
    ----CITATION----
        Nicholson, Joseph J.. The Blemmertons, or, Dottings by the Wayside .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7334
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Blemmertons, or, Dottings by the wayside 
            
               THE

OR,

DOTTINGS BY TIlE WAYSIDE.

BY

THE REVEREND JOSEPH J. NICHOLSON

Redeeming the time.

NEW YORK:

DANA AND COMPANY, 381, BROADWAY.
LONDON:
SAMPSON LOW, SON AND COMPANY.
1856.

j
F
F
{
f
r          f
i Y '
S  II
tl
i   A
'   W
}
fj
l
i
y   1
l
r
S
l

BLEMIY[ERTOJNS;


4

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856,
By DANA AND COMPANY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York.
R. C. VALENTINE,
STR OTYPER AND ELEOTROTYPIST,
1'/ Dutch-st., cor. Fulton,
NEw YoRK.

CONTENTS.

PAGE
CHAPTER I.-INTRODUCTORY.....................  ...........7
II.-Musings by the Way. An Incident. Reminiscen-
ces,...................................12
III.-Some of Life's Heart-aches. Mr. Ardent.' Making
a Mistake,.............................. 24
IV.-Mr. Lovegood on the Philosophy of Birds.
Sketches from Nature..... ................. 39
V.-A Splendid Ball at Mrs. Blemmerton's. Revela-
tions of Character.....................   52
VI.-A Further Insight into the Character of the Blem.
mertons. A Vestry-meeting. Obstinate People, 69
VII.-Mr. Lovegood; his Habits, and his Sanctum,.... 83
VIII.--A Curt Letter. A Fox-hunt ; Foxish People ; as
Cunning as a Fox,......................... 96
IX.--Mr. Blemmerton doing a Hard Thing. A Surprise,
that does not set well. Mr. Friendly,........110
X.-The Blemmertons in Trouble. Cogitation. The
Training of Children,.....................120
XI.-Mr. Lovegood's Early Troubles. The Communion
of  Saints,.................................  136
XII.-A Dash of Pretence. Parochial Troubles. Mr.
Lovegood's First Sermon in St.  's.........154
XIII.-The Grantners. Revelation. Family Trials,.... 170
XIV.-Old Aunt Judy's Death. The Colored Population
of the South, cared for by the Church,........182
XV.-Clerical Trials. Clerical Pleasures. The Sunday
School................................188
k,;

f
t
r
._
t

I'


Ai

CONTENTS.

5

4:

CONTENTS.
PAGE
XVI.-Political Hustings. Mr. Blemmerton before the
People. A Sickness worse than Sea-sickness,.. 200
XVII.-A Death-bed; and a Discovery,...............206
XVII.-Female Education. Christian Nurture,........213
XIX.-A Stomachic Character. A Decision on Sincerity.
A Sham Courtship,..............'.........222
XX.-Duck-Shooting. A Wild-Goose Chase, in which
Dr. Riproarer will play a Part,.............241
XXI.-Kite-flying. A Flash School...................250
XXII.-A Church School. Happy Girls. Pleasant Scenes, 260
XXIII.-Gossiping.  Pictures from Life.  How to get
Money for Church Purposes, from the Blem-
inertons,.................................. 268
XXIV.-A New Idea. A Case of Casuistry. Mr. Straggler,
the Missionary from the West.  Some Disclo-
sures,.................... ................  278
XXV.-Mr. Nochurch's Donation to Mr. Straggler. Mr.
Friendly's Ilospitalities. God's Providence illus-
trated. Mr. Straggler's Practical Conversation
with Mr. Blemmerton.......................,293
XXVI.-Showing Agnes's Progress at Mrs. Densmore's.
Something more about Mr. Ben Slocum, Dr.
Riproarer, and Dr. Skyrocket,..............309
XXVII.-A Discovery An Irish Row. A Moral of Charity, 318
XXVIII.-Mr. Jonathan Heartful again. A New Story. Mr.
Lovegood, and the Terrible Bursting of a Vol-
cano,....................................329
XXIX.-A Glance at Mr. Lovegood's Sermon on Dives and
Lazarus. One of its Results. A Ticklish Case
in the Nochurch Family. Rev. Mr. Hardworker
and his Inimitable Psalmody. Church Music.
Some Account of the Debt of Gratitude due by
the Church to Mr. Hardworker, for its Improve.
ment................................        7
XXX.-A Predicament. Mr. Slopill with sawdust in his

eyes. Gossiping. Mr. Lovegood married. A
Terrible Surprise. Smelling-bottles, etc.,..... 354
XXXL-Agnes Wallace at School and at Home. Mr.
Heartful. A Ride; a Courtship; and a Failure, 365
XXXII.-Jonathan Heartful in Congress. Affairs at the
Rectory, not so pleasant. Tattling, Jealous-
minded Young Ladies. A Letter from Congress,
etc.,....,... ......................... . . 372
XXXIII.-Agnes in her New Sphere. Parting. Mr. Love-
good's Opinion of the Case,................380
XXXIV.-Agnes in her New Employment. A Hint to Shop-
keepers, and Gentlemen and Ladies of the Yard-
stick, in general. A Denouement at the Rec-
tory,....-................................  389
XXXV.-Coming Events cast their Shadows before them,
Letter from Mr. Heartful. Revelations,...... 399
XXXVI.-A Case of Superstition, showing how Mr. Ben
Slocum became fully persuaded that he was to
become the Guardian of Agnes's Fortune. A
Scented Letter. Mr. Lovegood saying a Hard
Word,..................................405
XXXVII.-Closing Scenes. Parting Clouds. Merry Children, 412
XXXVIII.-Conclusion..............................416

ii

d

I


III
THE BLEM
DOTTINGS BY T
CHAPTI
INTRODU
YoU ask me for some lines
Wayside," of the many remr
tered in my heart.
I grant the request, and ye
for, my experience in life ha
transient, and shallow, to enal
for your entertainment. An
cause writing is my trade,-
lowed, but, in the present
hands, (in fact, if it must be t
nor are the brains, the pen, n
der, and I wish to improve
especially the formner)-I w~
writing is my trade,-my m
bread,-write, not that I expi
profit you ; but because I cai
"No thanks to you, then,"

MERTONS;
HE WAYSIDE.
ER I.
CTORY.
from my " Dottings by the
iniscences which lie clus-
t not without misgivings ;
s been far too superficial,
ale me to say aught, I fear,
d yet I write,-write, be-
a good trade when well fol-
instance, in very clumsy
old, the tools are not good,
for the ink, of the best or-
them all very much, but
rrite, then, I say, because
eat, my drink, my daily
ect to entertain, please, or
nnot help myself!
you say.


8      THE BLEMMERTONS; OR'

Nay, not the least ! I thank the printer for printing,
and you for reading. Only let this be premised. You
must perminit me to have my own way. You must not
attempt to cross nor to bias the bent of my mind ; but
you must let me go on just as I please ; enjoy my own
humor,-for, for many years, I have been my own
master,-indeed, I do not know that I was not self-willed
from the cradle.
You must permit me to be cheerful, or melancholy,
or witty, or religious, or philosophical, just as the vein
runs. I will not, cannot, be forever cramped up in the
small measure of dull sobriety ; I must away, at times,
like the playful zephyr, over hills and dales, scenting
the wild-flower, or listening to the singing-bird, nnn-
gling in the glee and poetry of life. And sometimes I
must be sentimental, perhaps never profound ; for I
write of various things, and various characters, from
man down to the animalcule,-and from the tiny plant,
up to the glorious sun, which gives it life, and paints its
flower with the blush and bloom  of beauty ! And
should you smile or grow sad, and wipe the tear-drop
from your eye, then it is not I that do it, but only my
simple story from the Book of Life.
" I assent to all this," you say,-" it is but reasona'-
ble."
Then listen to the
STORY OF THE BLEMMERTONS.
It was in the autumn of 18-, that I was introduced
to the Blemmertons. At that time they resided in the
city of      ,to which place a business engagement
led me. My business relations soon brought me in

DOTTING BY THlE WAYSIDE.              9
contact with what, in common parlance, is termed
"fashionable life." It was the season of gayety and
hilarity, and, as is customary at that season, balls, par-
ties, operas, lectures, concerts, etc., were at their flood.
I am older now, by some years; and yet I well remem-
ber the delight with which my breast thrilled, when I
received my first invitation to a fashionable entertain-
ment. I felt that my debut must be made with all the
characteristic embarrassment and awkwardness of a
young man, unacquainted with city ways, and who, for
the first time, was to make his appearance amidst the
fashion, luxury, brilliancy, and accomplishments of a
great city. And yet the prospect was a pleasant one.
It was quite an epoch in my history and experience. I
was to date from that event. Hereafter I was to be
something ;-hitherto all was a blank,-a long line of
nothingness.
Though not unused, in my native place, to the ways
and customs of the "best society," as it is technically
termed, I did not hide from myself the fact, that my
old-fashioned, obsolete,homely manners, would contrast
strangely, if not ludicrously, with the elegance and re-
finement to which I was about to be introduced. I was
not yet old enough to know, that life was made up of
contrasts, strange, wonderful, and, at times, quite over-
powering. The whole machinery of society, of life as
it is, is made up, held together, and worked, by nothing,
more nor less, than a grand set of contrasts,--one thing
laid, as it were, against another, giving it shade and
color, and, in turn, borrowing shade and color from it, and
then held out, the two combined, in bold relief, to give
the finishing touch to something else. And so contrast

l ;
'r.
i
r Y
I
4

A
i
i.


THE BLEMMERTONS; 01,

is seen by contact, as when the parting rays of the set-
ting sun linger behind, to play with the cloud which
hangs above the horizon, you behold, in the one picture,
the glories of light and the glories of darkness ! If
the figure appear involved and enigmatical, I have only
to say, I intended it to be so. But it has a meaning,
which, with your permission, will in due time come out.
I pause not for explanations. I write from shadows and
images in the heart, and the heart will understand them!
I felt, I say, as though my old-fashioned, homely
ways, would contrast strangely, if not ludicrously, with
the elegance and refinement to which I was about to
be introduced. It is ever so with those, at least, who
do not fancy that they are wiser than all the world be-
sides ; and who shrink from the fearful responsibility
of setting themselves up as paragons of perfection, or
as patterns for the imitation of their fellow-men. I had
a strange, horrid presentiment of failure, of mortifica-
tion, that oppressed my spirits, as a deadly incubus.
Four days did I labor to cast off this oppressive feeling,
but without success ; it was present to my thoughts,
waking and sleeping.
How could I meet the "lions," the beau-ideals of
fashion and elegant accomplishments, unmoved ? In
my silliness, I forgot that the heart, the mind, the intel-
lect, make the man ! What had I to do with such
meaningless things, as the mann-r of a bow, or of the
entrance into a room, or the conventional formalities of
an introduction ! Fie upon me, for such a folly ! I had
a big heart in my body, full of the kind and genial
warmth of life, and ready to run out to-heart wherever
met. What needed I more? I had a head, which, though

b

3'

young, was stored with gleanings from the Book of Life,
and from many written pages of the good and wise, that
had cost them years of intellectual labor. And I had a
tongue, that never stammered nor faltered, when it was
called into service. And yet I was frightened by a
folly!
I was younger then than I am now, and, consequent-
ly, did not possess so much of the "philosophy of life"
as I now do. This wretched feeling grew upon me. I
could not master it. As the time approached, my
timidity and apprehensions of rendering myself ridicu-
lous, increased with fourfold keenness. A fashionable
tailor was sought, and a rich suit, in the most approved
style, was ordered; next, the boot-maker was brought
into requisition, and a pair of "high-heels," of the best
"calf;" was ordered to my room; then came the pure
white French kids, the very ton of style,-and the ruf-
fled bosom, (for ruffles were fashionable at that day ;)-
and last, though not least, I paid the barber a visit, and
was nicked and trimmed in the most approved style,
(the moustache was not then the rage, as it is now,-had
it been, I should, undoubtedly, have been under the
painful necessity of borrowing or buying.) And yet it
would not all answer ! -The mirror told the story ! In
spite of every effort, I bore the marks of a gawky, coun-
try lout. I should be the butt of the house. A-lack-a-
day ! what snivelling, shrinking apes, pride makes
of us !

Ii
{ i
~ f

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

1I

10


ft1l

CHAPTER II.
MUSINGS BY THE WAY,--AN INCJDENT,-REMINISCENCES.
I EVER was of a contemplative turn of mind. Even
though mingling in scenes of festivity, running the
rounds of gayety and pleasure, I yet had periods, many
periods, of sober thoughtfulness: when the gay world
was shut out from my heart, and it mused on the mys-
teries of nature, or the depths of Divine wisdom and
goodness; or contemplated the striking contrasts be-
tween the conditions of men, the oppressions and hard-
ships of poverty, the heart-withering, blighting influ-
ences of wealth, with its accompaniments of voluptu-
ousness, prodigality, and misapplication of time and
means, given by a benevolent Father, for higher and
holier purposes.
It was the day before my anticipated introduction to
fashionable life, that, in one of my half-sad, half melan-
choly, contemplative moods, towards the setting in of
twilight, I emerged from my hotel, and leisurely saun-
tered down a crowded thoroughfare, scarcely knowing
or caring whither I went, or on what intent. In every
man's life there are strange turns, or turns that appear
to be strange, as he looks back upon them, which,
somehow or another, lead to events that leave their im-
press forever. And without the reasonable, comforta-
ble, Christian doctrine of an'overruling Providence,
causing all things, even the strange, unaccountable things

of life, to work together for good to them that seek
good, we should often be baffled by our life experience.
But, with this heavenly doctrine before him, the Chris-
tian has a key, which unlocks many events that would
otherwise appear mysterious.
I mean not to assert, that this clears, or solves the
mystery. Nay, not exactly that ; but it often enables us
to see the hand that rules and guides in the mystery;
and faith rests satisfied with this, aind dwells with rap-
ture on the thought that the Almighty governs,-not
only in "the whirlwind and the storm,"-but in many,
ah, how many ! of even of the apparently trifling inci-
dents of life, bringing to Himself honor and glory,
teaching us deep and abiding lessons in love, and train-
ing our hearts, or developing our character, for a wide
sphere of benevolence. And why should it be thought
a thing incredible, that the All-wise Father of Mercies
should, by some secret or hidden influence, direct our
steps unto chance opportunities, as they may be termed,
of doing good,-opportunities, that is, which we do not
'seek, but with which we, nevertheless, meet, as it were,
casually or accidentally ? I verily believe it, and cherish
the belief, as among the sweetest treasures of that faith,
which teaches me to go out of myself,-to fall down
before, and do lowly reverence to, Him who hath num-
bered the very hairs of my head !
Now, I had not pursued my walk far, before I found,
that I had threaded my path out of the crowd, into a
less-frequented, and more secluded street. Along this
I slowly wended my way, wrapped in my own medita-
tions, unobserved and unobserving. I rejoiced to be
free, at that calm, holy hour, from the noise, bustle, and

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

11

ii

I'
i

I

12

i0

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR

I

c
7
x
I


p

14

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

clamor, of a great city. For the first time since I I £1
entered it, I found myself alone. It was really a e-
freshment to my spirits. My heart ran out in gei jal
musings; my consciousness, my personal identity, ret: rn-
ed to me. Hitherto I had been in a whirl of con no-
tion and excitement, carried hither and thither by the
fluctuating tides of a new life ;-I was myself agai i. I
could think of home, and the dear ones whom Ii had
left behind. The everlasting whirl of that great city
went on as usual ; but, to me all was silent, silent as the
profound stillness of death ! I was alone with myself,
and with IIhm to whom my heart did homage
And yet I was not alone. There was one being be-
sides myself, who, unobserved by all save him who
counteth the pulsations of the heart, pursued her lonely
way along that deserted street. A lamp, which gave a
flickering light, enabled me, as I met her, (for we were
going in opposite directions,) to mark the traces of sor-
row in the awful gloom and melancholy, which, as a
dark cloud, rested on her countenance. 1 had met one
of the sorrowing of earth I It was enough. A chord
was touched that woke in my soul the music of heaven-
born charity and pity! I was just in that mbod to
which a tale of sorrow would bring a real balm. I was
in love with all mankind. My heart was sad, and full
of kindly sympathies, and gushed out towards that
lonely stranger.
There are moments of our existence, when our sym-
pathies are fuller of life than at others. There are few,
who are striving to strew flowers along life's pathway,
or to chase away the shadows of darkness from sorrow-
ing hearts, who will not avouch for this truth. There

if

DoTTINO  S BY THE WAYSIDE.            .V
are times, when we really love to come in contact with
sorrow,-not for the sufferer's sake,-nay, but for our
own. Since sorrow is the portion of man's cup, and all
must drink more or less deeply of it, as the dispensa-
tion of a wise and holy Father, we would not be alto-
gether segregated from it; we would come in contact
with it; we would strive to soothe it, to pour oil
upon it. It is not that we take pleasure in the wail of
human anguish. Nay, you will not understand me
thus. This would not be a Christian sentiment, but one
indicative of a heart-sickness, near akin to misanthropy.
I profess to be but. little versed in anthroposophy
and yet, methinks,. the full throbbing heart of hum ani-
ty, going out towards and throbbing for humanity, when
guided by that "still small voice" whose infant whis-
perings were heard first in the manger, will bear wit-
ness to the sentiment, that there are times peculiar, and
above all others, when we love to come in contact with
sorrow. We feel, that it is good for us. It draws us
nearer to heaven. It is a genuine cordial to the heart;
and we feel as though we could bless the Providence
that directed us to it! At least, such were my feelings.
As we passed each other beneath that flickering light,
a pensive, melancholy glance of sorrow pierced my heart.
No word was spoken ; no appeal to my charities or com-
miseration was made. She passed on. But, oh ! that
look of deep dejection, the silent language of a deeply-
wounded, if not broken heart, told its story,-a story,
that I could not, would not resist.
Now, with all my other failings, I am very impulsive.
Following the current of my feelings, I seldom pause
for reflection:; seldom pause f'or what philosophers term

III

F

I 1


THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

TI

" forethought,"-I mean of course in the common-place
charities of life,-but go at once out of myself, forget-
ting self and selfish things, right in pursuit of whatever
is in keeping with the dictates of my sympathetic f eel-
ings and impressions. And now I must know that tale
of sorrow. It was an impulse in the right direction. It
was a voice from God, speaking to my inner being.
Perhaps, had I thought of the proprieties of life, I
should not have accosted a lone young female, at such
a time and place. I should have passed on, heedless of
any other consideration than that of propriety ; so that
heaven-born charity would have been locked out of my
heart, (or rather in it,) and I should have passed on heed-
less of the sufferings of one too sensitive to appeal to
me, and yet too worthy to be left to unappeased sorrow.
And more: I should have gone down to the tomb,
without the blessed memory of a good deed which has
ever been to me as light in darkness, and which, doubt-
less, I shall carry with me into the eternal world,-a
source of joy throughout the ages of eternity !
Kind reader, did you ever perform a good act, a deed
of mercy, that for many days, many years, made your
heart laugh for joy; that stirred up its deep fountains,
ever and anon, as your memory recurred to that deed?
Then you can sympathize with me, in my fond feelings
of the past, as the memory of one glorious act coines up
before me, and I contemplate the many, many bless-
ings that have been invoked upon my head, through
the long intervening years. Aye, and may it not be,
that that good deed shall rise up and call me blessed, in
my Father's home, when the thread of life is snapped,
and I stand among the hosts who have passed the flood

of death? I say it not as boasting,-nay, nay, God
forbid. I speak it as a hope, as a faint foretaste of the
glorious revelations of memory in the world to come.
I speak it not as of merit,-nay, nay,-of merit there
is none, but in ONE. He merits all ;-He bestows all,
of free, unmerited grace. And yet, if that good deed
so blesses me while tabernacling in the flesh,-if it so
thrills my heart while seeing " through a glass darkly,"
and reading myself so imperfectly, I know, when the
shadows shall flee away, and I shall " know as also I am
known," that that good deed will wake my heart with
everlasting songs of joy, and fill my soul with gladness
throughout eternity.
Such is the necessary result of good actions. They
leave behind them happy, pleasant memories. Good
deeds carry with them their own reward ; and yet I
would not say that the reward is not of grace. It is of
grace, and yet it is a reward, if I may so speak,~spring-
ing out of the action itself. It is so, because it cannot
be otherwise. God hath so ordained,-it springs of
Him; it is a great law of His kingdom,-a great law of
a probationary state; and so it is of grace. Man, hav-
ing cut himself off from God, having lost his purity, no-
thing but grace could search him out and reinstate him
in God's favor; so that all is resolved into the overflow-
ings of the divine mercy in the Cross of Christ.
Man viewed as a probationer, as a rational being, is
obliged by a law d priori, antecedent to all other laws,
to do good, to obey God; and, therefore, there can, be
no merit in the sight of a Holy Being, who must meas-
ure all actions by the inflexible standard of justice. As
a general thing, men dwell not enough on such thoughts.

'{:

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

16


THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

19

3
6
t
I
Vjj
t
1

DOTTINGE BY THE WAYSIDE.

i
4

I

They are too prone to consider the Almighty as an ar-
bitrary dispenser of rewards and punishments ; forget-
ting, that He is a law unto Himself, and unto all things
emanating from  Him,* and that He governs and dis-
penses, by afixed law. Nothing can be more deroga-
tory to the divine goodness, than losing sight of this
fact. Goodness is so intrinsically good, that it is its own
reward: wickedness is so intrinsically evil, that it is its
own punishment. " Verily I say unto you, they have
their reward."
Whatsoever a man seeks, in that shall he find his
reward. If lie seek holiness, goodness, religion, alle-
giance with his Creator and Redeemer, he shall cer-
tainly find them and their reward, if lie seek aright and
with all his heart. If he seek vice, irreligion, unbelief,
he shall find them and be rewarded in them. In the
one case, the reward found will be eternal happiness;
in the other, eternal misery. lie cannot be rewarded
in that which he does not seek. As I have before
stated, man is a probationer, a rational being, and
therefore lie chooses freely; and, freely choosing evil,
he must meet the reward of evil. It springs naturally
out of itself, and yet it is none the less the reward of
the Divine justice, because, as in the other case,
it is a great law of His kingdom, and cannot be oth-
erwise.
Grace, through the incarnation and atonement of the
Son of God, intervenes, to give man reconciliation with
God; to pardon the demerit of even his best works; for
sin mingles with all man's doings, even the best of
* Archbishop Leighton-

{
1
i

them. Were it not so, that is, were it not for the GRACE
of the ATONEMENT, no man could be reinstated in God's
favor, or receive the rewards of free grace. Then it
necessarily follows, that if man will not have, or accept
of grace, (Faith is the hand which he must hold out to
receive,) to blot out his sins, to hide his imperfections,
the imperfections even of his best performances ; he
must be left to reap the fruits of his own way,-" For
whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap."
hence, then, for the man who would be happy in
the world to come, it is an abiding law, that he must
seek that happiness in this life, or he cannot have it
hereafter. For how could the impure, the unjust, the
unsanctified in heart, and life, and temper, be happy in
heaven? Its holy associations, the blaze of its eternal
day and glory, would confound them. Not a chord in
their hearts would beat in unison with the gladsome
symphonies of that Temple not made with hands. They
would meet nothing there ,congenial to their tastes or
inclinations; not one sentiment with which they could
sympathize ; and it is the law of rational intelligence,
fixed, universal, incontrovertible, that it can be happy
only in kindred association.
Take a man of really depraved and wicked disposi-
tions and habits, (I mean not some one of the weak ves-
sels of earth, who, though ever and anon turning aside,
here and there, from the right way, are yet struggling
at the foot of the cross, striving manfully to overcome
every weakness and every sin, and washing them out
through the atoning blood of Christ, in the tears of
penitence,)-but, one devoid of all holy aspirations, who
has steeled his heart and his conscience against every

18

i
f
f
{
p
t
I
1

}f
1
1
t
t
s
1
v
1
{
i

1 1
7


20

THE BLEMMERTONS OR,

fear of a judgment to come, and every emotion of love
and gratitude to his heavenly Father. Take such a
one, I say, from the scenes, employment, and associa-
tions in which he has sought his happiness, and place
him in the company of the sanctified, where every word
that he hears will utter to him an awful reproach. Let
him hear but the language of saintliness, the music of
the heavenly harpings, and I ask, can he be happy?
Will not every word, every note that falls upon his ear,
be as a scorpion lash,-every sound, hateful to his heart
and ears,-and will he not cry out, in his misery, for
some strong arm to snatch him from his own condem-
nations; or some dark cloud, if possible, to hide him
from himself?
But I intend not to run into the depths of theology.
I have said so much, to clear up a former remark ; and
to show my feelings and impressions, as I dwell on the
recollection of a good deed. I lay no claim to merit,-
nay, perish the thought !-and yet that deed has ever
blessed me, ever been as a very pleasant line in the
checkered history of my life, as year by year has writ-
ten that history up; and if it is so gracious a cordial
to my heart now,-so pleasant and thrilling a remiis-
cence,-much more will it be so in the world to come,
when all shall be light, and no shadow shall intervene
between me and the past !
That silent appeal of sorrow! That lone girl, the
picture of unutterable grief! Was she not one of the
"wounded and bruised" by the wayside, left "half
dead," whose tale of anguish appealed to the passer-by,
for the kindly offices of the good Samaritan? iow

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

21

many, perchance, like the Priest or the Levite, had
passed by " on the other side," or had come and looked
upon the scene of wretchedness, yet hurried away with-
out so much as a loving word ! Ah, I know not, and
yet, alas ! it is a common case. In a crowded city,
poverty, suffering, misery, leave their deep, abiding
traces in many hearts which are revealed in the hag-
gard, care-worn countenance, in the stinted garments,
tottering steps, shrivelled, feeble, and skeleton.like bod-
ies. And men grow accustomed to such sights; their
hearts grow callous by familiarity. Ah, it is a sad,
dreary picture; but true, alas! too true. We appeal to
the great experience of life. Go back, reader, to the
days of your youth, and tell me what were your im-
pressions, when first you read in the sacred page the
story of the sufferings and magnanimity of a Joseph.
Did not your heart recoil from the wicked deed of his
brethren, when they thrust him into the pit, or sold him
to the stranger, to be taken far away from his loved and
loving home? And did it not bleed with that aged
Patriarch, when the iron went into his soul, and he
wrapped himself in gloom, the mourning of a crushed
heart, to go down to the grave sorrowing unto his be-
loved son?
But pass on, pass on,--for the scene changes. Did
not your heart swell and throb, when you beheld those
cruel brethren, years after, compelled by hard neces-
sity to stand in the presence of that injured brother,
strangers in a strange land,-and lo, when the curtain
is drawn and all is explained, that brother stands
forth revealed, and the providence of the Almighty is
brought distinctly out. I ask, did not the emotions of

it

t
f
t
t
t
p
e
i

I


i

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

your heart find vent, and run out in generous tears,
when you heard those touching and thrilling words,
"I am Joseph,-doth my FATHER yet live ?" Now,
why did you find such thrilling delight in this story,
but that it spoke to the fountains of your inner being,
ere yet they were dried up,-but that it appealed to
your generous sympathies, ere they were at all warped,
or blighted, by intimate contact with the world?,
And go yet further ; take up some line from your
own youthful observation. In younger days, ere the
heart was hardened, or rendered callous, ere theomarks
of many sorrows, many disappointments, or many
rebellions against its pleadings, had scarred it over, dd
you ever witness pain or anguish, without experiencing
the up-risings of sympathy and commiseration ? Nay,
never, never! For hours, you have followed the men-
dicant on his lowly pilgrimage, from door to door, ask-
ing alms, to satisfy the cravings of his nature. For
hours, you would stand and gaze upon the blind beggar,
as he sat by the wayside, and stretched out his gaunt
fingers for the mite of charity. And how has your
heart bled, when one by one the throng passed on,
heedless of that outstretched arm, and the appeal from
those sightless eyes ! And at last, when some good
Samaritan passed that way, and that arm was heeded,
and the deed of love wasdone, as the tears of joy and
gratitude streamed from those sightless eyes, you could
bear no more, but mingled your tears with his, and
went on your way with a lighter heart. And how you
envied that good Samaritan his deed of love! Oh that
you had but the ability, and how many tears of grati-
tude would follow you through life!

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

23

Ai, reader, you were young then. Your heart was
simple as the heart' of the weaned child. How is it
now? Alas! alas! those thrilling sensations are gone.
They lie buried with the past; they are overgrown by
the cares of the world, the deceitfulness of things tran-
sient as the morning cloud. The story of Joseph no
longer brings its melting rapture. The wayside beg-
gar, the blind, the needy, the helpless, no longer draw
so strongly or largely upon your sympathies, or wring
out your heart in tears. Nay, nay, you have grown
familiar with such scenes: you have stifled those godly
emotions: you have gone out into the world, taken
hold upon its interests, or laid your heart upon its altar,
until it has robbed you of your youthful sympathies.- If
I have drawn a faithful picture of your life, I pray you
make haste to efface some portions of it. Make haste
to become again a little child of gushing sympathies
and love; for, of such, we are told, ".is the kingdom of
heaven !"

22

'Jul


24      THE BLEMMERToNs; OR

CHAPTER III.
SOME OF LIFEI sInEART-ACHES,-MR. ARDENT-MAKING A
ThSTA1E. .
KIND reader, did you ever enter the abode of wretch-
edness, of heart-rending poverty, with its attendant suf-
ferinogs and afflictions ? If not, you have yet much to
learn; your heart is not yet schooled for a world-wide
sphere of charity. Perhaps, such a scene would not be
congenial to your taste ; and yet, I opine, it will be a
blessing to you. Life is but half realized while we see
only its bright side. The picture must be shaded
properly, to give it due effect. Every well-trained
artist is aware of this ; and in its due appreciation and
management, he adds the finishing touch to his paint-
inig, and acquires the title of mater. It is ever so
with our life-experience. There must be the shading,
to give us a, full impression. We need the dark side,
to enable us to see the bright to advantage. And these
are the contrasts, of which we spoke in a former chap-
ter. We need to see, yea, and to feel, when our FATIIER
sees it good for us, some of the blightings and sorrows
of life, to enable us to appreciate its " pleasant lines,"
and gain some glimpses of the debt which we owe our
Father for Iris mercies.I
Go with me, then. That little girl whom I met, and
whom we saw by the lamp-light, shall conduct us. We

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.              25
move on, street by street, up this lone, filthy alley, and
down that, passing the dim-burning lamps, threading
our way we know not whither. But we may follow
our guide. Her weary feet have trudged over the
same desolate way, carrying her aching heart and
throbbing temples,-ah, how many times !-to the
same home of wretchedness, with the sad reproach, on
a heartless world, of the neglect of the claims of char-
ity. . . . And at last we are at our destination.
This is the house.
We pause, and look upon it. "It is a wretched
abode," you say. It is November; the night is chill;
the hoar-frost is gathering thick on the remnant of
living vegetation; the stream in the gutter is icing
over ; the hoarse winds sigh through the broken panes.
We ascend a rickety stairway, which runs up outside,
at the gable; and we enter. There is no light, except
from a few coals on the hearth. But we hear deep,
heavy breathings,-the moanings of death! There,
alone, on a miserable pallet of straw, scantily covered
with a few tattered fragments of clothing, lies a wreck
of disease and suffering, breathing out his life. Soon
must the soul wing its way to its God! There is no
loving life-partner, to bathe those aching temples, or
wipe off the death-damps; for, disease, too, has now
laid its hand on her who would gladly have performed
the last sad offices of affection. Long and anxious
watchings, and the deeper trials of extreme poverty,
have done their work. But, the deep-drawn sigh which
falls upon the ear from the adjoining room, tells, that
there is more than disease crushing that heart, or prey-
ing upon those -vitals ! There is a blight there, deeper

;ii
Ii'

3
a
i
r
t
'{
{
t
}
i
s


26      THE BLEMMtERTONs; oR,

far than that made by the icy hand of death; that sigh
tells of the sorrows of a broken heart!
These three,-husband, wife, and daughter,-were
the sole tenants of that upper room. And their story
is soon told,-alas ! it is but too common. Five years
ago they were a contented, happy, and prosperous
family. William Wallace (as I had the story from his
dying lips) was a respectable mechanic in the employ-
ment of Mr. Blemmerton, a wealthy manufacturer. On
a cold night in December, five years before, a fire had
broken out in Mr. Blemmerton's premises, and Wallace,
hearing the alarm, at the dead hour of night, rushed
to the scene of the conflagration, and exerted every
nerve to save the property. Through fire and smoke
he toiled, even rushing into the very flames, until the
fire was subdued.
But little comparative damage ensued ; the mass of
the property was saved. But Wallace never recovered
from his almost superhuman exertions. He became a
prey to consumption; and for five years had his life
dwindled away, until now his hour had come ! And
oh ! what an hour, under the most favorable circumn-
stances !-but how peculiarly awful to him, reduced as
he was to extreme poverty, his heart twining about his
widowed wife and his orphan daughter, in their pitia-
ble condition ! Ah, could some of the more favored of
earth have heard that history, gazed upon that picture,
would they not have been moved to pity and relieve?
It is a picture around them every day, in crowded
cities, but, alas ! they will not see it ! It meets them
at almost every step, but they shun it, pass by on the
other side, or ifperchance they approach and look -upon

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.              27
it, they lock their hearts against it! "Just and true
art Thou in all Thy ways, Thou King of Saints." The
poor, the afflicted, shall not always be forgotten.
Want of proper food and nourishment had evidently
shortened Wallace's days; and his wife, worn out with
hunger and wretchedness, must soon follow him, unless
timely relief be extended. "And this poor child,"
said the dying father, "my beloved Agnes, my only
child, she has been all my support; she has worked,
toiled through the day, and begged a pittance, at night,
from the shopkeepers, with whom we used to deal when
our circumstances were better, and so has kept us alive.
But ah me, they are growing weary of her applications
for charity; and the poor child knows not how to beg
of strangers. Ah, Sir, though in humble life, we
guarded our darling child, as long as we could, from
the rough contact of the world. She is a simple-minded,
guileless thing, too sensitive to go out on a mission, that
oftener meets the cold frown of the world, than the
cheering smile of loving sympathy. And now, poor
child, she is to be alone,-alone in the world. Ah me !
ah me ! My heart,-my poor breaking heart! But
she will be better off; she will have one less to care
and provide for,-one less to watch, one less to beg for!
"Come near me, my child, my only child ! 0 sweet
title of the parental relationship !-come near me, my
child. Your father is going, at last! Let me look
upon you, once more. God Almighty bless you, my
dear, dutiful daughter ! The God of the FATHERLESS
raise you up friends, and protect you, in a cold and
heartless world,! It is all your dying father can give
you,-his blessing ! Even now, the scanty furniture,

t
i
i
3  }
t
1
f
i
4
i
s
1
(~
t
}
i
t
t
{f
{ i
}
i
4
t
t
It
f
i
i
3 i
1
'   3
1  i
j
I.  b


p

28

THE BLEMMERTONs; ORS

a,
r
{
s'  yy    3
j    3
IEEE
t    }
i
i
. I
Hi
t 1
r 3j
i
1
t        t
t
l    i   jJt
rI!! 9
a
I
r    t      n
{
i q
1 i
1 }
i
J
{
1 i
1
i
fj([[    3
1        { S
f
yt
i
j
}       r
f
++i

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

29

the remnant of what we once had, even the pallet on
which my dying body lies, in four days will be taken
from you, and sold to pay my debt! Ah! my heart,
my heart! Lay your head upon my heart, my daugh-
ter. There,-so !"--and he pressed her to his bosom.
"1There, Sir," said he, "read that," holding out a
paper,-4--a written notice to quit the premises by a cer-
tain day. Hurriedly moving my eye over the lines,
what was my consternation when I found that it bore
the signature of John Blemmerton !-Blemmerton, in
whose service that dying man had spent his best days !-
Blemmerton, whose property had been saved, at the
sacrifice of that dying man's life !-Blemmerton, whose
halls the next evening were to ring with the merry
laugh, while the widow and the fatherless, whom he
should have succored and protected, should be crushed
and blighted in the heart, by his cruel inhumanity and
injustice!
But even the worst is not yet told ; for, there was an
execution, in the hands of an officer, on every article of
furniture or property of any kind in that house, all of
which was to be taken, and in four days sold for rent !
The debt was about thirty dollars ; and this, all the
worldly goods in the dying man's possession would not
liquidate. This troubled him. He named not the injus-
tice, the cruelty of his old employer and landlord,-I-
know not that such a thought crossed his mind; but
he was evidently pained, that he should not leave
behind him enough even to pay that debt. He had,
however, one consolation: "KMy sweet Agnes," said he,
"has promised, if ever she is able, to pay the last penny."
"God only is great." You rise up and exclaim,

I1

Peace, peace, troubled man; thy last moments shall be
lighted up with joy. Pass on into the "valley of the
shadow of death," leaning on the "staff," and protected
by the "rod," of Immanuel. The widow    and thy
fatherless shall be cared for. This hour dates a new era
in their chequered life. God hath raised up the Good
Samaritan. "The Lord defendeth the fatherless and
widow: as for the way of the ungodly, He turneth it
upside down."  Ps. 146 : 9. "Leave thy fatherless
children, I will. preserve them alive ; and let thy
widows trust in ME."  Jer. 49 : 11. "Man goeth to
his long home, and the mourners go about the streets,"
Ece. 12 : 5; but that trembling spirit departs in peace.
Long has been the struggle, dark has been the way, but
there is light at the last.
" Man is born unto trouble, as the sparks fly upward."
Job 5 : 7. Without intending to write a line on the
question of slavery, pro or con., we feel at liberty to
say, that we have little faith in that noisy philanthropy,
which is ever busy in making "red flannel shirts for
the little negroes in Africa," while it gives the " cold
shoulder," as they say in Yankeedom, to the cries of
poverty and distress around it. Place a Southern colored
man in one of your pent-up factories, or scorch him
over your hot, smoking furnaces, in the dank, dark
room, from seven in the morning to' six o'clock in the
evening, and he would soon die, or sing, "Carry me
back to old Virginny." Ah! talk as you please about
these questions, from the fall of man you may trace
onward the stream of time, and everywhere you will
behold that sentence written, "Man is born unto trouble,
as the sparks fly upward."


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

(5   ;  1    i
1 i
S
i
Y
3 t
t i
i
i
eI
i
1}          i
h
1i          3
5
1          j
a      1
i      a
{ 1
{
f
}
f
t
S
i
11
i
a

We find no fault with those who are striving, in the
spirit of the true self-denial of the Gospel, to ameliorate
his condition, under whatever circumstances. Let self
be cast into the shade, and to all efforts for man's good,
in whatever condition, that will bear the tests of trute
charity,-the tests of her true weights when placed in
her scale,-(for, charity measures all questions, in all
their bearings, proximate or remote, and is not content
with less than a perfect eguilibrieun,) we are willing to
give God speed.
But, man is a one-sided creature the world over. lie
has but one pair of spectacles ; and they rarely enable
him to see in more directions than one. It would be a
blessed thing, if some of the one-sighted philanthropists
of this philanthropic age would have their spectacles
fitted with glasses looking in different directions,-one
glass to see that picture, the other to look upon this.
We opine, that they would have a more extended
vision, and would bless us for the suggestion. We have
ourselves seen some sights, and taken some notes,
through a pair of these double-glassed spectacles. For
instance, we have seen white men, by scores and hun-
dreds, when the thermometer, in the shade, stood at
98° Fahrenheit, toiling before the melting furnace, the
great sweat-drops rolling down their begrimed faces,-
yea, by scores dropping dead at their posts, from the
heat, and this from seven in the morning till six in the
evening,-no pure air,-the hot breath of the molten
iron,-the red glare of the furnace,-no intermission but
for dinner, a brief honr,-smut and smoke, and toil and
sweat,-no recreation from day to day,-no Saturday's
holiday,-no one to provide a physician, or to care for

the helpless family, when sickness comes,-no wages
accruing while disease preys upon the vitals ; and if
poverty or death ensue, no friendly hand to pro-
vide for the widow and the fatherless. No work, no
pay.
Go out, ye helpless ones, to beg and be scoffed at, or
go to the Alnshouse, to conceal your poverty from the
public eye. It will not answerfor youto appear on the
streets, among the living mass of useful men. There is
no pity for you. The world is run mad with philan-
thropy. Its words are large and swelling; but, alas !
you will find, that it requires more than words to clothe
the body and feed the stomach ! And those frail young
girls in the factory, pent up amidst the everlasting ding-
dong of the machinery ; no merry laugh or gleeful
song, but work, work,-haste, haste,-shuttle, scuttle,
helter, skelter, ding, dell, hurry, scurry, heat and dust,
tainted air and tainted breath,-so they go from morn
till night,-never stopping, always pressing,-limbs
quivering, hearts bleeding: or others, in the garret,
bending over the needle, before the dim-burning lamp,
at the hour ' of midnight,-gaunt bodies,-slender
fingers, aching temples,-poor pay,-scanty subsist-
ence,-slender pittance,-work, work, work,-toil on,
sweat on,-breathe on, ye toiling ones ! God sees and
marks. There is a brighter world, a fairer clime.
Trust in HIM. He counts the throbbings of your hearts.
May He touch the hearts of wealthy philanthropists,-
give them bowels of compassion,-to spend less on
their pampered lusts in fir n furniture, extravagant
living, to talk less, and do more, to afford you greater
independence, and lift you from your slavery,-the

30

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR I

31

I


1
-f ,
'1
I       ,
; ,
y      i
#      I#
1
f      i}{
l       }
fi ,
;
E}
i
;
.r
I
,
,
,
ij

THE BLE+MMERTONs; OR,

slavery of injustice, the slavery of the lowest pittance,
the grinding poverty of meagre wages !
Ah! we have seen sights, even in the great metrop-
olis of this happy land. Looking from our room win-
dow in our hotel, which opened on bricks on all sides,
during the extreme heat of the past summer, (which
was so intense, that, during a walk of two squares on
Broadway, we saw as many as four horses fall in the
streets, panting for life,) at the early dawn, ere yet the
full glare of day had broken upon this mass of bricks
and living creatures, we witnessed a scene never to be
effaced from our memory. My window opened on a
vacant space, a court about ten feet square ; on either
side, rose the brick walls, full four stories high; at the
bottom, were scattered, here and there, fragments of
broken bottles, and old lumber and rags, among which
a lone rat, at that early hour, rummaged for his scant
supply of food. We pitied the poor rat, when we
beheld his slim prospect of his morning's meal. Musing
on him and his fate, we had lost sight of a frail tene-
ment which occupied the centre of the court. The rat,
suddenly pricking up his ears, and running for his hole,
called'our attention to other objects.
In the centre of the court, there was a sort of cabin
or glass-house, a mere frame-work, somewhat after.the
plan of the frame-work of a hot-bed, filled with glass on
the sides and glass over head, to admit freely the rays
of light, and constructed with doors on either side to
admit the air which might steal over the towering roof,
and find its way down to that dark, pent-up place. As
the rat fled, a door opened, and two human beings took
their seats in their glass-house, far down below me, and

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

33

commenced plying their needles with marked industry.
"They that live in glass-houses - should not throw
stones," especially they who work in them should not ;
for should they break a pane, it would cost more than
a day's work, and give them many pains in return.
But we can throw a stone for them, which, we trust,
will be as true as was David's, from his sling at the
champion Goliath, of Gath,-not, indeed, to kill men,
but to kill their selfs/hness, their pretensions,-kill
wanting, hypocritical philanthropy,-demolish these
glass-houses, open the eyes of the blind, (who yet say
they see,) to the wants of man as they really are, and
to the great bleeding heart of humanity.
Now, follow out these two beings from their glass-
house,-take that living mass from the factory and the
blazing furnace, and view their condition in a religious
aspect. Where do you find them on the Lord's day?
Do you behold them in groups and crowds, hurrying
to the sanctuary to offer up the earliest and latest
prayer to Him from whom all good things do come?
Nay; scarcely a moiety of that vast number are striving
for a better world ; scarcely a moiety of them have any
sense of religion. The church-bell has no music for
the ears of the majority ; indeed, over them, it is to be
feared, infidelity rules and reigns. And the reason is,
they are not cared for! We are reciting facts,-facts
of which we are cognizant. Infidelity, Deism, prevails
fearfully among this class of the citizens of this great
Republic. We have met with men who were frank
enough to tell us, that from long confinement to their
peculiar employments, neglect of the sanctuary, and
want of intercourse with their fellow-men, and the

32

f
I yy
p1
f
r,
I
i
C
l
a
i
r
t

i
ii


i
t
t
pi     ,3
a
i       }
F
C
V}
k      T
2      t

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR?

'i

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.

35

sympathies springing out of it, they had not only grown
misanthropic, but had actually learned to hate the
sound of the church-bell,-to hate the very word
Religion! And they have accounted to me for it, in
this way: Their employment is monotonous ; they
have nothing to exercise the mind, to keep it active, in
things good and elevating. And yet the mind will be
employed. They grow meditative, are wrapped up in
their own thoughts ; the everlasting whirl and the
racket of the machinery drive them, as it were, into
themselves. They see that they are little cared for;
they grow melancholy, and nurse their morbid feelings,
until finally they yield themselves up to the temptations
of the evil one, and become hardened in open, avowed
infidelity ! And especially is this apt to be the case
with foreigners.
We have frequently met with individuals from Eng-
land, who had been reared up, we may say, at the al-
tars of her noble and glorious Church, but who, on
removing to this country, soon fell into the meshes of
infidelity, or some of the ruinous vagaries or heresies
for which this country is so famous. And the reason is
this : They miss here the care and the sympathy to which
they have been accustomed. The Church of England
provides and cares for all classes of her children, on a
much more extensive and systematic scale than we do,
as we are ashamed to confess. And it is a great re-
proach on the Church, that in all our cities there
are not more churches, free for the use of all such,
whether foreign or native, and more pastors to care for
them, search them out, give them the right hand of
sympathy and brotherly love, throw around them the

34

Iastoratl arm, to make them feel happy and at home!
The -PAsTous will not be wanting; the CnuRdH's heart
is big enough, and full enough of yearning ; but, alas!
her yearnings are stifled, her heart is crushed, because
her CHILDREN withhold from the Lord more than is con-
venient ; devote their means to all the vanities of life;
and so "rob God," while His children cry unto Him
and them for the bread of life and the waters of salva-
tion !
And we all know, who take any interest in the race
of Adam, that when men, in whatever class, lose a
sense of religion, with it they lose all reverence for sa-
ered things. Hence, if you would find, on the Lord's
day, that mass of men to whom we have pointed, you
must not seek them at God's sanctuary. But turn to
the tavern, or tippling-shop, the steamboat or railroad
excursion, the woods, or water, and you will see how
that holy day is spent. No sound of praise or prayer,
from them, makes glad the courts of heaven ; but, more
likely, blasphemy, drunkenness, revellings, fights,
brawls,-the open gateway to eternal ruin, the dram-
shop, dealing out its deadly poison,-these are the
sights which make angels veil their faces, and these the
sounds that pierce the blue vaults of heaven, and carry
their tale of woe up to the throne of God!
Now, we insist upon it, that these things are so, in a
great measure, because, with all the boasted philan-
thropy of this age, truae charity does not walk visibly
before us, enough ! High-sounding words, pleasant-
reading books, answer very well in their place ; but we
want a little more of the spirit thrown in, in the right way,
like that which once, in one crashing voice, rang out on

a.


I
r'
{ fI
4II

THE 3LEMMERToNs; OR,

the still air, "Let us fight Philip !" We must go to
work, and do. You are ready, you say, for your part.
Well, we want to build a free church in  street, to
seat six hundred persons. It will cost ten thousand dol-
lars; and then we want twelve hundred dollars per an-
num, to feed and clothe a pastor to look after the flock.
It is a glorious enterprise. The angels look out from
heaven and smile upon it. Christ from His throne holds
out an immortal crown, for every head who shall honor
Him in this or any other work! "Oh, how glad I shall
be, to have a share in that work ! It is a glorious work!
And heaven-born Charity, unveiled, walks in our midst,
seeking where she may bestow her favors ! Oh, do let
me take a part with you! It will be so pleasant, so
delightful! We shall only have to make known our
wants, and the means will be instantly supplied !" Go
on, enthusiastic youth! May be, when your beard has
grown you will have learned wisdom.
Now watch him! "Let's see," says he, " on whom
shall I call first ?" Ah, lucky thought ! There is Mr.
A., an enthusiastic admirer of " Uncle Tom's Cabin,"-
a great friend of humanity; a great philanthropist !
"Well, I'll put him down for five hundred dollars."'
"Young man, you had better be certain first !"
Well, he calls at Mr. A..'s counting-room. " Is Mr.
A. in ?"  "Yes."  And turning your eyes up, you see
him at his desk, casting up accounts, or counting his
money, or reading the money article in the morning's
paper. He hands him his subscription-book! Mr. A.
opens .it, gives it one eye, while he gives the other to his
occupation! "Free church, Sir !-free church! The
thing is impracticable! It won't pay; can't be sus-

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

37

tained! If you build it, a Pastor can't be sustained!
There are more-churches here now than can be support-
ed !" "But, Mr. A., the poor must be cared for !"
" Yes, Sir, it is true ; but I have given every dollar I
can afford ! It is my duty, first to sustain the churches
already in existence. There are St. J.'s, and St. P.'s,
and St. A.'s; these congregations all are poor, and I
do'maintain, that we should strengthen them, before
we engage in any thing new ! Besides, there is the
great Kossuth fund,-I have just given that one thou-
sand dollars; and then, I have subscribed fifty dollars
to Mr. Drinkwater's Temperance Lectures; and did
you not see, that I am a large contributor to the
'Uncle Tom Cabin' fund,-all, Sir, for the cause of hu-
manity !"
"But, Mr. A., all this does not build the house of the
Lord." "I know that, Sir; but, Sir, humanity,-hu-
manity, I say,-is a great cause!"
Now, my young friend, you may give the case up
there ! Go, visit Mrs. A. And neither will she have
any thing to give. Mr. A. holds the-purse-strings. All
that she can do is to get money enough to buy new fur-
niture. "Why, just think, Sir, that mirror which shows
your person to such an advantage, only cost two thou-
sand dollars! Was it not cheap ?" And then it will
take at least two hundred dollars to buy the Misses A.
tickets to the celebrated Messrs. Humbug, Moneycatch-
em &amp; Co.'s Lectures on-NoTHING! And then there
are- the grand concerts,--it is unfashlionable not to
patronize them. That involves five hundred more!
And then come the balls and parties; Mrs. A. must
give at least two parties this winter. All these items

36

i
r
F
F
f


ii.
1ii   i

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

will involve at least two or three thousand more ! Build
a free church, eh? No, Sir, there is not money enough.
The people are too poor. There is money enough for
every thing else, but to support and sustain the Gospel!
And there is enough for that, if only men had heart
enough to see, that God will bring them into judgment
for the misuse of their talents!

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

39

CHAPTER IV.

MR. LOVEGOOD ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF BIRDS.
FROM NATURE.

SKETCHES

WE think it best, at this stage of our sketch, to intro-
duce our Pastor to the reader. "Your Pastor? what
has he to do with your sketch ?" "We shall see," we
answer. We are writing life experiences, and life very
often runs in crooked streams. He who writes from
the lines of life, must often diverge from the straight
line of the ordinary story-teller. If there appears no
connection here, it will be seen hereafter. Let that
suffice to quiet all murmurings.
Our Pastor was, a very practical man,-a man of
great learning and experience,-one of your close-
thinking men, who, in his public ministrations and
private intercourse with his flock, made every event in
life, and every phenomenon in nature, in some way
subservient to his work. No other man that ever I
saw, was so complete a master -of the hearts of the
young; or understood so well how to interest them, or
to gain their affections! And this, because he had so
happy a facility in conversing with them, on those
commonplace topics which they best understood. He
had evidently been a boy himself; for, he understood
all about the making and flying of a kite, a game of
ball or marbles, as well as any boy in Christendom.
And it was really a treat, to get him interested in con-

38

I1   1111


R    i
SiI~

40         THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,
versation, on any of the pastimes of his younger days.
Apart from the pleasure he afforded, he always instruct-
ed,-always pointed out some new beauty, some new
lesson of wisdom, even in those things which we
thought we were thorough masters of.
Well do I remember a visit he paid to the village
school, and the interesting sketch that he .gave us, at
the request of the tutor, on the Philosophy of Birds.
" When I was a boy," said Mr. Lovegood, "I spent
many days, rambling over the fields, and nursing the
little ducks and chickens ; employments which delight-
ed me when a youth. Many, many hours did I spend,
in the pleasant task of watching and noting the devel-
opments of the wonderful instincts of the poultry-yard.
It is not strange, then, boys, that this pleasant spring
day should bring to light some lines, long obscured on
the table of my memory, of the peculiar traits of that
wise little folk, the birds and domestic fowls, which I
treasured up when a boy. This bright sunny day, and.
the sparkling eyes and smiling faces around me, carry
me back to the days of my youth! Man is a strange-.
compound, and a wonderful!    And it may seem
strange to you, a waste of time, if not absolutely non-
sensical, to talk about the Philosophy of Birds I"
"Philosophy of Birds !" we all exclaimed. "Who
ever heard of such a thing !"  " That, boys, is precise-
ly what I wish to do, -talk about something of which
you have never heard, - something of which you
know, perhaps, nothing." "But, Mr. Lovegood, you
say Philosophy of Birds."  "Just so: Philosophy.
What's in a word? I care not a fig about it, mi the
present instance. Words are mighty things, indeed !

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.              41
But, in the present case, I care not for the word; call
it instinct, if you prefer it. I prefer the word I use,-=
Philosophy. And I maintain, against you and the rest
of the world, that birds are philosophers. They have a
language, too !"
" What! birds have a language ?"  "Yes! birds.
It is true, we do not understand it. Perhaps, that is a
boon yet in store for us, in this progressive age! You
smile at this, as well you may; but there are men
silly enough to undertake any thing! The barbarians
of our own race, have a language which we do not
understand; but our not understanding does not prove
that they have no language ; neither does our ignorance
of ornithological dialect, prove that birds have not a
language. They have not our language, but they have
one of their own. If we do not understand it, it is our
infelicity. And it should humble us, when we reflect,
that there is something under the sun which we do not
understand ! Stranger ideas than this that I have
started, have passed current in the world.
" In the olden time, there was a system in ornitho-
mancy,-divination by the flight and other acts of birds.
Some remarkable stories of such things are told in the
old classic authors, which some of these days you may
read. Great events have turned upon the flight of a
flock of ravens, or vultures! And even at this day,
you know, some of the simple-minded country people
tremble, if an unlucky crow wing his flight across their
pathway! Two crows make a better omen, but three
a very bad one. The shrill cry, nocturnus ululatus, of
the Night-raven (Nycticorax) is heard with dread, as
foreboding some dire calamity! And so the wakeful

a
t
1
4
S
i
t
7
t
f
3
{
f
t y
1
d
3
7
A
''
I    1
I 1
i ;
3
}
J
i
i
i
r
t
i
t
f
F
R
I
f       7
1
k
i
'
i
i
j
l


;.
_  ;
i
1
,
1
1
I

T-IE BI4EMMERTONS; OR,

notes of the Whip-poor-will, at nightfall, especially if
lie take his position in the yard or near the house,
bring to the inmates of that house the omen of death
But, I assure you, that I have often heard the shrill cry
of the Night-raven, and the melancholy note of the
Whip-poor-will, without terror, or ensuing death, or
calamity ! And yet I believe that birds are philoso-
pliers, and very wise ones in their way ; that they have
a language, and understand each other, at least those of
the same gengs.
"When a boy, I was not unobservant of such small
matters; and now that I am a man, and the frosts of
age are settling on my brow, I look upon them with
reverence, if not awe ! Then they afforded me pleas-
ure; they now afford me food for reflection, teach me
deep lessons of love and humility, and lift my thoughts
and my heart up to that Great Being 'who feedeth the
young ravens that cry unto Him,' and who, through the
instincts of -brutes, and beasts, and fowls of the air,
teacheth man wisdom!
"1When young, I had a peculiar penchant for crows,
i. e., a longing for them! It was a strange fancy. But
boys will be boys, and every boy will have his own
idiosyncrasy. I had mine. It was a hankering after
crows ! But, if the truth must be told, there was a
twofold reason for this singular fancy of mine. In the
first place, crows are very troublesome little fellows,
you know, boys. They will steal eggs and young
chickens, and pluck the shoots of .corn, for the parent
grain, as they spring out of the earth. So, my father
proclaimed a war of extermination against the crow
tribe. Consequently, in the second place, every dead

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

43

crow was a sixpence in my pocket! Marvellous things!
'Money is the root of all evil!' It certainly was the
root of my fondness for crows ! And, notwithstanding
the ornithomancy of the ancients, and the superstition
of the ignorant, it certainly was a lucky thing for me,
and a very unlucky one for any crow whose flight lay
across my pathway, within gun-shot, (I was a remark-
able shot 'on the wing,')-for to him it was certain
death, to me it was as good as a sixpence !"
"But you tell me, crows are not philosophers."
" Then, boys, answer me this: How is it, that I could
approach one of these sable, glossy little fellows almost
as near as I pleased, if only Ihad no gun in my hand -
but, when I had that deadly weapon, I could rarely get
within gun-shot of one ?" "True ! true !" we all
exclaimed. " True to the life !" "They cared not for
me, but they did for the gun."  "They smelt powder,"
exclaimed the boys. "That is it,-they don't like
powder !"
"I could walk through the fields with a tobacco-
stick, or any other bludgeon, unnoticed. But, let me
have a gun, and Imight creep behind bushes, copy all
the arts of war in ambush; but, as a general thing, it
would all be useless. His crowship, a sentinel, sitting
on some high tree looking out, would spy me, and in a
jiffy you would hear him sing out, 'Caw, caw, caw!'
and away they all would go, making the air ring again
with the same cry, and laughing in their sleeve at me,
if they happened to have one. I have witnessed this a
thousand times."  "'So have we," said the boys. "And
a thousand times I have felt my heart palpitate, when,
at the moment I expected to win the prize, they have

42


THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

been warned by the sentinel, whose sharp eye detected
me in my hiding-place, and they have all flown off,
making merry at my expense
" Crows are not philosophers, eli, boys? Then I
should like you to account for this. You see an old
setting crow, perched on the top of a tree, or on a
fence-stake, near the poultry-yard. There she sits, the
very picture of 'patience sitting on a monument.'
What does it mean? Watch yonder hen, and you
shall see. She softly threads her way through the
briers or leaves, or she is scratching in the straw behind.
the barn. Her crowship looks on, well content to bide
her time!
The hen, too, has her philosophy ; but perhaps, in
the present instance, it is a very foolish one. Like some
persons we wot of, the less they know the wiser they
think they are ! for, she has no sooner accomplished
the great work of laying an egg, than she must tell all
the world the wonder ; and away she goes cackling,
and fuming, and fussing, at the top of her voice ! Now
watch her crowship ! You hear not a word from her
But she softly lifts her wing, and adown she sails to the
nest ! She pauses a moment, to see that all is right.
The crow is wonderfully circumspect, and teaches man
a good lesson! She looks all around her, before she
acts in such an enterprise ! Perhaps she feels guilty,
and therefore she thinks that some wily boy may have
placed a trap there for her destruction, as I have
known boys to do. Therefore, she draws herself steal-
thily up to the nest,--stands, as it were, on tiptoe,
stretches out her neck, peeps well in,--and then,-the.
track being clear,-I would not give much for that.

egg !" "Good, good, good !" said the boys, clapping
their hands,-" just like them !"
aI add one other instance of the philosophy of crows.
When they grew uncommonly wily, and yet uncommon-
ly destructive in the corn-field, I resolved, at my father's
suggestion, on another plan for their destruction. I
took a large quantity of corn, and, with a needle, in-
serted a horse-hair through the centre of each grain,
and tied it fast. This corn, so arranged, I scattered
broadcast over the field. 'Now,' says I, 'I guess I
shall be too smart for you.' Well, one or two would
pick up a grain, examine it,-it wouldn't do! He
would set one foot on the grain, take the hair. in his
beak, and tug away until in some way he would get it
free ; if not, he would give it up. One fellow, less dis-
creet, or more hungry than the rest, swallowed a grain.
Piresently I saw he was in misery. 'Now,' says I, ' old
fellow, you are gone !' He flew up, made a call, and
three or four flocked about him; and the last I saw of
them, one was tugging at the hair to pull it out of his
throat! I gave up, in despair of catching or killing
crows, in that way ! Crows are philosophers, boys, it is
useless to deny it! The only way I could ever save the
corn from them, was by rolling the grains well in tar,
before planting. They are not fond of tar."  "No,"
says Tom Jenkins, "it smells and tastes something like
gunpowder, and they are afraid of it !"
"Well, boys, I suppose a turkey-hen is not a philoso-
pher,-a feminine philosopher ?"
" Have you ever had your own hen, and chickens, or
turkey and her young, to care for and nurse, as a man
would nurse his own child? If not, you are no judge,

44

45


46

THE BLEMMERTONS; oR,

It is only the real country boy who understands these
things. Your city nursling, what knows he of the
philosophy of fowls? Perhaps, he understands them
on the table, if he has money enough to buy them.
Otherwise, I trow, in these hard times,-which have
been since the days of Adam,--he does not understand
them even then (stand over them he never does). Un-
derstand the philosophy of fowls! Why, one-half of
the city dandies, swaggering under whiskers and cigars,
have not philosophy enough to carve one, when it is
served on the table cooked, and ready for the knife!
"If you had been a boy when I was, and with me
watched my turkey-lien, to find her nest, you would not
have said that she lacked philosophy ! She never in-
tended that I or any one else should know where it was.
Nay, if she could hinder it, even his honor, her liege-
lord, was not let into the secret. But, I generally ac-
quired it by dint of effort,-by sly, stealthy movements
and watchings. She would be with the flock, carelessly
picking about the poultry-yard. Presently, she would
shear off,-seem to lose all taste for society ; in fact,
to become too fastidious or aristocratic to associate with
others. So she would gradually work her way off from
them; and then you would see her glide along stealthi-
ly, now this way, then that, but never in the direction
of her nest.
" My position would be taken behind an old house,
or a bunch of briers, or a tree. As she moved along, I
altered my position, taking pains to keep out of sight,
and at a respectful distance. If ever she saw me, it was
enough ! 'She was only idling her time then!' ' She
was not going to her nest !' 'Indeed, I was mistaken

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.47
in suspecting such a thing.' ' Dear me,' she seemed to
say, 'how is it, that I have wandered so far from my
companions!' And she would turn about, and com-
mence retracing her steps, with all the naivets of the
most consummate coquette ! For a whole day, has she
coquetted me in this way, without going to her nest.
My only plan was, when I was detected, to make tracks
boldly for the house. She would be watching me,-no,
not she ! Nevertheless, I would have to make a final
clearance, and fall upon another plan to accomplish my
object, which was simply to return home, and take my
position at a garret window, and look after her until she
ceased to fear my intrusion, and then to steal out again
and follow her up in the same sly way, or else, for that
day, give up the attempt! .A turkey-hen is not a phi-
losopher, eh ?
"Then, go with me into the fields, and watch her
movements with her young. Mark her care and watch-
fulness. How stately is her walk; how soft her. tread,
as the little ones run about her feet! Hear her call
them, when she finds food; see the little ones obey that
call. But, above all, mark that eye of hers; see it
turned up to the heavens, in the full glare of the broil-
ing noon-day sun, which you dare not face ! But, she
has a thin film which she draws over her eye, and
which protects it from the sun's.rays, yet enables her
to see. And ever and anon, first one eye and then the
other is turned up, to scan the high arch of the heav-
ens; and if, perchance, kite or eagle hover near, her
keen eye searches him out, even though he flaps his
wing under the full blaze of the sun ! The young are
warned, and immediately they seek a hiding-place !


THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

"See her again, passing, with her stately tread,
through the fields. A snake is descried in the grass!
O, then, such a sputtering you never heard,-' Put !-
put !-put !-put !'-and all the young ones hurry'up
and gather around, and stretch out their little necks,
and gaze at the snake, answering in the same language,
--put !--put !-put ! If any one acquainted at all with
turkey language is near at hand, he knows the meaning
of all this, prepares a stick, draws up, and kills the
snake, and the fuss is ended: otherwise, having wearied
themselves with the alarm, one by one they turn away,
quit their grumbling and ' putting,' and go on their
way as quietly as ever."
"That's all true," said the boys : "we know it is."
" O ! Mr. Lovegood," said little Ben Jones, "let me
tell you what I saw last summer."  "Tell on Ben,"
said Mr. Lovegood.
"I was walking through the orchard, and I heard
the turkeys quarrelling and 'putting,' as you say, over
something ; and when I went up, sure enough, they
had found a viper ! And what do you think, Mr.
Lovegood? The viper had a toad in his mouth, whose
head just projected out of his mouth. In a minute
more, he would have swallowed him. I took a stick,
struck the viper a blow, the toad sprang out of his
mouth, and away he went as fast as he could hop, his
little eyes almost popping out of his head, right through
the flock of young turkeys, to their great dismay! I
watched the toad as far as I could see him; he was
hopping away, for his life."  "Good for you, Ben! I
am glad to see you observant of such things. I have
seen the same thing, when a boy, several tinles.

48

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.              49
"Now, boys, you all know how old chanticleer, and
the mother hen, of all tribes, turkey, chicken, duck,
know the birds of prey from those that are not. A
Buzzard, (Buteo, or Triorches,) which preys only on
dead animals, may sail about, all day, unnoticed. But,
so soon as a bird of the accipitris genus, which is a bird
of prey, the kite or eagle, for instance, makes his
appearance, what a scream, and rush, and flutter, is
immediately raised, and how all the little ones scamper
off to a hiding-place!
"I have not told you the half yet, boys ; but I fear
to tire your patience."
"O do go on, Mr. Lovegood; it is so pleasant !'
"Well, did you ever come suddenly on a covey of
young partridges in a thicket? I have, very often. It
is a beautiful sight ! I have seen the little fellows run,
with the shell yet on the back. Walking through the
sedge or leaves, your .ears are suddenly stunned with a
flutter, and the scream of the parent birds, and all
around you are twenty or more of these little fellows,
hustling and scampering about, hither and thither ! In
a moment, ere your astonishment has subsided, there is
profound silence ! You see not so much as the rust-
ling of a leaf! The old birds are near at hand, running
round with drooping wings, presenting the truest
picture of woe, and touching your heart with their pite-
ous cries !
"Now, what has become of those little fellows? You
mean to catch one of them! Well, catch it, if you
can ! I defy you! I have tried it, a hundred times !
They may be within two rods of you, or they may be
twenty rods off,--so it is, for the life of you, you can't
3

t _
'
r
,
i     '
f

II

3
. ,
s
t
4
1
((
i
f
i
i
t


TIE BLEMiMERToNS; OR,

find one of them ! Those little fellows have more phi-
losophy than you! They are masters of their profes-
sion, which, in the present instance, is simply to hide
from you, and defy your search ! You withdraw a
space out of sight, but not out of hearing. Now listen!
What do you hear? The low, mournful voice of the
parents, assuring the little ones that danger is over, and
calling them together,-' Whe-ew-whe-ew-whe-ew,'
their little throats warble in an undertone ! If the
parent birds have separated, you hear ringing out on
the air, in a soft, clear voice,-' Bob-white,-Bob-
white,-Bob-white !'  And presently you hear the
answer, ' Bob-white,-Bob-white,-Bob-white!'-and
Bobby comes up; and then, oh, such a prattling avid
jollifying you never heard,-they are all so happy!
"And now, boys, I have done," said Mr. Lovegood.
" I speak as a simple-minded boy. In fact, this scene
and these thoughts make a boy of me again ! They are
but a feeble picture of my boyish enthusiasm, over
such common-places of my younger life, which have
left deep marks and lines on my memory ! Nor have
I told you of these things, simply to make up a story.
They are facts,-facts just as they occurred, true to life,
true to nature, without one line of embellishment ! God
bless you, boys! Keep your young hearts pure and
innocent, as the day you came from the holy font.
When you grow to man's estate, still be boys, little
weaned children, in heart, and life, and conversation!
Still meditate on these simple, but beautiful memories
of your younger days! And then, with me, you will
see in them something to admire, something to adore!
You will see the handiwork of Jehovah, written,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              51
not only on the seas and floods, and the great worlds
above us ; but in the instincts of the fowls of the air,
and the fishes of the sea ; and with the sweet Psalmist
of Israel, your heart will break out in the jubilant
song: ' O praise the Lord of heaven: praise Him in the
height. Praise Him, all ye angels of His; praise
Him, all His hosts; praise Him, sun and moon; praise
Him, all ye stars and light; mountains and all hills ;
fruitful trees and all cedars ; beasts and all cattle ;
worms and FEATHERED FOwLS; kings of the earth, and
all people ; princes, and all judges of the world;
young men and maidens; old men'and children;
praise the NAiM of the Lord; for His NAME only is
excellent, and His praise above heaven and earth !' "
Now, where is the boy that would not love Mr. Love-
good ?


THE BLEMMERToNS; OR

CHAPTER V.

A SPLENDID BALL AT MRS. BLEMMERTON 'S. REVELATIONS
OF CHARACTER.
TrE anxiously-eXpected night at last arrived ; and, at
nine o'clock, I found myself, with a palpitating heart,
at Mr. Blemmerton's door. The scenes of the past
night had sufficed to allay many of my misgivings,
touching my debut into the coteries of , and its
revelations, to render me more averse to the common-
places of that sort of life to which I was about to be in-
troduced. For a while, I stood undetermined, whether
I should enter or not. I wavered between desire and
shrinking ; but, at last, I took courage,-pulled lustily
at the bell,-and, the next moment, was ushered into a
full blaze of light, and heard announced, in a patroniz-
ing voice : "Jonathan Heartful, Esquire."
What an array of elegance, fashion, and beauty met
my eyes ! The room seemed filled with diamonds,
sparkling and flashing in the blaze of the gorgeous chan-
delier. But I pause not to enter into minutia. The
reader understands all about it. Every thing was, as
certain writers would say, comme ii faut, for such an
occasion. The mirrors were, for all the world, like all
fashionable mirrors in high life, and cost but little less
than four thousand dollars. And the carpets, in beau-
ty of style and-richness of texture, were not a whit be-
hind other fashionable carpets of the most costly fab-

DOTTINGS BY TIlE WAYSIDE.              53
rics; in short, every thing about the house, was in a
style of elegance and magnificence, in keeping with the
wealth of Mr. John Bleinerton, while the delectables
for the palate composed the choicest productions of the
four quarters of the globe. Smiling nymphs and stately
matrons, and elderly young ladies, on the wrong side of
thirty, in satins, silks, and velvets, of the richest styles,
and trig, dandified gentlemen, in kids and moustaches
of the latest fashion, all were busy, paying court to the
pleasures and hilarities of the evening !
Mr. Heartful felt like a caged bird, but newly im-
prisoned, whose heart flutters at every strange sight or
sound. "Will Mr. Heartful be presented to Mrs. Blem-
merton ?" Mr. Heartful, covered with blushes, and trem-
bling with modesty, is presented to Mrs. Blemmerton.
Mrs. Blemmerton is very condescending, is "happy to
have the pleasure of Mr. Ieartful's company at her en-
tertainment. It's only a small affair,-a select few.
The grand season has not yet arrived. Hopes Mr. H.
will enjoy himself."
"Mr. lleartful acknowledges himself highly compli-
mented. Has no doubt, that he shall spend an exceed-
ingly agreeable evening. He is but little acquainted
with city habits and etiquette. Being but a novice,
raw, uncouth, just from the rural districts, he expects
merely to be a learner." " Oh, Mr. Heartful, you
scarcely need make any apology. Your name is suffi-
cient to introduce you into the best circles everywhere.
The Heartfuls, of Ifeartfulville, are well known in the
city. You are no stranger here, Sir !" Mr. Heartful is
a little non plused; feels as though he would -rejoice to
be in the free open country again, musing on the stars,


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  55

listening to the low, sad song of the Whip-poor-will, or
holding sweet converse with Nature!
"Dele, dear !"- " This, Mr. Heartful, is my eldest
daughter, Miss Deliah Airmyth Bleimerton. Mr.
Heartful, my dear, of Heartfulville,-of whom  you
heard your papa speak. Mr. lleartful is about to take
up his residence permanently in the city, we hope !"
" O, I hope so," says Miss Deliah Airmyth. "It will
really be an acquisition to society !  Ah! me, pity
knows we need it."
Mr. Ileartful has little relish for this line of conver-
sation, and evidently wants something to say,-looks
innocent,-plays with his watch-guard. At last, he
has a happy thought,-his countenance brightens up :
"Was Miss Blemmerton ever in lleartfulville ?" "No,
she had never had that pleasure. But she had heard a
great deal about Ileartfulville. She believed her papa
had a good many business transactions there; and he
went there very often himself without taking any
of the family, which she regi-etted. And you are from
Ileartfulville, are you? 0, how much I should like
to visit the place!  The society there is so excel-
lent! The people are so polished and highly edu-
cated !"
Poor Mr. Heartful felt down deep in his pockets,-
thought of his tailor, his mirror, and his boots! Could
Miss Deliah Airmyth be in earnest, or was she quizzing
him?
"0 , how she would like to enjoy a ride o.n horse-
back in the country ! She wished her papa would take
them to IHeartfulville next summer, instead of Saratoga
or Newport! The novelty of these latter places had

worn out ; they were so tame and commonplace now,
that they were quite tired of them!"
"Had Mr. Heartful been to Mons. Grandsinger's con-
c(ert ?  how  did he like it ?"  Unfortunately, Mr.
Ieartful had not been to Mons. Grandsinger's concert.
"Then he had missed a rare entertainment. 0, by all
means he should not delay ! Mons. Grandsinger would
give but two more concerts. She should go, on both
occasions. Would not miss it for the world ! o, his
performances are so exqisite! lHe was her beau-ideal
of a concertant!"
here this enlightened and edifying conversation was
interrupted, by the approach of Mr. Blemmnierton. Mr.
JBlemmerton is exceedingly gracious and patronizing.
" He takes but little interest in such convivialities.
They are fashionable, and are, therefore, highly proper,
and -lie is pleased to see young pei'sos enjoy them-
selves. Is happy indeed to enjoy the society of his
friends, in such delightful entertainments; but feels
rather out of place. Thinks he is better fitted for the
counting-room  than the drawing-room. Takes more
interest in the affairs of the Church. Every man, he
thinks, has his particular talent. Just now lie is par-
ticularly interested in the Church.
"lHe is a vestryman of St. -----'s Church, and
the Rector, Rev. Dr. Goodenough, has just sent in his
resignation, on account of ill-health, and the infirmities
- of old age. Poor man, lie hardly knows what lie is to
do ; for, though his salary was always large, yet he
believes, that he has saved but little, if any thing,
having never practised economy. The expense of living
in the city is indeed very considerable ; but you know,

54      THE BLEMMERTONS; OR

11


THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

Sir, that a clergyman needs not to be at as much
expense as we, who have to entertain a great deal; and
then Dr. Goodenough was so charitable, that I verily
believe he entirely overlooked the first rule of charity,
that 'it begins at home.' But, I do not doubt, that the
congregation will help him along !
"At this moment, their great trouble was, to find a
suitable successor. So many eminent men had been
named to them, that they were really baffled in their
choice. Dr. Goodenough was very eloquent and pop-
ular.  Their congregation was large, wealthy, and
intelligent, and there was a great variety of tastes to
be satisfied; therefore, it required a peculiar man to
fit the place exactly ; and it was a nice point, to select
a clergyman who could please all tastes and all parties
interested. The Rev. Dr. Skyrocket had been named
to them, as an exceedingly pleasing and captivating
preacher ; one of the most entertaining men to be
found: his thoughts are always original and brilliant;
and he is so poetical, that one is always enraptured with
the beauties of his composition ! And a gentleman
from the neighborhood of Mr. lleartful's native place
had spoken of a Rev. Mr. Lovegood, as one of the best
pastors, and most eloquent of preachers, that he ever
had heard. But, we know nothing of him,-never
heard of him before. And it is strange that we have
not, if he is so great a man! .Still, as he has been so
highly spoken of, by a gentleman in whose judgment I
place confidence, I have determined to invite him to
preach for us, that the congregation may judge how
they would like him!"
" A trial sermon, I suppose, as it is called ?" ''"Just

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              57
so: a trial sermon. The congregation would like to
judge of his style and voice, you know. For my part,
I care not so much about matter and manner, as I do
about voice. I detest one of your squeaking, wheezing
voices !" "Then I know you need not invite Mr. Love-
good to do any such thing !" "Ah ! you know him, do
you, Mr. Ileartful ?" "I do; he has been my pastor
for ten years 1"  "You don't say so! Do tell! How
glad I am that you are acquainted with him! And he
wouldn't come to preach a trial sermon, which might
make him Rector of St.        's Church!"  "No,
Sir, not to be made the Potentate of the world,!" "Do
tell ! That is so strange !"
"Not at all, Mr. Elemmerton. At least, Mr. Love-
good would tell you so. I have often heard him express
his opinion on this subject. And I know he has refused
many such invitations. He thinks it beneath the dignity
of his office. I have heard him say, that he would feel
but little removed from the office of the mountebank in
such an engagement, and that he had degraded his
office."  " Bless me, it is so singular ! Why, a num-
ber of the clergy doso ; indeed, the clergy of all the
Church 01)"
" I know not, precisely, what that last sentence
means, Mr. Blemmerton. But, Mr. Lovegood does not
pattern after the sects. His opinion is simply, that it
is unbecoming, to preach what are called trial-sermons.
He think the general character and reputation of a
clergyman ought to be quite sufficient; that the hearing
of a clergyman preach, is not a sufficient criterion to
judge of his qualities as a pastor. If a clergyman is
free from reproach, is faithful in the discharge of his


58      THE BLEMMER ToNS; OR

duties, has strength of mind and body for the fulfilment
of the duties of any post for which he may be recomi-
mended by those whose judgments are reliable,-these
ought to be sufficient data for any congregation to base
their call upon. These, at all events, are his views.
He may be a little singular in them, but I know he
will not depart from them ; he would not, I think,
accept a call to any parish, on any other grounds."
" Then you know him well ?" " I do, Sir. And all
I know about the Church, I know from him !"  " Well,
what for a preacher is he ?"  "As a preacher, I con-
sider him in. the first rank. But, Mr. Blemmerton, I
cannot judge for your fastidious, sentimental congrega-
tion. Such, at least, I take it to be, from your repre-
sentation. You say their tastes are various ; and, in a
multitude of tastes, there will be differences. What
pleases one, will likely displease another. I consider
Mr. Lovegood very eloquent as a preacher, and so do
all his congregation. Our tastes, in this respect, are a
unit. But we consider this, if any thing, his least
excellence. It is as a pastor, going in and out among
his people, that they mostly admire and love him.
There is but one opinion and one feeling in regard to
him at home, among all ages, classes, and conditions ;
lie is loved and reverenced as a father !"
" Ah! Mr. Heartful, that, after all, is what we want,
a clergyman who will be popular, and beloved by all.
Well, really, your account of Mr. Lovegood is quite
gratifying. He must be an 'Evangelical,' of the real
grit! But is he a D. D. ?" "No, he is not a D. D. He
covets no distinctions. I doubt whether he ever thought
of such a thing. But, if ever a clergyman deserved

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.               59
that title, le does. And yet it could add nothing to
Mr. Lovegood's usefulness. It would make him not a
whit abler as a divine, nor render him more lovely and
venerable in the estimation of his congregation. lIe
is an humble-mind ed, faithful mai,-earnest, pathetic,
tender, even as a father among his children. But he
knows how to be sharp, when lie finds it necessary.  lHe
is no hireling to flee, as the craven coward, when the
wolf comet !"
"But, Mr. 11eartful, are you sure that lie is an Evan-
gelical,-are you sure that he is not a Puseyite?" " Ah!
Sir, that I cannot tell you ; for I know not what you
understand .by evanigelicalismn. I know, that Mr. Love-
good recognizes the Prayer-Book, from lid to lid, as the
Church's expositor of Ioly Writ, and that lie neither
transcends nor fills below its teachings ; but, holds it to
bc his authorized guide, in the interpretation of Scrip-
ture and his pastoral duties. This cain hardly consti-
tute him a Puseyite,-(unless you use that term as
synonymous with Churchman,)-but does, I apl)rehend,
constitute him  a sound, thorough Churchman, and,
according to my theory, a tthoroughlly evangelical
teacher ! Puseyism is something I never heard Mr.
Lovegood speak of; and I confess, that, though I have
often heard the cognomen spitefully used, I have never
heard it technically explained, nor have I even taken
the pains to endeavor' to ascertain exactly what is
meant by it. Perhaps, if you can tell its meaning, I
nMay be able more satisfactorily to answer your ques-
tion I!"
" Well, let mec see. Ah, well ! It means,-I don't
kmiow that I can tell! I do not profess to be much


60         THE BLEMMERToNs; OR
versed in such matters. I could tell you all about my
bank books and bills, and my rent-roll ! Put, really,-
ha! ha! ha !-I am not posted vp, as they say on
'Change, in such matters! Oh, yes, that's it,-Mrs.
iBlenunerton can tell ! Mrs. Bllemmerton !" " What,
my dear ?"  "iDo tell us, what Puseyism means ! Mr.
Heartful and I have been talking about Church affairs,
and strange to tell, neither of us knows exactly what
Puseyism is ! And I am sure it is not to be wondered
at, for Mr. Heartful is not yet fully initiated into all
the ways of the city, and I have but little time for
any thing except business.  Ha! ha! ha !   I just
told Mr. Heartful, if it were a question of bank books,
bills, and rent-rolls, I could answer him! Now do tell
us, my dear, for you have more time for such things
than we."
" O certainly, my dear! Let me see. I heard Mrs.
Wise Grumbler,-she, you know, who left St.  's
Church because they had prayers every day in the
week, which she says is rank Puseyism,-well, I heard
her say, that these Puseyites have been much talked
about of late, as having done a great deal of harm in
the Church ! They are very Romish, too, in their ten-
dencies ! And we abhor Romanism! They lay gieat
stress on the sacraments, especially on baptism, and
undervalue preaching. They also preach what is called
the Apostolic succession, which, old Aunt Sally Milk-
andwater stands to it, unchurches all the other Churches..
And then, as Dele Airimyth said that Dr. Riproarer said
(we are charitable, Mr. Heartful, and go to all the
Churches) in his sermon last Sunday night, the Puseyite
clergy are so exceedingly faithful in the discharge of

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.               61
their duties, in looking after the poor, in watching over
their congregations, that nothing escapes their eye; and
they. make themselves so winning and fascinating by
their kindnesses, that the people are in danger of being
carried right smack into Rome, before they are aware
of it,-and so he warned his flock against their insinu-
ations!"
" Well, if faithfulness constitutes a clergyman a
Puscyite, then is Mr. Lovegood a thorough Puseyite!
And I just said, that he held the Prayer-Book, and
certainly he could not do that, and deny or fail to hold
'and teach the Apostolic succession !" " Oh, Sir, pardon
me ! I don't think Mrs. Blemmerton meant that, nox
did Dr. IRiproarer intend to be so understood. But he
must have meant, that they were so zealous, that the
people, in their zeal, lost sight of their true character
and peculiar notions, and so they gradually introduced
them."
" Ah, you mean, they catch the people with guile.
There must be a great many guileful clergymen in the
Church, if all who hold the Apostolic succession, lay
great stress on the sacraments, and are in favor of daily
prayers in the Church, have been inveigled into these
notions by their craftiness. And what a beautiful guile-
fulness it is. The Church has always been full of it.
Trace her history where you may, and you behold its
marks. She copied it from the Apostles, who taught
the Apostolic succession, laid great stress on the sacra-
ments, and had daily prayers ! St. Paul was full of
this same guile ; and once had it insinuated of him,
that he caught the people with guile. 'I did not bur-
den you; nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you with

=.


62         THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,
guile,' 2 Cor. xii. 15. But, he replies to the implied
insinuation, and nobly vindicates himself. In refusing
to be burdensome to you myself, it was only a stroke
of policy, you say ! Be it so. But I ask: ' Did I make
a gain of you, by any of them whom I- sent to you?
Did Titus make a gain of you? Walked we not in the
same spirit ? Walked we not in the same steps? 1 C'or.
xii. 17, 18. Wherein, then, was the guile, unless in
good works and self-denial, in refusing to be burden-
some to them in pecuniary or temporal matters? But
hear him further, in his noble vindication : ' Again,
think you that we excuse ourselves unto you? We
speak before God in Christ; but we do all things, dearly
beloved, for your edifying.'
"And so, Mr. Blemmerton, to answer your question
as fully as I am able, if Mr. Lovegood be one of the
guileful ones, his guile is like that of the Apostle! le
as cordially abhors the errors of Romanism, as any
man. In truth, he is no friend of error anywhere, un-
der whatever cloak or colors. But, his zeal against
error is intelligent, and tempered with prudence and
discretion. le knows what he is about. He does not
beat the air, nor use language that lie does not under-
stand. le appreciates the grounds of true Catholicism,
and meets and opposes Rome on those grounds. He is
not run mad, fighting shadows. He does not rashly
reject any thing, simply because Rome happens to hold
it; but, what he rejects, he rejects because it is not
true, not a part of the one Holy Catholic Faith, whether
it be found in Rome or Geneva ! Nor has he any sym-
pathy with those whose faces are Rome-wards,--or
looking towards, and longing after Geneva ! lie wishes,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.              ,63
that if any such remain behind in the Church, they
would hasten to make their exit.
" He finds the one Holy Catholic Faith whole and
entire in the Church, without the additions of Rome, or
the subtractions of Geneva ; and to this he clings. te
laments the mistaken policy and false step of the few,
who have gone out from us to join the ranks of Rome
and the sects. But, their rashness and folly, I can
safely say, will never shake his confidence in the
Church, as to her possession and profession of the truth,
nor cause him to swerve, one jot or tittle, in the
proclamation of the doctrines of the Church, as they
have been handed down from the beginning, and are
defined in the teachings of the Prayer-Book,-the Lit-
urgy, Offices, Articles, and Homilies. Neither does
Mr. Lovegood undervalue preaching, but rather insists
upon it as a Divine institution, wherein he himself sets a
most worthy example, as an apt and skilful divider of
the words of life. He does, indeed, lay great stress on
the sacraments, just as the Scriptures do. But I never
heard him deliver a sermon, on either of the sacra-
m ents, in which he did not show conclusively, that his
doctrine corresponded with the Scripture and the Prayer=
Book. And surely this ought to be sufficient for any
Churchmen !"
Thus far, upon the whole, notwithstanding the an-
noyance of the foregoing conversation, Mr. Heartful had
spent an agreeable evening: for, nothing could have
been more congenial, than to speak of his beloved pas-
tor, and the Church which he loved so well, and appre-
ciated so truly.
" Who is that gentleman with whom papa is convers-


64      THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

ing in the corner ?" said Miss Julia Jasper Blemmer-
ton to her sister Deliah Airmytli. " 0, Julia, that is
Mr. Heartful, of leartfulville! Isn't he handsome?
Haven't you been introduced yet?   Well, go round
towards papa, and as soon as he sees you he will intro-
duce you." Miss Julia Jasper moves in the direction
of her papa. "0, Julia, dear, you are not acquaint-
ed with Mr. Heartful!- Mr. Heartful, this is my young-
est daughter, Miss Julia Jasper Blemmerton."
And Mr. Heartful has the distinguished honor of
standing in the presence of the belle of the family.
"Miss Julia Jasper is quite fatigued, from the exercises
of the evening,"-seeks a sofa. Mr. Hleartful, of course,
follows suit. "Does Mr. Heartful dance ?"  " No,-
that is an accomplishment that Mr. Heartful is not mas-
ter of. In fact, he has no taste for it."  "Miss Julia
Jasper is surprised. Really, she could not live with-
out dancing. She pities any one who is not fond of
dancing."  "Mr. H. is obliged for her commiseration."
Miss Julia Jasper smiles approvingly.
" What amusements afford Mr. IT. the most pleas-
ure ?"  "Mr. Heartful is not addicted to any particu-
lar amusements. He rides out occasionally, for exer-
cise, and spends his leisure hours in reading." " Oh
dear, reading to me is such a bore, unless I get hold of
a really spicy novel. And a spicy -novel is so rare;
most of the light reading of the present day is so
trashy !" "Mr. Heartful agrees with Miss Julia Jas-
per, that there is a great amount of lightness in much
of the current light literature. But, he suggests, that
she might find something more entertaining, in the
works of substantial merit and usefulness. Something

DoTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              65
historical, or scientific, would expand the mind by
affording it solid instruction. At best, he thought
nothing more than the poetry of life was to be found in
sentimental works." "But, Miss Julia Jasper had so
much to do with substantials at school, that she is
heartily sick and tired of them."
And the belle of the family is threatened with a fit
of nervousness, at the bare mention of sound, solid,
wholesome reading. Mr. Heartful feared, though he
kept his fears to himself, that the extent of Miss Julia
Jasper's education consisted in dancing a waltz or two,
or drumming a few notes on the piano. He doubted
whether she had ever read, understandingly, half a doz-
en books in her life.
" But Miss Julia Jasper was passionately fond of mu-
sic. She practised two hours, every evening that they
hadn't company. Last evening, she was ridiculously
interrupted, in the midst of a most enrapturing piece of
music; and she had been in an ill humor ever since,
which she really thought pardonable. Mamma had
given the servants leave of absence a while, that eve-
ning, and there was no one to answer the bell; and, in
the very midst of my music, the bell rang. I hurried
to the door, and oh ! just to think, it was only a little
urchin who wanted to see papa ! Now, wasn't that
provoking ?"  "Was it a boy or girl ?" "Oh! a little
ragged, barefooted girl. Dear me, Sir, the city is full
of them. There is no living in peace for them. I do
wish we could get where there are no beggars! I think
Dives must have grown accustomed to them. And one
half of them are impostors. It is a great pity the po-
lice do not look after themm" "What did the little


66         THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,
girl want, Miss Julia Jasper ?"  " Oh, the same old
story. Her mother was sick, and her father was dying.
Wanted to see papa. Her father lived in one of his houses,
and she wanted to see papa about the rent, -wanted
hin to give it up, I reckon. It was the sixth time she
had been to the door, within the last three days. And
she had been told, again and again, not to annoy us.
Oh, the impudence of these people !"
" Did she see your papa ?" " No. Papa was not in;
and if he had been, it would have been all the same.
He has lost a great deal of rent by that man; and I
heard him say, that he did not intend to lose any more.
Besides, papa says, the expense of living is becoming
so great, that he can't afford to be over-iiidulgent. We
must dress in the fashion, you know, Mr. Hleartful; and
ma must give parties, and furnish her house like other
people. She had as well be out of the world as out of
the fashion ! And if papa listened to the stories of all
these people, he would never get a penny of rent from
one of them. And a large portion of his income is
from the rent of his houses in the occupancy of that
class. These little beggar girls are very expert. They
can cry, just when they please. I wish you could have
been here, to see how lustily she cried, and wrung her
hands, just as though she was in earnest. How admni-
rably they would act on the stage ! They are ahead of
nature. It's by long practice, Sir; and practice makes
Perfectt"
" But, Miss Julia Jasper, I think it highly probable,
that that little girl was not an impostor. May it not
have been, that she really had at home a sick mother,
and a dying father, and came to inmplore mercy ?"

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  67

"0O, no, Sir! I have no confidence in any of them.
They are so well drilled in imposture, that you never
know how to place confidence in any of them. You
have not lived here long enough yet, Mr. Ileartful, to
understand theni"
'"I have lived here long enough to witness much
of wretchedness, much of misery and sorrow. Had
you been with me, last night, as I followed a lone,
little barefooted, beggar girl to her home of poverty;
had you, with me, entered that home of wretchedness,
and, with me, witnessed the dying agonies of that father,
and heard the heavy sighing of the sick mother, and
looked upon that mute, crushed, half-clad, half-starved
child, destitute of food or fuel, and listened to the dying
man's tale of woe, of long years of penury and pinch-
ing want, you would hardly have suspected all the beg-
gar:girls of imposture.  O! that there were more
angels of mercy in the world, fulfilling the law of chari-
ty and love !"
Mr. Heartful was sick at the heart. He was too full
for utterance. " Parvi afffectus loquuntur, magni ta-
cent." 0 that he stood again beneath the majestic
elm, which so gracefully spread its branches before his
father's door! 0 for that quiet, unsophisticated, pure
home of his childhood, where the tainted breath of
worldliness mingled not, to mar the breathings of the
pure in heart! And this was a sample of fashionable
life,-life in the world. Life, life, said he, half aloud,
how many shades mingle in thy picture ! Memories of
the past gushed into his full heart, carrying him back
to the day of his simple childhood. Hlis silver-headed


68         THE BLEMMERTONs; ORS
parents, ripe with age and honors, were before him.
He beheld them again, as they stood, one foot in the
grave, and, with streaming eyes and uplifted hands, in-
voked the blessing of heaven upon him. 0 ! how
pure, how sanctified was that memory!
He could see himself a simple, artless child, oie of a
company of six happy boys and girls, all on bended
knee, forming a circle around his beloved mother, their
little heads nestling in her lap, and cheerful hearts and
lips repeating "Our Father." O blessed day of child-
hood! Thou canst ne'er return again.   0 blessed
MOTHER'S love! still linger about us, and guide us on
our way !
" Go out, go out into the busy world, fulfil thy des-
tined lot; but al! let not these sainted days be ever
blotted from thy memory. Let them ever be as the
bow in the cloud, giving a type of a brighter day in
the hours of gloom and darkness. Watch on, wait on,
struggle on ; the clouds will roll away at last. And as
thou standest on the mountain hieighitwf hope's youth-
ful picturing, a stream of light, pure, transparent, shall
flow softly down upon thee from the throne of the
ETERNAL, and chase away the shadows of darkness.
But ah ! remember, that as thou standest upon that
mountain height, the stream of light which shall fall
upon thee, shall cast a shadow from, thee into the valley
below,-and it shall lengthen out toward the tomb,-
stretch away toward the evening, when the toil shall
be ended,--and toward the morning of the Resurrec-
tion, when man shall stand in judgment before his God!

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.  69

CHAPTER VI.
A FURTHER INSIGHT INTO THE CHARACTER OF THE BLEM-
MERTONS. A VESTRY MEETING. OBSTINATE PEOPLE.
MR. HEARTFUL had pretty thoroughly read the Blem'
mertons. Mrs. and the Misses B. were but gilded but-
terflies, making a desperate effort at appearances,
striving for a position among the 6lite and fashionable,
-the aristocratic, as they termed them,-without any
other qualification than that of wealth, to back their
pretensions. Nevertheless, wealth is potent and covers
a multitude of blemishes; and, backed by it, they were
gradually edging their way into the best society. It is,
then, not to be wondered at, that minds constituted as
theirs were, should be elated by the dignity of their
position, and dazzled by the importance which they
supposed attached to their name ! Their highest ambi-
tion was to be popular, to be accounted liberal-minded,
and of importance in society,-to bask a brief day in
the sunshine of worldly folly and fashion, while morally
they remained devoid of even a single principle to meet
the stern realities of life, and possessed but few, if any,
of those marked traits of character which constitute the
true woman, and fit her for her sphere of dignity and
usefulness as an angel of love and mercy in the world.
Mr. Blemmerton had worked his way from extreme
poverty up to wealth. But he had long since forgotten
the humility of his younger days. Dollars and cents

i


w

70

THE BLEMMERToNs; oR,

were every thing in his estimation, and were all that
gave a man importance. Dollars and cents, he was
pretty sure, could move the world. Had Archimedes
possessed his philosophy, he would not have been
baffled in his problem.
Possessing this powerful lever, he was willing to use
it to the full extent of the ambition of his wife and
daughters.  Purse-proud, he doubted not that his
wealth gave him importance and influence in the
Church, and he wished to magnify himself in the eyes
of Mr. Ifeartful. But if Mr. H. understood but little of
the ways and workings of what Mrs. Blemmerton with
affected na'ivete termed high life, he did understand
something about the Church. He was not long in dis-
covering that Mr. B. was no Churchman; and this in
no invidious sense. His churchmanship was not siniply
meager and of a low standard in the estimation of Mr.
U., but,-to be guilty intentionally of writing what
may be considered an unmeaning sentence,-it was
absolutely nothing ; as More would write, it was a
nihility. Had he been imbued with any, even the
least spark of real love of the Church, though lie might
have entertained views which Mr. H. could not have
sanctioned, yet would he have left him much more
favorably impressed. He could and would have
esteemed him for his sincere affection for the Church
and religion, and have extended to him such a measure
of confidence and regard as he found he deserved.
But, alas ! there was no such element in Mr. Blemmer-
ton's character. He had no interest in any thing that
did not minister to his own and his family's ambition.
He was a pure worldling, and took the world for his

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

71

measure and reward. It was simply for fashion's sake
that he had taken a pew in St.      's Church. It
brought the Blemmertons into notice. It made a
pleasant Sunday's resort, afforded Mrs. and the Misses
13. a theme for the week's gossip, and enabled them to
see the fashions and display their wealth in their gor-
geous attire. It gave them an uppish look and ten-
dency.
Having mastered, as he supposed, a few cant phrases
of the day, such as "Evangelical" and " Puseyite," in
these he vested his stock of theological knowledge, and
fancied himself almost, if not quite, a Doctor in
Divinity
"Evangelical" preaching, in his mind, was merely
a dandyizing performance in the pulpit, in which there
mingled an occasional flash of lightning and a peal of
thunder,-with as little of' sulphur as, possible. And
"evangelical" doctrine was that which merely dealt in
generals, discoursed at large on the beauties and excel-
lences of the Gospel, talked about grace and the
WOIRLD's sinfulness, gave the old enemy a sound thresh-
ing occasionally, avoided indoctrinating, especially on
such out-of-the-way, unpopular subjects as the Church,
the ministry, and the sacraments; and always avoided,
as far as possible, coming down with the power and
energy of that sentence which makes a shaking of the
dry bones, as of the Lord's Spirit passing over them,-
Thou art the man !"
In short, " evangelical" preaching, in Mr.,Blemmer-
ton's estimation, was merely a shooting at sin on the
wing, but never cornering it up ; never following it into
a man's counting-room, or parlor, or even into his pew!

s
3
3

I
I


TnE ELEMMERTONS; OR,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

No, no ; this would not answer for Mr. Blemmerton.
His conscience was his citadel; it was sacred ; it must
not be disturbed. Clergymen should not be pointed
nor personal. They are not hired for that ! but to
preach, so as to tickle the fancy,-please the poetical
imagination of the Blemmertons and such like grandees!
As to a clergyman's coming right to the point, and
making every man feel his particular sinfulness, hold-
ing before him a mirror in which he might behold
himself; ah! this never crossed his mind.  And to
his mind all, or nearly all, was "Puseyism," that did
not exactly fit his measure of " Evangelicalisin."
Now, it must be told,. that the Vestry of St. 's
Church were not all Blemmertons. Nay, they were
right-hearted, right-minded men,--ien who loved and
appreciated the Church, and esteemed those who were
over them in the Lord, very highly in love for their
work's sake. 1 Thess. v. 13. But, by hook or by
crook, Mr. Blemmerton had worked himself in among
them, and was now vain enough to think, that all
responsibility rested on his shoulders. Consequently,
he was just now wonderfully puffed up with his impor-
tance in the Church. And the task of supplying St.
's Church with a Rector, was no insignificant
one. If he could do it, it would be " a feather in his
cap  of no ordinary beauty and brilliancy. He was
but little pleased with Mr. Heartful's account of the
Rev. Mr. Lovegood, on the whole. Yet, full of vanity,
desiring to manifest his importance and influence to
the other members of the Vestry and to the congrega-
tion, it struck him that it would be a capital stroke of
policy, if, he could get the start pf his colleagues, and

introduce the Rev. Mr. Lovegood to the congregation,
in the pulpit, the Sunday or so following.
Mr. Blemmerton slept but little, that night. Mr.
Lovegood, the Church, the Vestry, his own conse-
quence,-especially the last, weighed heavily on his
mind, and chased Morpheus from his pillow. The
matter was duly discussed with Mrs. Blemmerton. She
entirely agreed, that his plan was excellent. "Just the
thing!" said she. "We are as much entitled to an
opinion as any one. We pay a hundred dollars a year
for our pew, and I am sure we are worth nearly as
much as all the i'est of the Vestry put together. And
if I were you, I'd have my way !" This was enough.
Mrs. Blemmerton knew all the fashions, and certainly
she could not be mistaken on this point. And Julia
Jasper and Deliah Airmyth were just as decided in
sustaining the resolution!
Early the next morning Mr. Blemmerton wrote and
despatched the following epistle:
November -, 18-.
"REv. S1 --The Rev. Dr. Goodenough having
resigned the IRectorship of St.  's Church in this
city, and the congregation being desirous of filling his
place with a suitable preacher, and your name having
been favorably mentioned to me, this is to request, that
you will preach for us, .either on next Sunday, or the
Sunday following, as may best suit your convenience.
Enclosed please find $10 to pay your expenses.
"Very respectfully, etc.,
"Jon' BLEMMERTON."
4

,.
-! :
I

72

73-

r
{
4
f
k
( r
g
1


r
,
i
1
f
v4
/i [
_j'
jJ+
4
1
1

After despatching the aforesaid letter, Mr. B. felt
relieved of a great burden. He could now proceed to
business. The thing was done. He was in a good
humor,-fully satisfied with himself. He chuckled
over the idea.  Mr. Ileartful !-Pshaw ! he knew
nothing about human nature. Won't come to preach
a trial sermon for the Rectorship of St.       's
church!   Poh, poh, poh, nonsense !  We shall see.
Human nature is human nature, all the world over.
Mr. Blemmerton is interrupted in his revery, by a
lad who bears a note. It was from one of the wardens,
calling a meeting of the Vestry of St.  's Church'
the next evening. "Ileigh-ho ! what does this mean
quoth Mr. Blemmerton. "A Vestry meeting, eh!,
Well, well, we shall see."
*.     *      *       *. *          .*
The evening arrived ; the Vestry met ; and, to Mr. .
Elemmerton's surprise, it was called to consider Dr.
Goodenough's resignation, and also to elect a successor.
A member arose, and proposed the following resolu-
tions:
"Resolved, unanimously, by the Vestry of St.
's Church, that we have received with pain and
regret the resignation of our beloved Rector, the Rev.
Dr. Goodenough ; and that we are the more grieved, if
possible, at the cause which has led to the severance of
a tie so near and dear to all the congregation whom we
represent,-protracted ill health.
"Resolved, That we record with pleasure the debt
of gratitude due, by this congregation, to the Rev. Dr.
Goodenough, for his faithful and efficient services for
the past twenty years; and, in consideration of that

debt of gratitude, and the affection entertained by this
congregation for Dr. G., who, as a loving and venerable
father, has worn himself out in the spiritual service of
us his children in the Gospel, the Vestry hereby vote
to him twenty-five hundred dollars per annum for the
residue of his life; and after his death, should her life
be spared beyond his, one thousand dollars per annum
to his estimable wife, whom we cherish as a mother."
Mr. Blemmerton begged leave to object, very stren-
uously, to that resolution. It was a great sum of money.
In all his experience in the Church, he had never
known such a thing to be done. lie thought, that ves-
trymen were servants of the congregation ; and, for his
part, he wished to be cautious about squandering the
money of those whom he represented. lHe had a con-
science in the matter, and expected to be held to an
account for his deeds. He would vote for the first
resolution, most cheerfully ; for, no member of that
Vestry was more attached to Dr. G. than himself, nor
had he any more ardent admirer. Nor did he doubt,
that the congregation ought to be very charitable to
Dr. G.; and, if left to themselves, they would be. Let
them manifest their charities in a different way, each
one giving what he or she pleases. These were his
views. The money part of that resolution he could
not vote for. . It was saddling the congregation with an
enormous tax, that would require a considerable increase
in pew-rents. He now paid a hundred dollars per
annum for his pew; and, in all conscience, that was
enough. And if Dr. G. was poor, it was his own fault.
For twenty years he had enjoyed a large salary, and,
with economy, by this time he ought to have been

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

74

75

THE BLEMMERTONS; ORg

L

:
,
,a


a
j
,
,i,
;,
!
3
i!
'
,  {
;
;t
F
d;
P 'F
{i
1
i
t
'{
?
t
3
11
, i
'
}  ,
!t
'f
!!i

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

independent. Entertaining these views, he felt bound
to vote against that resolution ; and he felt strongly per-
suaded, that lie would be borne out by the congregation.
No one replied to Mr. B.'s speech. He stood alone
in his glory ; but without vanquishing the foe. The
President of the meeting put the vote. It was carried ;
all voting in the affirmative except Mr. Blemmnerton !
THE PREsIDENT.-" The next thing in order, gentle-
men, is the election of a Rector to succeed the Rev. Dr.
Goodenough." This he pronounced in 'a tremulous
voice, as the big tear-drops stood in his eyes. "I have
a gentleman to nominate, whose name and character
have been placed before me by Dr. Goodenough. And
here I trust we shall be entirely unanimous ; for, it is
by no means certain, that we can procure the gentle-
man I have in view, even if we give him a unanimous
vote. He is ardently attached to the people among
whon he has labored for ten years, and they are as de-
votedly attached to him. And I feel as though we
were about to offer to tear a father from his children. I
therefore name the Rev. Mr. Lovegood, Rector of
Church, Heartfulville. If any of you are unacquainted
with his excellent reputation, I need only say, upon the
authority of Dr. Good enough, that he is in every respect
just the man for us. That is enough for me, gentlemen,
and, I doubt not, quite enough for you."
"It is not enough for ine," said Mr. Blemmerton,
who, during the delivery of the brief remarks of the
President, had been very restive. " It is not enough
for me. Nor do I believe it will satisfy the congrega-
tion. I am for pleasing the congregation. Mrs. Fas-
tidious, Mrs. Nochurch, and Mrs. Fussy, all express-

76

DOTTINGS BY THIE WAYSIDE.            'U
ed to me their decided opinion, that the Vestry ought
to call no clergyman to this important charge, until the
congregation have had the privilege of hearing him
preach, that they may judge of his style, voice, etc., and
see what he looks like. This is my decided conviction.
I won't vote for any man, till I have seen him, and
heard him preach. And then, he hails from a very in-
significant post ; and I do contend, that St.  's is
entitled to a preacher of greater reputation. Our sala-
ry will command the highest talent in the land. And
I am iot for making any man's reputation. . I want a
man who brings a reputation with him. Why, he is
not even a D.ID.! You see, gentlemen, that I know
something about Mr. Lovegood; and, from what I
know, I should like to hear him preach, and I think it
probable lie will preach here in a Sunday or two. But
it is not clear, that I could vote for hime after hearing
him, for I think he is strongly tainted with Puseyism ;
yet that I would agree to waive, provided he pleased in
every other respect, and so would Mrs. Fussy, Mrs. Fas-
tidious, and Mrs. Nochurch, and the rest." Again
there was no reply.
" Gentlemen," said the President, "the Rev. Mr.
Lovegood is put in nomination for the Rectorship of
this church. You who are in favor of that nomination
will please say, Aye." All again in the affirmative,
except Mr. Blemmerton.
The next mail conveyed to Mr. Lovegood the follow-
ing letter:
",_ November, --, 18-.
" REv. AND DEAR SiN .-At a meeting of the Vestry
of St.     's Church, held last evening, you were

i

;.
,
;
,
+
,t
;,,
,
{j
;l
'!
i
:
a
i
r
,'
, l
+:
! !
i{
i;
f
i
1
i
3,
ti
{      +{


78

'T'E BLECMERToNS; oR1,

elected Rector of the aforesaid church, to succeed the
Rev. Dr. Goodenough, who has resigned on account of
ill health ; and the undersigned was required to coin-
municate the fact to you, and earnestly and affection-
ately to urge you to accept the charge of our congrega-
tion. In communicating the wishes of the Vestry, Rev.
and dear Sir, it is my duty to inform you, that your
election lacked one vote of being unanimous. But I
beseech you not to permit that circumstance to deter
you from accepting our call; for, were I at liberty to
speak freely, I could satisfy you, that without that vote
your choice will give the utmost satisfaction to all true
friends of the church in the congregation, and your ac-
ceptance will be hailed with joy.
"I know that we are asking you to sever very dear
ties ; and yet I trust soon to have the pleasure of com-
municating your favorable decision to the Vestry and
congregation. Rest assured, my dear Sir, that, in cast-
ing your lot amongst us, you will find warm hearts and
sincere friends, who will strive to be worthy of you, and
to compensate, in some measure, for the severance of
the ties that you will make in accepting our call.
" Should you be disposed to visit us before coning to
a determination, please make my house your home,
No. --      street.
" With great respect,
" I am truly your friend and servant in Christ,
" ,Tfarden."
There are some persons in the world, who will not
work right. They will be crooked, contrary, self-willed.
If you desire them to go this way, they will persist in

DOT"TINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.              79
going that. It is useless to ply them with reason, or the
gentle influence of persuasion ; this only makes then
worse, more unmanageable. They will be stubborn,
unruly, and defy all your efforts to mould them into any
thing but what they are, and that is every thing per-
verse and provoking. Tbore is but one word that ex-
actly fits the character of such,-mulish. This word is
exactly appropriate, and fills up every part of their
character. Whoever is conversant with the whimsies
of an old mule, or who has witnessed his stubborn an-
tics, will be able to appreciate the application.
Fancy yourself on a southern farm, on a hot summer's
day, about noon. In yonder corn-field, in full view of
the farm-house, you behold a negro boy at the handles
of a plough, drawn by a mule. The rows of coin,,to
which he is casting furrows, extend in a straight line to
within a few rods of the manger. His muleship comes
slowly along, in a patient, meditative mood.  The
plough-boy has a dull, drowsy look ; and, to keep his
eyes open, whistles a note which floats out on the still
air. And so they go along, shutting out all sublunary
things, and wrapt in their own philosophic meditations.
In this way they have proceeded, half the length of the
furrow, at the end of which they would be within a
stone's throw of the manger and the ample dinner of
his muleship. Presently, you see the cook take down
from a shelf a long tin horn to call the hands to their
dinner. "~ Toot ,-toot,--toot !" you hear the hour ring
out.
His muleship is done with philosophizing. He knows
what that sound means, as well as any onme. lie pricks
up his ears, and stops as suddenly as though a bullet

i(
{
' i
!
c       ;
1
r
it
+  {
,

l


f
Ejj:
t
QQQ t
f        C
i' 1t
a
1   "
i   l
f
'l#'
:,
+j
ti
+i
';i
{+il
i
.',
r
i
.s
'i
fii t
i
' 3
k
f t

had passed through his heart. "Go on, you Jack !"
says the driver. But Jack moves not. " Go on, You
sir !" and the driver gives him the line. But Jack puts
his head down,-sets his fore-feet firmly out. Jack will
not budge, another step. He must be relieved of his
harness just there. Nothing else can be done. He will
have his own way, right or wrong. It is useless to ar-
guee with him. He will not hear it.
One other illustration. Who has not heard of the
Dutchman, who, being urged into a good work with
arguments that he could not answer, after taxing his in
genuity to the utmost extent, cut the whole argument
short, with this significant and unanswerable reply, in
his own peculiar dialect? "It's no use to talk with me.
I'm a Dutchman, and you can't do any thin' with a
Dutchman." The point was yielded, the case incura-
ble.
And so, no amount of reasoning would have con-
vinced Mr. Blemmerton, of the impropriety of his course.
His eyes could see only in one direction. his horizon
was bounded by self-will, right or wrong. There was
to him but one world of thought, reason and opinion,-
that in which he himself moved,-as the sole guiding
and governing power. Therefore, after his display at
the Vestry meeting, and his signal defeat, he returned
to his home, more angered and chagrined, than mor-
tified.
Mrs. Blemmerton thought it preposterous. "Why,
how could they act so! Didn't even reply to your
speech, Mr. Blemmerton? It was certainly indicative of
one fact,-that it was unanswerable. But it was posi-
tivel y disrespectful. And voted a thousand dollars per

-DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

81

annum to Mrs. Goodenough, in case she should outlive
Dr. G.! Well, I think they have feathered their nests,
as old Aunt Sally Milkandwater would say. The other
was bad enough ; but, really, that caps the climax.
What will Mrs. Nochurch and Mrs. Fussy say to that? I
wonder who would give me a thousand dollars per an-
num in case I should be left a widow. And who's to
pay it all? It's easy enough for them who have no-
thing, to pass resolutions, but not quite so easy, I guess,
to raise money. Ah! that's the rub ! When they
haven't John Blemmerton's pocket to look to, I guess
they'll find themselves in a pickle. No, not one cent,
not one cent of it will go from this house ; that I'm fully
resolved on. And I'll not notice another of them.
They'll know who is who, I can tell them. Now I've
done,-my skirts are clear."
" Deliah Airmyth, you go round to-morrow morning
to Mrs. Charitas, the President of that sewing-society ;
and tell her, that I can't have them meet at my house
next week. No, no; no more favors from the Blem-
mertons. You need not tell her why. You know they
were to have met at Mrs. Hopeful's; but I insisted on
their meeting here, and it will look independent in me
to decline it. I guess they'll be for pressing it; but
remember, Dele, the law is passed. They can't meet
here. I don't want them. We will not be made foot-
balls of; and I guess we can get along, quite as well
without them, as they can without us. And now we'll
see who's the hardest. It is as much as I can do, to go
to church again. Indeed, they'll have to make apolo-
gies, or I'll take a pew in Dr. Ri proarer's Church !1
Draw the curtain. Close the scene. Let Mr. and

f

THE BLEMMERTONs; ORy

80


tj
1
fl
1111
'"ill
Jill
;= It
,
Hill
d!; f
i
1, I
IrE 3
ft i
1 I
p          1771
)eili
iii
7' ;

Mrs. Blemmerton sleep, if they can. They need it.
Perhaps they will feel better in the morning. This is a
world of sorrows and troubles ; but all things are shut
out and forgotten, in dream-land. Sweet is the pillow
of repose, to the throbbing temples and aching heart,
when purity and innocence are our companions. "IKeep
sound wisdon and discretion. Then shalt thou walk in
thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble. When
thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid; yea, thou
shalt lie down and thy sleep shall be sweet." Prov. iii.
21, 24. Holy type, unto the pure in heart, of their last
sleep 1--" For so he giveth His beloved sleep," until the
morning come when the dead bodies shall revive and be
animated again with the living soul. "If we believe
that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which
sleep in Jesus will God bring with him." 1 Thess.
iv. 14.
Put ah, the carping of pride, the wincing soreness
of ambition, the chafings of an evil heart,-these set
thorns in the pillow, making it a rack of torture in the
night-watches, bringing " fear" upon the wicked, and
" trembling," which make all their " bones to shake."
"Awake, thou that sleepest, and rise from the dead,
and Christ shall give thee light." Eph. v. 14.

CHAPTER VII.
MR. LOVEGOOD ; I1s HABITS AND HIS sANCTUM.
Mn. LOVEGOOD had as yet never married. Why he
had not, I cannot say. It certainly was not because he
was too young. In his younger days, he had cherished
a tender passion ; so, at least, I gathered, from a hint in
the conclusion of an old manuscript which he once per-
mitted me to read. " It is," said he, as he handed it to
me " as faithful a transcript of a dream I once had, as
my feeble pen could draw. It has been of service to
me through the years that have intervened, and it may
be of service to you."
It was headed:
"SINGULAR DREAM.
I stood, methought, at the base of a vast and singu-
larly beautiful mountain. As far up as the eye could
reach, it was covered with "living green." On its
pinnacle, I thought, stood* a vast temple, from whose
windows there streamed forth.floods of light, which en-
wrapped the whole mountain, and bathed it in beauty.
From that great temple, inethought, all the wonders of
vast creation opened to the view ; worlds upon worlds
wheeling in their orbits, through the immensity of
space. And thence issued strains of music, unknown to
earth, which floated out on the air, and fell gently on
my ears, as from the harpings of the heavenly hosts. I

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

82

83

TilE BLEMMERTONS; OR,


,.t
ii

THE BLEMMERTONs; ORI

was striving at its base, to ascend that beautiful moin-
tain,-but to no purpose. I could make no progress.
But 0, how ardently my soul longed for the transcend-
ent glories of that vast temple, its unearthly music, its
enrapturing revelations !
Presently, I turned in another direction ; and there,
before me, planted firmly in the earth, stood a tall pole,
like the mast of a ship, but not quite so large,-"smooth,
glassy, and pointing towards the heavens, at an angle
of about forty-five degrees. Something whispered to
me, "that if I could ascend that pole, from its pinnacle
I could plant my feet on the beautiful mountain."
" But," said I, " it is too smooth,-I never can succeed;
and then, it points not towards the mountain."  A
whisper was heard again: "Try,-there is only an
illusion; when you get to the top, you will perceive
that all is well."  I made the attempt. I ascended
rapidly, and with great facility. I had never thought
it possible, that I could perform such a feat. As I went
gayly up, I revolved the thought in my mind. I re-
flected how I had often admired the facility with
which seamen ,mounted the ropes and masts,-and was
it possible that I had grown so expert? Away I went,
up, up, from the earth.
Suddenly my head grew dizzy, I cast my eyes to-
wards the earth ; and oh, horrors ! I hung suspended
high above a vast abyss, profound, dark, still as the
shades of death. The solid earth had fled. And there
I hung, upon that smooth, glassy pole, over eternity!
Oh, the terror, the agony, of that moment ! Never
shall it vanish from my memory. Whither had I
gone,-whither in that fathomless profound, should Ibe

84

- oTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.          .5
cast? Should I ever again behold the regions of light,
or mingle with kindred spirits ? I essayed to cry
aloud ; but speech was denied me. Nor was there an
ear to hear ; for, could I have spoken, it would only
have been to "the blackness of darkness," and my cry
would have reverberated forever throughout that
fathomless abyss.
My limbs quivered, my head swam with the deliri-
um of that awful inoment,-my hold relaxed ; I must
launch out on that dark, illimitable ocean ! " 0 Father
of mercies and God of all comfort !" I cried, "have
mercy on me! Saviour of the world, save me !" In a
moment, consciousness is gone,-all is over ! Oh! field
of' darkness ! world without light and without bounds,
whither shall I fly, whither be cast? In a moment,
that dread ordeal is past,-how, I know not. But
lo! I stand again on the solid earth, and there, be-
fore me, is that dreaded, awful pole. Again, the same
voice whispers : " Try again, it requires courage. You
can ascend." " No, never, never !" I exclaimed, with
faltering tongue and shuddering heart. "Never shall
I again pass that lifetime of agony. My soul stands in
awe of that terror." The voice ceasbLd. I turned away.
Once more I stood at the base of the beautiful moun-
tain;--once more I essayed to make its ascent. Now I
am some rods up. I look aloft, the way seems easy ; the
same glorious light plays over the whole mountain, the
same heavenly strains float around me ; yet, with all my
agonizing struggles, I make but little progress. I pant,
and grow weary, and pause, almost in despair; but
still longing for the glories above, that beckon me on,
as so many "signals hung out from on high." And

:,,f.
y s'  "
i
i
j
aiE7
a  ' ,
3 ; +
i F
fi
#"; F
il it
. # ;j
i sl''
,
{                 '
I            I    }
I
+
i '
;1111 ,£
i.
,, ;i
,
, ,
t
(  }  ,
y' '!
its

t
i
i  ''
4 f !


is
{it
pt;1

THE BLEMMEETONS; OR,

then I hear another voice,-0, how sweet, how gentle,
how heavenly !-" FAITH, FAITH !" it said. That word
yet rings in my ears, and thrills my heart. " Why toil
on here so slowly, now ascending, now receding? Faith,
faith will lift thee to that glorious tower. ' Stand, there-
fore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having
on the breastplate of righteousness; and your feet shod
with the preparation of the Gospel of peace ; above all,
taking the shield of Faith,' Eph. vi. 14, etc., so shalt
thou climb that towering mountain ; and there are an-
gels going up and clown from the throne of.God, to
guide and guard thee. Go on, struggling mortal. Faith
will bear thee upwards." And on I went, new beauties
at every step opening upon my enravished eyes,-"my
soul breaking out for the very fervent desire that it had"
to the delights of that glorious temple towards which I
was pressing. -    . . . . I awoke. The vision
was gone !*
But there was left to me the treasure of a heavenly
lesson. The first voice was that of the Tempter, who
promises liberally, but deceives unto eternal death.
For that smooth, glassy pole, which appears to me now
so singular, I could never find a fitting analogy, unless
its smoothness, and the ease with which I ascended it,
and the great difficulty of clinging to it when once I
grew dizzy, typified the way of sin, which leads to the
abodes of woe, and the slender tenure on eternal lifc
that they have, whose feet stand not fast on the beauti-
ful mountain, and are not "shod with the prepara-
tion of the Gospel of peace."  But ah! that dread
, This is no further imagination, than an actual dream is imagina-
tion-.

86

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.
abyss,-there is no mistaking that,-it was that world
of darkness, where the light of God's countenance
cometh not.
The beautiful mountain, I think, was the Church mili-
tant ; and it, and the temple which crowned it above,
typified the Church militant and triumphant,-the
Christian's pathway to eternal glory, and the beatific
visions and glories of that house not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens. 0 my soul, shout for joy,
break forth into singing, that thou art redeemed,-that
thy feet stand upon that glorious mountain, "which fill-
eth the earth," and reacheth even unto that living
Temple, where the "King" eternal "reigns in His beau-
ty," and the angels harp their heavenly notes, and re-
deemed men shall make glad the city of our God.
Faith lifts my soul to God. Faith assures me, that I
may climb that beautiful mountain, and at last behold
that glorious Temple, enter its courts, and dwell forever
in the presence and joy of Him who is the light and
glory thereof. Faith assures me, that there, in that
land of blessedness, purity, and love, I shall join
the loved and the lost, where naught will enter to
blight the felicity that shall be sanctified, heavenly,
beatific.
Ah! loved one, I see thee now, as I saw thee in thy
flush of life and prime of beauty! "The Lord gave,
and the Lord hath taken away ; blessed be the name
of the Lord."
So the manuscript ended. I almost regretted read-
ing the concluding sentence, for I thought that the au-
thor was perhaps unconscious of its being there, and

i3'
.x  1
i
' ' i
t ,;
!' t
T":
's
,
,
,r
;y,,'f'
'  f'{'S   1
'  ,
.
t

33 't{
fig   7
,i
1
i
1   , 2
it
f r
i
-  -   f{{
:, E
4+.ifi
:
d


s# y F
[[6r         }
i ft lHl; i
I;f{4  qq
+ If
#!
Lill
j{If{ {
r;s IE
#',1 tl
'55:11 1
1,4 1
qfE E, t
s     {
il
+i 'fit 4
NE
it
y r fi
low
t= ,i t

THE BLEMMERToNs; OR,

had unwittingly revealed to me a heart-secret of his
younger days, into which I would upon no account have
irreverently gazed. " The heart knoweth his own bit-
terness; and a stranger doth not intermeddle with his
joy. "-Prov. xiv. 10. I returned to him the manu-
script, without comment or question.
"Jonathan," said he, "it is a true picture. I penned
it the next morning. But oh ! words are inadequate
to describe what I passed through, either of the agonies
or of the joys of that dream. Would that I could find
language in which to depict the contrasts in my feel-
ings, as I hung suspended over that awful eternity ; and
then, in the next moment, as I listened to those enrap-
turing strains, lived in the heavenly light, and joyfully
mounted up on high to that beautiful temple ! But, let
it pass. Without doubt,-I say it of hope, I say it of
Faith alone, after the manner of him who once ex-
claimed : 'For I am persuaded that neither death, nor
life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things
present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor
any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the
love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.' Rom.
viii. 38, etc. Without doubt, after I shall have passed
through the valley of the shadow of death, leaning on
the 'staff,' and protected by the 'rod' of Immanuel, I
shall stand upon the beautiful mountain beyond, behold
that glorious vision in reality,-' see the King in His
beauty,' in 'the land that is very far off,' and be forever
satisfied, when I awake with His likeness,' in His
presence and glory."
Mr. Lovegood was now in his fortieth year; and,
th ough of a very sprightly, elastic disposition, fond of

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

young company, and all that constitutes the charm  of
social intercourse,--its amenities, suavities, and innocent
jocoseness,-yet was there, at times, a touch of melan-
choly pervading his carriage and manners. But this
was like the last softening touch of the artist to the
painting,-it embalmed, as it were, his whole character,
and rendered him altogether lovely and attractive.
lIe boards with a cherished parishioner in Heartful-
ville ; but, in a quiet part of the village he has his
sanctum, a lovely, poetic, sanctified home, where at
almost all hours of the day you may find him engaged,
either in reading or writing. If lie is out on parochial
duty, you will find a slate hanging at his door, telling
you where he may be found, if your business is urgent,
or when he will be at the study. If you tarry, you
will be sure to see him at the appointed hour, walking,
cane in hand, slowly down the street. If he sees you
waiting in the distance, lie takes out his watch, inspects
it, and, if the hour has arrived, quickens his pace;
if not, he pursues the even tenor of his way,-seem-
ing to say, " There is no hurry ; I am as good as my
wcord."
You would like to take a view of that enchanting
spot,-his study. We'll walk round. This way, if you
please. He is not in the study now. I know his duties
and his habits. He has gone upon the hill yonder, to
see old blind Judy, a free colored woman, who is one
of his alms-pensioners. This is his day to visit her, and
contribute of his alms to her necessities. With old
Judy he spends an hour. It is, he says, one of his most
delightful and sanctified duties : during that hour, they
talk about the olden time, when her good old master

88

89


90         THu   BLEMMERTONS; on
was alive, and how he stood sponsor for all her children
and grandchildren; they extol his virtues, and together
mingle their tears to his memory,-the seeing and the
sightless ! From this, their conversation would neces-
sarily run out upon religion and the Church, two things
inseparable in their estimation; and the day when "the
silver cord" would "be loosed," and they would "g(o
to their long home," and the " mourners go about'the
streets ;" and that last great day, when "living saints
and dead" shall stand in the " circle of the redeemed,"
before the Son of Man. Happy pastor! Happy old
woman ! Thou shalt receive thy crown, and the blessed
commendation, "Well done, good and faithful servant,
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."  And thou, sight-,
less, shalt yet see with thine eyes the glory of God,
and shalt dwell in his presence !
It is a pleasant, balmy day in summer. The full-
leaved elms, which adorn the streets of the village,
protect us from the rays of the sun, and impart a re-
freshing coolness to the atmosphere. There, tread
lightly now, if you please, for, somehow, I feel, when I
approach this place, as though I stood on holy ground.
Every thing here is sanctified,-the trees, the birds, the
flowers, all are holy. We pause at the wicker-gate,
which opens on the gravel pathway that leads to the
door of the sanctum,-that, in its meek beauty, retires
some rods from the street, and stands in the centre of a
plot about fifty yards square, which is inclosed by a
plain, neat plank fence, recently whitewashed, and
which looks as pure as the driven snow.
A row of forest elms and maples, each standing as a
sentinel in its place, closes the external view. A

it,
VJr
l ]t

DOT'TINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.              91
monthly rose, clustering over and around the door, ex-
tends its branches on both sides, along the wall, which
fall in varying festoons to the ground. Embowered in
the branches of this rose, you will discover several
little houses, the work of Mr. L.'s hands, for the wrens;
and you will see the parent birds, darting about, chat-
tering away, full of glee, as they fulfil the pleasant
duty of feeding their young. And the little humming-
birds will be playing at hide-and-seek with the honey-
suckles. They'll dart up, take a kiss here and there,
and in a moment they are off,-away, away,-hum,
hum,-buzz, buzz,-they are gone, to dip their bills into
the cup of some other flower, and suck its ambrosia.
A row, on either side, of neatly-trimmed box, binds
the gravel walk, while, right and left, over the whole
plot,--a smoothly mown lawn,-roses of a hundred
choice varieties, as if of Nature's planting, are inter-
spersed ;-and the sweet jessamine, the gorgeous dahlia,
the rich piony, the honeysuckle,
"Flowers worthy of Paradise,"
reveal their budding and blooming beauties, regale the
air with their fragrance, and lift up the heart to God.
From the top of yonder eln, a mocking-bird, as free
as the air he breathes, trills his notes,-now plaintive,
now sharp, now a bass, now a tenor,-imitating the
feathered tribe, amusing himself over their foibles or
their beauties, in the singing art, in shaips and flats, or
quavers and semiquavers. A funny little fellow is he.
He is a confirmed mocker,-mocks every thing, and
makes himself jlly with his sport. Sing on, beautiful
bird ! There are no cages here. Mr. Lovegood abom-
inates cages.


{i{{irrt
ifs
t'(((
tt(f
H,
et (  e99
t   (  t
t4t fJ i
i +td It
( i tej
fit t8 e1
'hit
F 'P
slx ' ;+
! 4a
1 {p 6+
ry
,F
j  F a}t
}.  dt

TE BLEMMERToNS; OR,

The birds seem to be aware of this ; therefore they
pay him tribute from the trees and branches, warbling
out their Maker's praise. And this is Mr. Lovegood's
sanctum. But you cannot enter now. There hangs the
slate,-five o'clock, it says. We have yet fifteen min-
utes.  We saunter about, enjoy a pleasant revere y,
pluck a rose-bud,-it's ahost a sacrilege, for it is one
of the richest Luxemburgs,-listen to the song of the
mocking and the warble of the little wrens.
Nature teaches tI   Gospel of glad tidings of good
things, and oh, how all things here tell of harmony,
peace, and love ! Here may the soul hold sweet coin-
munion with its Creator and Redeemer, and mount on
the wings of faith to those bright regions, where are
forever heard the harpings of heavenly ninistrels. Eden,
the blessed abode of our first parents ere they sinned,
was a garden, and all such spots seem to be types of in-
nocence and beauty. The thorn and the thistle sprang
up, indeed, after the fall; but still the Lord permitted
the flowers to remain and bloom, types, as it were, of
Eden regained, and its perennial joys. Eden was a
garden interspersed with the choicest flowers and shrub-
bery, that made glad the heart ; and there, methinks,
" From rise of morn till set of sun,"
the sweetest of the feathered songsters poured forth
their notes of praise to their Creator.
" Flowers of all hue, and without thorn the rose,"
there bloomed, and

j .
1

"The birds their choir apply : airs, vernal airs,
Breathing the smell of field and grove, attune
The trembling leaves."
MILTON.

It is five o'clock. Here comes Mr. Lovegood. A
cordial shake of the hand, a soul-stirring "God bless
you," which thrills through your heart, makes you feel
at home. The key turns in the door, you enter; it is
the study of a bachelor; not over-neat; for there is
some confusion of books and papers about the desk,-.
but this Mr. Lovegood, somehow, cannot avoid ; it
seems to be natural to him,-about such matters, he
is not a " pink of perfection." But he understands
every thing, just as it is. Were you to remove or alter
the position of a book or paper, it would disarrange all
his plans, perhaps all his thoughts ; for they are wrap-
ped up in those scattered leaves of manuscript, just as
they lie. You need not be uneasy, his sermon will
come out all right ; and in time, on Sunday morning;
and you will learn something from it.
His library is well stored with works on theology,
history, law, medicine, science, the classics, and choice
literature : indeed, there is something on every subject
of general utility to man. The books are carefully as-
sorted, numbered, and placed in order on the shelves
round the room. The floor is covered with matting,-
there are half a dozen cane-bottom chairs, scattered
promiscuously about the room ; two old-fashioned, wal-
nut arm-chairs, with time-worn cushions ; a coat and
hat rack, cane and umbrella stand, keep guard at the
door. A study-gown of oil-chintz hangs from a rack
on the wall; and, here and there, all round the room,
are hung some choice -old paintings, and portraits of de-
ceased Bishops, and other cherished clergymen. A
pair of boots and slippers lie on the window-sill; an old
lounge or sofa completes the list of internal arrange,

93

#p_ '

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

92


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  9

j~~i

termingles some mirth in his discourses occasionally,
according to the pulse of the hearer."
So sung and wrote sweet George Herbert, whose
memory lives, and is cherished in all hearts that have
learned his name and his virtues. Beautiful in life,
beautiful in death, how fragrant is thy memory !
" All must to their cold graves :
But the religious actions of the just
Smell sweet in death, and blossom in the dust."
WALTON'S Life of Herbert.

ments.   The windows are hoisted, the pure, fresh air
streams in through the slat blinds, bearing on its wing
the balm of sward and flower. And here Mr. Love-
good reads, thinks, meditates, writes, laughs, sings,
prays, and gives thanks.
" Lord, how can man preach Thy eternal word?
He is a brittle, crazy glass :
Yet in Thy temple Thou dost him afford
This glorious and transcendent place
To be a window, through Thy grace.
" But when Thou dost anneal in glass Thy story,
Making Thy life to shine within
The holy preacher's ; then the light and glory
More rev'rend grows, and more doth win
Which else shows wat'rish, bleak, and thin.
" Doctrine and life, colors and light, in one,
When they combine and mingle, bring
A strong regard and awe: but speech alone
Doth vanish like a flaring thing ;
And in the ear, not conscience, sing."
" The country parson is generally sad, because he
knows nothing but the cross of Christ; his mind being
fixed on it with those nails wherewith his Master was.
Or, if he have any leisure to look off from thence, he
meets continually with two most sad spectacles,-sin
and misery ; God dishonored every day, and man af-
flicted. Nevertheless; he sometimes refresheth himself
as knowing that nature will not bear everlasting droop-
ings, and that pleasantness of disposition is a great key
to do good: not only because all men shun the compa-
ny of perpetual severity; but also that, when they are
in company, instructions seasoned with pleasantness both
enter sooner and root deeper, wherefore he condescends
to human frailties, both in himself and others ; and in-

V

.F Y
G

94

95

THE BLEMMERTONS; ORS


96

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

CHAPTER VIII.
A CURT LETTER;  A FoX-fHUNT; FOXISH PEOPLE; AS
CUNNTNG AS A FOX.
WE are scarcely seated in Mr. Lovegood's study,
when a little colored boy comes up the gravel walk.
He pauses at the door, standing, hat in hand, on one
side, and leering in round the casement of the door.
Come in, Jim."
Jim was the grandchild of old Aunt Judy, was a sort
of pet with Mr. Lovegood, and now filled to him the
important and dignified post of "right-hand-man;"
blackened his boots, brought him water, and watched
the mails. This last office Jim especially delighted in.
It had a biggish look about it ; and it was really
amusing to see him swagger about the door of the post-
office, arms a-kimbo, and putting on all the airs that so
dignified a position required and warranted !
" Come in, Jim. What news have you to-day ?"
Jim came up smiling, and handed him a letter. It
proved to be the aforesaid epistle of Mr. Blemmerton.
"John Blemmerton !" ejaculated he,-" John Blem-
merton ! -St. -'s Church, --. Well, that is soon
answered." So, turning to his desk, he wrote the fol-
lowing reply:
"HIEARTFULVILLE, NOV. -, 18-.-
"My dear Sir :--I have to acknowledge the receipt
of your kind favor. Entertaining the views, on the

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             97
subject-matter of your letter, that I do, and which an
experience of eighteen years has confirmed me in, I
beg, most respectfully, to decline a compliance with
your request.
"IYours very faithfully, etc.
" JOHN BLEMMERTON, Esq."
"There, Jim, you are a smart boy,-negatively smart,
that is; run with that letter to the office, mail it, and
then go home to Grandmamma Judy. I shall not want
you again to-night." And away went Jim, whistling,
down the gravel walk.
Mr. Blemmerton will soon know that, whether ho
understands human nature better than Mr. Heartful or
not, Mr. Lovegood will not gratify him with a display
of his powers in a trial sermon.
Mr. Lovegood calls after Jim, as he passes out at the
gate :-" Mind, Jim, that the horns and the hounds do
not keep you away so late again in the morning !"
And then turning to us, he explains that there was a
fox-hunt yesterday morning, in which some gentlemen
of the village took part; and, as they rode out in the
morning, Jim followed them so far down the road, that
he did not get back until late in the day. Our friend
from the city is very much interested,-his curiosity is
at once excited. "Do tell me something about a fox-
"Well, when I was a boy, like all other boys, I was
fond of fun. But I was not given to cruelty. And yet
I was exceedingly fond of the fox-chase, which would
indeed have been cruel, had there not been an induce-
mient, more rational and proper than the mere pleasur-
5

i


98

THE BLE-MMERTONs; ORl,

able excitement attending it. We must reflect, then,
that foxes are very destructive to poultry and young
stock; especially are they prone to prowl about at
night, stealing and killing lambs and pigs. In my
father's neighborhood, they had a custom of hunting
the fox; and this, not simply for sport,-and yet I must
acknowledge, that to us boys it was a great treat in
that line,-but to rid the neighborhood of a dangerous
foe. The moment a lamb or pig was stolen, the alarm
was given to all the neighboring gentry. A fox is
about; and there must be no rest till he is ferreted out.
A party is arranged ; and, early on the following
morning, while the dew scents the air, or the frost
glitters in the rays of the rising sun, you hear the blast
of the huntsman's horn,-the hounds howl and bark.
And here we go, each from his home, mounted on a
swift steed, eager for the chase,-for he understands
what is going on, as well as the rider or the clogs, and
takes as much delight in it. The hounds run helter-
skelter to the horn, and the riders follow on.
"When all have arrived at the place of rendezvous,
by appointment, the hounds, a full pack, and well
trained, are sent out into the thickets and forests. They
scatter about, hither and thither, scenting the air,-
and so away we go, scouring through the forests,
mounting fences, leaping ditches, in full glee, encour-
aging the hounds !-Presently, away off in the distance,.
you hear an opening note. ' Hark-hark !'-says the
huntsman; and riders and hounds all dash off in the
direction of that opening note. ' Blixen has struck the
scent,-has roused old Reynard from his den, or hiding-
place. All the hounds gather around; and each, as

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              99
he catches the scent, gives out his answering note.
Old 'Blazer' is the leader. Hurra for Blazer! Go on,
Blazer! 'Bow-ow!' he says; and, with his head set
out, away he dashes. The pack fall in behind in a
row; and then commences the music. Ever and anon
you hear old 'Blazer's' bow-ow,-he drawls it out, and
it rings over the hills, far away,--and then they are in
full chase and full cry, high notes and low, tenor and
bass. All seem to fall into time ; and the welkin rings
with hound- music! And so away they dash. The
steeds prick their ears ; and away we press,-now
whooping,-now cheering. The riders, perchance,
separate and scatter, here and there, to get the best
opportunity to witness the chase, or rise to thwart old
Reynard in his wily tricks.
" We will spur up to the top of yonder hill; there
we shall have a view, for miles around. Hark! see !
there goes Reynard, stretching across yon open field.
'Bow-ow !' says old Blazer, some mile or two behind,
but coming on the track; and he is answered by the
full pack,-' Bow-ow, Bow-ow !'.-and the notes run up
and down, and zig-zag, but all seeming to fall into the
right key and the right time. You have heard the
saying, 'As cunning as a fox?' It is one of our pro-
verbialisms. Now watch! Reynard deliberately squats
on his haunches,-pricks up his ears,--turns his head,-
looks back,-listens attentively. You had supposed
that he was about to clear the open field, for the next
forest. Not so. He turns short on his heel, makes
a right angle, and comes back to the same forest!
"Now you say, ' Call Blazer, and put him right after
him.' No, no ; Blazer knows what to do, better than

Al

1I

3J
11
/
((
{
,
,
1
,


100     THE BLEMMERTONS; ORI

you.  Watch on. Here he comes, dashing on over
the field. 'Bow-ow ;' another and another behind him
answer, 'BoW-ow.' Reynard is now out of sight, and
down far into the next valley. Blazer dashes on. 'Ahi!,
you exclaim, 'lhe has passed the point where Reynard
paused and turned ! Never mind ; watch Blazer ; his
head is erect, snuffing the air. He has lost the trail.
Here is a trouble. Reynard is going for his life, we
know not whither.
" Blazer whirls about, takes a compass, runs a circle,
and presently 'Bow-ow,' he says; away he goes, and
there is a fresh outcry from the whole pack.
" 'Now,' you say, 'dash on, follow on ; let's keep
up with them !' No, we will remain here, and see
more of the chase. 'But Reynard,' you say, 'has made
a clean track.  He will not come this way again.'
We will wait. The 'Bow-ow, dies off, away in the dis-
tance.  'They are miles off,' you say. Very well, we
shall see the chase. Presently you hear a fresh outcry.
Reynard has been at his old trick of doubling again.
Be patient,-listen ! There is a rustling, as of a light
foot in the leaves, away above you. There he goes;
and he dashes right on, to the same track that he passed
over at first. But, instead of running in the same di-
rection, he dashes on in the opposite, and runs back
on his old' track.  Again he is out of sight.  You
grow very impatient. But here come the pack. You
hear them ring out, ever and anon, away down the
forest. The notes are nearer and nearer.
"'They dash out of the forest, on Reynard's track.
Dash on,-dash on! Hold, there is a break! Which
way now? 'Can't you direct them?'-No;go on,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              101
Blazer.  Hark !-Dash   on,-heigh-ho!   And away
Blazer goes on the back-track, and Blixen in the former
direction, each followed by a posse. Watch on, they'll
soon let you know (if you do not already) which way
Reynard has gone. They are both silent, both intent
on their task, giving out an occasional half-note. Pres-
ently you hear the exultant announcement from Blazer,
-' Bow-ow ! bow-ow !' lie is satisfied that lie has it.
Reynard is at a trick again. Blixen, with his posse,
hurries back; and they bring up the rear, and away
they go again.  And Reynarcl dodges and quibbles in
this way, sometimes a whole day before he is taken.
Sometimes, he eludes all attempts, and escapes; some-
times, instead of forming an angle, he will run round a
hill in a circle, and run back on his old track. Some-
times, he will mount a fence, scramble along it a while,
and then spring off as far as he can. Sometimes, he
will run into a den, immediately run out, retrace his
steps a little way, and. -then bolt off in another direction.
Any manomvre to gain time, and puzzle the hounds.
But, an expert, well-trained leader in a pack, under-
stands Reynard's cunning, and soon ferrets out his
movements.
" ' As cunning as a fox,' is a very expressive saying.
As used among us, it has the signification of low cun-
ninfg, trickiness, underhand dealing; and is generally
used in a bad sense. And you see its prototype in the
luibblings, pietences, and wiles of Reynard, whose
every effort is to take an advantage. But, in his case,
we opine that this is not dishonorable, nor to his dis-
credit,-but a stroke of sound wisdom and good policy.
Indeed, I highly applaud him as a wise master ; for he


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.  103

is managing and manoeuvring for his life. But it is
widely different in its application to men, who are said
to be 'as cunning as a fox;' for, in that case, it bears
the sense of secret, crafty cunningness and shrewdness,
by which a dishonorable, unlawful advantage is taken
of another."
"Hence," continued Mr. Lovegood, "we learn a les-
son, from all this, simple, childlike as it may appear.
From the simplest things in nature, the commonplaces
of life, the wild beasts of the forest, may man learn
wisdom. Our Lord in His teachings turned all these
to account. He commanded His Apostles to be 'wise
as serpents, and harmless as doves,' Matt. x.16 ; where-
in He sets forth the serpent as an emblem of prudence,
and the dove of harmlessness. The Apostles were sent
forth 'as sheep in the midst of wolves,' in an employ-
ment full of peril. They were, therefore, cautioned Th
be as wary as the serpent, in preserving themselves
from danger; and as harmless as the dove, in giving
offence.
"'Now, if the simplicity of doves,' says St. Augus-
tine, ' be enjoined on us, what hath the wisdom of the
serpent to do in the simplicity of the dove? This in
the dove I love, that she has no gall; this I fear in the
serpent, that he has poison. But now do not fear the
serpent altogether. Something he has for thee to hate,
and something for thee to imitate; for, when the ser-
pent is weighed down with age, and he feels the burden
of his many years, he contracts and forces himself into
a hole, and lays aside his old coat of skin, that he may
spring forth into new life.
" 'Imitate him in this, thou Christian, who dost hear

Christ saying: Enter ye in at the strait gate. And
the Apostle Paul saith to thee : Put ye of the old man,
with his deeds, and put ye on the new man. Thou
hast, then, something to imitate in the serp~ent. . ....
Imitate him in this again : Keep thy head safe. Keep
Christ with thee. Have not some of you, it may be,
observed, on occasions when you have wished to kill an
adder, that, to save his head, he will expose his whole
body to the strokes of his assailant? He would not,
that that part of him should be struck where he knows
that his life resides. And our life is Christ ; for, he
hatli Himself said, I am the Way, the Truth, and the
Life. Hear the Apostle also : 2he Head of the man
is christ. Whoso, then, keepeth Christ in him, keep-
eth his head for his protection.
"'Now, what need is there to commend to you, in
many words, the simplicity of the dove? The serpent's
poison must be guarded against: then, there was a danger
in imitation ; then, there was something to be feared;
but the dove you may imitate securely. Mark how the
doves rejoice in society. Everywhere do they fly and
feed together; they do not like to be alone. They de-
light in communion ; they preserve affection ; their
comings are the plaintive cries of love. Yea, even when
doves, as we have often noticed, dispute about their holes,
it is as it were but a peaceful strife. Do they separate,
because of their contentions ? Nay, still do they fly
and feed together; and their very strife is peaceful.
See this strife of doves, in what the Apostle saith,
2 Thess. iii. 14,-If a'ny man obey not our word by
this Epistle, marks that man, and have no company
with him. Behold the strife! but o serve, now, how

1.02   THEBLEMMERTONS; OR


104    THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

it is the strife of cloves, not of wolves. He subjoined
immediately, Yet count him not as an enemy, but ad-
monish him as a brother. The dove loves, even when
she is in strife; and the wolf, even when he caresses,
hates; therefore, having the simplicity of doves, and
the wisdom   of serpents, sing lands to God. le it
is who will crown us.'* . So beautifully writes St. Au-
gustine.
" And the fox our Lord has set forth, as an emblem of
treachery and double-dealing.   'Go and tell that fox,
(Herod,) Behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures to-
day and to-morrow, and the third day I shall be per-
fected,' Luke xiii. 32. To impose this ignominious, but
appropriate name on Herod, is not contrary to the com-
mand, 'not to speak evil of the ruler of thy people ;' it
being the office of the prophet, not to spare kings,
when they reprove their offences, Jer. i. 10. Our Lord,
therefore, here uses his prophetical power, in giving
this tyrant a name suitable to his actions.t And you
have only to ponder the history of the man, as you
will find it portrayed by Josephus and Tacitus, to dis-
cover the aptness of the title appropriated to him by
our Lord.
" He was 'a cruel and despotic man,' full of all sub-
tlety and guile; one 'who had waded through blood to the
seat of power' that he filled. And I know of no point
from which to view his character, and continue my
moral, so appropriate as that afforded by Scripture,
St. Augustine, Homn. 14.  .t Whitby.
I have blended the character of two Herods into one ; for, there
is no great difference between them. He of St. Matthew, ii. 3, is
Herod the Great; while he of St. Luke, xiii. 82, is Herod Antipas.

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             105
when the wise men brought to Jerusalem the news of
the Saviour's birth. ' When Herod the king had heard
these things, he was troubled.' Matt. ii. 3. The fox
feared for his safety, and began to cast about for
means to avoid. a catastrophe! Did he quake and
tremble at the thought, that his sins would find him
out? Ah, no : he was filled with terror; not that he
had sinned ; not that his conscience, black and guilty
as it was, had smitten him with grief and shame ; not
that be feared the terrors of a judgment to come ; but
he trembled and was filed with trouble because a
KING was born. He looked to his crown ; for this he
feared. 'Where is he that is born King of the Jews?'
rang in his ears, as the death-knell of his departing
power. He felt already (or fancied that he did) his
throne tottering under him. Fear seized upon his cow-
ard' heart ; he felt as though there was no time to be
lost, and that at all hazards he must maintain his seat of
honor and power. And now behold how sin begets sin.
Like Pharaoh, he was wholly given up to his base lusts
and passions. He had reached the height of power,
through intrigue and blood ; and, by the same means,
he determined to maintain it.
" And now craft, subtlety, and deceit are brought into
full exercise, to enable him to accomplish his unholy pur-
poses.. He cares only for himself; he has certain aims and
ends to accomplish. His own base heart urged him on
to baser deeds; and the blood of the Holy Innocents
flows, to fill the measure of his iniquity! His ruling
sin was a lust of power. That passion chafed and goad-
ed his heart, until it produced a brood of sins of an-
other character. Flattery, deception, and cruelty, had


106     THE BLEMMERToNS; oR,

marked his steps ; and woe and misery followed in his
wake. Now we find him filled with false apprehen-
sions, and groundless fears. Out of these grew bitter
jealousies and animosities. He had, in short, become a
prey to the basest and most tormenting passions. The
bare mention, that a ' king is born' filled him with ire ;
and, without pausing to. inquire into the nature of the
Kingdom that Christ would establish, he 'was troubled,'
lest he should be forced to surrender his usurped power to
other hands. And this led to a still baser jealousy of,
and animosity against, the unknown child whom the
wise men sought, and urged him on to the effort
that he made to destroy 'The Babe of Bethlehem.'
Little knew he of the kingdom that the Messiah
would establish. Had he paused awhile, he might
have learned, that his fears were groundless, and have
been kept from that great crime which filled all Beth-
lehem and the region round with lamentation.*
" Herod, doubtless, had laid some secret plot for our
Lord's destruction. Hence the warning of some of the
Pharisees, 'Get thee out, and depart hence, for Herod
will kill thee.' They knew his disposition; that, like
the cunning fox, he was full of stealth and intrigue.
Hence our Lord appropriates to him the title, 'That
fox.'
"The prophet Ezekiel compares the false, treacher-
ous prophets of Israel to foxes. ' 0 Israel, thy proph-
ets are like the foxes in the deserts.' Ezek. xiii. 4.-
'Deceitful workers,' 2 Cor. xi. 13, as the Apostle styles
* The author's article, entitled "Epiphany," in the February No.
of the Evergreen, 1849.

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYsIDE.              107
such persons, who craftily insinuate false doctrines into
weak and unstable minds ; and withal hungry and
ravenous, and such as catch greedily at any appearance
of advantage. ' There is a conspiracy of her prophets
in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the
prey; they have devoured souls ; they have taken the
treasure and precious things; they have made her
many widows in the midst thereof.' Ezek. xxii. 25.
And Solomon, Song ii. 15, has these words : ' Take us
the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the vines : for our
vines have tender grapes.'
"And since, as we have seen, the prophet Ezekiel
compares false prophets to foxes, may it not be that the
wise man, in his song of loves, in the words just quoted,
alludes to false teachers in his Spouse the Church? It
is so understood by the connnentators. False teachers
appeared very early in the Church, and are therefore
compared to young foxes, in regard to their known
craft and subtlety, windings and turnings, shiftings and
evasions, whereby the more simple sort especially, and
such as were newly converted, (compared here to ten-
der grapes, as the Church itself is to a vine,) were in dan-
ger of being undone, unless timely care was taken to
prevent it. And therefore this verse seems to be an
answer to the Church's prayers, flying to her Lord for
refuge, who, seeing that her danger is not greater from
tyranny than from false teachers, calls upon the Apos-
tles, Bishops, and Pastors of the Church,' to seek for
them, and to take them, or expose them, in their
craftiness. And that, while they were young,-before
they had gained strength and power; otherwise, their
'vain babblings' would ' increase unto- more ungodhi-


THE 1BLEM[MERiTO Ns; OR,

ness,' and their words ' eat as doth a canker.' 2 Tai.
ii. 16,17. Especially, when the Church was but newly
planted, and those seducers applied themselves chiefly
to such as but recently received the Faith; or to weak
and unsettled people, who were easily caught by them,
unless great care were taken to discover their frauds,
and to confute their sophistry. 'Twas the taking of
thesefoxes, as Theodoret expounds it, and S. Bernard
also; who observes, that he saith, 'Take to us the foxes,'
i. e. Sibi et Sponste,-unto Himself and to His Spouse.
As much as to say, If it be possible, let them be recon-
ciled to the Holy Church, and brought back to the true
faith.
" If that could not be, then other methods succeeded;
and the Apostle delivered 2p such dangerous deceivers
unto Satan, which was a punishment that included in it
bodily affliction, that they might learn not to blas-
pheme. 1 Tim. i., etc.* 'All Scripture is given by in-
spiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for re-
proof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness;
that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly fur-
nished unto all good works.' 2 Tim. iii. 16. 'And a
certain scribe came and said unto him, Master, I will
follow Thee whithersoever Thou goest. And Jesus
saith unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of
the air have nests; but the Son of Man hath not where
to lay his head.' Matt. viii. 19, 20. He, the Lord and
Creator, had so humbled Himself for man's sake, as to
become poorer than the foxes and the birds of the air!
He, who 'openeth His hand, and filleth all things liv-
a Bishop Patrick's Commentary.

108

L_

ing with plenteousness; who 'feedeth the young ravens
that cry unto Him,' had not whereon to lay His head,
in the world of His own creation. 0 wondrous humil-
ity ! 0 transcendent love! that thus, through poverty,
shame, and suffering, hath opened to man, lost and
uined, the glories of Heaven, and the reconciled
countenance of his Creator in His eternal dwelling-
place !'

I,
D

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

109


110     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

CHAPTER IX.
MR. BLEMMERTON DOING A HARD THING. A SURPRISE, THAT
DOES NOT SET WELL. MR. FRIENDLY.
A rEw days after the sayings and doings at Mrs.
Blemmerton's party, heretofore recited, and the day be-
fore that on which the remnant of the household effects
of the deceased William Wallace were to be sold at
vendue, to satisfy the rent duesto Mr. Llemmerton, oc-
curred two remarkable episodes in the history of the
aforesaid Blemmertons; episodes, apparently trivial in
themselves, but, in the sequel, of considerable impor-
tance.
Seated at his desk in his counting-room, ere yet the
day's business was fairly under way, Mr. Blemmerton,
at the hands of the penny-post, received Mr. Love-
good's letter.
"Now we shall see !" ejaculated he, with a chuckle.
He broke the seal,--and lo, as the reader is aware,
there was a curt refusal, and that very curtness was, if
any thing, its most disagreeable point. He dropped
the letter, knit his brow, and would have muttered and
murmured a good many hard things, about preachers
in general and Mr. Lovegood in particular; such as,
they are a set of conceited asses, with more brass than
brains, etc. But, at that moment, be it said for the
good of the clergy in general, his attention was called
in another direction; and your heads were spared, you

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.           -111
sometimes buffeted and abused, but more frequently
kindly treated race, that a portion of that ire might fall
on one who had already borne the rude blast, and shiv-
ered beneath its breath, as the ship dismantled in the
storm, lashed and driven by the waves and winds.
" Ah, it's you, is it ?" said he, addressing little Agnes
Wallace, who stood mute and tremulous at the threshold
of the counting-room. "And what do you want now?
It's useless to trouble me any more on that subject.
The rent must be paid. I can't afford to lose any thing
more, nor can I grant any indulgence. And if you are
poor, it's your own fault. No one in this flourishing
country need be poor, if he is industrious and economi-
cal. Besides, there is an alms-house. You can go to
that. I am taxed enough for its support, and that's all
I am willing to do."
"'But," said Agnes, brushing the tears from her eyes,
and assured by the confidence which her present mis-
sion inspired, "I did not come a-begging, Sir, nor to
ask any indulgence; I came to pay you your rent."
" Pay me my rent ! I should like to know where you
got the money, since you are so poor ?" "I have the
money here, Sir, all ready to pay the debt." "Ah, ha,
I see. There is some trick. Some one has been made
to suffer for this. I'll be after seeing into this affair.
Come, now, tell me how you raised the money ; for I
fear it's not all right, and I won't be a party to it."
" I have been directed not to do that, Sir." "Ah, ha!
I see. Did your father tell you that ?"
"No, Sir," replied the little girl, bursting into a flood
*of tears, " my poor father is dead and buried." " Dead,
is hei Well, well, alackaday, so the world goes. Let

i ~i


112

TILE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

me see, what is it? Yes, ' Dust thou art.' And he is
dead! Come, now, my child," said he in a softer tone,
-for death has a cold grasp and icy hand, and
brings a pallor even in the breath of his name,-" come,
now, my child, tell me all about this. How did you
get the money ?"
It was the first soft word or tone Agnes had ever heard
in that quarter; and it well-nigh robbed her of her
good resolutions not to betray her trust and secret. "A
soft answer turneth away wrath ;' much more does a
soft, gentle word of tenderness, pry open and tear asun-
der the heart, when it comes from one from whom we
did not expect it, and from whom we have been accus-
tomed to hear only words of keen reproach and harsh-
ness. Forgive that little girl, then, if her childish heart
melted, and she wavered for a moment between duty
and the promptings of the inner fountains of her being,
which had been touched.
" A kind gentleman gave it to my poor sick mother,
the night my dear father died. That is all that I can
tell you. And here is a paper which he wrote, and told
me to take it to you and get your signature to it, before
I gave you the money." This was uttered with child-
ish simplicity. Agnes did not comprehend the cutting
rebuke, the terrible reproach conveyed in these words.
This, even the obdurate Blemmerton did not fail to see ;
and it was not without its effect. . He changed counte-
nance ; and there, in the presence of an innocent, sim-
ple-minded little child, he felt cowed, awe-stricken,
abashed. But it was not that his conscience was stirred
or smitten. He saw that there was a guiding hand su-
perior to that little child, which was to him like the

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.             113
handwriting on the wall at the impious feast of Bel-
shazzar. That hand troubled him: it seemed to reveal
those awful words, " Mene, mene, tekel upharsin !"
" Who was the gentleman ? Did he tell you his
name ?" " He did, Sir. But he told me not to divulge
it to you." " And won't you tell me, my child ?"
" No, Sir. I can only say that he was a kind, good
gentleman, who met me accidentally, and learned of
me that my poor father was dying, and went home
with me and took pity on us."
Here Mr. Blemmerton read the paper handed to him
by Agnes. It was a receipt, and read as follows:
"Nov. -, 18-.
"$ 30. Received of Sarah Wallace, relict of Wil-
liam Wallace, deceased, the sum of thirty dollars, in
full of all demands for rent due Ime to this date; and I
hereby discontinue the proceedings under which the
household effects of the aforesaid Wallace were to have
been sold on the    day of --, to satisfy the claim
as aforesaid."
"And I am to sign that paper, am I?" "Yes, Sir,
or sell the furniture that remains to us; for so the gen-
tleman directed me to say." Mr. Blemmerton made a
tremulous, nervous signature, and received the money;
whereupon Agnes handed him the following paper,
written by the same unknown hand:
"SipR: Take notice, that the wife and daughter of
William Wallace, deceased, will no longer occupy
that wretched tenement of yours in street. After
to-morrow, it will be at your disposal. But I pray you

s:
!         F
i
j
r
i
}[Fj
P'
i
7
t r
+i
t
Iji
II }
Y
+      tl
f


114     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR

to be so kind as to make it tenantable, before you attach
the furniture of another dying man, whose death, too,
was caused by devotion to your interests.
" Yours,              ONE WHO KNOWs."
Agnes took her departure, and Mr. Blemmerton is
left alone to his reflections ; and, for humanity's sake,
we also will leave him alone. He has his money. If
the knife that cut the pound of flesh reeking with
blood when it was drawn out, it must rest upon his own
head. But there is an impenetrable mystery veiling
the whole transaction, which annoys him. Who could
the stranger have been ? Did he know him ? lie
would have given the pitiful sum of dollars and cents
he had just received, to have that mysterious veil lifted.
Would that transaction come to light? Would it face
him outside of the secret walls of that counting-room ?
Guess on, Mr. Blmmerton; time reveals secrets; and
time, perchance, will reveal this.
Once more we pass that,.rickety, woe-begone old
house in      street. The winds sigh through the
crevices ; the old stairway by which we ascended at
the gable, rocks and rattles, as it did on that dark,
shivering night; but now it is tenantless. The troubled
and sorrowing are gone. The winds of heaven no
longer respond to the sighs of the broken-hearted, the
wounded, and the bruised. Sweep on, ye winds of
heaven, ye blessed voices from the courts of God; ye
bring but mementoes of a Father's love. Play on in
your gleesome frolicking, through the paneless sashes
and glaring cracks ; shake the old tenement irk your
mirth or sadness; ye no longer disturb the living nor

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             115
the dead. The dead sleeps with his fathers ; the mourner
has gone home; that history is written in the records
on high!
" But the living," you say, "where are they ?" Go
with me, and I will show you. We must take an oin-
nibus, for our destination is in the northern part of the
city. Away we rattle up a great broad street, which
is all whirl and commotion. We roll along now slowly,
now we spur up; presently we pause to pick up a pas-
senger, now to let one out. There, now pull up. We
get out here. Now this way. Now we go down this
street; we shall soon-be there. 'We enter a neat, and a
very cleanly street; and here before us is a block of tidy
buildings, small but comfortable. These dwellings
have an humble look, in contrast with many of the im-
posing buildings in the neighborhood ; but still there
is an air of snugness and tidiness about them, cheering
to behold, after leaving that barren, desolate, cheerless-
looking tenement which we have just noted.
This block of buildings has been erected by Mr.
Friendly, for the accommodation of the mechanics in
his employ, and those whose means are limited, but to
whom comfort and convenience are as necessary and
welcome as they are to the affluent. Mr. Friendly
is a true philanthropist; one of your considerate, good-
hearted men, who, in the investment of his-money, has
more at heart than the mere per centage. Ie consid-
ers, that, while he is building and renting houses, it
is his duty to consult the well-being of his tenants;
and it is his delight and pleasure to do so. Therefore,
in all his houses you will find due and scrupulous regard
paid to convenience. And he builds such tenements,


TIE BLEMMERToNS; oR,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

for the accommodation of the hands in his employ, and
others who may seek them, not valuing the trifling ad-
ditional costs, nor increasing the rent on that account.
Year by year is he investing in this way his surplus
funds, thus ameliorating the condition of the laboring
man, contributing to his health and happiness, and
affording him  a pleasant and convenient home, at
moderate rates. And many are the blessings that are
invoked on his head. Go on, Mr. Friendly, in your
quiet, unpretending way. The Lord beholds and marks.
You are doing more for the real benefit of your race,
than many who make more noise in the world about
their love of the dear people.
Here, walk in. It is, indeed, the abode of poverty,
but not of wretchedness. A kind hand has added a
plain carpet, and some other articles of comfort, to the
meager stock of Mrs. Wallace's furniture. Every thing
about the room is clean and tidy. The stove is bright;
and the cheerful fire imparts a home-feeling to the in-
nates. An old walnut table stands against the wall
on one side, over which hangs a small, poor man's
mirror, which has seen better days; and a few old
chairs, scattered here and there in order. And a cup-
board, half open, reveals a small lot of plain, old-
fashioned china. These make complete the humble
apartment into which we are ushered. As you cast
your eye casually towards the cupboard, you behold .a
silver cup, of antique style, heavily wrought. This
you would like to examine; for it is really a curiosity.
It bears the initials F. G., and seems like a relic of other
and better days. There is a mystery about that old
silver cup : it has a story and a moral, you fancy, which

you would like to have revealed; but a sense of pro-
priety silences your curiosity.
And now cast your eyes around. The walls are
neatly papered. Throughout the house, there are pipes,
conveying water to all the apartments ; in the attic there
is a bathing-room, fitted with pipes for warm and cold
baths; there are two neat chambers above, each with
its wardrobe attached. On the first and second floors,
each, there is a hall communicating with the front door;
on the first floor are two neat parlors, and a convenient
kitchen, with its bake-oven, wash-room, cistern, and
pantries; a warm, dry, tight cellar completes the inter-
nal arrangements. Every thing here bears inspection,
and wears the appearance of comfort and convenience.
Mrs. Wallace bears the marks of sore trials and dis-
ease. The destroyer, we fear, has but too surely set his
seal upon her. She is not long for earth. Her heavy
afflictions of mind and body have been too much for
her frail constitution; and she is yielding fast to the
stroke.  Little Agnes is stitching collars; and her
mother sits by a lamp, reading to her from the Bible.
11er Prayer-Book lies by her, on the little stand. It is
early yet for a lamp; but Mrs. Wallace's eyes have
grown weak under disease and long vigils. She is now
barely able to sit up and read a few lines, for her own
and her daughter's consolation, from that treasure-book
of divine love.
It is good for us to be here, to behold the calm, holy
resignation of that uncomplaining spirit, which seems
already to be clothed, or clothing itself, for the spirit-
world. We seem to catch whispers, as if angels were
passing about the room and discoursing of heavenly

[

116

117


118

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

things. Speak on,.ye glorious messengers! Tell us of
our Father's home and love! Win us from the earth,
and bear our ~affections upwards! Catch the tear of
gratitude from that humble, thankful woman, and bear
it up to God; it will turn to a gem,.and be set in a
crown, for the head of him who hath mercy on the
widow and the orphan!'
A ring at the bell. Little Agnes runs to the door;
a small, spare man, with quick, sparkling eyes, and
sedate countenance, enters. "How do you do to-night?
I hope you are better, Mrs. Wallace. And this is your
little daughter Agnes? And these friends? Well,
never mind: I've seen this gentleman before. If there
is any thing more needed in this house for your com-
fort, Mrs. Wallace, let me know; it shall be provided.
A friend paid me your rent to-day six months in ad-
vance. But,-but,-well, well, it matters not. I know
all. Please receive that, Madam," handing her, or
rather placing on the stand at her side, a small pack-
age. "There, please say nothing; it's all right. Good-
night; good-night. I can't stay longer. Hope you will
do well. God bless you and your little daughter." And
Mr. Friendly was off, after giving into the widow's hand
a good portion of the rent he had received.
Go, happy man, and God Almighty bless thee ! The
gift that fell from thy hands was seen and counted by
an angel, who flew overjoyed to heaven, and his com-
panions pressed around him and caught his words as he
told them out to the recording angel! Thou shalt be
remembered! "Cast thy bread upon the waters; for,
after many days thou shalt find it." And ah ! couldst
thou have seen that stricken mother press to her bosom,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             119
with her full MOTHER'S heart, the little daughter at her
side, and bathe her fair cheeks in tears of joy and grat-
itude; couldst thou have heard that benediction, and
seen those streaming eyes; methinks thou wouldst have
been carried nearer heaven, and have sympathized
with the angels and redeemed spirits. But, go on ;
thou shalt, not be forgotten! " Inasmuch as ye have
done it unto one of the least of these Yny brethren, ye
have done it unto me." "Come, ye blessed of my
Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the
foundation of the world."  Matt. xxv. 34, 40.

I

t
t         '
* (
7 #
iS,  }
1
Z        f
j{}
#          f
i
t
t j
j  71
1 ' ,
f
}
i
s   ;
1
;
's
J   i     j;         t
g
1
''       Y
i
F
,
,s       i
f        t
s
i
l
:'
f


DOTTINGS BY TI.E WAYSIDE.

121

CHAPTER X.
THE B.'s IN TROUBLE,-COGITATIONS]--THE TRAINING OF
CHILDREN.
MR. BLEMMERTON hurried.home at an early hour, that
afternoon. "In the multitude of counsellors there is
wisdom." Happy thought ! Mr. B. will improve it,
by calling a council that evening, not exactly of war,
but of device and advice. So he delayed not to de-
spatch a messenger to Mrs. Fussy, Mrs. Nochurch, and
Mrs. Fastidious, earnestly requesting their presence at
his house after tea.
Something of importance was certainly on hand.
This Mrs. Fussy knew fill well; and, by a sort of in-
stinctive prescience, she knew what it was. So, before
the messenger was out of sight, she was bonneted and
off. She ran in first to see Mrs. Quiet. "Mrs. Quiet,
have you been sent for, to go to Mr. Blemmerton's this
evening ?" This question was simply an introductory.
She knew Mrs. Quiet had not been sent for. "No, I
have not." "Dear me, what can be going on? I have
just been sent for, to go there after tea; and the girl
told me she had several other ladies to invite. Some-
thing is on foot, you may depend. I guess they have
heard that Mr. Lovegood will accept the call; or per-
haps they have heard that he will not. Which do you
think it is, Mrs. Quiet ?"  "Really, I cannot say; but
neither, I apprehend. Mr. Quiet wrote to Mr. Love-

good; and I apprehend when there is a reply he will
receive it,-as yet he has received no intelligence from
him." "Well, how strange ! I do wonder what is
going on
Meantime Mrs. Nochurch pays a flying visit to her
Presbyterian neighbor, who takes a lively interest in
the affairs of St.  's Church, and is wonderfully in-
telligent on the subjects of Puseyism, iigh-Church,
etc., and from her heart pities all Churchmen who are
so silly as to be "tied," as she says, "to forms and cere-
monies," and to hold that "barbarous idea of the dark
ages, the Apostolic succession."  "You don't say so !"
exclaims Mrs. Presbyterian, in reply to Mrs. Nochurch's
announcement. "It's too good almost to be believed."
"I do verily believe it! He must have declined, and
I am so glad; for I did not want that Mr. Lovegood to
come here. Mrs. Blemmerton says lie is a rank Pusey-
ite. She said Mr. Blemmerton said so; for he knew
that lie bowed in the Creed, and this is one of the signs.
Discerning people read such matters very easily. I am
right glad. I hope he has declined; for we want no
unchurching of other Churches !"
Mrs. Fussy, as she runs round, meets Mrs. Fastidious.
"Dear Mrs..Fussy, I am happy to meet you. Have
you heard the news ? Is it so ? Can it be possible ? I
did not want Mr. Lovegood for our pastor; for I've
been told that he is not at all suited to us. They say
he is not a popular preacher; at least that he is not
eloquent enough for us. And I am sure if that be the
case, I cannot go to church in the afternoon; for a dull,
prosy preacher would not keep my eyes open. And
they say, if we stay at home in the afternoon, we shall

i

I

120

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR


122

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

be sure to hear of it. 0, dear Mrs. Fussy, just think
of that ! It is unbearable !"
Before eight o'clock that little council was in session.
Business opened by the reading of Mr. Lovegood's let-
ter to Mr. Blemmerton, which the reader will remember
was simply a refusal to preach what Mr. B. called a
trial sermon. The merits and demerits of the aforesaid
letter were freely discussed. As to merit they could
see none in it, except that, as the ladies understood it,
it was a declining of the call to the Church. This
they deemed highly satisfactory, and so declared unani-
mously. But they had no conception of a call to St.
's Church being entertained with so much indiffer-
ence. He might have gone a little more into details;
have been more complaisant and respectful to Mr.
Blemmerton and the vestry. But they supposed it was
characteristic !
"Now, Mr. Blemmerton," remarked Mrs. Fastidious,
"if we could only get Mr. Powerful here, whom I
heard last summer at    , we should be made. Ie is
so eloquent; so graceful in his delivery; has such a
soft, sweet voice; and is so captivating ! 0, 1 do wish
we could get him in St.    's Church ! And I am
sure he would come; for Mrs. Graceful told me that he
ought to have a more important field of labor; that a
man of his talent was buried alive where he is. Now,
can't you make an effort to get Mr. Powerful for us?"
No, no. Mr. Blemmerton's skirts are now clear!
It's useless for him to try to do any thing. All his
efforts for the good of the congregation have been op-
posed. He is now done, and will fall back on his dig-
nity. "Let them have their own way. Let them have

s,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

123

their own way," said he. Mrs. Nochurch thought, that
"Dr. Ranter would be the best choice they could make-
for he has extemporary prayers in his Sunday-school
room during the week-day evenings; is very friendly
with the Presbyterians; sometimes preaches for them;
and is such a good, evangelical man." She was sure,
if they called him, a good many Presbyterians would
come to church, for Mrs. Presbyterian had told her so.
Mrs. Fussy had one objection to Mr. Lovegood, which
as -yet she had not named; and she had just heard it
that day. "They say he is not married. And, dear
me, what do we want with a high and dry old bache-
lor !" This is news to Mrs. Blemmerton. She was not
aware of this before. But, for her Apart, she could see
nothing so awful in his being. unmarried. She thought
he might get married. She reckoned, among so many
interesting, intelligent single ladies in the congregation,
he might get a suitable wife ; if he were not too ugly
and unpopular.
"Yes," said Mrs. Fastidious, smiling, "there is Nanny
Jumper, and Jennie Smart, and Alice Smooth, and-
and D   -"  "O, no-no-no !" exclaimed Mrs. Blem-
merton, " don't name such a thing !"
So the ladies dispersed after all, in a good humor,
which happy state was brought about at the expense of
the prospective Mrs. Lovegood. It acted like a charm
on Mrs. Blemmerton; for, though she had said nothing,
yet she had a great deal in store. But the announce-
ment of the fact that Mr. Lovegood was a.single man,
mollified her very much, and made her gentle and ami-
able towards everybody, and particularly so towards
Mr. Lovegood. Mrs. Fastidious, too, had come near


124     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

touching a spring, in enumerating suitable young ladies.
The mere suggestion of a marriage, or the naming of a
wedding, on such an occasion, is always sure ito bring
about a happy equilibrium. It puts everybody in a
good humor; it acts like oil poured on the troubled
waves.
And the result? Simply, as usual on such occasions,
a misunderstanding. The news flew about the congre-
gation, the next day, that Mr. Lovegood had declined
the call; and the strangest part of the story was, that
the declining was forwarded to Mr. Blenmerton.
After the aforesaid ladies took their departure, Mr.
Blemmerton recounted to his wife and daughters the
mysterious transaction between himself and Agnes
Wallace. That he had not named to his visitors; for
it involved a secret worth keeping. He entered into
every particular, not omitting to name the receipt and
the contents of the note signed, "One who knows."
" Who can that mysterious stranger be ?" said he. Mrs.
B., though uniformly apt at guessing, was completely
tongue-tied. She hadn't the most remote idea.
Miss Deliah Airmyth thought it might possibly be
Mr. Quiet, as she had heard it whispered "that he was
a curious old man." "INo, it cannot be Mr. Quiet,"
said he; "for she said he was a stranger; by which I
suppose she meant some one that I do not know."
"Ah ! that reminds mme, pa," said Miss Julia Jasper.
And here Miss Julia Jasper repeats.the remarks she
made to Mr. Heartful the night of the party, about
Agnes Wallace's calling at the door to see her father;
and also what Mr. Ileartful related of his having met a
little girl the same night, and accompanied her home,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             125
and been with her father when, he died.   " How
strange !" said the father. "Yes, father," continued
Miss Julia Jasper, "it must have been Mr. Heartful;
for I remember that he seemed annoyed at my remarks ;
he laid great stress on his words, andspoke signifi-
cantly."
" 0, Julia !" said Mrs. B., "how could you have been
so foolish as to speak about such matters with Mr.
Hleartful? You are very much. to blame. Oh, dear, I
can't forgive you! He is such a nice gentleman. I
gave my party with a view of getting him here, as soon
as I heard he was in town. And now this spoils all
my hopes."  Poor Miss Julia burst into tears. The
Blemmertons are all exceedingly uncomfortable. We
pity them; but folly, sooner or later, is sure to bring its
reward.
Miss Deliah Airmyth reminds her father, that Mr.
Heartful had, a day or so before, gone to pay a visit at
Heartfulville. She had heard it that afternoon, while
out taking a walk. " And this," said Mrs. B., " accounts
for that letter from Mr. Lovegood. Mr. Ileartful has
talked with him. And no doubt Mr. Lovegood has
heard all about the Wallaces and the rent. 0, Julia,
Julia! how could you have done so ! I'm ruined, I'm
ruined!"
And herein Mrs. B. takes trouble on interest; but a
guilty conscience is its own accuser. It wraps itself in
a shadowy cloud, which has the power of reflection,
and throws back what it fancies others see and know.
Mr. lHeartftl had not exchanged a word with Mr. Love-
good on such a topic; but it was easy for Mrs. Blem
merton to imagine that lie had. And now, instead of


126     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,'

pining over the sin involved in their treatment of the
Wallaces, she was mainly, if not solely, grieved, that
she saw in these-transactions a formidable barrier placed
in the way of her hopes and aspirations. Sin ever car-
ries its lash and sting with it; and family sins descend
to remote generations, wind themselves through, and
entwine themselves about, the members of a family in
all their ways and works-.
Mr. and Mrs. Blemmerton, in the training of their
daughters, had lost sight of the true aims and ends of
life. Had they themselves been actuated by good mo-
tives and sound principles, they would have been spared
such reflections as they were now compelled to make.
But the children had copied from the parents; and the
example was patented. And here we have but an epit-
ome of what must fall to their lot through life, and to
their children's children after them, unless, by the grace
of God, they are led to see the error of their way, and
hasten to repent, and amend, as far as possible, what.
they have done amiss.
0 what a blessed treasure is a good wife ! a good
mother ! 0 ye angels of light and purity! 0 ye spirits
of the holy and the just, rise up and call her blessed !
The good mother will suppress in her daughter the
subtle poison of vanity, pride of dress and fashion,
and fondness for show; and will teach her, that woman
has a higher, nobler sphere in life than the merely sen-
timental. She will not permit her to be deceived by such
coined phrases as "feminine accomplishments,"-by
which is meant only the accouplement of worldliness with
a fashionable education,-into the belief that woman is
fitted only for that which is light and trifling. But she

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              127
begins with her daughter at an early age, and endeav-
ors to point out to her her true sphere, her true stand-
point in the universe of mind1; to draw out her spiritual
nature ; to teach her, that she is designed by Provi-
dence for more than a toy or plaything, or a mere dream-
er in the world; that it is her office, to soothe the sor-
rowings of humanity, to be its kindly and gentle moni-
tor, to pour the oil of joy and gladness upon the troub-
led waves of its sea of life, and to gild all its pathway
with sunshine ; and to aid her, in her efforts and aspi-
rations to gather the fruits which cluster on the tree of
knowledge, to pluck the flowers,-yea, and wreathe
them about her brow,-that bloom along the pathway
of usefulness.
On a theme so important, we beg leave to turn aside
awhile, to throw out a few chance suggestions. It can
scarcely be denied, that the routine of what is termed
fashionable life," is unfavorable to the growth of
sound morals and solid piety. There is a rottenness at
the very heart of much of our conventional formality;
in its ostentation, extravagance, luxury, idleness, dissi-
pation, gossiping, and their attendant evils in example,
and the rivalries, jealousies, and bickerings growing out
of them, that stagnates the healthful growth of virtue
and religion. And one of its evil effects, and one be-
ginning to be sorely felt, is its deteriorating power and
.influence over the young. Devotion to the world, is al-
lowed to rob parents of time to perform their duty to
their children. This had been the great fault of the
Blemmertons. When they set out in life, their great
struggle was for the "Amighty Dollar."  They had
but one fixed, settled aim and purpose in life. That was


128     THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

to accumulate wealth: that accomplished, their desires
took another turn. Ambition was now their guiding,
motive ; to be accounted ,of consequence, to make a
show in the world, to effect advantageous marriages for
their daughters: these were the impulses that prompt-
ed and guided all their actions. We cannot fail to see,
then, that however competent they might have been, to
form  and mould the dispositions of their daughters
aright, had they been actuated by true Christian princi-
ples, the world interposed a .fearful barrier ; and they
were suffered to come to maturity, dwarfed and biased,
for lack of proper management of their passions and af-
fections while young.
And herein lies the root of a great wrong in the n ur-
ture of children :-lst, in yielding to their whims and
caprices. See that little fellow rubbing his eyes and
sobbing : "Mamma, give me a cake."  Hear mamma,
petulantly, as she casts aside her work : ", bless me,
what a plague! There, take it, and begone !" And
away goes the little fellow in ecstasies. lie managed
his mother. He knew her weak point, and skilfully
stormed it. Ay, more; he learned his lesson. You
smile at this: it is a small matter. True. Your child
also is small; now he asks only a small thing;y- but,
teach him his lesson, yield to all his tears, and soon he
will make demands that will tear asunder your heart-
strings, and leave them bleeding.
2d. In the manner of correcting children, applying
discipline in a pet or passion, not doing it in love, and
making the child feel that it is done, not to gratify your
own passion, nor simply because you have the power, but
because it is your duty to God and to your child, thus

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             129
manifesting and carrying in your handlove, gentleness,
affection, sanctified by the authority which cometh
down from the "Father of lights, with whom is no va-
riableness, neither shadow of turning."
3d. In accounting childish anger a trifling thing,
when in fact it requires the nicest management. Your
little boy or girl falls into a pet or pout, and you give it
a lump of sugar to cure the ailment. He or she dashes
it against the floor and pouts the more. Then "mam-
ma's son or daughter is very naughty ;" and mamma
plies the sugar again, and again it is dashed on the
floor. " Very well, you naughty child ; now wait till I
pick it up." And then most likely the scene ends in a cry,
and perhaps a sudden or angered chastisement. Is no
wrong committed ? Certainly there is; for, nothing has
been done to counteract that childish anger. The child
has not been taught, that its pettishness was wrong;
but that mamma chastised it because she was angry:
hence, after all, it learned as a lesson, that its passion
was but a small thing in contrast with the parent's dis-
pleasure. And the parent's duty is not discharged, un-
til the child is taught to realize, as fully as possible,.
that its anger was sinful, and that now it must be angry
and grieved at the sin it has committed. Or again:
your child falls against a chair and hurtsitself. Its first
impulse is apt to be a desire to hurt the chair in return.
And the parent or nurse, to quiet the child, strikes the
chair a smart blow. "Now, you naughty chair, take
that, for hurting little  ."  The child smiles,its tears
are dried, but a great wrong has been committed. In
fact, it would have been better, had the child cried the
day out, than that any such thing should have been
6e


130

THE BLEMMERToNs; OR,

done ; for it teaches the child, that such manifestations
of anger, mingled with a desire of revenge, are right,
and tends to fix the habit of revenge in the heart.
4th. In controlling the self-love of children. It al-
ways manifests itself very strongly. Indeed, it may
be safely asserted, that selfishness develops itself in
children, first of all the passions or affections, and be-
nevolence the last, perhaps ; at least, its development
is of much slower growth. " Meum     and tuium" are
soon understood by a child, and strongly manifested ;
while the opposite, benevolence, the desire of giving
away what is mine, for the benefit of another, is not so
easily appreciated. And on this point it cannot be de-
nied, that many parents grievously err. There are, in-
deed, honorable exceptions ; but it must be owned, that,
both by precept and example, the majority of parents
do cultivate, draw out, and establish in the breasts of
their children, the principle of selfishness, while all
their kindly, generous, benevolent feelings, are stifled,
blunted, and repressed, for want of cultivation and de-
velopment.
But, while it must be acknowledged, that a purely
selfish, sordid, grovelling disposition, is a very mean one,
and one that should be suppressed in children, would
we train them for their true sphere as creatures of two
worlds ; let it not be lost sight of, that a spirit of ex-
travagance and prodigality, the disposition of the spend-
thrift, is as odious and sinful. It should, then, be the
parent's aim, to teach the child, that the good things of
this life are gifts from the Lord, bestowed upon us, not
to be lavished in prodigality on our lusts and passions,
nor to pamper pride and luxury, but to do good to our,

I

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.

131

fellow-men in our place and sphere, and so glorify our
Father in heaven.
The children of the wealthy are often indulged, to a
shameful extent, in the sin of prodigality; and many
are the tears which flow from broken hearts, in the
wake of this portentous evil. Could we utter a word
that would be heard and heeded on this point, we
would say, that young persons should be allowed but
little spending money, and of that the parent or guardian
should take a strict account, requiring from the child
as exact an account of the spending of every penny
of it.
The indulgence of the young with large supplies of
pocket-money, is a great evil among the wealthy of our
cities, and in our collegiate and boarding-school educa-
tion. On the part of boys, it leads to suppers, cards,
wine, the bar-room, and the theatre, unless there are
powerful barriers in- the way. On the part of girls, it
leads to extravagance in dress, and to the wretchedness
of a pampered heart, inflated with pride of wealth and
desire of ostentation.
The history of Jacob and Esau opens to our view a
striking picture; ,on the one hand, of covetousness, on
the other, of prodigality. And it is well worth a care-
ful consideration, in connection with what we have
advanced. Jacob coveted the birthright; Esau de-
spised it, or lightly esteemed it; and in the history,
taken as a whole, we have a type of the results of
family sins. The patriarch Isaac sinned, in rebelling
against the will of the Lord ; Jacob and' his mother
Rebekah, in coveting the birthright, and attempting to
aid in bringing  about the declared will of heaven in


132      TIIE BLEMMERTONS; Ol,

their faithless impatience; Esau, in despising his tenm -
poral blessings. And hence, parents and children
clouded over their after life with sorrow. In consider-
ing this history, then, we behold the misery entailed on
a whole family, by a single sin on the part of parents;
and we learn something of the awful character of
family sins, in their results upon posterity to remote
generations.
The patriarch Isaac intended to frustrate the will of
God; and his declining days are rendered pitiable, on
account of the unhappy quarrel between his sons.
Rebekah had dealt treacherously with her husband,
and is now miserable on account of the cheerless pros-
pect before her. Esau despised his birthright, and now
sips his folly in sorrow ; is enraged at the unjust con-
duct of his brother, and burns with revenge. Jacob
coveted the inheritance, and took unfair means to
acquire it; and now he is obliged to fly from all his
most cherished associations, into a strange land, for the
preservation of his life. Oh, how it saddens the heart,
when, years after, in the presence of Pharaoh, we hear
him exclaim, " The days of the years of my pilgrimage
have been a hundred and thirty years : few and evil
have the days of the years of my life been !" Gen.
xlvii. 8, 9.
Jacob feels the lash of conscience; he obeys its
behests ; the sin of his brother mitigates not his own;
he repents him of his wickedness ; forsakes all; leaves
the scene of strife ; passes from under his father's roof,
where at least he ought to have been. secure ; turns his
back on his happy home, his kind and loving parents,
and the pleasant scenes of his childhood ; and with

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.             133
staff in hand, lonely and unprotected, he enters on his
pilgrimage. 0 Jacob, the supplanter !  I see thee,
Israel, a prince with God! Penitence shall wash out
thy sin. A hard, a rugged life is before thee. But
Faith looks on to the goal, and there is the crown of
blessedness.
Let us behold him at Bethel, also, and learn the
measure of the work of the penitent, and mark the
deep compassion of the Almighty, through His blessed
Son, in watching over us and our little ones, in our
weakness and waywardness ; and let us humble our-
selves under His Almighty hand, repent of our sins and
of our neglect to our offspring, and pray for pardon, and
amend what we have done amiss, before the evil days
draw nigh in which we shall find no peace.
Jacob awakes out of sleep. The bright sun gilds the
heavens; darkness has fled, and smiling Nature calls
the patriarch to imitate her praise to the Almighty.
The vision has past away. The ladder is removed.
The angels have gone home. But the Lord is near, and
Jacob is blessed. His soul is braced for a higher flight,
and a wider range in the spiritual life. He sees God
by faith. That ladder he knows is before him. Those
blessed spirits are passing up and down, though he
sees them not. And filled with solemn awe and rever-
ence, he exclaims; "Surely the Lord is in this place,
and I knew it not. How dreadful is this place! this is
none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of
heaven !"
0, let us all remember, parents and children, and
lay to heart the grievous sin of Esau. We, too, have
a birthright, which we received at our baptism, pur--


134

THE BLMMERTONs; OR,

chased for and secured to us by the incarnation and
passion of our Lord Jesus Christ ; even reconciliation
with God and adoption into his family, and the crown-
ing joys of His presence and glory. Are we, like Esau,
selling them for naught? Then, alas ! we, too, may
weep and lament when too late : "Bless me, even rme
also, 0 my Father : and Esau lifted up his voice and
wept !"
To touch on all the joys and sorrows that mingle in
this history, would be to write a volume. But there is
one other picture, on which we would look for a mo-
ment, ere we leave the deeply interesting story at which
we have glanced.
After a storm, the bow in the clouds cheers the heart.
The bright sun, breaking through clouds and mists,
after days of darkness, brings joy in its smile. So,
after viewing the checkered scenes of a history from
life, it is delightful to turn to some bright spot, which
casts a radiance over the whole, and relieves the pic-
ture of many of its saddening tints and colors. This
we have in the meeting of the brothers, Jacob and
Esau, after a long separation. After years of estrange-
ment, time has wrought its changes, and grace has
moulded the character.   Youthful ambition, impa-
tience, and impetuosity, have had their day; the pas-
sions have ceased to revolt against the will of God; and
we find the patriarch Jacob journeying with all his
family and wealth to the land of his brother Esau.
Penitence has chastened and subdued his heart; and
yet, remembering his youthful sin, he feared the anger
and resentment of his brother. His sin, though re-
pented of and pardoned, was not forgotten, and seems

F

DOTTING BY THE wAYSIDE.

f}
i
s
a
t
1   -
E
t
i
E
3   ,
+ a
L
a
a r
7
3
5 ±
{
{ x
i ,
i
t
s

135

to cling to his skirts. He sends before him messengers
and presents to appease Esau.
0 the work of grace that prompted him to seek re-
conciliation ! And Esau comes out to meet him; for
God has touched his heart, and changed it towards his
brother. And there we behold the penitent, humble
Jacob, "bowing seven time-s to the ground until he
came near to his brother; and Esau ran to meet him,
and embraced him, and fell on his neck and kissed
him; and they wept." This is a lovely and affecting
picture of the best impulses and affections of the human
heart, and is scarcely surpassed by the meeting between
Joseph and his brethren. "They meet, they converse,
they love as brothers ought to do." And," 0 how good
and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in
unity !" "We apprehend a strife of fierce and angry
looks, of reproachful words, of violence and blood.
But, how joyful the disappointment ! Behold a con-
tention of kindness, a blessed contest of affection, the
honest, heart-melting triumph of nature, the noble vic-
tory of goodness !"


13GU

CHAPTER XI.

MR. LOVEGOOD'S EARLY TROUBLES. THE COMMUNION OF
SAINTS.
WE must go back, some dozen years or more, in our
story, and recount a few of the incidents in the life of
Mr. Lovegood, as they were developed in his parish at
Heartfulville. We have said, that Mr. Lovegood was
tenderly beloved by his flock. This is true. but it
will be a mistake to suppose, that he was free from
trouble and annoyances, of various kinds, and from dif-
ferent sources. The ministerial life, with all its pleas-
ures, is never free from trials.
We care not how pleasant and fair the lines of a
clergyman's lot are, yet everywhere will they be found.
to intertwine, more or less, about the conditions of a
probationary state, and the frailties and weaknesses in-
cident to fallen humanity. It is the will of the Lord,
that they who minister at His altars, and follow in the
regeneration after Him, should partake with Him in
sufferings, sorrows, reproaches, and chafing of the flesh,
for His body's sake, the Church. A young man, on
setting out in the ministerial office, finds his first trials,
whether small or great, hard to endure; but, time and
habit inure him to them; and, at last, he is prepared
to meet them, as blessings for his spiritual good.
What should we be worth, wherein should we find

TILE I*L A rME iT0NS; 0 1 9

a
i
z=.
_.
nx.
t
a
1
E
},
r
f
t
i ,
s'
l
r
z
F
t ,
K

tests of our true spiritual state, were it not that we are
sometimes cast into the furnace? This tempers us to
the task before us; this tends to certify to us whereof
we are made. 0.,.how many hopes linger after, how
many prayers follow, the young Herald of the Cross,
when he goes forth to battle with the combined powers
of darkness! Perhaps he goes a stranger to a strange
land, not knowing what is before him: whether perils
by land or perils by sea, shipwreck, or disease, or death.
In the old church at home, he has been commissioned
unto his work, and put his armor on ; in the old church
at home, he has lifted up his heart and voice in prayer,
and, with the full congregation of friends and neigh-
bors, and loving relatives, he has repeated that glowing
confession: "I believe in the Communion of Saints."
But he never so fully realized it as now; now that lie
goes a stranger unto a strange land. Ah! there is a
mighty potency in that doctrine of the Communion of
Saints, which, alas! but too many of us do not fully re-
alize when we feel alone on the earth. Could our eyes
be opened to invisible things, we should behold on all
sides their wonders and tokens. We live by faith, in
the splendor of the Gospel day. We realize but little
of the awful mystery in which, day by day, we move
in the mystical Communion of Saints, in the fellowship
of the inhabitants of the Spirit-land, the angels of light,
who are around us, to extend to us, in ways hidden and
secret, the mercies of their anid our common Father.
The angels are God's messengers unto us for good,
and ministers from the courts above. In the old dis-
pensation, the ministry of angels was conspicuous; and
the prophets, especially Elisha, held wonderful commu-

137

DO T T IING5s BY TIHE WAYSIDE.


IU8    THE BLEMMERTONS; ORE,

nications with those messengers of God. Of this we
have a remarkable evidence in 2 Kings, vi. 17, etc.
There was war between Syria and Israel. The king
of Syria was sorely baffled, in all his plans of warfare.
The Israelites seemed to understand, in advance, all his
secret movements, and to be able to elude his wiles to
entrap them; so he fancied that some of his warriors
dealt treacherously with him, and lie accordingly ac-
cused them. But he was told, that it all was the work
of the prophet Elisha; that the prophet knew even the
thoughts of his heart in his chamber, and revealed them
to the king of Israel. The king of Syria determined,
then, to capture the prophet, who resided at Dothan.
His horses and chariots surrounded the city at night.
In the morning, a servant of the prophet went out; and,
seeing the formidable array of horses and chariots
which surrounded the city, he returned in trepidation
to his master, with the sad news, crying out, "Alas!
my master, how shall we (1 ?"  But Elisha was not
terrified. He knew, that lie was surrounded by the
Lord's hosts: therefore lie said to him, "Fear not; for
they that be with us are more than they that be with
them." "And Elisha prayed, and said, Lord, I pray
Thee open his eyes, that he may see. And the Lord
opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw; and,
behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of
fire round about Elisha."
So the camp of God is ever round His faithful chil-
dren. These were the holy angels whom this young
man saw, who were at hand ready to guard his master,
in ways secret to him. And as they were far more
powerful and numerous than the Assyrian host, his

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.             189
fears were stilled, when he beheld the prophet standing
in the centre of that glorious camp, so encircled and
defended as that none of his enemies could do him vio-
lence. And was the prophet insensible to this invisible
host which surrounded him? Nay; whether by faith
or inspiration, he knew that they encamped about him.
He enjoyed a citizenship in the unseen world; his
citizenship was in heaven. His eye was made keen, to
pierce the veil that shuts out invisible things, and to
behold the legions of God, His horses and chariots of
fire, round about him, for his protection and deliverance.
lie had his hours of loneliness, when he felt solitary on
the earth ; and yet he enjoyed the high privilege of
knowing in what communion and fellowship he dwelt.
He lived in the society of the court of heaven. And
thus was revealed to him, in no small measure, that
blessed Christian doctrine of the Communion of Saints.
lie held communion and fellowship with all saints from
the beginning; and, while emboldened by the imme-
diate succor and presence of angels, he was animated
and encouraged by the good examples of all those saints
and servants of the Most High, whether patriarchs or
prophets, priests or lawgivers, who had departed in the
true faith and fear of God, and who, by their life of
holiness, spake a lesson of the deepest interest, and
seemed to surround him with their trophies, and urge
him on to a manly combat with the enemies of God
and of souls.
Behold, too, and mark the horses and chariots of fire,
by which the faithful Christian is surrounded. See
low wonderfully this vision corresponds with the blessed
privilege which the Apostle tells us is conferred on us.

3


THE BLEMMERTONS; OR)

"Ye are come," says lie, "unto mount Sion, and unto
the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and
to an innumerable company of angels, to the general
assembly and church of the first-born, which are written
in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits
of just men made perfect, and to Jesus the Mediator of
the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that
speaketh better things than that of Abel."
0 what an host! How awful, yet how sublime, our
privilege! There you have the mount, and here you
behold Elisha, and an innumerable company of angels,
and the spirits of the just. We with him dwell, as it
were, beneath their shadow, and are baptized into the
fellowship. The angels are our guardians; the saints
of all ages, our ensamples; God is our Father, and
Jesus Christ our Mediator. We dwell ii the very court
of God, and of His eternal Son our Saviour, who died
for us; and rose again, and ascended up on high, lead-
ing captivity captive, and receiving gifts for men.
And we say there is a potency in this doctrine, not
always realized, even by those who are striving for the
mastery. But, perhaps, we approach its true realiza-
tion more nearly than at any other period, when we go
forth from all we have known and twined our heart
about, to mingle in new scenes and associations, or per-
chance to feel desolate in the world, having few to syn-
pathize with us, and none exactly to understand us, as
those with whom we have journeyed long, or taken
sweet counsel together. It is then, perhaps, if ever,
while the flesh hangs about us, we feel the full strength
of that holy bond, which holds in one mighty fellow-
ship " angels, and living saints and dead !" It is then

140.

F
i
Jr
1
f
t
t
fif
E
f
r
f
.y
II
w
E
R _
5

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

we feel the blessedness of the tie of the family relation-
ship-in Christ Jesus; that though we are strangers and
pilgrims, far away from home and friends, and kindly
sympathies, we yet dwell in the heavenly court, and
are surrounded by the Lord's hosts, with whom we have
fellowship; and that we are akin indeed unto Imman-
uel, and at last, when the weary way is run, we shall
pass through the vale, and enter into rest.
It was with a sad heart that Mr. Lovegood bade
adieu to the home of his childhood, to enter on the
duties of his new calling. How all the past gushed up
into his heart, and the scenes of his youth, his happy'
home, the tender solicitude of his honored parents, and
all the associations that twined about his heart, crowded
upon his memory, we need not relate.
A few days brought him to his destination; and now
before him lies a field of toil and privations, from which
lie might have shrunk, had he been over-timid or
cowardly. But he had counted the cost, and buckled
on his armor. The church at Hleartfulville was vener-
able from its antiquity; and the new Rector trod in the
steps of a number of worthy clergymen, whose dust
rested quietly in the consecrated and beautiful church-
yard. But the last Rector had been one of those easy
men, who had suffered things to take their own course.
Ie was a good, worthy, and amiable man, but seemed
never to have fully appreciated the Church's system.
Consequently, the parishioners were but indifferently
instructed in Church doctrines.
Except here and there a few, who had acquainted
themselves with distinctive Church principles, it may
be said of the congregation, that they knew no differ-

141


142     THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

ence between the Church and Methodism and Presby.
terianism, or any other ism. The old Rector had never
troubled himself about such questions; not exactly be-
cause he despised them, but because he deemed them
unprofitable, and, for the most part, useless. It must
be told that, with rare exceptions, it was not the fashion
at that day, and in the region of Heartfulville especial-
ly, to care much about the doctrines and principles of
the Church. The congregation were not taught the
apostolic succession, nor the sanctity of baptism, nor
any thing about the sin of schism. They were not
taught, that they were members of the Church, but of
a Church; hence, if, after a brief trial, one did not
happen to be pleased with this or that, he or she simply
withdrew to "some other church," without remon-
strance.
You sympathize with a young man, alive to all the
claims of the Church, in assuming such a charge. He
needs more than your sympathies; he needs your
prayers. And yet this was the proper field for Mr.
Lovegood. He had enough of moral courage to meet
every issue, and enough of prudence to avoid rashness.
He was not long in measuring the ground and work
before him.
Owing to the stagnation in growth and life which
always ensues when a parish "runs to seed," there had
been, for several years, no Sunday School in connection
with the Church. To revive this work, was Mr. L.'s
first undertaking. A few days after entering upon his
duties, he consulted with one of his female parishioners,
a prominent lady, who thought it a capital idea, and
one that should be carried into effect, without delay.

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             143
Now it appeared to Mr. IL., that this lady would be well
adapted to the work of Superintendent of the female
department. So he remarked to her, "Miss Bromley,
you will, of course, take sufficient interest in this work,
to allow me to name you as Superintendent of the fe-
male department ?" "O, Mr. Lovegood, how could
you think of such a thing! However, you are excusa-
ble, as you have been here but a short time. Mrs. See-
tary has been the Superintendent since I was a little
girl; and I am sure it would give her great offence to
be thrust aside, after all she has done for the Sunday
School, in teaching, furnishing catechisms, tracts, etc.
I hope you will not think of such a thing; indeed, it
will not do to offend Mrs. Sectary. I am willing to be
of any service in the Sunday School, but I can never
think of supplanting Mrs. Sectary."
"' But, Miss Bromley, Mrs. Sectary is a confirmed,
rigid Presbyterian'; and I do not see how she is to be
a Superintendent in a Church Sunday School, or how
she can consistently proffer to teach the Church Cate-
chisin. It involves an inconsistency that I can scarcely
conceive possible."
" But," remarked Miss Bromley, "we have no Church
Catechism in the Sunday School. Mr. Slow never in-
sisted on the Catechism's being taught; indeed, he gave
the whole management of the school to Mrs. Sectary,
in whom he had great confidence, as she certainly is
a very pious and exemplary Christian. Still, I believe,
if the Catechism were introduced, Mrs. Sectary would
not care, provided she taught her class in her own
way." Mr. Lovegood was a little nonplused. 11e
thought it best to change the subject, as it promised to


be unprofitable. And after remarking that he would
think of the matter, and exchanging a few common-
place remarks, he departed.
Poor Mr. Lovegood! Here was a poser. Such a
thing had never crossed his path. A Presbyterian lady
Superintendent in a Sunday School of the Church; and
Presbyterian doctrines, catechism. Hleigh-ho!
Mr. L. spent that evening in his study, reflecting on
his course, and maturing his plans. Here was a case
that required management. To break in suddenly upon
old-established usages, however wrong they may be in
themselves, is apt to breed discord and confusion. Had
it been a question merely between himself and Mrs.
Sectary, it would not have occupied his thoughts a
moment. But here, likely, a whole parish was to be
stirred up, at the very beginning of his labors; and
Mr. L. knew, that, although he would be right in taking
such a course, he might fail to convince the parishioners
that things ought not to continue as heretofore. So,
after mature deliberation, he called the next clay to
see Mrs. Sectary. He was kindly received, not, how-
ever, in the most cordial manner. He soon learned
from Mrs. Sectary what were her anticipations. She had
no thought of yielding the time-honored situation, which
had been conferred upon her in days gone by, by the
good and charitable old Rector; and, indeed, by way
of feeling Mr. Lovegood's pulse, she launched out in
unmeasured terms against the exclusiveness and bigotry
of a few semi-Papists, as she termed them, who had
sprung up of late in the Episcopal Church, who would
be so uncharitable as to unchurch other churches.
Mr. Lovegood permitted the old lady to be as wrathy

144

THE B L E M M E R O S; OR,

-L

r
C
rkt
t_
t
k a
}
t
I
5r
s a
}n
tx
4
1 t
i @
S, k
t
fs
4
1^
f 
}I
IYI
s
fi
a,
4
r
3
E
t
3
S
sl

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

145

as she pleased. He kept cool; and, before the confer-
ence ended, they were right good friends. And he had
so far ingratiated himself into her good opinion, not
by any shadow of concession, but simply by good man-
agement, as to have it conceded, that it was right, as
it was an Episcopal School, Episcopal doctrines should
be taught, and the Church Catechism systematically
used. Prudence in this case proved to be the better.
part of valor. Mrs. Sectary was to have a class in the
Sunday School, and there was to be no Superintendent,
male nor female, the Rector himself intending always
to be present, and take the oversight.
In a few weeks, every thing was under way in a
Church-like manner ; and, reader, would you credit it,
the old Presbyterian Superintendent had come down to
a small A, B, C class ! Othello was fast losing his oc-
cupation. And still more, Miss Bromley, Mrs. Sectary,
every body, was satisfied. It was not long before Mrs.
Sectary found, that age impaired her usefulness; and
she retired altogether, leaving the field to the Rector.
But we are ahead of our story. After parting with
Mrs. Sectary, Mr. Lovegood repaired to the church,
and examined the Sunday School Library. What was
his surprise, to find it filled with Presbyterian books,
tracts, catechisms, etc. Many of the tracts were ex-
tremely objectionable, as, of course, were all the works
he found, but especially the tracts; because, not content
with simply teaching Presbyterianism, they pointedly
assailed the Church in her Liturgy, offices, doctrines, etc.
" This will never do," quoth Mr. Lovegood. "The
books must remain, I suppose, till I can gradually work
them out. I can control them; but these tracts and


146

THE BLEMMERTONS; 0

catechisms must vanish." And Mr. L. deliberately
gathered them up, took them to the stove, and thrust
them in. Requiescant in pace.
Mrs. Sectary would have said this was sacrilege, at
that time. But Mr. Lovegood did not intend that they
should remain there, to disseminate Presbyterianism,
and that under his own auspices. Now it never occur-
red to Mr. Lovegood, that, as it was the season of
spring, and the stove was not used, he had better apply
a match to them. Ashes are safer than printed docu-
ments. The library had been closed for several years;
and no one knew what it contained, and a match would
have put those tracts beyond the power of revivifica-
tion.
On a balmy day, late in summer, some ladies visited
the old church, to revive pleasant memories of "auld
lang syne;" and a curious little child disentombed the
old tracts and catechisms from the stove. Ah, Mr.
Lovegood, you are to smart for this; it is certainly
your work. We know it. "And what a sin! What
a sacrilege ! Did you ever see or hear of the like ? All
these blessed tracts intended to be burnt !"  "Who fur-
nished them ?" "Mrs. Sectary; good Mrs. Sectary!"
"0 , me ! ah, me !" and the ladies came near shedding
tears over those tracts, that were so profuse in their
abuse of the poor Church. As precious relics, the cher-
ished tracts were gathered up, and borne in triumph to
Mrs. Sectary.
Now, reader, imagine the scene, if you can; and
count the anathemas that fell on the head of the uncon-
scious and unoffending young Rector, who simply de-
sired to save the lambs of the fold from the sins of her-

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

147

esy.and schism; to save them from the poison of that
tirade of abuse against the Mother of their love, con-
tained in these very tracts. The news flew about on
the wings of the wind. Poor tracts, ye came near the
burning; ye were even threatened with martyrdom; ye
made a narrow escape.
It was a long time before Mr. Lovegood knew any
thing about it. It appears that Mrs. Sectary, however,
took his part, and saved him in his defencelessness, by
saying that he had done right. "These tracts were
against the principles and doctrines of his Church: she
knew it, and she would do the same thing; she would
burn, and had burnt, every Episcopal tract that she
laid her hands upon, that taught any thing against
Presbyterianism, and she did not see why he should
not do the same thing." Bravo! Good for the young
Rector. It saved him many a scathing reproof and bit-
ter reproach. It satisfied most, but not all, the parish-
ioners; and the matter was quieted. Still, Mrs. Sec-
tary's opinion did not correspond with that of another
Presbyterian lady, who thought it a high-handed meas-
ure; rank Popery, and a development that should be
nipped in the bud. And she vowed, that she would
"see Mr. Nabob, and disclose the affair to him, and see
if some official action could not be had, to rebuke the
youthful David."
Now, Mr. Nabob was a vestryman of the Church in
lleartfulville, and deemed himself of considerable con-
sequence; more, however, on account of his wealth,
than any intrinsic cqualities of merit that he possessed.
And it so happened, that Mr. Lovegood had, not long
before, unwittingly offended the dignity of Mr. Nabob.

I


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  149

It had been the practice, from time immemorial, for
the congregation to remain in the church after service,
as well as congregate there before service, to pass the
civilities of the day, discuss the current gossip, talk
about the weather, trade, the crops, etc.; and this, with
all the freedom and hilarity of the highway or the mart
of trade. This had annoyed Mr. Lovegood exceed-
ingly; and he had taken various steps to put a stop to
it, without success. On one occasion, about the period
of which we are writing, discovering a great deal of
loud and boisterous conversation after service, he re-
quested an elderly gentleman, better known for the real
goodness of his heart than for any pretensions to the
suaviter in modo, to request the persons engaged in
conversation to retire from the sanctuary. Mr. Love-
good overheard only a few chance words: "House of
God,-not the place for such conversation,-set apart,
-sanctified,-out of doors the place." "Who sent you
to me, Sir ?"  "Your Rector,-Rector,--.too much talk-
ing,--too boisterous,-not Church-like !" It happened
that the aforesaid old gentleman spoke to Mr. Nabob,
and these chance words passed between the two.
Now, Mr. Lovegood did not ask him to speak to any
one in particular, and in his name, but simply supposed
that he would make a suggestion, as he passed along ;
and that his kindly suggestion, as he was a father in
Israel, would be taken in the same spirit. But Mr.
Nabob was highly offended; hence, when the aforesaid
Presbyterian lady revealed to him the intended mar-
tyrdom of the tracts, he seized upon it as a ground of
assault upon Mr. Lovegood.
"It was a high-handed measure," he said. " Their

rights and liberties were invaded. It was an offence
against law and order, and decency, and should be re-
dressed." Accordingly, at the next meeting of the
Vestry, Mr. Nabob brought a sweeping charge against
the young Rector, for destroying, burning, or attempt-
ing to burn, the books of the Church; books, too, that
had been presented to the Sunday School by so eminent
and pious a lady as Mrs. Sectary.
Mr. Lovegood recounted the whole affair, and -ex-
plained the principles and motives by which he was
actuated. The Vestry, quite unanimously, bore him
out, and dismissed the matter, as one which they had
no right to control. One of the body asked Mr. Nabob,
if he supposed that a Presbyterian preacher would al-
low our Catechism to be taught in his school? or tracts
to be disseminated there, which were repugnant to
Presbyterianism? This thought seemed to settle the
question; and Mr. Lovegood rejoiced, that a new era
was dawning upon his parish. He saw that his efforts
thus far had been blessed, and that a sounder, healthier
feeling began to pervade his parish. His Vestry would
sustain him; which, six months before, they would not
have done ; and this was to him a great comfort and
encouragement.
But Mr. Nabob was not satisfied ; and the story runs,
that he consulted an eminent lawyer, in a neighboring
town, to ascertain whether Mr. Lovegood could not be
prosecuted for his high-handed offence. The lawyer
laughed at him; and he returned home to annoy the
young Rector in other ways, and through other means.
For four or five years, he continued a system of petty
annoyances. Yet the Rector lived through it all; lived

48      THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

down his opposition, and lived to see the day that Mr.
Nabob cherished him as warmly as any of his parish-
ioners.
We need not pause, to recount the thousand and one
ups and downs, and petty annoyances, through which
Mr. Lovegood was called to pass. We have detailed
so much, merely in support of our postulate, that no
clergyman is free from trouble ; that, however pleasant
the lines of life may appear to be to the casual observer,
sin will arise in its strength, and there will be found
causes of dissension, and opposition, and strife, to fill
the pastoral heart with grief and anxiety. And now,
after many buffetings and privations, after long years
of toil, Mr. Lovegood, having breasted the waves of
ignorance and prejudice, finds himself, at the period
we are introduced to him, in a united parish, and
among an affectionate people, who understand and ap-
preciate the Church, and love him very tenderly, as a
man, and for his work's sake.
It was therefore not without pain, that he brought
himself to think of accepting the call to St.  's
Church; and yet, the more he thought of it, the more
did he feel disposed to accept it. But when he reflect-
ed on the number of years that he had ministered to
his present flock, the troubles through which he had
passed,-and, strange as it may appear, it is neverthe-
less true, troubles, afflictions, heart-griefs, do attach us
to the places in which, or the people among whom, we
have endured them,-the yearning love that he bore, to
his flock, and the esteem and veneration in which they
held him,--when he looked out upon his flowers, and
heard the familiar voices of the wrens, and the mock-

ing-birds, his daily companions, about his quiet study,
-above all, when he considered the sacredness of the
pastoral tie, now strengthened by the joys and sorrows
of years, his heart almost died within him, and he
groaned aloud in his spirit. But so it was, he felt
calledaof God.
Of this impression he could not divest himself. He
prayed for grace and guidance. ' In his full, ripe man-
hood, he wept like a child. But the hand of the Lord
was upon him. He could not draw back. He must
leave these pleasant scenes; and other hands must feed
his loving flock; other ears greet the melody of his
singing-birds; another's heart be lifted up in prayer
and praise in that goodly old sanctuary; another's
voice bless the people whom the Lord had given him
in his youth. The deed was done; and all eyes gushed
out in tears; all hearts throbbed in grief.
Ah, the pastoral tie ! few know how close, how dear
it is. We indeed see, day by day, that it seems lightly
severed. But ahi! the records of the Great Day alone
will reveal all secrets. Deal gently with thy brother.
Poverty and a hard struggle, the wants of a little fam-
ily, that have mouths to be fed and bodies tq be cloth-
ed,-a slender pittance,-these are, after al, the great
secret; a secret that contains more than we care to
dwell upon. But this consideration weighed not with
Mr. Lovegood. We merely throw out the remark, in
passing. He acted upon convictions of duty. None
condemned him. His parishioners, while bathed in
tears, conceded that it was his duty to accept the call.
Ah, the world is full of change ! There is nothing
certain here; nothing for man to fasten his thoughts

r

150

151

THE BLEMIATERTONS; OR,


152     THE BLEMMER TONS; OR,

i

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.            153
light shall bathe us in its effulgence, as we shout our
acclamation, "All hail! ye angelic hosts, and ye just
men made perfect! All hail! ye worlds of light and
purity! .All hail! eternity, with full, abounding love !"
and we shall hear that thrilling sentence, for which we
have waited long, "Come, ye blessed, enter into the joy
of your Lord."

1~

Ii

upon, and say, this is real, this is certain, this is abid-
ing, but his own immortality, and the word and will of
God. 0 how all things change, and pass away! We
move in dreams and shadows. We struggle up the
stream of life, only to be wafted back on the waves of
death. The soul only is real; it lives on forever. A
few more changes, a few more years, and the evening
will come, and we shall have gone to our long home.
And then what will it boot us, what we have been on
earth,-whether poor or rich, high or low, noble or
ignoble, learned or ignorant. What will it boot us,
whether we have had a hard struggle, have trod a
thorny, rugged way, been pierced with sorrows and
disappointments, or heart-chafings, or buffeted, or neg-
lected, or despised, or cast on the wide world, without
friend to soothe and pity, or the loving hand of mercy
to extend relief, or the pitying heart to solace and con-
sole? What boots it, whether we shall have lived in
ease or luxury, or been popular, or left our mark upon
our age, or our "track upon the sands of time," or been
caressed, or great, or set our name high upon the rock
of Immortality? what, we say, will it all be to us, when
that evening shall come, and we shall wrap our wind-
ing-sheet about us, and go forth unto the realities of the
eternal world ?
A few more years of change, gliding into eternity,
and the record will be written up (change will be over,
to us all) in the book of life or death, and revealed in
the light of that day, which none of all flesh shall es-
cape. 0 then to be clothed with the white robes of the
Son of God, will be our joyous preparation for that glo-
rious Temple where the Lamb dwelleth, and whose

{
i
r
{
K


154     THE BLEMMERTONS ORS

CHAPTER XII.
A DASH OF PRETENCE. PAROCHIAL TROUBLES. MR. LOVE-
GOOD S FIRST SERMON IN ST. Is.
THE Blemmertons were among the first to greet Mr.
Lovegood on his entering upon his new duties. "They
rejoiced that he had accepted the call, and that the
Church had been so fortunate as to secure the services
of so eminent a man." Mr. Blemmerton, especially,
feared, from the tone of Mr. Lovegood's letter to him,
that lie could not be induced to leave lleartfulville.
"And yet," said he, "I was not without hope, that you
would embrace the opportunity of leaving the scene of
so many trials.. I have for years been conversant with
the state of things in your parish; and I know that you
have had a great deal to contend with ; and truly re-
joice that at last you are free."
Now Mr. B. had of late picked up an old story or
two,'which had for years been forgotten or become ob-
solete ; but they were fresh to him, and important items
in the catalogue of his notes. A few of them he wished
to canvass, by way of sounding Mr. Lovegood's theo-
logical tendencies. But he was not fast enough for
Mrs. Blemmerton ; who, taking up his observation, re-
marked: "Is it true, Mr. Lovegood, that Mr. Flunks,
one of your Vestrymen, gave Dr. Thrasher, the Meth-
odist preacher, permission, in your absence, to preach
a funeral sermon in your church ?"    "I believe,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.             155
Madam, that such a thing occurred a number of years
ago ; but it has been so long, that the particulars have
escaped my memory." "Well, we heard it, and thought
it very strange. We heard, moreover, that the Rev.
Mr. Churchman wasofficiating for you, and was in the
pulpit when the funeral cortege arrived at the church,
and that Dr. Thrasher was highly indignant that he did
not descend from the pulpit at once, and give place to
him; that, moreover, he made a great many ill-natured
remarks, alleging, among other things, that the great-
grandfather of the deceased had contributed towards
the building of that church, and it was exceedingly
uncharitable to prohibit his descendant from having a
funeral sermon preached over her remains from that
pulpit."
Mr. Lovegood was indisposed to converse on such a
topic. He said that something of the kind had occur-
red years ago ; but he took no part in it, except to con-
demn Mr. Flunks, for granting so extraordinary a privi-
lege. He believed, moreover, that a sharp controversy.
had been carried on between the aforesaid Dr. Thrasher
and others, about the rights of Methodists and others,
to the use of our churches and churchyards for their
rites of sepulture and funeral sermons, on the score
that their forefathers had been members of the Church,
and had aided in building the church in Heartfulville.
But he was happy to state, that the Church was better
understood in Heartfulville than at that day, and all
tuch disputations and contentions had subsided a num-
ber of years ago.
Mr. and Mrs. Blemmerton thought it a strange affair !
But the world is full of strange events and adventures.

"'

c~L

. I


i

156

i

A thing called Puseyism had of late sprung up, that
troubled them not a little ; and they wondered whether
it extended as far back as to the date of that old quar-
rel in Heartfulville. They hoped to have the pleasure
of hearing Mr. Lovegood preach as their pastor, on the
next Sunday. They had no doubt they should be
highly pleased and edified. Expressing a strong desire
that Mr. Lovegood would visit them often, and make
himself entirely at home at their house, they took their
departure.
Mr. Lovegood entered on his official duties, on the
following Sunday;. and, as his sermon was published at
the time, we give it to the reader. It was entitled,
" The Pastoral Call and Duty," from the text,, Acts x.
29 : " Therefore came I unto you without gainsaying,
as soon as I was sent for : I ask therefore for what in-
tent ye have sent for me."
Love is the primary principle and motive of the
Gospel. God loved us, and sent His Son into the world
to redeem us, and to instruct us, by a revelation of His
will, through which He hath "brought life and immor-
tality to light." And it pleased the Son, in revealing
this will to us, to found, in His love, a Kingdom, which
He termed His Spouse, His Body, His Church, "the
fulness of Him that filleth all in all," in and through
which He manifests His mercy to the race of Adam
fallen, having sanctified it by His own blood, and holi-
ness, and the gifts of the Holy Ghost, by Him sent to
be the Sanctifier of the ways of Sion, and of the means
of grace, instituted by Himself for the world's healing,
and for our calling, election, and sealing, unto the day
when we shall be gathered into glory.

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

157

Hence the Gospel, taken in all its parts, is a system
of instrumentalities and agencies, every one of which
centres in love. The Bible, the Church, the Christian
Priesthood, the Holy Sacraients,--the one to com-
mence life, the other to carry it on,-and prayer and
praise, and Confirmation, and the employments of the
Sanctuary : these all are so many means of grace,
channels of mercy, through which the Lord vouchsafes
to us His blessings. Conspicuous among all these
means of grace and instrumentalities of the Lord's
vouchsafement, stands the "ministry of reconciliation."
Earthen vessels, indeed, they are, yet hath it pleased
the Lord to grant and appoint, that through their min-
istrations mankind should, be admitted into the folds
of the Church, and taught the way of righteousness,
that they might have a right unto the "Tree of Life,"
whose fruits possess an immortal virtue.
Such an instrument in the Lord's hands was the Apos-
tle Peter. Such instruments are all, at the present day,
in their several lots, who fill a part in the same Chris-
tian Priesthood, whether they be Bishops, Priests, or
Deacons.
A heathen, who had loved righteousness and sought
the light with all his heart, by earnest devotion, and
from whose darkened mind it had pleased the Lord to
lift the veil that shut out the sunlight of His will, was
directed what to do, in order that he and his family
might be saved. "Thy prayers and thine alms are
come up for a memorial before God. And now send
men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname
is Peter: he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do."
Comnelius was obedient to the heavenly vision, and sent

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

||

SIII


I

158

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

for the Apostle, who, when he arrived, as a man intent
on his mission, full of a sense of duty, burning with a
love of souls, and with zeal for the cause of his Master,
proceeded at once to the subject-matter in hand. Act-
ing for God, acting for man, in the absorbing question
of salvation ; holding an embassy from the King of
Heaven : these are awful trusts, tremendous responsi-
bilities, requiring a prompt decision, immediate hear-
ing, resolute prosecution.
Therefore, the Apostle delayed not to enter upon his
work. " Ye have called me unto you," lie said ; "I
have obeyed the call without delay, without question-
ing, as soon as I was sent for : I ask, therefore, for what
intent ye have sent for me
The motive of Cornelius was, that he might learn
what he ought to do, in order to salvation. Doubt-
less yours was the same. And with Cornelius you are
ready to exclaim: "Thou hast well done that thou
art come. Now therefore are we all here present
before God, to hear all things that are commanded thee
of God."
The light of the glorious Gospel bath penetrated
every hamlet, town, and village in this great land. It
beams around you, and shines out unto 'you, from the
pages of Divine Revelation. It is not then, so much
that you need to be told, like Cornelius what you must
do to be saved, but how you must do it. Your want
was that of the kindly pastoral office ; not simply to
instruct, but also to guide and counsel, to throw the
loving arm around the little ones, to go in and out
among you, carrying the words of love, and life, and
consolation; now cheering you in well-doing; then

I

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

159

solacing in sorrow; mingling together sunshine and
tears, and so building you up in soundness of faith and
holiness of heart, " till we all come in the unity of the
faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a
perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the ful-
ness of Christ."
You are not to hear, for the first time, that "Faith
cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God ;"
nor, " How shall they call on Him in whom they have
not believed? And how shall they believe in Him of
whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear
without a preacher?  And how shall they preach
except they be'sent ?" You are not to be told for the
first time of Christ crucified ; of the awful doctrines of
the Incarnation and Atonement; of Justification by
Faith, which kills us to sin and dead works, and makes
alive unto the law of good works in Christ; of Baptism
and the Supper of the Lord; of the Church and Min-
istry: all united in one, comprising the Word, the
Faith, the Ministry and Sacraments, the visible King-
dom of Christ on earth, with its invisible powers, and
graces, and helps, set forth in the world for man's sal-
vation: in short, all the primary facts of the Gospel
revelation. These are not for the first time to break
upon your ears, or enkindle your hearts to songs of
praise and thanksgiving ; for, in them is found the
motive that prompted you to send for us. It was the
love of Christ constraining you. You had faith in His
word and ordinances. You believed, that He had
appointed an order of men in His Church, and given
them commission to "go into all the world, and preach
the Gospel unto every creature, baptizing them in the

F


160

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Ghost," and that He would be with them unto the
world's end.  .
These all are Gospel motives, wise, holy, good, and
just. We trust that you have felt them, that you
have thought upon them, prayed over them, in the
silent watches of the night, in the routine of daily
life; that you have weighed them in all their bear-
ings upon the soul's destiny, and been fully actuated by
them.
But there are a few mistakes, to which we all are
liable, on this and kindred topics, against which you
may well be guarded. A consideration of these will
open to your reflection some thoughts on what you
have not a right to expect of us, and what you have.
1. You should not expect of us a half-way, one-sided
statement of Gospel truth ; but to preach Christ, in all
His fulness, as the Rock of our salvation, as He imparts
Himself to us, in and through the word and ordinances
of the Church: this you have a right to expect. The
proclamation of God's love to man, which is written in
the heights and depths, on things visible and invisible,
from the worlds on high, to the tiny flower that blooms
at our feet ; and which, from the Incarnation and Cross,
burst out in a flood of light and glory that embalmed
the world, consummated the yearnings and heart-
breathings of the race of fallen Adam, and filled the
measure of type and prophecy, and earth and heaven
with rejoicings: this great proclamation, we say, is all
too pure, too holy, too wonderful and excellent, to be
divided, or frittered away into shreds and tattered rem-
nants. But, to fill the measure of our needs and long-

F
r
.'I
c7
t
c .
,

is

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

131

.
t
F
e-
t
t
}
'
^
:
t  ?
S
'4
F'
. -,
, C'b.
"
}
y er
t

ings, it is to be presented and received as a whole,
compacted and knit together, beautiful in its oneness,
beautiful in its love and order, transcendently beautiful
in its sanctification.
2. Nor can you expect us to be a mere man-pleaser ;
a mere supplant for your favor and good opinion, at
the hazard of your souls' eternal weal. This would
debase us below the dignity of man, not to say of our
office. But, to please men in things lawful, is no less
the duty of Christ's ambassador, than of all other men.
And this, we take it, is St. Paul's meaning, when he
speaks of becoming all things to all men. He certainly
did not mean, that he wore a mask, and that his life was
merely a drama of hypocritical masquerading; nay, but
that he adapted himself, in things lawful, to the predi-
lections of his fellow-men. But in things unlawful, he
yielded,-no, not one jot nor tittle ; but stood as a
"beaten anvil." He drew around him the great gar-
inent of holiness, in which he was clad. Nothing in-
tervened between him and duty to the cause he had
espoused. Hence, to please men in things lawful is a
duty, springing out of the Gospel, and its sanctifying
civilization.
To -be complaisant, amiable, gentle, easily entreated,
ready to forgive, kindly and genial unto all orders and
degrees of men, are beautiful and becoming traits in
the character of the Christian gentleman. But to be
truckling, time-serving, and shrinking, to proclaim
simply "smooth things," to dally with the sins and sin-
fulness of men, publish a half-way Gospel, cry peace,
when there is no peace; to insist on a moderate, medium
piety, and strictness of life, that dare not lift their head


162    THE RLEMMERTONS; OR,

above the world's skeleton standard of morality; to be
merely a fashionable, fastidious, sentimental, dandyizing
proclaimer of the Divine Word, dealing in the beauties
of rhetoric and flowing graces of poesy, beating the air,'
and merely generalizing on the chief topics of Gospel
truth : ah, let it never be named, as becoming the office
of him who speaks with Christ's authority, and the
sanctity of the temple where the Lord hath set His
name, and where He will be sanctified and glorified in
all who come nigh to Him.
3. Every community has its peculiarities, or what
may be termed its peculiar phases or traits of sim, in
short-comings, in works, or in words. Man is, indeed,,
a sinner, and alike in sinfulness the world over. But
what we mean is, that in every community, among
every people, there will be found some peculiar type of
failing, of sinfulness, in doing or not doing, in positives
or negatives, over and above every other type, amount-
ing' to a characteristic. It may spring out of settled
habit, or fashion, or neglect, until from usage it has
grown popular, and so is lost sight of, in the general
whirl of the excitements of business, or pleasure, or
amusement. Still it is there; it exists, crippling our
energies in the Christian life, and dwarfing us in spirit-
uality.  And ever and anon it springs out from  its
hiding-place, and is seen and felt, as it sows sorrow, and
draws tears after it in its wake.
Against whatever short-comings of this character
may be peculiar among you, you will surely need to be
warned and guarded. For they are of a very insidious
character ; slow, stealthy, secret in their approaches and
insinuations, but inevitable in their disastrous results, if

a

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.             163
they are left to canker in the heart, or prey upon the
vitals of our spiritual life. These are, indeed, the
thieves of our spiritual existence and growth ; the small
commonplace, trifling sins, as some are pleased to term
them; such as hasty anger, and cursing, pride, and
emulation, and bitterness of feeling, and strife, and
tattling, and scandal, overweening regard to the world's
fashions and pastimes, conventional formalities, and the
like. These, we say, are like the thief unto the flock at
night, and steal away our spiritual life and' strength,
while we are asleep or dallying with our dreams.
On all these topics you may not expect us to speak
in uncertain language, or deal in vague and dubious
generalities. If we are to combat with the world, the
flesh, and the devil; if these are the foes over whom we
are to triumph, winning the crown of immortal glory,
or bearing off spoils of priceless value ; then it must
needs be, that we strike home blows on -solid matter,
and that we stand in our lot,girded about with faith,
"looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our
faith, Who, for the joy that was set before Him,
endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down
at the right hand of the throne of God."
4. Nor should you expect us to assume merely the
Shibboleth of party, in our teachings or counsels. From
the days of the Apostles, indeed, there have been
sharpnesses and conflicts in the Church, and differences
in opinion, and shades of opinion, sometimes on ques-
tions indifferent, more frequently on such as are serious
and fundamental, lying at the very foundations of the
faith. But the faith has been kept intact, and has been
transmitted to us. And an age of disquietude and agi-


164     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

tation in the Church is not, necessarily, an age of
unsoundness. Nay, it may be, and doubtless for the
most part is, a more pregnant sign of life. To this
truth the medieval ages witness. It was at no tempest-
tossed epoch of the Church, that the truth was over-
laid or smothered with error, (in any branch of the
Church,) but when she was freest from agitation, when
she was lulled into repose. What has been true of the
great empires that have flourished, and died out, has
also, in degree, been found true of the Church. Rome,
for instance, was not shattered and laid in the dust,
while "her conquering arms shook the world ;" but
when she became luxurious, easy, careless; when she
wrapped herself in her fancied greatness, and fell asleep,
dreaming over her glories and security. Then it was,
that her well-springs were sapped, and she burst asun-
der, and died out, leaving but the glimmering light of
a meteor across the hemisphere of her greatness.
It is true, the analogy cannot hold in all its parts;
for the Church has an undying life. She may suffer
from ease or indifference, or fancied security ; she may
suffer from false doctrine, or from needless agitation;
she may suffer for want of agitation and trial, to draw
out and develop her powers; or she may be torn by
fierce conflicts, even unto martyrdom; but she has
recuperative powers. She cannot die out, she must
survive all shocks. The Lord rules her, and in her;
and against her the gates of hell can never prevail.
While, therefore, we would eschew controversy, for
the sake of controversy, we are far from thinking it
always an evil. Like any other good, it is good in its
place, and bad out of it. By it, truth is elicited and

eliminated; and we are built up in soundness of faith
and knowledge. On the other hand, when it is prose-
cuted with acrimony, in an unchastened, unloving
spirit, it is an evil; and is to be guarded against, with
a jealous care and watchfulness. But controversy for
truth's sake, and partizanship in the Church, are quite
distinct; not, indeed, always in practice, but certainly
always in theory. The one, when pursued in a right
spirit, leads to conviction of the truth, to enlight-
enment ; the other simply tends to draw a film over the
mental eye, and to close it in blindness. The one has
watered the Church, as with the dews of heaven, from
the days of our Lord and His Apostles, who were the
greatest champions in controversy for the truth that the
Church or the world 'ever beheld, and out of whose
loving contentions with false doctrine have sprung as
many disciples and saints as the stars of heaven in
number, who have glorified God in their lives, and do
now rest in Paradise. The other has crossed the heart,
warped and blighted the natural affections, done despite
to the Spirit of grace and glory, taught one to say, "I
am of Paul," another, "I am of Apollos," until the
robe of Christ is rent, and the enemy of souls revels in
his hiding-place ; and his hoarse laugh, in solemn
mockery, rings through the.earth.
While, then, we shall not disregard the great ques-
tions of the day, nor close our eyes against the fact, that
this is a self-sufficient age ; that there is a radical spirit
abroad, which threatens the very citadel of our hopes,
and which, in its rationalizing unbelief, would tear the
diadem from the brow of Jesus of Nazareth, reeking
afresh with gore, and tramplethe volume of revealed

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.  165

9


166     THE BLEMMEETONS; OR,

Truth in the dust ; you may not expect us, in our teach-
ings of the great facts of Christianity, the doctrines of
the faith revealed from heaven, for man's salvation, to
assume any mere party badge or dictum. But, rais-
ing the standard of the Cross high above every aim,
every wish, but that which centres in a love of Christ
and the Church, as that Cross is revealed in Holy Writ,
and amplified in all the.teachings of the Church, in her
Prayer-Book, Articles, Offices, and Homilies; in their
plain, common sense, unvarnished letter and spirit, aid,
ed thereunto by the light of the early day of the Gospel,
which comes to us through those worthies of old, the
Christian Fathers, a "long and glittering line," who,
through tribulation and travail, and stripes, and watch-
ings, and prayers, and self-denials, preserved the faith
pure and unmixed with aught of error, and transmitted
it to us : this shall be our aim. More than this we
cannot promise ; neither more nor less than this can
you expect : this, by the Lord's help, we will fulfil..
The day for disputing on questions of mere opinion
has passed away. Other and weightier matters demand
our consideration. The Church has entered on a new
era ; an era,; it is true, of strife, brought about, as is
most usual, by a pressure from without. We have a
mighty foe to meet and combat, who, though lurking in
secret places for long years, has yet been gathering
strength and maturing plans. His banner is now un-
furled. His legions are in the field: we are already in
the strife, and are called to press our armor close about
us, and to draw our weapons, well-pointed, and with
certain aim.
This foe is Infidelity ; not simply practical unbelief,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.              167
but bold, defiant Deism, which strikes at the citadel;
which, as a vampire, would suck out the life of our
most holy faith, would wrest from man the rich heritage
of the glorious Gospel of Christ, and leave him a wreck,
without chart or compass, to be thrust out on the wide
ocean of eternity, without cheer and without hope.
This is our great work : it is a powerful pressure from
without, consolidating our strength and powers, shut-
ting our eyes against every question of minor considera-
tion. The time has come, when we must stand by our
first principles, as watchmen on the walls of Sion, giv-
ing warning of danger, and calling the faithful and
valiant unto the Lord's battle. Unto this work, then,
are we called. And from him that shall be true shall
no good thing be withholden ; to him that overconieth
shall be given to eat of " the Tree of Life."  No effort
of ours, however small, no labor of love or self-denial,
no fierce conflict with the enemy, no deed of charity or
Sympathy, no crucifying of the flesh and the spirit, shall
ever be forgotten of our Heavenly Father. The Lord
will write up the history at the last, and "from the
open volume of the Book of Life," and in "the full
blaze of the Judgment Day," will He crown us for all
we do, or suffer, or endure, in this great conflict for His
Name's sake.
You do not like that sermon. The chronicler cannot
help it. His duty is merely to record facts. He has
nothing to say for or against the sermon; and if asked
why he threw it in here, he answers, because it is a part
of his story. It forms a link in the chain of events be-

V;;


vi'

{
k

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

fore him. If you are not pleased, he merely regrets it.
It is a matter-of-fact production, from a matter-of-fact
man; and, for aught that I know, teaches wholesome
truths in a straight-forward way. Mr. Lovegood always
preached to his parishioners; not to mankind in gene-
ral. And his parishioners rarely mistook his meaning.
His style was not to address the world ; saying " they"
did so and so, or "they" were wrong in this or that ;
but "you," the veritable people before him, "you" are
wrong in this or that,-" you" do so and so.
There is, we opine, too much of this generalizing ;
too little of distinct, plain, straight-forward teaching,
whether of the distinctive doctrines of the Church, or
the practical duties of the Christian life. If we wish to
convince our congregations of the sin of worldliness, or
mammon-worship, or sins of the tongue, or niggardli-
ness in supporting the Church, why not tell them so at
once, point their sin distinctly out to them, make them
feel that we are preaching to them, and not at sins as
they prevail in the world? "They" do so and so, and
"the world" does so and so, and "the world" does very
wrong, or "they" do very wickedly. This is all very
well, perchance; and our congregations will accord
that "they" and "the world" are very bad; and they
will be not a whit better. It is all indefinite; it has an
unreal, impracticable sound. This is a practical age;
and mankind need to be met on their own grounds. If
you wish them to take what you say, to themselves per-
sonally, you must apply it. Men have not time to do
this for themselves.
Still you do not like that sermon; nor did Mr. and
Mrs. Blemmerton, nor Mrs. Fussy, nor Mrs. Nochurch,

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.

169

nor Mrs. Fastidious, nor "the rest" of them, to use
Mr. Blemmerton's language. But, perhaps they object-
ed to it, for a different reason. It is impossible to sat-
isfy all tastes in such a matter. Perhaps, had it been
more agreeable to your wishes, to them it would have
been still more unsatisfactory; or had it pleased you
less, it would have been to them perfection itself.
8

168


17O     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

;
I
,(
,,
;i
Ij
it
i{
;
ii
#j
E
i}

CHAPTER XIII.
THE GRANTNERS. REVELATION. FAMILY TRIALS.
BATr, situated in Somersetshire, England, about a
hundred and ten miles west of London, in a beautiful
valley, through which sweeps the river Avon, is said to
be the best built town, and one of the most attractive
in our mother-land. It is a town of antiquity, but be-
cam&amp; important, in comparatively modern times, on ac-
count of its mineral springs. And for many years it
has been a noted summer resort, and the permanent
residence of numbers of the wealthy and higher classes.
Here, in days gone by, dwelt Richard and Jane
Grantner. Richard Grantner had been a prosper'ous
merchant in London, and a man of prominence in the
commercial enterprises of that great city; but; having
amassed a large property, he retired from business, and
selected the beautiful town of Lath, as the home of his
declining days. Devoted members of the Church of
England, living for the good of man and the glory of
God, this pious couple descended to the tomb, leaving
after them a memory which yet lives, in the traditions
that have come down from their day ; and the genera-
tions that succeeded them yet rise up and call them
blessed.
In a fast age, forty or fifty years seem a long time for
"the memory of the just to be blessed." Ah, how soon
are the pious, the holy, forgotten! Even the tombs that

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.             171
contain their sacred dust, the consecrated ground that
holds their ashes, how are they rudely assaulted, or
desecrated by the grasping hand of this money-seeking,
mammon-worshipping age ! There is no time to dwell
on the past. The past is slow. Throw over the mantle
of obliviousness, sound the whistle, ring the bell, give
us steam, we must away,-away! There is no time for
rest, for reflection, for meditation ; no time to look -up
towards eternity, to count the sands of life, as one by
one they drop from our hour-glass. No: no time. Talk
to us about the present; the past is obsolete, the future
is in the womb. They present, that is ours; ours for
gain, for pleasure, for excitement, for gold. Give us
gold, or -we die. Ah, we live in an earnest age about
every thing of time; but, alas! we are not in earnest
about eternity. We want the spirit of the nobleman
who, from the depths of his soul, cried out, "Sir, come
down ere my child die."  John iv. 49. Here we see
the real man's heart, not in any half-way work, but
wlhole-souled, gushing and running out in deed and in
truth.
And is it not ever so with man, when he undertakes
a work that he intends to accomplish? IRun your eye
through all the avenues of life, and see if you cannot
point out the men who are going to succeed in their
undertakings ; and who are they but your earnest men?
They who lay their shoulders to the burden, who go to
work with spirit, and help themselves along by their
own indomitable efforts? All men are ready to help
them who help themselves. But take a mere drone;
one who trifles, dilly-dallies with his work, goes at it
half asleep, half awake ; who moves along as though

ii
i#

11


172

THE B-LEMMERTONs; OR,

11ijS
9I t
F
t
!!
1
'k {
lf
{f ll
iF
4
' f !!
'f11
J
} l
1E!
jjt
j
i
'il
l
'
r
i
iii
'f
r f

he aimed at nothing, expected to accomplish no-
thing ; and what is he set down to be worth? Just
nothing. He is accounted a trifler. No one is will-
ing to incur the risk, of helping him.  There is no
time for experiments. He has no credit in the world.
His note in the money market is no better than a piece
of blank paper. It is so the world over. Men have
keen sharp eyes everywhere, and a mere trifler is
worth nothing. He is of less account in this fast age,
than the airy bubble which the boy blows from his pipe,
and which dances awhile in the air, reflecting the sun-
light, and then bursts asunder and is gone; for that af-
fords some childish pastime and amusement. But, a
mere trifler cannot lay claim even to that.
This you say, is true. And yet we see not that we
need the same deep earnestness in spiritual things. We
are dying, and our sons and our daughters are dying. The
plague is rife among us. We must arouse from our
pleasing dreams. Our perishing souls must be held up
before us, sickening and dying for the healing medi-
cine which Christ alone can give, and which He hath
commissioned His Church to dispense. But, alas ! we
will not have it; we will not cry out for it. And yet
the day of the Lord cometh ; the night is approaching,
in which no work may be done. The Apostle hath
written, "For that day shall not come, except there
come a falling away first." 2 Thess. ii. 3.
Ah, this is an awful prophecy; and how is it fulfil-
ling at the present day! What a lamentable departure
do we behold from the faith, as with one heart and
mouth it was held and professed in the early Church!
And 0, how sadly have men, called Christian, become

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.              173
lovers of themselves rather than of God! Some deny the
divinity of the Son of God; some, the Sacraments of
His appointment ; some, the unity of the Church;
some, the endless punishment of the wicked, forgetting
that in the nature of the case, the character formed in
this life must endure forever. Some reject all myste-
ries; others cannot have mysteries enough without
manufacturing them. Some have itching ears, and run
after the fables of heresy and schism. Some profess
without practice. Is it a word of theory ? How many
listen to it gladly ! Is it a word of correction and re-
proof? How many turn away from it and harden their
hearts! Give us smooth things, they say ; delectable
diet for the mind. Let us not hear of the rigors of re-
pentance, or strictness of life, or soundness in the faith.
Every man must go to heaven in his, own way. Do
not all men act so in the things of this life? Would
you tie every man to your notions ? No: we will be
free. Give us not teaching ; but tickle our fancies. We
have not time for prosy dogmatizing ; it is too slow for
us.  Give us pretty prayers, and pretty preaching.
Abuse sin as much as you choose ; but let us alone. It
is not applicable to us. Let us dream  on, sleep on;
our dreaming is sweet ; our sleepis glorious. Sound
not in our ears that terrible sentence, "Awake, thou
that steepest !" And so, as the Apostle foretold, there
is a falling away.
The world called Christian is rocked in a cradle of
ease, and, like a sleeping infant, is fretful when:it is
aroused. Let us sleep on, rock on. Sing to us a lullaby.
Give us soft music and gentle whispers. But the blast
of the trumpet will come, and that lullaby will be over;

I
f
I{
77
f  '
t
{ j f
{ {
IS
fit
{
S
i
II
ii


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE,

;i
4  3i
{s
f
f
I S
i
i
i'
f k
T I
t  ,

the dream, past and gone. "Awake, thou that sleep-
est, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee
light." " The night is far spent, the day is at hand."
Richard and Jane Grantner had but two children, a
son and a daughter, who succeeded to the fortune of'
the father. Mary Grantner, at the death of her father,
who outlived his wife but a few years, was a sprightly
flaxen-haired  irl of ten years of age. Her brother
Richard was her senior by twelve years. On the death
of the father, the management of his estate devolved on
Richard, who was also by the father's will the guardian
of his sister, Mary.
After the first sharp affliction of the death of the
last of his parents had measurably subsided, Richard
Grantner placed his sister at a reputable school, at
Cheltenham, conducted by the venerable Dr. Gnout.
Here, the youthful Mary grew up, under the watchful
eye of her preceptor and his excellent family. Dr.
Gnout had grown gray in the service of training the
daughters of England; and many are the venerable
matrons that now adorn the English Church and the
" doctrine of God their Saviour," who reverence the
memory of this noble man, and sanctify it in the eyes
of their children. Every good influence, every holy ex-
ercise was here brought to bear on the youthful mind and
heart, 'to expand and train them for time and eternity.
In the bosom of this pious family had Mary Grant-
ner grown to woman's estate. For eight years, she had
been accustomed to look up to Dr. Gnout as her father,
and to his venerable lady as a mother. His children
were as her own brothers and sisters. But now the

time has arrived when these ties must be broken. The
young must, by an absolute necessity, go forth into the
world, to shape, under God's overruling providence, a
destiny for themselves. Richard Grantner was expected
the next morning, to convey her to her childhood's
home, to meet, for the first time, the strange faces that
lighted up her father's old mansion. Richard had been
married fur some years ; and now the old halls rang
again with the merry music of laughing voices and
prattling tongues.
That night, at an earlier hour than usual, Mary retired
to her chamber. Her heart was full, too full to enjoy
the society of her kind friends. Indeed, a heavy gloom
seemed to pervade all countenances, in that hitherto
happy family; for Mary was a universal favorite, and
loved by all the family as a daughter and sister ; and
there, in her own quiet chamber, she knelt before her
God, and poured out her soul in prayer for strength and
grace to meet her lot in life, and now to go forth into
the world no more a girl, but a woman, to fulfil a
woman's duty, and move in that sphere of usefulness
which seemed about to open before her.
Ah! sorrow is the portion of all hearts here below,
especially of those who bear the cross. Unto it were
they baptized when they were "made members of
Christ, children of God, and inheritors of the Kingdom
of Heaven."  They were baptized into the sufferings
and sorrows of the Son of- Man, that they might also
be partakers of His joys and crown of glory. We
would d Pot dry the tears of the young girl who is about
to go out into thp world to meet its realities, and espe-
cially of Mary Grantner ; for there is yet a mightier

rj
r
i
i!
,r(a
it
t
i;
{iF
Ali
1
l
t ji1
4

i
i  °
1  ,
,,

175

174

THE BL EMME RTONS; OR9


176     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

j ,
i
,.
g$,1
1J  ,
t,
1;
I,°,
t  ,  ;{
'I ,
i1i
'  !,
,' ,;
;
,i'!  t

; ,,
Ali
. 1j   ,
'l
i  i  I  i
i i
r '
i'
fl
i
j   i
I,
i
I
,,
i,
} i'
;,
'   ;I
!I
.
a    ;
I
I
, ,;
~
,'
f'
f
?jl
..
iiyl'
!
i  -
t 11 l
; I
.
,,
I
,i
.,
II
iii
i i C
i Ij ;
[
s;  II
;
I
i  ?
, i
t  f;i
i   t t
i { i ' f
'1 1
fff  j;
I
.,
,  I
;,
;,
;
Ii
I ft
i , k
ii
'
+I
; il
;'i
{
It
l :,

sorrow before her. She had been in her room more
than an hour, when the arrival of her brother was
announced; and she would have wasted down to meet
him. But, before she could assuage her tears, lie clasp-
ed her in his arms in her room; and they wept together
in joy and sorrow, and mingled their tears in one.
Drawing her to a seat, lie said to her: "Mary, I have
sad news for you; not, however, so much for you as for
myself; but I know that what concerns me, will also
concern you."  " Oh, brother, do tell me what it is. I
hope that my dear sister, whom yet I have never seen,
but whom I love for your sake, I hope nothing has hap-
pened to her or your sweet little Bessy and Bob. I
have been so sad all day, that my heart has been near
breaking.".
" No, my dear sister, nothing of that sort. Bessy,
and Bob, and dear Maggie, all are well. But, Mary,
your brother is a ruined man. You know, Mary, that
I have never been able to say 'No;' that I have always
felt obliged to do all the good that I could; that I
could never endure to see one of our friends or relatives
stand in need of a helping hand, without stepping for-
ward to his aid. Cousin Robert, you know, was driving
a large business in London; and, for the last six years,
I have been in the habit of giving him my name and
becoming security for him. Robert has failed, and I
am penniless. I do not censure him. He is as honest
a man as the world can produce. I had, you know,
unbounded confidence in him; and my confidence does
not swerve a hair's breadth. But, he has failed through
the failure of others, and I am a beggar. All my
property will not pay half my liabilities for him."

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.            t'77
"Brother, this is indeed sad news, but my heart is
lightened of a heavy burden. Our happiness does not
depend on wealth. We can be as happy in poverty as
in wealth. We cannot, indeed, do so much good, but
so much will not be required of us."
" My sweet sister, you are to me like another angel
of mercy. My own dear Maggie consoles me in the
same way. I know it is right ; and I bless God for
giving me grace to bear my trial, and for cheering me
with two such godly and sympathizing friends and com-
panions as you and my own Maggie. With your sym-
pathy and encouragement, I feel that I can breast the
wave. But ah me! how can I stagger through that
overwhelming debt, or see the name of old Richard
Grantner dishonored in London, where it passes as the
sign-manual of all that is upright and honorable."
"The name of Richard Grantner shall not be dis-
honored, so long as I have a cent on the earth. I would
beg my daily bread first !"
"God bless you, my sister! But it will take every
dollar we both are worth, to meet my liabilities for
Cousin Robert."
"Take it, then. And if that will not suffice, here
is my jewelry. Never, never shall the name, you
bear be dishonored, if I can save it. Poverty is no
disgrace; and I welcome it, if on such terms it is to
come."
" But ah, my noble sister, I must insist on your not
making such a sacrifice. Your property is all secure.
And you must not beggar yourself on my account. I
can buffet it through the world. But you I can never
bear to see brought to so hard a struggle, for my sake.

u

im


' j
!
F ' f
t  E
i ,
1
'  .
is
:

You have never yet buffeted your way in the rude
world. No, sister, I love you too well."
"Ah, you do not know me. It is true, I have never
known a want. But, I am a woman; and your name
and fame are dearer to me than dollars and cents.
Perish the thought ! I know it will be a sore trial to
us both, to see our dear old homestead and all our
father's toils go into the hands of others. But what do
you suppose he would do ? Ah, I know full well. And
if, in Paradise, lie can know aught of earth, my deed
will have his approbation. No, I can meet all. Fear
not for me. If need be, I can come to toil, yea, drudgery
and poverty, any thing but disgrace on our father's
name. This is the lesson he taught us, when his locks
were silvered over; this the milk which we drew from
the breasts of our sainted mother; this the loving teach-
ing which, for eight years, I have received beneath this
hallowed roof.. And I will be true to it. I will not
forsake you, brother. Your lot shall be mine. And if
you love me, say no more in opposition to my course."
In a twelvemonth, the magnificent estate of the
Grantners was gone. The debt of their Cousin Robert
was liquidated, and a few hundred pounds remained.
In the spring of 18-, Richard Grantner, his wife,
two children, and sister Mary, bade farewell to their
native isle, and sailed in a packet-ship from Liverpool
to the New World of enterprise and activity.
Mary Grantner became the wife of William Wallace,
and is the veritable mother of that little Agnes whom
we met under the lamp, and whose story has entered
into our former pages. We are writing from life. And
life, as we have said before, runs often in crooked paths.

And we have seen that Mary Grantner met her pledge.
We have not dwelt on all her story. There is a chasm
between her marriage and the evening that we found
her in that paneless upper story. Over this we pass, as
it is not the main part of our design to give her history.
But she fulfilled her high pledge to her brother. She
met toil, and drudgery, and poverty, without murmur-
ing, believing that it came from God, blessing the hand
that sent it, and looking up to Him for strength to bear
whatsoever He sent.
A sister's endurance, a mother's love: ah ! there is
nothing like these on the earth. Treasure them, who..
ever thou art that hast them. They are jewels, always
bright and sparkling, but most so when our days are
dark and friends are few. Nobody loves us as our
mother. No one sympathizes with us as our sister.
Alh me! I had a sister once, but she is gone; the
tall grass waves over her grave; her pure spirit dwells
in the Paradise of God. She died, leaving two babes,
two innocent little cherubs, but two years apart in age.
They never knew their mother. A frail, youthful, and
lovely flower: oh, how soon was she nipt by the icy
hand of death! And those little babes are now a prat-
tling boy and girl; but they know not their uncle. They
water the flowers over their mother's grave ; that is all
they know of her; she sleeps so quietly there. But
they yet shall see her and know her. Yes, in their
Father's home above, there will be no more death, no
more parting. Train them, Father, in their Spiritual
Mother's bosoin, and they will not be long separated.
They will go to her ; and angels shall introduce them
to their Mother. Nay, she will know them, for God

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

178

119

THE BLEMAIERTONS* ORg


ai
Ii
il
# 1

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

hath not given us affections to be forever blighted.
No, no, no: "we shall be satisfied, when we awake
with His likeness."
I saw her not in death; duty called us into different
spheres and fields. The last time I saw her, the part-
ing broke my heart. She clung around my neck, bath-
ing me in tears. I tore myself from her, never more
to see her in this life. The white-robed priest, a kind,
good brother, knelt at her side, while her pure spirit
went to meet its God. "My brother! oh, that I could
see my dear brother !" were among her last words.
Sleep on; blessed one; thou art in peace, and thy
brother is yet struggling on, doing our Master's will.
In His own good time we shall meet; and then, the
time will have been short: "A thousand years in Thy
sight are but as yesterday, seeing that is past as a watch
in the night."
And, then,, to be far, far away from home and friends,
and receive a mother's letter ! Ah! there is a joy in
this which all cannot appreciate. Hear how she writes:
"Though you are far from me, I must try to be resigned,
and commit you all to an all-wise God, who will ever
be over those who trust in Him alone; for 'vain is the
help of man,' and all things below are unsatisfying. I
shall try to write more cheerfully, though it would be
unnatural for me not to feel. And that you will admit,
and think me more than callous if I could do so; for
my thoughts will follow you, not always painting
scenes that are brightest. A mother will, as long as
life lasts, fondly cling to her children; yea, in death.
It is cold, cold here; a snow lies on the ground, while,
no doubt, you have spring weather: some beautiful

DOTTING BY TIE WAYSIDE.

181

flowers out, too, I suspect. Dear  , you must press
me the first pretty bunch, and send it in a letter; I
will keep it for your sake, and fancy you in the sunny
South.
" Half past twelve o'clock. No letters! sad news
for me. Still I hope on till to-morrow. But, Sunday
intervening seems to speak home to the soul; then all
week duties are laid aside. The heart holds even a
nearer and more holy communion with its God; then,
if possible, far off and absent ones seem brought nearer.
When we kneel in prayer, all the loved ones are re-
membered; memory is set free from all that is earthly;
and then we can bear them more fervently to the throne
of the Lord in our prayers. Sing, sometimes, the songs
you used to sing, dear -, for me ; and, when spring
comes, our voices may mingle in the air together. Tell
me what you'll sing at a certain hour of the evening,
and I will sing the same, at the same hour ; though far
away, there can be communion of thought and feeling.
You used to love 'When the swallows homeward fly.'
For your sake I sing it; and I often think of you, and
apply many of the words to myself."
Ah! our dear mother! It may be she may come
and see us. Come on, mother, come on!

180

S"it


DOTTINGS'BY THE WAYSIDE.

CHAPTER XIV.
OLD AUNT JUDY s DEATH. THE COLORED POPULATION OF
TIlE SOUTH CARED FOR BY THE CHURCH.
PERHAPS, of all his parishioners in lleartfulville, none
lamented Mr. Lovegood's departure more than old
blind Judy, of whom we have casually spoken. Old
Aunt Judy, as she was commonly called, had been a
family servant of one of Mr. Lovegood's early friends
in ieartfulville, a useful and pious member of the
Church, whose eyes, Mr. Lovegood, assisted by Aunt
Judy, had closed in death, some ten years prior to the
events of which we now speak.
Upon opening the will of the master, it was discov-
ered, that he had given Aunt Judy her freedom, and
had also willed her the house and lot on which she
resided, and a hundred dollars per annum, as a life
annuity. He had also willed his freedom to her grand-
son Jim, whom she was required to support, until he
was old enough to be of service to her. Not many
years elapsed after the death of her master, before
Aunt Judy was afflicted with blindness. She then
became helpless, and Mr. Lovegood added to her annu-
ity such items from the alms of the parish as sufficed for
her comfortable maintenance. She was remarkable for
good sense, strong attachments, and gratitude ; and one
of Mr. Lovegood's most delightful employments, was to
sit and converse with this humble old woman.
Reader, be not astonished, when I tell you, that this

fi[',''.
't{, ,  1
i '.  ,
+';
(}  If'

is not so strange a circumstance as you may imagine.
Condition, caste, does not raise a barrier insurmounta-
ble between the pastor and those of the colored race,
who, at his hands, receive the bread of life. There are
numbers of devoted clergymen, throughout the South,
who find great pleasure in ministering to the spiritual
necessities of the colored race, whose attachments to
the Church are very strong, ardent, and sincere, when
they understand her true position. And this they are
not slow in learning, when the true steps are taken to
make them acquainted with the Church.
Old Aunt Judy was a sincere, pious, and sound
Churchwoman, for one in her humble life; she loved
the Church for Christ's sake, and could take no comfort
in any religious service, apart from her own private
devotions, that was not sanctified by the Church's order.
Hence, when Mr. Lovegood resigned the pastoral
charge at Heartfulville, it filled her with sorrow. But
she 'had one consolation: "Massa Lovegood had prom-
ised to come back again on a visit, in the sweet month
of June, and talk about old times." This was old
Aunt Judy's theme, day and night. And as the spring
opened, and the birds began to sing, and the flowers to
burst into bloom, she seemed almost to grow young
again. And day by day was she led down to the
deserted study ; for she said she could "hear Massa
Lovegood's mocking-birds, and she knew they were
singing for him to come back again." This was pleas-
ure enough for her ; and there she would sit, by the
hour, on the steps at the study door. The days seemed
long, tedious. Tedious they were to her; for the blind
have a monotonous life: nothing but.reflection on the

i ;
,  '
;
i
z      ,
i  ri  !
4, ; ,
;i
{{' f i
f t{ i
,, ,;
I
:
,'  !
,  9
,,
,.
, , ',
{
;,
,
1 f '
i
1'
f1,,; ,
'
,
,
r,  .
,
,,
"FF
f ,,
,F

1,
S1i

ti
i

182

183

THE BLE MMERTONS; OR,

,'i
i {
!i
' i i
i f
{:
1
1
i",'
t '''
{     1its
IC
l r  s (


'Ft

181

THE 3LEMMERTONs; OR,

iij
It;
Si
i l

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

185

past, and communion with God, is left to them. T1
is indeed full enough. But, flesh and the spirit w 11
grow weary. So, day by day, Aunt Judy patiently
waited at the study ; day by day, the mocking-birds
trilled their notes as of old; day by day, the spirit of
Aunt Judy grew more and more faint. The children,
as they passed to and from school, always had a word
for Aunt Judy, and she for them.
" Ah, my child, Aunt Judy knows your voice, but
she can't see you. ' Praise the Lord, 0 my soul, and
all that is within me praise His holy name.' Ah, my
child, Massa Lovegood taught me that sweet Psalm,
long time ago. You are Massa D.'s daughter. Yes, I
know you; the Lord bless you! I knew when your
mother was.a little girl like you, and her mother used
to bring her to see old missus. I could see then ! Ah,
the old times, the old times !"
And so the time wore away sadly ; ah, how sadly,
for poor old Aunt Judy! It was now the middle of
June, and Mr. Lovegood had not yet made his promised
visit to his old parish. One day, as the children passed
from school, they called, as usual, to Aunt Judy.
There she sat in the same place, leaning against a
column of the portico; but she answered not; they
opened the wicker-gate, and went softly in, supposing
she was asleep; but ah, Aunt Judy was sleeping the
sleep of death! She held in her hand a newly-blown
rose, which she had plucked from the multiflora that
bloomed around her seat. She was gone. She had
grown weary of waiting. Hope deferred maketh the
heart sick. She had doubtless died, imploring bless-
ings on her beloved pastor.

Mr. Lovegood arrived in Heartfulville the next day ;
but, he was too late. His old blind alms-pensioner
was gone to her last, long sleep. Death waits not; the
aged gather their funeral robes around them, and they
are gone. It was a heavy bereavement to Mr. Love-
good ; for he loved old Aunt Judy, and had cherished
the anticipations of her cordial greeting. But now he
should greet her no, more, till he met her in that land
where the blind are restored to sight. Then, together
they should "see the King in His beauty !" And he
wept, as few weep at the death of an humble colored
woman. There being yet no Rector supplying his
place, Mr. Lovegood on the next day committed her
dust to its last resting-place.
His days in that parish, he said, had run through
so long a period with that humble servant of the Lord,
that he could not refrain from improving the occasion,
to hold up her example to the people of his late charge,
as one worthy of their imitation. He rejoiced to see
so much respect paid to departed worth, in the hum-
blest circumstances ,of life. It was no ordinary occa-
sion, that had brought such a concourse of young and
old, high and low, bond and free, to the Lord's sanctu-
ary. It was an evidence that Christian virtues were
reverenced in the lowly, as well as in the more exalted;
that the religion of Christ had a moral power and charm
about it, which all must cherish, however they may fail
in personal sanctity. The example of that humble
Christian would live long in the memory of all who
knew her. "The memory of the just is blessed;" "so
He giveth His beloved sleep." "I heard a voice from
heaven, saying unto me, Write, from henceforth bless-

I  1
1
i yJ7,
{.   2
Y7
ji
5 rt:}i
17  F, gl1pip
I w
t~7
i h4


186     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

ed are the dead who die in the Lord: yea, saith the
Spirit, that they may rest from their labors." Yea,
there is no more conflict ; no more fear of the enemy ;
no more strife with the flesh. They are called up high-
er. The spirit goes forth to participate in the joys and
fellowship of the Church Triumphant. There, released
from  every sorrow 'and anguish of earth, free from
dread of sin and temptation, the soul lives but to enjoy
the blessedness of Paradise, awaiting with patient hope
the Morning of the Resurrection, and the Day of Judg-
ment, when the history of the conflict between good
and evil, and of the triumph of the God-man over all
the powers of darkness, will be unfolded, and the dust
of the grave shall revive, immortal, and be " clothed
upon" with that body which God shall give it, and Par-
adise shall be thrilled with the gladsome sympathies of
an eternal fellowship. "Blessed are the dead who die
in the Loun." Think what it is to be with the God-
man Mediator ; not yet, indeed, admitted into the high-
est glory which awaits the redeemed, but still enjoying
His blessings, and rich foretastes of the final glory
which shall be revealed at the last day. Think what
it is to hear the melody of the heavenly hosts ; yea, to
behold, and with the great Hooker, meditate on their
" order and beauty," as they sweep their harps before
the Throne ; to wear the white robes, and await with
patience the day which is to reveal the secrets of all
hearts, and write up the full history of the world, and
the love that rescued man from ruin. Yea, "Blessed
are the dead who die in the Lord !"
" Earth is the spirit's rayless cell
But then, as a bird soars home to the shade.

DOTTINGS BY         THE    WAYSIDE.             187
Of the beautiful wood, where its nest was made,
In bonds no more to dwell;
So will its weary wing
Be spread for the skies, when its toil is done ;
And its breath flow free, as a bird's in the sun,
And the soft, fresh gales of spring.
O not more sweet the tears
Of the dewy eve on the violet shed,
Than the dews of age on the 'hoary head,'
When it enters the eve of years.
Nor dearer, 'mid the foam
Of the far-off sea, and its stormy roar,
Is a breath of balm from the unseen shore,
To him that weeps for home.
Wings, like a dove to fly !
The spirit is faint with its feverish strife ;
0, for its home in the upper life !
When, when will death draw nigh ?''
Thatcher.


F

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR'

CHAPTER XV.

CLERICAL TRIALS.

CLERICAL PLEASURES.
SCHOOL.

THE SUNDAY

A CLERGYMAN finds it impossible to please every one.
Indeed, if he appreciates aright his office, he will never
strive to do so at the sacrifice of truth, or a compromise
of principle. He remembers the Lord's warning,
"Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you!
for so did their fathers to the false prophets." lie
knows, that to be popular with all, he must speak
things pleasing to all, and .must soinewhere let go duty,
or the distinctive truths of the faith ; for, all men will
not bear to have their hearts torn open, their spiritual
deformities revealed, or the distinctive principles of the
Church plainly set forth, and at the same time admire
him who thus faithfully discharges his sacred functions.
Disguise it from ourselves as we may, there can be
little doubt, that the estimation in which the clerical
office is held by the sect spirit, acts in a reflexive way,
unfavorably upon the Church. Notwithstanding the
sacredness of the holy office, and the authority with
which it comes to us from God, and which are taught
and recognized by the Church, most fully and distinct-
ly, on the authority of Scripture, there is an under-
current of sentiment, borrowed from some of the phases
and doings of the denominations around us, pervading
the minds of many who profess and call themselves

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

189

Churchmen, which clings to and fosters the notion, that
the clergy are merely preachers, and preachers, too,
of the opinions of those who " hire" them, and pay
them their wages : a sentiment which throws the great
question of office, work, authority, out of view, or holds
it in abeyance, and which measures the man as man,
by a factitious rule, that finds its spring in the substitu-
tion of a perverted will, for the living truth of the liv-
ing God.
The fact may be verified, by the current modes of
thought and expression that pervade a parish, when a
clergyman first enters on the discharge of his sacred
functions. Each of his parishioners will have a fancy,
and an opinion, or notion, of his own. The poor Rec-
tor will be too high, or too low, for Mr. this or Mr. that.
Sometimes, he will be too strict or too loose, too fiery or
too prosy, too light or too heavy, too energetic or too
dull. Sometimes, he will be too pointed and practical,
or too airy and fanciful. He visits too much for Mrs.
A., or too little for Mrs. B. He has too much voice for
Mr. C., or too little for Mr. D.; and Mrs. E. declares it
is awful, she can scarcely hear a word, forgetting that
she is quite deaf, and that the clergyman cannot give
her ears. And if he- speak of such things too plainly,
he gives offence.
For one party, he is not graceful enough in his de-
livery, or he is too fast for Mr. Slow, or too slow for
Mr. Fast. He has not a pleasant voice to the ear of Mr.
Musical. Mr. Hard thinks nothing of a preacher who
does not make him feel as though Satan were at the
pew-door, and himself screwing up in the opposite
corner to keep clear of him; and Mr. Soft cannot

188

3
{
1
n
i


190     THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

endure that style of sermonizing; he delights in the
great outlines of the Gospel, in hearing sin abused, but
cannot bear to be made to realize that himself is a sin-
ner. "That suits A., B., or C., but I am not in the
category." And alas ! Mr. Soft and Mr. Hard, could
they both be pleased, would remain just the same, they
would be not a whit better.
Then, perhaps, the remiss Rector does not pay suiff-
cient court and deference to Mrs. Tallman, or Miss
Dasher. He is too ugly for Mrs. P., or too handsome
for Mr. Q., who is resolute in the assertion, that all
handsome clergymen are caressed until they are spoil-
ed; or, he has preached pointedly against worldliness,
mammon-seeking, and subserviency, or warned commu-
nicants against taking the world to their bosom, and
bowing before its fashionable requirements, in the mid-
night rout and merry dance, and thereby offended some
of the "upper tens ;" or, at some time, he has turned
his back on the people, and faced the altar, and by
some wise Methodistical body has been called by a bad
name. Or, after all, and worse than all, he has been
ground down by poverty, and a hard, rugged struggle,
while his parishioners have lived in luxury, and lavished
their thousands on the fashions and follies of a perishing
world ; or, his little family, growing up around him,
will have bodies to be clothed and mouths to be fed,
and he cannot help it, and desires a little increase of
salary : then, he is parsimonious, and a money-seeker.
Alas! these are unpleasant reflections ; they fall not
on paper with any degree of pleasure. We know they
are true ; and the reader knows the same, although
neither he nor the writer may have personally experi-

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.            191
enced them to any great degree. We write from life,
from whose book we take our notes ; and we make no
apologies.
The reader is already aware of two facts in the
thread of our sketch : first, that Mr. Lovegood would
find some crooked characters in his new charge ;
secondly, that he not only had the faculty of winning
the affections of the young, but also of commanding, to
a very high degree, their respect and obedience. On
the afternoon that lie delivered his first sermon to his
new congregation, a synopsis of which has already
been given, he made his appearance in the Sunday
School. He had a word of kindness for all the little
boys and girls; and he called them his children, put-
ting his hand on the head of each in turn, and asking
his or her name. He said, lie had no doubt they all
were good boys and girls. This pleased them very much ;
not so much on the score of vanity ; but that it was a
manifestation of confidence in them. If you wish to
influence children for good, never act towards them as
though you expected them to do wrong, but right.
This was ever Mr. Lovegood's plan ; and so, on the
present occasion, by manifesting this confidence in
them, he gained theirs, and won upon their affections.
" Now, boys," said he, " I know you are boys. You
can spin a top, make and fly a kite, play marbles and
ball, and bandy, and jump, and run, or turn a somerset,
like all other boys, can't you?" " 0 yes, Sir !" ex-
claimed they. " And you, girls," continued he, " can
play doll and baby-house." " 0 yes, Sir," said the
girls. "Yery well," said he, " boys and girls who can

L:Rr


192

do these things, can get good lessons for Sunday School.
So you see I shall expect you to be diligent, and always
to know your lessons well; to be punctual in your
attendance at school, and obedient to your spiritual
teachers, pastors, and masters, as you are taught in the
Catechism."
The children's eyes sparkled with delight, as they
retired from the Sunday School; and their little hearts
danced with joy, as they looked forward to meeting
Mr. L. on the coming Sunday. There was a bond of
sympathy between him and them; they understood
each other; he looked into their hearts, and they into
his; they loved each other.
But, one little fellow, Tom Jones, unfortunately mis-
took the point raised by Mr. L.'s remarks about playing
ball and turning somersets.  When, therefore, the
aforesaid Tom reached home, to the infinite amusement
of his parents and elder brothers, he deliberately drew
a chair to the middle of the floor.  aving carefully
inspected it on all sides, he stretched himself across it,
and gradually let himself down, head foremost, until lie
stood fairly on his head, holding himself in that posi-
tion by the rounds of the chair; having satisfied him-
self with this feat, in a moment he -trounced over on his
back, making a pretty fair somerset.
" There," says Tom, "I knew I could do it. I told
him so." "Tommy, my dear," said his anxious mother,
" what are you doing?  Are you crazy ?"  "No, in-'
deed, mother," said Tom, with a grave face. " Mr.
Lovegood told me I must turn somersets."   "Why,
Thomas, are you beside yourself?"  "Deed, mother,
he did," persisted Tom. "He asked me if I could do

it, and I told him I could. And I am only trying ;
for Mr. Lovegood told me it was my lesson for next
Sunday, and that all the boys must see how smart they
can be."
Mrs. Jones, it is true, had good practical common
sense enough to know, that Tommy had in some way
nmisapprehended Mr. Lovegood ; yet it pleased her to see
that son her was disposed to be attentive and obedient.
But it was too good a joke not to be repeated; and, as
most parents are fond of relating the naive tricks or
smart little things in their children, that throw out in
their estimation foreshadowings of a great future, we
pardon Mrs. Jones for seeing in this act of the afore-
said Thomas, the signs of a great Jones to be. That
day, wherever the delighted mother went, Tommy's
smart trick, as she termed it, was the theme of her con-
versation ; and, indeed, it was a pleasant one. But, to
Mrs. Jones's credit, we will say, that she had no thought
of making any trouble for Mr. Lovegood, or affording
for any one a ground of censure against him. She was
quite a good, consistent Churchwoman, not given to
gossiping nor fault-finding, always ready to esteem her
Rector "very highly in love for his work's sake." She
saw only Tommy's simple na'vets.
Notwithstanding, the poor Rector was not to be free
from the vials of wrath. When Mrs. Fastidious heard
of it, she exclaimed, "she was positively shocked !
Who ever heard of a clergyman's condescending to
such an undignified thing, as to talk nonsense with
children ! and she was sure they had all laughed right
out in Sunday School. Suppose Tommy had made a
little mistake; it was certain he did not fabricate it.
9

F 7171

193

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

THE BLEMMERTONS; 0i,


ODOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

Something of the kind must have occurred, and it was
too undignified to be tolerated. Dear me, what are we
coming to ? I'll ask Lucinda and Harry what Mr.
Lovegood did say ; and I vow, if such talk was carried
on, I'll send my children to Dr. Riproarer's Sunday
School.  Pd rather they'd be Presbyterians, than
sanction such doings; profanity, I had like to have
said !"
Mrs. Fastidious was certainly warm. Harry and Lu-
cinda, when called upon, related exactly what Mr. L.
had said, and how he said it. But it was useless ; they
loved Mr. L., with the rest of the children; but, next
Sunday, they were marched off to Dr. Riproarer's Sun-
day School.
These little cliques generally met to discuss the af-
fairs of the Church and nation at large, at short inter-
vals; not, indeed, by any set appointment, but acci-
dentally, and yet with marked system and promptitude.
The several members understood each other, sympa-
thized with each other, and so were sympathetically
drawn together.
Mrs. Blemmerton was pretty much of the option
of Mrs. Fastidious. "But it's the way these Puseyites
have," she continued, " of winning upon our children.
They get children attached to them by such means, at
least Mr. Blemmerton says so ; and then it is vain for us
even to try to make any thing out of them. Puseyites
they are bound to be !"
" Oh, me," said Mrs. Nochurch, "you don't mean to
say that Mr. Lovegood is a Puseyite, do you, Mrs.
Blemmerton ?" Mrs. Blemmerton was not yet fully pre-
pared to pass sentence on that point. " You know,"

continued she, " that we are very friendly with Mr. Love-
good, and he has been twice to see us, and is very anx-
ious to get Dele Airmyth to take a class in the Sunday
School."  "Ah ha! I see," said Mrs. Fastidious; "I
see !
"Never mind. Mr. Lovegood thinks it a good thing
to get young ladies interested in the Sunday School;
he thinks .it a stepping-stone to better things ; and I
think so, too ; and desire Dele to undertake it, very
much. But she thinks she can never awake and dress
in time to go. But I tell her, that I will have her
waked very early. At any rate, I don't suppose that
the Sunday School has any thing to do with Puseyism."
"Now I wonder ! Do tell !"
"Well, as I said, I do not wish exactly to give an
opinion. I do decidedly think that his talking to the
boys about such silly things was very reprehensible ;
but you must be sure not to tell him that I said so.
And as to Puseyism, I can tell' you only in a whisper,
that Mr. Blemmerton did not like his sermon last Sun-
day morning. We did not go in the afternoon; be-
cause you know we never do; it is so decidedly unfash-
ionable. And he said that Mr. Pleasants said, that Mr.
Wise said, that Mr. Flanders said, that that sermon was
decidedly unevan gelical. It was all about 'the minis-
try,' and 'the Church,' and 'the sacraments, and 'the
means of grace,' and the like. I profess to know but
little about such things, but Dr. Thunderer, you know,
the other night called all this the 'great sacramental
system,' which he says is nothing more nor less than
Romanism. And Dr. Thunderer is certainly high au-
thority."

195

i
{,
i
7
(
"
I
it
3
{;

II

194

THE ELEMAIERTONS; O RI

'
(!
,


196

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

The ball, it will be perceived, was fairly in motion.
Mr. Lovegood, his sermon, and his doings in the Sun-
day School, were all duly discussed by this little gos-
siping party, whose nature it was to complain of any and
every thing, if for no other reason, because,--and it was
a weighty "because,"-the whole management and
control of every thing pertaining to the Church was
not vested in them. And there are few parishes that
do not, in some shape or form, encounter this portentous
evil of gossiping ; a pragmatical, officious, intermed-
dling temper, that perpetually crosses the injunction of
the Apostle, "Study to be quiet, and to do your own
business."
We pause, not to dash into an essay on this theme,
though it be very prolific. Yet we cannot forego the
occasion to say, that a gossiping, intermeddling dis-
position, is a most dangerous and unhappy one. It is
ever prone to press beyond all reasonable bounds, from
idle tattling to the overt act of bitter scandalizing. The
consequence is, that the possessor of such a disposition
is frequently rendered miserable, by the reaction of his or
her own acts, and the merited rebuffs that they meet from
those whose rights they have violated, or whose useful-
ness they have impaired. And it is dangerous, because
of the many evils that follow in its wake, and especially
because the confirmed gossiper will ever be, on the
alert, looking for work in his favorite employment,
prone to seek it out, either by inquiry or surmise. And
then there ensues all the misery of tattling, and back-
biting, and false-accusing, vices pernicious to sound-
ness of faith and Christian morality.
A gossiping disposition is always unsettled, un-

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

197

steady, and not apt or adequate to any thing great or
noble ; or, if it succeed in developing striking traits or
powers in one direction, they will be sure to be obscured
or counterbalanced, by something that detracts from
them in another. A truly great and well-balanced
mind fastens itself upon specific and worthy objects,
and to these it devotes all its mighty energies, and con-
sequently develops and accomplishes great things.
Boyle, young in years, mastered the whole round of
philosophy, enlightened the world with his acquire-
ments, and yet found ample time to discharge his duties
to society and his fellow-men. He studied to be quiet,
attended strictly to his sphere of duty, did good ; and
his almost unbounded charities made glad the hearts of
thousands of widows and orphans. Boyle was no gos-
siper.
Bacon, on the other hand, also a master of philoso-
phy, a man whose attainments dispelled the falsities
and mysticisms of the philosophy that had swayed the
world, was tinctured, we believe, with a pragmatical
disposition, and debased his high office by bribery and
corruption ; and his great name, with all its honors,
descends to posterity with a tarnish upon it.
A gossiper is unsafe, and not to be trusted. A gos-
siper cannot hold or keep a secret ; and will therefore
be untrue, and not trustworthy. The gossiping spirit
is inimical to the Gospel, inimical to growth in grace.
Whoever is its possessor, bears about him or her, day
by day, a misery and an evil; a plague through life,
that may end in a plague throughout eternity.
But, we opine, that Mrs. Blemmerton never made a
greater mistake, than when she said Mr. Lovegood was

I

;i
,i
.
+

7
i 1
i
i
'
'1
t
!#
; 'fi
i l


198

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

anxious to have Deliah Airmyth take a class in Sunday
School. No such wish had been excogitated in his
brain. The wish and the anxiety were both on the
other side. Mrs. Blemmerton had proposed it herself,
assuring Mr. Lovegood that she "hoped Dele had a
decidedly pious turn, and needed only a little help to
be brought to Confiirmation; for she had wept the best
part of the night, about a week ago, and said, at last,
'Well, I believe I'll give up the world.' Now that was
a good sign. And she thought the Sunday School the
best training-sphere for a preparation for confirmation.
As to herself, she knew she was not good enough to
think of such a thing ; but she desired to see her chil-
dren pious, and Dele was at times so seriously inclined,
that she was anxious on her account. Julia Jasper was
too young ; she was not yet quite-seventeen. But Dele
was older than she looked ; and it was quite time for
her to assume a character of her own, and take a
decided stand. Her brother, had he lived, would now
have been thirty-six, and he was Dele's senior exactly
ten years." This was right good arithmetic, and we
suppose Mr. L. knew Miss Deliah's age.
Mr. Lovegood listened to all this, much as a man
would, who was compelled to hear something against
his will. Not many days elapsed, before, by mere
accident, he heard all about Miss Deliah Airmyth's
night of weeping. There had been a grand ball, to
which Miss Deliah was invited ; but, unfortunately, a
day or so before it came off, she, in running hastily up
stairs, accidentally hurt her foot, which immediately
swelled, and became very painful; and, refusing to
yield to all emollients, and the best of medical skill, it

;.,
;
"
;
,I
fi
,
i
r
tt
i,
r
ti
t;+
I;
r
{
N
i

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.            199
compelled her to forego her anticipated pleasure. That
was to, poor Miss Dele a night of weeping, indeed ;
but she shed few tears of penitence, we opine, except
in so far as she repented of running too hurriedly up
stairs.
Mr. Lovegood meditated on these developments ;
and, like a discreet parson, he kept his meditations to
himself.

,-
i
1
4
J 7
U
i it
I
:,
,a
,,
'

;
,;


i
Z
y i'
F
}
f jt
!i1
i
.i
i
+
i   i
l.j
i  :  #

CHAPTER XVI.
POLITICAL HUSTINGS. MR. BLEMMERTON BEFORE THE
PEOPLE. A SICKNESS WORSE THAN SEA-SICKNESS.
TIME, as it revolves on its great wheel, brings many
changes. And still the old adage, " Truth is strangeI
than fiction," is often verified. Mr. John Blemmerton
has of late grown wonderfully liberal. Money seems
no longer the leading object of his life. Indeed, it is
rumored, that of late he has been seen several times to
pause in the street, and drop a sixpence into the gaunt
hand stretched out for alms. He has been known also,
to put a quarter eagle into the bag, at a collection made
in Dr. Thunderer's meeting-house, to defray the ex-
penses of Dr. Orator to the World's Temperance Con-
vention, to be held somewhere, perhaps in London.
And, indeed, we may say it to his credit, that, although
he does not contribute, he no longer grumbles that Mr.
Lovegood takes a weekly offertory.
He is found regularly in his pew in St.    -'s
Church, on Sunday morning, and is disposed to be
quiet, though at the last election for vestrymen his
name was dropped. His Sunday evenings, as usual,
are devoted to the services of Dr. Thunderer or Dr.
Riproarer. And Dr. Riproarer has been heard to
boast, that Mr. B. had subscribed five hundred dollars
towards the building of his contemplated elegant meet-
ing-house, which, it is rumored, is to be supplied with

Li

an organ of immense power, and to exhibit a gilded
cross on the spire. And Dr. Riproarer does not hesi-
tate to publish this act of Mr. B.'s abroad, right-lustily,
as one of lasting honor and imperishable fame, and as
a token of the liberal, unbigoted principles of the donor.
In truth, take him all in all, in the world's eye, Mr.
B. is a decided improvement. It is true, he will not
contribute to any of the Church's appeals; has again
and again refused demands from the Church, to aid
feeble churches and missionary work. He pays his
hundred dollars' pew-rent in St.    's Church, and
that is all. But the Church goes on without him.
Outside of the Church, he is decidedly in advance of
himself. He talks much about the cause of humanity,
temperance, benevolence, and, as we have said, he is
right well disposed to assist with his means the popular
movements of the day. His name, consequently, has
of late figured largely in the papers in the dollar and
cent line ; and many flattering letters of thanks have
appeared in print, to Mr. John Blemmerton, for his
noble responses to the calls of philanthropy.
And Mrs. Blemmerton is more profuse than ever, in
catering to the demands of fashionable society. Her
parties are spoken of, as of the most " superb order,"
manifesting in their getting up the most perfect non-
chalance as to expense. In taste, in beauty, in magni-
ficence, they eclipse the city. In addition to her former
magnificent arrangements, she has converted a suite of
rooms into a grand dancing-saloon, in whose decora-
tions art, irrespective of cost, has lent her most exqi
site touch of elegance and refinement. And when the
glittering chandeliers pour out their flood of light, and
94

;II

t.
al
i}
k
f F
"'r
f{
( f
f;'
,'
i
i  I'i
{
; {
1
i

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

200

201

THE BLEMMEETONS; OR

=,
-
-
i=
.  ;


h.i

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

the exhilarating music floats over the throng, and the
giddy whirl commences, Mrs. B. exults in her success,
and receives with delight the plaudits of her guests, as
they compliment her taste and judgment.
"Miss Dasher declares tla this is equal to the days
of Athenian splendor and elegance ;" and "Mr. Weak-
in-the-Upper-Story thinks, that Mrs. B. has borrowed
from the Athenians, and improved upon their pattern."
Now Mr. and Mrs. Blemmerton, withal, were calcu-
lating people. They counted the cost; they looked
upon all these things as investments, which were to
bring back their interest. By them, Mrs. B. purchased
and maintained her position in fashionable society.
And Mr. B. had of late taken it into his head, that he
would not live in the world, without identifying his
name with the great men of the age, and handing it
down to posterity, with that gracious little contraction
"lIon.," added to it. Both he and Mrs. B. had long
since come to the conclusion, that "lion. John Blem-
merton" would read well in print. Mr. B. must go to
Congress. And the fact is announced, that, " at the
solicitation of numerous friends, Mr. John Blemmerton
has been reluctantly induced to allow himself to run for
a seat in the next Congress."  The dear people are also
told, of what they are undoubtedly already aware, that
the aforesaid Mr. B. may be fully relied on as the
unflinching friend of the poor man, and the working
classes in general.
We beg pardon of Jonathan Heartful, Esquire, for
having lost sight of him so long. He is neither dead,
nor buried, and therefore, "in the course of human

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

203

events," it is rendered necessary that he appear again
on the stage. Mr. i. had steadily pursued his profes-
sion of the law, in the city of    , and now stood
high in the estimation of his fellow-citizens. He had
never sought the popular favor, nor striven to win it,
but by a diligent and faithful application to his profes-
sion. He had been no whining courtier of the dear
people, and the dear people loved him all the more for
it ; and now he was designated, by almost universal
consent, as the proper one to take the field against the
new champion, Mr. J. Blemmerton. The candidates
are fairly in the field. The reader knows much more
than we can tell him, about the doings of an election-
eering campaign; and therefore we shall not attempt
to particularize. The rival candidates for popular favor
had frequently met at the public hustings, and discussed
some of the leading political topics. Mr. B. always
retired, sorely worsted and chagrined. And it hap-
pened, that, at a public meeting a few days before the
election, Mr. B., losing all self-control, took occasion to
allude, in unmeasured terms -of harshness, to the pro-
fession of his opponent, and his capabilities for the
position which they both sought.
"Lawyers," he said, "had ever had too much to do
with the management .of our public affairs. It was
time, he thought, that business men, who understood
the wants of the people, and sympathized with them,
who were the friends of the working-classes, had some
control in state affairs. We want no mote legal men ;
they are not the working-man's friend. They are the
friends of their own pockets, and know how to charge
exorbitant fees. Fellow-citizens," said he, in what he

202

iij
4  1
r#'
1 #

I

t
I ,
:   't
; l
!, .I
' 1
°
3 ,;

F
r
t
d
E
i
"   E
t
f
f
F
p
4
C1
r
',i


205

1

supposed to be an outburst of eloquent indignation, ''I
would scorn to take an undue advantage of the posi-
tion of my young friend, who asks your votes for a post
of dignity; yet, as I desire to serve you faithfully, and
you expect me to speak the truth, and know that I am
your friend, as for long years we have together put our
shoulders to the wheel," "Your own wheel!" cried
one unruly voice. "To push on the great car of im-
provement," "Of putting dollars in your pocket !" cried
another. "To aid in lifting the working-classes from
their degradation," " Rather to grind their faces," whis-
pered another. "I must say, that, looking simply to the
profession of our young friend, he presents no claim to
your support. If he concocted a law, it would be so
full of technicalities, that you would have to fee a law-
yer, before you could understand it."
Mr. Heartful deprecated the course Mr. B. had taken.
He abhorred canting and hypocritical masquerading
before the public. For himself, he had no promises to
make, no claims of which to boast. He had not sought
the position; and if he were not elected, he cared not
a fig. But, since his opponent had challenged it at his
hands, he would show up to the full gaze the fruits of Mr.
B.'s great love for the working-man. He here went into
a scathing account of the history of his treatment of
William Wallace and his family, beneath which Blem-
merton paled and trembled. Mr. H. said, that he re-
gretted it; but, duty to the true cause of man compelled
him to silence the pretensions that had that day been
put forth. " And this," continued he, "is the poor
man's friend! Alas ! alas! you say, for such friend-
ship! Go ask the widow and the orphan ; go ask the

naked and the hungry, spurned from that man's door;
then listen to what you have heard to-day, and compare
notes."
Mr. B. little dreamed of all this. He was caught in
his own trap. That story had come out.
Mr. B. was sick abed until a month or more after the
election. The phantom of distinguished honor was
much farther off than ever. He could scarcely see its
gaunt, skeleton arm, raised in the mist which seemed
to envelop it, beckoning him on. He gave up the
chase. Jonathan Heartful was elected, as the papers
announced, by a "tremendous majority." And we
may leave him in Congress, to shift for himself, and
sharpen his wits by a conflict with the wits of the great
men of the nation.

-m

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

lYf
!
'
y
!

I=re-

204

THE BLEMMEETONS; ORS


}1I
j
;'
S11

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

CHAPTER XVII.
A DEATH-BED AND A DISCOVERY.
Mus. WALLACE had been gradually declining, since
her kind friends had provided so amply for her com-
fort. Mr. Lovegood had long since made her acquaint-
ance ; and now was found daily at her bedside, minis-
tering, and deriving instruction and consolation, from
communing with the saintly spirit, clothing itself for the
world to come. We ever seem to be nearer heaven,
when, holding converse with the saintly one, who,
drawing near to "the valley of the shadow of death,"
must soon stand in the Lord's courts. It seems as
though we already stood within the hallowed " circle
of the redeemed" who "rest from their labors," and
partook of their beatific joys. And 0, how changed
is the aspect of death, when viewed at the dying couch
of the humble Christian, from what it is when seen in
one who has lived without God in the world, and passes
away without Hope beyond ! We have, indeed, seen
the wretchedly-hardened and wicked die calmly ; but,
there was no Heaven in that calmness. Stoical indif-
ference, or obtuseness, has no mark of the Cross. It
cannot be imposed upon us, for the impress of a sancti-
flied heart and will. It is not the hallowed calm, as of
angel-whisperings, foreshadowing rest beyond the tomb.
And we have seen one, whose sanctity was unques-
tioned, pass through an "awful baptism" of sufferings,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

207

shuddering over the grave, shrinking from death, its
cold embrace and icy touch, and piteously lamenting
a want of preparation.
It was but a sore temptation of "the evil one ;" for
that trembling spirit had, for long years, been braced
by the Grace of Immanuel. We never knew one more
lovely in her Christian character, more watchful, more
prayerful, more given to self-examination, more devoted
to all charities and good works. She had been a pat-
tern-woman, in all that was beautiful and attractive in
Christian excellence; and yet, when the "dread mon-
arch" approached her, the flesh was appalled, and the
spirit trembled, as it gazed, with undimmed eye, into
the awful profound of eternity.
Never shall we forget that scene. For long, weary
hours, did she wrestle with that temptation. She felt as
though she were deserted of heaven, and stood alone,
without hope and without consolation. We prayed
with her, reasoned with her, read to her the most thrill-
ing and cheering promises of her divine Lord ; por-
trayed to her the Cross, and the great redemption there-
on wrought, and the mercies by it bestowed, and the
mighty hopes and privileges which were hers, as a fol-
lower of Christ. And when the temptation was over,
she seemed like one who had passed through a great
conflict of afflictions. But, the "Sun of righteousness"
gilded all the rest of her way to "the dark valley."
She partook of the sacred symbols of her Lord's body
and blood, and received strength; and, as the clouds
rolled away, and the spirit breathed freely again, such
a radiant countenance, almost as if transfigured, and
such sweet, heavenly musings, we never beheld, never

206

t iii


r d
r
ir ,4
F t. -s
tit
{ zr
4 t
F'4
}i a
Ig
F  t
F         4
}
i'= 1
r            F
,g4ty
{
4
1l t,
a d "
F
jE
[ S}f
Idi
!4
j} t
'ISjf
it
4 FF

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

heard. It seemed, that the very chamber was bathed with
light from heaven, and that the spirit of the dying was
about to dissolve and pass away, in its kindred element.
It was a glorious evening in Spring, the Sunday
next before Easter. The toils of the day being over,
Mr. Lovegood was seated in his study, meditating on
the services of the day through which he had passed,
and the duties and employments of the ensuing Passion
Week, and "the great day," to which it is a prelude.
Of all the hours of a clergyman's life, his Sunday
evenings are, without doubt, the most pleasurable and
happy. 'Tis then, more than at any other period, per-
haps, that his heart is free and light and joyous ; not
that the day's work is done, but that he has added one
more effort to the labors of

that,

'The Sundays of man's life,"
"Threaded together on time's string,
Make bracelets to adorn the wife
Of the Eternal, glorious KING !" 

And his heart, so lately pouring itself out in prayer, at
the holy altar, in behalf of his flock, now gushes out in
the calm, quiet, hallowed evening hour, with joy and
thanksgiving for all the mercies of the day, and the
holy message which he hath delivered; and he meditates
with delight on that "Sabbath" of rest which is eternal.
Mr. Lovegood is interrupted in his meditations by
Mr. Friendly. Mr. F. is always a welcome visitor; but,
on this occasion, he brought painful intelligence. He
had just paid his usual evening visit to Mrs. Wallace, and
* Herbert.

Ir

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

209

found her dying. They hurried to the home of the dying
woman. Her illness had suddenly increased. And there,
on this hallowed eve, did Sarah Wallace partake of her
last Communion on earth. Henceforth, she will com-
mune with all saints in Paradise.
The commendatory prayer was said; and the faith-
ful Pastor remained to see the last struggle, and wipe
the death-damps that gathered on the brow.
The reader will remember, that, in a former chap-
ter, we spoke of a curiously-wrought antique silver cup,
which we saw in a cupboard at Mrs. Wallace's. This
cup, on the present occasion, by an apparent accident,
having attracted Mr. Lovegood's attention, he took it
into his hand, and, after examining it minutely, re-
marked, "lIt is singular, very singular ; but this cup, in
a mysterious way, revives old associations."
He looked first at it, and its initials, and then intently
at Mrs. Wallace : " How strange !" exclaimed he. " It
is now many years since I have seen any thing like it;
but I cannot mistake ; the impression is too vivid ; it
is the very pattern and style of my mother's silver
ware!
The dying woman, in hurried and broken accents,
informed him, that it was a gift from her mother, when
she was a little girl. The initial "G" stood for her
maiden name, Grantner. It was all that she retained
which bore any trace of the past, except the weary
heart, which was about to find rest. Mr. Lovegood
was deeply moved. His eyes filled with tears. Mrs.
Wallace continued a brief narrative of her past history,
seeming to be braced with almost superhuman strength,
in thevery grasp of death. She told him all the sacrifices

208

III


S
i '
a
,z f S
E;
i 7
i
it If
ti
7.
r
} 7
k7      5
7          f
i
i]-
k
9
f
{7s       {
i
51
tP
}j{i 3
i
= S
i
,
f

THE BLEMMER TONs, oR,

she had made for her cousin Robert, as already detailed,
prior to her removal to this country ; and, to render
those sacrifices more complete, her brother Richard had
died, shortly after reaching the New World. Bereft
of every earthly friend, she had shared the lot and life
of poverty and hardships of William Wallace. So long
as he retained his health, and poverty and disease did
not overcast their days, they continued faithful and
regular in their attendance on the Church's services,
and received the attention of the Rector of the church
in which they worshipped; but, the Rector dying, a
new clergyman succeeded him, and, his duties increas-
ing, they were gradually lost sight of, until extreme
suffering had brought them to the condition in which
they were found on that memorable night by Mr.
Heartful.
" And your mother," said Mr. Lovegood, "was Mary
Gould ?" The dying woman fixed her glazed eyes upon
him, and gasped for breath, groaning aloud.
" And I, and I," continued he, choked with emotion,
" am the son of your mother's sister, Grace Gould, who
married Robert Lovegood, your own cousin. 0 God!
wonderful art Thou in all Thy ways ! Verily Thou art
a God that hidest Thyself, 0 God of Israel the Sa-
viour !"
We intrude not upon the sanctity of that scene. When
the first gush of feeling, occasioned by the recognition,
had subsided, Mr. Lovegood gave her a brief relation
of his life in this country. His father had removed
hither, when his children were very young, bringing
them all with him except the eldest, whom he left to be
educated, and to engage in mercantile business; and

F

211

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

E
"
E
I
i
l
L

210

he died some years after his arrival, leaving an embar-
rassed estate and a helpless family. His mother turned
the remnant of her property into ready money, and
removed to the West. There, meeting with many pri-
vations, in a new and rugged country, she had, from
the force of circumstances and pressing duties, imper-
ceptibly become weaned from her early associations;
and, for a number of years before her death, had ceased
to have any communication with her friends in England.
Hence he knew nothing of the intervening history of
his relatives. All, to him, between the period of his
father's death and that hour, pertaining to the history
of his family in England, was a blank.
"And," continued he, "how providential, that that
old silver cup should have made such a revelation of the
past. Truly, the ways of Providence are mysterious.
And this is your dear daughter Agnes. Henceforth,
she shall be mine ; the object of my care and affections.
.Come to me, my child. I will be unto you a father,
from this hour, and make amends for the past. " 0
my soul, be joyful in the Lord !"
Mr. Lovegood cast his eyes upon the bed: the spirit
had passed away with that exulting sentence, and gone
on angels' wings to Paradise.. Death reigned. A
heavenly smile played a moment on the lips, which
seemed to hallow the scene, and proclaim that all was
well.
The Pastor, with a full heart, sunk upon his knees,
and poured out his heart in that beautiful prayer of the
Church
"O God, whose days are without end, and whose
mercies cannot be numbered; make us, we beseech


212

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

Thee, deeply sensible of the shortness and uncertainty
of human life ; and let Thy Holy Spirit lead us through
this vale of misery, in holiness and righteousness, all the
days of our lives: that, when we shall have served
Thee in our generation, we may be gathered unto our
fathers, having the testimony of a good conscience; in
the communion of the Catholic Church; in the confi-
dence of a certain faith; in the comfort of a reasonable,
religious, and holy hope; in favor with Thee our God,
and in perfect charity with the world :    All which we
ask through Jesus Christ our Lord.     Amen."
" 0 welcome hiding-place, 0 refuge meet I
For fainting pilgrims in this desert way;
0 kind Conductor of these wandering feet,
Through snares and darkness to the realms of day !
Soon did the Sun of Righteousness display
His healing beams; each gloomy cloud dispel,
While on the parting mist, in colors gay,
Truth's cheering bow of promise fell,
And Mercy's silver voice soft whisper'd, 'All is well.'"

I.

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

213

It I

CHAPTER XVIII.
FEMALE EDUCATION. CHRISTIAN NURTURE.
IT was not without counting the cost, that Mr. Love-
good had volunteered to pledge himself to the pleasing
task of becoming a father unto the fatherless, Agnes
Wallace. The ties of consanguinity, which he had just
discovered, rendered this a still more delightful duty,
for such he felt it to be.
Upon examining the family Bible of his deceased
cousin, he found a register, setting forth the date of the
birth of Agnes, and also of her baptism by the Rector
of        Church. And it only remained to him to
train her, as " a member of Christ, the child of God,
and an inheritor of the kingdom of heaven." He was
not long in discovering, that her pious mother had been
diligent in instructing her in the Catechism ; and, with
her amiable disposition and gentle manners, softened, if
not refined, by the trials through which she had passed,
this meek lamb of the flock of the Great Shepherd
needed only the fostering hand of diligence and love, to
become an ornament to her sex, a gem  among the
many bright jewels which adorn the "Bride of Christ "
Nature had lavished upon her, with no sparing hand,
the graces of a comely person, now bursting into
womanhood, and a mind which only needed cultiva-
tion to be expanded for a wide field of action in the
sphere of female usefulness.

i


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

We condescend not to the trivial office of a mere
flatterer of feminine virtues ; for we honestly believe,
that there is no virtue becoming in the gentler sex, that
is not equally so in man. Still we shall hope not to be
held to too strict an account, for expressing the opinion,
that most of the good to be found in this lower world
dwells in the heart of woman, and from thence issues
forth on its errand of mercy in the world; smoothing
the roughnesses of man's nature, mollifying his heart,
and causing light to spring up in the abodes of wretch-
edness, bringing tears of gratitude and thanksgiving
from  the hearts of the sorrowing. And woman, in
making those around her happy, sows with a liberal
hand seeds that are to vegetate and bloom in many
hearts, long years after she has been gathered to her
reward.
It is Sydney Smith, we believe, that says, "Mankind
are always happier for being happy now ; you make
them happy twenty years hence by the memory of it."
And so, a real, true woman, fulfilling her sphere on
earth, casting her bread upon the waters, from the full
hand of her charities, and the benedictions of her
heart, stands in the centre of a vast circle of delights,
that ascendeth from the earth up to the throne'of God,
and descends again, dispensing joy, and pleasant memo-
ries, and winged words, and deeds of love, and heavenly
blessings.
But, alas! how our modern notions of "fashionable.
life" have dwarfed her to a mere shred of what she
ought to be !
Mr. Lovegood, though not a parent, had weighed
the duties of the parental relationship in all their bear.

ings, and resolved to fulfil them faithfully, to the being,
of whose training, for time and eternity, he had assumed
the responsibility. He had little confidence in what is
termed a "fashionable education," in which the deep
cravings of the spiritual nature are neglected or over-
looked. And even thorough mental training receives
but small attention, in comparison with a few surface-
work adornments, which meet the demands of the
world of pleasure and fashion, such as dancing, waltz-
ing, singing a song, or performing charmingly on the
piano. Not that he would discard such accomplish-
ments and graces as adorn woman, but that he would
teach her, that her true destiny is to move in a sphere
more hallowed and ennobling, than that of the mere
devotee of fashion and amusement ; that to be great,
and good, and wise, and holy, she must learn to do
good, thread the needles of charity, make music in all
hearts; the hearts of the poor, the outcast, the down-
trodden of earth ; and so help the angels in their work.
This, he would teach her, becomes her much more
than to be a splendid and graceful dancer, or a mere
bewitching, captivating enchanter, winning to her side
a train of ardent admirers, not by the graces of the
heart, but by the often unreal, unsanctified blandish-
ments and adornments that are assumed for the moment,
only to be laid aside, as a soiled or useless garment,
when she shrinks into her real self.
A "fashionable " education is but a portion of the
grand scheme of Mammon. And what does a Church-
man want with such an education for his daughter ? It
is an education devoted to the beguilements of sin and
pride, in their multiform modes of compliance with the

215

i
F
f  7
)
,

214

THE BLEMAIEETONS; OR,

S'
f +
,
? i   i
T
i
t
t
[ '
r3'
'!i
E
tai   {
t
"
9
3 a
ktf
t
4
i
i
t
};
4
f
3   ,
.
'
)
h!s
r
Mi
i  -
ap
It
i
LLf
i

x  '
jIFIFVF1s)j
t
f
St
I
1
}
S
i
+}
f
'  S
+{{
f}R
j(!
r        { F
i
{
f
(I
t
{
1
f
I
t
i
3,
t

I

i


216

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

"fashion of this world, which passeth away ;" which
too often teaches our daughters, that to be accomplish-
ed, complaisant, and fascinating in a worldly sense ; to
wear, it may be, a mask beautiful to look upon, but
devoid of any sign of the cross, or of the real, whole-
souled woman ; is, after all, the main object of her
existence.
And yet, what but a schooling,-for education it is
not,-of this character, do our daughters derive in those
" fashionable " schools where the HOLY CHURCH enter-
eth not, with her sanctifying influences, and where her
system is not faithfully, fully, and distinctly carried out?
Is there any true heart-training in them? Is the spirit-
ual woman cultivated, developed, drawn out, and fitted
for a sphem of high and ennobling Christian fellow-
ship and charity? Is it not, at least, a schooling of
selfishness, that narrows down, dwarfs, blunts, and often
deadens, the spiritual nature, imprinting a lie upon the
heart, and setting a weight upon the conscience ? Do
not our fashionable schools aim, implicitly at least, to
make woman a mere gew-gaw, a gilded butterfly, to
bask a day in the sunshine of this world's smile, leaving
the IMMORTAL SPIRIT a sickly, drooping thing, unfitted
to meet the stern realities of life, or to go out into the
world to feel the great throbbing heart of humanity,
and sympathize with its pulsations, or to hear the low
wail of its voice, as it cries aloud to heaven for succor?
They who minister in holy things in times of calamity,
know how to look about them for the women of heart
and hand, and greatness of soul ; who can walk into the
pestilence, and banish gloom and despair, as they softly
move about the bedside of the sick and dying. But

I

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

217

ah ! how few, in comparison with the numbers of the
gay daughters of pleasure and fashion, are thus schooled
in works of mercy and love.
And now, will fathers and mothers, who drink at the
pure fountains of the Church of the living God, who
in Holy Baptism have consecrated their daughters unto
the Lord's service, turn their little ones over to the
world,-the meager, half-dead, starveling world,-to be
educated ? . Will they neglect the spiritual culture of
the souls whom the Lord will require at their hands ?
Will they neglect to expand the little hearts given them
of the Lord, to be trained for His honor and glory? or
to teach those feeble hands, which, in their helplessness,
are stretched out to them, how to bear the Cross? or
to train those little feet, which, without their loving
guidance, must tread on thorns, and mark their pathway
with blood, how to walk in "the narrow way that lead-
eth unto life ?"
Everywhere, north, south, east, west, does the ques-
tion of Christian nurture force itself upon the Christian
consciousness of fathers, mothers, sisters, brothers, pa-
triots, and philanthropists. The Gospel makes it ever
a prominent theme. And the Church-system, which is
the Gospel system, looks narrowly to the training of the
young. How guarded is our blessed spiritual mother,
in the nurture of the lambs of her fold. How closely,
and with what tender motherly love, does she press
them to her bosom! First, she brings them to the Font,
"the laver of regeneration ;" then, into the Sunday
School, where she places them under the eye, and hand,
and heart, of the Pastor, as catechumens, to be taught
the way of life, and what "holy things" they were

10

I

Is
ti

-1


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

made, and what holy blessings they received in baptism.
She calls upon the parents and sponsors, to train them
in their high calling and profession, to keep their vows,
promises, and privileges, ever before them. Then she
calls them to Confirmation, the assumption and ratifi-
cation of their baptismal vows and promises ; and from
thence to the Holy Communion, to feast on that heavenly.
food which the Lord vouchsafes to give for their life.
She would never leave them to chance, or the " educa-
tion of circumstances," but would ever draw them close
to her heart, and teach them that they are "Christians,"
very members of Christ's mystical body, and have them
nurtured as Christians, not feeding on the beggarly ele-
ments of the world, but on the wholesome nourishment
which the Lora gives through the Word, and Ordinances
of the Church; so that, like their divine Lord, as they
grow in stature, they may also grow in wisdom, and in
favor with God and man.
And 0 how lovely, how sanctified, is this system of
the Church, which from the Font never loses sight of
the holy privileges which, in the sacrament of Baptism,
were made over to our children, even that then they
were "made members of Christ, children of God, and
inheritors of the kingdom of heaven."
But, alas ! how lamentably is this great Gospel system
lost sight of, at this day of Mammon-seeking, by many
who stand in "the old paths."  And how are we to
expect a growth of grace in our offspring, commen su-
rate with their privileges, unless parents earnestly and
faithfully perform their duty ?*  The grace- conveyed

* Rev. Dr. M. P. Parks.

in Holy Baptism needs cultivation, in order to its
growth and development, just as the grain of corn
planted in the earth requires the diligent hand of the
husbandman, in order to its thrifty growth, and the
bringing forth of the full-grown blade and ripened ear.
Thus, cultivation must be given by the parent, in the
ways of the Church, or, like the poorly cultivated grain
of corm, which, though planted in a rich and genial soil,
produces but a half-grown, blighted, sickly plant, the
youthful "member of Christ" will grow up, bearing the
marks of blight, sickly, diseased, and unproductive, in
the spiritual life.
And if the child grow up in wickedness, dishonoring
its calling, tarnishing its white robes, will any dare say,
that no grace was given in baptism, no gift of the Holy
Ghost to profit withal ? Who censures the grain of
corn, or the soil, for failing, when the hand of diligence
has neither tilled, nor cut out the rank weeds that choked
the grain, and hindered its thrifty growth? Nay, with-
out doubt, the fault lies at the door of the parent, who
failed in the Chiistian nurture of the child. Let pa-
rents, then, who would be faithful to their solemn trusts,
give their hearts to this subject ; let them take an in-
terest inthe Sunday School, and, above all, in the strict
systematic Parochial School, and higher Church schools
and colleges, in which the every-day life of their children
is moulded heavenward. Let them watch over their
training, by day and by night ; see that they are duly
instructed in the Catechism, and in all other things that,
a Christian ought to know, and believe, and do, for his
soul's health. Then may we look for the fruits of God's
grace and Holy Spirit in Baptism; then may parents

218

THE BLEMAIERTONS; OR

219

3
i
1 ,g
1         t
ti
'i
i ,.
p
i
f
R
P
3
E
8
t
t
f
t
y
v
r
r4
s
t
sv
Z
f
1
t
It     K
i
, Ix
", f t
f1      t
.       1Y'     {
i
I
Y
rf
4
A
yx    .          1
I

k
r
i


220

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

expect tosee their children growing up in "the nurture
and admonition of the Lord ;" to behold them as "pol-
ished corners in the Temple" of our God; and see them
coming up around them, to fill their places in the Church
and the world, when they are gone. In them they
shall, as it were, live again ; their memory will be em.,
balnined in the lives of their posterity; their names shall
not perish from the earth.
Children are the hope of the Church; the gems, and
jewels, and treasures of the Gospel; yea, the Lord hath
said, "of such is the kingdom of heaved;" the sweet,
gentle scions that are coming up around us, to fill our
places, to stand before the Lord's altars, worship in His
holy temple, go out on the wings of love to bind up the
broken-hearted, to wield the powers of government, to
receive from us the civil and religious heritage which
we possess, and transmit it to the generations that come
after them. And O, if we look into the mighty future,
what immense issues and destinies, in the Providence of
God, hang upon the training which the rising genera-
tion is to receive now, while under tutorage and gov-
ernment. The day is rapidly coming, when the history
will be written up, of what we have done, of what we
are doing.
What Tacitus says, may be true of the productions of
the earth :-" Many things are sown, and brought to
maturity with toil and care ; yet that which grows from
the wild vigor of nature has the most grateful flavor;"
but it is not true of the things of divine grace. Our
fallen man's nature, from its "wild vigor," brings forth
that which is ungrateful, unwholesome, and full of rot-
tenness and corruption. But, as we have seen the un-

r

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

221

fruitful vine, transplanted into a more congenial soil,
spreading forth its branches, clustering with fruits, lift-
ing its head towards the sun, and living upon the co-
pious showers which fall from heaven; so, our fallen
man's nature, taken out of that fallen, unproductive
state, and planted in the Lord's vineyard, and there
duly trained and cultivated, is made alive and vigor-
ous, and productive of all good fruits, in the fulness of
the divine grace, and the care of the blessed Husband-
man, and the refreshing waters which flow from the
living fountain of Christ's love.
Such, Christian parent, is the condition of your off-
spring who have, in Baptism, been "planted together
in the likeness of Christ's death," if you are faithful at
your posts. But, all depends upon that. And the ques-
tion for you to decide is, whether you will train them
in and for Christ and the Church, or leave them to
chance.
" The stones which are appointed for that glorious
Temple above, are hewn and polished, and prepared for
it here, as the stones were wrought and prepared in the
mountains, for building the Temple at Jerusalem."*
- 0 Leighton ; and Coleridge, Aph. VI.

4
,
t+
1
fs
r            "
+          l il
v+
n
F l
j             Jill
d4}
}               rf
't1l
41
i
s
r             rill
'             t  I
xi
ti
}ts
-1                 r
1
7       3.
s;

I
i  er        t
f
i ,

.F


222     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

CHAPTER XIX.
A STOMACHIC CHARACTER. A DISCUSSION ON SINCERITY.
A 5sHAM COURTSHIP.
WE beg leave here to introduce to the kind indul-
gence of the reader, Mr. Benjamin Slocum Sapientium,
as we shall have occasional use for his good services.
Ben Slocum, as he was called, was the nephew of Mrs.
Blemmerton, and held the responsible post of an under-
clerk in- the establishment of Mr. John Blemmnerton.
He wrote a good clerical hand, knew how to cast up
accounts, make a close bargain, mark, measure, and
fold up domestics, and the like, and sometimes he
"did" the marketing ; but farther as to the said Ben's
mental calibre, this deponent would not like positively
to speak.
Public rumor, not, however, always a reliable au-
thority, persisted in saying, that the aforesaid Ben was
rather weak in the upper-story, had more stomach than
brains, or, as with a nameless scapegrace, perhaps his
brains lay in his stomach. Be that as it may, the afore-
said Ben Slocum had never made any stir in the world,
nor in any way come into public notice. He some-
times grinned, when addressed, by way of showing that
he was conscious of existence, and had a handsome set
of teeth, the only thing of which he could boast, ex-
cept his stomach.
Now, Dr. Riproarer had been preaching every night,

I,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             223
for six successive nights, a "big gun" sermon, with a
view of getting up a revival. Ben Slocum had been
attending these revival-meetings ; and it was but too
evident, that upon him an impression had been made,
either by the Doctor, or by Miss Sally Fastidious, a
young lady whom he took it into his head he was some
of these days to mafry, and whom he thought he terri-
bly loved, but who, fickle thing, of late received more
graciously the attentions of another suitor ; and, for the
past six nights, Ben had not had the pleasure of wait-
ing on her "to meeting."
This was a sore calamity, quite sufficient to cast a
young gentleman of Ben's aspirations into the Slough
of Despond. Hood's "Happiest Man in all England,"
when he plunged into the mud-hole waist deep, was not
half so uncomfortable as our unphilosopliical young
friend, whose surname by no means afforded an ample
key to his character. Mud is good, and may be ap-
plied to many useful purposes, but not such a slough as
that in which Ben now found himself. There was no-
thing at all good in it as to him. Beat it up, spread it out,
mould it into the form of bricks, dry it, burn it, cook it,
pound it; it was all the same, good for naught to poor Ben.
It was a great misfortune, as I believe my Uncle Toby
said about the cataplasm, in its connection with Tris-
tram, Susan, and Dr. Slops. But we cannot mend the
matter. Ben was fairly " cut out."  The young lady
had given hin "the sack," or " flat," or whatever else
you please to term it. Ben thought it the jumping
" flts." Ben was flat enough, that is certain. The age
of duelling had not yet dawned upon our world, or per-
haps, but for his st omach's sake, Ben might have done

ij
l   Ad

t-1

°;
,  ,
a:
a
;_
.
.;
4
S

'i
?
F
i' v
'
i
i;


224

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

1
t
r
Y
G
S     1
r     3
1
't
4
4
ti

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

225

something violent. As it was, "prudence" he deemed
"the better part of valor." But, poor Ben became very
melancholy; it was more than he could well digest,
therefore he talked about "getting religion," "doing
better," mendingg his ways," "having nothing more
to do with women," and a hundred and one other things.,
While this unpleasant state of affairs in Ben's his-
tory was the theme of discussion at home (he lived with
his aunt), Dr. Riproarer paid Mrs. Blenunerton a visit,
by way of returning the compliment that she had paid
him, in attending his "big-gun" sermons. He under-
stood Ben's case decidedly. He knew that lie was
"laboring under conviction," to use his own phrase ;
for he had all the symptoms of it, he said, as he had
often seen them developed. He was greatly concerned
in Ben's behalf; and hoped that he should have him as
"another seal to his ministry."
Query: was it Sally Fastidious, or the eloquence of
the Doctor, that had wrought so powerfully on Ben?
After the Doctor's departure, Mrs. Blemmerton
sought Ben, and said to him: "Ben, my son," (she
always called him her son,) "Ben, my son, what ails
you? You seem so low-spirited !" Ben did not know
what the difficulty was. Thought, perhaps, that his
liver was disordered. Had he said stomach, he would
have been nearer the mark. "Ben, my son," continued
Mrs. B., "you must be under ' conviction.' "  They all
were familiar with these phrases, from their frequent
attendance on the worship of some one or other of the
new lights. You have all the signs of it, as I have
heard it described by Dr. Riproarer. Indeed, Dr. Rip-
roarer just said so."

Ben could not tell; he knew that he felt very badly;
but he thought Sally Fastidious a fool, to have any
thing to do with that red-headed fellow, Bill Jenkins;
and he thought it would be a very good thing if he
could "get religion." indeed, lie had half a mind to
believe, that Sally Fastidious thought so, too.
"Well, Ben, my son, I'll send for Mr. Lovegood, and
have him talk with you on the subject."
This was beyond Mr. Slocum's comprehension. He
could see neither rhyme nor reason in sending for Mr.
Lovegood; and he aroused to the startling effort of ask-
ing, with surprise. "Why Mr. Lovegood? why not Dr.
Riproarer ?"
"Because, Ben, my son, you know we are Episcopa-
lians, and after you ' get religion' you may join what
Church you please. If you do not like Mr. Lovegood,
but prefer Dr. Riproarer, why you can join his Church.
But if you join Dr. Riproarer's Church without saying
any thing to Mr. Lovegood beforehand, he will be of-
fended with me, and blame me for it."
Ben persisted, that she need not send for Mr. Love-
good, declaring that if ihe joined any Church, it would
be the Presbyterian! He was, he insisted, bound to be
a Presbyterian.
Notwithstanding Ben's remoustrances, Mrs. Blem-
merton insisted on communicating the important intel-
ligence to Mr. Lovegood. There are always wheels
within wheels, in this moving world-of ours, and they
who do not drive, are often found in harness, pulling
along, with all their might and main, the great lumber-
ing vehicle, EXPEDIENCY. Or else they are bargaining
or bartering for running-gear, and freight to wheel

I

Tt
t rY
gl gl ,, 1r
S:.arr' z
bt
-      i
rtr
as
i
t
A #trf
Y r
rt
Ej 4s,
.il }
rf N
e

r


226       TILE BLEMMERTONS; oR,

over the turnpike of UTILITARIANISM. This is a cal-
culating world ; and Mrs. Blemmerton lived in a cal-
culating age, and was in fact a calculating woman.
She was, though of course, in the present instance, very
religiously disinterested as to a:l personal considerations,
apart from the melancholy condition of Mr. Ben Slocum,
apt to be found, either driving, or in harness, ready to
be driven. Either way, it booted little to her, so that
she made a good bargain, a capital hit, or a lucky spec-
ulation.
Mr. Lovegood, though with reluctance, obeyed her
urgent request, that lie would take the earliest moment
to see her on business of importance ; and in due time
he madewhc his appearance, at whic time and place the
case was duly opened, and Mr. Benjamin Slocum Sa-
picsen duwasplaced under his tender pastoral care and
' guidance.
was a case. Was it one of conscience or casu-
istry ? We wot not. Still it was a case as novel as it
was rare, and as rare as novel, in the Pastor's experi-
ence. There are times and circumstances in a clergy-
manl's life, which baffle, and almost set at defiance, all
the rules of experience, and the laws of ecclesiastical
usage, and which drive him to such resources as, in an
emergency, he may call to his aid.
For awhile, Mr. Lovegood was bewildered. He
scarcely knew what to do with such a case; the case of
one seeking to make good his calling and election in
the Church of God, in the ways, and through the means,
employed by the modern "revivalist" school. It must
be told, that Mr. Ben Slocum had been baptized in the
Church ; but alas ! for him, he had had no Church-

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.            227
training. His baptism passed for nothing, in his esti-
mation. According to the notions of some of the sects
whose views he had imbibed, or rather picked up,
much as a pairrot does the chance words that fall upon
his ear, he esteemed his baptism only as the customary
mode or fashion of adding the left-hand appendage to
his name, Benjamin Slocum; after which, like a bird
newly phuned, he came out fully dressed, and made up,
whole and singular, Eenjamin Slocum Sapientium, the
latter being derived from his father.
If the reader doubts whether we give a correct ac-
count of the view held by some of the Sects on baptism,
let hime visit the land of musquitoes, sunshine, figs,
and flowers, and we will put his hand upon a veritable
book, that will enlighten his mind on the subject.
Mr. Ben Slocum knew nothing about the Church.
How could he, when all his notions were picked up by
chance at some "meeting-house," (and we hope we
shall be pardoned for the use of that word "meeting-
house;" for, when a boy, we gave fearful offence by
calling a "meeting-house" " church;" we came near
getting our ears boxed; we promised never to do so ir-
religious a thing again ; and we have endeavored to
keep that vow, as sacred as that of an anchorite, in
memory of the old lady, who caudleized us,)-or, in
and about "Bleminerton House," and of course lie
knew nothing about his duties and privileges as a mem-
ler' of the Church.
What, then, could :Mr. Lovegood do, (and if any one
could have done better, we recommend him to do it,
should a similar case ever fall across his pathwvay,) but
throw him back upon first principles, refer him to his

_i{7
Ali;4

'p

rg
h
L
i'
41
I;
y
;i
c
I

x
F


IY+1
"s!

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

baptism and catechism; which, perhaps, he had never
read. He also furnished him with some proper books,
and otherwise gave him such general instructions as
were calculated to prepare him as a candidate for Con-
firmation. And this was Mr. Lovegood's mode of
"getting religion" for a young man. Mr. Ben Slocum
thought it a slow and laborious process indeed. Like
Naaman, he looked for some great thing to be done,-
a labor-saving mode; and lo and behold, there was a
pile of books to be read, and two or three pages of an
old, obsolete catechism actually to be committed to mem-
ory. But Mr. Slocumn husbanded his uncomfortable
reflections in his own bosom.
"And now, Mr. Sapientium," said Mr. Lovegood,
"if I understand your case, you desire to become a
candidate for Confirmation, to amend your ways, re-
nounce your sins, live a Christian life, fulfil your bap-
tismal vows and promises, and become a communicant
of the Church."  "Exactly so, Sir," said Ben. "I am
greatly rejoiced to hear of your determination, and
heartily bid you God-speed in it. It will be my pleas-
ure, from time to time, to afford you such counsel as
may be serviceable to you. It is indeed a beautiful
spectacle, one that raises the angelic song of joy in
heaven, to behold the young devoting themselves to
the Lord's service. I trust you have thought, and will
continue to think, on the greatness of the work before
you. Read the little books diligently that I have
placed in your hands, and make it a point to see me
often. 'Be instant in prayer;' for, without earnest
prayer, you can make no progress in the divine life;
repent of; renounce, and forsake your sins; expect not

r

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

229

to become a full-grown Christian in a moment. Your
holy spiritual mother, the Church, when she gave you
the baptismal waters, pressed you to her heart as her
own child, and henceforth recognized in you a member,
child, and seivant, of her Lord and Master, who is her
head and Fulness. If you have grown up, as I fear
you have, a stranger to her patlhs and ways, a stranger
to your Heavenly Father's house and home, and, like
the poor, wretched, prodigal of the Gospel, have taken
your goodly portion into a strange service, and wasted
it in sinful and riotous living, like him you must repent
of your folly, and return to your Father's arms and love,
with the plea, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven,
and before Thee, and am no more worthy to be called
Thy son.' St. Luke, xv. 18, 19. He will meet you on
the way, embrace you, put upon you the best robe of
His house, and restore you to His favor and love.
" The Church knows nothing of the popular, 'acci-
dental' religion of the New Light system. She is
sober, sedate, godly, relying rather on 'the fruits of the
Spirit,' love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, good-
ness, meekness, faith, temperance, than on the feverish
emotions of excitable temperaments, for the evidences
of a right condition before God. She expects you to
grow in grace, in the faithful use of appointed means.
Be not, then, I beseech you, carried away by the 're-
vival notions' that are prevalent. Seek to be a sober,
whole-souled, sound-headed and sound-hearted Chris-
tian, in the ways of the Church, which are as old as
the Gospel. Be not carried away by an ignis fatuus,
but 'hold thee fast' by the true light which burns on
the altar of the Church of the living God. We have

228

it
t4
it
Ftl
IN I
r?,r
jet
St
I

V ii
i4r
ii
At
A

8
E
s _
x
,
;
S'
4
i     '
j.c
_j
I
sf{$
?i i
;t tl


f''
;1fil
 it

no confidence in these systems of human contriving; a
religion made easy, like modern spelling-books, and
'done' in haste, meets not the demands of Scripture.
IReligion is a work of instruction, penitence, and holy
living, and prayer, and the subjection of the evil in
man's heart. Therefore, I trust that you will not allov
yourself to be tampered with, by these systems of a few
years' age and growth."
"No, Sir, by no means, Sir !" Mr. Ben Slocmn had
no idea of such a thing ! He had no faith himself in
sudden conversions, and as to becoming a Presbyterian,
that was quite out of the question. He did not admire
Presbyterianism at all.
Just now Mr. Slocum might -have been very sincere,
although he had made quite a contrary declaration to
his aunt. That is, he might, for the moment, have
changed his mind, a thing not impossible or improbable
in his case ; for Ben was unmistakably a man of idio-
syncracies  Be this as it may, Mrs. Blemmerton, who
had been listening through the key-hole of the door, in
an adjoining room, fearing that Ben was occupying a
ticklish position, thought it best, at this juncture, to
arrest farther proceedings, by making her appearance.
Indeed her patience had grown threadbare ; for she had
other weighty and important matters to bring before
Mr. Lovegood. And here the conversation between
the Pastor and the candidate for Confirmation came to
a close, and Mr. Slocum gladly retired. Nor should
we be surprised, if he were found before night, in the
predicament of another wight whom we wot of, who,
to get up an equilibrium in his stomach, (stomach in
the present case filling the plce of brains,) lay an

umbrella or a broom-handle across the top of a couple
of chairs, and amused himself with jumping.over it.
This is said to be a charming remedy for gout in the
stomach, ennui, blues, or any of their cognates. Jump-
ing is always a wholesome exercise, and especially so
for any of the foregoing "ills which flesh is heir to."
Fancy such a character as Ben Slocum, on a melting
day in August, alone in his room, coatless, hatless,
bootless, unstrapped, cravatless, with disheveled hair,
puffing, snorting, blowing under such a profitable and
edifying exercise.
-      Mr. Lovegood, who was in no secret, never suspect-
ing either Ben's stomach or liver to be in fault, was
.really obliged to Mrs..Blemmerton for calling his att.en-
tion to him.
Mrs. B. was perfectly delighted ; for, though making
no pretensions to religion herself, she was very desirous
that all her family should be pious, and she really
hoped that Ben Slocum would "get through," as Dr.
Riproarer said, soon, and "experience religion." She
had never "experienced" any thing like "conversion"
herself, or even "conviction ;" if she had, she certainly
would have improved it; but she supposed her time
had not yet come. But from all she had heard Dr.
i Riproarer and others say on the subject, she doubted
not that the aforesaid Ben was in a fair way.
Mr. Lovegood expressed surprise and pain at finding
one who called herself a Churchwoman, adopting the
phrases and notions of the Revivalists. "The Church,"
said he, "knows nothing of such dogmas; at best, they
only divert the mind from the very essence of true
religion, aim to develop a system of 'religion made

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

a.
if

,14
kl
1} l                            f
h)
.s                      J     1
C( T
irl x                      s
'r+
e'stx                      )i
h7
Ix
aF
V a4                         v
4 j;                         ns+
7
it {

r,
2
rj.
i
r
7
.C
9
1
fpj
C
" r

230

2fel1

THE BLEMMERTONS; OIL,


F

easy,' and throw out of view practical, working faith,
by substituting a flimsy shadow. It is my duty to
speak thus to you, Madam, though it be painful. Were
my position towards you any other than that of a
Pastor, I might withhold my sentiments, perhaps with-
out any breach of duty ; for, in a merely conventional
point of view, there is a spell, which mankind fear to
break, resting over their social intercourse and friend-
ships, and the heart is ever loth to trespass, where
every transgression is pregnant with humiliation, pain,
and grief. But my office raises me above such consid-
erations, and compels me to be instant in season or out
of season."
This went decidedly against the grain; but Mrs.
Blemmerton determined to maintain the equanimity of
her temper, and therefore contented herself with the
observation : " You know we are liberal, Mr. Love-
good. And there is Dr. Skyrocket, one of the most
popular and eloquent divines we have. He preaches
for the Presbyterians and Methodists very often, and
would, if he were allowed, I have understood, have
their preachers in his pulpit, and surely he cannot
think their notions so exceedingly wrong. Indeed I
have known him to attend their 'revival meetings;' and,
really, I think he enjoyed them as much as any one,
and looked as happy. And for our part we think it
matters not so much what one believes, or how they
'get religion,' so that they get it, and are sincere.
This is the opinion of Dr. Riproarer, who is, you are
aware, a very learned man ; and I think Dr. Skyrocket
must entertain the same opinion. People will differ,
you know, Sir. All cannot think alike.",

I

I

T HE BLEMMERTONs; ORS

233

232

DOTTING BY THE 'W.AYSIDE.

Mr. Lovegood could not answer for the opinion of
either of the learned Doctors; they were neither his
teachers nor Mrs. Blemmerton's. The Doctors are not
infallible, and they would be the first to deny infalli-
bility, even to the Church; ergo, they could not claim
it for themselves. And yet, with all due deference to
their "learned opinions," he was certain that the
Church teaches no such notion ; moreover, he was
clearly of the opinion, to say the least, that the Church
is nearer infallibility than the Doctors, and, conse-
quently, less liable to err.
"But aside from this, Mrs. Blemmerton," continued
he, " is that proposition true? You say you are liberal?
Liberal with what? You have a right, and are re-
quired, to be liberal with your purse! But where do
you learn in Holy Scripture, that you are to liberalize
God's immutable Truth, according to your understand-
ing of that proposition ? If man made his own religion,
then might he liberalize it as he pleased, alter, amend,
or dispense with it, at his own discretion. But, religion
comes from God, 'the Father of lights, with whom is
no variableness, neither shadow of turning.' Chris-
tianity descended from heaven, is divinely revealed:
what then has man to do, but receive it just as it is
given ? It was not given to exercise man's ingenuity,
in moulding, or amending, or altering, or adapting it to
his own predilections, but to exercise his faith, and train
him for the world to come. And he is required to
receive, hold, live upon, the Faith, as Christ hath
revealed it to His Church, and not on his own terms
and he is to be liberal in aiding to dispense it abroad
over the world, not in granting indulgences, ac-

4
fa r        t  l
a,          ,k
Ii             19
Ck           '63       ^
p                r
al             7        -
f
r   i           f}gj
k
af',
i,
1' 1                 ri4
pfl                  '
i
4i


234

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

knowledging error, heresy, or schism, to be the
Truth?
" And if what you say is true, that it matters not
what a man believes, so that he is sincere; then if he
be sincere in error, his error becomes to him the truth
and by parity of reasoning, on the same principle, it
will not matter whether he believes any thing. Is this
the 'Gospel Faith ? Is this what the Apostle means,
when he charges us to 'contend earnestly for the Faith
once delivered unto the Saints?' It cannot be. I
doubt not, that there have been good and pious men, in
all ages of the world, who were associated with some
shade or type of religious error. But will the piety or
sincerity of the man make his error the truth?  It
cannot, any more than holding the truth intellectually
will make the man holy and pious. Suppose a man
walks into your parlor to-morrow, seizes a valuable
article, and is about to bear it ofi; even before your
eyes, would you not say to him, 'Sir, that is my prop-
erty, you cannot take possession of it?' And suppose
he answers, ' Madam, I sincerely believe it is my right
and duty to take this article !' what would you argue
his sincerity to be worth, in contrast with the question
of right ?"
Mrs. Blemmerton shrugged her shoulders at this, and
looked wistfully around on the beautiful ornaments and
costly gewgaws that decorated her magnificent parlor.
The Pastor had evidently struck a rich and profitable
vein.
Ile proceeded:-" We republicans hold monarchy to
be wrong and tyrannical ; but it does not necessarily
follow, that all monarchs are either imipious or tyran-

I

DOTTINGS BY-TILE WAYSIDE.

235

nical. And so in the case before us, we deal with erro-
neous systems, not so much with men. And we say the
man may be a good man, and yet the religious system
to which he may be attached, may be very erroneous,
very unsound, in either one or both of two sins, heresy
and schism. Does it follow, that he should not re-
nounce his false system, or that we should not condemn
it? By no means. Truth, justice, charity, require it
at our hands, making it our imperative duty, to en-
deavor to release him from his error.
"It were indeed, then, strange, to say that it matters
not what a man believes, when he is required to believe
the Truth, and it is the Truth alone that is to make him
altogether free. Otherwise, what gain -we by being
Christians ? Would you say we had as well be Mo-
hammedans or Mormons? You dare not, and yet your
proposition leads exactly to such a conclusion !
"It is clear, then, Mrs. B., that it does matter what
we believe; that a man may be very sincere, and very
honest, and yet be in perilous religious error, teaching
heresy, and living in schism. And it no more follows,
that he should not renounce his system, and its errors, or
that we should not condemn it, and endeavor to lead him
into the embrace of the truth, than that you should not
denounce the man who would rob you of your property,
because he sincerely thinks lie ought to take it, or that
we should not condemn monarchy, because all mon-
archs are not impious and tyrannical.
"And see, too, to what this dogma of sincerity, and
'it matters not what a man believes,' as the sole guide
to the truth, has led, based, as it is, on the broadest
ground of the Latitudinarian Private Judgment sys-

i
a
,;
ti
F
'
.
f

.........._...o. .


236    THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

tem, every man interpreting the Bible as he pleases.
Has it not resulted in a multitude of jarring and dis..
cordant sects, each boasting, it is true, of its sincerity,
which we do not care to question, and yet each opposed
to the others, in a greater or less degree, on some vital
question of Christian doctrine; each going in a differ-
ent path; each holding a different faith in some partic-
ular; and yet, stranger still, each holding!your views
of an enlarged liberality, each clinging to this doctrine
of sincerity, as the talisman of truth.  Your theory,
then, must be wrong, or else there is a great amount of
insincerity among the multitude of jarring sects. For
truth is, and must in its own nature be, a unit; and if
SINCERITY is the only test of truth, then it follows, that
multitudes must have failed in sincerity ; in other
words, must have become wofully insincere, to have
produced such an array of opposing and conflicting
doctrines.
"3And what tower of strength can these contradictory
elements raise against any type of heresy or schism,
when its founders shall hurl back upon them this doe-
trine of sincerity, and inform them, that they have only
acted upon their example, done as they have done, in-
terpreted the Bible as they pleased, formed a system
after their own heart's liking, and claim to be just as
sincere ? Upon these contradictions and discrepancies
in professed Christian teachers, does Infidelity plant its
1oot ; and the hoarse laugh of man's great enemy rings
through the earth in triumph. For, what is the infidel's
prominent argument ? Does he not point to the mrim.
meries of the Riomish Church, and the discordant, op-
poing, and fragmentary elements into which the doc-

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              237
trine of SINCERITY has developed, and ask, in apparent
triumph, Are these the signs of a Divine Revelation?
Does he not tell you, that professed Christians do not
agree, as to what Christianity is, do not agree about
the interpretation of the-Bible ? and will they ask him
to embrace the teachings of a Book, about which they
are so fully disagreed among themselves?, One sect, he
says, tells him one thing; another, quite the contrary.
ie knows that contraries cannot be true. He knows
not which, who, or what to believe, and therefore he
ends in believing none, and so nothing ! He has no
conception of the truth; makes no effort to ascertain
whether there is a mode by which the truth may be
elicited. Taught by the latitudinarian school, lie dis-
cards the idea of the Church; and, seeing before him
nothing but a conflicting array of " churches," he simply
discards and rejects the whole, pleading in extenuation
the discrepancies between the various religious sects.
And hence, we think, are demonstrated two great facts;
that both Rome and Sectarianism are aiding, unwit-
tingly doubtless, in disseminating or fostering infidelity,
and that we who stand between these two great ex-
tremes of Christendom, afflicted, tossed, and agitated,
by many contentions, should the more 'earnestly con-
tend for the, faith which was once delivered unto the
saints.' Jude, 3."
Byron said he wished that Coleridge would."explain
his Explanation ;" and perhaps Mrs. Blemmerton, after
listening to this dissertation, stood in need of a similar
process.
She begged to be excused. She was no theologian.
She supposed that Mr. L. was right, and understood

IN tl
if
}
S,                                 y
4i
fi     1
Y                            s
ff''
F                             L
Y
t -

b  I

! a
i  °1
/ /F
#Y
h S
1
i.
5
,


Emu
fil
1I

such matters better than she did. This was at least
modest. And she would not dispute the point with
him. But she wished to talk with him about Agnes
Wallace.  She understood that Mr. Lovegood had
adopted her; or, at least, taken her in charge, and de-
sired to send her at once to a boarding-school. She
was really delighted, that the poor girl had fallen into
such excellent hands. From all that she heard, Agnes
must be a very promising girl. " ie have been much
pleased with her; Mr. Blemmerton especially. 'But,
Mr. Lovegood, it would be much better for you to get
married ; for then you could keep Agnes at home, and
send her to Madame Fanciful's school, where Deliah
Airmyth and Julia Jasper were educated. Madame
Fanciful is a grand hand to educate girls. She makes
them so accomplished; and that, you know, is a thing
greatly to be desired. It makes girls attractive in so-
cietv, and enables them to marry to advantage. And
in the case of Agnes this will be highly desirable, since,
poor thing, she will have nothing to recommend her in
the marriage-inarket, unless she be accomplished."
Mr. Lovegood never thought about her marrying;
and wondered whether girls were made for nothing but
to get married.
"Now," continued Mrs. B., "there is Deliah Air-
myth: she has already had a number of fine offers;
but we did not exactly fancy any of them. The truth
is, Mr. L., we think Dele cut out for something above
the common walks of life. Moreover, you know, she
has no occasion to seek a match for wealth : that is a
great comfort; for, her father is ready to give her two
hundred thousand dollars the day she is married. All

she needs is the right one. And I tell Dele the right
one will come along after a while; for, I believe certain
people are made for each other, as my mother, who al-
ways spoke Bible truth, used to tell me, 'Matches are
nmlde in Heaven.'
Two hundred thousand dollars,-a pretty round sum;
quite comfortable in "hard times ;" pretty good that,
to, for a poor clergyman. Wonder whether Mr. Love-
g od was dumb?    how many poor clergymen would
be made happy with the two-hundredth part of it per
"While I think of it," said the benevolent lady, "I
will just show you a piece of work, Mr. Lovegood, that
IDele has made for you, as a New Year's gift,"-laying
a very significant stress on "you."
It was a velvet sermon holder, with a handsome cross
in gold beads, and a wreath beautifully wrought about
it on each side. Bringing it in, she continued: " Dele
is a girl of taste and judgment; and we are highly
pleased to see her take an interest in such matters, and
. especially in the Parson. We think it always a token
of good taste, to see the young folks take an interest in
the clergyman, especially one who is unmarried, for he
has no one to prepare such pretty little things for him."
Mr. Lovegood thought the thing much too fine for him.
ie (lid not know what he would do with it.
Smile, if you please! But what better could he have
aild ?
"0 dear, Mr. Lovegood, you must not say so. Dele
would cry her eyes out. She thinks nothing fine enough
for you. Poor thing, she would sit up all night, and
work her fingers to the quick, to make it ten times finer,

THE BLEMMERToNs; OR,

238

239

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

J'  I -,
Y
I                    1
it
y                             7
3      y
f                              I
Y     !
p                         5
S                          $,
4f


240

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

if she could. We never had a Pastor that Dole - ah!
well ! -thought so much of as she does of Mr. Love-
good."
About this time, we should not be surprised, if Mr.
L. got a little alarmed. Two hundred thousand dollars,
a splendid sermon-holder to come at New Year's,-up
all night, fingers worked to the quick, so highly es-
teemed, too; enough, all this, to turn the head of any
ordinary bachelor.
Mr. Lovegood was a bachelor; not, however, we
opine, so high and dry as to be past cure. By no
means; he was a man just bordering on his fortieth
year. Think of it; and we have been calling him an
old bachelor. We ask his pardon, and Mrs. Blemmer-
ton's too, for undervaluing her better judgment and
acumen.

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

241

CHAPTER XX.
DxCK-SHOOTING. A WILD-GOOSE CHASE, IN WHICH DR.
RIPROARER WILL PLAY A PART.
A WILD-GOOSE chase ! Pshaw, what of it? One half
of the world is engaged in just such a chase ; and the
other half is either looking on, or helping!
But, we opine, it is not half so pleasant as duck-
shooting or angling. We never tried a wild-goose chase
but once, unless it was when we undertook this quondam
/ work of writing Life Experiences,. and then only got
terribly scratched and torn with briers, and had a sum-
mary " ducking" for our pains.
But the most pleasant thing in which we ever en-
gaged, was duck-shooting. When we were quite a boy,
our father resided near a beautiful, poetic sheet of water;
one of those charming rivers which tide up from the
noble Chesapeake. This little river sweeps through
one of the most productive, highly improved, and at-
tractive districts of Maryland. It is a beautiful, wind-
ing streak, whose banks are trimmed with majestic
oaks, and numerous other forest trees; and ever and
anon, as you sail over it, or "glide along in the light
canoe," you behold a fine old mansion, standing off in
its stateliness, upon some commanding eminence, in,
full view of the river, with its time-worn locusts or tall
Lombardy poplars, standing around, as so many guards
on duty, looking down with apparent disdain on the
11

IA

H

f
E
y
_
f
}
S
i
t
F
e    1
'-

" t^ '
;r4
F.
8Xs'x
,re
ram~
re

S


242     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

humbler shrubbery and fruit-trees, which dot the yard,
or, in rows, stretch off to the margin of the river.
Many a pleasant summer's evening have I sat in my
father's bateau, with a company of three or four more
alers, under the shadow of some spreading oak, which
was cast over the water, seemingly to protect us from
the scorching rays of the sun; and there, for hours,
have enjoyed the sport which was so congenial to good
old Izaak Walton, of blessed " piscatory memory."
Al, I remember those days of my boyhood, with
mingled emotions of sadness and pleasure. They can
never return. They are gone ; and the light-hearted
boy, who used to linger about thy waters, noble, placid
little river ! lie, too, is gone, far, far away. There is
but one scene that surpasses, in my estimation, the
charms of this noble little river,-the striking beauties
of the Hudson. The Hudson is indeed grander, more
majestic and awe-inspiring, but not so charmingly sim-
pie and modest.
Who has ever passed up the noble Hudson, borne
along upon one of her splendid steam-palaces, with
heart so callousto the enchanting beauties of nature
and art, as not to feel the inspiration of the majestic
scenery which, on all sides, greets the eye ? The
beautiful village, the exquisite cottage, the granite hill,
the mimic and picturesque mountain the blue outline
of the Catskill, towering in the distance, and almost
seeming to kiss the sky, the elegant summer residence,
with its sloping lawn carpeted in green, dropping down
to the water's edge, and ending in the bewiteling bower,
where oft at twilight the gentle zephyr, as it comes,
playfully in its frolic over the water, laden with cool-

DOTTING BY       TIE WAYSIDE.           243
ness and balm, from   mountain, shrub, or flower, fans
the brow of beauty, or listens to the tale of love: these,
one by one, as they are passed by the admiring, enrap-
tured stranger, present a scene, for variety, picturesque-
ness, and hallowing meditations, of surpassing loveli.
ness.
To be appreciated, however, its scenery must be en-
joyed, in the full blooming and gushing spring-time,
when the icy grasp of winter is relaxed, and Nature
has robed herself in her most beautiful garments of
greensward and of flower. It is then that the heart,
keenly alive to the charms of creation, will feel the
inspiration of nature, as on all sides it beholds the to-
kens of Infinite Love, the foot-print of the All-wise,
"Who hath so done His marvellous works, that through
them He speaketh."
Second only to this, art thou, modest, beautiful little
river of my childhood ! Would that I could greet thee
again, with a cheerful song of loves!
I will not say to thee farewell!
My faint heart could not bear it well;
Its wonted use the tongue withholds,
The eye thy beauties still beholds,
And fondly yearning o'er the past,
I hope to greet thee at the last !
When life's poor thread is waxing weak,
Thy glowing beauties let me seek,
And still, as in the days gone by,
On thy bosom let me lie;
And then, life's journey being o'er,
Let me find the heavenly shore !
Poetizing, eh ? what has this to do with duck-shoot-
ing? Forgive me, ye sympathetic ones ! These shadows

.
,t.
4.
x_,
5^
r
1 f{i  
{                      1
{                   _     J
' }r
1                         k
tifY
i
i
1
f
i
3
r
R
"                                                                it
i
i
i
f
4.
t
i
i
t.
i
1
,                            s


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  245

o'er the heart, will arise. The cloud will pass away,
and the sunshine come again. Well, duck-shooting!
There were four of us, who all were good shots "on the
wing." Our fathers and grandfathers used to crawl
about in ambush along the river's bank, endeavoring to
steal upon the ducks of their day. But, in course of
time, in a progressive age, ducks, like men, grew in
wisdom, and were not to be caught in that way. And
we younger ones imitated them; and what our fore-
fathers never dreamed of, any more than they did of
the steam-horse or telegraphic wires, we brought to
perfection.
About four o'clock, on a sharp, wintry morning, Sam,
the colored boy, who enjoyed the employment fully as
much as any of us, would "hamp" the old mule, Jake,
and hitch him to the cart, (sleigh, if there happened
to be snow enough ;) and, fully provided with ham,
bread, coffee, sugar, a frying-pan, and a coffee-boiler
we jumped in, with guns, ammunition, etc., not forget-
ting the tinder-box,-for mankind had not then grown
wise enough to make lucifer matches,-(a bad name, by
the by,) and a supply of provender for old Jake, away
we drove for the river.
We always made for the neighborhood of a fine
spring, on a creek ; a little way in the woods, we stop-
ped our mule and cart, and, leaving them in the care of
Sam, by daylight we had our posts, on some convenient
point or bar, past which the ducks must fly, to enter the
creek, in pursuit of their morning meal. Alas! I
think of it now with sadness ; for, it seems cruel to
have thus circumvented the innocent creatures, in their
lawful and necessary pursuits. Still it was no worse

244 THE BLEMMEItTONS; OR,

=PIP

f

than the mean, skulking plan of our forefathers ; and
this is some consolation. Moreover, there is little doubt
that ducks were made to be eaten, and are not to be
caught alive ; if they were, eating them alive or raw
would not have been exceedingly pleasant. So we
salve our consciences, on the score of many palpable
offences,; and why not on that of duck-shooting? 0,
ye simpering philosophers, you may eat as many things
alive and raw as ye list; bt, give us ducks well baked
and roasted, if you please, with the feathers off.
Presently, bang-bang! You would hear the sharp
report of a gun or two; and down would tumble into
the water as many ducks,-for we rarely missed. Old
Towser would swim in and bring them out. 0, how
he enjoyed it! It was to him and Sam, who would
often be pressing through the, bushes, "the feast of
reason and the flow of soul."
By the time we could re-load our pieces, the process
would be repeated.   And now   the breakfast hour
arrives. By this time, Sam has a fine fire sparkling
and crackling in the morning frost; we retire to it,
thaw our frozen fingers, (unthaw, as Sam always would
say,)lay our ducks away in the cart, fry our 'ham, make
our coffee, and take breakfast.
Breakfast over, then for the ducks again. But, by
this time, taking advantage of our absence, the creek
above us is pretty full, and very few are flying in.
This -renders it necessary to change the process. Ac-
cordingly, Sam is started up the creek; and presently
you hear him screaming at the top of his voice, and
threshing the bushes as lustily as if he had found a
den of grizzly bears, and were endeavoring to frighten

1,
a'' 33
55          i
rt
{{          i
f
aJ}
r.
r                         4
4i-
F
f
c  V
n'
ra,
i ;
t;
- Y
t
x'r
S


246        THEi BLEMMERToNS; OR,
them off. And why not frighten bears by such a pro-
cess? Periander, of Corinth, one of the Seven Sages of
Greece, according to ancient story, "scowled back the
advance of a leopard !" and, for aught that we know,
screamed at him. A similar story is told of the whole
Seven. And had our Sam met a gang of bears, at this
time, we think they would have retreated right lustily.
The ducks did. Up they bounced, and away they flew,
as fast as wings could carry them; but, not too fast for
our shot ; bang--bang-bang-as they passed us, and
down they tumbled !   When their fright was over,
they began to fly in again ; and then the process is
repeated, until dinner-time. Then we pause. Sam
goes out in a canoe ; and, with a pair of oyster-rakes,
soon secures a few bushels of fine oysters. These are
roasted on the fire; and we make a sumptuous dinner.
So the day is passed. Towards night, we have a large
supply of mallards, red-heads, canvas-backs, and as
many oysters as we desired, stowed away in the cart:
and then for home.   This is duck-shooting in the
medieval periods of our life. How it is now, we wot
not. In an age of steam, there have been, perhaps,
many remarkable improvements. Man is a wonderful
being, always making improvements and discoveries.
And we understand, that our plan has been improved
upon, like many other things; ducks are baited and
caught in a net.
But what of the wild-goose chase ? Ask your par-
don ! James Fastidious had been on one for a year
past ; for, he had been just that long chasing downto
Dr. Rtiproarer's Sunday-School. You remember, that
the mother of the aforesaid James persisted in taking

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.             247
him from the Sunday-School of the Church, because,
forsooth, Mr. Lovegood had crossed her notions of
clerical propriety.
Now James had never been pleased with this ar-
rangement; (who would be?) and, having grown a
year older, and a year nearer his own mastership, pos-
sessed, too, perhaps, of a sprinkle more of the spirit of
" Young America," he had determined to bring about
a change, and take himself back to his old quarters.
It must be named, also, as we pass along, that through
the interference of several malcontents, some twenty
other boys had been taken from the Sunday-School of
the Church, and sent to Dr. Riproarer's.
Now, about a year after the occurrence of these
events, a remarkable thing occurred one Sunday morn-
ing, which filled Dr. Riproarer, and all the good mem-
bers of his Sunday-School, with dismay.
A fashion had grown up among the boys about town,
-boys are progressive, you know, and change their
modes of enjoyment and amusement very often, one
week we have marbles, then ball, then bandy, then
cricket, and kites, etc.-of forming mimc military
companies. Every Saturday, they assembled in the
suburbs of the city, and passed through the evolutions
and exercises of a military drill. And it must be said,
to their credit, however we may disapprove of the
principle or practice, that they performed their parts, m
a highly creditable and soldier-like manner.
It happened, that James Fastidious was the captain
of one of these juvenile military companies, which was
composed, in part, of the twenty boys, who, against
their wishes, had been sent to (as they persisted in call-

f..
i
n
. s
i
fi
.l

i
I
{y
F
i
f"
;
- {

R1 ,
1 1
tl
'  4t
F+7
4

I
I .
I;


248        THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,
ing him) Dr. Rip's school. On the Sunday morning
alluded to above, to Dr. Rip's consternation, as he drew
near his meeting-house, what should he behold, but
James Fastidious, and his twenty little soldiers, all mar-,
shalled in order, on the pavement before the door.
"What can it mean,!" ejaculated Dr. Rip.  "Are
these boys crazy ?"  "Right about ! face !-single file !
forward ! march !" says Captain Fastidious; and away
they go, in the direction of St.  's Church. And
poor Dr. Rip trots after them, in painful suspense, and
breathless anxiety. "Boys! boys !" exclaimed he,
"what is the matter ? This is the Lord's-Day. You
can't march to-day. You'll bring disgrace on my Sun-
day-School."  "Halt !" says Captain Fastidious.
"With all due respect for you, Dr. Riproarer, we
must say to you, that we are "-soldiers of Christ,' and
are only marching to our headquarters, our spiritual
mother's home; and we know not that it is any more
sinful to go there in a body, than singly; we are only
walking. Baptized into the folds of the Church, we
think we have a right to her teaching, training, and the
blessed privileges of our baptism. It is in the Lord's
service that we are engaged, therefore you will please
excuse us.  Forward! march !"   And so they did
march directly to St. .- 's Sunday-School.
"Well, well," quoth Dr. Riproarer, " what's the
world coining to ? Either to an end, or to the Millen-
nium."
Mrs. Fastidious, as might have been anticipated, was
highly incensed, and censured Mr. Lovegood for the
whole transaction. But, as in numerous other cases, lie
was unjustly censured or accused. His first intelligence

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

249

of the proceeding, was when the boys presented them-
selves at the door of the Sunday-School, for admission.
And then he informed them, that their parents .must be
consulted. On Mrs. Nochurch it had the effect to pro-
duce a fainting-fit. Mrs. Blemmerton thought, that
those children had been badly "raised," and could
never come to any good end. Mr. Blemmerton thought
it high time to be looking after boys; there was too
much of "Young America" in it for him. Mrs. Pres-
byterian thought it a disgrace, and exceedingly unchar-
itable, and illiberal, and bigoted. Aunt Sally Milk-
and-water declared, that children did not behave, now-
a-days, as they did when she was young.
Notwithstanding all the hard speeches and remon-
strances which so remarkable a transaction produced,
d -th fthes ndmo-
the boys maintained their ground thefathers andrmo-
thers acquiesced, not very graciously to be sure; an
these unseemly scape-goats, as so many considered them,
grew up under Mr. Lovegood's pastorate; and, at the
present day, many of them are adorning the Christian
life and character : one is in the Church's ministry, a
faithful and efficient man; and the rest, grown to man's
estate, are filling honorable positions in the world, and.
performing a noble part, in their several spheres, as lay-
men in the Church.

t i4
IIk

,
,t
,
-
t
]i
-Y
+l
{
_4+
l
{ '
fit.
t
Ji
rv
+
#s.
0                                                                                                                                                                                        g
I                                     e
t'
C'
sS

I*


250        THE ]IIEMMERTONS    ; ORS
CHAPTER XXI.
KITE-FLYING. A FLASH-SCHOOL.
KITES! I never knew how to make a kite, though I
have flown them often. Kites are of various kinds.
Some have wings; and some have none. Some have
tails, but are wingless. Some have neither tails nor
wings; and on these last there "hangs a tale."  There
is a kite of the bird tribe: this is a kite of prey. There
is a kite made of paper; this is of the flying tribe, but
has no wings, while it boasts of a long tail. And there
ishe kite written on paper ; these are men's kites, and
are of the utilitarian tribe.
To give you an idea of this last genus of the kite
tribe, take the following as an illustration. A. is press-
ed for the wherewithal to pay his note in bank, and
draws through his bank, at sight, on B., in a neighbor-
ing city, and sends him, per mail, a check back on the
bank that negotiated his draft on B. B. pays A.'s draft
with this check when it is presented, which in due time
is returned to A.'s bank, by which time A. has the
money there to meet it. This system of operating gives
A. some six or eight more days in which to provide the
money.
This is a kite of the banking genus; and there is a
good deal of utility in it. Banks are useful things. At
least A. thinks so. Some call this style of kiting sky-
rocketino'; but we believe that we have given it the best

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.             251
It is a high-flying affair. And often a
name-kiting'.  t1  ihfyn xa  ep u This   abe
good "wind" is required to keep it up.  is may e
taken as one illustration of "raising the wind.
Now there are many kites of this kind flown. The
advertising columns of newspapers are, for the most
art, filled with just such kites; high-flying produc-
tion  that cannot float without wind. Gas, indeedis
good for some of them. Indeed, in an " age of steam,
kites and gas seen to be necessary.
The world is full of kite-flyers. Men and women are
only children on a larger scale; and, winle boys f
kite  for amuse eint, they  do  profits In  the  fo -
mer case, for  the  most part  is  an late n The tm eo
not always, or even often, in the latter. The manor
oman who sets ou in lif-e in pursuit of a phantom,
and who sacrifices the principles o right,ad dty,
and truth, to the exacting service of theodofwthis
world, is unquestionaby a    -
read of what "Poor iRichard" said about paying dduly
much for the whistle," without havin or md   of
impressed with its universal app
kite-flying."
The Blemmertons had been, all their lives, engaged
in this (to them) agreeable employmet Ever.
Ben ~ocun. Spienium1ad strung his kite with a very
Ben Slocu i Sapientanding out in a stiff breeze, hold-
ing only the peg at the end Of the  estring,ath nwon-
der if, occasionally, he was   o   the earth, and
d       the fitful currents of wind, with
ac   ulaed foe, sruck the little flying creature that
acecumul 1ated force , struectedis iy  "al n-
floated high above him, and write1 t  iy ali  e
fiance at him.

to
Rill
15+
yy#(,i R
J r
{
iic
{na
s
y
1
i
4  -

d

1,9t:


f1

252

THE BLEMMERToNs; OR,

In Mr. Lovegood's day, not far from the city of
there lived a portrait painter, whose name was Jeremy
i(iteflyer; an excellent name, and apropos at that day;
for, the flying of kites was just then coming into vogue .
And Jeremy, having spent a large amount of money in
paints and oils to no profit, not to speak of labor, giving
up in despair, determined to try another mode of kite-
flying. Indeed, it was said by some of the spiteful
ones,-of whom the world is full, shame on them, that
the aforesaid Jeremy had missed his occupation, or,
rather, like Othello, had lost it ; for his paintings did
not take. They were always overwrought or under-,
wrought; they flew too high, or too low. Now, who
does not know, that a painting cannot fly, not having
wings? 'But when a lady, possessed, in her own esti-
nation, or otherwise, of a beautiful aquiline nose, sat
under Jeremy's pencil, and came out all over a regular
"pug," who could blame her for "flying into a tem-
per," and declaring that he was better fitted for flying
kites than painting likenesses.
Poor Jeremy! he was in an "evil case," and found
it impossible to please every body. "Madam, it is an
exact and charming likeness. Just look at the charm-
ing expression of countenance. See that lip, Madam,
and eye ; how they disclose the glowing thoughts of
the mind and heart !"  "La! Sir,-take the ugly daub
away: I can't endure it. Look at that pug nose, Sir,
if you please, and say, was I ever as ugly as that ?
Away with it, Sir! Charming eye, indeed! a half-
open, squinting, blearing thing; and lips, as though
they had been burnt by a hot coal of fire, and were
drawn asunder by the process."

4

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

253

Perhaps the ladies were at fault, and only desired
Jeremy to "flatter them," as a very charming little
feminine daguerreotypist once said to your ugly scribe:
"How do you like it, Sir ?" " O, Madam, it is much
too good looking! The thing is over-done."  "0, Sir,
I beg your pardon; we are true to nature. We never
flatter." And this, with all the grace of a Venus. She
was a regular kite-flyer: so you would say, if you should
ever see the likeness and the original. But, for aught
that we know, this was a thing that Jeremy was too
conscientious to do. His glorious Art was at stake;
and that he could never think of sacrificing to "the
whimsies of the fair sex," as he used to say. At all
events, Jeremy came to the conclusion, that the world
would never appreciate his talents in that line. And
he was not alone ; for did not an ungrateful world serve
the great Hlaydon in the same way, who all his life de-
voted his almost inspired genius to grand historical
paintings, without being appreciated? Let this com-
fort the memory of poor Jeremy Kiteflyer.
But Jeremy was a man of resources ; and not to be
outdone by a few " captious women," as he called them.
He would yet make his mark on the world; hand his
name down to posterity; and what was denied him in
life, he would, like that great model, Haydon, receive
in death.
- AccQrdingly, in a mammoth-sheet at that day, you
might have perused the following announcement, done
up in a multitude of flourishes and exclamation
marks:

4
IF
4
_ii


254        THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,
MAMMOTH SEMINARY FOR YoUNG LADIES!!!!
KITE-FLYING HOUSE!!!
Jeremy Kiteflyer, A.M., Principal, Professor of Draw
ing, Painting, etc., etc.
Know all MEN and LADIES, by these presents, hav-
ing DAUGHTERs to be educated, throughout "the wide
world," that the great undertaking has at last been
entered upon ! Professor Jeremy Kiteflyer, A. M.,
has the pleasure of announcing that, at a vast ex-
pense, he has fitted up, and opened a Seminary for
Young Ladies, of the highest possible order, at
that world-wide celebrated place, Kiteflying Vil-
lage!!
Every thing will be taught at this school that is
of service to mankind in general, or womankind
in particular: French, German, Spanish, Italian,
Hebrew, Sanscrit, Arabic, Chaldaic, African, Hot-
tentot, Chinese, Timbooctan, Choctaw, Chickasaw,
Cherokee, Norwegian, Latin, Greek, Irish, Scotch,
etc., etc.! Also, all styles of Painting, Drawing,
Dancing, Singing, and Instrumental Music, Organ,
Piano, Guitar, Harp, Cymbal, Flute, Fife, Fiddle,
Tamborine, Banjo, Hand-Organ, Jew's-harp,Whist-
ling, etc., etc. And also all the sciences, from the
composition of the most delicate colorings in a
butterfly's wing, to the most abstruse calculations
in logarithms!
Parents may rely upon it, that now is tle time
for them to give their daughters an accomplished
education, never before beard of in this country or
any other.

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

255

The Faculty will be composed of the best Pro-
fessors the whole globe can produce. No pains
will be spared, to accomplish much more than we
proni se.
A happy feature in this school, and one well
calculated to make it popular, is, that the Princi-
pal, having in view the well-being of his pupils,
has rented pews in all the principal churches in the
village ; and they will enjoy the privilege of hear-
ing some of the most eloquent and popular preach-
ers of the day. And what is better, they can attend
what "Church" they please.   Being an Episco-
palian himself, he makes a loud appeal to all other
Episcopalians, to aid him in this laudable design
of conducting a thorough Church School.
Moreover, the Principal has been at the extra-
ordinary expense, (a thing never before heard of
in any school,) of securing an ample supply of
all the celebrated mineral spring waters in this
country, for the use of his pupils, etc., etc.
Poor innocent girls! Ye were indeed liberally pro-
vided for, in the days of Mr. Jeremy Kiteflyer. We
have no such schools now: more's the pity. This is a
meager, money-making age ; its spirit is too dwarfish,
to launch out on such a magnificent scale. Poor inno-
cent girls ! did ye not need mineral water, to brace the
nerves, when ye got into Hottentot ? So the world
went, in Jeremy's day!
Mrs. Inquisitive,-bless her pestiferous soul, who had
known Jeremy all the days of his life,-opined, that he
never had the honor of receiving a collegiate degree;

I

1I
i

,

Y


256

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR

and she desired very much to know, how he got that
significant handle A. M. fastened on, or "tacked on,"
as she said, to his name.
"ft's just like them," quoth Jeremy; "they gave me
no peace when I was painting portraits; and I sup-
pose they never will. Bless the pestiferous woman !
Madam, is not PAINTING one of the Arts; aye, one of
the fine Arts? And am not I a painter? (as the great
Correggio or Michael Angelo once exclaimed, 'I also
am a painter !') And does not that, Madam, constitute
me a MASTER OF ARTS ?"
Whew! Jeremy! what a mighty kite you are flying!
See how it sails up in the ether. Admire its long,
comet-like tail. See how boldly and grandly it floats
above. That tail is dangerous. What would become
of this terrestrial globe should it'strike it?
flying high, flying low,
Sailing through the air!
Wind and storm make it go ;
Blow on, ye breezes, blow ;
Jerry's plan is fair ;
Jerry's plan is rare ;
Sailing through the air !
Jerry's school was a liberal Church School; very
liberal indeed ! It was magnanimous !
And when his card duly made its appearance in the
papers, the thoughtful Mrs. Blemmerton declared,
(Jeremy was a distant relative of hers, and whatever
other acts of benevolence the lady performed, she had
the good trait of always being on the look-out for her
poor relatives; for she said, she did not want them to
come upon her purse; she had otherwise as many

DOTTIN GS BY T HE W AYsIDE.

257

charities as she could attend to,) having before her eyes
the future prospects of Agnes Wallace, "That if Mr.
Lovegood was not just now ready to marry, the next
best thing he could do with dear little Agnes, would be
to send her forthwith to Jeremy Kiteflyer's school, until
siich time as he did marry, when he could bring her
home, and send her to Madame Fanciful to finish off."
One of those customary Mulligatawny meetings dis-
cussed the question. Mrs. Fastidious thought it just the
thing. Mrs. Fussy, Mrs. Nochurch, "and the rest," as
Mrs. Blemmerton termed them, agreed to the very
letter. Aunt Sally wished, from the bottom of her
heart, there had been such a school in her younger
days. Had there been, she was sure she would never
have married Mr. Milk-and-water. As it was, she came
very near marrying General Crookedlegs,-she was a
great belle in her younger days,-only, and it was a
great pity, she was not enough "eicated ."
Mr. Lovegood was duly waited upon, and his atten-
tion called to the aforesaid grandiloquent advertisement.
The committee of ladies thought it quite the thing. "It
was to be a good, liberal, Christian school; every thing
in general in religion was to be taught, nothing in par-
ticular."  And, best of all, Mr. and Mrs. Kiteflyer
were both Episcopalians; and they doubted not Mr.
Lovegood would prefer an Episcopal school for Agnes.
Therefore they had resolved, that it was their duty to
confer upon him the favor of calling his attention to
Mr. Kiteflyer's card.
Mr. Lovegood glanced his eyes over the exclamation
marks, and quietly handed it back to the presenter,
Mrs. Fastidious, with the remark, " That's no school for

, .
, jji1
;i 1
? f
'  }' t
i   c1
t       s
f ',f
f.  a'
t  ; '
t,
i
t
'   ,
+"
; '
;
'
t
',
t
E
t'     j
t
ti
,  r
t
,-
.
,  ,
;;    f
3
';'
,}, F
a
!    r
t
i    y
t'
;
i
t
'
!  ,
-j  ti     ,
.    r
i
1
i,   ,
t
,
5 .
;
,r  ,
;;
.i
F
jib
3
S   !
tt
pF '
A
f

f
P
tt
t
a
y
y;
ii
i
,A
a

"
i
i"
s
r
e
r
f


258        THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,
me, Ladies. I could never be induced to recognize that
as a Church School. I see not the first element of the
Church in it. I call the whole thing, from beginning
to end, a cool humbug."
Mr. Lovegood was plain-spoken, that must be granted.
Dear me! Mrs. Fastidious thought it so strange !
All the ladies were similarly afflicted with amazement.
They took great interest in poor little Ages. Here
was a school of the first class. It was an age of im-
prbvement ; and here was an improved school, com-
bining all the wisdom of past ages, and the improve-
ments of the present. How they wished they had
daughters young enough to send ! But, they supposed
they must yield. They hoped, however, that Mr. Love-
good would not send the poor little thing to an " old
fogy" school. It would be such an immense pity.
Mr. Lovegood, with all his heart, wished that some
people had brains sufficient, at least, to attend to their
own business, and leave him in the enjoyment of the
same delightful privilege.
But, one would have supposed that, after his long ex-
perience, he would ere this have learned the salutary
and becoming lesson, that he was not a free man, that
his business was not his own. What right had he to do
any thing, without the consent and approbation of all
his flock? Was he not hired by them? Did they not
support him? Did not Mr. Blemmerton PaY one hun-
dred dollars, to get a pew among "the upper tens ?"
And did not Mrs. Fastidious and Mrs. Noclrch each
pay fifty dollars, to get one only a notch lower? Was
it not with their money, that he was going to pay for
the schooling of Agnes ? And had they not the right

;
a
e
-
:
:
;
r
'f
t
r
X
F
J'
A
S
i)
{
C
S
3
P
1
i
0

to say where she should be sent? How preposterous
was it, then, that these ladies should be deprived of the
just and equitable privilege of directing the future of
young Agnes's life! How preposterous, for Mr. Love-
good to think of having every thing his own way !
It all came of his being a pesty-testy, high and dry,
self-willed old bachelor. You might as well undertake to
control a wild mustang. The thing is impossible. You
have first to noose him, then give him the rope, and let
him play around till he is fairly broken down; then
you have gently to approach him, holding out the
tempting morsel of grass,-corn will not answer, for he
does not know what it is; then, when he gets a taste of it,
you are to coax him; then, if you can get near enough,
you are to stroke him, and pat him easily and tenderly
on the shoulder,-take care ! stand off! he kicks, as we
may suppose old Sisyphus did when his stone rolled
down the hill in spite of him !-and then, if you can,
you are to throw a blanket on him; and then mount-
him if you can ; and then,-look out for your neck. It
all comes of being an old bachelor.
As Aunt Sally would say, in one of her happiest so-
liloquies : " It takes all sorts of people to make a world ;
and a great many sorts to make an assortment !"
And Mr. Lovegood was doubtless one of these. The
ladies could neither tame, nor manage, nor guide him.
What he did, will be seen in due time. Meantime, we
invite your attention to another scene, which will be
charmingly agreeable, provided-it be a hot day ; if oth-
erwise, you will enjoy it in prospect.
But, first, we will look in upon a CHURCH ScrooL;
not a pretension.

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  259

i
 e
l-
,
f t
li
.
i


,M
fr
F
k
F
y
4
Y
t

CHAPTER XXII.
A CHURCH-SCHOOL. HAPPY GIRLS. PLEASANT SCENES.
IT is summer ; charming beautiful summer ! The
heart leaps up, and delights to be alone, to revel in its
musings, to meditate with Isaac at eventide ; or, to note
the parting rays of the setting sun, painting, as it were,
the robes of Jehovah, in the evening cloud, or writing'
His glory across the sky.
You miust go into the country, if you would see the
beauties of summer : the birds, twittering in the forest;
the cattle, " winding o'er the lea ;" the insects, chirp-
ing in the grass ; the waving fields of corn; the flow-
ers leaping into life; all Nature, pouring forth her
tribute to man and beast, and glorifying Nature's God.
Ah! these are the sights that make man's heart laugh,
and sing, and give thanks.
Go with us then, reader, if you delight in the inno-
cent, the enchanting, the beautiful, into the free open
country.
In a beautiful rolling district, far removed from the
whirl and bustle of a great city and the thunder even of
the steam-horse, there stood upon a commanding emi-
nence, at the period of which we write, in its solemn
quietude, embowered amid its spreading shade-trees, a
nurturing home for the daughters of the Church; a
school of the truest, highest type of what a " Church-
school" ought to be.

It was a charming spot; and as sanctified as beau-
tiful. Wealth, industry, and refined taste had united
to render the surrounding country one of the most
flourishing and attractive anywhere to be seen!*
The grounds attached to the seminary buildings were
amjle, well laid off, and adorned with choice shrubbery ;
consequently, they were admirably calculated for two
important elements in the proper conduct of such an in-
stitution: exercise, and mental and spiritual improve-
ment.
We all know something of the influence of the beau-
tiful in nature, in forming the taste of the young, and
ennobling the mind. The little flowers blooming at
our feet, and regaling the air we breathe, are so many
full-voiced messengers from heaven, teaching us les-
sons of gentleness, purity, and love.
The young imbibe these lessons with ease ; it is in
harmony with their nature, which loves to look upon
the beautiful; and, if aptly trained, the lessons so im-
bibed will be developed in that glowing piety, which,
in every bursting bud and opening flower, seeth the
hand divine which lavisheth beauty on all things here
below.
The discipline and management of this school, were
of the highest order. HoME and SCHooL Were so hap-
pily blended, that the joyous, sanctified HOME FEELING
was fully preserved, while the mind of the pupil was
imbued with that mental and religious training, which
fitted her for time and eternity.
e The writer has, in this small sketch, drawn a few thoughts from
an article of his in " The Banner of the Cross," Feb. 15, 1851.

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

260

261

TIE BBEMMERTONS; OR)


262    . THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

Mrs. Densmore, the Principal of the Institution, had
had great experience in training and developing the
youthful mind and heart. Possessing, as she did, to a very
high degree, those qualifications which adorn the head-
hip of such a work, she was eminently worthy of the con-
fidence and patronage of the Church. And if to her
rare gifts as a teacher and conductor of such a school,
we add those of the thorough, faithful, devoted Church-
woman, of richly cultivated mind, of grace, piety, and
sterling Christian worth, manifested, not in the way of
a sickly, morbid sentimentality, which promises with-
out doing, but, in the quiet, sober, steady, yet deep,
practical way of the Gospel, fully apprehended and.
meekly received, as the Church hath gathered the
same out of Holy Writ, and embodied it in her teach-
ings in the Prayer-Book, we certainly have all that can
reasonably be desired, in one who is to train the daugh-
ters of the Church for their sphere on earth, and for that
higher and holier sphere, in which they are to move
when earth and earthly things shall be no more. Here,
the influence of the Church was constantly brought to
bear on the pupils. They were trained indeed for the
Church; Church teaching formed a prominent part of
their daily instruction. No girl left Mrs. Densmore,
without understanding, appreciating, and loving her
spiritual mother.
A worthy and efficient chaplain, a beautiful Gothic
chapel, lifting toward heaven its humble tower ; with
its rich, chaste, emblematic chancel window, as perfect
a gem in architecture as that period produces; the mel-
low-toned organ, the daily service of prayer and praise:
these all united in training the young hearts commit-

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.                   263
ted to Mrs. Densmore, for the glories of the Church tri-
umphant.
It was a home, in which heart and mind were duly
cultivated, by a course of education embracing the
godly, the solid, and the refined. Indeed, there was a
directness, practicalness, and reality about every thing
at this school, that captivated, not only the pupils, but
the friends of sound Church education everywhere.
And this, because it was ruled by love. There were no
noisy pretensions; there was no kite-flying ; nothing
was done by halves; it was what it professed to be, a
real " Church School."
On1 a pleasant evening in June, 18-, had you, about
twilight, passed this quiet nursing-school of the young,
you would have heard soft enchanting music from hap-
py voices, accompanying the piano at which Mother
. Densnore, as the girls all called her, presided, floating
on the still air. These are the words of the happy glee-
song that you would have heard:
o we are happy, we are bright,
And now we sing; our hearts are light,
Toil is o'er, the task is done ;
Of care and sorrow we have none.
Come one, come all, and join our glee,
We'll merry all the evening be,
And sing, and laugh, and romp, and play,
And books forget till break of day.
The bell will ring, and up we'll spring,
And with the lark at dawn we'll sing ;
And then to books we'll speed straightway,
And study well through all the day.
Then merrily we'll sing to-night,
Because our hearts are very light.

r


264     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR'

Our Mother fond will join our song,
For she has watched us all day long ;
And now all care we'll cast aside,
And spend a happy eventide.
And when in prayer we bend us low,
Up to heaven our plea shall go,
That our dear Mother may be blest,
With cheerful days and nights of rest.
And when our schooling days are ended,
All our odds and ills are mended,
When the parting word is given,
Still we'll pray to meet in Heaven.
Every evening, after tea, the girls assembled in the
long recitation-room, and sang, while Mrs. Densmore
played, this cheerful little song, before they entered
upon the evening's recreation and amusement. Mrs.
Densmore was always touched to tears, when she heard
that little song bursting out from the happy, innocent
hearts of her pupils.  0, it was a happy scene!
Each pupil, as she passed out into the promenade
ground, received a kiss and a blessing from " Mother,"
and then the merry laugh and shout told of joy and.
happiness in all hearts.
There you behold a pair of loving girls, arm in arm,
or clasping each other around the waist, lightly trip-
ping along the gravel-walk. Some are nursing the
flowers, or admiring their branches, or making a bou-
quet for " Mother ;" others are making a wreath of
roses and jasmine, for they say their dear " Mother"
shall be crowned a Queen that night ; others are fes-
tooning the portico, and trimming the honeysuckle, that
embowered it, with lights; some are arranging a plat-
form, and a large armchair for the Throne. They are

1
,
r
a
}
1
li
9

DOTTING BY       THE WAYSIDE.            265
bent on a frolic. Others are in the great swing, bound-
ing up and down, as light of heart as innocence itself;
one is at the piano, trilling soft notes ; two little girls,
in a room above, have stolen to the window, and are
now looking sadly out upon the happy scene. Their
little hearts are almost breaking. A slip of paper falls;
a little girl, glad to do her companions a kindness, picks
it up, and runs in to "Mother" with it.
" If our dear, dear Mother will forgive us this time,
we will not misbehave again. We know we have been
naughty. But, dear Mother, please forgive us."
That is enough. Mother cannot withstand that touch-
ing pleas   And she runs up stairs, embraces the little
penitents; for a moment, they mingle their tears to-
gether, Mother and daughters : all is forgiven, and the
little recreants run down stairs,. almost tumbling one
over the other.
The Throne is ready; the wreath is prepared; the
lights are lit. While the Queen Mother is arrayed, and
led out to the Throne, forty happy voices break out into
this merry little song:
Our Mother shall be Queen to-night,
A very dear Mother is she,
We'll crown her with flowers all as bright
As ever bright can be.
We'll wreathe her in roses woven well,
And she shall look so fair,
.A Faery Queen, we'll own her spell,
With jewels we'll deck her hair.
And then on a throne she shall sit,
And we to her will sing.
Setebower! it's brightly lit.
And now our Mother we bring:
12


266     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

i
4  f
'
f
;
;1
f
,
..
I
{'; I
;
,;
;_r
,;
.,
'    i
,,
:
!
1
I
i1

Ha, ha, ha ! it is all done,
Our Mother dear is a Queen alone.
A Faery Queen is she,
As fair as Queen can be.
Sing we merrily i
Merrily!
Merrily!
Happy Mother ! Happy girls! Ye are a world unto
yourselves!
On the evening in June, 18-, on which we sup-
posed the reader to be passing this nursing-home, all
the while these little songs were singing, and this inno-
cent hilarity proceeding, a gentleman with a girl of
about fifteen had remained, unobserved, in his car-
riage, at the outer-gate, listening to the song of the
light-hearted girls.
A silent tear trickled down the cheek of the girl.
Her heart throbbed with inexpressible emotions. Never
before, had she heard such happy voices. Never be-
fore, had such thrilling music fallen upon her heart,
except when her dear departed mother sang some
psalm or hymn, which told of redeeming love, and a
brighter world on high, from the blessed old Prayer-
Book, which she bore in her. hand, and which now,
with her old Bible, she pressed to her heart, and kissed
in rapturous joy, as the gifts which she received with
her mother's dying blessing.
"TMoTHER! DEAR MOTHER !" 0 how these words
turned "her heart's blood" into tears ! 0 blessed Mo-
ther's love, still linger about us on our way. Still cheer
us to the tomb.
" And will she be a MOTHER to me?  0, will she be

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.            267
a MOTHER to me ?" she involuntarily exclaimed, loud
enough to be heard by the gentleman at her side, who
had hitherto been absorbed in his own meditations, as
he witnessed the beautiful and touching scene before
him. "Yes, she will," said he, "my dear Agnes ;" for
it was Mr. Lovegood. and Agnes Wallace. And tears
welled up from his heart, and chased each other down
his manly cheek. "Yes, she will. I know she will.
This, my daughter,-for so now I shall ever call you,-
is to be your future home, at least for four years. It
will be a happy home for you. God bless you, my
daughter. 0 could .your poor, dear mother, now in
Paradise, have witnessed this scene, and heard those
happy voices !"
Here, for the present, we must leave Agnes.
If hitherto she had known sorrow, and gxief had left
its furrovs on her young brow, let us trust that there is
a brighter future in store for her; that flowers, " bright
flowers," may yet be strewn along the pathway of the
poor orphan.

a' t
i'
I
t
Ii
i
i
9
i1
1
i
!tt
t s


f

268

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

CHAPTER XXIII.
GOSSIPING. PICTURES FROM LIFE. HOW TO GET MONEY
FOR CHURCH PURPOSES, FROM THE BLEMMERTONS.
TIME was, when scarcely a day rolled away, without
bringing some startling event to pass, in the great city
of     . But, strange to tell, nothing startling had oc
curred, in the usual routine of events amongst St.  's
congregation, since the time that the juvenile Captain
Fastidious had marched the boys to the Sunday-School.
If the reader will form one of our company, we will
stroll into ene of those magnificent saloons, for which
the city of -- was so justly celebrated.
The dog-days have come; it is almost too hot for gos-
siping ; yet, thanks to a plate of frozen cream and a
glass of ice-water, we can endure a sprinkle of it. Per-
haps, while enjoying our delectables from the frozen
regions, it may suffice to remind us that summer is yet
on hand.
It is now the hour of dusk; the pleasantest period
of a hot day in the city. While enjoying our cream
a-la-mode, tete-a-tete, a couple of ladies enter, sweep
gracefully up- the saloon, and take their seats at a table
opposite to ours. It is unmannerly, we know, to listen;
but if ladies will take seats near us, and will persist
in speaking loud enough to be heard, we know not that
we are bound to change our seats; and certainly we
deem it no point of our duty to become deaf!

l
j
S
11
} f
1
E
i
}
[ P
i
i
}
I
a
4
1
is
I
,
t
ii
{  g
!  r
ii
it
I

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.            269
There is a modern society called. "Know-Nothings;"
a very apt title. These ladies belonged to a numerous
society, whom, for want of a better title, we shall style
"Like-Nothings." The Like-Nathings are a peculiar
race, much given to fault-finding and intermeddling.
Nothing is right, unless they do it themselves. And
yet, alas ! they never bless the world by doing any
thing.
The secret of their success consists in undoing. But,
we must permit them to speak for themselves.
"Well, indeed, Mis. Nochurch," said Mrs. Fussy,
"Mr. Lovegood seems to me to be a strange man.
When lie was at my house the other day, lie scarcely
had any thing to, say ; so, I thought I would try and
draw him out, by praising his last sermon : there was,
for a wonder, you know, nothing in it about 'the
Church,' and the like. And what do you think he
said? Would you believe that he would not hear a
word of it, but just cut me short, by saying lie hoped I
would profit by it !"
"Did you ever ! It's so unlike Dr. Riproarer. I
should not wonder if it is that that prevents him from
getting the D. D. I do declare, I don't believe I can
ever think much of a clergyman who is not a D. D.
11 ia so-iuch pleasanter to say Doctor than Mr. so-and-
so, forever. I think all who are not D. D.'s must be
deficient in some respect. Now Dr. IRiproarer seems
always under so many obligations, when one speaks
well of his sermons, that it does one good to oblige him
ii that way."
"And what do you think," continued Mrs. Fussy,
"my Jane said to me the other day. Jane, you know,

4


s
iE
t
ti
i
i
l
r
i
j
}
Si
,j
_i
it
} y
A
F
{ T }
4
t) p t
{
! w
:q
i
{
s
t
i
ii
A  ,

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

is a [Roman] Catholic, and they all are bad enough,
but I don't believe Jane will lie !"
"0 dear, what ?" hurriedly and vehemently asked
the lady, dropping her plate of frozen ice, as if it had
been a hot iron.
" Well, day before yesterday, Jane says, she saw Mr.
Lovegood come round the corner, go down the alley
behind the house, and enter that low, brawling grog-
gery kept by Pat O'Ryman !" " 0 shame! You don't
say so !" exclaimed Mrs. Nochurch, threatening to fall
into a swoon, or spasm of horror and amazement.
" True ! and Jane says she watched until he came out,
and it was nearly an hour !" "Did you, in all .your
life, ever hear the like! What is the world coming to ?
A clergyman iira groggery! Only think of it! You
may depend there was something wrong going on!"
"I don't know; but Jane said, when he came out he
looked queer! His head hung down, and he looked as
though he feared some one would see him. He walked
hurriedly out of the alley, and went on up the street!"
"Now I do declare," said Mrs. Nochurch, "that re-
minds me of what my John told ine. My John was
coming home one night about midnight, a few evenings
ago,-he had been at the theatre,-and whom should
he meet right at that corner, but Mr. Lovegood! I told
John not to speak of it; but it's too late now! How
strange !"
The ladies exchange a knowing look, and heave each
a heavy sigh. But be not startled; be quiet, keep your
seat!
It was no trifling matter, that Mr. Lovegood had been
seen to enter a groggery, and also at or near the same

I

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

271

place, by another party, at the solemn hour of midnight.
It never entered the generous mind of either of them,
that he was doing any thing good. Charity might
perhaps have whispered thus much. But Charity has
nothing to do with a clergyman who enters a groggery;
nor could she, in the minds of our two ladies, find any
mantle to cover such a sin.
Iiad " Jane" been properly employed in her culinary
engagements, and Master John Nochurch sound asleep
in his bed, instead of visiting that gateway to eternal
death, the theatre, this wicked piece of gossip and bitter
scandalizing had never come to light. But so the idle
aid the wicked have eyes, ears, and hearts, for every
thing but what is good and praiseworthy.
After that knowing look had subsided into composure,
Mrs. Nochurch continued the conversation. "0 dear,
what will Dele Blemmerton think of that when she
hears it !
" Dele Blemmerton! La me, what has she to do
with it ?" "'A great deal ! I reckon they are engaged
to be married, or near it !" This last was spoken in an
under-tone, and intended as a qualifying clause. " It
can't be so!   It's impossible !" said Mrs. Fussy.
" Don't everybody know that Dole Blemmerton is
engaged to be married to Mr. Slopill !" " Well, I don't
speak positively, mind you ! But Mrs. Blemmerton
told me, the other day, that she thought things ' looked'
that way ! And I'm sure she meant something!"
"Mrs. Blemmerton! Well, I do declare! People
are so strange now-a-days ! Why Mrs. Blemmerton has
all along been opposed to Mr. Lovegood in the Church.
They never liked him ; never wanted him here ! o,

270

. ...._..... _ _a.. ..         _..__  .._.........._._.... -      -  _.,,.a_ ..._ .        ...a...e... ..                      _...


THE BLEMMERToNS; OR,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

it's too bad, after hearing her say all that I have
heard !"
" I had rather not speak of it, but I know Mr. Love-
good has been there a great deal of late, and Jenny
McMeddlesome told me, that Dle told her, that she
had given Mr. Lovegood a piece of poetry and a beau-
tiful rose-bud ! And I know, that she bought, at Roun-
delay's store, a few days ago, a splendid velvet sermon-
holder, which she intended as a present to Mr. Love-
good. And Pd like to know, if all this does not mean
something? I know Mr. Lovegood says lie goes there
to see Ben Slocum about confirmation, but that won't
do to tell every body."
"Do tell ! Really, between us, I'm losing all confi-
dence in Mrs. Blemmerton. She is actually deceitful;
I do declare she is !"
" Well you know, as old aunt Sally says, 'It takes
all sorts of people to make a world.' For my part, I'd
rather not say all I know. But if it is a match, Mrs.
Blenmmerton, you may depend, has made it up herself.
Dear me, she is so crafty, so cunning, so managing!
But hush ! I do believe she is coming! Yes, if here
ain't Dle, too !"
" Dear me, Mrs. Blemmerton, I'm so glad to see you!
and you, too, Dele !" and the ladies kiss all around.
"La! We were just talking about you, and good too !"
"I thought so," exclaimed Mrs. Blemmerton, " my
night earburnt so !" " And where, Mrs. llemmerton
have you kept yourself? I haven't seen you for a
week !"  "lBen Slocum's poor cousin Richard, you
know, has been very ill for a week, and this kept us
confined at home; and, poor fellow, after all that we

could do he died yesterday, and we are just returning
from his funeral! Poor fellow, he is gone !"
Dear!" exclaimed both the ladies, "We never
heard a word of it. Why did you not let us know?"
"Well, you know, it's a very busy time ; our expenses
just now are very heavy; and Mr. Blemmerton did not
think it worth while to have much of a funeral. He
said it would do poor Richard no good. But 0, such a
sermon we heard, by the Reverend Simon Cobblecant-
ing, who was a dear friend to Richard. 0, you ought
to have heard it, and the eloquent -prayer, and the
praises bestowed on Mr. Cobblecanting. It was
preached in the New Jerusalem Church. It's many a
day since I heard such a sermon F'
That reminds us of spouting. " Mr. Cobblecantig
was a decided spouterr !" This is a "spouting" age,
and the world is full of "spouting."  Lord so-and-so
made a great speech in Parliament the other day, on
the question of the length of Punch's ears. Hon. Mr.
Longsides contended, that Punch has no ears at all.
Lord so-and-so contends, that he is a decided ass. It's
a great question, and the papers ring out the labored
speeches. The clash of arms is heard across the broad
Atlantic ; and we are wonderfully edified.
Mr. Such-a-one died in England, three hundred
years ago. Mr. Such-a one was a very good man, no
one doubts or questions it. Out comes a spoutingn"
piece in the papers, calling upon all good Christians to
contribute freely to the erection of a-great monuments
or something else, to the memory of Mr. Such-a-one.
Mr. Such-a-one lives in the memory of the Church or
nation; he has a fane as far above stone or brass as

r

272

273


274     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

heaven is above earth. And if he could speak from
the dead, he would say, "You had better rouse the
people and teach them to devote their means to the
spreading abroad of the Gospel of life and salvation !"
Look at the heathen nillion;s in idolatry, crying aloud
for the bread of life! Look at home upon the broad
domain unclaimed by the Church; hear the voice that
cries, day by day, to heaven, "Thy Kingdom come!"
0 send us the Church, with her healing waters, her
words of love and bread of life !"  Hear the wail of the
suffering Missionary, alone in the wilderness, as he
stretches out his hands for help, and groans aloud in
his agony of soul.
But 0, they are not dead! While there's life, there's
hope! If they die we'll "spout;" they are glorious
Christians; they died in harness: we'll build them
monuments; we'll sing requiems o'er their grave.
It's all " spouting ;" spout, spout, spout ; speech,
speech, speech ! It amounts to nothing ! It is "empty,
destitute, and void," as Hooker would say, of any real
good to the world or the Church. We are full of
speechifying congratulations, sounding of big guns.
Weightier issues are cast into the shade.
Is it not time to take up practicals ? Is it not time
to begin to "spout" to some purpose ?
Let us draw one or' two little pictures.
Picture 1st. "If we waited for the Episcopal Church
to bring them (i. e., the blessings of the Church) to us,
several generations might grow up and die in heathen-
ish ignorance."*
* New-York Churchman, August 5,1854.

I

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             275
We take this paragraph from one of our Church pa-
pers. It was the remark made by a Churchman, with
regard to the tardiness of the Church in claiming the
wide field opened unto her in the great Southwest. It
is a sore rebukO. Where does it fall? Upon the chil-
dren of the Church ! And for them we' write. They
do not supply the means, to enable the Church to claim
her own, and do her Lord's work.
Picture 2d. The Church papers make an appeal, on
behalf of a College in Canada, and a Missionary work
there. The appeal is handsomely responded to; and
the next thing we hear is, that twelve thousand dollars,
or more, are liberally contributed to those objects.
This is all highly gratifying. As a daughter, the Church
in the United States owes much to her good old mother,
the Church of England; and it really does the heart
good, to see the daughter and her children so generously
disposed to recognize the filial duty of honoring her
parent, and returning into her bosom and that of her
children, (for we all are one family in Christ, and we
rejoice in it,) even a small portion of the fostering love
that for so many years she derived from her.
" Honor thy father and thy mother," is the first com-
mandment with promise. And it is just as true, with-
out doubt, of our spiritual mother as of our natural, for
there is no tie closer than that which exists between
the family of Christ, the communion of saints ! And
it is cheering, to see the generous-hearted children of
the Church, thus fulfilling the sacred duty of cementing
the bonds of union between mother and daughter, and
spreading abroad the Messiah's Kingdom.
But she who is a daughter has also grown to be a


DOTTING B THE WAYSIDE.     277

mother; and, with the spirit and genius of our common
country, her children have gone out, seeking their own
fortunes, have spread themselves abroad over this wide
domain, and, here and there, from every wilderness,
every hamlet, town, and village, there is a cry coming
up, " Sirs, we be brethren ! Help us as the Lord hath
prospered you!   Send us Missionaries ; assist us in
sustaining them ! Help us to build sanctuaries ; help
us to found colleges; help us to make this fair wilder-
ness blossom as the rose !" Our children are growing
up, without the baptismal covenant; our "young men
and maidens" are joining the ranks of heresy or schism
our old men and women, our fathers and mothers, are
sinking into the grave, without the cheering voice of the
Priest of the Church, without the comforting message
of love, without the symbols of the broken body and
shed blood of the Son of God! Ye who are wealthy,
ye whom the Lord hath put in possession of the abun-
dance of the isles and the seas, and so hath made
stewards in his vineyard, hear our call ! We ask you
not to bestow on any less; but do not quite forget us !
Turn us not away enpty, when we call upon you !
Picture 3d. Mrs. Fastidious is very busy, arranging
a great clerical dinner to be given to Dr. Riproarer.
The noise of the whitewasher and scrubber is heard in
the streets ; the windows are naked ; the rich tapestry
curtains, which cost several hundred dollars each, and
which flash their brilliancy from their gold and silver
figures, are down; and the paint-brush is busy on the
sash and frames; the velvet carpets are all removed ;
the brass is rubbed ; the chandeliers are decorated:
every thing, from the attic to the cellar, is in commo-

tion. Mrs. Fastidious in her chamber, is being meas-
ured and fitted with a magnificent velvet dress, while
on her head rests a gorgeous head-dress, in which she
is to appear at diner, and which sparkles with costly
jewels, which, so soon as the chandeliers are lit, will
throw her light far and near around her. She is deter-
mined to shine by her own light, and not her husband's,
as the old law used to read. " It is very becoming,
Ma'am ! A beautiful thing, indeed I" And Mrs. Fas-
tidious smiles very graciously. A ring at the bell !
" Dear me, who would interrupt me now ? I do wish
people would
" Mrs. Rector, from the country, wants to see you,
Ma'am !"  "Ah, yes ! Tell her I'm busy; beg to be
excused ! I'm fixing for company; a dinner to Dr.
Riproarer; can't possibly see her now !"
Mrs. Rector departs, not, however, without sad re-
flections. She has come to town to call, instead of her
husband, on a few wealthy Church ladies, soliciting a
few dollars for the building of his little chapel.
She is an indefatigable woman, not easily discouraged;
therefore she determines to seek Mr. Fastidious at his
office. lie is very wealthy, and will certainly give her
something very handsome!
" No, Madam, I'm not able. I have to give so much
at home. Remember, I had to pay a tax of two hun-
dred and fifty dollars, six months ago, towards liquida-
ting our Ohurch debt.
Of course, Mr. and Mrs. Fastidious think themselves
good Christians. Their money is their own. Dr. Rip-
roarer's dinner-party cost upwards of two thousand
dollars. What of that ?  it made Mr. and Mrs. F.

276     THE 1PLEMMERTONS; OR,


r
i
ht
}
f

2T8       THE BLEMMER TONs; OR,
popular, gave them eclat in the world ; while fifty dol-
lars to the little church would never have been heard
of in this world. There would have been no "spout-
ing" about it.
Now, we could have told Mrs. Rector how to gain
access to the pocket of Mr. and Mrs. Fastidious. How?
Get up a "spouting," a popular demonstration; popu-
larize the thing; sound a trumpet; get up a sympa-
thetic meeting, with reporters, etc.; catch them in the
crowd, and then the money will come! There's noth-
ing for such gentry like "spouting !" If you do not
popularize the thing, so far as they are concerned, you
might as well give it up.

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

279

CHAPTER XXIV.
A NEW IDEA. A CASE OF CASUISTRY. MR. STRAGGLER, THE
MISSIONARY FROM THE WEST. SOME DISCLOSURES.
WE should, ere this, have announced the fact, that
Mrs.. Fussy delivered the truth, when she with indigna-
tion informed Mrs. Nochurch, that Miss Deliah Airmyth
Blemmeton was engaged to be married to one Mr.
Slopill. This betrothment had existed for the year
past. Mr. Slopill was said to be a man of some tal-
eut in his line; kept a pretty large bacon and feed
store; dealt in eatables in general; and was celebrated
for good wines and cigars, and patent quack medicines.
But he lacked energy, and was what would be called a
"slow coach;" it took time and perseverance to move
him.
When called behind his counter, by the hasty rap-
ping of a penny in the hand of an urchin, for a cent's
worth of snuff, or a plug of tobacco, though it were a
case of life or death depending on the promptitude of
his movements, he would always take time, in the "of-
fice," as, par excellence, he termed a little private room
in his store, to comb his whiskers, which were quite lux-
uriant, brush his hair and teeth, and otherwise make his
toilette. Ie was never known to be in a hurry but
once, and that was when he was running away from an
anxious creditor.
It was amusing to watch the little begrimed urchins,


280        THE BLEMMEETONS; OR,
holding aloft the mighty penny, and ever and anon slap.
ping it down with considerable irritability on the coun-
ter,-whack, whack, whack ! as if the wheels of the
world stood still, while they were unserved, and they
were anxious to start them. Whack, whack, whack !
Oh me, manny is in a hurry; I'll git whipped! I do
wish-"    "Be there in a moment!" cries a voice
from before the looking-glass in the office. "Soon as
lie's done his whiskers !" says another urchin. Out
walks the veritable gentleman, all done up, elegantly
combed, brushed, sleeked, and powdered.
"And what'll you hey ?" " And please, Sir, a pen-
ny's worth o' snuff. And mammy's in a hurry; and I'll
get whipped !" "' Spose your mammy won't die for it
in so short a time ! You made noise -enough to hey
ben a purchaser to the amount of a thousand dollars !"
says whiskers, rather testily. "And you," says Young
America, retiring with the snuff, "took as long to comb
your head, as my daddy would take to barbarize a
dozen monkeys." And away ran Young America,
singing Yankee-Doodle.
Poor Mr. Slopill had to bear it. "A fig on all chil-
dren!" said he, gritting his teeth, "children and babies
are humbugs; I really wish they'd keep away from
here. Babies do nothing but whine, and screech,,and
cry, the puling things ; and as soon as they are old
enough to talk, they are chock full of all evil and abom-
inable wickedness. That fellow's head hasn't been
combed since the hair grew upon it. A humbug they
are, every one of them. I don't know what they are
made for, except to give trouble." And so Mr. Slopilli
would continue to scold at the whole race of juveniles,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  281

until he soothed his irritated feelings, and avenged his
insulted dignity. If he was not a rnisogamist, he was,
while in one of these pets, a confirmed child-kater.
But, withal, Mr. Slopill was rather an agreeable and
gentlemanly man; a good deal given to dandyism, but
quite free from another filing, an over-stock of goo
common sense. Yet, somehow, calculating mamas and
papas did not altogether fancy him as.a brilliant match
for their daughters: they thought him too inert; a mere
seeker of a wealthy matrimonial alliance. While, there-
fore, he was quite a favorite, with some of the young
ladies who admired a handsome pair of whiskers, a
sleek head, tiim-fitting kids, boots, and a handsome
cane, he was far from being popular with the older
heads.
Mr. Blemmerton did not fancy him at all; because,
when lie was a lad serving his apprenticeship at the
grocery business, he refused to carry a middling of
bacon home in his hand to a customer. A man or boy
who was above his business, was not the one for Mr.
Blemmerton. And we give Mr. B. due credit for such
a decision. He was right, for once in his life, all de-
murrers to the contrary, notwithstanding. Mr. and Mrs.
Blemmerton were therefore opposed to Mr. Slopill's ad-
dresses; he was not the man for tiem. Mr. B. had no
money to spend in trimming and training whiskers,
buying scented soaps, ivory combs, gold-headed canes,
and the like. And when matters came to a crisis, Mr.
Slopill was forbidden the house; and, so far as the pa-
rents were concerned, the. whole affair was dissolved
into thin air.
Not so with Miss Deliah Airmyth and Mr. Slopill.


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

Miss Deliah having not been trained in the strict
school of parental obedience, possessed too of a touch
of the romantic in her composition, determined to coun.-
teract the determination and advice of her parents, and
continue the betrothment, trusting to time and chance
for future developments-: hence, a clandestine corre-
spondence was kept up between the parties; and they
met occasionally, by accident, as they would have it
supposed, at the house of some mutual friend or ac-
quaintance.
And here for the present we must leave them, with
the remark, that in thus acting upon the principles of
duplicity, Miss Deliah was only developing the elements
of the false education she had received.
It happened on a certain day, memorable in the his-
tory of that portion of the citizens of the city of
who composed the congregation of St.   's church,
that Mr. Lovegood was invited to dine with Mr. and Mrs.
Nochurch; and that, but a few days before the noted
discovery, made by Mr. John Nochurch and Mrs. Fus-
sy's servant girl Jane, of Mr. Lovegood's entry into the
groggery of Pat O'Ryman. There was quite an assem-
blage; and, among the number, the Blemmerton family,
all except Mr. Ben Slocum Sapientium. As usual on
such occasions, the conversation was chiefly of a gen-
eral character. Mru-Lovegood threw in a word occa-
sionally, that savored of soundness of speech and whole-
some doctrine, or otherwise cheered the day by enli-
vening and instructive conversation. Mr. Elemmerton
and Mr. Nochurch discoursed of stocks, trade, the
tightness of the money-market, the latest news in the
commercial world, and Mr. Heartful's late speech in

Congress, which Mr. Blemmerton thought a decided
failure, and threatened to discontinue one of his papers,
on account of its laudations of the speech aforesaid.
The elderly ladies discussed Mrs. Friendly's new car-
riage: one thought it a very clumsy affair; another
thought that it would do for her. They also laid plans
for the latest styles of furniture, and the new furnishing
of their several establishments. Mr. Blemmerton in-
quired very particularly respecting Agnes Wallace, Mr.
Lovegood's charming little protegee. The young ladies
discussed the last ball, the forth-coming lectures, operas,
etc.; and their several prospects in the matrimonial
market.
Mrs. Presbyterian started the only question in casu-
istry. Speaking in strong terms of condemnation of
Mrs. Friendly and Mrs. Hopeful, she said she thought
they had better conceal their faults; they were so very
faulty in many respects, that it was really shameful.
Miss Julia Jasper for the first time heard these ladies
condemned. She believed, that, if they had faults, they
were of a very trifling character; for her part, she
thought them faultless; still, if they had faults, she was
clearly of the-opinion that they should not endeavor to
cloak them, and pretend to be what they were not; that
she thought would be hypocritical. On this question
the ladies kept up a spirited conversation; one espous-
ing one side, another the other; one thought it dutiful to
conceal one's faults, another contended for the contrary.
It involved a casuistical inquiry which baffled the la-
dies ; at last they appealed to Mr. Lovegood, and
opened the whole case to him, requesting his judgment
in the premises.

282

283

THE ]3LEMMERTONS; OR,


284

THE BLEMMERToNs; OR,

"Ladies," said he, "I will endeavor to solve your
question in the fewest possible words. It is best, if we
can possibly have it so, not to have faults either to con-
ceal or expose." Answer the question better, if you
can. It satisfied the ladies, at least it brought the dis-
cussion to a close. And -it must not be disguised, that
several of them about that time looked half-innocent,
half-guilty, as though they suspected him of having
some hidden meaning in his solution. Whether he had
or not, is not material. The proposition is a good one;
but not so easily carried out to the very letter.
The day passed quietly away, with but a single iiter-
ruption ; the call of a Missionary from the great West,
soliciting means to aid in building a church. Mrs. No-
church invited him into a private parlor, informed him
that she had company, which was, of course, a gentle
hint that he should make his stay as short as possible,
profiting by which (on the principle, verbum sap.) the
good Missionary, like a prompt business man, without a
long preface, came to the point at once. ie was min-
istering in a new country, in a very promising field -
but, as in almost all the new countries, the people did
not fully appreciate the Church. Besides, they were
but recently settled, just getting under way, and their
means were limited; yet, as far as they were able, they
were willing to help themselves along, and had done so
with a liberal hand. Still, after almost superhuman
:efforts at home, they lacked a thousand dollars, to
complete their cherished sanctuary; and his vestry had
requested him to call on a number of the wealthy and
influential Churchmen in that city, to solicit their kind
offices. He felt assured, that few more worthy objects

I

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

285

. could be presented to her kindly and charitable consid-
eration. His church was in the chief city in that new
and flourishing country ; and its influence was destined
to be felt, not only at home, but all over that vast re-
gion ; and, therefore, he could not doubt, that, wherev-
er he went, he should meet with a generous response.
Mrs. Nochurch took the Missionary's subscription-
book ; and rapidly conning it, reading every name and
the amount subscribed by each, returned it to hiu  with
the remark: "Pm  sorry, Sir, that we can do nothing
for you. We are poor, Mr. Straggler, and have little to
give, beyond our charities at home. Indeed, we have
to pay so much for pew-rent here, that we are able to
do very little more. Fifty dollars pew-rent, Sir, per
annum, is a great deal for one family to pay for a pew.
Mr. Lovegood's salary is put at so high a mark, that it
strains us all very much ;.and, indeed, it is whispered
that, in these hard times, it must be increased ; if so, I
know not what we are to do.
" Know it is said, Sir, that we are rich ; but, indeed
it is-a grave mistake. We have, it is true, just received
a legacy of one hundred thousand dollars, and had,
prior to that about sixty thousand dollars worth of
property; but this is very far from. being a fortune.
Many of our friends say, that they will, account us poor
till we are worth a million.
" And yet, notwithstanding our poverty, we are very
charitable. I pay my milliner two hundred dollars per
annum ; my mantua-maker I pay four hundred ; my
washer-woman, two hundred ; and then the upholster-
er, shoemaker, hair-dresser, confectioner, these all come
in for a large portion of our charities. On the score of


286

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

charity, then, after paying fifty dollars pew-rent, we
feel entirely clear, and certainly are clear."
The good Missionary thought that these expenditures
could not be classed fairly amongst charitable dispensa-
tions : they were rather involved in the necessary ex-
penses of a large family and of numerous entertain-
ments. They were expenditures for services rendered,
value received, and therefore, not to be classed among
charitable distributions.
Mrs. Nochurch begged leave to differ from him in
opinion, very essentially. They were charities; for they
could, if they would, curtail nearly t1iree-fourths of
them ; therefore he must grant that three-fourths of
them, or near it, were charities. For her part, she did
not know what such dependants would do, should all
the people in the " best society" curtail their expenses.
They would 'certainly starve ; and, therefore, she
thought it would be sinful in them to do so. And it
was as much on that account as any other, that she dis-
bursed her means so bountifully among them.
The poor Missionary had never met a case like this
before. It was a novelty of a rare order. " Ah, Mad-
am," said he, smiling at the happy thought, "my great
country opens her rich bosom to all such 'dependants'
as those of whom you speak. if they should be de-
prived of the means of subsistence, by the cutting-off
of their bread here, in the loss of 'the charities' of
which you speak, it would be to them a real blessing,
if it turned their feet to that mighty region toward
the going down of the sun, which is ready to open its
treasures of abundance and pour them into their laps.
And then, too, perchance, Madam, a portion of that

F

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

287

three-fourths of the whole expenditures of the weJthy,
that now flow out in such ' charities' as pamper lust,
and pride, and fashion, might flow in the channels of
the Church, and become real blessings to the world. I
have, I must tell you frankly, Madam, but little faith
in ' charities' of the class named by you. They spring
not, I dare avouch, from any love of the poor artisan,
but from a love of the world, and the pleasures of a
pampered heart, doating on its own fond hankerings af-
ter display in the world."
Here the good Missionary, seeing his prospects slen-
der, with a sad heart takes his hat, and is about to
make a graceful exit, when the lady requests him to be
seated a moment, saying that a very wealthy lady, a
millionaire, is in the house, who is known to be very
liberal, whom she will ask to see him.
In a few moments Mrs. Blemmerton is introduced to
the Missionary. She receives his story very graciously;
informs him that she has nothing with her, but gives
him the street and number of her residence, and
requests him to call in the evening, when Mr. Blem-
umerton would be at home, and they would likely respond
favorably to his call.
iProspects were brightening. -Hope is full of comfort.
Hope is a golden pillar, set around with jewels, bright
and sparkling, and flashing in their own light. lope
contends with despair, chases away despondency,
buckles on the armor of perseverance, surmounts diffi-
culties, lives in bright prospects and on bright smiles,
sees through the clouds, looks in to the sunshine. With
many thanks, and a cheerful smile, the Missionary took
his departure.


i
,t
s
'
,      ;
.i
z
,
j,((
+
tI{'
fj
[!
I
i
' r r   i
7' F    1
'1
i
1
1       !
! !
+i
{i       {
{ ;
,
:
 
,
; ;
:   ;
'
s
,;
t-
'
z

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

The ladies returned to the drawing-room, and were
joined by the gentlemen in a few moments ; all of
them, at least, except Mr. Lovegood, who, wrapped in
his own meditations, sat in the back portico, thinking
about Heartfulville, his pleasant study, the wrens and
the mockings, the elms-and the roses.
" La! Mrs. Blemmerton," said Mrs. Nochurch, " did
you read that list of subscribers ?" "No, I did not."
Well, it was a curiosity. Would you believe, that
Mr. Friendly's name is down for two hundred dollars?"
"I want to know! That man is certainly destined for
the almshouse. He's scarcely worth fifty thousand
dollars ; doing a small business : only making ten
thousand dollars a year. Yesterday, a new carriage
and a pair of horses that did not cost less than eight
hundred dollars, though it's a plain, common thing;
and to-day, two hundred dollars to go away off to that
outlandish country."
" And then," continued Mrs. Nochurch, " Mrs.
Church's name is down for a hundred dollars ; and you,
know she is very poor. Mr. Happy, Mrs. Charitas,
Mrs. Hopeful, and Mr. Goodall are each down for
seventy-five dollars. Now, if Mr. Lovegood's salary is
to be increased, as they say it is, how much more
becoming would it have been in them, to give it to the
vestry for that purpose. But I suppose their money is
their own : still, it's certainly very foolish for people to
be so lavish of their means. They may come to
want themselves ; and then, if I'm not mistaken, they'll
learn a lesson."
Mr. Blemmerton thought, truly, it did not concern
them. "A fool and his pence," said he, "soon part

company. As to Mr. Friendly, he had long since
known that he did not know the worth of money. But,
he was a peculiar man ; denied himself almost the
common necessaries of life, that he might give his
money away to every snivelling beggar that came
along ; built fine houses to rent to mechanics, that
made them above themselves, and scarcely paid him
five per cent. on the investment. But it was no concern
of theirs ; they need not trouble themselves about it."
" He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord."
This was an investment that never crossed the specula-
tive path of Mr. John Blemnmerton.   His lifetime
charities were confined to the brief period when he was
silly enough to allow his own pride to run him as a
candidate for Congress. He was now fully satisfied,
that mankind were ungrateful. This was his hobby
he had no faith in humanity ; a man's charities were
not appreciated. He had no more favors to ask, none
to grant. He was safe for this world, as he thought ;
as to the next, he would leave it to take care of itself.
Alas! that mankind should so trifle with their immortal
destinies.
We have somewhere read a thrilling incident of a
party of pleasure, in a boat on the -coast of Norway,
who ventured out to the outer circle of the eddy of the
Maelstrom. It was a daring and perilous enterprise ;
and perhaps its very peril was the incentive to the trial.
Having made every preparation, away they dash, a
merry company of young men and maidens, through
the foaming sea. They approach the outer circle of the
Maelstrom: there all is calm and serene. They glide
into the enchanted circle, withdraw their oars, and give

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

289

288


.1

TIE BLEMMERTONS; oR,

!ti
f'
fi
f ii
i!
!
fl
,
fj .
it
i;
f
it
131
i
i
t7
1
I
1S!3
1$
1e
r
i
I'
e
Ij
t!
I
i
i.
I
,I
i
li
j
ii
t
i{

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

291

themselves up to its revolving tide. Round they go;
slowly, leisurely, delightfully. All are joyous ;-all
happy. The merry laugh rings over the deep, blue
wave. They will enjoy the exciting scene awhile, ply
their oars, and escape from their impending doom.
But time passes on ; round they go, circle after circle,
each faster than the other, each approaching nearer to
the awful vortex.
The waters now begin to be slightly agitated ; they
grow a little uneasy, but it is time enough yet to
escape. A  few more intoxicating rounds, and then
they will ply their oars. Suddenly there is an awful.
p     ; the merry laugh has ceased ; pale fear sits on
every countenance ; the cold sweat-drops gather on the
brow. The waters begin to foam and lash ; and lo !
there is the portentous roar of the dreaded vortex !
They are approaching that gulf from which there is
no return. And now the oars fly out, and stalwart
arms strike for life. But, alas ! too late. That mighty
tide is stronger than they. That weak boat trembles, in
every timber and every joint. Each heart is petrified.
Each eye is set in the glare of death. The revolving
tide rages, and foams, and roars, and lashes itself in
its fury, sending tip its hoarse laugh in mockery of the
wail of its victims. They must measure the depths of
that awful Maelstrom, and be cast away in the wide
ocean of eternity.
And how many, alas ! of the children of this world
are revolving on that tide of destruction! How many
of the characters whom we have introduced to the
reader, are rapidly approaching the dreaded vortex!
Remonstrance is in vain. They will not hear the

See the beautiful paraphrase of Bishop Home.

290

warning voice. A little more pleasure of this world,
a little more saving to the flesh; they will close their
ears against the ominous sounds that fall upon them.
Round they go; it is time enough yet; it is so delight-
ful; I will bask awhile in the billows,-play in the
foam,-but, alas ! all on a sudden, they are gone ! One
long, low wail, and all is over!
" O, set me up on the Rock that is higher than 1."
Ps. lxi. 3. Ah, place yourself in the position of that
wild party of pleasure; and then fancy, that before you
rises a bold rock in its majesty, against which that re-
volving tide lashes its waves and spends its fury in
vain. It is a haven of security, if you can only reach
it. Upon its proud, defiant pinnacle, if once you can
but plant your feet, you may rest, and laugh at the
mighty waves that roll beneath you.
Oh, how those trembling, defenceless maidens in
that maddened whirlpool would have cried out to the
stronger arms, "0, set me up upon the Rock, that is
higher than I!"
And this is what we all have, in the great Maelstrom
of the world. There is a mighty Rock set there in the
midst of its troubled waves, defying all their furious
lashings and roaring; and, throughout the wide world,
there is a voice crying day by day, and day by day
does the prayer of the Church Militant ascend to
heaven, "0, set me up upon the Rock that is higher
than I."*
This is the Rock of our Salvation, even Jesus Christ.
Grounded upon Him as lie pervades and fills the

;
('
!k            r
;           ,, _
I
#
!
?
.
,, 9,., _ ..


1
4  ,
Ak
,,
,f
'i
' i
'
; ,
; :

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

i
r
s
t
I
f
1
a
I
r
l
I
{
i
t
i
di
t
r

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

293

bf}!
It
f It
t
1
'l.
,
i s
,!
;
r
i
Z
t
;

292

Church with grace and glory, through faith in His
Atonement and exaltation in the use of the means of
His own vouchsafement, we may look out upon the
waves around us, as from the mighty rock in the Mael-
strom, and laugh in our security, as they dash them-
selves to pieces beneath us.
But, alas ! the children of this world are slow in real-
izing so momentous a truth. They spend all the day on
the giddy whirlpool; and, when the night comet, there
is a thick darkness, and they cannot see the Rock: and
then they cry, perchance, "0 set me upon the Rock !"
But ah, late,-too late we fear; the mists are growing
thicker; the lights are too feeble; the day is gone and
past; there is a thick darkness; who can say that the
Rock will be found? It may be, indeed,-'tis possible
with God. But who will hang his destiny upon so
slender a thread! Nay, nay; cry while the day lasts;
work while it is called to-day; for the night cometh
when no work may be done. Work when the sun
shines, and the glow of youth and life is fresh; work
while the voice calls, Come,.-0 my children, come!

1 1

CHAPTER XXV.
MR. NOCIIURCHIS DONATION TO MR. STRAGGLER.   MR.
FRIENDLY s SHOSPITALITIES. GOD'S PROVIDENCE ILLUS-
TRATED.  MR. STRAGGLER'S PRACTICAL CONVERSATION
WITH MR. BLEMMERTON.
MR. NoonuRcn listened, with evident concern, to the
last-named conversation between his wife and his guests,
but observed a profound silence. He was revolving in
his mind a plan, which, had he dared to speak of it,
he would have named to his wife ; moreover, he would
have expressed his deep regret, that she did not inform
him when Mr. Straggler was present. It struck him
very forcibly, that persons who could afford to give so
many handsome dinners and other entertainments as
they did, could, or ought to, afford to assist so worthy
a cause as that presented by the Missionary. Thotmgh
not a thoroughly instructed Churchman, nor a commu-
nicant, Mr. Nochurch was a man of good intentions,
and, when rightly approached, of warm and kindly
sympathies; and with a proper help-mate, he would,
long ere this, have been a consistent Christian, a really
pious and useful man.
His wife managed, for the most part, affairs at home;
and, unless an application of the kind presented itself at
his place of business, he rarely heard any thing of it.
He was pained, and deeply mortified, that such a Mis-
sionary as Mr. Straggler, of whose good report he had

GI

r
t)E
1t
i
f,
i,
i'
i'
?1

}       1
}
! !
",
fit!
,.,.g___.__ .,.


1r
r
" t,
, ,aa
f'
r{
r
E
1{7
, iry
,!f
{
{
1il'1
r
r.
iii
S f
!3
!      U

rl T ETBI.I+EAMME1RTP0NS; 0OR7

often heard, should be sent away from his door empty;
and that, too, on an occasion when they were liberally
spending a very handsome sum in playing the agreeable
with their friends and neighbors.
His conscience was ill at ease; yet he knew       how
hopeless a task it would be to say aught to his wife.*
He treasured in his heart a portion of Mr. Lovegood's
sermon, the Sunday before, on the character of Lot;
that portion, especially, in which he dwelt on the duty
of entertaining strangers, and ministering to their ne-
cessities, in which he said, that in so doing, " we often
entertain angels unawares," who are sent out by our
heavenly Father to minister blessings unto us. Mr. No-
church meditated long and earnestly o1 these thoughts;
and the more he meditated, the more distinctly (lid the
path of duty appear marked out before him.          Who
knows, mused he to himself, but that the Missionary
was an angel of mercy and love, commissioned to bless
my house.    Woe is me, if he hath shaken off the dust
of his feet as a testimony against us
The afternoon had worn pretty well away; the length-
ened shadows of the neighboring houses gave token of
the approach of night, when Mr. Blemmerton begged
* The writer is giving sketches of character. Such a character as
that of Mrs. Nochurch, he rejoices, is rare.eHe also rejoices in the
acknowledgment, that to woman belongs every noble and generous
impulse; and he thinks that in this work he has given to her the meed
of just and honorable praise. On that score he has nothing to fear.
But the rule is not without exceptions ; and it must be acknowledged,
that, now and then, such as Mrs. Nochurch are found, as well as,
among men, such as Mr. Blemmerton. We promised to blend the two
sides of life in one picture, but disclaim any thing more. We aim at
no cIasses or creeds in particular.

)OTT IN G S BY TI-HE WAYLSTI)DE.

295

to be excused, to go to his business. Mr. .Nochurch,
who for some time had been a little restive, accompa-
nied him to the street; and, after a walk of a few
sc1uares, they parted, Mr. Elemmerton for his counting.
room, Mr. Nochurch on an errand that will do him
credit.
In the eyes of the " upper-tens," Mr. Friendly was
not a wealthy man; but he always. had enough, and
something to spare for any worthy cause that presented
itself. If not rich in money, he was rich in faith. His
charities for the year past had been very large; for it
had been a year of extraordinary trials to the poor, and
indeed to all classes. He had almost entirely support-
ed Mrs. Wallace, till the day of her death ; the cholera
had raged with terrible destruction, desolating the
hearths and homes of thousands, sweeping off numbers
of his tenants, leaving helpless widows and sorrowing
orphans, to all of whom he had relinquished their rents,
and besides had contributed unsparingly to their neces-
sities. No mouth went unfed, no body unclothed, of
all who came under the broad mantle of his charities.
These extraordinary outgoings had indeed absorbed
every dollar of ready money that could be spared from
his business. And in addition to all this, his own dear
wife had been brought to the brink of the grave, by an
attack of cholera, which had left her exceedingly pros-
trated,in very delicate health, which threatened to ter-
ninate in consumption. At the instance of her physi-
cian, lie had been induced to purchase a carriage and a
pai ofhoresthat every suitable afternoon she might
enjoy a ride in the pure country air. This had added
largely to his expenditures. It had also been agreed,

291

'
I
i
'
y 4
;
t1
, f
i i'
t!
~I
t,,
t
a'
fi',1
,r
E,
j f
{
,' 1
11
/

1
i
i
t
j
SI
i=
1i
1

H;H
i
t          ; f
F
t;
i'
,t


296

THE I3LEMMERTONS; OR,

!t Il
lit
ft
1;

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

90

that Mrs. Friendly should take a trip to the White
Sulphur Springs in Virginia. Every arrangement had
been made ; and she was bringing her preparations for
the departure to a close.
The day before that on which he called on Mrs. No-
church, the Missionary, the Rev. Mr. Straggler, had
called and presented his claim to Mr. Friendly at his
office. Mr. Friendly invited him to call at his residence,
at two o'clock, and take dinner, at which time he would
make such a response as lie found himself able to do.
Hurrying home an hour earlier than usual, he presented
the case to his wife. To him it was one of difficult
solution. He had only two hundred dollars at coin-
mand, for any purpose ; and this he had been husband-
ing for Mrs. Friendly's trip to the Springs. With him,
it was sacred; he could not touch a dollar of it. And
yet how should lie deny that faithful and self-forgetting
Missionary ?-a man who had severed himself from all
the ties of home and kindred, to preach the glad tidings
of salvation in a far-off land, amidst trials of'ill-health,
poverty, hardships, and self-denial ! On the other
hand, the claims of his sick wife twined about his
heart ; they anticipated such beneficial results from the
use of the sulphur water, that he had it not in his heart,
to offer to deprive her of such a benefit.
My dear," said the amiable and pious wife, " give
yourself no uneasiness on my account; this is a call
from God. Do not hesitate a moment, as to what you
are to do with that money ; the silver and the gold are
the Lord's ;give it unto Him ; His blessing is more to
be desired than all else. Were I to refuse that poor
Missionary, I should feel that I had refused the Saviour,

;1
((f
()t))tJ
tt
'+ t
!  Y
Pr

slighted His cause ; and then how could I ask his bless-
ing? No, my husband, let me never, in my own
wants, forget the wants of others; let me never, in con-
tributing to my own comfort, forget the cause and the
glory of Him, who, for my sake, became poor, and
humbled, and despised on the earth."  "That is like
my dear, good wife !" exclaimed Mr. Friendly, as the
tears welled up in his eyes, and he pressed her to his
heart, imprinting -a kiss on her wan, but smiling cheek.
The missionary was cordially received, kindly enter-
tained, and urged to make that his home during his
stay in the city ; nor did he ever know the self-denial
that that happy family made, to cheer his heart, and set
forward the Redeemer's Kingdom.
Had the little dinner party of the next day known
all, they would likely have been more profuse in their
comments on the folly of Mr. Friendly and his excel-
lent wife. But the Lord knoweth how to reward them
that are true of heart ;' and nogood thing will He with.
hold from them that love Him. Commit thy way unto
the Lord, and lie shall give thee thy heart's desire.
By an apparent freak in the business world, which is by
no means uncommon, a sudden rise in a particular
article in Mr. Friendly's business, placed him in pos-
session of -a surplus of six hundred dollars.
As usual, he was greeted by his wife, at night, with a
bright and cheerful smile ; and lie pressed her to his
bosom, his whole frame trembling with emotions of
joy: "You were right, my dear. The Lord will pro-
vide. You shall go to the Springs, and, better than all,
your dear husband will now accompany you." Never
did any give up any thing unto the Lord, without find-
130

'
,
~i
]]]] N
7f }
ii tkl_
{,
!i
; '
;f
I
,
((i
f1  t
'ii
I,
, t {
r';I
! i
+ 4
{
1
i
Il
!
,.
,,
1
4
,,
1' j
3,
)
jl


Ii
'Li
{,i.

THE L BLEMMEioTNs; OR,

ing a reward. 'The merciful goodness of the Lord
endureth for ever and ever upon them that fear him;
and His. righteousness upon children's children ; even
upon such as keep His covenant, and think upon
His commandments, to do them,' Ps. ciii. 1 , 18.
And so they did go - to the Springs, where they
spent two months ; and they returned in the Autumn,
with the blessing of restored health to the grateful
wife.
But it is time to return to the dinner party. After
Mr. Blemmerton and Mr. Nochurch retired, the ladies
called Mr. Lovegood from his meditations, and scolded
him a little, for so long depriving them of his company.
He made due apologies, excusing himself on a score of
a lack of gallantry; he knew his deficiencies in that
respect, and anticipated an easy and merciful verdict.
At this the ladies seemed to be particularly amused,
especially because, as one of them  remarked, Mr.
Lovegood was a gentleman of such rare, diversified
talents, that he could not, if he tried, fail to make him-
self remarkably agreeable everywhere.
The remainder of the afternoon wore along, as pleas-
atly as might have been anticipated. Mr. Lovegood
was a little fidgety. Being out of his element, he
longed to be in his study with his books; but he knew not
bow to excuse himself at so early an hour. The ladies
played and sang a few tunes; Miss Dele, with a good
deal of feeling, sang the " Happy Wife," and " Home,
sweet Home."   Mrs. Nochurch often went to the win-
dow, and cast her eye down the street ; returning, she
would give a knowing wink to Miss Dele, who seemed
to be altogether innocent of its meaning. At last it had

r

299

DOTTIN S BY THE WAYSIDE.

been repeated so often, that some one of the company
asked her whom she expected.
With a very bland, but significant smile, and wink-
ing again at Miss Dele, she remarked, in a negligent
way, that she did not know, but she thought Mr. Slopill
might possibly call in.  She knew that Mr. Slopill
would not think of such a thing while Mrs. Blemmer-
ton was present, for they were not "on terms."
Miss Dele desired to know why Mrs. Nochurch
looked at her. "Now, Dde !" exclaimed the lady,
"are you niot ashamed ?" "No, indeed I'm not," said
she, with affected indignation. " And it's high time
that old stale story had come to an end. Mr. Slopill is
nothing whatever to inc."
Mr. Lovegood, being a matter-of-fact man, was some-
what surprised to hear this, as he had heard the current
gossip, that Miss Dde and Mr. Slopill were betrothed.
It based him, notwithstanding he understood the con-
ceded prerogative of young ladies to deny such stories;
because it comported not with the character of a se-
rious person, as Mrs. Blemnerton had represented
her daughter to be,-a candidate for the honorable
post of a Sunday-school teacher, and one ardently de-
sirous of becoming a candidate for confirmation.
Therefore, with some surprise, and in a tone mani-
festing a strong presumption of doubt, he said, "I am
surprised, Mis Blemmerton, to hear you speak thus ;
and I must say, that, notwithstanding the. preroga-
tive conceded to young ladies in such topics, it is bet-
ter in some instances to be silent, than to commit one's
self-"
What he would have added, we know not for Miss

298

; . s
r
11
i
a  i
. ..- -


I'
I';ft
t IEII
ldit
i
iF
{llllll,9
!I
C ,1
f
s ,CIE
IIIJ
r I  'f
3+1i
I 1
!   i
f,  t
t            EfI .
'i'fl{
!         IR    i
{
f4
f
t
f'f
1!
I           If,
3 1 s i
rE
1 ',;1 I
i
E,'r
i
p:
{
E,
"t

Dele cut the conversation short, with the observation,-
"Indeed, Mr. Lovegood, you are greatly mistaken. In
serious earnestness, and I hope you believe me, and
shall be offended if you do not, there is no betroth ment
now between me and Mr. Slopill ; and mother knows
it !"  Mr. Lovegood was gallant enough not to disbe-
lieve the solemn asseveration of a lady; and there the
matter rested. A little while after, a suitable time having
arrived, he was glad of an excuse to retire. And in due
time the company all dispersed.
" What a strange moment will that be,
My soul, how full of curiosity,
When winged and ready for thy eternal flight,
On the utmost verges of thy tottering clay
Hovering, and wishing longer stay,
Thou shalt advance, and have eternity in sight !
When just about to try that unknown sea,
What a strange moment shall that be I"
NoRIs of Bemerton: quotedfrom.Burnet's Lives.
And now, if you follow Mr. Nochurch, from the
moment that he parted company with Mr. Blemmeirton,
you will find him going from hotel to hotel, in search of
the Missionary, the Rev. Mr. Straggler, diligently exam-
ining all the registers, in pursuit of his stopping-place.
He has already inquired at a dozen of the principal
hotels, without success.   There is but one more he
thinks it necessary to inquire at; thither he bends his
steps, opens the register, finds the name, but written
after it in pencil, " Gone to Mr. Friendly's."  On inquir-
ing, he found that Mr. Straggler had that day removed
to Mr. Friendly's. le returned to his office, and pen-
ned a brief line to the Missionary :

" REv. SIR :-Please find enclosed $25, in aid of your
work.
"I regBret not meeting you, .when you called at my
house to-day ; but hope it is not too late to do good.
"Very faithfully, etc.
" Rev. Mr. STRAGGLER.         W. NodiuiRto."
Mr. Straggler was surprised, when he opened the
note, to find so liberal a-donation from that house, and
rightly surmised that Mr. Nochurch had not approbated
the course of his wife. With his pencil lie marked the
donation in his book, and after tea repaired to Mr.
B emmerton's.
Here a very different reception awaited hin. Mrs.
Blemmerton, who appeared so fascinatingly gracious
and condescending in the morning, did not show her-
self at all. And Mr. Blemmerton, appearing to ~be in
a particularly bad humor, informed him that he had
been very unfortunate that day. He had entered into
a contract to furnish a large quantity of a certain arti-
cle, at a specified price ; and, while dining out, intelli-
gence had been received in the city, which caused a
sudden advance in it, and being obliged to buy at the
advanced price and sell by his contract, he had lost by
the operation about six hundred dollars, which had gone
into the pockets of old Mr. Friendly,-a man to whom
it would be of no service, as lie did not know the worth
of money. "So much," continued he, " for a man's
not being always at his post ; for, had I been at my
counting-room, I could as easily as not have made the
purchase of Friendly, before lie got intelligence of the
rise. But it serves me right, I doubt not.

THE BI L E M ME ET O N S ; O R,                   B

!
,,,,
{
,;
,{

i
'

300

001 .

)OT SIN GS BY  THE WAYSIDE.

t
°


It
I~t ,
t I s
ii +
'I.

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

808

002        THE DLEMMERTONS; ()OP
" And you are begging for a church in , are
you? Yes, I heard all about it. But, Sir, I must beg
to be exused for not contributing to such an object.
There are so many beggars now-a-days, that one caln
scarcely keep a dollar in one's pocket. I gave away five
thousand dollars last year, and got no thanks for it. And
as to giving money to build a church in  ,it is quite
out of the question. I might as well throw it away at
once. What do they want with a church in   ? It is,
I understand, filled up with horse-thieves, cut-throats, and
robbers; and what do they care about the gospel? It
is certainly useless, to send the gospel to such people."
Beg your pardon, Sir," said Mr. Straggler, with be-
coming dignity, "I did not suppose I should be quite
accounted a beggar, in calling on wealthy Churchmen
to aid a weak and struggling parish, to build a house
unto the Lord. With that, however, I am content, if
so be, I may but succeed. It is no disgrace nor dis-
paragement to me, to share in the lot of him who was
poor, desjised, and homeless on the earth.
" But you must stand corrected, Mr. Blemmerton, in
one respect.     is not made up, as you suppose, of
the vile of the earth. That there are bad men in my
State, I will not deny; and I am sorry to say they abound
everywhere. I doubt whether your great city can boast
exemption from them. We have, however, one conso-
lation ; the bad men in our State were not reared there ;
they came from the older States ; even your own State,
Sir, produced not a few of them. But, take our citi-
zens as a whole, there is not a more intelligent, active,
industrious, law-abiding people in this country.
" And yet, Sir, suppose I could admit the truth of

your proposition, that the citizens composing my State
are a set of thieves, cut-throats, and renegades, would
it not prove the reverse of your assertion? Would it
not be so much the more my duty, to preach the gospel
of glad tidings among them ; and yours, to contribute
unto its dissemination, that peradventure they might be
brought unto repentance and a better mind, and re-
claiimed from their wickedness? For, remember, our
blessed Lord came not to call the righteous, but sinners
to repentance. And His gracious invitation is, 'Come
unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I
will give you rest.' "
" Ha! ha ! ha! that is a pretty 'cute argument of
yours, Mr. Straggler; a good argument, Sir! and I'll
give you three dollars for it, for it's worth every penny
of it."  So saying, Mr. Blemmerton walked into an ad-
joining room, brought out the three dollars, which, hand-
ing to the Missionary, he took out his subscription book
and was about to enter it, when Mr. B. requested per-
mission to examine it.
" Mr. Nochurch, twenty-five dollars !" exclaimed he;
"after the conversation to-day.! so strange, so wonder-
ful! Some people will always be fools! Do not put
my name down, Sir. No, Sir, I have no such vanity;
besides, I rarely give in this way. I wait for the plate
to come round in church. That I think the legitimate
way to give; and then I always contribute. Don't put
my name down, Sir; enter it cash. I didn't care for any
one to know what I give. And bear in mind, if you
please, that I give the three dollars as a reward to your
acuteness, and not because I think that much of the
people of your State. 'I have heard some curious sto-

II[ il


ftl
,I
ii
1i     ,

ries from that country. It is a great place for seeing
elephants, mustangs, grizzly bears, wolves, and the like,
I believe; and you like it, do you, Sir ?"  "Yes, Sir;
because, I suppose, according to your estimate of it, I
like misery !"
"Pray, Sir, tell me whether I am not right in my rec-
ollections of reading some of the Journals of your Di-
ocesan Conventions, some years ago, in which there ap-
peared some very amusing parochial reports. One, if I
remember aright, read somehow in these words: ' Mat-
ters are proceeding as usual in my parish; every thing
is prosperous, and we have a good hope for the fuitre.
Of the two communicants last reported, one has died
and the other removed.' Another: 'After six years
of indefatigable toil and anxiety, we have at last suc-
ceeded in raising a vestry, and now we are fully organ-
ized, signs are brightening wonderfully, and we trust
now to move on with rapid strides.' I see little utility,
Sir, as I said before, in sending money to build churches
among such a people. It won't pay, Sir, you may de-
pend; I had better contribute to some of the needy
charities nearer home."
"It is well, Sir, for you to look at home, and I hope
you will liberally carry out that view. But, Sir, your
jests fail of point, since they have no application in the
Diocese to which I belong. You never read them in
its parochial reports; you may have found them in the
journals of some of the older dioceses. The Church in
my diocese is weak ; but, one soul is of more worth
than all the wealth and magnificence of your great city
combined, and I would cheerfully labor all the days of
my life in ,to save one soul from eternal ruin.

And now, Mr. Blemmerton, do you think you have yet
received the worth of your three dollars ? If not, I
will remain until you take it all out in such wares."
" 0 yes, Sir! I gave it freely, Sir, but would be pleased
to have a little more of your company. Your people
are very hospitable, are they not, Sir ?"
"Yes, Sir,sich is their general character, and I be-
lieve they deserve it. Hospitality is indicative of a
good heart; aid no people I think can be ranked in so
low a scale of humanity, as you are disposed to class the
people of my State, who live in the daily exercise of
such a virtue." " Could you give me an illustration,
Sir?"
"Yes, Sir, and a contrast if you like. A number of
years ago, duty obliged me to take a journey, by stage,
of about one hundred and fifty miles, to the capital of
my State. The first day, we made about fifty miles,
and lodged all night at a hotel on the road. Early in
the morning, we got off; and, after proceeding about
thirty miles, I discovered that I had left my gold watch,
the valuable and valued gift of a very dear friend, under
my pillow at the hotel where I had lodged. In an
hour's ride, we reached the next hotel on the road.
As we approachedII saw in a field a few rods off, a
gentleman whom I had never met, and with whom I
had no personal acquaintance, who was engaged with
his hands in his farming operations. While we tarried
for dinner, he walked over to the hotel and I made his
acquaintance. In the course of conversation, I informed
him of my misfortune; just then, the return stage drove
up. He called a servant from his plough in the field,
told him my story, 'And now,' said he, 'Bill, do you

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

l .
3
; . i
,

305

304

TILE BLEATMEErroNs; oiti,


TIlE BLEMMEgRToNs ; O i,

take the stage, and go back to Gunter's, and get this
gentleman's watch.' I protested that it was too much
for him to do, but it was useless; neither would he per-
mit me to pay Pill's fare, nor even make him a present;
he did all this himself.
" After dinner, we proceeded on our journey. I
reached my destination. The Legislature was in ses-
sion. On the third day after my arrival, I was stand-
ing, about midday, in the hall of the State House,
loojdng down the avenue that led to it, when I beheld
the gentleman walking up, my big watch-seal dangling
at his side. Think of it, Sir. He had sent his servant
a journey, at a heavy expense, and now had taken one
himself, all out of kindness to a stranger."
"But what has that to do with hospitality ?"  " Hear
me out, Sir. 'Sir, I am under very many obligations
to you; how can I sufficiently show my gratitude?
What am I to pay, Sir ? Surely, you will permit me
to pay Bills expenses, Sir?'
"'No, Sir, not one cent. But I have a charge to
make against you, Sir.' ' o, Sir, do say what it is; I
shall be too glad to comply with it if in my power.'
That you call on your return homeward, and spend
three months with mel'"
" And did you do it, Sir ?" exclaimed Mr. Blem-
morton. "He excused me with three weeks; and I
never spent so pleasant a time, in my life; and when
it expired, he sent me home in his own carriage.
This will give you an idea of the hospitality of my
State."
" And what of the contrast, Sir ?"  " Ah! I can give
you a couple of them, if you wish. Take the least first.

306

m-u~I~

11,4

if
Iti
E i

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             307
I was on a visit to a friend ; in what part of the world
I need not name. About night, a carriage drove up,
and a very intelligent lady and gentleman alighted,
who proved to be Mr. and Mrs. Tighter, from a village
some fifty miles off. They were exceedingly delighted,
once more to see their friends, Mr. and Mrs. Hearty,
with whom I was staying. Mr. and Mrs. Hearty re-
ceived them very kindly, and entertained them hospita-
bly. They had not met before, for a number of years.
Mr. and Mrs. Tighter were taking something of a pleas-
ure trip, and going on a visit to some distant relatives,
and had taken Mr. and Mrs. hearty's home in the way.
It was pleasant for old acquaintances thus to meet; and
our hosts played the agreeable, very handsomely. The
carriage was put away, the horse cared for, and our
friends passed a delightful evening. After breakfast
the next morning, several bandboxes were brought in,
and Mrs. Tighter opened one and displayed several
handsome bonnets. She had just taken them along,
she said, on sale. She thought some of her friends
might want a handsome bonnet, and it would assist in
paying expenses; she asked but a very small profit.
Mrs. Hearty of course had to buy a bonnet for sake of
' auld lang sync,' paying therefor a dollar more than she
could have procured it for in the nearest village."
Mr. Blemnerton is getting a little fidgety. "The
trade being over," continued the Missionary, "the car-
riage drove up, Mr. and Mrs. Tighter took a hearty
leave, urging Mr. and Mrs. Hearty to pay them a visit.
'Tightervilie,' said Mrs. Tighter, 'is, as you know, a
most charming place,-indeed the most charming you
ever saw ; and I can assure you, that there is one of the

p


TIE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.  309

best hotels there the country can produce. 0 you
would spend such a delightful time ; do come."
Mr. Elemmerton .gives the Missionary an icy look.
le continues, " A friend of mine returned to his
native land to get married. Of course he put up at the
village hotel, whose proprietor, it seems, had married
the sister of his intended wife. This gentleman was
very wealthy, had amassed a fortune by hotel-keeping.
My friend remained at the hotel, until the day of mar-
riage, paid his bill, and removed his baggage to his
father-in-law's. After spending a week or so, the time
arrived for him to take his bride to her new home.
The carriage was at the door, the baggage lashed on
behind, the bride and groom in, the whip cracks, and
they are about to drive off, when the brother-in-law, the
hotel-keeper, in breathless anxiety came running up,
Stop! stop ! stop!' exclaimed he; ' here, Mr.  , a
little mistake, a slight omission, I forgot it in your bill,
eighteempencefoir washing three skirts.'"
By this- time, Mr. Blemmerton was properly roasting
with his own choler. The Missionary, thinking that he
had given him the worth of his money, retired'; and
we opine, that Mr. John Blemmerton dislikes all mis-
sionaries. Nor are we surprised at it ; his three dollars
gone, foiled im his witticisms, and cut adrift, on his own
uncomfortable reflections. All this was quite sufficient
to render him taciturn, peevish, and unhappy.

CHAPTER XXV.

SHOWING AGNES' PROGRESS AT MRS. DENSMORE'S. SOME-
THING MORE ABOUT MR. BEN SLOoUM, DR. RIPROARER,
AND DR. SKYROCKET.
WE have paused to give neither day nor date as we
have proceeded. The events already related cover a
series of years. Agnes Wallace has been upwards of
two years at Mrs. Densmore's school ; has made rapid
progress; and has become a universal favorite with the
household. Mrs. Densmore's monthly reports to Mr.
Lovegood, of her progress, are highly gratifying;
every thing in  St.    's congregation appears to be
quiet and prosperous. Mr. Lovegood remains in total
ignorance of the disgraceful reports that are floating
about town, in regard to himself.
It has for. a long time been rumored, that he and Dele
Blemmerton are to be married. She denied it, on all
occasions ; but the knowing ones did not give her credit
for speaking the truth. Every body said it was- so ; and
what every body says must be true.
The ugly alley matter, too, has eked out, which is
corroborated by John Fussy's story. These reports
gained strength and received additions, as they passed
from one to another; and they were fast gathering into
a portentous cloud, which threatened to create a deluge.
Each of the busy-bodies added to the original story,
until it was magnified beyond the most sanguine antici-
pations of the original inventors.

tIn
n

308

I
t
I
l
f
i'
.1
f
r
Fty -,
{
t
i
i


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.   311

Mr. Lovegood, it was said by one, had been seen
coming from the theatre at midnight; had been seen
standing at a suspicious corner ; coming out of an alle
going into a groggery. Some were not sure that he
had not been seen lying in a gutter; others were quite
certain, that he had been seen in a state of intoxication.
Some, of course, glad to get any thing against a clergy-
man, believed, or pretended to do so, all these reports;
others treated them as they deserved, giving them no
credit whatever.
Poor Mr. Lovegood was certainly getting into an
uncomfortable predicament ; but he was as profoundly
ignorant of it all as an infant. He was about to be,
married, without his knowledge or consent ; his gown
was about to be taken off, on account of his drunkenness
and a hundred other offences, of which he was just as
innocent.
We pause not to draw a full picture of all that was
said or done ; how inquiries were made, surmises
founded, reports corroborated.  The great Book of
Life's Experiences has many a dark and darkened page,
written in gall and tears of blood, and blotched all over
with venon on such topics: let that suffice.
The Blemmertons, as it appeared to suit their interests,
observed a profound silence ; if they took sides at all,
it was thought they rather favored Mr. Lovegood.
Mrs. Blemmerton gave Mrs. Fussy a hint, that if these
reports were true, Mr. Lovegood could never marry
Deliah Airmyth; that was a settled point. But she
could not believe they were true, although it looked
suspicious: there was so much smoke, she feared there
must be some fire.

And here we must take up the thread of the history
of Mr. Ben Slocum Sapientium. After the conversa-
tion, recorded in a former chapter, between him and
Mr. Lovegood, in which, it will be remembered, he
placed himself under Mr. Lovegood's guidance as a
candidate for confirmation, Mr. Ben Slocum threw
himself in the way of a Presbyterian Elder, at whose
house Sally Fastidious was a frequent visitor, and re-
ported to him the purport, as well as he could, of the
conference between himself and Mr. Lovegood.  The
elder rubbed his hands in an ecstasy of delight. It
was the sweetest nut he had cracked for many weary
years.
He readily gained Ben's consent, to bring the matter
to the notice of Dr. Riproarer ; and it was agreed, that
an appointment should be made for him to meet Dr.
Riproarer, at the house of the elder that evening, at
which time and place Mr. Slocum was to -make an
exhibit of all the books that had been placed in his
hands by Mr. Lovegood. True to the appointment, Dr.
Riproarer was in place ; and Ben appeared with his
books. Dr. Rip examines them, one by one.
" Just as I expected," said he, " all on the uncharita-
ble, unchurchin g order. Beaven's Help to Catechising.
Well, I don't know much about that. Wilson on Con-
firmation. Ahi, ha! the Church system !-Confirma-
tion, eh ?-what flummery! - Ha! Percival on the
Apostolic Succession. Hobart's Apology. Ho, humph!
All pretty books to make a man a Christian. Mr.
Benjamin Slocum Sapientium, I must say to you'in all
charity, that if you read these detestable books, you
might as well go and be a "Catholic " at once. For

310

THE BLEMMERTONS; OIL'


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

Confirmation and the Apostolic Succession both are
held by the Catholics; and if you are going to be a
Catholic, go and join them at once. Away with such
trash ! You have been attending my church ever since
you were a little boy, and you have never heard any
thing about such stuff."
Dr. Riproarer never uttered a more sublime truism
in his life, than that last sentence. Mr. Slocum had
never heard any thing about such " stuff," from his
pulpit. But we opine, if he could work up a little
more of such "stuff" as he calls it, in his system,
he would be able to draw a distinction between Ro-
manism and Catholicism, and it would savor a little
more of the true Catholic and Apostolic Doctrines.
If Dr. Rip's argument, that Apostolic Succession and
Confirmation ought to be rejected, because Ronie
holds them, be good, for consistency's sake, he ought
also to reject the Bible, and Prayer, and Praise, and
the Sacraments, and Preaching, because Rome holds
them.
But this was not the only "stuff" Mr. Slocum had
failed to hear from Dr. Rip's pulpit ; or, if he ever had
heard it, he had not the mind to grasp it. Dr. Rip's
high-toned Calvinism, absolute, unconditional predesti-
nation to eternal life or death; had he heard it, and
possessed ordinary powers of ratiocination, lie would
never have sought such a guide in spiritual things, on
the principle that if he were (according to the supra-
lapsarian, before the fall, or according to the sublapsa-
ian, after the fall) predestinated either to salvation or
damnation, he need give himself little concern about

it, since nothing that he could do would alter the case,
one way or the other.*
" Now, Mr. Ben Slocum," continued the Doctor, "I
hope you will read none of these books. To speak
plainly, they are little better than spiritual poison. All
that you have to do, Sir, is to 'get religion.' And to
aid you in this work, here is a charming and precious
little book, which I will place in your hands. And to
show you my unbiased judgment, and unbounded
liberality, you may see from  the title-page it is by an
EpiscOpal clergyman, the Rev. Dr. Skyrocket, a man
of extensive learning and piety, an ornament to his
Church, a Christian in the true sense of the word, whom
I will endorse any and every where. I do not ask you
to read Presbyterian books ; read that book, Sir, an
Episcopal book; it will open your eyes, and you will
see what all this pretension about the Apostolic Succes-
sion, etc., is worth.
" Dr. Skyrocket, like a good Christian, and a liberal-
minded, intelligent man, acknowledges our Church and
orders to be as valid as his. He prefers Episcopacy,
not because it is of divine appointment, but because he
likes it best. I prefer Presbyterianism; and so I hope
you do, Mr. Ben Slocum."
* The Presbyterians of the present day affect to derive great com-
fort from our 17th Article of Religion. Strange, that they should be
willing to look in this direction for comfort ! How far they are privi-
leged to derive comfort from the aforesaid Article, may be gathered
from the opposition which it met at the hands of the Calvinistic party,
at the period it was first proposed. See Hardwick's Lambeth Articles.
His.; Ant: pp. 152 and 157.
14

U

312

313

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,


314

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

And we opine from Dr. Skyrocket's book, that he
would have found more sympathy and congeniality in
the bosom of Presbyterianism than lie found in the
Church. His sympathies were all with them ; and his
works, from time to time, had been of very great service
to Presbyterianism, since, in all such cases as that of
Mr. Ben Slocum, they had been extensively used, in
proselyting weak, unstable, and uninstructed members
of the Church into that system. We will, however, do
Dr. Skyrocket the justice to say, that that was not his
intenion. H~e was a sincere man, aiming merely to
disseminate his principles of liberality, and manifesi
his freedom from every taint of "bigotry" and "un-
charitableness." These he considered weaknesses, be-
neath the dignity of a man of spirit and independence ;
to be tied up to forms and creeds was abhorrent to his
feelings. His theological acquirements were very limit-
ed; he had never sounded the depths of theological
learning ; he had never breathed a thorough Church
atmosphere ; and therefore it was not to be expected
of him, that he should recognize the Church as a great
Institution set up in the world by her divine Lord for
the salvation of sinners.
Like numbers who tampered with Rome, until they
were carried into her arms or crushed beneath her
serpent-like coils, he had tampered with Sectarianism,
until he was completely under its control. And the
praises and high-sounding eulogies of his sectarian
friends, had a fascination, whose chain, had he so desired,
he could not have broken.
Mr. Benjamin Slocum Sapientium read the flaming
book of Dr. Skyrocket. Perhaps, he did. We do not

i
RI'
1'f
i
F
.
!
{
t
i
i

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

315

assert the fact; we rather doubt, whether I3en ever read
much of any thing.. But the result was just as certain;
all his protestations to Mr. Lovegood vanished, and, of
course, he came out, a drilled, decided, and triumphant
Presbyterian. How much "religion he got," we un-
dertake not to answer. This we know: it was duly
announced, that the new convert would be received into
connection with the Presbyteriai meeting, on the fol-
lowing Sunday. Of course, it was a great and thrilling
event, in the history of Dr. Riproarer's ministry ; nor
did he and his congregation fail to improve it, to the
full extent. It was a decided and magnificent triumph;
and will doubtless be recorded with due honor and
prominence in the history of Presbyterianism, as it is
handed down to posterity. Requiescat in pace. No !
Emblazon it on the banner and give it to the breeze !
It is a trophy that Dr. Riproarer can well afford to exult
in : he is welcome to it, we envy him not. All this
while, Mr. Lovegood has been kept in profound igno-
rance oft hese manouvres, He has often met and con-
versed with Ben Slocumi; but never the slightest hint
of this piece of wire-working has he received, either
from him or his aunt, who was privy to it.
Now here was a capital"hit for Dr. Riproarer; a re-
prisal from  Mr. Lovegood's flock; a member of the
Blemmerton family, wlo, all their lives, had been iden-
tified with that mummeryy," Episcopacy! Presbyte-
rianism was looking up. Dr.Riproarer could certainly
afford to lift his hat and make a respectful bow for such
a favor,-"11Knock-heads," as the Chinese say. It booted
nothing to him, that poor Ben knew not enough about
the Church to have enabled him to answer the first

lI

t

i
I

pf
1     illt  y
r,;(
1A y~1 i
t} j'
r,,:
,  ;:

'I


316      THE BLEMMERTONS; oR,

question in the Catechism. We ask his pardon; per-
Iaps had the direct question, "What is your name
been propounded to him, he might have answered,
" Benjamin Slocum." But he never could have an-
swered the second question. And this, it is true, was
not so much his fault, as that of his uncle and aunt, by
whom he had been brought up. Still, it robs Presby-
terianism of all ground of exultation, since Mr. Slocum
had no idea of discriminating between truth and false-
hood. He was about to become a Presbyterian; be-
cause policy dictated it, not because he thought Pres-
byterianism, par excellence, the truth. So far as he
had been trained at all, religiously, he had been reared
in the school of indifferentism; and now he was led
entirely by what he supposed to be his interests. Sally
Fastidious attended Dr. Rip's services altogether. It
was a great reprisal; a "big-guni" affair, and the most
was to be made of it.
Dr. Riproarer undoubtedly understood the whole
matter; but, thankful for small favors, few and far be-
tween as they were, he joyed, as Pythagoras did, when
he discovered his great geometrical problem; and, for
aught that we know, had he possessed them, he would
have sacrificed as many oxen; or as Archimedes did,
when he discovered the specific gravity of metals.
And had he, like the philosopher, been bathing, he
would have rushed out of the bath, exclaiming, "I have
found it! I have found it!"
Found what, Sir? "Mr. Benjamin Slocum Sapien-
tium, the nephew of Mr. John Blemmerton, is a Pres-
byterian."  Whew! you have found a "mare's nest,"
indeed. It was a capital hit, we say, for Dr. Riproarer;

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.             817
and he improved it, having in mind, no doubt, an aw-
ful consideration of all the gossip floating about to Mr.
Lovegood's prejudice. The next Sunday night, the fact
was duly announced, that Mr. Ben Slocum had made a
happy exit, after a searching examination and many
painful mental struggles, from the errors of Episcopacy;
and had been duly received into union with the Presby-
terian meeting.
The Doctor put on his happiest expression, while
making the announcement; congratulated his young
friend on his triumphant conversion, and urged him to
persevere,-a thing that he knew, according to his sys-
tem, lie would do. The evening's service wound up
with a "scorching sermon," as Mr. Nochurch charac-
terized it, on the pretensions of some bigoted, uncharit-
able Episcopalians, in which the Rev. Doctor did not
omit to dwell, with a scathing burst of indignant elo-
quence, on the shamefulness of clerical delinquencies
in general; and especially on the use of the smallest
amount of ardent spirits by a clergyman, except in
cases of sickness,-an exception which the doctor often
needed for his personal benefit. In truth, he was bold
to say, that lie had no confidence in any clergyman
who did not belong to a temperance society.
"A fine hit, that !" declared Aunt Sally Milk-and-
water, who had gone with the crowd, on this memora-
ble occasion; " a fine hit, that! A sorry set all preach-
ers must have been, before temperance societies were
introduced !"


THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

CHAPTER XXVII.
A DISCOVERY. AN IRISH ROW. A MORSEL OF CHARITY.
" LA ! if there be'int a funeral," ejaculated Mrs. Fus-
sy's girl Jane, as she loitered at the back-gate of her
premises one afternoon, a few weeks later than the
groggery story started. She ran in to inform Mrs. Fus.
sy, that a funeral procession was moving out from the
residence of Pat O'Ryman. " And sure enough, if Mr.
Lovegood be'int at the head of it."
The hearse moved slowly out of the alley, followed
by a few Irishmen and women, and proceeded to the
burial-ground. " Why, Jane, who is dead ?" inquired
Mrs. Fussy, with evident concern. "I don't know,
Marm; may be it's Miss O'IRyman ; I'll run over and
see."
Mrs. O'Ryman was dead. She had lived within a
stone's throw of Mrs. Fussy, for a number of years, and
now had been gradually sinking to the grave, for the
last six months, under the slow lingering tortures of
a cancer ; and though she was ill so long, and so long
residing near her; a partaker with her, too, at the same
altar ; a co-worshipper in the same sanctuary ; Mrs.
Fussy scam cely knew that such a being existed ; through
all her sickness, she had never sent a kind inquiry af-
ter her, nor proffered the slightest token of Christian
sympathy. Alas! that we should have to record so
painful a reminiscence.

F

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

319

318

But true, too true is it, that the heavenly doctrine of
the Communion of Saints, the great Brotherhood of the
Church, has been painfully lost sight of, or merged into
the over-masteri ng aims, ends, and interests of the pres-
cut life. We know that it has been nobly urged, that
the Church possesses all the elements that are required,
for a display of the most active charity towards the
world at large and her own children in particular; and
hence some, whose opinions we venerate, have taken a
stand of opposition to Church Brotherhoods, cu the true
ground that the whole Church is a Brotherhood, and
that it is only necessary to use and develop the means
in hand, to carry out the glowing and glorious chari-
ties of the Gospel.
In the abstract, this is a glorious truth. But, if the
Church has failed in her organic capacity, in any re-
spect, to meet the demands of poor trembling humani-
ty ; or, if her children have failed to strengthen her
hands, may not poor humanity cry aloud for succor,
and reach forth her feeble hand to grasp the next best
thing that proffers relief or comfort ?
The writer has but an humble opinion to offer, and
he offers it with fear and trembling ; but he believes it
to be the true view. The Church is a great Brother-
hood ; the greater contains the less ; let the less go on,
to accomplish what it can ; its influence will enlarge,
until all shall be absorbed in the greater. It is, we rev-
erently believe, a movement ill the right direction,-a
curative of a great evil. We think its grand effect is,
to be a fuller and more appreciat iv;e recognition of the
great Brotherhood.
Small Brotherhoods, of activity, within the circle of


a great Brotherhood, long too inactive! Is there any
contradiction involved-herein? No more, we apprehend,
than there is in the working of each independent par-
ish, in subjection to the federative principle of all the
parishes, in a Diocese ; or of each independent Dio-
cese, in subjection to the federative principle of the
whole Church.
The Church possesses all necessary elements, but it
must be granted that they are inactive, at least for all
the purposes that are required. Where are we to be.
gin to effect the cure? Certainly we must aim at the
seat of the disease. The disease lies in the Church's
children ; her children, then, must be exercised ; and
this is the work proposed by the lesser Brotherhoods,
working within the circle of the greater. " All true
remedy," Leighton says, "must begin at the heart;
otherwise, it will be but a mountebank cure, a false im-
agined conquest."
Another thing must be granted, that the Church, in
her organic capacity, has failed in duty ; for, she bears
towards her children the authority of a loving spiritual
mother, which authority she has not fully carried out in
a wholesome and loving discipline. She has, from
time to time, here and there, allowed too much of the
spirit of independency, too much of the spirit of indi-
vidualizing Christianity. It is her province to define
and enforce terms of membership; and in all respects to
carry out and develop the primary laws of the Gospel.
The only terms of membership are Baptism; this she
has clearly defined. But she has not so clearly defined
the duties springing out of that membership ; or, at

E.

320      THE BiLEMMERTONS; OR,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              321
least, she does allow, in her individual pastors, in many
instances, too meagre a performance of them. She
must take a more decided stand against worldliness.
Worldliness has continued to usurp, until it has well-
nigh eked out her powers of life, and powers of disci-
pline. This must be remedied, by a return to some-
thing like the primitive rule, of laying apart on the first
day of the week. It involves a weekly offertory, which
the Church, in her organic capacity, ought to enforce, as
she clearly has the right to enforce ; i. e., so far as the
opportunity to give is concerned; she can constrain
the clergy to do their part of it.
Again : when it is seen that numbers of her children,
and those, we mean, who are partakers at her altar of
the "IBread of Life," are devoted, soul and body, to the
world, what are we to expect but meagre charities?
charities that mock the poor, and put a scandal on the
Gospel. And is the Church, in her organic capacity,
not relax here? Has she no power of discipline to
remedy such an evil? How comports it with the duty
of communicants of the Church, to contribute fifty cents,
or a mere mite, to the great charities of the Gospel,
when, the next day, perhaps, they spend a thousand
dollars in a ball or party, to meet the demands of fash-
ion? And yet, dare we blind our eyes to such facts as
are daily staring us in the face ? And has the Church
no remedial power? She has. She has discipline: and
it should be well defined. She should speak out, in her
organic strength, against such evils ; and they who
would not be willing, in some good measure, to yield
them, should at least be made to take their right posi-
14*


322    THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

tion within her folds. "Ye cannot serve God and
Mammon." Let the Church enforce it more fully, dis-
tinctly, and determinedly upon their children. Until
this is done, we say, All Hail the Brotherhoods, as the
best thing we can have. It is but the big heart of
the Church, yearning and throbbing through the hearts
of her children. What the many will not accomplish,
the few will ; and we bid them God-speed, until the
whole Brotherhood, in its strength, shall be aroused
into a life-breathing activity.
But, to return to our story. The residence of Pat
O'Ryman was a dilapidated old building, which stood
in an alley, just in the rear , of Mrs. Fussy's princely
mansion, and had but two rooms, and one entrance.
There was an attic, but it was merely a receptacle for
old lumber and rubbish.
The front room is occupied as a "Bar-room," in.
which Pat O'Ryman deals out the liquid fire to his cus-
tomers; a set of low filthy Irishmen, who spend with
him, in drunken brawls, every penny they can rake and
scrape together. And when they are penniless, and
can succeed in getting Pat half drunk, he "thrusts
them for the sake o' the ould counthry."
Just before the door, inside, stands the necessary ap-
pendage to a groggery, a painted lattice-work screen,
which serves to save the passer-by from many an un-
seemly, unsightly carousal. Were you to enter that
wretched place, you would find a few rickety chairs, an
old bespittled stove, a sanded floor, covered with tobac-
co juice and relics of the quid; a few empty whiskey
barrels, scattered promiscuously about ; a small coun-
ter, at which the glass is served ; and, behind it, a row

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              323
or two of shelves, holding the labelled bottles, which
contain the fire-water.
Pat O'Ryman is, himself, a perfect specimen of an
Irish groggery-keeper; a pock-fretted face; a red nose,
that looks as though it were half roasted ; one eye a lit-
tle red and blood-shotten, the other slightly blackened;
shaggy hair; -a full florid face. The landlord stands
behind his "Bar,"-which means, we suppose, that it
"bars" all intruders from the delectable labelled bot-
tles,-in his red flannel shirt, the sleeves of which are
rolled up to the armpit, exhibiting the marks of indel-
ible ink wrought into the skin in the shape of an an-
clior and a sprig of shamrock. He is mixing glasses
for two or three Irishmen, who lazily hang on the coun-
ter in a state of anxious waiting, while half a dozen more
of the same kidney lounge about the room,-some on
the rickety chairs, some on the empty barrels, smoking
their pipes, sipping their toddy, and singing their Irish
bacchanalian songs. One fellow, having indulged a
little too freely in potations of the " crather," has slip-
ped from his barrel, and lies by it on the floor, a rather
forbidding specimen of humanity.
how long, 0 Lord, holy and true, shall humanity be
inflicted with such gateways to Hell!
In the back room, there is what must pass for a bed,
on which reclines the sick wife of Pat O'Ryman.
There also hangs from the wall a dingy looking-glass,
that has the appearance of having displayed the beau-
ties of the O'Ryman family for many generations.
There is also an old chest or two about the room, on the
top of which burns a lamp, which emits a dull, dingy,
smoky light.


324     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR

Pat O'Ryman was himself a Romanist, and felt that
all he needed was " extreme unction" at the last mo-
ment; but his wife had been brought up in the United
Church of England and Ireland, and notwithstanding
the threats of Pat, and the anathemas of Father Don-
neghan, had remained true to the Faith. When she
was taken sick, Pat insisted on sending for Father Don-
neghan, but she as strenuously refused to have his ser-
vices. And so matters stood, until Mr. Lovegood, miss-
ing her from the Communion, called one day to ascer-
tain the cause of her absence, and found her as we have
described.
Mr. Lovegood had never had an assistant; and noxx
he found his hands full of parochial duty, visiting the
sick, ministering to the needy and the afflicted, inso-
much that he was frequently on duty all night, at the
bedside of the sick or dying, in the lordly palace, or the
wretched hovel. About ten o'clock, on the night when
Master John Fussy saw him come out of the alley, the
faithful pastor had entered the groggery of Pat O'Ry-
man. As we have stated before, there was but one
entrance ; and he was obliged to pass through the
crowd of half drunken Irishmen, to enter the room
of the sick woman. And we must say, to. their credit,
that, as soon as they looked upon him, and learned the
nature of his mission, they became silent, gave him a
respectful bow, and opened a way for him to pass into
the back room. There he found the sick woman suffer-
ing great pain, bearing unmistakable marks of neglect,
worn out with the incessant fumes of whiskey and the
pipe from the tap-room, and the horrible oaths and im-
precations that ever and anon jarred upon her ear. We

V

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.             325
can scarcely picture to ourselves a more wretched and
pitiable condition, for one who needed quiet for the
body's sake, and the consolations of religion for the
preparation of the soul for its passage into the Spirit-
land.
How awful a type of the wretchedness of lost spirits
in that world of woe, where the sunlight of God's coun-
tenance cometh not ! Oaths, imprecations, blasphe-
mies, rendered all the night horrible, making a hell
upon earth.
0, what a comfort to the afflicted and dying woman,
was the presence of the man of God! Even the
impious blasphemer was silent before him; the besot-
ted, brutal bacchanalian ceased his horrid oaths; and,
for the first time during many weary nights, did that
den of darkness, filth, and wickedness, fail to resound
with its horrible and maddening orgies.
But quiet was destined not long to remain. There
had long been a feud brewing, between Pat O'lRyman
and Tim Limpkins, his brother-in-law, who kept a grog-
gery in a neighboring alley, about some bedding, a
frying-pan, a tea-kettle, and a few other articles, the
property of the mother of their respective wives, who
had recently immigrated to this country, and gone to
live with Tim Limpkins. This, it seems, had given Pat
offence, since, as he alleged, the mother had taken all
her property to Tim's; whereas, he contended, it ought
to have been divided equally between the two daugh-
ters. Many angry and insulting messages had passed
between them ; and, a few days before, they met in the
street, and would have come to blows, but were sepa-
rated by mutual friends.


32     TIE BLEMMERTONS; oR,

On the night mentioned, and a few moments after
Mr. Lovegood entered, Tim Limpkins, in a drunken
frolic, backed by two or three "ready boys," caine
round to Pat's, and attacked him in his " Bar-room."
A terrible fight ensued, in which nearly all took part.
Chairs, empty bottles, barrels, pokers, every available
article, flew about the room, making havoc of heads,
arms, legs, eyes, noses. In vain did one of the better
disposed shout aloud: "Pace, men! pace, men ! the
sick crather! the sick crather! the dying crather will
be kilt! . Be asey, be asey, the ministher ist in the
room. Bad luck to ye, bad luck to ye." The blows
were dealt the faster, thicker, and harder; skulls rat-
tled, decanters .were smashed, windows flew. Pat, at
last, seizing an empty beer bottle, struck his antagonist
a terrible blow on the head, which felled him, and
ended the fight.
Mr. Lovegood rushed into the room ; and oh, horrors!
what a sight! The room presented the spectacle of a
perfect wreck. Here lay a fellow groaning with a
broken arm ; there, another with both eyes knocked
out; another bitterly cried: "Och, my head ist split,
my head ist sphlit ; wide open, wide open. 0, Biddy,
my darlent, where ist ye ? where ist ye ?"
The unlucky Tim lay entirely insensible, apparently
dead, the blood streaming from his temple. By this
time, Tim's wife and mother-in-law had got wind of the
row; and the wives of several others of the wounded,
who all rushed into the room, and set up the most awful
wail that ever greeted the ear of mortal.
" O, my Tim, and ist ye gone !" piteously exclaimed
the wife; "gone, gone, my Tim. Yis, yis, my Tim ist.

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.            97
Ah! my Tim, he was a good boy ; yis, he was my Tim.
Oh, ye crathur, ye baste, ye vile varmint of desthruction.
Yis, ye did it. Ye know'd the man was dhrunk; and
ye ha' kilt him. Och, ye baste of a murdhurur. Ans
if I wa' a man. But oh, mine Tim, mine Tim! Yis,
there's a God above; yis, yis, oh, my Tim, my Tim!"
All this time, Mr. Lovegood stood by, feeling the
pulse of the wounded man.    The pulsations were
feeble; but he was not dead, life had not fled. He
sent for a physician ; meantime, bathing the wounded
man in cold water, spirits of ether, and camphor, stop.-
ped the flow of blood; and, in two hours, Tim had so
far recovered, that he could be removed in a cart to his
own home.
" Och, and may the Holy Mither bliss ye !" said
Biddy, as Mr. Lovegood took his departure. "Hiretic,
or not, as Father Donneghan sis ye be, ye be the blissed
of the Lord ! Mony's the time Biddy'll think on ye, for
the likes o' ye ist not seen ivery day. No, no; that's a
thruth !"
Horrible as was this episode in a clergyman's life, who
would not have preferred it to the authorship of the
vile and abominable slanders that had grown out of it?
Weeks rolled round; the sick woman grew daily
worse ; but Mr. Lovegood was faithfully found at her
bedside. And if John Fussy and "Jane "had watched
him a little more narrowly, they would have seen on
his arm, tr on the arm of Mr. or Mrs. Friendly, one of
whom often accompanied him every day or night that
he visited the groggery, a little basket, with a clean
white napkin drawn over it, filled with knick-knacks
and little comforts for the sick woman.

*


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  329

And when the humble, but solemn funeral train was
seen slowly wending down the alley, following the man
of God in his snow-white surplice, charity whispered,
even to "Jane's" heart, that, may be, after all, Mr.
Lovegood had been to see the sick woman.
Mrs. Fussy, as she gazed at the funeral train, bearing
to their last resting-place the remains of her sister in the
Church of God, whom she had never known nor com-
forted, hung her head, for she felt conscience-stricken.
The voice within cried against her, and held the lash.
Let us trust, that she retired from the back porch a
better woman. God only knows; with Him are the
secrets of all hearts.
Alu! CHARITY, thou art a jewel, growing brighter and
brighter on earth, only to have thy full brilliancy, when
thou shalt reflect the glorious light that beams from the
gems that irradiate the crown of Immanuel, in the blaze
of eternal day.
Ah! thou gossiping tongue, thou art filled with the
poison of asps ; and thy breath shall be the fuel of the
flame of the abodes of darkness, whose smoke, as the
smoke of a furnace, shall ascend forever and ever.

CHAPTER XXVIII.
MR. JONATHAN HEARTFUL AGAIN. A NEW STORY ON MR.
LOVEGOOD, AND THE TERRIBLE BURSTING OF A VOLCANO.
JONATHAN HIEARTFUL has returned from Congress,
having distinguished himself, and won golden honors,
in combating with the intellectual giants of his day.
And he has now quietly settled down again in the pur-
suit of his profession, and takes an active part in the
affairs of the Church.
He has visited the Blemmertons three or four times;
and it is reported, no one knows how, and no one cares,
that he is about to address Miss Julia Jasper. And we
will say for Miss Julia, that, in proper hands, she would
have made an excellent wife. Her character, truly, was
very defective, from the effects of the false training
through which she had passed; but there was in it
much of latent good, that needed only a helping hand
for its development. She was naturally of a frank
and open disposition, warped, indeed, by a supercilious
and selfish spirit; but, she had few concealments, and
appeared for little more than she was really worth.
Therefore, her's would have been a hopeful case, could
she have been placed beyond the reach of the influences
which had ever been thrown around her at home. She
had been reared in a school of unreality, surrounded
with mists, through which she gazed at the real world,
catching but faint glimpses of it, as the mariner nearing

328    THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,


330      TIlE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

the coast pierces with his keen eye through the thick
fog, and gains an occasional glimpse of land.
For aught that we know, Mr. Ileartful had discrimi-
nation enough to form a correct estimate of Miss Julia's
character; and, perhaps, had she been free from such
powerful coadjutors as her mother, Miss Deliah Air-
myth, Mrs. Fussy, and a few others, the report at some
time or another might have been verified. But, as the
case stood, it was hopeless. Agnes's time had nearly
expired at Mrs. Densmore's, and Mr. Lovegood had
been twice to see her within the last six months. This
gives occasion to no small amount of impatience, and
numberless surmises. Mrs. Nochurch and the Blem-
mertons are found frequently together, speculating on
the phenomenon.   They are baffled. What - can it
mean? Can Mr. Lovegood think of marrying Agnes
himself? It must be so. This is all the ladies can
make of it ; and yet how preposterous! A man of
forty, and he a clergyman, to think of marrying a girl
not quite eighteen ! And she even dependent upon
him for her education ! Yea, more, a barefooted beg-
gar urchin, who, four years ago, had been prowling
about the streets, ragged, dirty, bareheaded, picking up
old rags, and begging pennies ! o ! the thing was un-
bearable ! Really, if it came to pass, they would give
Mr. Lovegood up, and go te Dr. Riproarer's Church.
The rumor of the marriage of Mr. Lovegood and
Deliah Airmyth had for some time partially died away ;
nor had the groggery story been heard of, since the
funeral of Mrs. O'Ryman. That seemed to give each
a quietus.
Mr. Benjamin Slocum Sapientium is yet a Presbyte-

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.            331
rian, in no way changed from what he always was.
His rapid, triumphant, and remarkable conversion has
effected nothing, except to give him a little more brass.
When Mr. Lovegood accosted him, after uniting with
the Presbyterians, he told him, that Dr. Skyrocket's
book had converted him; and, inasmuch as it was
placed in his hands by Dr. Riproarer, he felt in honor
bound to join the Presbyterians. Mr. Lovegood thought
Ben's principles of honor, after all that had occurred,
rather shallow, not worth discussing; so, he permitted
him to pass, with the simple remark, that he hoped he
was a sincere penitent, and, while repenting, would not
forget his tergiversating, and the awful sin of schism he
had committed, in tearing himself away from the body
of Christ.
Upon the whole, matters stood in a passable state of
equilibrium with all the parties whom we have intro-
duced to the reader. Aunt Sally Milk-and-water, who
of late had grown somewhat more relentful and charit-
able towards the good Rector, thought it well that it
was so; for she said they had handled Mr. Lovegood
pretty roughly. He had been to see her the day be-
fore, and seemed to know nothing of the stories that had
been reported about him. Only he told her he had re-
ceived a "hinonymous" letter about going to the the-
atre. She did not know what a "hinonymous" letter
was, but she was sure it was something dreadful.
"And, la me ! what do you think he said? That he
was never in a theatre in his life ; and laughed out-
right. I reckon it's more than many of us can say.
And, what's more, I went right to Pat O'iRyman's my-
self; and asked him if Mr. Lovegood rak any thing


DOTTINGS BY TILE WAYSIDE,    333

at his house; and what do you think he said? 'Och,
bliss his riverince's heart, he dthrunk not so much as a
glass o' cowld wather ; an' if third's any sich sthories out,
it's Pat O'Ryman's the man as what'll say it's a lie ;
an' he's the boy what knows it's all sprung from a
'oman, who, as Father Donnaghan sis, hasn't followed
the tixt about kaping at home!'"
Although a partial quiet reigned over affairs in  ,
there were the smouldering remains of these old stories
and gossipings, which were occasionally fanned by some
of the party, to keep them alive. And as in a fire long
pent up, there often is needed but a gentle breeze to
cause it to burst out with fury, carrying destruction be-
fore it; so, in these elements of confusioni, jealousy,
evil-speaking, and evil-surmising, there was needed but
a breath, a whisper, to cause them to rage with renewed
power of destruction.
When Mrs. Blemmerton had made the sage discov-
ery, that Mr. Lovegood visited Mrs. Densmore's school
for the purpose of addressing his "daughter," (as he
called her; but his " dependent," as the Blemmertons
termed her,) she was fairly at her wit's end, and cast
about for new resources. The case had a desperate
look. Something must be done, to bring matters to a
crisis. Mr. Lovegood had continued his pastoral visits
to the Elemmertons, with the hope of benefiting them
spiritually, and because it was his duty. These visits
were, of course, the occasion of keeping alive the im-
pression with some, that the old story was true. It was,
therefore, no difficult matter, to cause it to become
again the prominent topic of conversation.
Mr. Slopill had, for a long time, been very uneasy

about these reports; for he brooked not the thought of
losing the prospective dollars and cents. lie had fre-
quently upbraided Miss Dele, with giving Mr. Love-
good more attention than was his due, all things con-
sidered. About this time, meeting her one evening at
Mrs. Nochurch's, he took upon him to broach the sore
subject again. Miss Dele gave him to understand, that,
for aught she knew, Mr. Lovegood had serious inten-
tions towards her.
Now, heretofore, Miss Dele had always strenuously
denied all these reports to Mr. Slopill. Alas! what
now remained to him! He now taxed her with encour-
aging Mr. Lovegood, with the presentation of the ser-
mon-holder, the rosebud, and the piece of poetry; all
of which he had picked up from the current gossip.
Not a word of all did she deny ; but she rather inti-
mated that she was a free woman, and that, if Mr. Love-
good addressed her, she should claim the prerogative of
doing as she pleased. Think of this, ye sympathetic
ones, and weep with Mr. Slopill. And had it come to
that? She would give him no satisfaction. Mr. Slo-
pill walked home faster that evening than he ever
walked before, except on the memorable occasion here-
tofore related.
Boiling over with rage, the next morning he hurried
to Mr. Lovegood's study. On the way, he met Mrs.
Fussy,.with whom he paused a moment for a little chat ;
suppressing, -as much as possible, the fiery indignation
which burned in his bosom towards the good pastor.
"Good morning, Mr. Slopill."   " Good morning,
Madam. Hope I see you well, Madam ?" " Quite
well, Sir; but not so comfortable. Think they haven't

332

THE BLE MI EI TONS; OR,

r


334   . THE BLEMMERTONS; OR?

got out another story about Mr. Lovegood ?" "What
is that, Madam ?" "Why, that he's going to marry
that girl, Agnes Wallace, that he took up off the street,
and sent to Mrs. Densmore's school." "I wish him
good luck, Madam," said Mr. Slopill, whose counte-
nance brightened up. -" Ah, yes, Mr. Slopill ; but for
a olergyman to have two strings to his bow, is to me
perfectly amazing !" By this time Mr. Slopill could
scarcely stand on his feet. That struck a tender spring.
"Good morning, Madam. I'm in a hurry."
And on he went, to the Rector's study. Mr. Love-
good was at his desk, writing a sermon for the next
Sunday, on the parable of Dives and Lazarus. Mr.
Slopill was dreadfully agitated ; the pastor perfectly
calm and collected; not one care, sorrow, nor anxiety
ruffled his benign countenance. "I am very happy to
see you, Mr. Slopill. This is, I believe, the first time
you have done me the honor to call." "And it's the
last," replied Mr. Slopill, very snappishly. " 0, I hope
not, Sir," said Mr. Lovegood, in a good-humored tone.
" hope nothing of an unpleasant nature has occurred ."
"There has, Sir," exclaimed Mr. Slopill, raising his
voice several notes higher. "I have to accuse you, Sir,
of endeavoring to supplant me in the affections of Miss
Deliah Airmyth Blemmerton !"   "Never, Sir!" ex-
claimed Mr. Lovegood, dropping his pen, and, for the
first time, gaining as it were a glimpse of the position in
which affairs stood. "Never, Sir. Such a thought, or
wish, has never crossed my breast; nor is there the
slightest foundation for such a surmise."
Mr. Slopill was amazed. He stood as dumb and
mute as a statue, before the serene countenance that

DOTTING BY T HE WAYSIDE.          335
beamed upon him. "And have you, Sir, not addressed
Miss Blemmerton ?"  "I have answered you, Sir."
" have you not given her to understand that you would
do so ?"  " I have answered you, Sir."  " Did not Miss
Blemmerton present you with a sermon-holder, Sir ?"
"I have answered you, Sir."
"Are you not aware that this story has been in cir-
culation a long time? And what if the young lady
in question confirm it, Sir ?" " That, Sir, she will
scarcely be able to do; for, not so much as a word has
ever passed between us on such a subject. As to the
gossip that may have floated about with regard to my-
self, I consider it too insignificant to be worthy of
notice. But, you will please bear in mind, Mr. Slopill,
that I have answered you once for all. This whole
affair is to me a profound enigma; nor shall I submit
to any more categorical exercises about what passes be-
tween me and my parishioners. It is a humiliation, to
which I do not feel called upon to condescend. And,
Sir, had I been disposed to address Miss Blemmerton,
I should have had no conception of your standing in
the way; for I heard her declare, in open company,
that no betrothment existed between you. So, under
any circumstances, your charges would signally have
failed. I have nothing more to do with the question,
Sir."
Worse and worse. Poor Mr. Slopill ! Here was a
disclosure, for which he was totally unprepared. He
was maddened. The whole truth flashed upon him like
an electric spark.
Whereunto would the pathway on which he had en-
tered lead him? Would it conduct to the delectable


336

!

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

mountains of matrimony and gold; or the dark valley
of the Celebate, where no gold grows ? Could it be
so ? Mr. Slopill hurried to his bacon and lard estab-
lishment; and, after combing his whiskers, despatched
a tart note to Miss Deliah Airmyth, about which we
shall hear more hereafter. For the present, we invoke
for him rest through the day, and quiet slumbers and
pleasant dreams at night.

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.            33'
CHAPTER XXIX.
A GLANCE AT MR. LOVEGOOD S SERMON ON DIVES AND
LAZARUS. ONE OF ITS RESULTS. A TICKLISH CASE IN
THE NOCHURCIH FAMILY. REV. MR. HARDWORKER AND
HIS INIMITABLE PSALMODY. CHURCH MUSIC. SOME"AC-
COUNT OF THE DEBT OF GRATITUDE DUE BY THE CHURCH
TO MR. HARDWORKER, FOR ITS IMPROVEMENT.
AFTER Mr. Slopill left Mr. Lovegood, the Rector con-
tinned and brought to a conclusion his sermon on Dives
and Lazarus, and on the following Sunday morning he
preached it. We give merely a brief extract from it
for the reader's benefit.
"This rich man," said he, "was clothed in purple
and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. Was
he unlike the common run of worldly rich men; rich
men who take the world for their portion., and in it
alone find theig reward?  Cast your eyes over this
great city; stand mute before the gorgeous' splendor of
its magnificence and wealth. Behold its prodigality
and luxuriousness, and the thousands lavished by the
hand of wealth upon the lusts of a pampered body,
soon to rot in the tomb. Behold the thousands of poor,
struggling on, scarcely breathing, crying aloud for the
charities of life, spurned from the doors of the rich;
aye, look upon the thousands of Diveses and Lazaruses
all over this voluptuous city; and methinks you will
have no occasion to conclude, that this rich man's case
15

'I


338

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

is. so unlike the ways of the world and the age in which
we live.
'I s, alas! is a character familiar to us. That he
was rich, may not be charged as an offence, unless his
riches were acquired fraudulently or dishonestly. That
he was clothed in purple and fine linen, was perchance
only in keeping with his station in life. All men are
equal in God's sight; souls are measured by the Eter-
nal; and yet, for the well-being of society, as a means
of probation, and the government of mankind and the
stability of governments, families, and communities,
Providence has allotted various stations and relative
positions among men, as of the governor and the gov-
erned, the parent and the child, the possessor of wealth
and the diligent laborer: all, in some way, dependent
upon each other; each laboring in his place and sphere
for the good of the whole ; and each accountable for-
the faithful discharge of his stewardship. We see not,
therefore, that this rich man sinned, by clothing him-
self in keeping with his position in life.
" Doubtless, we gather from the whole, he was a vo-
luptuary; in that his sin. consisted. And he.is a type
of numbers in almost every Christian community. He
is not represented as one given to fraud or rapine ; he
was not a homicide, nor guilty of any heinous crime as
a violator of the decalogue. At least, he is not charged
with it. Banish, then, from your minds the thought,
that there was something peculiarly black in this man's
character, differing from and altogether above the or-
dinary course of worldliness. Nay, he may have been
quite a good man as the world counts goodness. Upon
the whole, he may have been a clever citizen, 'a good

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.             339
fellow,' as the world says. 'He harmed nobody.' And
he -may have been liked, if not for his social qualities,
at least for his sumptuous entertainments, and the
favors that now and then fell from his hands upon the
few who paid him court.
"'Just as we see it now, such and such are called
clever men; they entertain luxuriously; live in fine
style ; are not niggardly in the world's service ; are
honest, and, upon the whole, so far as the world sees,
are moral; therefore, they are accounted good citizens,
and are lamented when they die. But, turn to the ac-
count of the world to come; turn to the page that re-
veals the future; and all is a blank: there is no record
there revealing the cross; none disclosing the words of
love and deeds of mercy that made angels shout; char-
ity wept not over their memory when they were gone,
nor strewed she flowers over their grave.*
"Now, just such a man, we contend, may have been
this Dives; a jolly companion, a high liver, fond of
society, dwelling in splendor, a giver of handsome en-
tertainments, lavishing his money freely on his lusts
and pleasures, liked by his friends, admired for his dis-
play in the world. And notwithstanding this is the
ugliest picture the parable will permit us to draw of
him; when he dies, we find him in that place where
the worm dieth not. Aye, he had frittered away his
life in vanities: while he could clothe his own body
splendidly, and pamper his appetite, he had no bowels
of compassion, no eye to see suffering humanity. A
starving mendicant could lie at his gate ; and his
a "strew flowers o'er my grave." TACITUs.

I


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.      34

cry for a morsel of bread be heard with indiffer-
ence.
"I Methinks, and I tremble to utter the thought, be-
cause of its awful truthfulness, that the self-indulgences
of mankind in fashionable life, and what they are
pleased to term their innocent allowances in pleasure
and luxurious living, that minister to pure worldliness,
and turn their hearts from the wants of the great human
family, and lock them in the embraces of coldness, un-
kindness, pomp, and uncharitableness, will people the
abode of Dives with inmates, and fill it with eternal
laments.
" Before us, we have the case of a man living simply
for SELF. His riches became a burning curse ; because,
while he was rich unto himself, he was poor unto God
and humanity. He was a man of the world, and took
the world for his portion; and in that he received his
reward.
"IHow does he differ from all those who live by the
same rule, and seek the same reward? How does he
differ from all those who 'seek their own, and not the
things that are Jesus Christ's?'
"But this rich man died! yea, he died! His wealth
could not purchase for himii a release from the common
lot of man. Nay, he must die; the purple must yield
to the shroud, and that pampered body be food for
worms ! And now, in the other world, lie enters on
the reward that he sought throughout his life. Sin is
permitted to go on ; and, arousing from his pleasing
dream of earth, he must reap the harvest that he must
garner forever. We behold his body consigned to the
tomb, surrounded with the trappings of wealth ; his soul

has winged its way to that society which it has been
trained to enjoy. Let us draw a curtain over the rest."
The aforesaid sermon was the occasion of bringing'
matters to a crisis, in some quarters. It was supposed
to bear down heavily in more directions than one ; at
all events, it was appropriated here and there person-
ally, if we are to judge by the confusion displayed du-
ring its delivery. First, Mrs. Nochurch arose, and,
slamming her pew door lustily after her, hurried out of
church; in a few moments, she was followed by Mrs.
Fussy and Mrs. Fastidious, each of whom manifested no
small amount of indignation as they passed out of the
house of God.
The Elemmertons had the good or ill luck,-we leave
the reader to judge which,-to be absent. They had
gone into mourning for the cousin of Ben Slocum, the
tall saint, whom Mr. Simon Cobblecanting canonized.
And as it was unfashionable, at that day, for those who
were enjoying "the luxury of woe" to go to church,
while the first fit of it, the "grand deuil," was on hand,
their pew was empty. And of course, not being pres-
ent, they did not take any part of the sermon to them-
selves; on the principle, that on such subjects absent
company is always excepted,-(when the period of the
"petit deuil" arrived, they appeared again in church.)
Indeed, Mrs. Blemmerton and Miss Deliah Airmyth
would hardly have been able, from fatigue theclay be-
fore, to attend church on this occasion, had not the other
consideration prohibited; for they had quite worn them-
selves out, before the counters of the mourning depart-
ments of many of the large and fashionable stores; in
which (to them) laudable work, if they did not commit

340        T11E BBL I  y -1ERT0NS; 0R,


342

TIE BLEMMERToNS; OI

numberless sins themselves, they left numberless clerks
sinners, who most likely were ashamed to show their
faces in church on the Lord's day.
Shortly after the dismissal of the congregation, it be-
gan to rain in torrents, and continued all the afternoon
and night, to such a degree as to require the omission of
the second service. A great many were wicked enough
to say, that it rained floods of joy, that St.  's was
free at last of some of its incumbrances and busybodies.
We commend not the saying, but record it merely as in
duty bound; nor as a faithful chronicler can we with-
hold the remark, that numbers of the congregation re-
joiced.
It was unmistakably so; the ladies had deserted the
church, never again to unite in its saintly worship, its
scriptural and primitive Liturgy,-the Church of their
baptism, which is linked with all the past of the Church
of God throughout all ages. They had never fully
realized what it was, to have the Kingdom of God come
upon them ; what it was, all their life to have lived un-
der that divine polity, which, through ages, has come
down to us in one unbroken line; what it was, to have
dwelt within the folds of the one Catholic and Apos-
tolic Church, surrounded with all the trophies of the
Gospel, and the glories of that world of light in which
dwell Prophets, Priests, Kings, Apostles, Martyrs, and
Confessors, Cherubim and Seraphim, a mighty host, " a
cloud of witnesses" surrounding us, and holding fellow-
ship with us; what it was, to have been akin to God-
Man, in that sweet bond of union, by which the past
and the future of Christ's Mystical Body are brought,
as it were, into the present, in one grand central point

F-

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

34:3

of love ; love flowing out from Christ, and gathering
into one fellowship angels and saints forever !
And they are gone! The tears of sorrow follow
them, as they must, whenever the relentless hand of
Schism tears the seamless robe of Christ. They soon
swelled the list of reprisals for Dr. Riproarer; the jol-
lification is renewed on earth, while the Angels veil
their faces and weep.* Drop your tears upon the earth,
ye " white-winged" messengers of love; they will wash
out none of its guilt; only the tears and blood of Im-
manuel will do that: but they may glitter about our
pathway, and warn us of danger.
In theological tendencies, in the great school of In-
differentism, we doubt not that these ladies found more
sympathy in their new connection; and here we leave
them  with the remark, that Mr. Fussy and Mr. Fastid-
ions followed their wives, who, in their estimation, were
perfect exemplars of every excellence.
Not so, however, with Mr. Nochurch. His, wife pos-
sessed not sufficient influence over him to mouldi hn to
her liking. He had a real attachment to the Church,
,although, to all intents and purposes, a worldly man;
and, though not standing on high ground, even theoret-
ically as a thoroughly trained Churchman, he aimed to
be consistent, and protested to his wife, that lie discov-
ered nothing in Mr. Lovegood's sermon calculated to
raise afwrore; nothing that he deemed justly offensive ;
nothing that did not naturally flow out of the subject, or
that was not strictly true and highly appropriate; and
* The sin of Schism, so sharply rebuked by the Apostle, is painfully
disregarded by many.


11

THE BLE MMERToNS; ORa

he was ready to venture the assertion, that Mr. Love-
good had no human being in particular in his mind,
when he preached that sermon.   Moreover, Mr. No-
church had been a member of the choir for a number
of years ; he had a fine bass voice, and delighted in
church music ; and this, if no higher consideration
could have moved him, would have kept him   at his
post. His wife gave up, in despair. Every Sunday
found her at Dr. Riproarer's meeting-house, and her his-
band at his post in St. -'s church.
And here we must briefly review Mr. Nochurch's
early history. His parents were Presbyterians. They
had reared six sons, and of course it was their highest
ambition to train them in their own faith. They trusted,
too, to see one of them a minister of their persuasion ;
accordingly, as they severally arrived at the proper
age, they were sent (i. e. the five elder) to a strict
Presbyterian College. But, by some strange, unac-
countable Providence to them, they one by one caine
home from the Calvinistic School, thorough Church-
men ; and he on whom they had set their hearts as. a
Minister, took, indeed, that holy function, but preferred
the reality, which in due time he received in the Episco-
pal laying on of hands, and commission to preach the
glad tidings of salvation, and administer the Sacraments.
Our Mr. Nochurch was the youngest of the six ; and
when the time arrived for him to leave the paternal
roof, for the completion of his education, the following
conversation passed between the parents
"It is time, Mr. Nochurch," said the mother, " for
William to be sent to college. He is now fifteen, the
age at which his brothers were sent. And y a know I

V

DOTTING B Y THE WAYSIDE.

345

am not in favor of postponing so important a matter.
What do you say? Shall he be got ready ?"   "I sup-
pose so, my dear," said the father. "But my sons
have all thus far deserted my Church" and faith. It
appears to be a hard case; but I know they all are
thoroughly honest; this is the only consolation I have.
They have become Episcopalians,.on principle ; but, in
so doing, they condemned their parents. It is hard to
be borne ; but I suppose it must be so. And yet, when
I reflect on it, I almost tremble to send William away,
lest he should be biased too."
"Well," said the mother, "it is indeed a hard case.
But I have thought of a plan. We have sent all oum
sons to a Presbyterian College; and, in spite of every
effort, they have turned out Episcopalians. Suppose
now we reverse it, and send William to an Episcopal
College; it may be that he will come out a Presbyte-
rian." The husband smiled, and yet he could not sup-
press a sigh. "Be it as you say, my dear. But I fear
the prospect is slender."
Master William Nochurch was accordingly sent to a
Church College, and came out perhaps a little nearer
Presbyterianism than some of his brothers, but not
quite the genuine thing.* He learned to love, if not to
understand the Church; and this was sufficient to save
him from the influence of his wife, and the little party
vith whom she was identified. So true is it, that good
geed, sown even with a sparing hand, will take root,
spring up, and bear fruit.
; We write from life; the like has occurred. We do not suppose
that Presbyterian Colleges are good nurseries for the Church.
154

344

e, di
s
I
('
!}
tI
3s{
f.
3
l
r


346

THE BLEMMERToNS; OR,

The affair of the Missionary, too, had had a marked
influence upon Mr. Nochurch. From the day that he
had followed up the Missionary, and given him twenty.
five dollars, he felt as though somehow it had begun a
new era in his life. lie felt as though he would like to
be a better man. It was but the feeble whisperings of
conscience, or as an angel's voice speaking in his heart,
"This is the way, walk ye in it ;" for so it is, that a
good deed does reflect itself back inwardly upon our
spiritual being.
We are far from supposing, that good actions neces-
sarily make him good who pcrformis them; but we
know, that they set the soul to thinking, and often con-
vince the man that he is capable of doing good. And
one good deed leads to another ; goodness begets good-
ness, just as evil begets evil.
" To set the outward actions right, though with an
honest intention, and not so to regard the inward disor-
ders of the heart, from which certain actions flow, is
but to be putting the index of a clock right, while the
clock itself is out of order. "
We have asserted nothing in opposition to this apho-
risn, nor shall we do so ; still, we insist upon it, that
even when the inside of the clock is all right, you can-
not have correct time without putting the index right.
And here, for the present, we must leave Mr. No-
church, and ask the reader to bear in mind,, that,
according to current gossip, Mr. Lovegood had been
twice, within the past six months, on a visit to Mrs.
Densmore's school. This was true. But he had not
gone for that special purpose on both occasions; he
merely called to see Agnes, on his way to visit a brother

V
r:
t
t
t
l-

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

31

clergyman, who resided some miles from her school.
This clergyman, the Rev. Mr. Hardworker, was the
Rector of a remote secluded country parish, in a moun-
tainous district. Mr. Lovegood had been acquainted
with him in his youth. Many years had intervened
but during the past winter they met, and it was agreed
that Mr. Lovegood should pay him a visit in the sum-
mer.
Accordingly, taking advantage of an opportunity
offered by the kindness of a brother, who proffered to
fill his place ii St.  's for a few weeks, Mr. Love-
good, on a bright day in midsummer, took leave of
heat, dust, bricks, and smoke, on a visit to his friend.
He spent but one Sunday with Mr. Hardworker, and
of course preached, his friend reading prayers. Mr.
Iardworker was an excellent parish priest of the old
school, rather of the "high and dry" order, but true to
his flock, and a pattern of humble-mindedness. Mr.
Lovegood soon discovered that his friend was a man of
the most marked eccentricities. Being remote from
other clergymen, and secluded from their intercourse
and example, and the conflict of mind which serves al-
ways to keep one posted up, and save him from the
slavery of habits of carelessness and negligence. in the
performance of divine service, his peculiarities and ec-
centricities had become a second nature to him; and
now, having arrived at that period of life which consti-
tuted him a father in his parish, he seemed privileged
to say and do things in his own way.
Having gone through the service, with as few blun-
ders as might be expected, lie announced his psalm;
and having read it line by line, in a long nasal drawl,

t
r
S


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

he slowly raised his eyes, at the same time lifting his
glasses rather above the visual organs, a custom which
had become stereotyped with him, and he addressed
his congregation somewhat thus: "Brethren, if any one
here present is a good hand at psalmody, I shall be
obliged to him if he will raise the tune; for I have a
cold, and am in rather a bad plight for singing."
There is a pause, and a wonderful fluttering about the
church, an intolerable amount of sneezing, tickling of
throats, and coughing. All have colds to-day; the in-
fluenza is contagious; no one starts the music.
" Well," continued good Mr. Ilardworker, "if there
is no one else to do it, I suppose I must." And with
that he sounded a sort of key-note, something between
a hiccough and a regular cough, and set out like a man
in earnest. What the tune was, tradition does not in-
form us; it remains yet a profound mystery. It went
up and down, high and low, sharp and flat, a sort of
zig-zag, see-saw,---but mostly flat,--yes, decidedly so.
A few of the congregation joined in; each, however,
on his or her own account, without regard to tune or
time. And the first stanza was finished, all pretty well
except the last line, which got down so low as to be
past endurance.
Meantime, in the oscillations of his body and head,
occasioned by the effort of singing, Mr. Ilardworker's
glasses have fallen, from their position on his forehead,
upon the bridge of his nose, and thence have gradually
worked their way down, until they hang on the very
end of it, ready to fall on the floor. There is a pause
for respiration. Mr. Ilardworker essays to raise his eyes
from the Prayer-book. as if to speak; and away go the

glasses upon the floor! " Ah !" exclaimed he, stooping
to pick them up, "that was pretty well done !" The
glasses, or the music ?  "But raise a leetle if you please
on the last two words of the last line. It sounded rather
too low, to Inc."
What Mr. Lovegood's emotions were, we leave to the
imaginative reader to decide. The congregation seemed
in no way disconcerted, which, Mr. Lovegood thought,
and so do we, argued favorably for them. Perhaps
they were accustomed to such scenes, and therefore had
learned to regard them as part and parcel of the natural
order of'events.
Nothing, however, is without profit, even to the most
proficient, when viewed in the proper light. And we
shall see that even this event, trivial as it was, was
turned to account by Mr. Lovegood. At the period of
which we write, church music, even in the city of- ,
was not so perfectly understood and appreciated as it is
at the present day. Chanting was then but little used,
and note-books were rare. Reflecting on this incident,
Mr. Lovegood came to the wise conclusion, that the
singing in his own church needed improvement. Act-
ing upon the hint, he returned home fully purposed to
revolutionize his choir, and enter upon a grand series
of improvements. And perhaps the church in-,
and throughout the country, will never know the full
amount of its indebtedness to Mr. lardworker, and his
tune that was a "leetle too low, on the last two words of
the last line!"
The choir of St.    's was reorganized, new music
books obtained, and sundry additional aids called into
service.

"

0949

348

THE BLEMISMEHTONS, OR,

t '1
I
f ,
i
Y
i
.   +
1  i
'{.


350     THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

Nothing leads to perfection sooner than practice; in
the art of singing, this has been verified from time im1-
memorial. Every Friday evening, the newly-organized
choir met in the.church, for practice and improvement.
From this the Rector expected the most happy results;
a spirit of inquiry was excited, the feelings of the young
persons of the parish were enlisted, and Mr. Lovegood
rejoiced in the prospect of accomplishing an important
work. But as winter approached, it was suggested by
some one, that it would be much more comfortable to
meet at private houses for practice. Mr. Lovegood,
though opposed to this arrangement, suffered himself
to be overruled. Professor Singman, the leader of the
choir, was decidedly in favor of it, and he was very
popular with members of the choir. -le was just from
the land of song, and full of music. Unfortunately, he
was a Congregationalist, (but he was the best they could
get,) and had often manifested a decided preference for
the music in vogue amongst his sect. This predilection
he had never been able to indulge in the Church; he
was therefore too happy, at the prospect of getting the
choir a little free from the control of the Rector, that
he might occasionally exercise his penchant for some of
his favorite tunes.
The first of these meetings for rehearsal, was held at
the house of Mr. Allright. Mr. Allright was a good
Churchman, which implies that we consider him a very
good man; but he had a large circle of Presbyterian
and Methodist friends, and these he saw no harm in in-
viting to his house on this occasion, to hear the music,
and take part in the exercises of the evening.
Mr. Allright did not think this exactly the thing;

DOTTINGS B3Y TnE WAYSIDE.            351
but what else could he do ? It was his house; and they
were friends whom he was unwilling to offend. Take
it all in all, it appeared to be the best thing that he could
do. Still he was not exactly satisfied with himself, nor
was he surprised to discover that Mr. Lovegood was not
pleased at finding so large a company, not actual mem-
bers of the choir. He thought it would tend to distract
their attention, prove a hindrance, and in the end oc-
casion evil.
Notwithstanding, the first meeting passed off very
pleasantly, with a single exception. All were seated
around a long table ;. the music books, containing those
mysterious ciphers almost as unmanageable as Greek or
Hebrew lying open before them ; and Professor Sing-
man standing erect at the head of the table, waving his
hand, beating time, doing the flourishes, with eyes
closed, waving from side to side and to and fro, as
though a storm alternately beat upon him from the four
great points of the compass.. It was really a rare sight.
But, alas ! for the exception, mutatis mutandis, so the
world goes. It's not all gold that glitters ; nor may we
always expect to have sunshine. A church anthem was
begun; up jumped Miss Presbyterian, a blue-stocking
of the real grit, and, throwing back her head, with an
uncomfortable amount (to tender nerves) of surprise
and indignation flashing from her eyes, walked hasti-
ly out of the room, seeming to say in her every motion,
"I did not know I was invited here to listen to any
thing from that Book "
Time rolled on, and the choir meetings increased in
numbers. The thing was decidedly popular. It took
charmingly. It made such a capital frolic. The young


852      TEl BILE M c+RToNs o1R,

gentlemen brought candies, almonds, raisins, and other
delectables ; and the young ladies, of course, assisted in
consuming them.
So soon as the ladies were seated around the long ta-
ble, the books opened, Professor Singman at his post,
and all in readiness,-slap, slap, here and there, first a
paper of candy, then one of almonds or raisins would
drop upon the table. And then a merry laugh, or a
few bright smiles. These must be discussed, kiss-verses
and all. It was the life of singing. Candy cleared
the throat, and tuned the organs of sound, while the
raisins and almonds, we suppose, strengthened the lungs,
and the pretty kiss-verses banished bashfulness and en-
ni!
And so the evening passed ; a sprinkle of music, a
shower of tete-a-tete, and the raisins, almonds, and
candy !
Ah ! Mr. Hardworker, what have you done Are
you not answerable for getting your brother into such a
dilemma ?
In spite of Mr. Lovegood, Professor Singman would,
when he could get an opportunity, in which he was
sorely baffled by the candy, etc., introduce a touch
of his Congregationalist tunes,-the farther from the
Church's anthems the better for him! Congregational
chants were much simpler and more readily learned.
When he got them to be masters of the chanting art,
they could then undertake, with more ease and profi-
ciency, the chants of the Church. They were, in short,
to be drilled through Congregationalism.
Mr. Lovegood thought, and so do we, that the Church
was safest in doing her own drilling. She needs no

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.   353

schoolmaster in the shape of Congregationalism, nor
any other sm, to teach her any thing. A war of words
was the inevitable consequence. Mr. Lovegood put his
veto, as was his bounden duty, on all the proceedings;
and discovering that a mistake had been made, profit-
ing by experience, he set to work to repair it, with all
haste.
The new choir was dissolved, and another organized.
Professor Singman became highly offended, and de-
clared, that he would have nothing more to do with it.
A number of the young ladies and gentlemen dropped
off, and united with the Professor's party. Mr. Love-
good of course was soundly abused; it was a piece of
priestcraft and popery ; a high-handed measure.  Mr.
Allright, Mr. Nochurch, and all the more substantial of
the old choir. sustained Mr. Lovegod; and he lived
through the tornado raised by the professor.
But enough h 'cd been done, to awaken a spirit of in-
quiry and improvement. The new organization em-
braced substantial men and women; Church music be-
came the order of the day in --; the work spread
abroad ; new note-books sprung into existence ; and the
Church was edified.
Let no man despise the day of small things, nor
neglect the most trivial incident in life. Accidents
have blessed the world with many of the grandest dis-
coveries made by the mind of man. And, for aught
that we know, the falling of Mr. Hardworker's specta-
cles had something to do with the rapid growth of mu-
sical talents and attainments in our country!


354     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

CHAPTER XXX.
A PREDICAMENT. MR. SLOPILL WITH SAWDUST IN HIS
EYES. GOSSIPING. MR. LOVEGOOD MARRIED. A TER-
RIBLE SURPRISE. SMELLING BOTTLES, ETC.
MR. SLOPILL, as we have related, after leaving Mr.
Lovegood, hurried to his bacon establishment, and
despatched a note to Miss Deliah Airmyth. Affairs
certainly looked squally, and needed an explanation.
Mr. Slopill was not the man to be trifled with. Miss
Dele had plainly given him to understand, that Mr.
Lovegood had addressed her ; and he denied it in toto.
The pastor must be confounded, or the lady must make
suitable explanations. It was certainly an unpleasant
affair. On the one hand stood the lady, on the other
the Rector; backing the whole stood the prospective
dollars and cents. Mr. Slopill had been brought into
direct conflict with a clergyman, had made a ridiculous
dolt of himself, and had been obliged, for the time
being, to retire from the field, totally discomfited.
These evils were overpowering to a gentleman of
delicate sensibilities ; and if Mr. lopill's whiskers
were not duly brushed, and his head oiled and combed,
during the hours of suspense, surely the most fastidious
will find in their breasts a generous excuse for him.
And was not Miss Deliah in a predicament? Mr.
Lovegood had been charged with evil intentions,
bearded as it were, in his own sanctum, told that he

DOTTTNs S11Y TIE WAYSJDR.'          355
had played an ungentlemanly part in addressing the
lady, and all upon her own authority. He had also
informed Mr. Slopill, that he had Miss Delial's word
and solemn asseveration, that no betrothment existed
between them; of all of which she was but too con-
scious. Was ever young lady in so sad a plight ? O
ye knights and ladies of romance, can ye not come to
the rescue of Miss Deliah Airmyth Blemmerton? Ye
who have made so ,many hair-breadth escapes in the
romance of real life, can ye not succor a poor defence-
less, hapless, and helpless young lady, who has drawn
about her so many nets of destruction that she cannot
escape ? Pity, pity, ye sighing swains! Comfort
comfort, ye acute dames, and persevering maidens, who
understand the art of solving such difficult ques-
tions!
What is Miss Dele to do ?-Lose a certain prospect,
let go a sure anchor, and float out on an uncertain tide?
Oh, terrible dilemma! Miss IDele is now far gone out
of her teens; prospects are growing more and more
slender; even two hundred thousand seems to be an
insufficient bait. Leave it to the ladies! Miss Dele
was obliged to make an expos to her mother, humili-
ating as it was. A counsellor she must have: " In the
multitude of counsellors there is safety :" her mother was
a multitude ! " Write to him at once, Dele," said she,-
" break it all off; and leave it with me !" Miss De
wrote a scathing, withering note to Mr. Slopill, revoking
the engagement that had existed between them for sev-
eral years. How far that mended the matter we under-
take not to say; but, that night, Mr. Slopill apologized
to Mr. iLovegood. The mists rolled away, and if Mr.


356      THlE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

Slopill was not a wiser man, he deserves to be set down
as a stupid dotard.
When Mr. Lovegood became acquainted with all the
facts, we can scarcely be surprised, that he thought it
rather an unbecoming episode in the life of a candidate
for confirmation, and highly derogatory to the character
of a serious person.
Troubles, it will be perceived, were fast accumulating
on Mr. Lovegood's hands. The split between Mr. Slo-
pill and Miss Dele served to renew the old stories; for
Miss Dele no sooner found herself adrift on the wide
ocean of uncertainty, than she set herself diligently to
the task of again entrapping Mr. Slopill. In order to
accomplish this, she had by slow degrees and insinua-
tions to ingratiate herself into his favor. This was not
to be accomplished, without making a scape-goat of the
Rector. Her first work was to convince Mr. Slopill,
by what means it little booted, that after all Mr. Love-
good was not exactly so clear as he might have been ;
but let it pass now ; in future she should know better
how to act. The two hundred thousand assisted Mr.
Slopil's faith very much, and the breach was soon
healed. Of course, to keep Mr. Slopill alive, the old
story must at least be insinuated.
Mrs. Fussy, Mrs. Fastidious, and Mrs. Nochurch,
were more active than ever ; and even the elder Blem-
mertons were getting a little more decided in their
stand. The. old groggery story, too, was revived, with
fresh relish and gusto, notwithstanding the quietus that
it had received. Added to all this, was the affair
of Ben Slocum, and the desertion of the church by the
aforesaid ladies; all of which, in certain quarters, was

DOTTINGS EY TUE WAYSIDE.            357
accounted a great loss to the poor church, and a lasting
dishonor to the Rector. And worse than all, the tocsin
rang with the alarm, that Mr. Lovegood was playing
at the tune of "two strings to his bow." It was an
established fact, that he had courted Dele Blemmerton;
and it was just as certain, that he had gone. to Mrs.
Densmore's to court Agnes Wallace. The gossipers
knew all these. to be stubborn facts, and they were .not
slow in relating them. And 0, wasn't Mr. Lovegood
a bad man? 0 dear, 0 (ear, was such a man fit to
preach the gospel; courting two ladies at one time ?
0, fie on him, fie on him! What shall be done with
him? Who ever heard of good Dr. Skyrocket, or Dr.
Riproarer, doing such a thing? Ah me ! ah me ! it's
too bad, it's mean, it's contemptible.
Meantime, Dr. Goodenough had paid the debt of na-
ture; and now, by the terms of agreement between
him and the vestry, the Rectory was to be given up to
Mr. Lovegood; who, we should have stated before, had
boarded all the while with Mr. Friendly. Mr. Love-
good would not consent to see the aged widow remove
from the home which, for so many years, had been
sanctified by her presence. Every nook and corner of
it seemed eloquent of her name and praise. It was
therefore agreed, that he should remove to the Rectory,
and take up his residence there, leaving the manage-
ment of the household to Mrs. Goodenough. This was
deemed a judicious and excellent arrangement, by all
the parishioners. Mrs. Goodenough, though enjoying
excellent health, was an aged lady, but exceedingly
active for her time of life; and it was affirmed, that
Mr. Lovegood would make her home agreeable to her,


DOTTING BY TIHE WAYSIDE.   359

and cheer her declining days, as a son dearly be-
loved.
It was thought to happen well, on another account.
The time for Agnes to leave Mrs. Densmore's had now
arrived; and every thing seemed to be propitious, for
Mr. Lovegood to bring her home, to live with himself
and Mrs. Goodenough.
This report was not long in finding circulation. The
knowing ones took it up with delight. Some thought
it a high-handed measure. The Blemmertons did not
hesitate to say, that it would be a disgrace. Whether
Dr. Riproarer preached a sermon on the subject, tra-
dition does not relate.
So it was : poor Agnes was already dragged into the
arena of strife, and her name was bandied about with
an unsparing hand. Happily for her, she was ignorant
of all that was said. Happy in her conscious rectitude,
looking forward to the day when she should join her
dear good father, as she always called him, in his own
home, which would be hers; and yet twining her heart
about her fond school associations, her days glided
away in mingled sadness and delight; delight, at the
prospect of having a home that she could call herown,
and the companionship, protection, and guardianship,
of one unto whom she could look as a father; sadness,
at the thought that she must tear herself away from
her beloved "Mother" Densmore, and the joyous remi-
niscences that-clustered about her school.
And now, every evening, when the little glee-song
is sung, Agnes is observed to steal away to her own
room; and there, falling on her knees, she pours out
her heart in prayer, and finds solace and comfort in

the thought, that, come what might, she would every-
where be under the protection of her Father in heaven.
Yes, thou lone wanderer over the way of life, God is
everywhere; and everywhere is He the Father of the
faithful ; everywhere is He the Father of those who
bear the impress of the Son. The earth and the heav-
ens are but a vast temple of praise; the sun, moon, and
stars, but glittering lamps to light it withal. And, lo!
when the heavens and the earth shall pass away, and
the new heavens, and the new earth shall be revealed,
that too will be a vast temple of praise, of which the
LAMB that was slain shall be the LIGHT and the GLORY.
Go out on thy way of life. Trust in Christ and be
strong. God is everywhere. But nowhere is He more
graciously present, than in the hearts of the humble,
and contrite, and faithful, when lifted up unto Him in
prayer, or when, in the Holy Sanctuary, they draw
nigh unto Him in the devout reception of the means of
grace.
Agnes had been confirmed at a late visitation of the
Bishop, and was now a devout and regular communi-
cant of the Church. She was therefore not without the
aids and comforts of divine grace, to meet the real
issues of life. And when she came down from her
chamber, no one would have supposed, that scalding
tears had chased each, other down her cheeks. A ra-
diant smile played over her countenance, bespeaking
the calm which reigned in her heart.
But, at last, the day of separation came. The exam-
ination is over ; the diplomas are given; the parting
kiss, the long, long embrace, the tears of separation, the
"mother's" blessing, are all that remain !

358    THE BLEMMERTONS; OR7


360     THE BLEMMEIRTONs; OR,

On the appointed day, Mr. Lovegood's carriage drove
up to the door of the Seminary; and lo, and behold!
wonders upon wonders! there is a lady in it.
The door of the carriage is thrown open; the lady
steps out; and Agnes has a mother. Mr. Lovegood
comes up smiling, laughing, and weeping. "This is
your daughter, my dear."  "And dear Agnes,-and
this is Agnes,-the sweet Agnes." And they both em-
braced her, shedding tears of joy. Even Mother Dens-
more weeps; the girls, too, sympathize in the delights
of the moment; they sing again the glee-song, laugh-
ing through tears. It is a day of sad partings and hap-
py greetings. All are happy ; all are sorrowful. It is
a day of bright sunshine ; if there be a cloud, it is
gilded by the rosy hues of light and joy.
It is a world of vicissitudes. And Mr. Lovegood is
married ! And he neither addressed Agnes, nor Deliah
Airmyth Blemmerton? Just so. The ladies for once
were mistaken. They had no one to blame but them..
selves. "It all came," as Aunt Sally Milk-and-water
afterwards said, "from their being too wise and too
anxious."
But, as yet, the busybodies are in profound igno-
rance. During Mr. Lovegood's absence, nothing but
the expected arrival had been canvassed; the disgrace
of the thing; the town talk it would create. Several
of them, too, were all anxiety, wondering whether
Agnes Wallace would return as Mrs. Rector; in that
event, numerous plans were laid. "The Blemmertons
did not intend to recognize her; the Misses Highflyer
could not think of noticing a clergyman's wife who
sprung from nothing." Mrs. Nochurch, Mrs. Fussy,

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.            361
and Mrs. Fastidious, who still croaked, declared they
were glad of it; it would teach some people a grain of
common sense ; they knew she would be very extrava-
gant; that would be some consolation; the congregation
would soon get clear of Mr. Lovegood, they reckoned,
when that girl came into the Rectory as the Rector's
wife. Even Aunt Sally shook her head ominously, and
gave an occasional sigh, by way of chorus ; for the old
lady began to be a little uneasy, lest she had committed
herself too soon on the Rector's side. "Ah, well, well,
I reckon we'll soon know the 'wust,' as my poor mo-
ther used to say ; but the times have changed,-yes, yes,
there's more 'larnin' now they say, that's it, I reckon."
Meantime, at a late hour of the night, Mr. and Mrs.
Lovegood and Agnes arrived at the Rectory. Even
Mrs. Goodenough was taken by surprise; for Mr. Love-
good had not given her so much as a hint of his inten-
tions. But her heart was glad, when she discovered
that her fine son, as she called him, had made so excel-
lent a match, and her old home was to be enlivened by
two such beings as Mrs. Lovegood and the charming
Agnes.
Notwithstanding the pledges of Mrs. Blemmerton,
that if Agnes came to the Rectory she would not pay
her any attention, yet, having heard, the next morning,
that Mr. Lovegood and Agnes had arrived, she was too
impatient to wait for particulars, forgot all her stormy
resolutions, and, long before 12 o'clock, she and Miss
Dele were attired, and waiting for their carriage to
drive up to the Rectory and learn the worst. "It can
hardly be so," ejaculated Mrs. B.,-" but, 'm deter-
mined to know." " Dear me, the mornings are so long,"
16


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE,  363

taking out her watch, " but it is twelve, and there's the
carriage ; come, Dele."  And the ladies, Miss Dde es-
pecially, dressed in very becoming style, plain, neat,
simple, free from flowers, rouge, or any thing of the
kind, and looking as innocent, quiet, gentle, fascinating
as possible, junp in, and away they drive.
The bell rings ; they enter the parlor of the Rectory:
it is a little dark; it is well for the ladies, else in a
fuller light they might have exhibited signs of pallor.
Mr. Lovegood enters. "0O, Mr. Lovegood, I'm so
glad you've returned, and all safe and sound. And
how is Agnes? how does she look? 0, I wanted to
see her so badly, that I could not wait another day !"
Agnes enters the parlor, and is introduced as Miss
Wallace. What a comfort ! And now a dark room is
comfortable on another account. The pallor has de-
parted, and a crimson glow blushes on the cheeks of
the ladies. 0, how red,-how it burns,--and how the
eyes sparkle,-Miss Dele is certainly getting handsome.
She and the two hundred thousand would not be so bad
a bargain, after all. "And now Miss Agnes, I suppose,
has finished her education, and you willnot send her to
Madame Fanciful's ?" " Agnes must determine that for
herself; what do you say, my daughter?"  " I expect
always to be a student," replied she, " but I do not
desire to go to Madame Fanciful's."
"She is a famous teacher; she makes girls so accomn-
plished. My Dele, and Julia Jasper, never went to
any other school. And I reckon now, Mr. Lovegood,
you begin to feel like taking my advice; the Rectory
will look so forlorn without-Well, you know-" " O,
let me introduce you, Madam, to Mrs. Lovegood," said

he, rising, as his wife entered the room. Now darken
the room, bring in water, a smelling bottle, let no light
intrude. 0 ye cynics, close your eyes! 0, ye mirth-
full nymphs, look not upon the scene. What concern is
it of yours, if the ladies grow pale, and struggle hard
to suppress their chagrin and disappointment?
"A short call,-mnany calls to make this morning!
Dear me, it's nearly one o'clock; come, Dele,-good
morning, ladies,-good 1 iorning, Mr. Lovegood."
The ladies got into the carriage, scarcely seeing the
pavement, and drove home. "Well, well, well !" ex-
claimed Mrs. B., as she threw herself back in the
carriage, "if that isn't cool !" Miss Dele hummed a
tune: "I never lov'd a tree or flower."
"The tall, gawky, ugly thing. What does she look
like? A pretty clergyman's wife ! A charming pros-
pect for the parish, isn't it ? Two women to support,-
curls too,-rigged out like a young girl, full of airs and
graces."
Drive home, ladies, and take an effervescing draught,
and a little ice-water. Mr. Lovegood has committed
no crime. He has only followed your advice; -and, in
his choice, he has acted on the principle of the "Know-
Nothings." He is certainly old enough to choose for
himself.
And now you would like to know who Mrs. Love-
good was, and to have a description of her. We know
not, that either would be particularly edifying, but
suppose we must gratify so reasonable a desire. She
was the sister of the Rev. Mr. Hardworker, whom Mr.
Lovegood met in his trip to the mountains. Let that
suffice for one fact; for the other, Mrs. Lovegood was

I

362     THE BLEMMEiTONS; OR


DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.  365

364     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

about thirty-six years of age, of prepossessing appear-
ance and dignified manners; one who, upon a slight
acquaintance, would have been judged fully qualified
to fill her station, with honor to herself and husband,
and good to the church. We have no taste for the ta:sk
of describing the color of a lady's eyes or hair, or the
length of her nose : please excuse us, on that score.
We are not writing sentimentalism. She was neither
very handsome, nor exceedingly hard-favored. She
pleased Mr. Lovegood; and so she ought to please you,
as it is a matter that does not in the least concern you.
The Blemmertons doffed their mourning about this
time ; whether for joy that Mr. Lovegood was married,
or Ben Slocum's cousin dead, we undertake not to
write.
Aunt Sally said, "she reckoned they'd hev peace
now. She was really glad it was over ; some people
were so queer. It didn't used to be so in her young
days. They hev too much larnin now." The truth is,
Aunt Sally was fast working round on the Rector's
side again.
The Blemmertons continued their pew in church, and
attended about once a month. It was a long time
before they visited the Rectory again; upon which
there "hangs a tale," which in due time will come out.
Nor was Agnes invited to any of their entertainments.
Aunt Sally said, "it was because they were ashamed
of themselves."  But, in, this, she was, we think, mis-
taken.

CHAPTER XXXI.
AGNES WALLACE AT SCHOOL AND AT HOME. MR. HEART-
FUL. A RIDE' A COURTSHIP'; AND A FAILURE.
AGNES, for the four years that she was under Mrs.
Densmore's tuition, had been a hard student. She had
now arrived at that period of life, when she could fully
appreciate Mr. Lovegood's kindness to her ; and the
desire to manifest her gratitude to him, apart from a
sense of her own deficiencies, and need of education, had
acted as a powerful stimulus. Poverty and dependence,
too, often are powerful stimulants to the young. hence,
while the children of the wealthy, under the most pro-
pitious circumstances, often fritter away their time at
school or college, and return home and enter the world,
with little else than an empty diploma, and dollars and
cents,-with  empty heads, frivolous manners, and
warped or corrupt principles,-the children of the poor
depend entirely upon their education, appreciate their
privileges, make the most of their time, and come out
qualified with heart and head learning, prepared to take
a high stand in whatever position Providence may al-
lot to them.
The free use of a large amount of spending money is
too often seriously detrimental to the progress of the
children of the wealthy, who are indulged in this way.
No boy nor girl will make due progress, with a pocket
full of money. It will be found ever to be in the way


f
f
S

THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

of books, studies, mental exercises, and indeed of good
manners ; making a child haughty, extravagantly fond
of dress and independence; filling the heart with
" Young America," and moulding the character by a re-
gard to the potent dollar, rather than by mental and heart
culture. Dollars and cents burn the fingers of a child.
It should, therefore, be permitted to burn itself as
little as possible ; and of the spending of every penny
granted, the parent or guardian should require a strict
account.
Few moments found Agnes idle. Many weary nights,
while her room-mates were wrapt in slumber, was she
found, till a late hour, poring over her books, before the
dimly burning lamp. And the result was now mani-
fest. In four years, she had become a scholar of no or-
dinary attainments. She read Latin and Greek with
fluency ; also French and German ; was quite an adept
in painting and drawing; played well on the harp and
piano, and sang sweetly. Nor had she neglected those
accomplishments whichhad domestic life more express-
ly in view. Mrs. Densmore had aflrded her every
opportunity of improvement in housekeeping; and
when she became an inmate of the Rectory, the elder
ladies soon discovered, that she understood the routine
of domestic pursuits and duties, from the cutting out
and making of a garment, to the baking of a pound-
cake. And she was so good, withal, so amiable, so gen-
tle, that she won all hearts. Highly accomplished,
and of attractive, dignified, yet simple manners, a de.
vout Churchwoman, ever ready for all good works,
wherever she went she seemed to move in a charmed
circle, the admired of all admirers. All forgot the poor,

sorrow-stricken orphan girl, in the full-grown, majestic
Christian woman, of cultivated mind, and transcendent
personal charms.
Mr. Lovegood, who loved her as a fond father loves
his only daughter, often pressed her to his heart, and
thanked her for having giyen him so much satisfaction.
" The best act," he said, "'that ever I performed in my
life." The old silver cup was placed away as a sacred
reminiscence ; and every anniversary of Mrs. Wallace's
death, it was produced, that the past might be revived
in his memory.
Agnes is becoming so universal a favorite, that fears
are entertained at the Rectory, lest the charm of her
society may soon be lost there.
Of all the gentlemen who visited the Rectory, Mr.
Ieartful always seemed the most deferential towards
Miss Wallace. There was an unwonted reserve on his
part, that always made Agnes melancholy, and served
to carry her back to that eventful night, when she met
him under the dimly burning lamp. He was then a
young man, and she a little girl. All the past would
gush up into her heart,-the sad death of her father and
mother, the conduct of the Blemmertons, and her own
altered condition in life. And 0! how she wished for
one moment, one happy moment, just to thank him, to
manifest her gratitude. With these thoughts she would
seek her chamber and commune in silence with her
God.
A long time had passed, without the occurrence of
any thing worth relating. Mr. ileartful had been a
constant visitor at the Rectory; but few words had
passed between him and Agnes, except on commonl-

II

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

367

366


368     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

place topics. One day, he called and sent in his card,
with the request that Miss Wallace would take a ride
with him in the country, to enjoy the pleasant afternoon,
and the beautiful scenery.
They proceeded a mile or so, making an occasional
remark on the grandeur of the hills, and the noble riv-
er which swept on before them, or the passage of a
beautiful bird as it flew by them in the air. But -Mr.
lleartful was more than usually silent ; and Agnes,
dwelling on the past, could not overcome a feeling of
melancholy. So they passed along, each, for the most
part, wrapped in thought and emotion. At last Mr.
lleartful remarked, " Miss Wallace,-no, Agnes, I will
call you, if you will permit me."  "Yes, Agnes, if you
please, Mr. Heartful," said she, scarcely concealing the
tear-drop that filled her eyes, as she turned away her
head; for he had not called her Agnes, since the day
he took leave of her, when she was about to go to Mrs.
Densmore's.
" Agnes, I little thought, on that memorable night,
that I should ever enjoy the pleasure of seeing you what
you are. But, God's ways are not as our ways. Would
that I could tell you all that thrills my heart, when
memory reverts to that night. Ah, we have both
passed through sorrows and vicissitudes since then ! But,
there are memories clustering around that old lamp-
post, and that dilapidated old house, that I would not
part with for all the world ! Forgive mo for touching
upon so tender a theme. My heart is full, very full,
and I cannot avoid it."
" Speak on, Mr. Ileartful," said she, looking upon him
with her full lustrous eyes, for she had no conception of

the point to which his conversation would lead. " Ire-
joice to meditate on that past. It is my frequent em-
ployment. It brings to me many, ah, how many, remi-
niscences of sorrow ; but, not one of shame nor false
delicacy. My condition in life is indeed changed ; but
I have not forgotten the past of my history, nor do my
feelings foster a false and unworthy pride, when I con-
trast the past with the present, especially in the pres-
ence of my benefactor."
" Ah, that word ! that fatal word ! Please recall it,"
said he, manifesting more emotion than she had ever
before observed in him.  "I would not have that
word or thought come between me and the gleam of
happiness which I have of late hoped, perhaps too fond-
ly hoped, would flash across my pathway. I have kept
that past ever before me, as a bright spot in my check-
ered life. I have watched the little Agnes, as she came
up to womanhood ; have nursed in my heart the fond
hope of seeing her what she is, and what I was sure she
would be. And now,-well,-ah, well, I want words
to say all. But I have nursed the hope, that a greater
blessingis in store for me, than the mere pleasurable
memory of the past. Do not deem me selfish. That
past would much more than reward me, for my poor
performance of a bounden duty. Ah, believe me, I
scorn to claim any other reward, than my own conscious
reflections. The thought would be unworthy in me ; nor
could I dare to hope for your respect, in entertainingit.
I know that your whole noble soul would revolt at it.
No ; Agnes, understand me. I appreciate the delicacy
of your position and my own. That word, 'benefactor,'
stands in the way as a barrier. But I ask you, can it
160

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.


370     THE BLEMMEIRTONs; OR,

itot be forgotten? Can you not expunge it for a mo-
ment from the memory of the past; and hear me, as
though it had never been ?"
" Ah, Mr. Heartful, that I could have saved you and
myself from this moment of pain !"
" And is it so, Agnes? He whom you call father, is
the only benefactor. He it was who trained my youth-
ful heart, who instilled into it, by God's blessing, every
emotion of good. To him do I owe whatever of good
my life has ever brought forth; and it has been but lit-
tle. I may say with Jacob of old, 'Few and evil have
the days of the years of my life been.' I owe him, un-
der God, every thing; he is my spiritual father; and if
I am worthy of you, or of a kind thought from you, to
him I owe it,-to him I am under greater obligations
than you are, or ever can be. Me he rescued from the
ways of darkness and death. And but for him, I should
never have been fitted even to appear in .yuur presence,
or to exist on the earth. Therefore, let not that hard
word interfere between me and the happiness so essential
to me. May he not, Agnes, be our father, and give us his
blessing ?" Mr. leartful ceased, overcome with emotion.
"Me, a portionless, unknown girl, without family,
the humblest of the humble! And would you tranuel
your bright fortunes, with a name so ignoble, a woman
whose origin is so obscure? No; Mr. Heartful, you are
too generous. I esteem you too highly for that. Let
ine retain my humble position ; and, if God so will, let
me unite my hmnble fortunes with one whose name will
not be tarnished by the union. It would be unjust in
ne, to entertain such a thought. Let me be permitted
still to look up to you, as the noblest, the most gener-

DOTTINGS BY THE-WAYSIDE.           871
ous of friends; one whom I may always cherish and
admire ; in whose prosperity I may delight; whose
good name I may wreathe in unfading laurels, arid wear
near my heart. But, 0 never, never think of making
me your wife !" She could say no more.
" And must this be so ? Must my cup be dashed?
Noble, generous Agnes! If you could only see my in-
most heart! But I may not,-I dare not,-I will try
and bow to your decision, and hope for the best. Only
forgive me, for thus intruding upon the sanctity of your
feelings, and take my blessing. May that good Being
who has watched over you, still guide you on the way.
.And if this happiness be denied me, may you be blessed,
ever blessed with the choicest blessings of heaven and
earth! And may I have strength and grace to bear my
lot in life, whatever it may be, till the evening come!"


372

CHAPTER -XXXII.
JONATHAN HEARTFUL IN CONGRESS.   AFFAIRS AT THE
RECTORY, NOT SO PLEASANT. TATTLING, JEALOUS-MIND-
ED YOUNG LADIES. A LETTER FROM CONGRESS, ETC.
JONATHAN HEARTFUL goes to Congress again. But
this time he takes his seat in the Senate Chamber. It
is an unusually important session, and a very exciting
one in the political world. Mr. Heartful distinguished
himself in several brilliant speeches, seemed to have
acquired new powers of strength of mind and body.
He was the champion of the Session; and his name
rang throughout the country, from North to South.
The daily papers were watched at the Rectory of St.
's, with an interest that increased day by day.
" Jonathan again !" Mr. Lovegood would exclaim. "lHe
will fight them through! He's a perfect lion !" rub-
bing his hands with delight. And Agnes would take
up the paper, after he laid it aside ; and would steal
away to her chamber, and con it over, line by line,
again and again. Her full heart welled up with tears of
joy and thanksgiving at his success. She knew not
that she loved him, otherwise than as a very dear friend;
as a benefactor, to whom she owed so much. She dared
not trust herself with such a thought. She observed
that, when he called to take leave at the Rectory, pre-
paratory to his departure for Washington, he was unu-
sually sad. But now, in the light of his brillant ca-

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

5
i
t

373

reer, immersed as he was in national business and its
excitements, she doubted not that every tinge of melan-
choly had passed away, and that, when lie returned
home, she would find every trace of the past obliter-
ated This was as she wished. And yet she hung upon
his name and words, with an anxiety which betrayed
much more than ordinary interest in him.
Whenever a letter came to Mr. Lovegood, there was
always a kind word for Agnes. She was not forgotten,
amidst the most exciting contests. "Give my love to
Agnes :" and once he added, underscored, "She knows
IWw sincere Iam."  Mr. Lovegood did not observe the
crimson flush which suffused her cheek, when he read
the sentence. He entertained not the slightest suspicion
of what had passed.
Meantime, things had gone on as usual in the parish.
Mrs. Lovegood had become an invalid; and at the same
time she gave proofs of an unamiable temper. Mr.
Lovegood begins to fear, that he has made an unfortu-
nate match. His bright day which promised so fair,
begins to be clouded. -His wife is at times peculiarly
taciturn. The parishioners begin to notice it; and the
captious busy-bodies are but too happy, that their proph-
ecies are fulfilling, while the good and consistent mem-
bers of the congregation lament it, and sympathize with
their beloved Rector.
Even Agnes wears not her usual, happy, cheerful
countenance. There is a gloom hanging over the Rec-
tory. Indeed, Mrs. Lovegood is growing unkind to
the once idolized Agnes; .but all this she keeps from
Mr. Lovegood. She at times calls her' "dependent,"
and otherwise treats her rudely, saying that Mr. Love-

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.


THE BLEMMERToNS; OR,

good has enough to do to take care of his own family,
without educating and supporting other people's chil-
dren.
Poor Agnes, for the love she bears her "good father,"
resolves to endure it all, with a meek, submissive spirit.
The Blemmertons, too, are very bitter against her;
and, though they have no intercourse with the family,
they occasionally meet her in company, and are but too
pointed in their efforts to mortify and wound her feel-
ings, on all occasions. "There is that dependentI!"
Miss Deliah would remark, just loud enough for her to
hear it. And then there would be a twitter among the
young ladies, who were jealous of Agnes's attainments,
and the attentions paid to her in society. "Yes, how
wonderfully smiling she looks !" rejoins Miss Jenny
Highflyer. "That sash she thinks becoming; and it
would be, if her own money bought it. I wonder she
does not learn to do up her curls in a better style."
"La, me! if there isn't Mr. Slapperdasher speaking
with her. Well, wonders will never cease. Before I'd
live as she does, I'd go and learn a trade. Dependent
on Mr. Lovegood, even for the clothes she wears. And
he calling on the vestry for an increase of salary! I
don't wonder at it, when Miss Agnes Wallace is to be
dressed and maintained at the expense of St.  's
congregation," says the young lady, who forgets that
her grandmother kept a beer-shop, and her own father
commenced the world with making and selling penny
tallow-candles, which he carried about the streets, at
retail, upon a pole. 0, but this is a great world; and
what magnificent fools a little money makes of some
people.

374

k)
r.,f
}dam SSx
.  3
Yl
S
v
qqg g:C
tai

"It's actually ridiculous !" says Miss Deliah. "Fa-
ther thinks, that Mr. Lovegood's salary is already t o
large. Indeed, lie says clergymen ought to have no
more than barely enough to live on; they should be
kept poor ; it keeps them humble, and in their place."
And, Miss Dele, many of them do not have that.
The most of their would be satisfied with barely
enough. But, lean bones and an humble spirit go to-
gether. Yes, yes; it is all right, we apprehend. And
it may be, that many more entertain the same view,
beside your father. Yes, yes; keep them poor; it
makes them behave themselves. They attend only to
our spiritual interests ; they put no dollars in our pock-
ets; therefore they are of little account. Miss Dele has
changed her mind wonderfully. Two hundred thou-
sand could not,-well,-but let the young lady speak
for herself. "A pretty pass we are coming to, to have
such things saddled on the parish. I wonder she does
not go out, and learn to make bonnets, or dresses, and
support herself. If she had any spirit she certainly
would."
Agnes, on one occasion, was obliged to hear a great
part of such a conversation. She would gladly have
withdrawn from her position, and have avoided it; but
she could not. Being engaged in conversation herself
near the parties, she could not have retired from that
part of the room, without rudeness; and these consider-
ate young ladies had taken advantage of her situation,
on purpose to let her hear a little of their mind !
The session of Congress was drawing to a close ; and
Mr. Heartful's return was now expected.  One day,

375

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.


DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.  , 377

Mr. Lovegood, on his return from the post-office, handed
Agnes a letter. The superscription was in the hand-
writing of Mr. Ifeartful. She took it, and retiring to
her room, with a trembling hand and throbbing heart,
she opened it, and read as follows:
"WASHINGTON,       18-.
"DEAR AGNES,
"The time for me to return to     is drawing
near; and I hope soon to have the pleasure of joining
the dear friends at the Rectory. lBut my return to
at present, depends upon one circumstance. I cannot
bear to meet you now, under the circumstances of our
parting. Once more I entreat you to revoke youi' de-
termination, and permit me to return home and meet
you in happiness. Will you not, Agnes? You know
me too well, to require that I should use many words.
All depends upon your decision. Should you hold out
against my ardent devotion, I shall sail for Europe as
soon as Congress adjourns, in the hope that, while away,
you may make another happy.
"Good-by ; God bless you.      J. H1."
There, alone in her chamber, did that stricken girl
bow now in humble supplication to Heaven.   Here
was a new trial across her pathway. Taunted at home
and abroad with her poverty and obscurity, her heart
revolted at the thought of blending the fortunes of one
like Mr. Heartful with her own. And this, not because
she attached any importance to such factitious matters
as fortune or name; but she had his prosperity at heart,
and she feared that she would only trammel him in his

fo'l
Ail
'2*
;Akl
F
9
all
L
} yy
k'
}

career. She was mistaken, it may be; but, still pos-
sessed of an humble spirit and sensitive heart, she could
bring herself to no other conclusion. If there was a
struggle between the promptings of her heart and what
she believed to be her duty, it was but for a moment.
The next mail bore the answer.
18-.
" This, rest assured, Mr. leartful, is the most pain-
ful hour of my existence, since I have come to years of
discretion. You truly said, that we had known sor-
rows ; but, when I was a little girl, they came and
went, like the passing storm-cloud. Now, they cut
their traces deep in the heart.
"But ah, it cannot be. Duty to you forbids ; self-
respect, respect for you forbids. It grieves me to inflict
pain ; but, if it afford you any consolation, be assured,
that it is more than shared by her who pens these
lines.
"Troubles at home, too, admonish me, that I must
leave the roof of him whom I call father; and a kind
father he has been. And when you return home, Agnes
Wallace will be in her true sphere. I leave, in a few
days, to enter Mrs. Gilcrist's millinery establishment.
"«May you be happy.
"AGNES."
Mr. Lovegood had passed through many trials.
Now, for the first time in his life, did a real sorrow fall
upon his heart. All else had been but as the slight
zephyr playing through the forest, shaking the boughs,
and rustling the leaves. This was the terrible tornado,

376     THE BLEMMEETONs° O


378     THE B LEMMER TONs ; OR,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

sweeping on in its might, tearing up the giant oaks, and
leaving a wreck in its pathway. When Agnes inform-
ed hinm of her determination to leave him,and go to
Mrs. Gilerist's to learn her trade, the strong man
quaked and trembled ; and, for almost the first time in
her presence, he wept like a child. His heart almost
died within him. " And, my Agnes, will you leave me
thus ?" he exclaimed, overpowered with his emotiois.
" My daughter, my daughter, whom I have twined
about my heart, will she tear herself from me thus ? Oh,
that I had been spared this hour !"
Mrs. Lovegood, overhearing the conversation, came
into the room, and upbraided him with his childish-
ness. " It was the best thing the girl could do. She
was entirely right ; and she commended her indepen-
dence of spirit. Every body was talking about it; the
parishioners were complaining. Even Agnes herself
had heard some of their remarks. And she was satis-
fied, that no woman of spirit would remain in such a
position, and hear her name bandied about by every
idle gossiper. And if Agnes would take her advice,
she would go out at once, and not be dependent on any
one. It would certainly be no disgrace to her, but
much to her credit."
Poor Mr. Lovegood heard all this, with a heavy
heart; it was new to him. The cause of Agnes's deter-
mination was but too apparent ; nor did he see how it
could be remedied. Ie knew that she was devotedly
beloved by every member of the congregation whose
regard or opinion he deemed worthy of consideration.
As to the few gossiping, fault-finding intermeddlers, he
deemed what they would say, unworthy of a passing

379

thought. But he could appreciate Agnes's feelings, and
respect her motives ; and he bowed in resignation to her
fixed purpose. Indeed, after a day's reflection, he
schooled his heart into acquiescence, deeming the
course that Agnes had marked out for herself, not only
proper, but commendable.

U
I~
U7


1

CHAPTER XXXIII.
AGNES IN HER NEW SPHERE. PARTINGS. MR. LOVE-
GOOD'S OPINION OF HER COURSE.
AGNES WALLACE has entered upon her duties with
Mrs. Gilerist. The days of happiness which she had
promised herself, under the protection of him to whom
she looked as a father, had been clouded soon, ah, too
soon. But, such is the course of earthly joys; they
never stay. Change, change, is written everywhere;
grief rapidly succeeds to joy. Thanks to a benignant
Providence, the lowering cloud is ever relieved, how-
ever, by the brightening hues of the rainbow of
promise, which softly gleam from the midst of its dark
folds. The day will come, when there shall be no more
sorrows, no more partings. And then, 0 how beautiful
shall appear all God's doings with us, when all myste-
ries shall be solved, and the history of every sigh and
every tear shall be written up. 0, that we could see,
how beautiful now are all the ways of that kind Provi-
dence which guides our feet towards the promised land.
I took my sweet little girl in my arms, yesterday, an
innocent little prattler not yet three years old, and
walked up and down the long portico of my pretty
home. All around us bloomed beautiful roses, and
crape-myrtle ; the leaves of the cotton-wood, orange,
and weeping willow rustled in the breeze; just before
us, all over the garden, luscious, golden peaches hung

1

a
';)

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

$a
i

I

temptingly from the boughs, which bent with their
weight ; and the yellow figs, peeping as-it were from
the midst of the deep green foliage in which they clus-
tered, "invited the longing taste."  "See, daughter,"
said I, "the beautiful peaches."  "Pretty ! pretty !"
exclaimed she, clapping her little hands. "See there,
daughter, what beautiful flowers !"  " Pretty.! pretty !"
shouting in her gladness of heart. Just then, an insect
struck  up  his note, " Chat,-chat,-cchat,-chatter,
chatter, sha, sha, sha;" and a beautiful butterfly winged
past us, and lit on a cluster of ripe peaches. " 0
daughter, hear the sweet katydid ! see the pretty but-
terfly !" ."0 pretty, pretty, pretty !" almost bounding
from my arms, and exulting in her joy, her bright hazel
eyes flashing with delight.
Beautiful type of the innocent heart! The little child
sees beauty in every thing. Yea, beauty is everywhere,
as God is. Beauty is all around us. Every thing is
pretty, pretty, 0 how pretty ! God hath written beauty
on all His works. Every thing is instinct with lessons
on the beauty of His perfections. There is beauty in
the evening cloud, tinged with the last rays of the set-
ting sun, as they linger behind, loth to leave the world
in darkness. There is beauty in the little stars, as one
by one they dance out in the heavens, glad to do their
Maker's will. There is beauty in the spring-time, when
Nature travails in her birth of plenty, and the buds
and the blossoms come forth, to cheer the heart and
enrobe the earth in gladness. There is beauty in the
waving fields and summer harvests, when spring's fair
promise ripens into abundance, and crowns man's toils
with the blessings of the earth. There is beauty in the

THE BLEMMERToNS; OE,

380

381


382     THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

autumn sky, with its hoar frosts, and sombre shadows,
when Nature doffs her vernal robes, and commits them
to the tomb. There is beauty, too, in the hoarse voice
and icy grasp of winter, when the birds seek the forests,
and the flowers are locked in the'earth, and Nature is
clad in mourning.
All these beauties proclaim their lesson to man's
heart. They are teachers, seeking admission to his so-
ciety, in his hours of quiet and meditation, and lifting
his soul to the contemplation of things eternal. 'The
golden cloud bids us know, that, though the sun be lost
to sight, he shines as brightly in other climes, and will
come again, to gladden us with his genial beams; even
as the Lord of Hosts, in our darkest hours of trial,
gives evidence of His sustaining presence; for, when-
soever I-e hides His face behind some dark cloud of
adversity, if we have but faith, we are sure: to behold
His benign likeness in it, and the tokens of His return-
ing love. And the little stars bespeak the wonder and
order of His providence, and the thousand modes and
messengers to convey to us His blessings.
Spring, with its blossoming beauties; Summer, with
its horn of plenty; Autumn, with its ingathering; and
Winter, with its sober gait and icy touch ; all these
proclaim the richness and fulness of the divine grace,
co-working with God's children through the various pe-
riods of their existence here. In the spring-time of life,
it gives them the oil of joy and gladness, and the beauty
of holiness, to train their young hearts for heaven, and
flowers of virtue to bloom forever in that land of
Beauty, where they never wither, never die. In life's
meridian, they have the clustering and ripening fruits

A
ii

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.             383
of a well-trained life, with the promise of a full harvest
of blessedness when life's race is ended ; in life's de-
cline, the comforts of a holy repose, and confidence in
the steadfast faith of durable treasure in heaven; and
in the dark hour and winter of death, the cheering
hope of immortal glory, an eternal spring-time, when
these seeds of corruption, these bodies of mortality,
shall spring up immortal and incorrupt, and enjoy un-
ending youth in the kingdom of God.
Yea, beauty is everywhere ; but man's eyes are
holden, man's heart is dumb. He does not see like
the innocent little child. lie has no time. He must
on. He sees naught, but the changeable and the utili-
tarian. Here, to-day ; gone, to-morrow. ie cannot
pause for meditation. The world will not stop for him.
lie dares not loiter; he sets his heart on the change-
able, not on the unchangeable ; therefore, to him, all
things are not bright and beautiful. Teach us, 0 teach
us, (lear little children, to value the beautiful, to behold
the Lord's footprint everywhere, in our journey through
life, and to follow it to the land of the beautiful, where
our eyes shall be fully opened, and we shall see all
things pretty, pretty, yea, how pretty !
The old Rectory no longer resounded with the cheer-
ful song of Agnes; nor was her voice longer heard in
the solemn morning and evening response. Her ac-
customed place was vacant at the table; the young
persons who used to assemble, at the pleasant evening
hour, at the Rectory, no longer gladdened the genial
Rector's heart. But, every morning and evening, there
ascended to heaven a prayer for the absent one.
Agnes came occasionally, and spent an evenling with


384        THE BLEMMERTONs; OR,
her father ; but it was too painfully evident, that a
change had come over every thing at the Rectory. She
always met the same cordial embrace and thrilling
" God bless you, my daughter ;" but, sorrow had writ-
ten its lines, deeply, upon the brow of her "good
father."  Change was visible there: the cloud had
gathered ; the storm-king reigned.
Mr. IHeartful had gone to Europe, to be absent sev-
eral years. Over this, too, there was an impenetrable
mystery, which hung heavily upon Mr. Lovegood's
heart. He spoke of it to Agnes, as he read to her
some passages from a letter which he had just received
from Mr. Heartful. "I cannot see you now, for some
years, my dear pastor and guardian of my youth. I
could not now greet the dear ones at the Rectory!
Tlie is a pall upon my spirits, which, for two years
or more, must deprive me of that pleasure.  Good-
by.  Give my love to Agnes; protect and defend
her in her trials, and the Lord's blessing will be upon
you."
" What does that mean, my Agnes ?" said he.
"There is a mysterious meaning in these words, which
I cannot solve. There is a secret sorrow hidden under
them, that I fain would understand !" " From you who
have been more than a father to me, I dare not with-
hold any thing that can contribute to allay your anxie-
ties," said she, sobbing aloud. " I will tell you all!"
And then, to the sympathizing mind of a father, she
disclosed the secret of her heart, relating all that had
passed between herself and Mr. lleartful. Into the
sorrows of that moment let us not irreverently gaze.
"The heart knoweth its own bitterness." Sighs and

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.              385
tears tell us whereof we are made. They are good for
us, when they draw us heavenward.
And let none suppose, that sorrows such as these have
about them nothing of a sanctified impress or charac-
ter. They may not have, it is true ; but we should be
loth so to tamper with human affections, and the sor-
rows springing out of them, as to consider them as
belonging exclusively to the purely sentimental or
romantic. Far from it. Why may not such sorrows be
a portion of the cup which our Father gives us to drink
as well as others ? All sorrow is the product of sin.
Sin hath flooded the world with tears ; and, from the
weak infant wail, to the heavy cross which the mature
Christian is called to bear, from the trial which wrings
the heart of innocent childhood, to that which brings a
tremor into the frame and languor upon the brow of
age, we behold the complement and fulfilment of that
probation through wlicl we all are to pass. Anguish
is wr'ittenl everywhlere;insickness, in disappointments,
in heart-blightings, in wants, in crosses, ini partings.
But the young heart is elastic. Yea, it is true. Tt
breaks and. weeps like the cloud of spring. Its sun
comes out, and all again is fresh and bright. The cloud
vanishes, and the youthful sky is calm and serene.
Yea, youth is compensative. But for this, the youthful
heart would break, and never be healed. And yet,
sorrow never comes without leaving its mark. The
reader may not be conscious of this;but, could we tell
his experience, we could point out, in the inner recesses
of his being, the mark of some past sorrow which
though for the moment forgotten, is laid up in the
recesses of memory. And that memory is a curious
17


386        TILE BLEM MER TONS; On,
palimpsest; and, one by one, as age lays on its gray
hairs, or turns over the leaves of that palimpsest, those
marks will be revealed to them. Their youthful sor-
and blightings will reveal themselves as in a
mirror; they will read them, look upon them; they
will live again in the past, and weep, and bless memory
for its revelations; and, perchance, they will hope for
the day when the book of memory shall be fully opened,
and they shall muse on all the past, and live in the sun-
light of heaven's eternal day.
There are lines, even of sorrow, in every mans
life, buried in the past, on which he loves to meditate,
and which draw him heavenward, if in them he sees
the marks of his Lord, and they are weaning him from
earth and fitting him for the world to come.
Mr. Lovegood listened to the recital of Agnes's sor-
wlauhing and weeping. "Noble Jonathan, noble
Ages !"he exclaimed, as she concluded. "It's like
you both.  le is all generosity; his noble heart over-
flows with every chivalrouis, magnanimllouS senntlient.
I know not, my dear daughter, how you have endured
such a severe trial. You have my sympathies ; and I
appreciate your sentiments. You are worthy of each
other. And I am thankful, that you have been enabled
thus fully to sustain yourself, in a position which you
conscientiously believe to be right.
"But," continued he, "have you not been wrong, my
dauhter ? Does Christian virtue require you to sacni-
fice your own and another's happiness, on account of
what you might suppose the world would say ? The
world, I know, is prone to harshness and false judgment.
But we are not to be governed by the wrong judgments

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.              8
or censures of the wicked. Public opinion is as apt,
perhaps, to be wrong as right. It often sets up a false
standard ; and if we suffer ourselves to be ruled by this,
we shall be robbed, not only of much of our Christian
boldness, but even of our just rights. Yet, after all,
there is a great deal of right judgment in the world.
The censorious and the evil-minded are not the. sole
judges in the world. The good, the pious, the gener-
ous, and the just, also, have opinions, and they sustain
worthy actions, and measure our deeds by the standard
of justice. The world is not all one-sided and lynx-
eyed. There is some goodness in it. There are those
whose smile of approbation is as the sunshine, and
whose good opinion and just judgments are as the dews
of evening upon the parched earth."
"If," replied she, " I had no higher motive than
that named, it would perhaps be erroneous. I would
be willing to disregard the remarks of the censorious
and evil-minded ; and I am sure Mr. Ileartful would.
We should be happy in each other, let others say what
they might. But there are higher and more dutiful
considerations. Mr. I. is above my sphere in life. I
covet only an humble walk; he has a brilliant career
before him ; I should, I fear, only trammel him in his
just aspirations. I esteem and respect him too highly,
to stand in the way of either his usefulness or his aspira-
tions. You know, that the envious, who know all my
past sad history, would say, that he had married beneath
himself ; and had united his fortunes with one whom he
had beemiinstrumental in rescuing from the most abject
misery and poverty. And this, while it would not
affect the happiness of either of us directly, would be


11

used against him at every step. How could I forgive
myself for so rash an act? I may be wrong ; but, when
I calmly reflect on the subject, it appears that we had
better endure a brief period of heart-grief, than tinge
our whole life with sorrow. To you, my dear father, I
will not hesitate to say, that the sacrifice has been
great; but we share it together, and grace will be
vouchsafed to us, to bear it, as becometh Christians."
Mr. Lovegood, though not assenting to all her con-
clusions, could find it in his heart to say no more. "God
bless you, my daughter! You are a dear good girl;
and I hope and believe, there is a brighter day before
you. You are called to trials in youth, that your age
may, I trust, be blessed the more abundantly. The
dark days will assuredly roll away, and bright ones
come at last. Trust in the Lord and be strong. One
so pure, so innocent, so unselfish as my own good Ag-
nes, is not allowed to pass through the furnace, without
some wise and holy purpose.
"Bless God, then," continued he, "and go on the
way rejoicing. Let whatever may betide you, you
know in whom you have a friend, who will never desert
you, while he lives; and, above and better than all,
you know the goodness and mercy of the Friend of
friends, without whose friendship all others were of lit-
tle worth."

CHAPTER XXXIV.

I

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

THE BLEMMLRTON S; OR,

389

388

AGNES IN HER NEW EMPLOYMENT. A IINT TO SHOP-KEEP-
ERS, AND GENTLEMEN AND LADIES OF THE YARD-STICK,
IN GENERAL, A DENOUEMENT AT THE RECTORY, ETC.
WAs Agnes, the milliner-girl deserted by her hosts
of admirers? Nay; not by all. Mr. Slapperdasher,
and a few others of the cane and kid order, cut her ac-
quaintance; so also did the Misses IIighflyer, Beaudash-
er, and the like. The Elemmertons, of course, deemed
her altogether beneath their notice; before, she had
been the " dependent," a spiritless dependent, living on
the charities of the parish ; now, she was a common
milliner, altogether unworthy of a passing consideration.
But gentlemen and ladies who were more worthy of
these titles, sought her society as usual, and cheered her
on in her honorable course. She was a superior womn-
an, and made her mark wherever she went. Persons
of intelligence, refinement, and true discrimination,
gladly extended to her the courtesies to which her at-
taimnents, manners, Christian graces, and accomplish-
iments entitled her.
The time had not arrived,-in the coteries of   ,
when the "almighty dollar" was the sole conduceur
to the avenues of good society; when the "'Milliner-
girl" would be frowned back to her close room and her
needle. Labor, the lot of man, was no disgrace, except
in the eyes of such as the Elemmertons, who had sprung
from nothing, and merely floated along, upborne upon

l
#z
4
I
1  ,j
ii
,
1
+
s
4°
,

t
I
o- t
a
f
lii{{
t
S
1y
i


i
11
1
2      s
c
r
j ?
Fti   ss
j     t
}

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

the tide of worldly wealth, more respected in their own
eyes than in the eyes of others. She who was fitted
for the society of the refined, the liberal-minded, chiv-
alrous, and enlightened, was freely admitted to it,
whether she bore the ungrateful cognomen of the " Mil-
liner-girl," as the Blemmertons always characterized
Agnes, or drove her splendid carriage, or trod the
downy-carpeted parlor, or flashed her diamonds before
the costly mirror.
Agnes, from motives of delicacy and humility, and
from finding it more congenial to her sentiments and
feelings, went but little into company, much to the re-
gret of many of her real friends, who found in her so-
ciety a refining, elevating, and chastening influence.
She was a true woman; and she determined to fill her
sphere in life. Her highest delight was to discharge
her duties to Mrs. Gilcrist, and be found always in her
place in the sanctuary at the hour of prayer.
In a few months, sh had made herself so useful in
the business of her employer, as to be promoted from
the needle to the post of chief sales-woman ; and every
day found her behind the counter, waiting upon the
flocks of ladies who patronized the house. And Agnes
was so refined and ladylike, so free from all " the tricks
of trade," so fair and honorable in all her dealings, that
Mrs. Gilcrist's custom tebled itself in a few months.
The usual chaffering and Jewing in the establish-
ment ceased, except when such as the Blemmertons
called, who merely intended to exult over Agnes, glory
in their pride and ostentation, prate about their conse-
quence, and abuse all petty tradesmen and tradeswonen.
" La, what a price ! The girl has no conscience" (not

390

f
f
F
r
a
z

knowing her of course ;) " all milliner-girls are I believe
trained at their business, which is to get the most they
can. They will cheat if they get a chance ; they re-
quire to be closely watched." But all ladies of real
refinement shrunk from all chaffering with the charm-
ing Miss Wallace ; for there was no necessity of close
dealing with her. She dealt as a Christian should
deal; and inspired confidence in all riglit-minded cus-
tomers.
Many ladies, as they retired from the store, were
heard to remark, " Really, it does one's heart good, to
deal with Miss Wallace in these crooked times; so
much of a lady, so frank, so free from guile ; if there's
even a straw out of place, or a speck on a ribbon, it's
sure to be pointed out."  And, indeed, we must say, to
the credit of all ladies in general, that, notwithstanding
the many sore thrusts and hard hits they so often re-
ceive about their chaffering, trouble-making, Jewing,
and beating down, if dealers would be a little more
generous and just, would not proceed upon the principle
that all persons who enter their places of business in-
tend, if they can, to take advantage of them, and would
not "mark up" on their goods for the sake of leaving
room to " fall," there would be less of it.
But, as it is, a lady can hardly be a good economical
shopper, and have justice measured out to her, as
well as miuslins, without acquiring the " Jewing " art.
Clerks and salesmen, gentlemen and ladies of the yard-
stick, be wise ; quit the naughty practice. Place upon
your goods an honest, living proW, and have done with
the dishonest, dishonorable trickery of " marking " up,
and then "selling your goods below cost." For my

391

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.


i
I'
ri

THE BLEMMERToNS; o1,

part, I never deal with a man who always sells below cost,
who gives out the stereotyped expression, " It cost me
more than the money."   I think he either intends to
cheat me, or accounts me a fool or a knave. I know
that he cannot live by such a trade, unless his goods
are stolen, and I leave it to some one else, to impose
upon his charity, or good nature.
Time rolls on, bringing its changes and vicissitudes.
Mrs. Goodenough has paid the debt of nature, and
gone to join her sainted partner in Paradise. Mr. No-
church has been confirmed ; and is now regularly found
at the altar, whenever the Holy Sacrament is adminis-
tered. He has become a truly pious, devoted, and ac-
tive man in the Church, a second Mr. Friendly, co-
operating with the Reetor, in every good word and
work.
Miss Sally Fastidious has married Mr. Ben Slocum's
opponent, "the red-headed fellow, Ben Jenkins."
And Mr. Slocum himself is the same grinning, trifling,
wishy-washy Presbyterian that he was when we last
saw him.
Mrs. Nochurch, Mrs. Fussy, Mrs. Fastidious, amid
Dr. Riproarer, still court each other as of old, while
the ladies sound his trumpet far and near. Dr. Rip-
roarer is a very great man; so " they" say, and that is
enough. Mr. Lovegood, of course, and his troubles at
home, are happy subjects of comment, and afford the
ladies many delightful moments of recreation. Mr.
Slopill and Miss Dole keep on terms; they never appear
at church ; nor does Mr. Slopill know any thing of the
visit to the Rectory, the rapid coming and going of the
crimson in the cheek, and the great disappointment

392

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.              393
felt on that occasion. These are all profound secrets.
Mr. Lovegood is a very bad man ; tried hard to sup-
plant Mr. Slopill, but could not succeed. Miss Dele,
with the two hundred thousand, was not to be won
from his grasp so easily. Mr. Slopill, of course, brushed
his whiskers, and looked in the glass. Whew ! he is a
man of consequence, much too hard for the Rector. If
there is saw-dust about his eyes, he cannot see it. And
the gossiping deserters, being for the most part " cut"
by the true friends of the Church, their croaking raises
but light storms.
The elder Blemmertons still remain in statu quo.
Mr. Ifeartful has gone to Europe, and, when he returns,
will most likely make good the old prophecy. He and
Mr. Lovegood are devoted friends ; it is therefore best
not to act hastily. Prudence is a wonderful guide, and
often accomplishes great things.
Agnes being out of the way, and affairs having settled
down, Mrs. Blemmerton and Miss Dele determined to
call again at the Rectory. If they gain nothing by it
in one way, they may in another ; they may pick up
something to talk about, touching the freaks of the
Rector's lady; and that will afford some satisfaction.
But this visit was never repeated; they heard some-
thing not very congenial to delicate, sensitive nerves.
Mrs. Lovegood had here and there picked up a thread
of the old stories, which she had woven into a net-
work, and being that morning in one of her cross
moods, she spread it over the Blemmertons so thick and
fast, that they came near losing their eye-sight, and
suffocating under the operation. At last, rising in a
pitch of indignation, she darted into an adjoining rooni,
174

f


~iD
I

THE BLEMMERTONS; oR,

and brought forth, holding it aloft in her hand, and
swaying it to and fro as a grand trophy, the veritable
sermon-holder.
" There," said she, pitching it at the same time into
Miss Dele's lap, " there is the seimon-holder that court-
ed Mr. Lovegood, that you made, Miss Dele, with yOur
purse. Take it !"  0 ye tempestuous elements, blow
your blasts! Your howlings, your mighty roarings are
not heard. An earthquake would not have been so.
terrific. Mrs. Blemmerton groaned and gashed her
teeth. The ladies left the house in a rush and a storm,
choking with rage. "Insulted, grossly insulted, in the
house of the Rector !" Close the scene.
Here was an affair ! What was now to be done ?
What, but permit the choler to boil down. There is no
other cure in such a case. Like a fever, it must take
its course ; all that can be done is to mollify and apply
palliatives. With all their failings, the Blemmertons
had the vanity to keep the main point of the insult to
themselves. It cut too deeply and severely; in exposing
the wound, they could only have exposed themselves.
The fact that they had been grossly insulted by Mrs.
Lovegood, was liberally and bountifully retailed, but
the leal grounds thereof, no ingenuity could ever draw
from them.
It is not agreeable to record such incidents in the
character of a clergyman's wife. It is to be presumed,
however, that most persons expect to.find in them flesh
and blood; though it must be owned, that a great
many expect more from the wives of the clergy than
of any other men. They are expected to visit more,
be more at home, live on less, be more charitable, talk

394

i
t
r
tT
f-
,
r
f
,
'
i
e
{
.
s
'_
f
a*
k
f3
di
f
s;-
r
1'

395

less and know less, yet do more, than any other ladies.
They are more scandalized, envied, talked about, than
it is profitable to relate. If Mrs. Rector gets a new
bonnet, every body is agog to see it come to church ;
and then it is too gay, or too dashy, or too expensive ;
it is extravagant, or it has too many flowers,-flowers,
the beautiful things,-the prettiest things in the world,-
flowers, made by the hand divine to make glad our
hearts, and create music in the world, 0 ye are sinful
things in the bonnet of a Mrs. Rector ! Well, its bad
enough, without our writing about it. Still, we must
write our experiences. We ask not the reader's belief.
Say it's all made up; we are -satisfied. But we know
what we know.
Mrs. Lovegood was, in many respects, a most excel-
lent woman.; but she had one besetting infirmity,-
cross turns, contrary fits, spasmodic turns of crooked-
ness, which seemed to come and go like the whimsies
of a petted child. When the fit was off, she was all
that was excellent, a gem of a wife, who was ready for
any thing good ; to lend her mantilla for a pattern, or
to visit the sick, or to move among the parishioners, all
charms and graces; but when it was on, she was a
" Tartar ;" she snapped, and snarled at every thing and
every body. These crooked spells generally lasted
about an hour; but while they were on, Mr. Lovegood
was always minus the drawing-room and study. It was
too warm for him about the house.
These peculiarities, when fully developed, were soon
known; and though very painful to Mr. Lovegood and
the parishioners, they resolved to bear them, in the
spirit of good Christians, with the best possible grace.

DOTTING:$ BY THE WAYSIDE.


i
11
aii
11

Mrs. Lovegood was, herself, painfully conscious of her
peculiar failing, and strove against it, at times, with he-
roic fortitude. After her severe cut on the Blemer-
tons, she learned to deny herself to visitors when she
was in one of her unpleasant moods, which doubtless
saved her from many serious evils.
She was a confirmed dyspeptic: change of living and
of climate had preyed upon her health, until she was,
at times, perfectly wretched ; and then she could not
avoid making others about her unhappy. -Doubtless,
Christian charity would have said, that the poor lady
was more to be pitied than censured. At all events, we
feel inclined to draw the veil over many of her failings,
especially as she labored prayerfully to conquer them.
But we must not forbear recording one or two of her
most remarkable acts.
Numbers of the parishioners felt very kindly toward
Mr. Lovegood, and often remembered him, with small
presents and tokens of regard. Mr. Friendly was par-
ticularly thoughtful in this way. If he met with any
thing in market, that he thought would please the
Rector, he was sure to purchase a double quantity, one
half of which would find its way to the Rectory, always
borne to the door in his own hand. One morning, at
an early hour, he rang the bell, and handed to the ser-
vant a very fine goose. Imagine his surprise, as he
turned the corner, and passed on by the kitchen, at
seeing a window raised and the whole goose hurled out
at his head, barely missing the mark, and rolling along
before him on the pavement.
Acts of this kind Mrs. L. would frequently perpe-

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

MIR,
y
E
L

I
3
t
}
'r
i

rate, and then, in ten minutes, be found in her chain-
ber, bathed in tears of shame. So strange a thing is
dyspepsia.
On one occasion, Mr. Lovegood was quite sick. He
had a high fever, and the physician had requested him
not to see much company; to admit into his room a few
only of his friends, and but one at a time. This alarmed
Mrs. L., very much. She deemed the case a very crit-
ical one, and watched her husband with great anxiety.
Early one morning, Mr. Friendly, on his way to busi-
ness, called; and, as was his custom, walked directly to
the door of the sick room, and, gently tapping, softly
opened it, and was entering the room, when, suddenly,
he felt a decided negative pressure; and, before he
knew what it was, he found himself tightly jammed be-
tween the sharp edge of the door and the door-facing,
and clamped as tightly as a wedge. "You can't come
in, Sir !" said a voice from the negative force, which
negative force grew tighter and tighter, till the poor old
gentleman, who was already pretty thin, was nearly
flattened to the thinness of a board. lie declared, af-
terward, that he had, for weeks, a red and blue stripe,
up and down, behind and before, where he had been
confined in the stocks.
Two years rolled round, bringing to Mrs. Lovegood
restored health; and, as her health improved, she over-
came these unpleasant traits, and lived to see the day,
when she was as much beloved and respected, by all the
parishioners, as, before that, she had been dreaded. In
later life, she was often heard to lament her earlier fail-
ings; and frequently would she join in the merry laugh,

397

396

THE BLEMATERTONS; OR,

i,
i
Y
k
pnp
h
({
3
3
i
f
i
y
F
r
f


i
i.
f
f
J
4
I
f
$i
i
t
,.
,3t
i
i
j            !

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

at her own expense, with some of the older parishion-
ers, and recount her dyspeptic freaks with evident good
humor.
Mr. Friendly's pressure she would tell him was in-
deed a warm and tight one, but he knew how to appre-
ciate it as a token of her real regard for him. The par-
son and the goose were more closely allied than the
goose and his head. She was glad it did not strike him;
for, had it done so, his head would most likely have
been "demolished." And so would they amuse them-
selves with their jokes. The clouds had vanished, and
the sky was clear and bright.

a

398

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

399

l
_*
,i
3
(
SSA
Y
,{
33
Y
r ;'
t
.                                };
3 .1
1"
t
h
5 (_
t
,t
Tit
'

COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS BEFORE THEM.
LETTER FROM MR. HEARTFUL. REVELATIONS.

A

WE are ahead of our story. Mr. Heartful has been
absent for two years ; and, in all that time, Mr. Love-
good has received but two letters from him, the latter
towards the end of the first year .of his absence. It
breathed a spirit of melancholy, and was full of kind
remembrances to all at the Rectory, and of love to
"dear Agnes," underscored, and written in a trembling
hand.
One bright afternoon in September, towards the close
of Mr. Heartful's second year's absence, Mr. Lovegood
called at Mrs. Gilerist's, and taking Agnes aside, told
her that he had something of importance to commnuni-
cate to her, and wished her to come to the Rectory, in
the evening, when she would be relieved from business.
his manner was significant. His large, full eyes
beamed with delight, and flashed as when his whole,
soul was thrown into them.
Agnes hastened to the Rectory, about eight o'clock.
Mr. Lovegood was alone in his study. When she
entered and was seated, he unlocked a drawer in his
desk, and drew forth a letter which he handed to
Agnes. It bore a foreign postmark. There: was no
mistaking the writer. Yes; it was from Mr. Heartful.
"Read it, my daughter; it concerns you'!" said Mr. L.,

CHAPTER XXXV.

4A
,1
E j.
f
4vt
S i
T
1
C
Lam
S
r
7
e
a,
t
T
Fq
r
ru
t


DOTTINGS BY THE 'WAYSIDE.  401

400      THE ILEMMERTONS; ORS

as he gave it to her, and immediately dropped into his
seat, and, burying his face in his hands, sobbed aloud.
" Joy to the true of heart !" he ejaculated. " The God
of the fatherless is mighty! All praise be unto Him
who doeth all things well!' "
Agnes read as follows:
LIVERPOOL,        18-.
MY DEAR PAsTOR :-You have doubtless been sur
prised at my long silence; but I can now solve all
mysteries. From the first month of my sojourn in
England, I have been engaged in unravelling a curious
and difficult affair. By the merest accident, I learned
that a gentleman of your name had died recently, leav-
ing a large fortune without heirs in England.
My curiosity being excited, I inquired into the
matter. The gentleman's name was Robert Lovegood.
But either from a desire to embezzle the property, or to
baffle the curiosity of a stranger, the officials threw
every imaginable obstacle in my way. At last, how-
ever, I succeeded in ferreting out the facts in the case ;
and you may imagine my surprise, when I discovered,
that the deceased was either a brother or cousin of
yours.
And what is better than all, anu by what unaccount-
able train of circumstances it was brought about I
know not,-but our dear Agnes is, by his will, the
inheritor of his whole fortune. I give you the very
words of the will, and you may judge for yourself.
" After paying all my just and equitable debts, I give
and bequeath all my estate, whether personal, real,
or mixed, a statement of which I have filed with my

friend A. B., unto the heir or heirs of my cousin, Mary.
Wallace, late of England, but now residing in the
United States; and I require and charge my executors,
as aforesaid, etc."
Agnes read no more. She stood mute, and as if
transfixed to the floor. And was the poor orphan, de-
pendent, milliner-girl, an heiress? And what were her
emotions?  At the end of the letter there was this
postscript: "I can come home now. When this busi-
ness is. all arranged, I shall take my departure, and
greet you all again, I trust, in three months."
Shortly after the death of Mrs. Wallace, Mr. Love-
good had written to his brother, informing him of her
sad history and death, and giving him an account of
his intentions towards Agnes. To this letter he had not
received a reply ; and he concluded, that his brother
had long since died or removed elsewhere.
After the failure of Robert Lovegood, and the sacri-
fice made by Richard Grantner, and his sister Mary, to
pay his liabilities, for which Richard was surety, the
wheel of fortune turned in his favor, and Robert Love-
good, in the course of a few years, found himself in a
flourishing business. He wrote often to his cousins, but
never received any intelligence of them.
He rarely ever heard of his mother or brother. If
they corresponded at all, it was at long intervals; pov-
erty and a life of changes and vicissitudes, on the one
hand, and the absorbing cares of business, on the other,
served to curtail their communications, until at length
they ceased.

ICI

11

H

I "


402

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR

It had ever been the intention of Robert Lovegood,
to repair the loss sustained by his cousins ; but, as we
have shown, after he acquired the ability, he had, from
the want of proper intelligence respecting them, been
unable to fulfil his purpose.
Years rolled round ; and he had amassed a large for-
tune. He had married, but was childless; and his
wife had now been dead six or eight years. The letter
of his brother had been duly received, and he was about
to make arrangements to forward him a large draft, for
the benefit of Agnes, when he was attacked with his
last illness. But, upon the intelligence contained in his
brother's letter, he based his will.
The executors had, for nearly six years, with that
letter in their hands, which placed them in possession
of every necessary item of intelligence, studiously
avoided writing to Mr. Lovegood, to inform him of the
death of his brother, and of the fortune bequeathed to
Agnes.
Agnes retained her situation at Mrs. Gilcrist's, though
her change of fortune was soon noised abroad. She
and Mr. Lovegood were required to appear before a
Court of Record; and several influential citizens were
required to testify to the fact of her being the identical
heir of Mary Wallace. When this occurred, the sub-
ject was no longer a secret. But Agnes continued to
be the same modest, retiring, unassuming Christian
that she had ever been, and was found every day
behind the counter,as assiduous as ever in the duties of
her employment.
Those who had been her true friends, rejoiced in her
good fortune. But they neither loved, nor caressed, nor

U

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

403

admired her the more on this account. She could long
since have returned to the Rectory, without any com-
promise of her feelings.; for Mrs. Lovegood, having re-
covered from her ill health, yearned to have her socie-
ty again. But Agnes found so much delight in her oc-
cupation, that she preferred to continue it. And now,
that her fortunes had so wonderfully changed, she re-
mained at her post, from a sense of propriety.
But what a marked change had been wrought in
some other quarters! The worshippers of Mammon
now vied with each other, to see who could be most
profuse in praises and attentions. The Blemmertons
thought her a most charming girl, regretted that they
had enjoyed so little of her society, and made many
humble apologies that they had not paid her more at-
tention. " The truth was," they said, "their list of
friends had so extended, that they scarcely knew how to
reckon them. And if Miss Wallace had been over-
looked, they hoped to be forgiven, as it was purely ac-
cidental."  Card after card, and congratulation after
congratnlation,\poured in upon Agnes. Mr. Slapper-
dasher called in his carriage, for a ride ; and the Misses
Highflyer and Beaudasher sent their compliments, on
many occasions, requesting the pleasure of Miss Wal-
lace's company.
Agnes had not one grain of resentment in her com-
position. She knew how unreal and hollow-hearted all
this lip-service was, but she did not give her thoughts to
it. She took all things as they occurred, with a good and
honest heart. At peace with herself and her God and
Saviour, she was not elated at what the world called
her good fortune ; but she cherished the more the mem-

ii

rj
1
I
d

I


t
:
I
t
r
,
1
t
+
i
t

ory of her father and mother, and sanctified the Lord
God in her heart.
Mr. Pen Slocum Sapientium, doubtless at the sugges-
tion of a wiser head than his own, became one of Miss
Wallace's most ardent admirers. And the same old de-'
vices were resorted to, and a world of trouble taken, to
ingratiate Mr. Sapientium into her good graces. Little
parties were assembled, here and there, and things were
dexterously managed by a ruling hand, so as to throw
them together on numerous occasions.
A report was soon in circulation, that Mr. Pen Sb-
cum was going to do Miss Wallace the honor of taking
care of her fortune. Of course, it was a good and char-
itable act in the aforesaid Ben; a considerate act, that
entitled him to a large amount of self-approbation. She
was a lone girl, and needed a helping hand in the man-
agement of her estate. For this, Mr. Slocum was ad-
mirably calculated ! Who will say it was not a charity
in lim,,to entertain so good an intention ? Gentle read-
er, give Mr. Slocum the credit that is his due, while
we unfold one more page in his history.

THE BLEMMER TONS; OR,

404

i
}
!
i
f
#;
l
i
i
i
i
i
{i
1
j
i
3
1
i
't

"
!
.,
i
}
1
:,
i
,
i
!
;
4 t
a
1 d
t
t)
!![j j
f  #i
4  f
}
S
t

CHAPTER XXXVI.
A CASE OF SUPERSTITION, SHOWING HOW MR. BEN SLOCUM
BECAME FULLY PERSUADED THAT HE WAS TO BECOME
THE GUARDIAN OF AGNES'S FORTUNE. A SCENTED LET-
TER. MR. LOVEGOOD SAYING A HARD WORD.
TILE most yielding bodies in Nature, such as Air,
Water, Steam, are said to be the most powerful agents.
We do not avouch for it. Let it pass for what it is
worth ; or, if the question must be discussed, we leave
it to those whose province it is to elucidate such learned
topics.
But, we are confident, that there is an analogy in-the
intellectual world ; things the most light and airy are
frequently the most potential. The speculative notions
of the hair-brained theorist, are often found adequate to
the task of throwing into the shade, to some minds,
truths that ages of wisdom and experience have illus-
trated and verified. A quack always performs mira-
cles, and gets credit for what he does not, while the
regular practitioner gains no credit for what he does.
And so with mankind generally; one portion of the
race plods along at a slow pace, in a beaten path ; an-
other reaches the goal in half the time, on the pathway
of quackery and pretension.
The truth is, there is a superabundance of superstition
in the human family; and this is the element that all pre-
te nders lay hold upon. Joseph Miller did it ; and so did
J -iseph Smith, and Mahomet; so also does the "Spirit-

DOTT.INGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

i
}I

405

I1II

i;
r
P
i'
i


t'
i" i
t
,
:
I
r
{
{
(
t
i
is
'        j1
'        I
I        {{i
I  4
t }
r
3
}

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

rapping" mummery ; nor are they the only quacks the
world has produced in the pseudo-religious line. We
could name several scores of them ; but, in many quar-
ters, we should not receive the credit due to the dis-
covery.
Talk about the Salem Witchcraft as you please, as an
exploded piece of foolery, we aver that it is not explod-
ed. It lives in one form or another, and, ever and
anon, manifests itself in some new phase, dress, or phe-
nomenon. There are numerous believers in the " Dark
Mystery ;" the world is full of superstition, of Hags, too,
and Wizards. The doctrine of Fatality, "what is to
be will be," which has been fostered, even by many re-
ligionists, has had no small influence in keeping alive and
developing superstition, in some 'shape or form. But
we will not discuss the question. We merely assert the
fact, that superstition does exist. The Salem Witch-
craft has left its mark.
We know many persons, who would not set out on a
journey on a FRIDAY, or commence any new work on
that day ; many more, who have their lucky and un-
lucky omens, good and bad dreams, to which they at-
tach great importance. Even Mrs. Blemmerton had
her good and evil "signs."   When her right ear
"burnt," 'some one, she doubted not, was talking good
of her; had it been the left, the reverse would have
been the case. But the "sign" signally failed in the
fashionable saloon : "ignorance is bliss," sometimes.
We knew a neighborhood in our young days, in which
an old hag held sway, to such an extent, that she was
consulted on almost all difficult diseases, and on rob-
beries, love affairs, and sundry other matters. Her

i

407

house was a thoroughfare, day and night, for the citi-
zens many miles around. If a hog was stolen, she was
sure to be consulted ; and the sage answer would be,
" It was carried away by land or water;" a very satis-
factory answer indeed.
All the colored race who were ^ trickeded" * had to
" have the trick removed." Nor was this confined entire-
ly to the ignorant and unlettered. Many, of whom
better things might have been expected, had unbound-
ed confidence in Tippy, and consulted her, as time and
chance allowed, but always clandestinely, for they were
ashamed to have it known!
Not far from the city of  .-, a cove makes in -from
the river, through a narrow inlet, which runs round the
base of a high, craggy, rocky hill, and spreads out into
a basin, somewhat in the shape of a horse-shoe,-a
shape very apt in the philosophy of witchcraft. This
sheet of water is entirely hid from the shore, by the
hill round whose base the inlet flows. Were you to fol-
low the inlet, however, you would find that it leads to
a secluded sheet of water, hemmed in by rocky hills,
on whose sides grow tall pines and oaks, whose branches
sweep out over the cove, and, at almost all hours of the
day, shut out the rays of the sun making it a dark
dank, dreary, solemn-looking place, and altogether
adapting it to the pretensions, incantations, and orgies
of an old hag.
R For the benefit of the reader who may be unlearned in such mat-
ters, we state, that the colored race are very superstitious, and often
fancy or pretend, that they are conjured by witches. This often occa-
sions trouble ; they grow indolent, petulant, and turbulent; and noth-
ing will answer, but a counter-conjurer to remove the "trick."

L

406

p if

11

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

Y
ji
#
s#
_{
;.
,,
. ,
f  c


3 i
i
}
,
#
4
i ]
j"  7
ii
.

THE BLEMMER TONS; Ot,

t
I
'
'
i

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.

409

i I'
Iii II
I',I
:!
I
Il il,','I
,
Dili
IIII'  !
'ICI
ai

408

At the period of which we write, one of these wretch-
ed old pretenders and vile impostors had located her-
self at the base of one of these hills, by the side of the
cove, as a place adapted to her occupation. Her hovel
was constructed of poles, brought together at the top, in
the shape of a cone or pyramid, and covered over with
dirt; and thither, as many of the citizens of  , or of
any other part of the world, as chose to avail them-
selves of the knowing deeds of old Hagar, wended
their way, to consult her on their future destiny.
Mr. Ben Slocum Sapientium, after taking it into his
head, or having it put there, that it would be a kind-
ness in him to marry Agnes Wallace, with all his tri-
umphant Presbyterianism, could not resist the tempta-
tion (indeed we know not that he estimated the great-
ness of the sin, or thought of such a thing,) of consulting
the far-famed old hag. Accordingly, on a drizzly, sombre
day in October, Mr. Slocum might have been found at
the door of the hovel of the hag, an opening formed by
leaving a space uncovered between two poles. When
Mr. Slocum approached, she was in the act of drawing
a diminutive bucket from a mimic well, formed by
planting a keg in the earth, before which she sat on an
old stool. At her side was a stand, on which was
placed a looking-glass facing the entrance to the hovel.
This enabled her to see Mr. Slocum as he approached;
and now, as he stands looking on in amazement, she,
without appearing to notice him, goes on with her in-
cantations:
"Hocus-pocus in the well,
I draw the water out ;
Hocus-pocus will you tell,
W's tc his younng man aout."+

I ~

" There, Sir," said she, turning to Ben, and scowling
upon him, at the same time filling a glass with water
from the bucket, "look into that water, Sir! What do
you see ?"  "Nothing," says Ben, as pale as a sheet
and trembling from head to foot. "See nothing, Sir?
Your eyes want rubbing with the blue butter ;" saying
which, she rubs something all over Ben's eyes. "What's
see now, Sir ? Baby, I reckon ? Eh ? No, Sir, man ?
No, Sir, girl I reckon? Eh ? Thought so."
"I want to inquire about a girl, Madam," says
Ben, doffing his hat, and growing wonderfully polite,
as he wipes the sweat-drops from his brow. "Eh ? I
knew it. Rich, eh ? I knew it. Chances, eh ? Want
to know? Couldn't do without old Hagar. Thought so.
'Hocus-pocus, tell me how,
Sal, sal, olus cobus,
I'm to give directions now,
Fi, fa, habus nobus?'
"Yes, Sir, I read it now; not easy, but may be made
so. Yes : he's under his lucky star, takes lucky money."
At this Ben startles, and begins to feel in his pockets.
"Lucky money, Sir. Twenty round silver dollars for
luck. Yes: that's it, as I read it; that's what the Ho-
cus-pocus tells me."
Poor Ben has not a silver dollar in his pocket.
" Won't a twenty dollar note do ?" quoth Ben, wip-
ing the perspiration from his pale brow.
'"Hocus-pocus, will it do?
Hocus-pocus, tell me true.'
" Ah, yes: the lucky star is there. It'll do, Sir."
18

,
t
r

i
11
i1 j
K
S  aF

E
_
: ;

1


}i1
k(
4)
II

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

Ben pays the twenty dollars.
"Now, Sir, you are to put a long pole in your hat, in
place of your head, and fasten to it a piece of fat bacon,
and go out into the yard every night, holding it up high
above your head, singing this song:
'Leather-wing'd bat, come under my hat,
I'll give you a piece of fat bacon,
Come under my hat, leather-wing'd bat,
And the girl I will have I reckon.'
"And if a bat flies into the hat, then you are sure of
carrying the day."
Mr. Slocum returned home, wonderfully edified, and
with a light heart. Never had he witnessed such wis-
dom ; nor did he dream that old Ilagar was not mis-
tress of all sciences. What sights he had seen. Lucky
stars ; an old witch reading his destinies in a glass of
water.
Every night, for a month or more, found Mr. Slocum
in his aunt's yard, dangling up his long pole, stuck in
his hat. But he could never remember the charmed
words of the hag; so he called aloud to the bat:
" Batty, batty,
Come under my hatty ;
If you don't come soon,
I'll go right home,
And then you'll miss the bacon."
At last, one night, after a long trial, whether Ben's
wishes were the interpreter, or his eyes, sure enough a
bat flew under his hat. That settled the question. Ben
ran to his room, and commenced jumping his broom-
stick again.

410

A few days after, Agnes, much to her surprise,
received a sweet little note from him, handsomely done
up in a beautiful and highly-scented envelope, modestly
asking the privilege of paying his addresses to her.
Bali! that was too much. Agnes was greatly amused
with it, and handed it to Mr. Lovegood, as a curiosity.
The puppy !" he exclaimed. Ah, Mr. Lovegood,
take care !-" The puppy !" "Let me answer that, my
daughter !" He did answer it.
And here we draw the curtain. The Blemmertons
were no more seen in St.   .'s church.

I f
V

411

DOTTINGs BY THE WAYSIDE.

,'i
J
,,
t
; t
+, t
#
t
x
p.
,
a
; c
'    ,  1
_
s

a


i
i
#  ,
t ''.
j
,{
}
4
,t
1i
I
!         t:
8         1

CHAPTER XXXVII.
CLOSING SCENES. PARTING CLOUDS. MERRY CHILDREN.
AUTUMN and winter rolled away. Spring came with
its singing-birds and flowers; March, April, Mr. Heart-
ful has not yet returned. The days seem long and
dreary, to more hearts than one. Mr. Lovegood is
really getting nervous; he fears some accident has
befallen Jonathan. And he half suspects Agnes of
sharing in his suspense. She is at the Rectory, twice a
day, but never asks a question on the subject.
At last, about the middle of May, Mr. Ileartful
touches the soil of his native land, takes a carriage, and
drives first for the Rectory. 0, how his heart throbs,
as he stands once more upon its threshold ; and in a
moment more, he is greeted by his old friend and
Pastor, and they embrace each other.
But what changes a few years had wrought. Mr.
and Mrs. Lovegood looked ten years older to him; his
Pastor's head was already silvered over with age. But
they were happy. And Agnes! Did he ask for her?
Yes. "Is dear Agnes well? Is she happy ?"
" Ah, Jonathan, boy, I know your secret," said Mr.
Lovegood, rubbing his hands. "I reckon it's all right
now. The dear girl was only misguided by her judg-
ment, I think. I have convinced her of that. It is
not that she thinks her fortune makes her any more
worthy of you; or that it ought to make her any more

estimable in the eyes of the world. It was all the result
of an over-sensitiveness. She is older now, and is the
same dear, modest, unassuming Agnes."
Three days rolled away, and Mr. Heartful has not
yet called to see Agnes; and once, when he was at the
Rectory, she being ignorant that he was there, came in,
but they did not meet ; for, when he heard her voice in
the hall, much agitated he passed hastily into an
adjoining room, and went out by a back door.
On the fourth day after his arrival, a servant, in the
morning, placed in the hands of Agnes a brief note.
It read,-
"Will dear Agnes indulge me with her company,
this afternoon, over the same road that in days gone by
we once passed so sadly ?                J. H."
Agnes's heart now beat with new emotions. At the
appointed hour, the carriage drove to her door; and she
was in readiness. Never before had she appeared so
lovely in his eyes. She stood before him the same lit-
tle Agnes, whose mournful eye flashed on his under the
dim-burning lamp; the same Agnes, whom, seven years
before, he had blessed, when she left home for Mrs.
Densmore's school; the same Agnes, to whom, two
and a half years before, he had poured nut his heart,
when she was humble and desolate; the same Agnes,
who had magnanimously refused him her hand, if not
her heart, when again, in his full tide of political glory,
he had proffered it. There she stood before him, the
wealthy heiress, the courted of fawning sycophants, the
loved of the good and virtuous ; the same meek, gentle

L

DOTTING BY THE WAY SIDE.

412

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR;

413


eI
~I

Christian, that she had always been; her radiant coun-
tenance bespeaking the calm joys of her heart, now the
full-grown, matured woman; her dark, lustrous eyes
flashing upon him; her auburn ringlets falling over her
well-formed shoulders.
And he, too, how changed ! Two and a half years
abroad had brought to him their changes; but all for
the better. He was now in the thirty-sixth year of his
age; and, in his absence, he had grown larger and
fairer. In personal attractiveness, also, though always
handsome, he had greatly improved. They stood gazing
upon each other a moment, as if deprived of speech and
motion. At last, turning away his head, he pointed to
the carriage; she approached; he took her hand; nei-
ther spoke a word. Each heart was full. They had
proceeded an hour, neither of them speaking a word;
scarcely noticing even the beautiful scenery which on
all sides greeted the eye. They then turned homeward.
The setting sun was just declining, behind the tall hills
that overhung the beautiful river which swept past the
city. The heavens were bespangled with rosy-tinted
clouds, painted by the sun's parting rays, which, reflect-
ing far and near over heaven and earth, bathed every
thing in beauty.
"Agnes, may I call you dear Agnes ?"  No word
was spoken in reply. Naught was heard but the heart's
pulsations. "Yes: dear Agnes, is not this glorious sun-
set to be a type of our future ?"
.x   *    *    *    *    *    *     *%   *
The clouds have all vanished. Our story is told.
Agnes is living in her own home; and she and her pious
husband are walking, hand in hand, and heart with heart,

414

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

I ~

i

DOTTING BY THE WAYSIDE.

along the path of life. With thankfulness for all past
mercies, morning and evening they bend the knee to-
gether in prayer; and the little ones who prattle about
the house, are "members of Christ, children of God,
and inheritors of the kingdom of heaven;" and are
taught, so soon as they are old enough to understand,
what holy creatures they were made in baptism, what
holy blessings and privileges were then bestowed upon
them. The Church, too, finds in them true and liberal
friends. The poor never call upon them in vain; their
large fortune is devoted to liberal uses ; and the treas-
ures of the Church are increased by their generous
offerings.
And now Mr. Heartful, in playful mood, often tells
Agnes, that she was a naughty thing, to have treated
him so badly. And then, pressing her to his bosom,
and imprinting a kiss upon her pure forehead, he would
say, "I love you three times the more for it. Thus I re-
turn good for evil."
So the Lord doth bless the true of heart.
"Look at the generations of old, and see:
Did ever any trust in the Lord and was confounded?
Or did any abide in His fear, and was forsaken?
Or whom did He ever despise that called upon Him."
EcoLus. ii. 10.

415


Ai
Ii

THE BLEMMERToNs; OR,

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
CONCLUSION.
ONE of those terrible crises in the financial word swept
Mr. John Blemmerton by the board, and wrecked his
splendid fortune, reducing him almost to beggary, in
his declining days.
Of all his wealth, and years of luxury and ostentation,
there scarcely remained to him enough to secure an
humble cottage and ten acres of land, in the suburbs of
the city; and here he and his wife spert the evening of
their days in obscurity, raising vegetables for the market,
and making butter, which one or the other of them took
to town every morning in a mule-cart.
Miss Julia Jasper, at the age of twenty-six, married
Mr. Ben Slocum, who set himself up in a tobacco and
candy shop. Miss Deliah Airmyth and Mr. Slopill,
though never exactly satisfied with each other, kept up
their engagement, till Mr. Blemmerton's magnificent
failure, when, as Miss Deliah said, it was broken off by
mutual consent, and she rejoiced all the days of her life
in the cognomen of an "elderly young lady."
Mr. Slopill cut his cards in another direction, but had
not bettered his condition when last we heard of him.
His whiskers had turned gray, but he regularly dyed
them, when they presented a motley mixture of gray
and sandy-red.
Dr. Riproarer lived long enough to see large num-

416

r

I

DOTTINGS BY        THE WAYSIDE.             41'
bers of his flock forsake Presbyterianism, for the "old
paths." And the Millennium had not come when he
died.
Mr. and Mrs. Friendly died, as they had lived, and
were gathered unto their fathers in peace, in " the com-
munion of the catholic Church." Peace be to their
memory!     It lives after them, in the annals of many
charities, and is embalmed in the hearts of multitudes
of the poor of the earth.
"Let them sleep, let them sleep on,
Till tn' eternal morrow dawn,
And then,-the curtain shall be drawn."
ORAS"AW.
As to Mrs. Fussy, Mrs. Fastidious, and Mrs. Nochurch,
we trace their history no farther;, and we leave them to
their own consciences, with the glowing and thoughtful
lines of the poet, as a fitting comment on their and the
Biemmertons' lives:
"Lord ! with what care Thou dost begirt us round !
Parents first season us. Then Schoolmasters
Deliver us to laws. They send us bound
To rules of reason. Holy Messengers ;
Pulpits and Sundays ; sorrow dogging sin ;
Afflictions sorted ; anguish of all sizes ;
Fine nets and stratagems to catch us in ;
Bibles laid open ; millions of surprises;
Blessings before-hand ; ties of gratefulness ;
The sound of glory ringing in our ears ;
Without our shame, within our consciences ;
Angels and grace ; eternal hopes and fears !
Yet,-all these fences and their whole array
one cunning BOSOM-SIN blows quite away !"
HERBERT.
After the recovery of his wife's health, as heretofore
180


418

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

related, and the withdrawal of the several malcontents,
no more sorrows cast their shadow across the life of Mr.
Lovegood. He and his wife, hand in hand, journeyed
to the tomb, in a life of singular unity and devotion,-
" In regions mild, of calm and serene air,
Above the smoke and stir of this dim spot
Which men call earth."
The Pastor lived to see the children of Jonathan and
Agnes growing up to maturity. He had no children of
his own ; and these little prattlers were recognized as
his grand-children. A loving spectacle it was, to see
the old gentleman, in his declining days, enjoy the
sports of these little innocents as they played "upon his
knees."
"Jonathan," he would say, "it makes me young
again." And grandpa's stories about the birds, and the
chickens, and the fox-hunts, and fishing, caused ll the
little sparkling eyes to be riveted on him.
But he has gone! The tall green grass waves over
his grave. Jonathan and Agnes have removed many
of his sanctified roses from Heartfulville, and planted
them by his grave, in his church-yard, and these bloom
above his narrow home, marking the spot to the passer-
by, where the good man lies. And the little wrens play
about their branches as of old; and the birds sing in
the weeping-willow that bends sorrowfully over his
grave.
But, he is singing "the new song" of the Lamb, in
the Paradise of God.
HOLY, HOLY, HOLY, LORD GOD OF HosTs, HEVEN

5,

I

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

419

AND EARTH ARE FULL OF THY GLORY. GLORY BE TO
THEE, 0 LORD, MOST HI!GH
"The righteous live for evermore,
Their reward also is with Jehovah,
And the care of them is with the Most High.
Therefore, they shall receive the kingdom of glory,
And the diadem of beauty from the hand of Jehovah."
WIsnoM v. 15, 16.
And now, kind reader, who have journeyed with us
thus far, if the moments that we have stolen from slum-
ber, while you have been blessed with angel visitants,
have contributed a gleam  of Hope or Joy to your
heart, or taught you to shun the path of evil, or turned
your heart or feet heavenward, to Him from whom all
good gifts do come be the praise and glory. We lay
our humble offering upon His altar, and beg His
blessing upon it.
And if you desire to know "where our sketch
belongs ?" we answer "Nowhere in particular; every-
where in general." Our whole aim has been to give
sketches of character ; of life as it is. If we have at
times bordered on the sentimental, we can only say, we
have not aimed to be romantic, but true to real life.
We know not that we have anywhere overshot the lines
of life, as they run about us day by day. We have
spent a few leisure hours with the past; sometimes on
one picture, sometimes on another. We cannot say
that we are satisfied with the performance, and there-
fore shall not be disappointed if you are not. Life is a
mingled picture of sunshine and cloud, calm and storm,
spice and wormwood, sweet and bitter, flowers and
withered leaves.


420

I
t i
1
{
1{
CFFC
I
yi
y
!  t
d
i
y
{i
,I
I
-  i
t
f{
d
3
3   3
t!
t3

We write from glimpses and shadows of the past, and
if the light-hearted mingle occasionally with the sober
and the meditative, it is but the blending into one of
the two sides of life, Reality and Poetry, Youth and
Age.
"VEsE a breeze 'mid blossoms straying,
Where Hope clung feeding, like a bee
Both were mine ! Life went a Maying,
With Nature, Hope, and Poesy,
When I was young !
When I was young ! Ah, woful WHEN
Ah, for the change 'twixt now and then !
This breathing house not built with hands,
This body that does me grievous wrong,
O'er airy cliffs and glittering sands
How lightly then it flash' d along:
Like those trim skiffs unknown of yore,
On winding lakes and rivers wide,
That ask no aid of sail or oar,
That fear no spite of wind or tide !
Naught cared this body for wind or weather,
When youth and I lived in't together.
Flowers are lovely ; Love is flower-like ;
Friendship is a sheltering tree,
0, the joys that came down shower-like
Of Friendship, Love, and Liberty,
Ere I was old.
Ere I was old ! Ah, woful ERE!
Which tells me Youth's no longer here !
O Youth ! for years so many and sweet,
Tis known that thou and I were one.
I'll think it but a fond conceit,
It cannot be, that thou art gone!
Thy vesper-bell hath not yet toll'd :
And thou wert aye a masker bold !
What strange disguise hast now put on,
To make-believe that thou art gone ?

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

421

I see these locks in silver slips,
This drooping gait, this alter'd size;
But spring-tide blossoms on thy lips,
And tears take sunshine from thine eyes !
Life is but thought ; so think I will
That youth and I are housemates still !"
COLERIDGE.
'in   'fore, leave me with the past!     I would not for
get the days of my boyhood. There is a magic in the
sentence ; a strange thrilling sensation, which runs
through the heart, makes a trembling on the lips, and
crystals in the eyes.
When I was a boy I
When I was a boy ? Ah, happy when!/
Youth and I were playmates then!
O'er brook and dale, through woody glade
We rov'd along, as light of heart
As mate-lambs playing in the shade,
And fondly thought we ne'er should part !
But youth play'd truant on a day,
And left me hapless and forlorn:
Alone I journey'd o'er the way,
Mourning the while that Youth was gone,
And I left mateless and alone !
And art thou gone, my sweet mate-fellow,
In the tug of life and strife,
Wilt not return in Autumn, mellow,
To soothe the weary eve of life?
Ah, once a man, but twice a boy !
Such is the lot of all below,
Who live till life becomes a toy,
And then how gladly would they go !
But, Youth comes back with mimic smile,
And plays with Age a little while:
Then Age grows young, and smiles at Youth,
And thinks, meantime, in very truth,
That Youth and he again are one,
A moment more, and both are gone!I

THE BLEMMERTONS; OR,

Y
I
3
1
1
r
i
I
{
{
t
3
1
i
f
J
4
i
7
W
i
1


422     TIE BLEMMERTONs; OR,

DOTTINGS BY THE WAYSIDE.

Ah, we all have a treasure in the past. We love to
meditate upon it. It opens the heart's fountains. It
draws us away from earth. It sets us on our heaven-
ward journey. The eye opens upon the landscape, and
the sunlight paints it on the retina, as no painter can
paint it on the canvas, drawing into so narrow a com-
pass the most extended and beautiful view. To see the
Lord's Prayer copied perfectly on the size of a (lime,
is a rare sight, a beautiful piece of art; but, 0 what a
canvas is the little eye, and what a painter the sun-
lillt!
And yet, how compares this with the light of other
days, which prints upon the memory lines, ineffaceable,
of all we have ever seen, or heard, or done? What
was it but the land of the Almighty, that took from
the eye, and the ear, and the thoughts, so many pic-
tures of all that ever passed before us or within us in
life, and traced them on the memory never to be blot-
ted out.
So it is, our young days come back to us as we
pass down the vale of life. So it is, all the past will
be revealed before us, in the pages of memory, in the,
world to come. What a glowing palimpsest, as De
Quincey writes, is the memory ! If we have assisted.
you, reader, in. "unrolling some leaves" of your mem-
ory, or in looking into the book of life, our work is
done.
Life runs in crooked paths here, there, everywhere,
like the erratic volitations of the bird on the wing; and,
not often like the busy bee, which, when freighted with
his sweets, makes a straight line for his hive, nor de-
viates from it, except for intervening objects, round

423

which he passes, and falls into the same straight line
again, then wings his way onward, right on. So we
have written, following the bird on the wing, because he
is a type of life as it is.
And here, with a grateful heart, we bid you FARE-
WELL, joining in the song due from all flesh unto the
Father, Redeemer, and Sanctifier of our spirits:
SANOTUs, SANOTUS, SANOTUs, DOMINUS DETIS ONiiro-
TENS, QUI FRUIT, QUI EsT, ET QUI VENTURUS EST.
THE END.


DANA AND COM
No, 381 BROADWAY, NEW-Y
($Sign of the Imperial Folio Bible),
HAVE FOR SALEl-
Oxford University Editions.
They have just published
Two Superior Editions of
16mo. and 24mo.
Styles and Prices as follows
16mo.
(1) Turkey Morocco, super extra, antique or flexible,1..
(2) The same, with clasp..  ...................
(3) Turkey Morocco, (Second Style,)........... ..
(4) The same, with clasp..........   ...........
(5) French Morocco...   ...............
(6) Roan...................
(7) Roan.........      ................
NEW sTYLES.
(9) Calf Antique, super extra..... .............
(10) The same, with clasp....  .................
24mo.
(1) Turkey Morocco, super extra, antique or flexible,L.
(2) The same, with clasp.......    ............
(3) Turkey Morocco (Second Style,)..................
(4) The same, with clasp.............   ..
(5) French Morocco    ..........................
(0) Roan......        ...............
(7) Roan..................
(8) Roan       ..............................
NEW STYLES.
(9) Calf Antique, super extra....................
(10) The same, with clasp...................... ...
ii                                                                                 irThese Editions are printed in a si
and excel other editions, of same gener
size of typo of the Psalms and Hymns,

PANY,
ORE,
gilt edges... $2.50
...  .  . ..  3.00
gilt edges.... 1.75
... . .  . . . 2.25
gilt edges.... 1.25
gilt edges.... 1.12
red edges.... 1.00
marble edges    $8
red edges.... 2.50
....,..  3.00
gilt edges.... $2.00
2.50
gilt edges .. 1.25
... ..   ..    1.75
gilt edges .... 1.00
gilt edges....  80J
red edges....   75
marble edges    63
red edges.... 2.00
.~2.50
...............2.750,f
superior manner,
al style, in    the

7

I


Publications of Dana and Compeany.
HEART AND HOME TRUTHS. - By the Rev. R.
UI1ITTNGIAM , JR. 12mno., 188 pages.    Price, 75 cents.
Heart and Home Truths is the modest title of a work, in which will
be found much more than the average of deep thought, and true ten-
der feeling. From the contemplation of the most familiar features
of natural things, the nature of Truth is beautifully illustrated, and
the modes by which it is to be attained are shown to be in the closest
analogy with the other works of Him, who hath composed in one
Spirit, both the Book of Nature and the Book of Revelation. Its
doctrinal tone is high and uncompromising, though altogether devoid
of harshness; and the drapery of style is as rich with the embroidery
of fancy and a glowing imagination, as the glorious face of nature it-
self can make it. This unpretending work will make a way for the
Truth in the minds of many, upon whom a more didactic manner
would be thrown away.                   .    church Journal.
THE END OF CONTROVERSY, CONTROVERTED.
-B the Rlt. Rev. JOHN1 I. HoPKINs, D.D., Bishop of Ver-
mont.   In two vols.  12no., 918 pages.      Price, $200.
The well-known work of the Romish Bishop, Milner, entitled, "The
End of Controversy," was recommended some years ago by the Romish
Bishop Kenrick, to all our Bishops, as a book, the perusal of which
would bring them into the Romish Church; a movement which he
exhorted them to take soon, lest their people should all go before them,
and leave them alone. That work is still extensively circulated
throughout all this country, and many earnest Protestants have long
desired a work which might be a popular as well as a conclusive
reply. This want is now supplied. Milner is plausible, ingenious,
bold, unscrupulous, and withal readable. The difficulty has been
hitherto, not to answer the book-for that has been done again and
again-but to answer it in such a way as would enable them to meet
the enemy upon his own ground. The well-known familiarity of the
Bishop of Vermont with every phase of the Romish controversy, his
thorough learning, clear reasoning, and brilliant and effective style,
have all contributed to make this one of the most successful of his
contributions to the cause of Truth. And the present position of the
controversy with Rome, and the keenness with which public attention
is aroused to meet her terrible aggressions, will give occasion for the
circulation of works like this, which, without ever compromising or
ignoring the truth still remaining in the midst of corruption, yet,
throughout, maintains the most vigorous and triumphant opposition
to the errors of Rome.
17

Publications of .Dana and Company.

STEPS TO THE ALTAR, WITH A COMPANION TO
THE ALTAR.-A new edition; adapted to use in the
United States of America.   lSmo. 140 pages.
.fuslin. Price, 25 cents.
Also a cheap edition in paper at $1.50 per dozen.
At once the token and the means, if God permit, of Christian con-
munon with brethren in a far-distant land, it is offered to the devout
Churchman of America, with the full knowledge and sanction of the
author. It will be found in accordance with the eleventh English edi
tion, such alterations only having been introduced as were found
necessary to make it correspond with the Book of Common Prayer
according to the use of the Church in the United States.
TESTIMONY OF SCRIPTURE to the Teaching of the
Church on Holy Baptism-(A new Edition of the -Tract
already well known under the title of "The Sacrament of
Responsibility.")  i2no., 65 pages.   $10.00 per hundred.
An admirable summary of the teaching of Holy Scripture and
the Church on the subject of Baptism, with especial reference to the
case of Infants. Every text in the Bible relating to the subject is
carefully examined, and the teaching of Inspiration is brought out
fully by comparing text with text. The grace conferred in Baptism
is conclusively proved, while at the same time it is clearly shown to
be a different thing from conversion, with which it is often confounded.
The peculiar responsibility of every baptized person, for the right
use of the grace in this !Sacrament given, is earnestly pressed as one
of the highest incitements to the Christian life.1 The general teach-
ings of this book have been approved by more than twenty of the
Bishops of the Church.
THE    SACERDOTAL TITHE,-B             ADAM TOWNLEYPres-
byter of the Diocese of Toronto, . W. 1Smo., 95 pages.
Price, 25 cents.
Christ dishonored, His Priesthood beggared, His truth trampled
upon, and His redeemed ones perishing! Here is my apology for
daring to bring so bitterly unpopular a subject as the Christian duty
of paying Ministerial Tithes, before covetous disciples; and a flesh-
loving generation. I would clear my own soul; and if the grace be
vouchsafed me, awaken a fear amongst the faithful, to the awful con-
sequences of a "Moth-eaten" Church. Christ has himself shown us
the remedy. " His seed is in herself." May this be the day of His
power, in which His people shall "be made willing" to see and to
do their duty;,at length bringing their Tithes and offerings abun-
dantly unto Him !-Prefce.
19


Publications of Dana and Company.
T HE   NIGHTINGALE.- A           Tale of the Russian War
Forty  Years Ago - Beautiully Illustrated.    iSmo., 96
pages.                             Muslin. Price, 31 cents.
Paper covers, 16 cents.
The Nightingale, or A Kind Act is Never Lost, is a pleasant little
Tale, from the German of Christopher Schmid. The incidents are
laid in the Russian war, forty years ago, and among the many warm
sympathizers with Russia now abounding among us, this interesting
little story will be welcomed with more than common zest. It is
intended for children, and teaches a moral of the law of kindness-
not by tagging the moral to the end of the story, but by making it
*the living principle which gives life to the whole. It is handsomely
gotten up, with several spirited wood-cuts, printed in tint.
Church Journal.
This is a beautiful story, from the German of Christoph Schmid,
exquisitely told, about a poor lad who wanted to be a carriage-maker,
and was befriended by a great lady, and learned his trade, and came
to affluence and power, and saved the life of the son of his benefac-
tress. The moral is happily pointed, and the story, though simple in
its plot, attracts great interest by its touches of sentiment and pathos.
Protestant Chkurchman.
A. pretty story beautifully published.  Hartford Daily Courant.
A pleasant little narrative. *  ** * It is beautifully and
suitably illustrated.                     Troy Daily Whig.
This is a sweet and instructive tale, frem one of the most popular
German writers, and is done into English by a competent hand.
The Calendar.
THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED. --Arranged as Sup-
plementary to the Church Catechism.     32mo., 16 pages,
for the Pocket.                  Price, $4.00 per hundred.
An admirable and comprehensive summary, in which the chief
subjects of additional catechetical instruction are most conveniently
grouped, so as best to aid the youthful memory.

Publications of Dana and Company.
UNISON     OF   THE     LITURGY.       From   Advent to Ash-
Wednesday.    By ARcMa GIFFORD, A. M.          12mo. 328
pages.                                        Price, $1.00.
It is pleasing to see a mind which has been long given to the duties
of a severe profession, turning thus for relief and diversion into the
brighter field of theological literature. Mr. Gifford has already gained
a distinction in New Jersey by several legal works, which have had
the patronage of our Legislature, and now we have another volume
from his pen, intended, as it were, for a dutiful offering to his
Church.
The design of the work is to unfold and illustrate the more pro
found and un apparent excellencies of that most elaborate of all pro-
ductions, the Episcopal Liturgy. Although there may be a difference
of opinion as to the utility of this manual of devotional formularies,
yet no one can fail to admire it as an testhetical composition. The
manner in which it has been arranged and ordered is most strikingly
beautiful. It is a frame filled with moveable pieces. On no two
occasions of its use does it appear exactly alike, but constantly
assunes new combinations with the progressive sentiment of the
ecclesiastical year. These ever-changing portions within this unalter-
able framework are wholly of a Scriptural character. For every
Sunday, two chapters are selected from the Old Testament, and two
from the New, called the " Lessons;" and two brief passages, chosen
for their weighty and emphatic import, called the "Epistle" and the
"Gospel," are appropriately prefixed by a comprehensive and leading
prayer, whose substance has been gathered out of them, called the
"Collect."  But this is not merely a superficial arrangement: an aim
and a principle underlies it all. Every Sunday and Holy-day has an
especial subject assigned to it, either doctrinal or preceptive, which
runs through and dictates all these variations of the Service. Thus in
every week the Scriptures are made, by these manifold citations from
them, to cluster around some central thought and flash their light
uponl it.
It is this which has furnished the design of Mr. Gifford's book.
The Prayer-Book has had many commentators, all of whom have
alluded to the nearly-inspired wisdom of those who put it together.
The further they penetrate it the more the y seem to discover the
long-forgotten ideal and matured plan ont of which it grew. The
8

22


.

Publications of Dana and Company.
remarkable fact of an intentional unison of its apparently diverse
parts, has only been partially observed, and it has been left to Mr.
Gifford to discover and prove in every case the beautiful appositeness
of all to one nucleus idea. This, under the heading of each Sunday,
he distinctly sets forth, and then traces its radiations first through the
Collect, then through the Epistle, then through the Gospel, then
through all the Lessons, to its remoter scintillations in the Catech ism
and the Articles of Religion.,
Such is the fine conception around which the above work has
grown. The service of each Sunday is analyzed and outlined-all the
information that could be compressed into a small space is given, and
a rich variety of association instantly suggested to the devout wor-
shipper. Probably no one could have been found better fitted for
such a task than Mr. Gifford, and his cultivated taste and wide range
of study have been now so successfully called into requisition that
we find here the thoughts and beauties of many different writers
blended about his own design in a many-hued mosaic.
It is at once a noble eulogy upon the Liturgy, and a practical standard
guide to its use. In this latter, its real purpose, it most admirably
succeeds. The moral or spirit of each day being fully set forth, the
attention is sustained and devotion quickened by the new colors and
the defined interest thus thrown over the Service as it proceeds. A
Liturgy is liable to abuse if people may go blindly and desultorily
through it, but here the clue of every recurring service is seized and
industriously pursued for them. One prominent topic is seen to draw
its line of light round all its parts, and bind them together as with
a girdle of gold.
We have been glad to devote more than usual space to the notice
of this work, because it is the production of one of our townsmen.
A few specimen pages appeared about a year ago, which received the
approbation of many of the most distinguished men in the Episcopal
Church, and the author, thus encouraged, has put forth the present
handsome volume, designing to follow it by another, thus completing
the circle of the year.               Newark Daily Advertistr.
The work will do good in two ways: first, by furnishing valuable,
practical matter for private reading and-instruction; and secondly,;
by dissipating the mist which some writers have conjured up, in their
effo-ts to show that the Prayer Book was a piece of patch-work,
with an Arminian or a Popish Liturgy, and Calvinistic Articles ; than
which, no fancy could be more foolish or futile. Calendar.
9

Publications of Dana and Company.
SERMONS FOR THE TIMES. By the Rev. CHARLES
KINGSLEY, Author of "Village Sermons," "Alton Locke,"
&amp;c.   12mo,, 360 pages.                     Price, 75 cents.
These Sermons are Kingsley all over; deep, daring, dashing, pene.
rating, vigorous. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
It strikes us as being a kind of preaching that we want just nov
-that it is indeed preaching "for the times;" in character with
the times, and, therefore, adapted for the times: yet, not in any
spirit of compromise with the world therein, but rather combating
the spirit of the world with the Spirit of Christ, in a matter-of-
fact way. We think, therefore, that the Clergy may find some use-
ful hints in the pages of this volume, while the Laity may peruse
them with practical advantage.                    Churchman.
These are remarkable Sermons, as were those of his former volume.
They are models of a plain and direct style, sparkling with forcible
allusions and applications. They illustrate the teaching of our Cate-
chism to a considerable extent, and often in the happiest manner,
regarding it as a symbol of Catholic truth. They are worth reading
for their-power and demonstrations of most important doctrines, little
heeded in these times, when the Puritan and Sectarian.spirit seeks to
prevail.                                  Banner of the Cross.
This is a reprint of one of the most characteristic, if not one of the
most extraordinary volumes of the day, which no one can read with-
out interest, and few without profit. There is something striking, not
to say startling, about everything the author says; and yet the lan-
guage is so simple and appropriate, as to be perfectly intelligible to
every one.                                          Calendar-
A capital volume it is-his style seems to gain in directness, crisp-
ness, vigor, and moment m, as he grows older. It is as clear as Eng-
ish can be made. A healthy common sense rules throughout. * *
*  *  * 4*In our day when muddy heads do so greatly abound, a.
volume of such sturdy, pungent, powerful and illuminating Saxon, is
of the highest worth.                         Church Journal.
They are incomparable Sermons for Lay-reading.
10

i°
t
i
Z
t i
i  B
firit

c}

i
i
{5
f 1
f
{


Pulications of Dana and Company.
IMPRESSIONS OF ENGLAND. By the Rev. A. CLEVE-

LAND COXE. 12mo., 340 pages.

Price, l.

The Rev. A. Cleveland Coxe has done a great favor to the early
Subscribers of the Church Journal, by collecting and publishing in a
volume, the Impressions of England, which were so prominent and
popular a feature of our paper during nearly the first year of its
existence. To those early subscribers of ours, nothing beyond the
bare announcement of the publication need be said, to recal the vivid
memory of those delightful letters. But, for the sake of the more
than three thousand that have been added since, we would say, that
the volume, as a whole, is even more attractive, than were the weekly
instalments then so keenly enjoyed. Mr. Coxe's local knowledge of
England, even before he landed on its shores, was extraordinary ; and
it has enabled him to stock his pages with a richness, fulness and
variety of allusion, which perpetually kindles new interest. His
faculties of observation are more than commonly keen ; and his com-
mand of language is equally graphic and rigorous. Singular good
fortune seems to have attended him also. Lucky chances, such as
common tourists may light on one or two, seem to have been showered
on him at every turn. Incidents that have already become historic,
are stamped, with freshest life, on every portion of the work. Again,
as if before our eyes, Lord John Russell figures in the disgraceful and
contemptible mad farce of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill. Again we
see the Iron Duke bowing in lowly worship in the Chapel Royal of
St. James. Again we wander under the vast long-drawn, and diaphan-
ous expanse of the Crystal Palace. Again we rove from Cathedrals
to Churches, and Colleges, and ruined Abbeys, and sequestered ham-
lets, and breathe the pure rural air of living England, yet scented
with the rich aroma of a glorious past. The essential unity of the
two nations is ever uppermost in Mr. Coxe's mind ; yet never, even in
the Royal presence, does he forget his native Republicanism. His
heart beats true and strong for the freedom and purity of the Reform-
ation, and against the slavish corruptions of Rome; yet yearns,
with deepest love, towards everything rightly belonging to our dear
Mother the Church; and his trumpet rings out clear, with no uncer-
tain note, against all who would mar her full proportion of "the
beauty of holiness." In short, we are with the author, as it were
personally, from the beginning to the end of the volume.: and when
we lay it down, it is with an instinctive asking-" Shall we never
travel with this charming companion again $"  Church Journal.
11

Publications of Dana and Compan{.
IMPRESSIONS OF ENGLAND. By the Rev. A. CLEVE-
LAND COXE.     12rn., 340 pages.                  Price, $1.
American Churchmen will find this the most delightful account of
a visit to our mother country and mother Church, that has ever
appeared. It was made in an interesting and memorable year, 1851;
and the reputation which had preceded the author as a poet, scholar,
and clergyman, procured for him at once a peculiarly cordial recep-
tion, and such an intimate access to the various phases of English
society, as is rarely enjoyed by American travellers. Thus supplied
with an unusual richness of material, he has produced a volume
which will be read with universal interest and pleasure in both
countries.                                Banner of the Cross.
Though these sketches are descriptive of subjects with which we
are all more or less familiar, yet it is both entertaining and instructive
to trace the impressions received by a man of talent, education and
refinement, who has avoided the common places of travel, and taken
no delight in spying out the miseries of the land, but rather exhibited
those phases of society, and higher points of English civilization,
which give character and dignity to the English nation.
Protestant Churchman.
Books of travel and sojourn in England, have been so common,
that we feel almost reluctant to take up a new work of this descrip-
tion; but we were agreeably disappointed in the volume before us.
Mr. Coxe went abroad with many advantages. A Clergyman of the
Church of England, with no mean reputation as a Christian poet:
with many old correspondents of clerical and social repute "in the
land whither he went," and to whom, of course, he was accredited;
and, moreover, with a determination not to be a one-sided observer,
or a growling commentator; .with all these advantages, it is not sur-
prising that he "enjoyed himself;" and that he does not hesitate to
say so, on all occasions, and in the most enthusiastic terms.
The K.nickerbocker Monthly Magazine.
These agreeable sketches, which appeared originally in the columns
of the New York Church Journal, are now presented to the readers
in a revised and connected form.
They do not embrace the tedious routine of "books of travel"-
life at hotels, travelling in stage coaches or by rail, dimensions of
public buildings, etc., etc.,-all of which have been given an hundred
times before in every diversity of form,-but rather give us pictures
of English society, customs, men, manners, and events, embracing, as
the author justly claims, a connected history of Great'Britain for the
year 1851, with readable sketches of many of its most prominent
men-Whigs and Tories.                       Troy Dai4, Whigq.
12

r
a_
z;
.
', 


11

Publications of Dana and Company.
OU R   CHURCH      MUSIC.--A Book for Pastors and People.
By RICHARD STORRS WILLIS.       12mo., 138 pages.5
Price, 50 cents.
The Church has a good right to look to Mr. Richard S. Willis, as
being, perhaps, of all our youthful native musicians, the one of whom
she may expect the most true hearted and efficient service. His train-
ing, however scientific, has not been that which would qualify him
the most readily for usefulness in this field: but there is an earnest
devotion of spirit, a reaching forth after the deep and the true, a
growing strength and manliness, exercised and made firm by a steady
industry, which promise the best results. He has just issued a neat
little volume on Our Church Music, a Book for Pastors and People,
which is the best and most thoughtful practical essay that has for a
long time appeared among us.                  Church Journal.
Were it not for the copyright on this admirable book, we should
be compelled to transfer large portions of itto our pages. As it is,
we hope to give, hereafter, some specimens of it, and in the mean
time, cordially recommend it for its interest and the usefulness of its
suggestions.                               Episcopal Recorder.
Many of the articles collected in this pleasant and thoughtful
volume have been already published in our columns ; and we are glad
to know that they have attracted that attention among our readers
which they deserve. The series is now completed, by the addition of
others, not so well adapted to a journal like this, because requiring
diagrams, etc., to illustrate them, but harmonious with those in tone
and teaching, and equally rich in useful suggestions. Mr. Willis has
brought the finest musical cultivation of Europe to assist him in his
task, but has never allowed his artistic taste and knowledge to over-
lay and smother his native good sense, or his instinctive perception
of what is demanded in true church music. We have found his
writings on this subject instructive and quickening; the more so, per-
haps, because our own half-formed thoughts have often been brought
back to us by him, more fully and clearly expressed than they had
been to ourselves, and clothed with the authority that belongs to one
who is so rapidly becoming a recognised Master in his chosen depart--
ment.                                            Independent.
18

I

s,
fry.
3
:
cy
,
,
S

Publications of Dana and Company.
OUR    CHURCH      MUSIC.--A    Book for Pastors and People.
By- RICHARD STORRS WILLIS. 1 2o., 138 pdges.
Price, 50 cents.
Mr. Willis in this work considers church music mainly as a part of
worship, which is its true and original design, and not as a mere en-
tertainment interposed between the graver offices of devotion and in-
struction. He points out the objections to the common modes of conduct
ing church music, stating them with a good deal of force and vivacity.
* *  *  Mr. Willis thinks that to make our music what it ought
to be, " we need to simplify the congregational style and amplify the
choir style." He gives some practical suggestions, well worthy of
consideration, respecting the singing of children in churches, the
position of the choir and organ, the importance of clergymen possess-
ing s&amp;ome knowledge of music as an art, and the training of the youth
of a congregation in singing. In a second part of his treatise, Mr.
Willis considers what subjects are proper for hymns, the adaptation
of hymns to music, the treatment of words, the expression given to
them in singing, and the introduction of what he calls "secular
efforts" in church music. His views on all these subjects bear witness
to his fine taste and careful study of the subject. Mr. Willis has
given to both the scientific and practical part of music the study of
years, and is entitled to speak on the subject with a tone of decision.
New York Evening Post.
The author is possessed of a profound scientific musical education,
perfected in the best schools in Europe. Since his return home he'
has been engaged in editing the Musical World, a paper which has
done more than all other publications together to diffuse and popu-
larize a correct musical taste in this country. His journal is not con-
fined, however, to musical criticism, but comprehends also every other
branch of the Fine Arts, and is characterized by candid and intelligent
exposition and elegant discussion. Mr. Willis has given much atten-
tion to Church Music, and the just views so ably and earnestly
enforced in the Musical World, are beginning to produce a practical
impression that exhibits itself extensively in improvements introduced
into that department of public worship. These he has embodied into
a volume bearing the title "Our Church Music: a book for Pastors
-and People." It is full of interest to the pastor, the choir, and the
congregation.                   New York Journal of Comnmerce.
14A


Publications of Dana and Company.
OUR    CHURCH      MUSIC.-A Book for Pastors and People.
By RICHARD STORRs WILLIS. l2no., 138 pages.
Price, 50 cents.
If Dana &amp; Co. can always find as good books to publish as this and
the Rev. Mr. Coxe's, noticed last week, we think they will not fail of
readers or purchasers. For our own part, we are free to confess that
we rarely meet with a book that pleases us so well as this about Church
Music. It is characterised by a thorough knowledge of the subject, a
nice appreciation of the fitness of things, if not by a deep religious
feeling-all ruled and governed by sound common sense. The perusal
of this work will be useful to all, and instructive to the mass of
readers. Clergymen, Choristers, Choirs, and Congregations, are all
instructed, guided and assisted in their several relations to the musical
worship of the Church. We commend it to the popularity it so richly
deserves.                                           Calendar.
Could every clergyman, every church warden and vestryman, every
deacon and every elder, every chorister and every organist, in fact,
every worshipper in every church in the laid, be induced to read this
book thoughtfully and act on it sensibly when it is read, a much
needed reform in our Church Music would soon be begun and com-
pleted. Mr. Willis opens his subject by taking his reader into a now-
a-day church and showing him-what is too true-that with a very
few exceptions, no one of those present during the musical acts of de-
votion, is really and at heart engaged in them; and the problem
which he proposes to himself, and succeeds in solving, is, how every
person in every congregation may be made, during the singing, an in-
telligent worshipper. This he does in the course of an examination
of the different styles of singing, of conducting choirs and placing
organs and choir galleries, and above all, by submitting the versified
Psalms and Hymns in general use, to a searching and most destructive
criticism. He maintains, and with a union of resthetic discrimina-
tion and common sense, which is invincible, that most of these from
their unemotional character, are absolutely worthless for the purpose
of worship, and entirely unfitted to music as the vehicle of expression.
Rarely do good taste, culture, sound judgment and independence ap.
pear so blent as in the pages of this little volume, the literary merit
of which is not the least of its claims upon attention; it abounds in
true philosophical criticisms of both music and mn. Those wh~o
control our Church Music must either conform to the views set forth
by Mr. Willis. or go on in blind, or open-eyed irreverence and absurdity.
.ew York Courier and Enquirer.
15

F
1
Y
i
1


  
             
         
       
   
