
    ----CITATION----
        Schiller, Edward.. Cherry Blossom; or, "Love Thy Neighbor as Thyself" .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7706
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Cherry Blossom; or, "Love thy neighbor as thyself" 
            
                 CHERRY BLOSSOM; OR, "LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF."    CHERRY BLOSSOM; OR, "LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF." BY EDWARD SCHILLER. ROBEBT  .      -U J ,Vi-r 1?BLIHER, 13 FRANKFORT STREET.    ETRIBID according to Act of Congresse, In the year 1860, by EDWARD SCHLLER, In the Clerk's Ofiee of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.  W. H. Tmoi, Printer and St eotyper,    I CHERRY     BLOSSOM. CHAPTER I. THAT Charles Blossom was a bond-fide inhabitant of Gotham, of long residence, that most sober chroni- cler of men, the "City Directory," attested for a number of years. From its brief statement, any one desirous of knowing, might have learned that Charles Blossom was a merchant, that his place of business was at No. 98 Pearl street, and that his private resi- dence was out on the Bloomingdale Road. But the compiler of the Directory, being perhaps ignorant of other information concerning the said Charles Blossom, or not choosing to tell anything more than was his business to'publish, has failed to enlighten the'world any further about the gentlenman men- tioned. Not that Charles Blossom ever did any extraordi- 5   6     a E OH ERRY BLOSSOM. nary feat, by which he deserved having his name handed down to posterity, not that he had distin- guished himself at the council-board of the nation, or went to the wars, and performed brave deeds on the field of battle. Far from it. Though a strong admirer of Mr. Clay, and not averse to loosen his purse-strings, when the Whig General Committee made an appeal to the down-town merchants to save the party and carry an election, Mr. Blossom had not taken any active part in politics, had not even con- sented to become a candidate for Alderman of his ward, and was only a high private in the Washing- ton Guards. The utmost limit of his ambition had  been, to become a successful merchant, and, after having made enough money, to retire from busi- ness. Thus it will be seen that all Charles Blossom might claim to have done, would not have entitled him to a niche in the Walhalla of Fame. Still he was a true type of the genuine New-Yorker, who is born, lives and dies amidst the din of business, and to whom the "City" becomes the world. The reverence and love displayed by this class of mortals toward the piles of stones and bricks on Manhattan Island, borders almost on devotion. Though the Gothamite may leave his island city,   H ERRB,Y BLO S 6SOM.      7 her image is ever present to his mind. The new town which he lays out in tie far test, has its avenues, its Broadway and a Bowery. The Signs of the New York Hotel, the New York Saloon, the New York Emporium and the' New York Clothing Store, are the most prominent among the sign- boards. The little country newspaper heralds forth in conspicuous letters the "Arrival of Goods, direct from New York," as conclusive proof of the excel- . lence of the merchandise. Mr. Blossom was not a bad representative of this class. Though he prided himself on "having seen the world," there seemed to be, in his estimation, no place in any part of the globe, to be compared to his native city. Talk to him of London and Paris, and he would demonstrate to his own satis- faction, that neither of these two European capitals could come up to the standard of excellence pos- sessed by the American Metropolis. Mrs. Charles Blossom was not behind her husband in city pride, as certainly became her, for she was to the "manor born " and a descendant of the old Knickerbockers, --who had settled in New Amsterdam many years be- fore Governor Stuyvesant had come to the colony from the West Indies. The Blossoms were, at the   8     CHEERRY BLOSSOM. time this history opens, in the prime of life--that ,. Mr. Blossom was thirty-eight years old, while his wife acknowledged to having seen twenty-nine summers pass over her head. Save that they were both allowed to be comely people, who were not afflicted with any bodily ill, who neither squinted nor had red hair, no particular mention need be made of the worthy couple's personal appearance. Socially, their standing was excellent. Both Mr. and Mrs. Blossom had a large circle of friends, who were always loud in their praise. Charlotte, their only child, or Cherry, as she was always called, was allowed by the whole neighbor- hood to be the greatest little romp in the city. Wise mothers shook their heads gravely, and won- dered whatever would become of a girl who was allowed to play in the streets with the boys, and was even permitted to skate on' the ice. Several of these anxious matrons even made so bold as to hint their misgivings to Mrs. Blossom, while at the same time pointing out to that lady tA necessity of keeping girls at home, which was the true place for them. Mrs. Blossom, as a matter of course, was duly grateful at the advice given to her by older and CesY   C HERRY BLOSSOM.        9, more experienced mothers, still she could see no fault in Cherry's snow-balling with the boys, or even in skating with them on the ice. "Cherry is a good child," she would always end the conversa- tion with, after hearing the catalogue of grievances, and Mrs. Blossom was certainly right in saying so. The little romp was a true-hearted girl, with a stock of innate good sense rarely displayed by one of tender years. She did not pester the servants, was never cross or rude, and in her little bosom throbbed as kind a heart as was ever possessed by any philan- thropist. Even the lame beggar-boy, when he came to her father's door for the weekly alms Cherry handed to him, seemed to take more pleasure in the manner in which she bestowed the gift than in the gift itself, and the way he uttered his "God bless you, miss," showed that his heart meant what his lips brought forth. With three such spirits, the house on the Blogyn- ingdale Road could not fail to be a happy home, a home where, though not forgetful of the outward world, its inmates live cheerfully and contented, every member of the family striving to make life agreeable and pleasant to the others. It would not do to give a catalogue raisonne of all their relations, 1:   10     OHERRY B LOSSOM. since the Heraldic College might object to this undue interference with its duties, nor will the presence of third, fourth, fifth, or even more dis- tantly related cousins be needed in the following pages. But it is absolutely necessary that we men- tion Mr. John Blossom, a brother of Mr. Blossom, and who was known in the city as a prominent man on Wall street. On the part of Mrs. Blossom, it is also necessary to state that she hadanephew and a niece, children of her elder sister, hom we will introduce as Henry and Cora Lee.( The two had been orphans for some years, and had been under the guardianship of Mr. Timbleton Lee, their father's brother, a crusty old bachelor, who had been advised by his physician, on the 19th day of April, 18-, to put his house in order, as he, the physician, honestly believed that his patient was beyond the help of physic. 1 '                      :I'I   i. CHAPTER II. YES, Timbleton Lee was about to die. Over fifty years had he been a wanderer on earth, and his soul was now preparing to leave the body, to go- where? It is a question hard to answer amid the conflicting opinions entertained by the theologians of all races and of all times. A problem it is, un- solved as yet by any of the numerous philosophers and doctors of divinity, of whom history tells, since the days of Adam. The Greeks believed in their Hades, with its Tartarus and its Elysium, which could be reached by paying to old Charon, the ferryman, an obolus. The followers of the Prophet of Mecca and Medina have a Paradise, where none but Moslems are permitted to enter. The Lama worshippers of Thibet believe in a transmigration of souls from one body to another; while last, but not least, the Christian has his heaven and his hell. Of the first-mentioned of these localities but little is known, though Dante and Milton have tried their 31   12-' :   HERRY BLOSSOMo. best to give an adequte description of its splendors'; but what poor deni en of civilized Europe and America-is it who has not heard of hell, its devil,  his imps, the unquenching fre of purgatory? Will Timbleton's soul be condemned to undergo the' purifying fire of purgatory, or beallowed at once to enter the portals of heaven? Where will his soul go to? For we know that his body is to be inclosed in a highly polished mahogany coffin, adorned with the silver plate, which tells to the subterranean world Timbleton's full name and age, and to be car- ried to Greenwood Cemetery, to be eaten up by worms at their leisure. What a choice morsel these ravenous inhabitants of the City of the Dead will have, when the green turf shall close over poor  i Timbleton's body I for has he not been a rich man, a Virginian by birth, a bond fide F F.V., and a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity to boot?  But let us not forget that Timbleton Lee has a soul to save, since even the clergyman at his bed-  side assures him of the fact, and prays to the  Almighty Father on high that the poor dying sin- ner's sol may be saved. Timbleton's hope for sal- : vation is evidently very doubtful, for the clergyman  prays long and loud in order to be successful. ,. ' s   CHERRY BLOSSOM.  After almost despairing of the task, a sudden smile might have been, seen to illuminate the reverend gentleman's countenance. He' has evidently at last discovered a way to manage the saving pro- cess, and he is about to impart it to poor Timbleton, on whose brow the perspiration of agony has col- lected in large drops, at hearing of the terrors of hell, of the unquenching fire of purgatory, of Satan and his dominion, where Timbleton has been as- sured that his soul will certainly go, provided he does not make ample atonement while there is yet life in his body. "And you think I can be saved!" exclaimed the bewildered and already half-dead applicant for divine mercy. "How?" "By doing good hereafter with what you can enjoy no longer." "How shall I do this?" asked Timbleton. "Myy poor brother, answered the clergyman, "the Church of God needs ministers; many youths are prevented from devoting themselves to the ser- vice of the Gospel, because they are unable to pro- secute their studies. Our Church needs an institu- tion where we may be able to receive these poor youths. Now, dear brother "-here the clergyman   "    C H tERRY B LO S S M. fell on his knees at the bedside of the patient-"I pray you, as you value your salvation, aid the Church of God, and you will be rewarded a hun- dred fold. Leave those earthly possessions, which can be of no use to you in the world, to come, to further the interests of the Church of God on earth. By doing so you will be the cause of doing good hereafter evermore. "But Harry and Cora, my brother's children, are poor, and I promised their father in his dying mo- ments not to forget them." "They are both young and healthy," answered the minister. 'Riches may make them forgetful of their duty to God. Leave to each of them a moderate legacy, and in after life they will have reason to rejoice at the blessings of Providence." "Alas, my brother," gasped Timbleton, " it is too late. I feel that death is coming." "It is not yet too late, my brother. A stroke of the pen will suffice. I have already provided the necessary writings," exclaims the spiritual consoler, almost fiercely; and awing the weak-minded invalid by his' gestures and speech, he takes a paper out of his pocket, puts a pen into the dying man's hand, and calls in a brother soul-saver, who has been wait-   Ch II E Y BLOSSO M.  ing in the next room, to witness the signing of the will. The work is hard, for the fingers can scarcely hold th( pen, but the soul-savers assist, and so Timbleton Lee has signed away his worldly possessions, and cast off his brother's children with a legacy of a thousand dollars. Thus the work is accomplished, but not a moment too soon. The soul of the patient has left the body to seek the place in heaven which the soul-saver has promised for the valuable con- sideration mentioned in the dying man's last will and testament. The two reverend gentlemen now call in the household, and after imparting appro- priate words of comfort and consolation, as is their duty and privilege to give, they take their leave. They are, however, present again at the funeral. Again they condole with the bereaved relations. They take their seats in the same carriage with them, and on the way to the cemetery listen with attentive care and benign countenance to the praises bestowed on the good qualities the deceased exhi- bited during life. Arrived at the grave, one of the clergymen offers a soul-stirring prayer, and, at its conclusion, his reverend brother preaches a sermon full of piety   16     CHERRY BLOSSOM. and full of eloquence. He feels proud of the occa- sion which permits him to speak at this solemn hour, to speak of a man who has been an ornament to society, who has been a father to the orphan, and who has been solicitous for the welfare of the Church. His soul, he trusts, is now at peace in heaven. He furthermore tells his hearers that they all are mortals, and, consequently, that they all are sinners. He exhorts them to repent of their tres- passes and evil deeds, if they wish their souls to be saved. He contrasts the joys of heaven with the torments of hell, and his voice quivers with emotion at the bare thought of any of the persons present being doomed to everlasting punishment. The ladies, of course, are in tears; their supply of cambric is employed in brushing the pearly drops from their fair faces, while even the sterner sex has become awed into a reverential silence. Then the coffin is lowered down into the grave, where the worms have been long expecting it; each of the congregation puts a spadeful of'earth on poor Tim- bleton's coffin, and after this they reenter the car- riages, and drive back to their homes from the last home of the body of Timbleton Lee.   CHAPTER   III. "T is an outrageous shame, and no mistake!" said Mr. Charles Blossom, as he entered his wife's sitting-room, a few days after Timbleton Lee's funeral. "What is a shame, my dear?" asked Mrs. Blos- som, lifting her eyes from her sewing, and looking at her husband. "Why, that old fool Timbleton has cut off Harry and Cora with a legacy of a thousand dollars apiece, and has bequeathed the rest of his property to a parcel of Presbyterian ministers, for the build- ing of a college." "Gracious me, you don't say so!" "Yes, I do. I haft just heard them read his will." "Who would have thought that he would do such a thing?" "I really believe that the man was insane." "But will they not contest the will ." 1iT'   18     CHERRY BLOSSOM. "And thus lose the little that is yet left to them in endless litigation." "Poor children! Harry is scarcely eighteen years old, and Cora is but fifteen." "Yes, that is it wlhat makes it look so bad." "And Harry has not even yet left college." ".Yes, yes, the boy has hardly begun his educa- tion, and unless we do something for them, nobody will. We are, at any rate, their nearest relations." "My dear, dear husband; how proud I feel to hear you say so! God will repay you a thousand fold for what you may do for those poor children." "Nay, Minnie, I do but my duty, and to do it well is reward enough for me2' "Dear Charles, my own true husband!" ex- claimed Mrs. Blossom, while putting her arms round his neck, and kissing him tenderly; "act as you think best. I am sure you will be a father to these orphans." "I will that, Minnie, with all my heart. Harry shall finish his education, if it costs the last dollar I ha' "And Cora may come and stay with us," sug- gested Mrs. Blossom. "Certainly, my dear; and if Htarry wishes still   CHERRy   BLOSSOM.      19 to go to a German University, to finish his studies, I will send him." "That is more than his Uncle Timbleton would have done," said Mrs. Blossom. "Cora told me that the old man was very angry when Harry first spoke of it to him." "The old man was perhaps fearful of the addi- tional expense he would be under." "But the expenses abroad are very great; are they not, Charles?" "Not so very-much as you think, my love. The cost of the journey is, perhaps, the heaviest item in the bill. Living in any German city is a great .deal cheaper than in New York. But I cannot see for the life of me what more Harry can learn in Germany than in New York." "Young Stevens put the idea in his head." "The miserable little fop ought to have some better business to attend to." "I heard him say there was no institution df learning in America to be compared with any of the German Universities." "How absurd! Why, Minnie, Columbia Col- lege, or the New York University, can beat the best of them."   20-    CHERRY BLOSSOM. "I believe so myself, Charles; but we must not thwart Harry's plan if we can help it." "No, I should not like to do it. Besides, Harry has been in the best society here, and people, now that he is no longer a rich man's heir, may only give him the cold shoulder. He is a proud and quick-tempered lad, and easily takes offence at any slight. Two or three years of hard study abroad will do him good; and may take some odd notions he has out of his head." "How glad Henry will be when you tell him, and Cora will be beside herself with joy, when she hears that her brother will be able to finish his edu- cation. The old house, too, will not be so lonely when Cora is with us." "Cora is a good girl, and will ne an excellent companion for you, my dear; and Cherry, who adores her, will hardly deign to look at us if Cora is in the house. But where is Cherry?" 'Here, pa, here I am!" exclaimed the little romp, bursting into the room in high glee. "Oh, pa! I had such fun with little Tommy Jones!" "And who is little Tommy Jones, Cherry ." "Why, don't you know  Tommy Jones, the gardener's boy! He let me go in his father's gar-   CHERRY   BLOSSOM.       21 den, and showed me all the flowers and the straw- berries. You ought to see them, pa. And Tommy has a little turtle with such a funny head. Pa, won't you buy me one just like it?" "If you are a good girl,. and learn your lessons." "Oh, I will be so good, and learn my lessons every day!" Here, a knock at the door interrupted Cherry, and to a responsive "Come in," from Mr. Blossom, Henry and Cora Lee entered the room. They met with a hearty reception, and,had to stay to dinner. After that was over, Mr. Blossom spoke of his plan of sending Henry abroad, and having Cora be- come an inmate of his family. Henry Lee accepted his kinsman's proposal with unmistakable emotions of gratitude; but his sister became visibly-distressed at the thought of a sepa- ration from her brother. She was determined, she said, to go with Henry to Germany, to share in his trials and fortunes. Though Mr. and Mrs. Blossom endeavored their utmost to dissuade her, she per- sisted firmly, though courteously, in her resolution, and was so earnest in her application, that Mr. ]Blossom saw it would be impossible to alter her determination, and reluctantly gave his consent to   22     OH ERRY B LOSSO M. allow Cora to go with her brother. Though averse to part with Cora, he saw that she loved her brother with all a sister's devotion, and how wretched and cheerless she must feel when her only, brother would be away, alone in a strange land. Henry, also, though he was aware that Cora would have a pleasant home at Mr. Blossom's house, still disliked to part with his sister; he felt naturally that he was her rightful protector, and felt proud of that duty. Mrs. Blossom also reluctantly gave her con- sent, but on the condition that Henry and Cora should stay a month 'at her house, in order, as she said, that she might give them a proper outfit, To this the young people made no objection, and the thirty following days were devoted to the prepara- tion for their journey. At last came the day when the Blossoms were to  lose their guests, and the brother and sister were to bid farewell to the American shore.. Mr. Blossom went with them as far as Sandy Hook, and ere he left the vessel he said to them: "Take care of yourselves, my children. If you do not succeed in the world, remembei that there is such a city as New York, and such a man as Charles Blossom, at whose house you will always   CHERRY BLOSSOM.         23 be welcome. .God bless you, Cora. God bless you, Harry. Writeto me often, and take care of your sister. God bless you both." "God bless you, Uncle Charles," said they both, with tears in their eyes, as he descended from the vessel, and they separated forever. Away sped the ship, across the broad Atlantic to the shores of the old world, and forty days after- ward Henry and Cora Lee were standing on one of the piers of Havre. The parting with their late companions on shipboard seemed like a last leave- taking of America. They felt, indeed, that they were in a foreign land, amid strangers. They thought of the vast distance which was between the foreign strand and their own native land; and as. $ley gazed, as far as their eyes could reach, over tdark green waves of the ocean, they felt a natu- ra( yearning toward the country of their birth, a sentiment not uncommon to most travellers, when strange manners and foreign tongues at first begin to assail the eye and ear. The next day, Henry and Cora Lee resumed their journey. Traversing France from west to east, and afterwards a paa; of Germany, a week later found them in the little city of Armenbeig, the end for   24     CHERRY BLOSSOM.  the present of their travels. Here they established ' themselves in lodgings, which, though not resem-  bling the fine apartments of their uncle Blossom's house, were yet comfortable and cheerful. Their wants were few, and Charles Blossom's generosity had not allowed them to leave home with an empty purse. In fact, Mr. Blossom had incurred the whole expense, since the legacy left them by Mr. Lee's will was, by its conditions, to be given them  on attaining their majority. But neither Henry nor  his sister were willing to depend altogether on their generous relative. Though reared in the lap of . A abundance, they were possessed of a proper spirit of self-respect, and commenced their new life with energy and earnestness. Henry entered the Uni- versity, and Cora secured a situation in a millinery  store, and the first letter which was sent by them . to Mr. Blossom was filled with good news and  many thanks.                  ? By a singular coincidence it happened that on the day their letter came to hand, New York had a gala-day. The foundation of Lee College, a noble  institution of learning, as the press announced, for  the education of poor young men for the ministry,  was to be laid with appropriate ceremonies. The   CHEERR   BLOSSOM.      25 event went off in fine style, and Lee College has long since been finished. It is a palatial looking edifice, with a brownstone front, and its lecture- room is adorned with a spirited portrait of the late Timbleton Lee, Esq., the founder of the College. Charles Blossom and his wife, though honored with cards of invitation to attend the opening cere- monies, on the completion of the building the fol- lowing summer, were not present on the occasion. They went to Saratoga to drink the waters and enjoy the country air till September, when Mr. Blossom's business made it necessary for the family to return once more to the city.   CHAPTER IV. "PUFF, puff " snorts the iron horse, and anon it breaks out into a shrill whistle, indignant, seem- ingly, of delay, while with grim discontent it de, vours the hard and dry post oak blocks, thrown by the fireman into the capacious furnace. "Puff, puff!" again it snorts. 'Twenty miles an hour-what slow work!" it seems to say. "They run very slow to-day, my dear," says Mr. Charles Blossom, who is aboard the train with his wife and daughter, returning to the city from his pleasure trip to Saratoga. "I should think they might go a little faster." "I wish we were once more at home," replied his wife. "So do I, mamma," says Cherry, as she rises from the seat she has been occupying at her mother's side, and takes a vacant one opposite, further back, where she may be able to look out of the window, to see, as she remarks, the trees and houses dance by. 82   COHERY BLOSSOM.        27", "Wq are behind -time, Dick," observes the con- ductor to the engineer, and to make up for lost time, the iron horse is made to go thirty miles an hour instead of twenty, till they reach the next station, where, according to the rules, the train is switched off for twenty minutes in order to let the train going west pass by. "What is the matter now?" asks passenger Jones of a brakeman. "Dunno," is all the answer he receives from that official, who evidently ls not one of the best ten- pered men in the world. Monstrous impertinence 1" passenger Jones remarks to passenger Smith. "These railroad men are the most insolent fel- lows in the world," Smith sympathetically replies to Jones. And a cute looking young man, sitting near them, takes out pencil and note-book, and puts down in short-hand character the whole of this interesting conversation, and perhaps a little more, to be duly set forth in one of the city papers; as one of the incidents of a ride on the cars. At last the twenty minutes are up, and the train going west has not yet made its appearance. The   28     a HE RRY B LOSSOM. train going east backs from the switch on to the track. Again snorts out the iron horse its "puff, puff!" and whistles with all its might, and two minutes later the train is in motion, thundering along the iron causeway at the top of its speed, in order not to miss the connection at the next point. Ten miles has it made, when a shrill whistle is heard, and the train going west almost instantly issues from an abrupt curve hid by a hill. The engineers and firemen jump off without delay, preferring a broken leg to a broken head, and the fiery steeds meet in deadly embrace, carrying their human freight at once to the great depot of souls- Eternity! A few minutes elapse ere the survivors creep forth from the wreck, rubbing their eyes as if they were just awakening from a dreadful dream. But, alas, it is no dream. It is stern, sad reality! The groans of the wounded are now heard, the clearing of the wreck is commenced forthwith, while mes- sengers are dispatched in various directions to summon assistance. The mutilated bodies of the. wounded, and the corpses of the dead are-brought forth to the light. Wives seaPch for their husbands, husbands for wives; here a brother's care is to find   CHERRY BLOSSOM.  his sister, while there a poor terrified child looks far hor parents. "What is youriname, my dear?" asks the con- ductor of the little girl, who, though she has escaped unharmed, can perceive neither father nor mother in the crowd. "Cherry Blossom, sir," she answered, amid her tears. "Will you help me to find my mother!" '"Was your mother aboard?" "Yes, sir, and father too." The conductor takes the child where the thirty and odd bodies of the dead have been laid on the green grass. "There is ma!" suddenly exclaims the little girl as she is brought face to face with the dead, recognizing her mother by her dress. She could not have known her features any more, so dreadfully had the poor lady been injured. A little further on, and no less disfigured, lies the body of Mr. Charles Blossom. The poor girl convulsively grasps his hand, but it is already stiff and cold, and returns no longer the embrace of the child, who stands near, weeping bitterly-an orphan t "This is a hard case," was the remark of more than one of the bystanders.   30 -    HERRY BLOSSOM. "Poor child! to lose her parents so young!" fell from the lips of others, and many a hand stretched forth to lay claim to the temporary guardianship of Cherry. An old lady, whose benevolent counte- nance secured at once respect and confidence, secured the coveted prize. "Come with me, my child," said the weeping matron, as she imprinted a kiss on poor Cherry's hot cheeks. "This it right, Mrs. Creamer," remarked the conductor. "I can safely put the little girl in your charge ;" and Cherry willingly accepted the pro- tection of the good old lady, while'the conductor went off to see where else a helping hand might be needed. Nor is he alone doing the work; for all those who escaped death or serious injury lend assistance. Many a traveller who has escaped not entirely unharmed makes light of his wounds at the sight of so much suffering, and constitutes himself one of the general committee of relief. It is on such occasions, indeed, when the great, good qualities of the human heart burn brightest and show the best light. From all the farmhouses in the neighborhood come men and women ready and anxious to help, and after an hour's delay is heard   CHERRY BLOSSOM.          31 the shrill whistle of the relief train from the nearest station. Aboard this train are a host of M Ds., who have all volunteered their services on the occasion. A few tender but great-hearted women come also to take their post as nurses to the sick, and now the work of mercy begins to be prosecuted with double vigor. The physicians are soon at work; arms and legs are provisionally propped up, other wounds are dressed and bandaged, the injured passengers are laid upon mattresses in the cars of the relief train, and the remains of the dead are laid in others; the bell rings for all to be aboard, and the train is soon in motion, carrying to the next station a cargo of mortality I .                 A   ECAPfTE   V. JUST one day the generous public devoted to the "late calamity," when the explosion of a steamboat boiler, happening twenty-four hours later, necessa- rily dimmed the recollection of the great railroad catastrophe. The remains of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Blossom were, after the coroner's inquest had been duly held, consigned to the grave; the business in Pearl street passed into other hands, the house on the Bloomingdale Road received new tenants, and Cherry Blossom was delivered by Mrs. Creamer, not without reluctance, to the care of Mr. John Blossom, the child's uncle and lawful guardian. Though John and Charles Blossom were brothers, nothing but the similarity of the name could have suggested, to a stranger, the possibility of any such relationship binding the two men together. Aside from having nothing in common as regarded per- sonal appearance, their characters presented a striking contrast. While Charles Blossom was free, 82   HER RY BLOSSOM.        33 open-hearted and communicative, his brother was reserved, sparing of words and shy of the world. "Deacon"John Blossom, as he was commonly called, was a tall, lean, attenuated six-footer, whose prim black dress coat and spotless white neck handkerchief gave him more the appearance of a clergyman than of a bank director and member of the Stock Exchange. None of his acquaintances could remember of having seen him laugh. His face was ever sad-looking and serious even to stern- ness, and the only good quality which seemed to be unquestioned was the promptness and regularity with which he attended to his business. Summer and winter, every week-day throughout the year, he was to be found at his desk in Wall street. Not a day had he missed since he made his appearance in that celebrated thoroughfare nearly twenty years ago, and/by dint of such industry and perseverance he had amassed so large a fortune, that his friends more Alin once expressed their astonishment that he did not retire from the street. Scheming mammas, too, who had marrieagable daughters, began to consider him worthy of notice, for was he not respectable?-that is to say, was he not rich? Had he not a high position as one of the solid men 2*   34     C H E R RY BLOSSOM. of the city? As for his age, that was certainly no objection. Older men than Mr. Blossom had married young wives and made them happy by providing them with fine establishments. But not- withstanding all these attempts to insnare him into the net of matrimony, Mr. John Blossom continued to lead a solitary life, much to the disappointment of those worthy ladies who had taken especial pains to invite him to soirees and social gatherings, private theatricals and elaborate dinners. Mr. John Blossom, apparently, had no inclination to enter into the pleasures of society, but kept on working as assiduously as a beaver at his office in -Wall street during six days of every week, and enjoying the Sabbath at his old house in Franklin street with no one but Mrs. Finch, his housekeeper, to look after his wants. Even to his brother's house he did not come more than once or twice a year, and Cherry, who was now to become his ward, had not conceived the most favorable opinion of her uncle and guardian. Under these circumstances, the little girl was loath to leave Mrs. Creamer, at whose residence she had been staying for a week aft r losing her parents, when her uncle came to ke her with him.   H E R Y BLOSSOM.       85 "Mrs. Finch," said Mr. Blossom to the house- keeper, who had opened the door to let her master in, "Cherry is to stay with us hereafter. You will have to make up a bed for her in your own room, and send for her clothes at her father's house." After giving this order, he relinquished the hand of his niece, looked at his watch, and hurried again down town. "Goodness, me " muttered Mrs. Finch, as she adjusted a superannuated pair of spectacles over her eyes, in order to take a better look at the new comer thus put under her care, "Mr. John could have told me something about it this morning; but he is just like all the men." "Are you hungry, dear " she now asked in a louder tone, having finished her inspection of the little girl, who was just brushing away a few rebel- lious tears from eyes already red and inflamed from too much weeping. "No, ma'am," answered Cherry, covering her eyes with her handkerchief. "Poor thing " soliloquized Mrs. Finch, feeling almost ready to cry herself. "Sit down, dear, and rest yourself," she con- tinued in a louder tone, "we will soon have dinner."   3.6   OHERRY BLOSSOM. She then took off Cherry's bonnet and cloak, wiped the dust off an arm-chair with a corner of her black silk apron, placed the child tenderly on the seat, and imprinted a kiss on her pale cheek. Then stirring the fire a little, and putting more fuel on it, she left the room to make up Cherry's bed accord- ing to her master's instructions, muttering to herself, "Poor thing,'poor thing!" After half an hour's absence, she returned to lay the cloth for dinner, and found that Cherry had fallen asleep in the arm-chair, overpowered by fatigue and grief. Mrs. Finch for a long time gazed ruefully at the young sleeper's countenance, till she felt a tear trickling down her own cheek. "Dear me, dear me, what a pity!" thinks Mrs. Finch, as she dries her eyes with her apron, and noiselessly finishes her preparations for dinner. Even Mr. John Blossom, who came home that afternoon a little earlier than usual, could not find heart enough to disturb his little niece, to ask her to sit down to dinner. "Let her sleep, Mrs. Finch," he said to the house- keeper, "she needs rest more than anything else." After he had finished, his meal, however, he took the still sleeping child in his arms as tenderly as a   O H ERRY BLOSSOM.       31 tmother would her babe, and carried her up to Mrs. Finch's room, where her bed had been prepared. Leaving the housekeeper to look after Cherry, he then descended to the little parlor, greatly disturbed in his mind, for he paces up and down in a thought- ful mood. It was evident that Cherry's coming had brought back to him recollections of-former days- recollections, perhaps, which he had for years-suc- cessfully kept in the back-ground of memory, but which now at last rush forward with redoubled vigor, and whose flame now burns with a more intense brightness, like the fire in the grate, which slowly but surely opens the air-passages choked up-by the heaps of coal, until it bursts forth the victor and destroyer of the anthracite mass. At last Mr. Blossom sits down in his arm-chair, and sends for Mrs. Finch to hear her opinion what had best be done for the child. "Why, Master John," said the housekeeper, when her advice had been asked, "keep her here. The child will make the house a sorter more lively. Bless me, your ma, as is now in Heaven, always liked children around her, and though she had enough of her own, managed to bring up two or three others in the bargain." k   38     CHERRY BLOSSOM.  "Yes," said Mr. Blossom, "mother was a great hand for children." "And the little girl," continued Mrs. Finch, "she set great store on, although she was but a babe when your ma died." "She did so, Mrs. Finch, and I think the little girl has her eyes and mouth." "To be sure, Master John, Cherry has the Blos- som look. There is no mistake about that." "You are right. She shows the family likeness. But now I must look over my papers. You had better go up and see if the child wants anything to eat. She must be hungry." With these words the conversation ended, much to the disappointment of the old housekeeper, whose memory about old times was just brightening up, and who did but rarely find her master in so com- municative a mood. "Master John is a queer man!" she muttered to herself, as she withdrew from the parlor, while Mr. Blossom took out his note-book to review his day's work. But his thoughts on the evening in question strayed away from money matters and bank affairs, and with an involuntary sigh, Mr. Blossom put away the book, and recommenced walking back and f    CHERRY BLOSSOM.        39 forth in the parlor, till it was time to go to bed. The next morning, however, no trace of disquiet was visible in his face, and after a short inquiry of Cherry how she had rested, he left the house to go down town. X .   CHAPTER VI. P'OR a few days after her installation in her new home, Cherry continued inconsolable. True, the sad loss of her parents in an instant was a misfortune calculated to shake the fortitude of even sterner characters and older persons; the sudden change of residence from the rural cottage in the outskirts of the city, to the dark, old-fashioned and dreary- looking house in Franklin street, seemed to her what the loss of liberty is to an unfortunate who is con- signed to a dungeon. To complete the contrast, there was, instead of her mother's beauteous countenance, Mrs. Pinch's wrinkled face as a substitute: and in her father's place, stood her grim uncle John, gazing occasionally at her with a look as stern and unbending as the dispenser of justice assumes on the bench, when it becomes his duty to mete out to a hardened criminal the utmost penalty of the law. It was seldom without a feeling of fear, that Cherry dared to look up to meet her guardian's 40   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        41 glance, for it seemed to her as if an unnatural fire was darting from his grey eyes. As to conversation, beyond giving orders to Mrs. Finch, in a quiet but peremptory tone, Uncle John seemed to be both deaf and dumb. It was only at morning and evening prayers that his voice was heard. He spoke the words beautifully, though, and there seemed to be a fervor in his tone when he prayed for the judgment day to come, for the punishment of the wicked, for the resurrection of the saints, and their reign for evermore-to all of which Mrs. Finch said " amen," with something of the precision of the Connecticut clock, as it sings out the hours every sixty minutes throughout the day. Mrs. Finch, the housekeeper, had been a fixture in the Blossom family for nearly forty years.* She had been brought up with old Mrs. Blossom, and from her father's house had followed that lady into that of her husband. She had hursed all her mis- tress' children, and had attended her on her death- bed. It was then but natural that Mr. John Blos- som should .leave to the old housekeeper the management of the house after his mother's death. She was now about fifty-five years old, but very   42     oH E a i -RY B L O S O M. active for her age, lively and perhaps a little gar- rulous, as the slanderers of the fair sex assert all ladies have a weakness to become after turning the shady side of the century. As might be expected, she considered herself one of the family, and only wished to be allowed to end her days in her master's service. Into the hands of this faithful retainer, Mr. Blossom could, without fear, commit the super- vision of his ward during his absence, since Cherry's feeble health precluded the plan of sending her to a boarding-school. A day governess was accordingly engaged to give Cherry her lessons, and to com- plete her education, while Mrs. Finch was enjoined to pay particular attention to the young girl's wants and conduct, for Mr. Blossom was determined to act a father's part to his brother's child, as far as it was possible for him to do. Mrs. Finch, with a true woman's delicate sympa- thy, allowed Cherry's grief to exhaust itself, and to let her tears flow undisturbed. The old house- keeper, in fact, shed not a few of her own, when thinking of the sad affair. But human nature is of too elastic a disposition to stay forever depressed by grief and sadness. It is from contact with extraneous objects that the sensibilities of the heart   O CHERRY BLOSSOM.        43 are stirred. When these objects are hidden from recollection, the emotions they gave rise to also vanish, and this constitutes what the matter-of-fact world calls a change. In our youth, we perceive new objects quicker than in older age, but they are also sooner obliterated from our memory. Children, for instance, will cry one minute and laugh the next, while the transition from joy to grief, or from grief to joy, becomes slower and more gradual, less keenly felt, and less exhibited as age advances and dims our faculties, like the edge of a knife which becomes blunted and less serviceable from constant use. Cherry Blossom's tears, it need not therefore be wondered, did not flow quite so freely after the first outhurst of grief was over; and after she had been in her uncle's house a month, and become used to the new life which had opened for her, they ceased altogether. She was occupied, also, with her lessons, and even grew to like the good old' housekeeper, who 'in turn perfectly doted on the young girl. Thus years passed on. The little romp has become a young lady, acknowledged by universal consent to-be eminently handsome.' Cherry, too, is reputed to be a great heiress, and, better than beauty or   "    CHERRY BLOSS,OM.  riches, possesses a good education, great intelligence  and a feeling heart. Perhaps coming in contact with Mr.- John Blossom has made Cherry more - serious and sedate than she would have been if she  had not lost her parents in her youth, but there is  also a vein of quiet humor mixed up with her. share of common sense. It is no wonder that even John Blossom begins to notice his niece more, by degrees; he feels something like pride when he looks at the gentle girl who calls him her dear uncle, and who, now regardless of his sternness, 'clings to his arm, twines her fair arms around his neck, and makes his house what it never was before--a pleasant and cheerful home. It is not surprising, therefore, that he should spend there all the hours he can spare from business. Nor does he look as stern now as formerly, and his life to him has become more endurable. A smile at times will light up his countenance, but, alas, it is only a quick and tran- sient smile. A secret sorrow seems as yet to lie like a heavy load on his bosom, which prevents any sensations of joy to penetrate the crust of misan- thropy encircling John Blossom's heart. Cherry has laid a long siege to gain an entrance in her uncle's heart. It is a long and tedious siege, but   CHEERY   3L O S 8 M.     45 Cherry one day will storm the fortress and capture the heart, drive misanthropy from its usurped posi. tion, and lift off the heavy load. As yet, John Blossom will not tell what has caused this heavy sorrow to come and shroud his heart in darkness and gloom. . He dislikes to speak of former days and of his adventures abroad. He dislikes all sympathy, and prefers to carry the great sorrow uncomplaining to his grave. Not a groan is heard from his lips. The veriest stoic could not carry suffering to a greater extent. "Poor Uncle John! I wonder what makes him so sad," often says Cherry to herself, and once or twice to Mrs. Finch. But the housekeeper, though ready enough to speak of other subjects, felt that this was forbidden ground. "(Your uncle John is a very queer man, and if anything serious has happened to him, he does not wish the world to know it," said the old lady. "But did anything serious happen to Uncle John, Mrs. Finch?" asked Cherry, who noticed Mrs. Finch's confused manner. I don't know, my dear," was all the reply of the housekeeper, as she hurried from the room under the pretence of attending to her household affairs.   CHAPTER VI. SENECA tells us that light griefs are plaintive, but the great are dumb, and Psammenitus shed tears at the misfortunes of a domestic, but could utter no sound at seeing his son led to execution and his daughter to the slave mart, because, as he said, the last two calamities exceeded all manner of expres- sion. John Blossom's heart apparently was shrouded by a sorrow as heavy as that of Psammenitus, and his fair niece had for many months in vain tried to remove the pall. She is not discouraged by her fail- ure and does not heed the housekeepers advice to leave the subject alone, but, poor foolish girl as she was, she sheds tears on Uncle John's account in secret. Bitter, scalding tears they are, and ere she can dry them, there stands John Blossom before her. "What ails you, Cherry?" he asked in his quiet, sober manner. "Oh, Uncle John," she sobs, "I feel so un- happy" " "   CHERRY BLOZ3sOM.       47 "Unhappy  How? What makes you unhappy?" "Oh, I cannot help it." "Cannot help what? Now tell me, Cherry, and quit crying," says John Blossom, a little testily. "Don't be angry, dear Uncle John, but I cannot help feeling bad when I see you look unhappy." "Cherry, you are foolish. I am not unhappy," says Mr. Blossom, who begins to feel slightly un- comfortable. "Oh, Uncle John, don't deny it to me. Tell me what troubles you, for I cannot bear to see you like the tree whose branches have been swept away by the storm." Mr. John Blossom, at hearing his niece's com- parison, for a few moments stood like one unable to move, but afterward he clasped Cherry in his arms and kissed her. "My dear child," he said, "you are a comfort to me, and well worth my confidence. One of these days you shall know everything, but I cannot tell you now." W'!th these words Mr. Blossom left the room. Cherry dried her tears, and a smile was s6on chasing away the feeling of woe she had ex- perienced. She looked radiant that evening when   48     CHERRY BLOSSOM. her Uncle John came home to supper, and even Mrs. Finch observed that Miss Cherry was becom- ing handsomer every day-just the very image of  her grandmother.  From that day, however, Mr. Blossom became a changed man. The crust of sorrow and misan- thropy, which had so long imprisoned his heart, seemed to have been broken, his countenance had lost its sternness, and his nature had become more yielding. The change caused some curious specu- lations among Mr. Blossom's friends, and even good Mrs. Finch wondered what made Mr. John suddenly so pleasant, so much like the gay and light-hearted boy she had known him to be in former years. But it was Cherry who thoroughly appreciated her guardian's altered demeanor. How joyful she felt, when she looked up at her uncle's face, and saw that he reciprocated her smile! Her tears of sorrow were changed into tears of gladness, as she heard him call her the apple of his eye, and when he told her that by her means alone he could ever have become reconciled to tple world. "Dear uncle, how glad I am to hear you say so!" said Cherry, as they were sitting together one even- ing in the parlor.   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        49 "But, Cherry, it will never do for you to be shut up here with me in this dreary old house." "Dear Uncle John,' I do not find it dreary to be with you." "But youshould see a little of the world." A trip abroad would do you no harm, Mr. John," said Mrs. Finch. "Do you really think so?" "Why to be sure. You can well afford to let business alone for awhile," continued the old house- keeper, " and take Cherry down South, or to Europe." "Oh, I should like to go to Europe," exclaimed Clierry, "just to see Henry and Cora Lee." "Well, I will think of it," said Mr. Blossom. Uncle John did think of it, and after mature con- sideration, concluded to go with Cherry to Europe for six months. The preparations for the journey were speedily commenced and diligently prosecuted, and on a fine May morning Mr. Blossom sent in his resignation as director of the -- Bank, while on Wall street it was known that Mr. Blossom had retired from business. "He must be worth a plum," said several. "Two hundred thousand at least," said others. 3   50     O HERRY BLOSSOM. "And he is going to Europe to spend it," re- marked not a few. "Well, I don't care," observed the gentleman who was chosen to fill Mr. John Blossom's place at the Board of Directors of the -  Bank.   CHAPTER VIII. THE church bells sounded the vesper hours in the city of Vera Cruz. The streets which had looked deserted during the middle of the day, seemed to have assumed a more animated aspect. Refreshed by their siesta, the citizens came now forth from all quarters of the town to enjoy the cool evening breeze. A noisy multitude was in the plaza where the band of the Guarda Nacional were to perform, the ccaf6 in front of the plaza was filled with a pro- miscuous crowd, composed of different nationalities, drinking and smoking, and of course talking in as many tongues, and more, than Babel ever witnessed. Further from the centre of the town the piazzas were occupied by the gentler sex principally, who, though not averse to a cigarita, love to enjoy the luxury in a like-to-stay-at-home kind of manner. While all the houses were thus opening their doors and windows, an observer passing at that hour through the Calle Mercedes would 'have 81   52    UCHEERRY BLOS OM. noticed that in that street, at least, there was an exception. The house was a small two-story stone building, old-fashioned, but not without claims to architectural beauty. It must evidently have been built under the old Spanish reign, when Mexico was a prosperous colony of a beggared state. The build- ing stood some fifty paces back from the street, in the middle of a garden, whose well-planned gra- velled walks, fragrant flowers, and green orange- trees indicated considerable taste on the part of its owners. But on that evening the garden was deserted, the shutters of the house reained un- opened, and when, with noiseless tread, an ecclesi- astic approached the door to gain admittance, it was silently and carefully refastened after he had entered. "How is your mother this evening?" asked the priest of a young man who had opened the door for him. "Very low indeed, Father Jos6," was the reply. Y   "What does Dr. Martinez say? Has he been here this afternoon?"  "He came shortly after you left. He says he can do nothing. He gives no hope, and says she cannot live till morning."   HEBRRY BLOSSOM. .       53 ".Ad your mother; does she know this '" "She does, Father Jose, and is prepared and resigned."  May the Most Holy Virgin have mercy on her!" fervently ejaculated the pious priest. "Let us go in, father," said the young man. "my mother'has been expecting you." "Crossing the hall, the priest was conducted by the young man to a room in the back part of the house. It was a small apartment, simply yet neatly furnished. The two Gothic windows were screened by heavy curtains which let in a dim light, such as at once shows the visitor that he is in a sick-chamber. Two old-fashioned bookcases, through whose' glass doors the names of hundreds of authors peered forth, were standing like senti- nels at the sides of a side-table. A Sevres vase, holding a fragrant bunch of flowers, had been placed on the table, and above it was a half-length oil-painting representing a young man, apparently a little older than the one who had come in with the priest, but still bearing a close resemblance to  him. On the opposite side of the room, on a bed whosd curtains had been withdrawn, lay the invalid. Her features were pale and bore the imprint of   54    Ia ERRY BLOSSOM. bodily suffering, yet there were visible traces in her countenance of great personal beauty. She could scarcely be more than thirty-five years old, and her hair shone with a beautiful blue-black bril- liancy. Her eyes were fixed on the portrait hang- ing over the table, on the opposite side, and it was almost reluctantly that she turned away, when hearing the footsteps of the visitor in the hall. "Thank Heaven, it is you!" she said with diffi- culty, as the priest entered the room. "Yes, my daughter, I am come," he replied, advancing to the bed-side. "Oh, good father, I am glad you are here. I almost feared that my messenger would not reach you in time, and I cannot die without"-- - "Calm yourself, Senora," interposed the priest, apprehensive that she might overtask her strength. "But I have yet much to say, and I feel that my time is short." Here the dying woman rested a few minutes, while her eyes again gazed at the portrait.  "Are you here, Juan?" she resumed. "Yes, dear mother," replied the young man, rising from the seat he had occupied at the foot of the bed, and taking his place near her side. She   OCHERRY BLOSSOM.        55 stretched out her right hand, and he kissed it fer- vently. The dying mother rewarded this token of filial love with a mournful yet affectionate smile, while endeavoring to raise herself in order to speak with greater ease. Juan and the priest tenderly lifted her body and propped up her head with pillows. "Thank you, good father," she said, in that spirit of true Castilian courtesy, so often lauded and so rarely seen now-a-days. "I am now very comfort- able." "My daughter, what would you say?" asked the priest. "Juan, my son," thereupon resumed the mother, "I feel that my life is drawing to its close. God has at last listened to my prayer to take me away out of this vale of sorrow. When I am no more, I adjure you to remember the promise you gave me this morning. Say once more in the presence of this good man, that you will go forth and endeavor to find your father. It is the only thing I ask of you. Find him, Juan, and tell him that your mother was innocent, and died an injured though a loving wife. Swear that you will do it, and I shall die contented."   56     aECHERRY BLOSSOM. "I swear it, mother, by all that is sacred," replied the young man, reverently kissing the cross the priest was holding to his lips. God bless you, my son," the ying woman con- tinued. "In the secret drawer f my bureau you will find a manuscript and c#her papers. Read  them after my death; they will tell you all. Tell your father that Elvira Morales forgives him; but she blesses-blesses "-- and with these words she sunk back exhausted, while her eyes again reverted to the portrait. The priest kneeled down, with the young man at his side, and prayed to the Father of Mercy for the salvation of the soul now about to take its leave of earth. The patient had crossed her hands meekly, as she heard the prayer. At its end, when her son and the priest rose up, the last breath of the suf- ferer was gasped forth, and life had left the" body. Father Juan felt her pulse, and saw that it beat no longer. "She is at peace," he said, gently, as he closed her eyes. "Oh, my mother!" was a11 the son could pro- nounce, and he kissed the lifeless lips. The priest now took his leave, after having been   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        57 commissioned by the young man to make the necessary preparations for the funeral, leaving the son alone to mourn for a few hours in solitude-to shed his tears of sorrow free from the gaze of the world, a holy, hallowed tribute of respect for the loss of the being who had been his mother, friend, teacher, and guardian. Juan had indeed, in the ! death of his mother, incurred a heavy loss. He had loved his mother as he had loved no other being on earth. She was the only parent he ever had known. He knew of no other relation he had besides her., There was a mystery with regard to his father, which had never been explained to him. He had never seen his father, but understood that many yeals ago he had suddenly left Vera Cruz, and never been heard of since. The subject was evidently a painful one to his mother, for whenever Juan ventured to mention it, she would become visibly distressed and agitated. Juan, therefore, forbore, though reluctantly, to make further in- quiries. His mother's health had been failing for some time past, and her dissolution did not come unexpected. Yet Juan was not preparedJ when death at last relieved the sufferer, to part so uickly with the only relation he had ever known.  3*   58     CHERRY BLOSSOM. But death cuts off the children of earth at all times and at all ages, without regard to rank or station; he is the great equallizer and leveller. Monarchs and subjects, the lofty and the lowly, have to bow submissively when their hour has come to die; when they have to return AswF.8 TO AsiHEs! DUST TO DUST!! EARTE TO EARTH!! i / A '   CHAPTER IX. "HEIGOH!- what a book!" the reader undoubtedly will exclaim; " only eight chapters and already four funerals. Naught but hearse and tolling bells, mourning dirge and graves." I confess it does not sound pleasant with all our philosophy to hear of death. The dreaded topic may dowell enough in the halls of Plato's academy, but the majority of men dread metaphysics only less than physics, and in deference to their wishes I will skip a day of sor- row. Let them go backwith me to the residence of Juan Morales, though that young gentleman has fastened the door, and, to use a fashionable phrase, "is not at home" to visitors. He is on the point of examining the contents of an old-fashioned, bureau, a piece of furniture which would be re- regarded as a treasure by any hunter of antiquities. Its outside is covered with elaborate carvings of Bible scenes, and a small silver plate on the top bears the inscription "Ludovicus Morales fecit, i   60     CHERRY BLOSSOM. Anno Domini 1737." It is an old family relic, and, notwithstanding its age, is yet in serviceable condi- tion. The knobs of the drawers are fashioned into roses, and Juan, taking hold, examines their work- manship with something like admiration. At last he pulls out the topmost drawer, which he knows has a double bottom. He empties its contents of linen and touches a spring inside; the false bottom flies up and the manuscript and papers mentioned by his mother lie before him. After taking out the papers he replaces the false bottom, puts back the linen he has taken out, closes the drawer and takes his seat near the window, with the manuscript in his hands. Slowly he unties the string, removes the covering, and reads the super- scription on the first page, "(To Juan, after my death." Let us look over his shoulders as he turns to the second page.   CHAPTER X. ON turning the leaves of the manuscript, Juan read as follows: MY DEAR SON: When your mother is no more, when no ties of kindred bind you longer to this place, I beseech you to devote a few years of your life, to the effort of finding out the whereabouts of your father, should he still be among the living. The fortune which you will receive at my death is sufficiently ample to allow you to travel abroad, and moreover you will at the same time have an opportunity to see the world. You ought at least to spend five years in foreign countries. For your further information in regard to the object for which I desire you to undertake this journey, I have without concealment and with perfect candor writ- ten out the following statement: I was born in the city of Valladolid in Spain. When I was scarce three years old, my parents emigrated to the new world, and settled in this "   -62    CHERRY BLOSSOM. town of Vera Cruz. My father established himself as a merchant, and by industry and fortunate ven-  tures, became in less than ten years one of the richest men in the city. At last he resolved to retire from  business, and for this purpose bought a hacienda above Jalapa, where he intended to spend the re- mainder of his days. I was then about fifteen years of age and not without pretensions to beauty; but at the same time, being an only child, had been so petted and spoiled by my parents, as to become wayward, selfish and somewhat of a coquette. I had already had several offers to marry, but had refused all, sometimes even to the chagrin of my good father, who was anxious to see me merry well, and who could not comprehend how I could coldly refuse the offers of great-wealth and high station. I alleged invariably, when pressed on the subject, that I desired a few 'more years+ of freedom. Little did my parents imagine that this was but a subterfuge, and that my heart was no longer free. He to whom I had sur- rendered it- did not even know of the conquest he had made, or, if he did, seemed not to care. He was a North American. His name was Juan Os- borne-your father-and he lived at the time with   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        63 his uncle, a rich merchant of Vera Cruz. I had met him at balls and parties, had danced, talked and laughed with him for the purpose of drawing a con- fession of love from his lips, but in vain; the acknowledgment so ardently longed for by me he would not utter. His coldness only increased the passion I dared not express. My love grew stronger day by day. I could have fallen down on my knees, and almost worshipped him, but for my pride. That was equal to my love-Spanish pride always is-and pride forbade me to make further advances. Though my heart beat with tumultuous joy when near the object of my affections, I assumed a coldness and reserve totally at variance with my real feel- ings. When at last my father had all his business settled up, and the day of our departure from Vera Cruz had been fixed, love at last was on the point of con- quering pride, but it was too late. The messenger who was to deliver my note asking Juan for an in- terview, brought me word that both uncle and nephew had left that morning for Mexico, and were not expected to come back for some weeks. With a heavy heart I left Vera Cruz. The' dull vrorito- U-.    ":    CHERRY BLOSSOM. smitten city possessed that day more charms for me than all the pleasures of a country life, since in that city alone I could hope too see the idol of my affec- tions again. I felt heartsick and weary, and my parents wondered why I was silent, and, asked whether I did not feel joyful on my happy deliver- ance, as they termed it, from Vera Cruz. Nothing unusual occurred on our journey till the second day after we had left Jalapa, and were but ten miles from our new home. My father was in the act of praising the good character of the country people-andpxpressed his joy that the roads were not any longer infested by robbers, when five or six of these freebooters rode up, and stopped our car- riage. Our servants, who should have helped to defend us, made only a feeble show of resistance, but my father fought gallantly till, overborne by numbers, he had become exhausted, and was dragged out of the carriage. At this instant, while my mother and myself seemed to be at the mercy of the robbers, a party of five horsemen came up to the scene of the rencounter. Comprehending at a mo- ment's glance how matters stood, they threw them- selves upon the robbers and speedily put them to flight. One of the bandits only, more courageous   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        65 than the rest of his companions, did not turn his back, but fired a pistol at one of the strangers, wounding him in the arm. The robber's triumph was but short-lived; the next moment he was shot through the head, and died without a groan. My father had by this time somewhat recovered from the effects of kblow one of the robbers had dealt him, and wa beginning to express his thanks; our servants crawled forth, and my mother and my- self, who had been expecting death every minute, now alighted from the carriage. With an exclama- tion of astonishment and delight I recognized that the wounded stranger was no other than my lover. Though he and his uncle had set out for the capital several days before we left Vera Cruz, they had stopped some days at Jalapa, and were now on their way to Puebla. Both of my parents were lavish in their expressions of gratitude, and as young Mr. Osborne had been wounded, my father insisted on his accepting a seat in our carriage, and to accept, in company with his uncle, our hospitality for a few days. As soon as we arrived at our hacienda, a physi- cian was sent for and the ball extracted from the wounded man's arm. Dr. Gregorio recommended   "    OHEBRY BLOSSOM. his patient to be kept quiet for a few days, predict-  ing an attack of fever if he should add the excite-  ment of a journey to the nervous irritation his system was under. Nor/were his apprehensions  exaggerated, for the patient in a short time grew delirious. It was almost with a feeling of joy that I took my place as nurse at my lover's bedside; my joy redoubled when I heal him confess his love for me in the outhursts of delirium. He fought the robbers of the highway over again in his ravings, and dared them to touch me. Then he would re- proach ne for my coldness, and fancied himself rejected and despised. At last the delirium was succeeded by a calm and deep sleep. Dr. Gregorio, who had come back, felt his pulse and pronounced the patient, out of danger. How I blessed the old man when he pronounced the sentence, and how joyous and free my heart felt as at a late hour that evening I retired to rest, with the consciousness that my love was returned. Old Mr. Osborne soon left us after his nephew had been declared out of danger, as business of im- portance required his presence in the city of Mexico. Juan was, however, to remain with us till the return of his uncle from the capital, as his wound would   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        67 not permit him to travel. Nothing could have been more welcome to me, who had been constituted chief nurse by universal consent, and I believe that I filled my post to the satisfaction of all concerned. I almost regretted when my occupation was gone and Dr. Gregorio allowed the young man to leave his bed. I was, however, recompensed by becoming my lover's companion in his walks in the garden and the fields. At first they were but short, but as his strength returned we roamed for hours over the meadows and through the woods. At last my lover declared his passion. Of course, it came not unexpected, but at first such were my feelings of joy and shame that I could not command my lips to speak. The moment became an age of bliss, and in my insatiability I drained the cup of happiness to its very dregs. Well do I remember how, seated under the shady oak, your father confessed to me, his willing auditot, the love with which I had inspired him; how he hhl been innumerable times at the point of throwing himself at my feet, and how he had been held back and deterred by my unnatural coldness. How he wept for joy when at last I. could stammer forth the secret of my heart. Long and rapturous was the L   68     CHERRY BLOSSOM. embrace when we had mutually exchanged what had been long sealed up in our hearts, and it was  not till we heard a rustling of the forest leaves that we became again conscious of the existence of others than ourselves. The intruders were my pa, rents. I ran to them and threw myself in my father's arms, and told what they already divined- my tale of love.   CHAPTER XI. MY parents willingly gave their sanction to our union, and on the return of my lover's uncle to the hacienda we were married, and after a few months' residence in the country I returned with my hus. band to Vera Cruz. The first year of my married life seemed to me to be the happiest periodlf my existence, and the bonds of affection between your father and myself were more strongly cen dby your birth. Unfortunately, soon afterward, busi- ness of great importance made it necessary for your father to undertake a voyage to'Europe. Much as I wished to accompany my husband, the delicate state of my health prevented my doing so, greatly to our mutual regret. From that time commenced the series of misfortunes which have pursued me to the grave. Scarcely had the vessel, on which your father had embarked, left por, when the .yellow fever, in its most malignant type, broke out in Vera Cruz. The 69    70     CHERRY :BLOSSOM.  ravages, of the epidemic were frightful; fully one- tenth of the population was swept away. My parents hurried down from the country to take me to their home, but before they had been twenty-four hours in the city, they became hopeless victims of the scourge. To add to my distress, my husband's uncle, who had nearly recovered, in his anxiety to serve me, ventured out too early, and he too was numbered among the victims. Thus I found my- self, a month after my husband's departure, alone with you, a helpless infant, deprived of my protec- tors, and even deserted by my servants. Clerks, porters, cooks, chambermaids and scul- lions, all had fled the pestilence-stricken city, save two-a clerk named Pedro Garcia, and Adeline Ferrier, my attendant. Garcia, like myself, was a native of Valladolid, and had been' in Mr. Osborne's counting-house for a number of years. He was a man of incorruptible integrity, had great business qualifications, and was esteemed everywhere he was known, as an amiable and high-minded gentle. man. When the epidemic raged the most, his good qualities shone forth conspicuously; he was every- where, in the counting-room as well as in the sick- chamber. While the rest of his fellow-clerks had   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        71 consulted their personal safety by ignoble flight from the city, he toiled all day attending to the business of the office, and spent part of the night in ministering to the sick. Mr. Osborne's uncle, in his last moments, commended me and my child to his care, and the trust thus imposed on him Garcia faithfully and honorably discharged. Adeline Ferrier, my personal attendant, was a Frenchwoman by birth, a native of the province of Languedoc. She was not without claims to personal beauty, and, like most Frenchwomen, possessed pleasing and vivacious manners. She had also been for a number of years with us, and was always loud in protesting her warm love toward me. After my marriage, she had frequently come in contact with Garcia, and her affectionate con- duct toward my gallant countryman showed that he had made a conquest of her heart. Garcia, however, had never given her any encouragement, but on the contrary always evinced, when made aware of the real nature of the case, decided symp- toms of ihdifference, if not of aversion, to her ad- vances. the line of conduct Garcia thus observed was followed by the most disastrous results. The irri-   72    ' QHERRY BLOSSOM. tated Frenchwoman, when she saw herself con- temptuously rejected, determined to be revenged. She was top high-spirited a woman to be tamely  treated with indifference. Her love for the Spaniard ' was changed into a malicious hatred, and she'only waited for an opportunity to wreak 'on Garcia's devoted head the full measure of her vengeance. Observing the unremitting care with which Garcia watched over you and myself, she fancied to see in these attentions the cause of her rejection. "He loves my mistress," said Adeline to herself, and she determined to ruin me as well as him. It was a hellish design she thus conceived, and she carried it out with true Machiavellian subtlety. Six months elapsed ere your father had finished the business on hand, and returned from Europe. He had left his home the abode of happiness, and came to find it the dwelling of sorrow. The loss of his uncle, of course, affected him deeply, for he had revered him as a father. Garcia's services during his absence were too great not to be amply acknowledged by my husband. Mr. Osborne, be- sides forcing upon him the acceptance of a large sum of money, also made him a partner in his business. Adeline Ferrier also received a suitable    OHERRY  BLOSSOM.'      73 acknowledgment of her services, and was appa- rently well satisfied. The joy I felt at your father's return greatly benefited my health and spirits, for he to me was all the world. For three months we lived after that in Vera Cruz, in undisturbed hlappiness and peace. At the approach of the sickly season we made a visit to the hacienda, which I had become possessor of at my father's death. Mr. Osborne's affairs pre vented him from remaining in the country any longer than a few weeks, and it was with reluctance that I had to consent to his return to Vera Cruz, while I was to remain two months longer. Our parting was extremely affecting, but little did I think that it was the last time I ever should see him. Along with my husband went Adeline, my attendant, back to Vera Cruz., Her brother, she explained, was expected from France, and she wished to be on the spot to receive him. Satisfied with the correctness of her tale, I gave her the required leave of absence. How little did I dream that all this was false, and that my perfidious attendant had only been waiting for the opportunity which now presented itself, to effect my ruin and Garcia's disgrace. 4   1' 74     cnE RY BLOSSOM. On the journey to the seaboard, my husband was made the listener to such a tissue of falsehood- that I dare not permit my pen to record it. It is enough to state that she charged me with in- fidelity and adultery, and declared that Garcia was the man who had destroyed my husband's happiness. As a proof of her assertions, she handed i Mr. Osborne a letter, purporting to have been written by myself, and which she had been directed  to deliver into Garcia's own hands. Adeline's fiendish plan fully succeeded. Your  father was thunderstruck and overwhelmed with  shame and mortification. But he resolved to be  revenged. On his arrival at Vera Cruz, he sought out Garcia. "Villain, traitor!" were the words he uttered. " r. Osborne!" exclaimed the astonished man, hardly knowing what to say. "You have dishonored me, and you must die!" was the reply, and Mr. Osborne fired his pistol into Garcia's body, and fled. When theierowd, attracted by the report of the pistol, rushed into the room, the unfortunate Spaniard was weltering in his blood, but your father was never seen or heard of any more in Vera Cruz. '    CHAPTER XII. IT was nearly a month after my husband -had left the hacienda, that I received one evening a letter by the hand of a muleteer. It was from my hus- band, and contained the horrifying news that he had left Mexico forever on account of my faithless- ness, that he had killed my paramour, and that he would never forgive me. Innocent as I was, and totally ignorant of what Mr. Osborne meant, I was as much astonished as grieved. The next day came a letter from Garcia, detailing his encounter with my husband, and also his convalescence. I at once set out with you for Vera Cruz, to learn if possible some further particulars of this, to me, unaccountable mystery. I cannot describe to you the feelings of sorrow and anguish I experienced as I entered my once happy home, now made desolate and cheerless. None of the servants had remained but Pedro, an old African, whom Garcia had placed in charge of the house. Adeline Ferrier had, with- 75   76     EEO H R R Y BLOSSOM. out giving any explanations, sailed for France. Garcia came to me, looking more like a walking ghost than a living man, as soon as he heard that I had returned. Long and painful was our inter- view. Of Mr. Osborne's whereabouts he was as ignorant as myself, nor had he ever seen Adeline. "With tears in my eyes, I handed him the last letter I had received from my husband. He was overwhelmed with astonishment and indignation as he read it." "We are both the victims of a conspiracy," said he at last. "I will forswear my salvation if this is nof Adeline Ferrier's work." You think so, Garcia?"I asked, hardly daring to believe his assertion. "It can hardly be otherwise, Seiora. Adeline bears me no friendly feelings, and has moreover been heard to declare that she yet would trample on my dead body." "But for what, Garcia? You never did her any injury." "I only despised her, and unfortunately showed my feelings too openly." "Alas, Garcia, what can we do?" "I do not care for myself, Senora, but the thought   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        " of seeing you involved, and of your happiness being destroyed, well-nigh breaks my heart. You, who have been always so good and kind, have been stung by a serpent, which you nurtured in your bosom." "Garcia," said I suddenly, "we must part. You must leave Vera Cruz." "Oh, Senora, do not banish me! Let me watch over you and protect you. I will risk my life in your defence." "Impossible!" ( Why impossible, Seiora?" "Garcia, the eyes of the world will look upon us with reproach." "But will you care for the world's opinion, when your leart tells you you are innocent?" "No, my friend, it is not for my sake that I should care, for I am broken-hearted, and only fit for the grave; but it is for the sake of my now fatherless boy that I beseech you to leave this city. The world is uncharitable to the unfortunate. Men will point the finger of scorn and derision at him as he grows up.' Cruel tongues will mock him and bid him to ask Garcia where his father is. Are you willing to entail upon this helpless infant my misfortune?"   CHERRY   BLOSSOM. "No, never, Senora." "And you will leave Vera Cruz?" / "Yes, Senora; to-morrow, nay, to-day if it needs be. But I shall go forth into the world," continued he with vehemence. "I will endeavor to find your husband, to tell him how vilely you have been slandered, that you are as innocent as the new- born babe, and that he has judged me rashy, and condemned we without proof!" "Thanks, a thousand thanks to you, Garcia!"I exclaimed. "Bring him back and I shall bless you." "To restore your husband to you will be the greatest blessing I ever can ask. My preparations shall be commenced forthwith." Garcia kept his word. As soon as he could wind up the business of the house, he made his prepara- tions for departure, and but three weeks after my arrival in Vera Cruz, the noble-hearted man came to bid me farewell forever. The next day he left for New York.  Ten long years he wandered through the United States and Europe, searching and inquiring in all places, never discouraged by failure, and hoping as long as hope was reasonable. He did not succeed in meeting your father; heaven /    CHERRY BLOSSOM.        79 sent in his path, however, the author of my ruin. He met Adeline Ferrier. One evening, while travelling in the' South of France on the way to his native Spain, Garcia alighted at a small inn. The inmates of the house he found in a state of great excitement, on account of an accident which had happened to a lady but a few hours previous, by the upsetting of a post- chase. The patient had just been brought ipto the house, but no physician was on hand, nor likely soon to arrive, as the nearest lived five miles off and a messenger had only been dispatched for him since Garcia's arrival in the village. Garcia who had studied medicine at Salamanca, and possessed considerable skill in surgery, as soon as he heard of the circumstances offered his services and was conducted to the patient's room. His surprise was great when, despite the injuries s/e had received, he suddenly beheld Adeline F ier's countenance. She also recognized him, an somewhat bitterly exclaimed-  "You have come to see me die, Garcia!" "I hope not. You will get over it, mademoiselle,' was his quiet reply. "No, not this time. My end has come," she   80     CHERRY BLOSSOM. said in a determined manner, notwithstanding her sufferings; and Garcia, after he had examined her injuries, and done all in his power to render her condition easier, knew that she was speaking the. truth. "How long have I to live!" she asked of him anxiously. "Do not conceal it from me." "About six hours, Adeline, at the utmost. Do you wish for a confessor .?" "Yes," she answered; "send for a priest, and also for a notary." Garcia did as she desired, sending one of the servants to bring them. In a short time both priest and notary were in attendance, and Adeline Ferrier, on the threshold of death, confessed that she had deceived Mr. Osborne for the purpose of being revenged on Garcia, that she has since repented of the act, and that she hoped Garcia would forgive her.' The notary, after having taken her deposition, read it aloud to'her,and she then signed it. It was also attested by the priest. Two hours after she had made the confession, Adeline Ferrier expired in Garcia's arms, and the next morning the green sod in the churchyard was opened by the digger's spade to receive her remains.   CHERRY BLOSSOM.      ' 81 On the same day Garcila wrote to me the full particulars, inclosing also a copy of the confession, and announced his intention of returning to Spain, where he had determined to spend the remainder of his life. He safely reached his home, found both of his parents alive, and shortly afterward removed with them to Vera Cruz, where he married the daughter of a rich merchant, and where, according to the latest accounts I heard from him, he lives greatly respected and beloved by all who know him. As for myself, I have led a hermit's life ever since your father's departure, resigned to God's will, and endeavoring to do my duty by bringing you up, my beloved Juan, in the ways of righteousness and in the fear of the Lord. Let me once more entreat you to do what is possible to discover your father. The fortune which I leave you is sufficiently ample for all your wants, and you will find it no great hardship, if not a pleasure, to spend a few years of your life abroad. Your mother's blessing will guide you on your journey! May God protect you, my child, my only child! Should heaven prosper you in your mission, should you find your poor father, take to him my forgiveness. Tell him that   82     CHERRY BLOSSOM. he has unintentionally done me wrong, but say to him that I have been true to him to the last, and that I died with his name upon my lips. ELVIRA MORALES.   CHAPTER XIII. Turs ended the manuscript. Juan felt over- powered by his emotions. He thought of his dear gentle mother; how much and how long she had patiently suffered. He tried to picture to himself the father he had never known, but was now going to search for; how he would, after having found him, bring him words of balm and a message of peace; how he would describe to him his mother's life-long devotion; how he would tell him that she blessed the absent husband who had so cruelly forsaken her, even with her last breath. But there comes a conflict of thought. Hope, which has been the great ally of the young man's resolution, is stoutly beset by Doubt. Doubt and Hope strive for the mastery. Hope bids the young man to go forth into the world and to find out his father. Doubt whispers the journey will be in vain. The strong voice of Hope is then heard again urging him on to make a trial. Doubt mockingly replies "Love's 88   84    Ca .E RRY BLOSSOM. Labor Lost! The world is too large. If your father is yet alive, you may not be able to find him, were you to look for him all days of your life." Hope, however, is never discouraged. "Fear not, follow me," is his motto, and Hope wins the day. The preparations for the journey are made with all due expedition, passage engaged, and letters of credit secured, farewells are spoken, friends em- braced, and thus about a month after his mother's death, Juan Morales found himself aboard the "Fearless" schooner, en route for New Orleans. A fair wind filled the schooner's sails, and the city of Vera Cruz, the Castle of San Juan de Ulloa, and the roadstead of Sacrificios soon faded out of sight. But Juan did not go forth alone. Father Jos6, his mother's friend, accompanied Juan on his travels. The old priest had, for many years, been an inti- mate friend of the family, and knew J3uan's parents and the circumstances connected With their separa-  tion. For Juan, especially, the old man had always i evinced a great attachment, and had been his teacher for a number of years. It was not strange, therefore, that when the young man resolved to go forth into the world in obedience to his mother's dying request, that Father Jose, regardless of the ?   CHERRY BLOSSOM.       85 sixty years which had silvered his hair, gave up his curacy and its comforts, and resolved to accompany his former pupil. "My dear friend," said Juan, as he stood with the priest on the deck of the schooner, "I shall never be able to repay the obligations I owe to your kindness."' "My son," replied Father Jos6, "I am doing but my duty. There are priests enough without me in Vera Cruz, many of them stronger and more fitted to do the work of the Church. Were I younger I should have remained where I was, but an old-man like me is more in the way among a crowd. They will never miss me in the town, while to you, who have undertaken a most arduous duty, I may yet be of service. I have seen something of the world, my son, and know a little of human character, and may, therefore, be able to help you." "Oh, Father Jose, I almost feel that God has sent you as a ministering angel in my hour of need." "] My son, all men are but instruments in God's hands. All our actions are guided by him to do his will. We come into the world at his bidding, and after having finished in a short life-time the task he has given us to do, we again take our leave at his   86     CHEERRY BLOSSOM. command, to make room for our successors, just as our predecessors did for us. During the short time we are on earth, however, we ought to try to do our duty to God and our fellow-men." "You are right, Father Jose. Our life is but short, and we ought to neglect no opportunity for doing good. How men can commit evil with the consciousness of mortality before them, I cannot perceive." "My dear young friend, it is because they do not think of death, that these men sin. God, however, in his mercy, turns all evil into good, and the sinner himself who commits the evil deed is but an agent in God's hand. I see you smile incredulously, but if you will listen to an old legend, I will make the matter more clear." "Certainly, Father Jose, I should like to hear your legend. I will listen with pleasure." "Thank you, my son. There is no pleasure in telling a story if you have not the ears of your audience. Nothing is -m9re discouraging to an orator than the consciousness that headdresses a lot of people who care nothing for him or his discourse. But now I will tell you the legend. "When Moses ascended the Mount of Sinai, to re-   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        87 ceive the two tablets with the ten commandments inscribed on them, he saw a soldier alight from his horse at a spring. While doing so a bag of gold fell from the saddle of the horse, but the soldier did not perceive his loss, and after having allayed his thirst and watered his steed, he remounted and rode off. The soldier was not gone long when a shepherd boy came to the spring with his flock. The boy saw the bag of gold, and carried it off, doubtless rejoiced at his good fortune. After he was gone, an old man leaning heavily on his stick, so feeble and worn out was he, came to the spring to refresh himself and rest his limbs. As he was sitting down under the shade-trees beside the spring, the soldier who had lost the bag of gold returned. On seeing the old man, he demanded of him the money he had lost. The old man swore by the glories of the sun that le 'had not seen any money. The soldier, however, would not believe him, but becoming exasperated, he drew his sword and plunged it into the old man's heart, killing him instantly. Then Moses lifted up his voice on high, and exclaimed, 'Oh, Father of the Universe, thou all-seeing Judge, wilt thou permit an innocent man to perish?' But then an angel appeared near Moses,   88     CHERRY BLOSSOM. - the law-giver of the children of God, and said: 'Do not accuse the Almighty of permitting any wrong to go unavenged. Know, thou short-sighted man, that the old man whom the soldier has slain,  killed the father of the shepherd-boy, making him an orphan and his mother a widow. The money the boy found was gained by the soldier in battle, and what would have been spent in riotous dissi- pation, will provide for the wants of the widow and hervchiyd.' Thus spoke the angel of God to Moses, and vanished. "You see,' continued Father Jose, "from this simple legend, that God watches over all men, and turns the evil they do into good. But look, my son," said he, rather nervously, and pointing out on the ocean, "do you see anything yonder?" Juan looked, and so did the captain, who ordered a sailor to bring him his glass. The glass was brought and sighted. "It is a boat with people in it," exclaimed Cap- tain Hardy. Mr. Simpson!"  "Aye, aye, sir!" responded the mate. a"Lower the boat, and take three men with you, to bring those people aboard, you see in that boat, yonder."   IIERRY BLOS O M.        89 "Ae, aye, sir!" was again the answers and the boat was lowered. The sailors pulled away with a stout heart and ready will to accomplish their errand of mercy. Every eye on board the vessel was directed toward the boat, which, since the schooner had tacked about, was plainly visible when riding on top of the wave. It seemed an age before the rescuers reached the frail skiff, but at last it was accomplished. The schooner had in the meantime drifted toward the two boats, and now it became apparent that there were four men in the little craft., They seemed as-helpless as infants, owing to-long exposure and want of food, and the mate of the schooner was holding a spirit flask to their lips. "Poor lads!" said the captain to Father Jos6 and Juan Morales, " they have had a narrow escape." "God's mercy is infinite," devoutly ejaculated the priest. "Throw a line, John," now sung out the captain, as at last the boats were within a stone's throw of the schooner. The line was thrown and made fast, and the four shipwrecked men, assisted by the mate and the three sailors, safely reached the schooner's deck. They were too much exhausted to speak,.   90     CHERRY BLOSSOM. and Captain Hardy, the commander of the schooner, had them carried into the cabin and placed in the bunks, in order to give them the necessary rest. The poor fellows have a sad story to tell," said the mate, after the schooner was again under way. "Yes, I have no doubt of it," answered the cap- tain. "We will hear it all to-morrow." I i               A t   CHAPTER XIV. WITH the morrow came the story of the rescued men. One of their number, named John Martin, acted as their spokesman. Mr. Martin was a mer- chant of New York, and had, by business neces- sities been required to make a journ'ey to Tampico. After having finished his affairs there, he had taken passage on board the schooner Eagle, bound from that port to New Orleans. When scarce ten hours out, the schooner sprang a leak, and the captain had endeavored to turn back, but the water had gained so rapidly that they were compelled to take to their boats. The boat in which Mi. Martin had gone was manned by the mate and two sailors, while the captain with the rest of the crew had taken the other boat. At the time of their having been picked up, they had been more than forty-eight i hours out, and had become thoroughly exhausted hy exposure to the great tropical heat. "You had a narrow escape, Mr. Martin," said *     91   92     o HE RRY B L LOSSO M. * Captain Hardy, after hearing his guest's narrative, "but as you were bound for New Orleans, I am    i glad to have your company. Meanwhile consider  my wardrobe at your disposal."            "I shall certainly avail myself of your kindness,"  was Mr. Martin's reply, "and moreover will pay for whatever my companions in misfortune may re-  quire."                        "Oh, we never make any charge in a case of this kind," said Captain Hardy. "Your com- panions will be amply provided for." "I am glad to hear it, and will ever be grateful to you as the preserver of our lives, and when you come to New York next time, Captain Hardy, my house shall be open to you and your two friends," remarked Mr. Martin, alluiing to Juan Morales and Father Jos6. "There is little likelihood of my going east for some time to come, but these two gentlemen are bound to New York, and as they are strangers in the country, they will doubtless be glad of your company, Mr. Martin," observed the captain. "Most certainly," said Juan and his Mentor, being favorably impressed with Mr. Martin's ap- pearance and manners.    OHERRY BLOSSOM.        93 "It is a bargain," exclaimed Martin, "as far as I am concerned." "Spoken like a true Yankee," smilingly re- marked Captain Hardy.  I "There, isf no denying one's own country," answered Martin ; "though it is many a year since I bade farewell to Cape Cod, I shall always re- member that day as long as I live.- You see, I was the oldest of the children. We were fourteen of us, nine boys and five girls. Father was poor, and we were put out to work as soon as we were old enough. I used to pick stones out of the fields for twenty cents a day, and when father was taken sick with the rheumatism, and laid for many a month a helpless cripple, those twenty cents were our only support. I stood it as long as I could, but somehow or other I got an idea into my head that I could make a fortune in, New York; though how this should be done, I had no more thought of than the man in the moon. After father got better, and Jim and Tom, my' brothers next to me, were able to help, I got more decided than ever, till at last, one evening as we were done eating supper, says I, "' Father, I'm going to New York.' "I had spoken this so quietly and determinedly,   "    CHEERRY BLOSSOM. that my father, for a few moments, was quite taken aback.  "'Are you, John?' he finally asked, looking me A steadily in the eye.  "'Yes, I am, father,' says I.        - "'Poor John I what will you do in New York ' asked my mother, incredulously. "'Anything to make an honest living.'  "' Well, John,' says my father, 'it is but right - that you should have a chance to see the world and  to do something for yourself; I am a poor man, and can give you next to nothing to start you out, but good advice. Mother shall make up your bundle, and you can go next Monday morning.'  "'Thank you, father,' says I, and the tears burst  forth now, for really I could not keep from crying, both for joy and sorrow. Mother also cried a  good deal as well as my sisters. But their crying did not keep me at home any more after that Sun- day. The next Monday morning father called me aside and gave me a three-dollar bill; the old man could hardly speak when he gave it to me, but I  took it with tears of joy. I knew he could not give  me more, and it was worth more to me than I should now regard a thousand. Mother gave me    I v.   CHEBR  Y BLOSSOM.      95 my bundle, and also slipped fifty cents into my pocket, and so I started off to New York. I was nearly four' days on the way, but travelling afoot is cheaper than on horseback, or in the coach, as the people in those days used to travel, and I marched into the city with the untouched three dollar bill in my pocket. It was a weary day that witnessed my coming to the city, for I had no friends and no place, and hardly any money. Thinks I, ' Now you must look out for a place;' so I put my bundle into a baker's shop near the ferry, and went to look about in the stores. I called at over a hundred, asking if they could not give me work, but the people, all laughed at me, and I got so discouraged that I almost felt like crying. Just a little before dark,/however, I came to a. store in Pearl street, where they had some boxes out in front, and as I passed I heard an old gentleman say, to a young lad near him. "Charles, get some one to bring those boxes in the store before dark.'. "The old man's words were like a shock of light- ning to mp. 'Now or never,' thinks I, and I steps up to the old man, and says, "' Please, sir, give me the job.' s      ' .         1-l    96     CHER RY BLOSSOM.  "' How much do you want 2' he asks. "'Anything you are willing to give,' I answered, The old man looked at me for a moment, as if to read my face, and then he said, 'Go ahead.' So I took off my coat, and it seemed to me as if I had new life given to me. I did not feel tired a bit, and after an hour's work the boxes were in the store. The old man, who with his son had been watching, then called me into his office and asked me my name and where I lived. So I told him the whole story how I had come to New York to make my fortune. I could see it pleased him, the way I talked, and when I had done, he said if I liked I might stay in the store and learn the busi- ness. I could have kissed the old man's feet, I felt so glad. I did not make a bargain, for I knew the old man would deal honestly with me. He asked me when I could come, and I said right away, as soon as I could get my bundle from the baker's. "'You may go and fetch it, then, and Charles will go with you, for fear you might get lost.' "Ere night came, I was thus installed in my new situation with Mr. Blossom-that was my employer's name-and I never had cause to regret it. The old man acted truly a father's part with me, while   ( H E R R Y B L S M.     97 his son Charles became my most intimate friend. From shop-boy and, porter, I rose to be partner in the concern, and was enabled to lend a helping hand to my relations at home. Pool Mr. Blossom has been dead now many years, and his son Charles was killed nearly ten years ago on a railroad. It was a frightful death, and while I was out on the sea in the open boat, before you rescued us, captain, I had poor Charles's fate before me in my mind. Not that I was not ready to die, but I Was thinking of the old woman and the little ones at home." "Well, Mr. Martin, I hope you will, be at home shortly; at the rate we are going now, we ought to make the Pass by to-morrow dinner-time, and from there to New York, it ought not to take you more than a fortnight.'" "About that time, I reckon. I am glad, how- ever, to have companions on the way," remarked Mr. Martin, in reply to Captain Hardy, "and hope to be able to pilot your passengers safe to New York." "That is just what we want," said Juan Morales, "and I am sure Father Jose and myself will be under great obligations to you for your kindness."  "Not at all; one good turn, you see, deserves another. If the old gentleman, your friend, had 5   98     CHERRY BLOSSOM.              i not kept a sharp lookout and seen the boat, I  might be now down Davy Jones's locker, as the sailors say, instead of on my way home. I owe you, therefore, my life and everything, and my services,  and all that my house can afford, shall be at your service. "Thank you, Mr. Martin," answered Father Jose, good humoredly, " we shall not fail to avail our-  selves of your kindness. I am never backward in accepting favors, while travelling. A traveller is somewhat of a privileged character, standing as he does as the self-constituted representative of his city  or town, in the places he visits, and as Juan and  I are such representatives of the heroic city of  Vera Cruz, it would be wrong in us to decline     i courtesies and favors which we would be most     eager to offer to strangers in our own country."  "Certainly, travellers ought to be privileged  persons," remarked Captain Hardy, "for it is to them  we owe most of our knowledge of foreign countries   [ or nations, and if there are a few whose Notes do   , not please us, still the greater part are, I believe, f  lovers of truth, and even when I was a boy, it  seemed to me always a pleasure to listen to stories  about foreign countries."  i          ^        "'^J   CHE-RY BLOSSOM.        99 I have never been much of a traveller myself," said Mr. Martin, "but I always like to read a good book of travels. When I was younger, I had not much chance to travel, and now that I am getting old, I like home better than any place else." "This is quite natural," remarked the priest, " to a man who has family ties to bind him to his home, and to render it agreeable and pleasant; but to such a vieux garpon, as the French say, as myself, one place is almost as good as another, and my com- panion here, who has not yet seen the world, and is young in years, will find travelling vastly more agreeable than staying at home, even though it is a pleasant one." "No telling tales out of school, Father Jose," laughingly observed Juan Morales. "Never mind," said Captain Hardy. 4 Mr. Mora- les, when you go back to Vera Cruz with me, leave the padre in the States, just to punish him, and bring in-his place a bright-eyed Yankee girl back with you, to share your home." "Good for you, captain," said Mr. Martin. I am agreed," said Father Jose, smiling, and the conversation came to an end.  f   CHAPTER XV. A FIVE days' voyage brought the Fearless to the Southwest Pass, and gave to Juan Morales his first glance of a foreign country. Not so with Father Jose. The priest had, in his younger days, been a great traveller. He had hunted with the red man when the Lake country was a dense forest, or an un- broken prairie. Where the iron horse now anni- hilates hundreds of miles from the borders of Lake Michigan to the headwaters of the Mississippi, he had travelled on foot; unabashed by danger or perils, he had gone, a soldier of the cross, single- handed and unarmed, into the wilderness. He had descended the Father of Rivers from the Falls of St. Anthony to the Balize, had lived and worked in New Orleans, left there, to preach the Christian faith to Indians in Chihuahua, and had finally settled down inVera Cruz. After a repose of many years, he was now going back, as counsellor and guide to his young friend, to the hunting- 100   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        101 grounds of his own youth. Juan Morales could not have found a better cicerone, and a more agreeable companion, than Father Jos6; and Mr. Martin, who, it had been agreed, was to bear them company as far as New York, was perfectly delighted with the old man's manners and conversation. The three travellers remained but a few days in New Orleans, Juan devoting most of the time in fruitless endeavors to learn any facts calculated to further the discovery of his father, and had to con- sole himself with the hope that he might be more successful in New York. Taking passage on one of the river packets, they soon left the metropolis of the South. Though the scenery along the lower Mississippi is too uniform and spiritless, when com- pared with that along the upper part of the river, or of many other streams, to the young man now for the first time in his life making a river voyage, it was not uninteresting, and Father Jose's powers of description were often called into requisition by his young companion. "These yellow, muddy waves," said the priest, when Juan expressed his astonishment at the pecu- liar color, 'take their rise high up among the Rocky Mountains, traversing hundreds of miles.   102    CHERuIY BLOSSOM It is there the Missouri, a wild, turbulent stream, colors the placid, clear waters of the Missis- sippi at its junction. These waves, the arteries of life to millions, come from the cold regions of the Northwest, where the trapper seeks for pel- tries, to the sunny sugar lands of Louisiana. Thousands of craft are now ploughing their way through them, upward and downward, laden with fruits of all climes, and productions of all countries. The hydrographical basin which this river and its tributaries constitute, displays to a reflecting nmind fte greatness of God's works. Throughout its entire length, its banks, its islands, its lakes and its bends, you can but admire the magnificence and gigantic powerof the Creator. The mighty forests which skirt its borders, count their trees by thou- sands, and before the white man drove the Indian from his hunting-grounds, the mighty army of trees formed an almost uninterrupted line along the river banks. Civilization, however, has cleared a large part of the dense forest. The green fields and their golden harvest, have taken the place of the giant oaks and their rustling leaves. The axe of the pioneer has made the echo resound with its heavy blows along the Father of Waters, while a thriving,   CHErRY BLOSSOM.       103 and, I hope, a happy people, are busy from day to day with their appointed work, where the red man hunted the deer, proud in his prowess, and almost unconscious of the all-presence of- Him to whom all ought to bow. When I see the changes which have transformed this land from a vast wilderness to a splendid garden, I feel proud of my fellow- men." "Why, Father Jose," said Juan, smiling, "( you are a more ardent eulogist of the Yankees than I thought you were." "My dear son," replied the priest, "I am not so blinded by narrow, national prejudice as to be una- ble to discern superior merit in another nation. Doubtless the people of the United States have many faults, but great and numerous as these may be, they are overbalanced by their good qualities. The United States is emphatically a land of law and order, while our own unhappy country presents a sad spectacle of anarchy, and has been for more than twenty years a prey to a few military leaders. The republic exists with us but in name, furnishing a cloak for a government which might not be in- aptly called d-despotism. But I 'hope that a better day is yet to come; sooner or later, Mexico will form   104    CHERRY BLOS SOM. a part of the great North American Union, and then the country will improve and flourish." "I agree with you," said Mr. Martin; "Mexico at present is almost too weak to stand alone. Its government is now unable to perform the functions for which human- governments are instituted, to protect life and property, and when once a govern- ment ceases to do that, its days are numbered." "I perceive I shall be left in an inglorious mi- nority," laughingly observed the young man, " and I only hope that should the padre's prediction be verified, Mexico 'will be happier and more prosper- ous than she is now." "Undoubtedly she will," replied Mr. Martin, "and I hope that the day is not far off. All this country you see," he continued, pointing to the western side of the river, "was an unbroken wilder- ness till it came under Anglo-American govern- ment. Mr. Jefferson bought the whole country from the French for some eight millions of dollars, and now it'has increased a thousand fold in value." "Yes," said the priest, "well do I remember coming down this stream nearly forty years ago, in a rude, uncomfortable flat. There were then but few clearings, and cities which now count their in-   CU  RRY BLOSSOM.       105 habitants by thousands had but a handful of citi- zens. St. Louis. was known as a little French settlement below Alton, while Cincinnati had not as yet been put down on the maps.'" "Were you ever in St. Louis or Cincinnati?" asked Mr. Martin. "Yes sir," replied Father Jose. "Then you will be' surprised to "see the rapid advances these two cities have made." Surprised and delighted was Father Jos, as, on their way to the East, they stopped for a few days at each of these cities. Mr. Martin constituted himself the cicerone of the party, and was unwearied in his attentions to his two companions, who were duly grateful for his exertions. At the suggestion of the priest, they paid a visit to the public schools during their sojourn in Cincinnati, and Martin, who was an ardent advocate of the common school system, was loud in its praise. "The people of this country," said he, after they had finished their visit, "are nearly unanimous in favor of free schools. Without education liberty cannot exist. In a country like this, every citizen has a share in its government, and it is the duty of the government to impart to its embryo citizens thex 5* -   106    o fiE IUr B LOS SOM. proper and requisite knowledge of self-government. Education is necessary to make our children good citizens. Without it they would not be able to fulfill their political duties intelligently. The republics of Greece and Rome, though arts and sciences were not neglected by them, forgot to educate the lower classes, the bone and sinew of the country. Instead of doing this, they appeased their appetite and occupied their leisure hours by gladiatorial displays. Demagogues courted the favor of the rabble by mammoth feasts, and corrupted the virtue of the people by making them idle and dissolute. Demo- cracy, as a consequence, degenerated into anarchy and the republic became an easy prey to a few shrewd and dissolute leaders. When Caesar became the acknowledged master of Rome, the old weather- beaten edifice of Freedom had been long ago un- dermined, and could not have stood much longer even if such a person as Julius Caesar had never existed. Marius, Sylla, Catiline, Pompey and others had long ago' commenced the work of de- struction, and Csesar only finished it. But this substitution of despotism for freedom would never have happened, had the great mass of the Roman people been intelligent and educated citizens. Such    cHI RY BLOSSOM.        107 Ien would never have sold their birthright, and would never have become willixg tools to aid in the downfall of their great commonwealth." "Your views in regard to education," said Father Jose, who had listened attentively, "certainly coincide with those I entertain. Your common school system, however, is liable to a most serious fault." "What is that, sir?" asked Mr. Martin. "It totally ignores religious instruction." "I know," replied Mr. Martin, " that this charge has been made by the clergy of most all denomina- tions. But I do not see how this can be bettered. In a country where church and state are combined, or where its inhabitants are all of the same faith, religious instruction can safely be combined with secular education, but with us in the States, where every man is permitted to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience, and where no particular creed-has the preference over any other, itis an impossible matter. Catholics would not send their children to schools where they would learn the tenets of the Protestant faith, while the Protestant parent would consider it sinful to have   108    CHERRY BLOSSOM. his ofspring instructed in the Catholic schools. Besides, the establishment of sectarian schools by the State, would be in violation of the Constitution. The religious instruction of our children is left to their parents and to the clergy. Catholic and Pro- testant Sunday Schools supply the need, and the clergy of all denominations, while they. have no control over the secular education of the pupils of the public schools, are not debarred from giving all the needful religious instruction to the young mem- bers of their faith." "However beneficial this system may be," in- terposed the priest, "I cannot give it my unquali- fied support, as, in myf opinion, the state weakens the cause of religion by totally ignoring it." "But does religion need the power of government to support it?" asked Juan Morales. "Undoubtedly," replied Father Jos6. "I must beg leave to differ from you in this," resumed Mr. Martin. "True religion, firmly im- pressed in the hearts of a God-fearing people, needs no support from the secular power. All that reli- gion does want is freedom of toleration, and that our Constitution guarantees to all."   HI E RRY BLOSSOM.      109 "This is the true republican doctrine," said'Juan Morales. "I only hope that this freedom of toleration may never afford licentiousness an opportunity to claim the garb of religion," replied Father Jose. I   CHAPTER XVI.  TaE preparations for John Blossom's pleasure trip to Europe had been nearly completed, when they were suddenly interrupted. Cherry had fallen sick. The stillness of death, almost, reigned in the house on Franklin street for many days. Uncle John never knew, before, the intensity with l which he loved his young niece. The greatest part of the day he passed near her bedside, barely allowing himself a few hours' rest.. Anxiously he consulted the attending physician, and his heart beat with tumultuous pleasure when that gentle- man at last was able to announce the appearance of favorable symptoms, and hold out strong hopes for the speedy recovery of his fair patient. Cherry Blossom was declared out of danger. The fever had subsided, and the young invalid had fallen into a calm and peaceful slumber. Almost mo- tionless,' and breathing low, she slept for hours, while John Blossom, with tender anxiety, scanned "O   CHERRY BLOS SOM.       11l the countenance of the fair patient. At last he sees a smile flitting across her face, and she opens her eyes.  "He is not here," she utters if a tone of vexa- tion; but suddenly looking round and perceiving the watcher near her bedside, she smiles again, and says:  "Oh, Uncle John, I had such a pleasant dream i" "What was it, my dear" - "But you will only laugh if I tell you my dream?" "I am sure you do not wish me to cry." "Oh, not for all the world. I am afraid,how- ever, that you may think me simple." "It is better to be simple, Cherry, than artful. You may tell me your dream, my dear, and if I don't believe in it, at least I will not laugh at youl." "Thank you, Uncle John. I know you are no great believer in dreams, but if you will only listen, I will tell you mine, I thought I saw an angel come to me and kiss me on the forehead, and beside the angel was a young man, Uncle John, who looked like the picture you told me was taken of you in your younger days. The angel, I   "2    CEIIRRY BLOSSOM.  dreamed, said, 'I will send him to you,' and then was gone, with his companion. I know, Uncle John, this is a foolish dream, but somehow or other [ I could not help telling it to you. You must not  blame me." "Of course I shall not, dear Cherry. Only     : keep quiet now and go to sleep, else the doctor will blame us both. Good bye, dear; take care oqf  yourself;" and after kissing his niece, he left the 4 room,  Slowly he descended the stairs, repeating to himself Cherry's words, "I will send him to you," and the next moment, after chiding himself for attaching any importance to a dream, yet still thinking of it, he left the house, after giving a few  directions regarding his niece to Mrs. Finch.  The old lady (we beg her pardon for having ne-  glected her so long) had been immersed in trouble : ever since Miss Cherry had taken to her room, evincing the most tender care for the fair invalid, .j and she felt overjoyed as she heard from the doc- tor's lips the comforting assurance that Cherry was out of danger. Mrs. Finch rubbed her hands in  high glee, and acted so strange in her joy that even her master would have remarked it, had his  . mind not been preoccupied by Cherry's dream,   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        113 and the housekeeper thus had no opportunity to express her joy to him. Htappily in this emer- gency, Mrs. Finch had a call from a neighbor, and the call opened the floodgate of conversation. "How is Miss Cherry to-day "' inquired Mrs. Rae. Thank you, Mrs. Rae; Cherry is getting better, and will soon be out. The fever is broke, and all she wants now is to get strength." "Well, I am really glad to hear it. I love the dear child." "No one can help loving Miss Cherry," said Mrs. Finch. "And she has seen trouble enough, young though she be." "You can surely say that, Mrs. Rae. I well recollect the time when she 'first came to this house to live, after that dreadful railroad accident. It was some weeks before she got over it." "Mr. Blossom ought to have sent her to school." "The poor child," said Mrs. Finch, "was too sick and feeble, and so I taught her hei letters till Master John hired a French lady to give her lessons. Some years ago Mr. Blossom had an idea of sending Miss Cherry to a young ladies' board-   "4    CHERRY BLOSSOM. ing school in New Jersey, but these institutions I have no great liking for, so many young ladies, you see, go there now-a-days. They learn there how to dance, play on the harp and the piano, and the Lord knows how many other accomplishments. Afterward they graduate, have diplomas like our doctors, and they come out to shine in society. They crowd the'ball-room and the parlor, and have only one object in view, and that is to get married. They will occupy their time in useless flirtation, while they should be employed in taking care of the house. The kitchen they never see during the whole course of their life. Lord help the poor man who marries such a womann It is just like buying a fine piece of furniture to put into your parlor in order to make a show, and that is about all. It is a good thing Cherry never went to one of these academies." "Did she want to go?" asked Mrs. Rae. "Well, Cherry did have a sorter likin' for it. You see, Mr. Martin, her father's old partner, had hs daughters there at the time, and they were about the only children she knew. Besides, the poor girl was lonely at first when she came here, and didn't quite understand her Uncle John's ways.   OHERRY BLOSSOM..       115 But there was no use saying any more about it after Mr. Blossom had decided that she should not go. He is so headstrong; indeed the whole family are." "Cherry, I suppose, did not like it." "The child took it hard at first, but she was then too much afraid of her uncle to say anything. So, like a sensible girl as she is, she kept on with her lessons at home, and quite surprised us with the progress she made. Mr. Blossom was so pleased with her that he grudged her no expense. Cherry one day, for instance, said she would like to learn  music, and the next day she was surprised at find- ing a new and costly piano in her room, which her uncle had bought expressly for her. She has a sweet voice, and plays excellently well. I have seen Mr. John (and he is a great judge of music) listen to her playing, like one perfectly entranced, so that he did not see or mind anything else going on." "Mr. Blossom is a queer man," observed Mrs. Rae. "Well," replied Mrs. Finch, "he is certainly curious in his way, but we are all more or less so. People who don't know him as well as I do, think   "6    ceIIERY BLOSSOM. he is cold and unfeeling, but it isn't so. There isn't a kinder soul in all New York. When he was a boy, not higher than that table, I always re- marked it in him. He was a mighty saving child, but when there was a beggar at the door Master John would always have a penny. His father said he would not be surprised to see him become a minister. Even now he does a great deal of good. He never shows it, though, and doesn't like people to talk about it. From the way he acts sometimes, you'd think that he hates the world and everybody in it. He will shut himself up for hours in his room, and think on the Lord knows what. If I wasn't such a coward I should have wished to talk to lim about it, and tell hin that it is no use for him to carry on in that way. I often think in my heart that if he had only some one to speak to, to whom he could tell what seems to afflict him, he would feel a great deal better than he does. Instead of that he keeps his trouble back from the world, and finds himself more miserable. And at times the poor man is so full of sorrow and anguish, that he will take to his room and pray on his knees. He doesn't know that I have ever seen him that way, but, you see, one day he forgot to shut his   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        117 door, as he was in the habit of doing. I was all taken back when I saw him. There was something so solemn and holy, and yet so touching and pitiful in his manner, that I cannot help crying when I think of it." "Poor man, he is to be. pitied." "You may well say that, Mrs. Rae. It is not riches which can make a man happy, may he have ever so much. If happiness depended on money, John Blossom would be happy. I often think that it was a great blessing in God to send Cherry to this house. She is almost the only thing master John cares for." H"He is, no doubt, greatly attached to her." ' He loves her as much as a father can love his own flesh and blood. There is'nothing in the world she may wish for, which he does not try to gratify her in." "Does Cherryqike her uncle as much?" Indeed she does. Though when she came first, she was not used to his ways, and a kinder afraid of him. You ought to see her now. No daughter can take better care of her father or mother than that girl does of Mr. Blossom. She will not even allow me to iron his shirts. As soon as he   "8    CHERRY BLOSSOM. comes home, she will bring him his dressing-go an and his slippers, hang up his coat and hat, and do anything else he wants her to do. Then she will read for him, or play and sing, or talk, and so pass away the time. The evenings now go by quicker, and master John feels a great deal more contented than he used to do. I am sorry myself, when the clock strikes nine, and prayers are said, and we go to our rooms." "You would be quite lonesome, were Miss Cherry to marry." "That's true enough, Mrs. Rae." "Well, girls like Miss Blossom, who are both handsome and rich, have not to wait long for a husband." "Yes, that's a fact, half of the young men in the neighborhood would not oject to having such a wife. But Mr. Blossom is rather strict in that re- spect, and does not like to have Cherry make too many acquaintances. He would not even allow her to go to a ball last winter." "I thipk Mr, Blossom is right enough there. Our young women now-a-days, and our young men also, lead too much a life of gaiety and dissipation, which, while it interferes often with the ordinary   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        119 pursuits of life, is not unfrequently attendf with loss of health, and is also hard enough on many a young man's purse. A night of pleasure is dearly purchased, when you have to stint yourself a week afterward." "Yes, yes, you are right. A little of that sort of enjoyment will go a great ways," answered Mrs. Finch, as her visitor rose to take her leave. Well, good bye, you lllst call again." The house-keeper went to Cherry's room after Mrs. Rae left, and found the patient sitting up in bed. "Why, Cherry, this will never do," was Mrs. Finch's exclamation. Your Uncle John says you must lie quiet, else you will never get well." "Oh yes, I will, Mother Finch. But I am so tired I I wish Mrs. Martin would come." "Here she is," was the answer, and the door opened to admit Mr. John Blossom, and a lady about forty:years of age, whose cheerful counte- nance acted like a charm on Cherry. "I am so glad you are here," the young girl said, as her friend bent over the bed and kissed her." "Bless me, Cherry!" replied Mrs. Martin, "I just came home with the girls to-day, and did not   120    OHERRY BLOSSOM  know that you had been sick, till I met your uncle in the street. -He says he's going to take you to Europe, when you get well." ' I wish you could go with us." ( I wish so too; but Mr. Martin wpuld iever go, and so I will have to stay here. But you must come and stay a week or two with me before you go. Your uncle, I am sure, will agree to this." "Will you, Uncle John?" asked Cherry. "Yes, my dear." "Oh, that will be so nice!" "And your uncle can come, too." "No, Mrs. Martin, this is impossible. As soon as Cherry is able to leave the room, I shall have to go to Boston for a furtnight, to settle up some business there. While I am gone, Cherry may stay with you till my return, and after that ie shall be off."  "Well, beggars must not be choosers," said Mrs. Martin, "so I must be contented to have Cherry with me. I'hope she will be able to leave the room in a few days, and I will send the carriage for her as soon as you let me know that she can come. The girls will be delighted to have you, with them. What a pity Mr. Martin has not come back yet!"   CHEERy B]3LO     M.    121 "It is almost time for his return," said Mr. Blos. som. Htave you heard from him lately?" "Not, a word since he arrived at Tampico. I am really beginning to be anxious for him." Oh, I dare say he wil be here sooner than you expect." ' Well, I hope so," 'Mrs. Martin replied, and after arranging with Oherry and SMr. Blossom the neces- Bary appointments for Cherry's visit to her country. house, took her leave. y ,   strenath was as sed *  - h    M  *r M  r    Chrr - wit CHAPTER XVII. OCEIBY BLOSSOM'S restoration to health and strength was as speedy as even the solicitude of John Blossom could desire. A fortnight after Mrs. Martin's visit, she was able to fulfill the promise she had made to that lady, of spending a few days at her house. Mrs. Martin received Cherry' with open arms, and only regretted her husband's absence, who, she declared, was an excellent hand to drive around the country and entertain his guests with descriptions of everything worth know-  ing. Mrs. Martin herself, however, did ample justice to the duties of a hostess. Her country- house, while it was accessible to the city, thanks to the distance-annihilating qualities of a railroad, yet possessed all the essential requirements to make a rural fireside pleasant. The farm, though-a small  one, was highly cultivated and productive, the  orchard and the gardens were unsurpassed by any in the neighborhood. It was strange and surpris- 122   CHERRY B LSSO     .    123 ing how Mr. Martin, notwithstanding the arduous duties which engaged his attention in the city, had found time to create a garden- out of what was as wilderness when he bought this place as his home- stead. The farmers around him had shaken their heads rather doubtfully when they watched his be- ginnings, but their doubts had speedily given way to wonder, and also created a zeal for similar im- provements on their own farms. Cherry was enchanted with the place, and was free to declare that if her Uncle John had such a farm, she would not desire to leave it, even for a. sit to Europe; I::t is really a pity, Cherry," said Mrs. Martin, as they were sitting together in the parlor one day, "that you cannot stay with us; Mr. Blossom, I dare say, could get along very well in Europe, alone." "Oh, no," hastily replied the young girl; "I could not think of leaving Uncle John; and I am sure he would not be willing that I should stay while he was gone." "But, my dear, you will have -to leave your uncle one of these days. Suppose you were going to get married?" "Don't talk of it, Mrs. Martin; Uncle John says   124    OJ3RcaERY BLOQSSOM. there is plenty of time yet for that. He thinks I am too young yet, and had better wait a "Then you have not yet picked out a lover?" "Oh yes," replied Cherry, smiling; "I saw him in a dream." '( In a dream! H ow is that?" I am almost afraid to tell. Uncle John says it is foolish to believe in dreams." "Maybe it is, but I would like to hear you tell your dream, I will bet you a pair of gloves that your TTUcle John knows it." "Oh, you would win the gloves, for I told it to him, and I don't mind telling it to you. It was the day you came to see me when I was sick, that I dreamed an angel wa standing at my bedside, and A young man was with him,  heard the angel say, 'I will send him to you.' y "And this young gentleman with the angel, was he good-looking "  "Remarkably so." "Anzd you think th t your lover will beof the exact description as the young man you saw in the  dream " Maybe and maybe not," replied Cherry, laugh- *  .       t   cHE   Y BL   OSSOM.    125 ing. "Still, however foolish it may be, I cannot help believing in this dream." "Well, it is a most extraordinary one,at all events.",  "I think so." "And if no lover answering this description appears, I suppose you will live and die an old maid," said Mrs. Martin. "That is more than I can say at present." "It would be too bad, Cherry, if this lover were to leave you in the lurch, and not come at all." "   Oh, I am certain he will come." "Then, I wish he would come soon, for I would like to dance at your wedding." fi .    , ;/   *N-         4 CHAPTER XVIII. CHERRY had been about a week at Mrs. Martin's, when that usually quiet household was agreeably  disturbed by the return of Mr. John Martin. He was accompanied by two gentlemen, whom he in- troduced as Mr. Juan Morales and Father Jos6 Pereira. Mrs. Martin now learned, for the first time, the imminent peril her husband had been in, of his timely rescue, and how it was owing mainly to Father Jos6 that he was yet alive. " d1 not this worthy man, Molly," said Mr. Martin," seen our poor boat, I should not now be with you. We certainly owe to him and to Mr. Morales an everlasting debt of gratitule,; and I know you will exert yourself as much as possible to make their stay with us an agreeable one. You, Miss Blossom, also," continued he, tuirning to Cher- ry, " sall be pressed into service, I am going to - 12            CHERRY BLOSSOM.        127 place this young gentleman under your charge. Allow me to introduce you." Cherry's cheeks during the introduction turned red and pale alternately. In her excited imagina- tion she thought she discovered the young man she had seen in the dream, and though almost in- stantly chiding herself, her manner was somewhat confused as she shook hands with Mr. Morales, and he hoped that they would become better acquainted. Mrs. Martin, after bidding her guests a frank and heartfelt welcome, soon left the parlor to provide a room for the accommodation of her new guests, leaving them in charge of Mr. Martin and Miss Blossom. A short time sufficed for the execution of the necessary arrangements and the new comers were speedily installed by Martin under his hospita- ble roof.          .  "Well, Cherry," said Mrs. Martin to Miss Blos- som, as- they -were left alone in the parlor, "what do you think of the young gentleman!" '"What do I think?" dubiously inquired Cherry. "Yes, you sly puss; is he anything like the one you did dream of?"  '"A little, I think," hesitating answered the ydung lady.    128    CHERRY BLOSSOM. "What if you were to marry him- really? I be- lieve, after all, there is something in dreams. Who would have thought 4it? I must tell John Martin of it."        ^  "I hope you will not, Mrs. Martin," Cherry now- exclaimed with alacrity. "You foolish child," replied Mrs. Martin, smiling, "what harm would it possibly be, were John to know it?"  "Oh, please don't tell.' "Since you wish me not to do so, I shall not say a word of it. But really, how do you like the young man's appearance e" "I can't say, for I had but an imperfect view of him," said Cherry, with a blush. "Now don't you think .he-is. a noble-looking man  I noticerihe has fine eyes, and his forehead looks very intellectual." You have the advantageover me in this respect; I did not notice the young man as much as the old gentleman with him." Ere Mrs. Martin could reply, her husband re- turned to the parlor, and joined in the conversation, giving his wife fuller particulars of his voyage, and concluding-with giving a most favorable descrip-   C H ER RY 'BLOSSOM.      129 tion of his two companions, and enjoining on his wife to take the best possible care of them. "Of course, I shall, John," said she; " but don't you think the young man would be a good match for Cherry " "There, Molly, stop teasing the girl. You are an inveterate match-maker." "See, Cherry, how quick Mr. Martin can take your part against me. Never mind, I will dance at your wedding yet." At dinner, Cherry could not urge the excuse of having no opportunity of seeing Mr. Morales, since Mrs. Martin placed the young stranger at her side, telling her she must take good care of him. The young man certainly felt no displeasure at having sofair a neighbor, and exerted himself to the utmost to entertain her. Cherry also became interested more and more, as the ice of reserve, with which polite society shrouds itself on first introductions, gradually melted away -She soon listened with pleasure to her new companion, not even noticing the archlook of Mrs. Martin, who, amid her duties as a hostess, yet frfnd time to witness the resulof th tzte-dtte. ' The dinner being over, Mr.- tn with his guests adjourned to the drawing-ro 'd o    130    O HEBRY BLOSSOM.  Cherry again found herself--but this time not against her inclination-seated on the sofa near the young stranger, and was loath to relinquish her seat when Mr. Martin led her to the piano. / Cher- ry's performance gained her a well-merited compli- ment from every one, but Father Jos6 was espe- ciallywa m in his commendation.  "My dear young lady," said that worthy men, after she had stopped; "you play like an angel."    i "Do angels play!" asked Cherry, archly. "If they do, it cannot be more excellent than Miss Blossomhas done," gallantly answered Juan Morales. "Were I to heed your praise, sir, I fear that I should become vain. Uncle John says flattery is the greatest corrupter of the heart.." "But, my dear, young lady," said Father Jos6, "I say, without the least desire to flatter you, that your performance was more than excellent. Music is a divine gift, more precious than gold and silver, and is but rarely nd id in its true excellence. I have always beenv a great admirer of music, in com- mon with the rest of my family. I had a sister who has been dead many years. She was aninvalid for  -a long time, and had no earthly pleasure save to   j hear music, if that enjoyment may be :called an   CH ER  Y BLOSSOM.       131 earthly pleasure. She was passionately fond of it, and the poor girl actually died in my arms while my brother was playing Mozart's Requiem for her. Music, I believe, is indispensable to the existence of man, since even among the most savage tribes, as well as among the most cultivated nations, we find the culture of this art." "None knew this as well as the ancients," 'said Mrs. Martin, now taking a part in the conversation. "I can never forget Ovid's description of the power of Orpheus, the first master of song of whom his- tory tells, and Shakspeare's allusion to Orpheus and the power of music in the Merchant of Venice, I know yet by heart."' "Come, let us hear it," said Mr. Martin. "I will rather let Cherry read it,' his wife re- plied, putting the volume into Miss Blossom's hand, -and asking her to read the passage. Cherry would have refused to give this second exhibition, but see- ing it would be in vain, she read the passage in her clear,. melodious voice: "Jessica' I'm never merry when I hear sweet music. Lorengo. The reason is your spirits are attentive; * Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 1.   132      OHE RRRY   B LO   O soM. 'For do but note a wild and Wanton herd,  Or race of youthful andn nhandled colts, Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing-loud (Which is the hot condition of their blood),  If they perchance but hear a trumpet sound,  Or any air of music touch- thei ears  You shall erceive them make a mutnl stand, Their savage eyes turned to a modest gaze By the sweet power of music. Therefore the poet  Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones and floods,  Since naught so stockish, haqd and full of rage,  But music, for the time, doth change his nature. The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not mov'd with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils; The motions of his spirit are dull as night, And his affections darl as Erebus.  Let no such man be trusted."  "All that Shakspeare says here   is true," said  Father Jos6, as Cherry finished reading, "and I           i verily believe that the man who does not love music,  does not deserve to live onGod's broad earth. Music  is not only a pleasure'but it is also a necessity.  We need music to solace and comfort us.   Is it hot men-  tioned in the Bible, that Saul had David to playfor  him on the harp, whenever his angry moments came, in order to chase away the spirit of evil!, Shak-   CHERRY    BLOSSOM.        133 speare is not alone among the poets to bear witness to the soothing influence of music.   If I recollect aright, another of your great English bards, Ed- mund Spenser, describing the bower of bliss in the Fairy Queen, speaks of music in this Paradise of his fancy as "A most delicious sound Of all that might delight a dainty ear, Such as at once might not on living ground, Save in this Paradise, be heard elsewhere; Right hard it was for wight which did it hear To read what manner music,that might be : For all that pleasing is to living ear Was there consorted in one harmony-- Birds, voices, instruments, winds, waters, all agree."   CHAPTER XIX. "C ow do you like Miss Blossom " asked Juan Morales of the priest, after the two had retired to their room that evening. "to tell you the truth, my dear Juan, I am en- chanted with her. I have seen few women in my life-time who have delighted me as, much at first sight. She has the grace of a duchess, while she bewitches one like a gipsy." "Do you know if she is related to Mr. Martin?" No; I believe not. Mr. Martin, if I understood him right, said she was the orphan of his late part- ner." "Ah, that's it. I suppose she is living with the Martins. They seem to treat her like a daughter." "You seem to be all at once interested in the young lady," good humoredly said the priest. ("No more than you are, Father Jos6." "Perhaps not, but to relieve your distress, I will tell you that Miss Blossom resides with heri uncle, ,154   /  ./ CHERRY BLOSSOM.        135 an agus-eyed, crusty, rich, old bachelor, whose special delight is, so Mr. Martin told me, to guard his niece, especially from good-looking young men, and who shuts her up very much like a treasure." ' I cannot blame him. The presence of such a woman in a house is a- treasure indeed." "You appear not at all unwilling, Juan, to relieve the old man of his treasure. I believe that you are already in love with the fair American." "I deny the charge, Father Jose. I am not half as enthusiastic in praising her as you are."  "But you must admit yourself that she is a charm- ing creature. I must ask her if she is a Catholic." And if she is not?" asked Juan. The priest, however, did not hear the remark, and Juan, after bidding him good night, fell asleep. If his slumbers were unbroken and undisturbed, it was doubtless owing to the fatigues of railroad night travel-not the most pleasant mode of passing the time, however comfortable your sleeping car may advertise itself to be. Mrs. Martin's well-aired, clean sheeted, comfortable beds soon closed the'eyer of f ather Jos6 as well as of Juan Morales. They, however, did not fulfill the same office for Miss Blos- sotm. The young lady's rest was very much-dis-   136    OHEBRiY BLOSSOM. turbed that night, and a shrewd observer like Mrs. Martin could not have failed to notice the effects on Cherry's countenance the next morning. It was therefore not surprising that the hostess should ask: "Why, my love, what ails you this morning r' "Oh, nothing at all," Cherry falteringly replied. "Now, dear, don't say that. I see you are unwell. Did you not sleep well?" "Oh, it was only a headache," Cherry was now forced to admit, as Mrs. Martin put her hand to her forehead. "Cherry, now you sit quiet in my room," Mrs. Martin replied, not quite satisfied with Cherry's pleading guilty only to a headache. "You will feel better after a while. I will bet you a pair of gloves that you have been dreaming again some nonsense, about angels and the :Lord knows what else."2 Cherry's face became fiery red in an instant, while her eyes became filled with tears, ' Oh, don't, Cherry dear; please forgive me," exclaimed Mfrs. Martin, throwing her arms around Cherry's neck; "I did not mean to hurt your feel. ings," and she began to cry herself.   CHEBEYO BLOSSOM.       137/ ' How good you are!" said Cherry, and her tears stopped in an instant. "Why, I have nothing to forgive you. I was only so taken back when you spoke about the dream, wondering how you knew anything about it." "Then you have been dreaming again. Please tell me all about it. I would not be a woman were I not anxious to know what it is." But Mrs. Martin's curiosity was doomed to dis- appointment, for ere Cherry could answer, Mr. Martin and his two guests entered the room and relieved her from any further explanation. At the breakfast-table, Mr. Martin almost monopolized the conversation by repeating to his wife the thrice-told tale of his adventures by sea and land; and after breakfast was over, a ride into the country was determined on, much to the gratification of Mr. Morales, who, with every hour, became more charmed with Miss Blossom. During the ride, the young lady's horse became restive, and Cherry, who was a good horsewoman, put him in a gallop. As if drawn by sympathy, Mr. Morales' horse fol- lowed the example, and the two:thus became sepa- rated from the rest of the company. "What if they should make a match of it?" said               .,   138    OHERRY BLOSSOM. Martin to his wife. "They would be a good-look- ing couple." "You just speak as if good looks were all that is required to effect a marriage," answered Mrs. Martin, rather indignantly. "I am too much in- terested in Cherry to wish her simply a good-looking husband. I mean no offence to your young friend," continued she, addressing Father Jose, " when I say that his good looks alone would never be considered by me as a sufficient recommendation to give him Cherry's hand in marriage." "I certainly agree with' you," replied Father Jos6. "Marriage is too solemn and holy a bond to be quickly entered into. Hasty marriages, in nine cases out of ten, are attended with discord and family quarrels. The law almost everywhere recognizes this fact, and has, by salutary barriers, endeavored to create wholesome delays, and thus to give time for receetion. In contracting a marriage, while personal beauty is an additional inducement, it  should never become more than that. The dispo- sition and character of the man or wqxan should be first looked into :by each other, ere tey deter- mine to bind themselves for life." "This may all be very well to say," Mrartin z:L :?Ji    CHERRY BLOSSOM.       139 observed, "but to do so is quite another thing, and  I hold yet to my opinion that our two young friends would be a good-looking couple t Don't you think so, Father Jose?" "Oh, there is no questi o tat. Nay, more, from what I know of    es, and from what I have seen of the young Iady; I do 'believe that a marriage between them would be productive of great happiness."  Father Jos6 did not alone think so.- His con- viction was shared by Juan himself. During the next fortnight he was constantly in. attendance on Miss Blossom, and the more he saw of her, the more he learned to appreciate her fine character. His heart throbbed with a hitherto unknown feeling of delight as he became her escort in rambles through the fields and forests. It was a silent pleasure, but none the less marked. If he had not language suf- ficient at his command to express his sentiments, his eyes spoke eloquently enough. As for Cherry, her conduct did no so ei:e y -show her feelings. Indee   het idnot repuls the young stranger, still it Id not be"said that she encouraged his advances. No one -was more painfully impressed wi   tan Juan himself. "She is a coquette,"   "O    O I E3Ry BLOSSOM. his rebellious thoughts would whisper to his heart one moment; but the instant after he would re. proach himself for having dared to entertain such an idea, and his existence then would seem to be entirely wrappe    e adoration of his heart's idol.' The object;   urney, his mother's me- mory, all seemed to vaish at the sighti f her he loved  Happily has it been said by a distinguished writer,* that " there is no other such crisis in human life as love;" that in love "the human creature shoots up into the angel; that then there is nothing on earth too defiled for its charity--nothing in hell too appalling for its heroism--nothing in heaven too glorious for its sympathy." But it must also be added that however strongly expressed we may see the corresponding sympathy in the object we love, we are yet left in doubt whether the love returned equals the love we give. In our selfishness we desire an undivided whole. No other being must share, with us a part of that love, else our pas- sions are aroused and jealousy and hate become developed.  Happily for Juan, Miss Blosom's atte n was Miss Martineau in Deerbrook",'  ,U , I   OHERRY   BLOSSOM.      141 lot engaged by another lover, and if Cherry at imes averted her eyes and shrank from encounter- ng his glance, there seemed to be no reason to sup- )ose that she loved another. Poor Cherry herself vas ill at ease. She could hardly define her ailing, Ind shrewd Mrs. Martin was not long in reading Ler thoughts; With a woman's keen perception, fary Martin noted the two young people, though annoticed by them, and though she delicately re- trained from making any allusion, she became intensely interested in the progress of the affair. + ' '                '  '   CHAPTER XX. TlE denoument came sooner than expected. Mr. Blossom wrote from Boston, where his business still detained him, that he would shortly return and then be ready to leave with Cherry for Europe with- out delay. The Martins determined to give her a farewell party, and the preparations they made were of the most ample style. The parlors of the house were filled with an array of the elite of their acquain- tance, and Juan then had an opportunity of com- paring Miss Blossom's attractions and beauty with those of other women. The scene was rather a novel one to Mr. Morales, since the retired life his mother had led had prevented him from mixing muchin society. Still he was not at allembarrassed, since an innate dignity of behavior, which charac- terized his conduct at all tinies, removed all aw  wardness he might naturally have, felt.- His eye wandered around the room, gazing at the brilliant assemblage, but it was the ^e of a not unskillful! "2 - id     .  -   .   ,     lj   CHERRY BLOSSOM        14 judge of humanity, one able to distinguish merit wherever it existed. Beautiful women the young stranger saw here in abundance; some resplendent and striking, and others simply graceful and attrac- tive. But it was not without pleasure that he con- fessed to himself, after having taken a fair survey of the field, that Miss Blossom, the idol of his heart, was the choicest pearl indeed ofthe whole assembly. No other lady in the room came up to her standard of beauty apd elegance. Dressed in a spotless white muslin robe, the emblem of innocence and  purityand with no other ornament save a half- opened r7se in her auburn hair, she was indeed a blossom of the fairest promise. Like a queen she was surrounded by a host of courtiers. The young men present gathered around her, watching eagerly for the slightest of her smiles. Much to their dis- appointment, she would not dance that evening, pleading her recent illness as a sufficient excuse, but at the request of Father Jose, who enjoyed the scene as much as any one present, she seated her- self at the piano to play for the dancers. Whether urged on by inspiration or by a desire to show her powers, her playing was more wonderful than ever. The effect was electric. There was no dancing then.                     .   "4     OHE1BB    BLOSOBSOM. From the moment she touched the keyboard till her fingers relinquished it, all in the room were hushed into silence, but the loud and prolonged applause of the audience when she had finished sufficiently attested the appreciation of all present. As in the theatre, the cry was "Encore encore!' and Cherry, blushing and tremulous, had to resume her peat at the instrument, in order to appease the desire of her friends.  "We must crown you! We must crown you!" exclaimed Isabella Iart, an impulsive brunette  from Virgini, and suiting the action to the wod,  she took the wreath from her own head, and placed  it on Cherry's with mock solemnity, saying:  "Of beauty and of song, the Queen,  I crown you, Cherry, dear; Of courtiers here this gallant train  Alleginaee to you swear. ' Most dutiful we kneel to you, And humbly iss your hand;  And hope we always will be true, And honor your command.,  "Well done, Bell!" said Mr. Martin, while the rest f the company clapped their hands. The fair object, however, of this ovation beat a hastyretreat. ovation beat a  hasty rtetrat.   CHE  RY BLOSSOM.      145 Blushing and agitated, Miss Blossom escaped from the room. In her flight the rose fell out of her hair. Mr. Morales picked the flower up unperceived, and fastened it in his button-hole. It was nearly an hour ere Miss Blossom made her reappearance, entering the room under the escort of Mrs. Martin and Miss Hart. The wreath she had been crowned with still encircled her brow, and certainly added greatly to her charms. As before, she became again the centre of attraction, and Juan Morales almost despaired of having even a moment's conversation with the idol of his heart. At last, when the dancing was resumed, a young man who had engaged Miss Hart as his partner, led that lady away, aind there was for a moment a vacant seat at Miss Blossom's right. Quick as thought, Juan was by her side, and in a few agitated words compli- mented her on her well deserved triumph. Cherry thanked him more by her looks than words, but perceiving the lost rosebud in his breast she smilingly charged him with the theft. "Cannot Miss Blossom spare me one flower, when her admirers strew thousands in her pathway?" asked Juan. "You came from a land of flowers, Mr. Morales.   "6     HERRY BLOSSOM.             F  The earth there is more bountiful than with us.  Why should you wish for flowers which can be only obtained after a hard struggle with wintry winds and a forbidding soil "  "Because they are more precious on that account;,"  answered Juan. "But were I to plead guilty, could I be pardoned? A queen should be merciful." "Ah, I forgot. Isabella crowned me."  "And made us all your subjects. Will your majesty pardon me!"  "Well, then, Senior Morales, considering that this is your first offence, we pardon you."  And will your majesty grant me a boon, as a  sign of your royal forgiveness!"  ("Is not a royal pardon sufficient? When will  you cease to be a beggar"?" "I will answer you in the language of the gallant  Sir Walter Raleigh, When your majesty ceases to be a benefactor."' "You are good at historical quotations, and as a reward of your learning your request is granted. What is it you wish?"  That I may have the honor of your hand for the next dance." "You are fairly caught, Cherry 1" said Mrs. Mar- *    s        , , .    CHERRY BLOSSOM.        147 tin, and Cherry thought so herself, for she willingly allowed Juan Morales to lead her to the dance. With her hand, he had also taken her heart. The evening was the turning point in the lives of these two young persons. They each felt conscious of the presence of love in their bosom, and before the clock in the village church chimed out the mid- night hour, the declaration of their passion, the avowal as well as the response was uttered and listened to in the presence of an all-seeing Pro- vidence. "You are mine forever," said Juan, as they stood upon the balcony gazing out in the star-  lighted night, and he impressed a fervent kiss on Cherry's lips. "Thine forever," was her response, and intui- tively she drev nearer to his side. Another fervent embrace sealed the compact of the lovers, and in the ethereal pleasure of the moment, the past and the future, all friends and all ties were forgotten. But when the first transports of joy were over, memory crowded baFk into its wonted station. Cherry's thoughts then were of her Uncle John, her kind guardian, her almost father. Surely he, above all others, deserved to share her confidence, and as she   "8    OfHERRY BLOSSOM. shrank from her lover's side, the heart which a moment ago had overflowed with joy, now felt a pang of bitterness and of remorse. Juan who per- ceived that some unknown sorrow was agitating his beloved, kindly and affectionately led her to a seat sand urged her to explain. With difficult utterance, and tears in her eyes, Miss Blossom spoke to him of her uncle, and of the duty and obedience she owed to him, her protector, her guardian, her friend. "My dear Cherry," replied Juan, endeavoring to soothe her feelings " all will be right. I will go myself to your Uncle, as soon as he returns. He surely can have no objection to our marriage. I will tell him all. My fortune is ample, and my family is respeetable. He will not ask for more. Surely he will bot, nay, he cannot wish to throw any impediment in the way to our happiness." "' I hop e he will ot object, dear Juan." "But if he should!" he now anxiously inquired. 'Then, dear Juan, we will have to wait and trest to Provid&nce to change his mind." "Impossible. He is not your father. - You are mine, Cherry, and only mine."-r "My dear Juan," replied Cherry, gently disen-   OHERRY BLOSSOM.        149 gaging her hand, "my loveshall always be yours; but I owe it to Uncle John, who has been almost a father to me for so many years, to say no more at present." With these words she rose from her seat and rejoined Mrs. Martin.   CHAPTER XXI ' i MUST go and see Mr. Blossom as soon as he returns," said Juan Morales to Father Jos6, after heo had made him acquainted with what had  happened. "Lord bless you, my boy," returned the priest, "and give you success. I believe truly that you are worthy of each other. You ought to speak, however, with Mr. Martin about the matter. He will be better able to manage the affair, than were you-to go alone to the young lady's guardian." "You are right, Father Jos&. I will speak to him to-morrow, and ask his advice and assistance." Accordingly the next morning, having risen at an early hour, Juan accompanied Mr. Martin in his morning walk, and briefly told him all, asking at the same time that Mr. Martin would lend him his jssistance. "That you shall have willingly, my young friend," was the frank reply. "Anything I can do in the 150    OHERRY BLOSSOM.       151 matter to help things along, shall be done. But at the same time I must caution you not to be too sanguine, at the first start, ,of success. Cherry's uncle, I would tell you, is not the best paty in the world to have to deal with in an affair of this kind. He used to be kindly enough in his younger days, but that was before he went abroad. He came back entirely changed, and from what I know of him, it would not be surprising were he to refuse, at first, to give his consent. He sets great store on Cherry. She is, you may say, almost his only plea- sure, and probably he would not be very willing to let her go right off. The poor girl also loves her uncle dearly, and you must let her have her will. I believe myself the best thing we could do now is to send Cherry back to the city. Her uncle will be there in a day or two, and then I will go with you to him." Juan Morales was not altogether satisfie& with his host's arrangement, yet he could offer no better plan. Cherry herself, when she heard all from Mrs. Martin, willingly consented to a short banish- ment, as her lover called her return to the city, and with a face beaming with smiles and wet with tears, that afternoon bid farewell to Martin's Lodge.   152    CHERRY BLOSSOM. "Remember you are niine, Cherry," was Juan's last words as he placed her in the carriage, along- side of Mrs. Martin. ' Thin, Juan, forever," she murmured in reply, and the carriage bore her to her city home. The journey, though a short one, wis too long for Cherry. Her mind was the prey of contending thoughts. What would Uncle John say to her marrying a stranger Would he consent? With hope and doubt alternating in her mind, something of the fear with which she had regarded her undle in former days was fast coming back to her. Still she successfully endeavored to conceal her agitation till she reached home, and bid farewell .to Mrs. Martin. In the solitude of her chamber, however, the hitherto pent-up feelings burst their chains, and she buried her head in her hands, sobbing violently. For some time the tears rolled down unceasingly, but at last the burst of grief, if grief it could be called, became less violent, and a smile-a sad yet contented smile--chased away the last pearly drop of the flood of tears. She felt relieved and strength- ened, and was able to receive her Uncle John, iho arrived that evening, in her usual cordial manner. Cherry waited till supper was over, and no one   OHERBY   BLOS3 SOM.     153 save her guardian was with her, when she told him her story. Mr. Blossom's brow, however, she per- ceived soon, to her consternation, darkened more and more; but when she mentioned the name of Morales, John Blossom sank down in his chair like one struck by paralysis. He soon, however, reco- vered himself, and in a few words intimated to his niece, that he would at an early day give her his decision. He then quitted the room, leaving - Cherry as much the prey of hope and doubt as ever, and moreover astonished at his singular conduct. "If Juan were only here now!" said Cherry to herself. "I don't think Uncle John can have any objection to him. I hope he will come with Mr. Martin to-morrow and see Uncle John." Her hope was certainly verified. Mr. Martin, with his young guest, drove to the city next day and called on Mr. Blossom at his offie. They found him busily engaged, and he did not at first perceive their entrance, but Mr., Martins hearty "' good morning, John," made him look at the two visitors. He looked somewhat confused as his glance fell on the young man, but it soon passed  over, and with a cold ind stately bow he returned his visitors' salutations. 1*   154    CHERRY BLOSSOM. Honest John Martin was somewhat at a loss how to introduce the subject, but at last he managed to tell Mr. Blossom what that gentleman had already learned from his niece the previous evening. The reply was short but decided. Mr. Blobsom thought his ward to be entirely too young to think yet of matrimony, and he was besides adverse to her marrying a foreigner. He had no doubt, and Mr. Blossom's words were accompanied by something like a sneer, that Senor Morales was respectably connected, but he felt compelled to decline his proposals, and he must bid him a good morning. Mr. Martin, as well as his young friend, to say the least, were decidedly astonished at this unlooked for determination; but as both felt convinced that it would be useless for them to say anything more, they left the office. "Decidedly cool this," said John Martin to Juan, when they found themselves once more in the street. "John Blossom is one of the very queerest men I have ever met with. He wants Cherry to live with him and die an old maid-the crusty old bachelor 1" ' What is to be done now?" asked Juan. "Well, I suppose you will have to see Cherry 'I   CHERRY BLOSSOM.      * JLo herself, now; it depends on her. If she is willing, my advice to you is, marry her right off, and recon- cile her with her uncle afterward." "Suppose we were to go and see her now? a Will you go with me?" "I might as well, though it is a pretty piece of business for an old man like me to help a young chap like you to steal a young lady." They accordingly called on Cherry, at her uncle's house, but no one was at home, save Mrs. Finch, the housekeeper. "Where is your young lady!" asked John Mar- tin, after having inquired after Mrs. Finch's health. "She went to Mrs. Creamer to-day." "Who is Mrs. Creamer?" "Don't you know the old lady who took care of Cherry when her father and mother were killed? She was on the same train with them." "Ah, yes; I recollect now." "She thinks all the world of Cherry, and I shouldn't at all wonder if the old lady made her her heiress in her will. She has been sick lately, and sent for Cherry as soon as she came back." "Where does Mrs. Creamer live?" asked Mr. Martin.   156 *   OHERRY BLOSSOM. "I' couldn't tell you, for I never heard Miss Cherry say where she did, and I 4ever asked her." "That is rather bad, Mrs. Finch, since I, or rather this young gentleman, would very much like to have seen her." L"Why, what's out?"Mrs. Finch asked, and she brought her old spectacles into requisition to make a better-inspection of Mr. Martin's companion. "Didn't Cherry tell you?" said Martin, and he took the old woman aside on seeing her shake her head. You are a good hand at guessing, Aunt Finch. This young fellow is in love with your young mis- tress, ant-she with him, but John Blossom is not willing to say yes." "Ah, this is the gentleman who came with ' you " "Yes, that is one of them." "Cherry said he was a very fine young man." '"He is indeed, and worth a mint of money, be. side i I can't say what objections John Blossom can possibly have." "Has he spoken to him yet?" "Yes, this very morning. John refused him                       .   CHERRY BLOSSOM.       157 almost poin t blank; hardly gave him a civil an- swer."  "Indeed, you don't say so V" Yes, I do." "Well, master John is a queer man. But Mr. Martin," the old lady continued, with a little more animation, "the young man puts me in mind of John Blossom himself, that is, when' he was a young man." "I don't know  how John Blossom looked then, for he wasn't at home when I came to live with his father."  "Ah, I remember Mr. John had'just then gone to South America, and only Mr. (Charles was at home."l "I wish poor Charhe was alive now." "Charlie Blossom thought a good deal of you, Mr. Martin, and he was such a fine man I I hope he is in heaven." "God grant it, Aunt Finch. That is what makes me so anxious about Cherry. I want to get her a good husband, and- am no judge of human nature, if this young chap doesn't turn out to be a good one. But ndw I must go, for my folks will be waiting for me at home; so, good bye, Aunt Finch. Tell   158    CHERRY BLOSSOM. Cherry she must call on Mrs. Martin as soon as she comes. Now, my good fellow," continued he, addressing his young friend," let us go home, for we can do no more in this matter to-day" It was two days after this interview that Mr. Blossom brought his niece home from Mrs. Crea- mer, but only to enable her to make a few hasty preparations for the long spoken-of journey to Europe. All that Cherry could do was to pen a few lines to her lover, assuring him of her un- changed affection, and hoping that, sooner or later, fortune, would unite them once more. Twenty-four hours after the few lines had been penned, Cherry was, with her uncle, aboard the steamship at sea, and Juan, thanks to Mrs. Finch's courtesy, was just reading her letter. "I shall go to Europe in the next steamer," he said, as he handed the letter to Mr. Martin. "Well, if John Blossom is not a cute chap, I don't know who is," exclaimed Martin. "Why, what's the matter?" asked his wife. "It is just this, that John Blossom has just gone to Europe with Cherry, without none of us know- ing it." "I should just have thought that of him."   OHERRY BLOSSOM.        159 "When does the next steamer sail?" asked Juan. "Not before Saturday week," replied Mr. Martin. "' Will you engage passage for Father Jos6 and myself?" "Certainly, my good friend, with pleasure, and I only hope you will-overtake them; but mind you, my maxim is, ' Marry the girl first, and ask for con- sent afterward." ' Ob   CHAPTER XXlf. ItAIL to thee, oh, Lutetia, thou city of cities  Thou Mecca and Medina'of sight-hunting travellers I Thou unfailing expositor of human virtue and of human folly I The roads leading to thy gates are crowded daily with eager visitors, who have come to replace those of their brethren already satiated with thy pleasures, or saddened with thy vices. For centuries, indeed, hast thou maintained thy. supremacy. Our forefathers went to Paris, if they meant to travel in their time, and so do we in our time. They went on horseback and in the lumbering diligence, while we travel by rail. We have only changed the mode of conveyance, but still we go to the banks of the Seine, to look at the hoary towers of islet-bound Notre Dame, to cast a glimpse at the Tuileries, to while away a few hours in the art-crowded galleries of the Louvre, to shop in the thousand boutiques of the Palais Royal, to w    CHERRY BLOSSO M.       161 drive in the Bois de Boulogne, and to sip our coffee on the Boulevard des Italiens. There is a never-failing crowd of coffee-sippers. The garpon has not many leisure moments. Sum- mer and winter, spring and autumn, the crowd is there, waiting for their daily tasse de caf, and en- joying the flavor of the aromatic Havana, while occasionally bestowing a glance at the passers-by, or talking badinage to the little, not over-tidy, sprite, engaged in the bouquet trade. There are visitors from every clime commingled with the old habitues. Phlegmatic Germans, non-communica- tive Britons, vivacious Italians, sharp-sighted Yan- kees, unpronounceable Russians, and dignified Spaniards. There is no mistaking the Don, and even had you not heard the little gentleman in black, sitting near the entrance, give his order in pure Castilian to the many-tongued garpon, you could have known from  his sunburnt, dignity- crowned brow, that he comes from the south side of the Pyrenees. Yet he has not an unpleasant face to look upon, even if the serious predominates. The eyes are full of candor and truth, and the ex- pression of the mouth, the small and firm-set lips seem to be tokens of uprightness. There seems to        "'^as .   163    OCHERRY BLOSSOM. be also an absence of cunning, and the total make- up of the countenance encourages confidence, long before a word may be spoken. The man must be nearly forty years of age, and among the black hair is already a fair sprinkling of silver. While leisurely sipping his coffee, he has an eye to the departing and coming guests, as well as to the passing crowd-not so much from curiosity, as from a want of something else to do at the time. Sud- denly he seems to be roused from his half listless reverie, as he sees two new guests enter the cafe. One of these, an old man, especially engages his attention. While they are taking their seats and speak to the garpom, he still eyes them with in- /^/ creased interest. "Santa Maria!" he suddenly ejaculates, "it must be him 1" and in a moment he is at their table, grasps the old man's hand, and says: aFather Jos6, don't you know me? Don't you  know Pedro Garcia "  "Garcia, you here V' asked the priest, as he re- cognized him. "I thought you were in Cadiz." "I came here a few days ago on a visit.' "I am glad to see you, and so undoubtedly is Senor Morales," continued the priest, pointing to   HER E Y BLOSSOM.      163 Juan. "When you left Mexico, this young gentle- man was not old enough to know you, but he remembers your noble conduct with gratitude." "Ah, senor," said Garcia, accepting Juan's prof- fered hand with eagerness. "I have done no more than my duty." "The-service you have done my mother I shall never be able to repay," said Juan, with emoi6. "Your mother has then spoken to you of me 2 asked Garcia. "She never did, but after her death "--- "Santa Maria I Is she dead?" "She died four months ago." "May God rest her well. Poor lady, she deserved a better fate." "She is in heaven," said the priest, "and has gone to her reward. All of us have to die, and Senora Elvira died the death of the righteous. Gentle as her life was, was her death. Like a child falling asleep on, a summer's day, was her blessed end." "And did she ever learn any further from her husband?" "Alas, no! The unhappy man has never been heard from. Juan and myself are on a voyage of -iWdi   164    CHEaRY B LOSSOM. discovery, to find out, if possible, whether he is still alive, but I rather fear that we will not be very successful." "It is a very sad affair," said Garcia. "It was God's will," rejoined the priest; "but, my dear friend, now tell us something of your own doings for the last few years. I hope you have prospered in life, and met with the ample success you deserve." "Thank-you for your kind wishes, Father Jose, I cannot complain of not having a full share of hap-. piness since I have returned to the old world. You already know that I travelled many years after leaving Vera Cruz, endeavoring to find Mr. Osborne. If my efforts were not crowned with success, . yet have the consolation to know that in my search I met with the instigator of all this misery, and that from her own lips I obtained a complete refutation, and thus reestablished the fair fame of a much- wronged lady. But that dreadful night when Adeline Ferrier died, quite unmanned me. And yet it was a great relief to my mind. For ten long years I had wandered restlessly from place to place, driven on from a conviction of duty, to find either Xr. Osborne or this woman. I was almost .. g f ..   OH E R Y BL O SSO M.     165 despairing of success, when I thus unexpectedly was placed face to face with the wretched woman. How my blood shuddered in my veins when I saw her poor mangled body lying on the miserable pallet. It was then that I believed in Divine Providence. It seemed as if the author of so much infamy had been doomed to live till her own tongue should bear witness to her wickedness."' "i My son," said the priest, " 'de mortuis nil nisi bonurn.'- Don't speak ill of the dead." "Yes, Father Jos6, you are right. I will not reprove her, however much she may have wronged me. I cannot desctibe to you, though, the feeling of relief I experienced, as the notary wrote down the last words of her confession, and affixed his seal. I felt like one born to new ifp just as if a heavy load had been taken off iim my shoulders; it seemed as if I could breathedfreer and easier. I was able once more to hold up my head, and to look honest men in the face. A holy, pure and earnest joy came over me, and when I had once more reached my chamber and was alone, I fell down on my  knees and  gratefully acknowledged the Almighty's goodness. I just tarried long enough to see the Frenchwoman's remains decently interred. -* , , - '   166    OHERRY BLOSSOM. An hour afterward I was on the highway, bound to my father's house, for I could now go home with the full consciousness of having done my duty. My parents I found both alive, and since then I have never left them, till I made this visit to Paris. Shortly after my return home, I married, and I am now blessed with the best of wives, and a house full of children." "You are indeed a happy man, friend Garcia," said Juan Morales. "But did my mother ever write to you after you had returned to Spain? "Only once, senfor. She acknowledged the receipt of the Frenchwoman's confession, an attested copy of which I had sent to her, and after thanking me for my efforts, she entreated me to rest now in my search, and to leave to Providence her being righted in her husband's eyes. In her letter also she sent me 10,000 piastres as a small token, she delicately expressed herself, of the high estimation she entertained for me. With this sum I com- menced the world anew, and I am glad to declare that God has prospered me in all my undertakings." "I am glad to hear you say so," said the priest. "You richly deserve it," was Juan's reply. "Whether I deserve it or not," continued Garcia, -      *-m               i.   OHERRY BLOSSOM.        16l "I am thankful for it. But how long do you in- tend to stay in Paris? I suppose you will not con- fine your visit to ta belle France alone. Father Jos6, you ought to take Mr. Morales across the Pyrenees. Spain is the country above all others for tourists. Travelling there, to be sure, is neither as quick nor as comfortable, sometimes, as in other parts of Europe, but, taken altogether, it is almost as pleasant." I am almost afraid, friend Garcia," said Father Jose, " that our young friend Juan will cross the Rhine before he sees the Pyrenees." "I am sorry for it. He will see more of life in Spain in one day, than in Germany in a year. What does he want to do among the Teutons, since he does not understand their language?" "Oh, my friend, you don't know that there is a lady in the case." "Why, Mr. Morales," asked Garcia, "you are not married already?" ' Oh, no," replied Juan. "You must not mind what Father Jos6 says. He is slandering me." "Ah, you young scamp!" laughingly observed the priest. "A fine report I will have to make to Miss Blossom."   168    OHtERRY BLOSSOM. "Miss Blossom, did you say?" hastily inquired Garcia. "Yes, Miss Blossom I did say. But why do you ask a" "I saw the name on the hotel register, when 1 arrived in Paris, at the Hotel d'Angleterre." "How long ago was this ." asked Juan Morales. "About four weeks." "And Miss Blossom is there yet?" "No, the lady left in company with one of her relatives, the day before I came." "Are you sure of this?" "Yes, certainly, for I made inquiries. The rela- tive's name, John Blossom it was given, startled me."  "How so?" asked the priest and Juan. "Well, I believe I had better tell you at once, that the handwriting seemed familiar to me. It looked like your father's landwriting." "(My father's! Are you certain " "It is a long time since I have seen it, but having seen it so often, I can never forget it. Unfortunately, I have none of his letters with me to compare it, but I assure you that the resem- blance is very great."    UHER   Y BLOSSOM.      169 "And did you learn the route Mr. Blossom and his niece took?" asked the priest. "' No more than that they were to go to Germany But you can find that out by goingto the passport office, as it requires a vise of the police." "Well, Juan, we will go with Garcia to the Hotel d'Angleterre first, and see the register," said the priest.' "It would be a strange conclusion, cer- tainly, of our travels, were we to discover your father in John 'Blossom." "God grant it!" said Juan, as they set out for the Hotel d'Angleterre.   'HAPTER   XXTIT. IT was several years before the battle between Hermann and Quintilius Yarns, in the famous Westphalian/forest, that the Romans had founded the town of Armenberg, or rather, to speak more correctly, had formed a settlement on the site now occupied by the present town. The Romans, what- ever may have been their faults, were a cleanly people, and even at this late day, the ruins of their once gigantic aqueducts and magnificent public baths are witnesses alike of their former greatness and of their utter downfall. At Armenberg, as well as at other places where their cohorts were once encanped, and where their proconsuls reigned, traces of this water-love may yet be seen. It was undoubtedly owing to the hot springs they had dis covered in the vicinity that, the Romans selected  the site for a military post, so that the invalids visiting the springs might not be without protection against sudden inroads of the barbarians. But to- 1TO   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        171 day the Latin legions are no longer at Armenberg. For centuries their bones have been bleaching on the battle-fields of Europe andlAsia, and their pro- consuls reign no more. The old frontier post has become a populous town, settled at last by the descendants of the very barbarians whose invasions were once dreaded. Armenberg does not belie its  claims to antiquity. The streets are crooked and narrow; the houses have an old-fashioned look, and the churches must have been built at the same time when the great masonic fraternity busied itself in the construction of the Strasbourg and Cologne cathedrals. Still, Armenberg is decidedly  pleasant town to live in. The old ramparts, from whose heights the sturdy burghers in the feudal ages bid defiance to freebooting barons and land- graves of the Holy Roman Empire, have long ago been converted into pleasure walks shaded by stately old elms and linden trees. The hot springs are more famous than ever, a fact attested by thou- sands of visitors, who are to be found at Armen- berg every summer. Beside, the town is the poli- tical capital of the Duchy of Seelenhausen, a prin- cipality about equal in extent to the territorial cir- cumference of the sovereign commonwealth of   172    CHERRY BLOSSOM. Rhode Island. The duke's palace is a stately old castle, built on an eminence commanding the town, and several old rusty guns show .et to the visitor that the dukes in the last century trusted as muchl  if not more, to the ultima ratio as to the doubtful loyalty of the Armenbergers to keep them in the dutiful path of obedience to a government reigning over them, according to the words stamped on the silver florin, by the grace of God. The greatest glory, however, of Armenberg-is itu university. We need not enlarge on its age or on its fame. Long before the Emnperor Barbarossa made his pilgrimage to the Holy Land, was Armen- berg noted as a seat of learning. The old cloisters, where the Franciscans taught the rudiments of Latin and Greek from old parchment rolls, are yet the lecture-rooms of learned professors. The Refor- mation, it is true, turned the monks out of doors, but it advanced the cause of education by establish- ing the university on a firmer basis.. Year by year the fame of the Armenberg University increased, and from far and near came students to attend its lectures. But like all earthly things, days of sorrow were commingled with its periods of gladness. The embryo physicians, clergymen, and lawyers, were *"   OHERRY BLOSSOM.        173 among the unruliest of unruly students, and the provost's office was not a sinecure at Armenberg. Duels and street fights could be numbered by hun- dreds, and in the days of political excitement, when the friends of constitutional government were making a stand against long-endured irresponsible absolutism, the young madcaps, like one man, shouted "Liberty and the Constitution," and had the hardihood to fire on the soldiers of the Duke of Seelenhausen. It was undoubtedly owing to the students' bravery that the old duke had been com- pelled to grant his subjects a magna cchartc, him- self being the first to swear allegiance to it. But the sly reactionary fox was also the first to break this oath, and as soon as he found himself strong enough, abolished the new form of government, and reigned ever afterward till his dying day with as absolute a will as ever, filled the prisons with his late counsellors, and dismissed such of the Armen- berg professors as were deemed inclined to the liberal cause, from the university. The new faculty certainly gave great satisfaction to the old duke, though their advent diminished, by fully one-half, the number of students. There was, the duke con- sidered, great cause for congratulation that such   174    CHE RY BLOSSOM. was the case. Three hundred men are only half as formidable as six hundred of the same kind, and there was consequently only half the danger as for- merly. Besides, the university was the recipient of a new set of stringent regulations, and the pro- tessors had been enjoined to enforce quiet end subordination at all hazards. They had perfect liberty to expel refractory students, and were, as their patron well knew, the men to do so. It was not long before' they had an opportunity to apply the pruning-knife, though politics, il this instance, had nothing to do with their motives. Among the theological students attending the Armenberg University at the time, was Max Edel- stein, the son of the Lutheran pastor of the Land- thal Church. Mai-had already in his youth given evidence of being possessed of great talents, and at. the gymnasium as well as at the university had always been noted for unremitting attention to his studies. Gifted with a reflective mind, he was not often found at the convivial gathering of his fellow- students, and when political excitement ran wild, Max Edelstein was one of the few who declined to take an active part, as his sensitive, retiring nature involuntarily shrunk fronm publicity. But' while    CHERRY BLOSSOM.        175 the young student, by his conduct at the time of the civil dissensions escaped unharmed, the new faculty which had taken possession of the univer. sity lecture-rooms proscribed him for lack of ortho. dox opinions. Young Edelstein had read and reread the writings of Aristotle, Plato, Epicurus, and of other philosophers with avidity. This course of reading engendered doubt, the natural precursor of faith, since those alone who doubt can believe intelligently. A new light, it seemed, burst upon the young theologian. Instead of placing, as here- tofore, an implicit reliance upon the dogmas taught him in earlier days, the faculties of his mind began to act as free agents in search of demonstrable truth. A comparison of all earthly creeds sug- gested itself to him in the first place, and it was not without an unpleasant surprise that he found their theory totally negatived by their practice. Thus, for instance, he saw and admired that all these creeds inculcated and enjoined on their believers the solemn duty to love God and their fellow-man, while with sorrow he heard the preachers of one denomination denounce the others as impostors, unworthy of belief, and claiming a hereafter reward, solely for the adherents of their own reli.   176    CHERRY BLOSSOM. gious tenets. It seemed like blasphemy to the young student to see these anathemas hurled from sectarian pilpits against any and all who might choose to find a road to heaven in a different direction. B13t, above all, it was the wholesale condemnation 'of the votaries of science which offended Edelstein's sen- sitive nature. The men who would praise Galileo and Copernicus for their discoveries, and lament their persecutions, denounced almost in the same breath the geologists as freethinkers and atheists, because they assigned a far greater period for the existence of the earth than is warranted by scrip tural tradition. For weeks and months, Max Edel- stein's mind was disturbed by his doubts, and it was not unnatural that the young man did consult with several of his collegians, who, like him, were inquirers after truth. He found that they were all victims of the same doubts; that they, like him,  were anxious to be better informed. It was but natural that in their search after truth they should seek the advice and counsel of Professor Ehrenbach, the most aged and the, most renowned of the Armenberg faculty. Dr. Ehronbach was known as a man of great learning, but at the same time he was the most orthodox of believers, the   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        1" enemy of new theories and innovations. The old man was astounded and not a little enraged that a few inexperienced young students should dare to doubt dogmas accepted as divine truth by learned and illustrious teachers. It seemed ridiculous, nay scandalous in his eyes, that his pupils should dare to cavil at the creed of their forefathersi Dr. Ehrenbadh, as we have said, was enraged at Edel- stein and his companions. He met their questions ' with threats and objurgations, and brought the matter to the notice of the Academic Court. That august tribunal summoned Max and his fellow- students, not to defend themselves, but simply 'to receive sentence of condemnation. When the fool- hardy Edelstein ventured on an exposition of his -belief, the rector of the university would not suf- fer him to proceed, intimating that unless a solemn recantation was made by him and' his compa- nions, they would be expelled immediately. '"Are you the successors of the Spanish inqui- sition?" indignantly asked Edelstein, who had hitherto preserved a calm but determined atti- tude. "Will you condemn us to an auto dafe?P asked another of the-students; while the others, seeing the 8*   178    CHERRY BLOSSOM. consternation of their judges, were ready to put similar questions. The professors were all taken aback-by these un- looked for symptoms of insubordination, and it was only till the rector bade the accused students to retire, that they recovered their composure. But the fate of Max and his companions was sealed, for the next day it was announced that nineteen theo- logical alumni 'had been expelled. The affair created immense excitement not only in the Armen- berg academic halls, but throughout Germany. While many of the people sided with the students, the professors had the satisfaction of seeing their decision approved not only by the old Duke of Seelenhausen, but even by other princess. Orders of merit pqred in upon the members of the faculty, and the Elector of Traumberg, as well as the Prince of Habnicht sent autograph letters to the rector of the university and Dr. Ehrenbach, expressing their gratification at seeing the cause of true religion thus energetically vindicated. The expelled stu- dents, too, were also not without sympathizers, but no prince's name was among the list, and like all recipients of popular favor, they and their cause were soon forgotten.    .   CHAPTER   XXIV. NOWHERE did the expulsion of the students create greater excitement than in Edelstein's birth-place, and no man felt more deeply grieved than his father. Adam Edelstein was known as an ardent admirer of Professor Ehreibach, and like him was foremost in the ranks of orthodox believers. The strange conduct of his son was a fearful blow to all his cherished hopes and expectations. Without delay he posted from Sandthal to Armenberg, there to learn any further particulars, and if possible to - lead his erring child back into the right path. Tile meeting between father and son was a stormy one. Not that the young student was wanting in filial deference, but his parent mistook his determination not to abandon his principles, for disobedience, and parted from him in uncontrollable anger, forbidding him ever again to cross his threshold. "Dear father," implored Max, with tears in his eyes, "do not cast me from you." 179   180     I E R R Y B LOSSO M. "Off with you!w" as the stern father's reply, as he' shook off his son's lhand froml his shoulder. "' Yo are no longer a child of mine. You are the snake which I nurtured in my bosom. You have brought disgrace not on yourself alone, but on your family." "Oh, dear father, do not say so!" "It is not me; it is the World which says it, People in the street point with the finger of scorn at your father, and tell each other that he brought up his son to be an infidel, an atheist!" "It is false!" answered Max with spirit. "Prove it then, by making a public recantation." "Never," said Max. "I have nothing to recant." "Then you are no longer my son. But remem- ber, you will bear witness one day to my honest endeavors to make you a good and useful man, and that I have done my duty toward you." "You have, father," answered Max, as the old man left him to return to his rural home, with the firm determination never to see his son again. Bitterly, deeply did Adam Edelstein feel his own humiliation in his son's disgrace, and the kossips of Sandthal had an ample theme in their pastor's demeanor and his altered looks whereon to descant.   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        181 In the spinrooms and in kitchens, at the dance- house and at church, nothing was spoken of for weeks but Max's undutiful conduct and his father's grief. Two gentle beings alone among the whole village population did not join in this con- demnation of the young student. One was his mother, the other was Malgaret, the daughter of Amntrichter Schultz, a young girl scarce eighteen years old, to whom Max was betrothed. The poor mother had to content herself with a silent protest, and grieved in secret, for a twelve- month' till she fell ill and took to her bed. The physician who was called in could give no relief, since the ailment' was of the mind and not of the body. Adam Edelstein, though he was a tender husbandi was at the same time of too unbending a' character to allow the son who, in his opinion, had disgraced him, to become again an inmate of his house, and thus give relief to his wife. Well did he know how much his wife loved that son, but he deemed it his duty to show the world his disap- proval of that son's conduct, and in the conflict be- tween'duty and affection, the latter was thrust into the background. Perhaps also did he think that his wife would soon recover; but if he entertained   182    CHERRY BLOSSOM. such a belief, he must have become undeceived in a short time, for God called her from him, after a month's illness.. It was at twilight time in the autumn days, when death's messenger opened the door for his master. Weary of life and yet loath to die, the poor, mind-distracted invalid, lay on her bed of suffering. "Oh, if only poor Max was here!" she groaned inwardly, and a feeling of pain convulsed her features., "Dear. Mother Edelstein, what is it?" asked Margaret Schultz, who had watched for many days at her bedside.  j  "My child, I feel that I am dying." Do not say so, dear mother." "Would to God I did not have to say it, for I want to see Max once more." "Oh God, oh God!" sobbed Margaret, and she covered her face with her hands. "Margaret dear," tearfully said the invalid, "Iisten to me."9 What is it, mother?" "Tell Max, after I am dead, how I have loved him. You will not desert him like the ethers?" "Never, never, Mother Edlestein."   O E RR Y BLOSsO. M      183 ' God bless you both, and give you strength. Be good, Margaret, and do not desert him. He is a broken reed and needs your support. Let the prayers of a dying mother prevail with you, and God will reward you hereafter. Promise me that, my daughter." "I will, dear mother, do as you say," answered the poor girl. "May God bless you for it, Margaret, I can now die in peace," were her last words, as she sank ex- hausted, motionless, spiritless, aye, lifeless. Marga- ret uttered a shriek, alike of astonishment and of grief, which summoned the other inmates of the house. In vain were all remedies and restoratives. The poor mother's soul had fled, and two days after- ward her lifeless body was borne to the village churchyard. Heartfelt as was the sorrow of mostly all who in double file walked behind the hearse, none felt greater anguish than he foi whose sake the deceased had grieved. Max had by chance heard, at Armenberg, of his mother's illness, and had hastened down to see her once more. He arrived too late, and notwithstanding his importunities and prayers, had been unable to even look at her re- mains. His father, stern and unbending, as ever,   184    C BE RRY BLOSSOM. had closed the door of his house against the son, on even this occasion. Oh, how bitterly did Max Edelstein feel his lot on earth, as he walked at the very end of the funeral procession to the grave- yard. With anguish not to be concealed, he saw the coffin lowered down, and the grave closed. One by one the mourners bent their steps home- ward, and at last he was alone by his mother's grave, a man in tears, weeping like a child. "Oh, God, thy ways are hard!" he exclaimed in the bitterness of his heart. "The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord," said a voice close by him. "Margaret, you here!" exclaimed Max, as he turned round and saw the young woman. ".Yes, dear Max, it is xle,' she answered, seating herself by his side. "And are you not afraid to be seen with the out- cast?" he said bitterly. "Max, dear Max, have I deserved this reproach?" "Forgive me, Margaret, if I have wounded yoni feelings; for, believe me, I scarcely knew I had a friend in the world, now that my poor m-other is gone."   HEERRY BLOSSOM.        185 "( Max, hear me, I will be your friend. I swore it to your mother, and I will keep my oath. I will go with you." "Oh, Margaret, how can you?  Poverty and misery is all I have to offer, and the few scholars I have, scarce keep hunger away from my door." "Dear Max, do not object. I am strong, and I can help you. I will work at anything, but do not let us part any more." "It would be a sin in me to accept your offer, Margaret. Besides, your father would never con- sent." (' Max, let me go with you," ]M[argaret entreated, *putting lher arms around his neck. "Impossible!" he replied, as he gently disengaged himself, and walked out into the darkness, at war with himself and the world.   ft CHAPTER XXV. FROM that day, Max Edelstein was seen no more at Sandthal, and the village gossips, after the novelty had wore off, made him no longer the theme of their discussions. Even at Armenberg, to which place he had returned, he seemed almost to live forgotten by the busy world. More than ever he became retired in his habits. The humble attic rooms he occupied in a house on the Waisen- gasse, boasted but rarely of the presence of a visi- tor. Gaining a scanty livelihood by teaching the rudiments of Greek and Latin to pupils who could i not afford the services of a high-salaried professor, he preferred his own solitude to the pleasures of society. Associates he had formerly delighted in were amazed to see him shrink away, when meet- ing by clance in the streets. A few friends who knew the youg man, and who really loved him, endeavored, by well-timed counsel, to change his mode of life, but in vain. Max heard them throuigh 186   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        187 patiently, and thanked them, but continued to be as much of a recluse as ever, and many a well- wisher felt doubts as to the man's sanity. While these friends tliought Edelstein demented, the Armenberg professors, when hearing of his altered demeanor, felt persuaded that remorse was the cause of the change, and in their solicitude for the fate of the young man, they determined to relent in their severity, on condition, howerer, that he should make an absolute and public recantation of his errors. Dr. Ehrenbach, for this purpose, con- descended to call on the poor student, but to his astonishment, he found Max as untractable as ever, and his effort a vain one. With politeness, and yet with firmness, Max Edelstein declined to acoept restoration on such terms, preferring, as he said, honorable poverty to wealth bought at the sacrifice of cherished principles. i Dr. Ehrenbach, himself, notwithstanding the mortification he felt at the boot- less result of his embassy, could not fail to be favor- ably impressed with the young man's courteous and high-toned demeanor, and when the interview came to an end, expressed a hope that, sooner or later, Max would see the error he had committed, and would no longer be an atheist and unbeliever.   188    C HE RR Y BLOS SO M-t But with all deference to the learned professor, Max Edelgein was neither. Far from it. No man was more truly, more sincerely God-fearing and re- ligions. Max Edelstein' while declining to take his seat in the Armenberg University lecture-room, had chosen the greatest teacher mortal man can have. Nature herself, henceforth, became his instructor. Her workings, so grand, so faultless, so wondrous, he studied with unremitting ardor. It is a won- drous book, this great Nature, a work replete with . wisdom, instruction and beauty. Thousands are reading it in every part of the globe, and, nowhere is it held in higher honor than among those who depend solely on its pages for instruction. It is a reproach to civilization that the study of nature is too often sacrificed for less instructive less delightful pursuits. In our own times, however, a better state of things has become apparent, and the learned of all countries have more and more devot- ed their energies to the cultivation of physical sciences. But let us return to Edelstein. The study. of nature taught him, far better that any book, God's love and foresight for all created things, while at the same time it impressed his mind far' more   CHERRY BLOSSOM .       189 powerfully thanjere 4ds could do, with the greatness of the Creator and the utter insignificance of -man.- The majesty and grandeur of the Almighty, indeed, is incomirehensible;  The bounds of human reason are too narrow and con- fined to allow us to form a just conception of the Divine Spirit, whol has called suns, planets and moons into being and harmony.  No man, no book, no word, no writing, can give us as irn pressive a conception of God's power as the me sight of his works, and yet how little do we know even of our own small planet. Beyond these earthly bounds are thousands of planets and thousands of suns, that all alike revolve around the central sun. Yet no book, no man has given us the number even of the other worlds, or has told us anything definite as to their inhabitants. Small, indeed, is our much-boasted of intelligence, and limited are our reasoning powers. Though we have utilized lightning and propel ourselves by steam, though we have made wonderful dis- coveries and filled our libraries with hard-gained knowledge, we have not yet been able to form a true conception of God. Like the pagans of olden times, we judge him with mortal eyes, and forget I    190    CHEERRY BLOSSOM. that the Divine Spirit, whose creatures we are, has, by imposing a barrier on our understanding, said to these rash judges, "Thus far but no farther." The earth and its works--a mighty field-were given by God to man to cultivate, to explore, and to enjoy; but he Who made our star, made count- less other, stars concerning which we know but little. How, then, can we judge God, when we cannot judge even all his works?  Thus reasoned Max Edelstein in his contempla- tions of nature, and he acknowledged the power of the Creator with awe and reverence, and in the bhumility of his heart he loved his Maker. But love toward God, to be of value,- must also be shared by love of man for his fellow-man, the being whom we should regard as our brother, who was enm dowed by thWAlmighty with the same understands ing and with the same reason, and by whose assist. ance only we can hope to elevate ourselves. Love for our fellow an is only subordinate to love of the Almighty. It is born with us, and lives in us. Bu't our passions, those clouds of the heart, too often shroud this feeling of brotherly love, and con- vert it, not unfrequently, into hate and loathing. Max Edelstein, though he did not hate his fellow.   CHIERRY BLOSSOM.       191 men, yet strove to avoid them, by shunning their society. He did not ask of himself whether he was acting right, since he was not in the mood to con- sider calmly, and judge impartially. The bitter trials he had undergone, and the deep sorrow he felt for the loss of his mother, made all companion- ship distasteful to his mind. Thus he stood alone for months, like a link violently severed from the chain of humanity, till time, the healer of all sor- rows, turned aside the flood of misanthropy, and made him yearn in his loneliness, and amid his desolation, once more for associates and friends. It was but natural that this should be the case, for there exists, as We have already intimated, an in- nate feeling in every human breast which impels men to seek intercourse and companionship' with their fellow-men. It is this sentiment which is the true corner-stone of civilization. The family circle, the nomadic tribe, the populous nation could not exist but for this binding ligament. Man without this sentiment would be no higher, perhaps lower, than the beasts of the forest. But for it, we should only be as many outlaws, one preying on the other. Misfortune and affliction may at times overcloud by sorrow this sentiment, but even the greatest   HERRY BLOSS OM.: ,sorrows can never wholly obliterate it. The veriest recluse heart will oft be gladdened by the sight of a human face. And so it was with Edelstein. As time passed on, and sorrow as well as mortification were less keenly felt, he was imperceptibly drawn back into the world. His lonely walks became less frequent, and he no longer avoided meeting his former friends. But Max in his retirement had become more thoughtful and discerning. The study of nature had led him to a study of man. With due discrimination he noted human actions and pas- sions, their greatness and their insignificance, their wisdom and their folly. From this study, Max learned the next great lesson of life, the duty of brotherly love, and well did he follow its man- dates. Poor as he was, he yet, when seeing fellow- men poorer than himself, divided his crust of bread with them, and ministered to their relief from a scanty purse, feeling richly rewarded by the innate consciousness of having done his duty.   CHAPTER XXVI. THE small circle of trusty friends who had yet never forsaken Max Edelstein, were no less de- lighted than astonished at seeing his altered beha- vior, but they were even more surprised when it was announced that he had married. Few would believe it, but they soon found out that the rumor in this instance was well founded.   Margaret Schultz, with whom Max had so abruptly parted, had, a short time after Edelstein's last, visit to Sandthal, lost her father, and having attained her majority was free to dispose of her hand, and the small fortune she inherited, at her pleasure, and re- membering the promise she had made to Edelstein's mother, she hastened to Armenberg, and-again offered to Max her hand and heart. His noble nature at first was opposed to her proposal. Max loved Margaret sincerely, andihe was unwilling to make her the sharer of his poverty. But at last he could not resist her tears and entreaties, and as 194    OHE-RY BLOSSOM. soon as the necessary formalities were gone through with, they were' married in private. Though it was not a gay wedding, it resulted in a happy union. , Margaret, cheerful, contented, and industrious, became to Max a solace and a helper. Life once more ceased to be' with him a, burden. and though his home was humble and his meal was frugal, yet there was no strife, no bitterness. One desirel only Max Edelstein had, and that was, to become reconciled to his father; but neither parent' nor son, though their hearts desired for a recon- ciliation, were willing to abandon what they deemed their duty, for affection, and thus all inter- course between them was broken off.   CHAPTER XXVII. IT was about a year after. Max Edelstein's mar- riage that Margaret informed her husband of the coming of new neighbors. Two young Americans, a brother and sister, had taken a suite of apart- ments which had been vacant on the same floor for some time. "They seem to be very fine people," said Mar- garet, "and I like their looks, but it seems strange that they should want to- leave their own country and come here, when so many thousand Germans emigrate to America." "It is not quite as strange as you think, my dear," answered Max. "The young man has come to Armenberg to study medicine at our univer-  sity." "Indeed! Who told you so!" "The young gentleman himself." "Then you have already seen him. How did you come to speak with him?"   196    CHEI R Y B L OSSOM. "Professor Ehrenbach sent him to me. I am to help him on with his Greek and Latin." "The old professor does not seem to have forgot- ten you, Max." "Oh, no; Dr. Ehrenbach rather favors me, not- withstanding that he and I do not agree in all things, and his sending Mr. Lee to me, gains me another good scholar."  "You say his name is Lee?" "Yes, my dear, I think you will like both him and his sister. They seem both to be very agree- able. By the by, I almost forgot that the young lady asked me to tell you that she would call on you to-morrow, if it suited you." "Oh, most certainly. To tell you the truth, I rather like their looks." "You fill find her a pleasant companion, my dear. But we must do our best to help +hom along, since they are strangers and unacquainted with our German customs." "Of course I shall do all in my power, Max. I am truly glad that they have come here. I sha'i not find it half so lonesome hereafter, when you are , gone out. I will do my best to please them." "That's right, my dear. We ought to be neigh-   CHERRY BLOSSOM.       197 borly. Who knows but that these young Americans may be able to assist uis one day. ' Kindness never goes unrewarded." "Oh, Max, I would not oblige any one with the expectation to be rewarded for it," replied Mar- garet, quickly. "No, I do notthink you would, nor did I mean to say that you should be polite to our new neigh- bqg in the hope of a reward, but, at any rate, we are the gainers by their coming here, since I have a new pupil, and you a companion, who can tell you all about the new world, and to whom you can speak of the Fatherland." n "Oh, I shall like it so much! I wnt to hear all about America," said Margaret. "I think, 'Max, if we could only go there, we would soon get rich." "Why, my dear," the husband replied, smiling, "you are like a good many other people who think America an El Dorado. Men there, and women too, have to work as hard as we do here, and some- times even harder." Is that so?" "You can ask Miss Lee when she comes to- morrow." "But why do so many go there from here?"   198    CHERRY BLOSSOM. ^ "Because it'is a free country, I suppose, and be- cause also there is more land there, and a man with a small capital and a good constitution can, if he is not averse to hard work, gain a better livelihood." According to her promise, Miss Lee called the next day on Mrs. Edelstein, from whom she met with a cordial reception. The impression the two women made on each other was mutually satis- factory. Each saw in the other's countenance that look of sympathy which needs not the service of the tongue to indicate its presence, and each also felt that friendship was not unworthily bestowed. Al- most at their first meeting Margaret Edelstein and Cora Lee became cordial friends, and they saw with pleasure that their example was followed by Max Edelstein as well as Henry Lee. The latter profited surprisingly by his new teacher's instructions, and made rapid progress in his studies. With the in- domitable energy which the young American pos- sessed, he was invariably in the front ranks, and *five years after his arrival at Armenberg, he gra- duated with distinguished honors. The five years were a period indeed of deprivation, especially for Cora. Unremittingly she had worked with her needle during that time to help her brother along,   CHERRY BLOSSOM        199 never complaining, but always anxious for his suc- cess. From home all hope of aid had suddenly been destroyed by Mr. Charles Blossom's untimely death, and the poor sister, while shedding silently her tear of sorrow for her riatives, had worked harder. But at last her reward was to come. Almost as soon as Henry Lee had graduated, a change of rulers took place in the Duchy of Seelen- hausen. The old duke, it was gravely announced by the Armenberg Court Joiurnal, had gone to sleep with his illustrious predecessors. Le roi est mort! Vie le Yoi! was the palace cry, as Victor Emanuel became the ruler of the Duchy of Seelen- hausen. The new duke, a young man scarcely twenty-five years of age, had just completed his travels when called upon to assume the reins of government, much perhaps against his will. Good- natured, but rather indolent, he would have pre- ferred private life to cares of state, and it was not without a mistrust of his own powers that he entered on his new duties. He made, however, a good bo- ginning by relaxing much of the severity his uncle had displayed in his later years, and thus he readily won the confidence and conciliated the affections of his subjects. Youtg Henry Lee, with a doctor's   200    OERRY BLOSSO . diploma, not twelve months old, in his pocket, was surprised to receive the nomination of Hofrath,* from the young ruler of Seelenhausen. Dr. Lee owed this elevation to accident more than to merit,  though his merit afterward fully justified the duke's choice. This unlooked for distinction gained to Dr. Lee at once the envy of many older practi-    ( tioners, and what was more desirable, a lucrative practice. He now relinquished for the present the idea of returning to America, and resolved to re- main at Armenberg. His improved circumstances also altered his mode of life. With unspeakable satisfaction Henry was able to install his sister as mistress of a well fitted-up establishment. The- second floor apartments of the same house whose attic chambers they had shared with the Edelsteins l for many years were now their residence, while horses and a carriage were at Cora's service. Still in their manners both brother and sister were as pleasant as ever. Their improved circumstances did not interrupt their intimacy with the Edelsteins. Dr. Lee, indeed, had repeatedly endeavored to force his former tutor to accept aid from him, but in vain. * The German title for physicians employed by princely houses. e     .               .   H E RRY BLOSSOM.       201 Max Edelstein, though poor, preferred'to earn his bread by the drudgery of the schoolroom than to be indebted to his young friend. "My dear doctor," said Max, on one occasion, when Henry Lee had unsuccessfully tried to make him accept a sum' of money, " you ought to be more saving. You may have a wife and children one of these days." "Doubtful," briefly replied Dr. Lee. "Why  Don't you intend to marry?" "Not yet a while, at any rate. I have plenty of time, and can afford to wait." "Perhaps you may wait too long." "Oh, by no means. I am hardly twenty-five, and Aristotle, as well as Plato, advocate the policy of waiting till the thirtieth year be passed." "There you are again quoting philosophy," And are you no admirer of philosophy?" "Most certainly. I am in favor of early philo- sophical inquiry, for philosophy is, after all, nothing but the art which instructs us how to live, and men who desire to live with honor and profit to them- selves and the rest of the world, should make them- selves acquainted at an early age with correct phi- losophical rules. But I declare I have no patience   202    aHERRY   BLOSSOM. with men, who in pursuit of what they term philo- sophy, become neglectful of all save a pile of -half worm-eatef books." "You are right, Max, but I am not liable to this reproach." "Certainly not, but you ought to remember that it is not good for man to live alone. Marriage is a tie which unites us to society, and it is a custom well established all the world over. Since you are quoting the Greeks, it would not be remiss in you that one of their most learned men said, N6o ots treafat TroTatv yopioti KaXov. "The country's custom to observe Is proper, and does praise deserve." "Very well said, Herr Edelstein," laughingly re- plied Dr. Le. "But at present I have to see my patients. If you will only come to my room this evening, you shall give me more of your admirable philosophy for the most famous of Turkish tobacco. You shall smoke it out of a bondfide meerschaum pipe, such a one as the Padisha himself, would not disdain to put to his lips."             j Agreed," said Max. "Then, farewell, till evening."   CHAPTER    XXV1iI. WHAT a variety of people a doctor's sick list is composed of. The rich, the poor, the young, the old, the fretful and the cheerful, the proud and the humble, are each to be ministered to. It kept Dr. Lee very busy this visiting of his patients, and we are afraid sometimes tried his patience severely, especially during the summer-time, when foreign visitors brought their pain-stricken bodies to Armen- berg, to be recuperated from the exhausting effects of a winter's season at the gay capitals. There Eng- lish milords and Russian countesses were seen by hundreds at the hot-springs, each more anxious than the other to have the best of attendance. Dr. Lee had his hands full, and besides, also, was re- quired daily at the castle to inquire after the young duke's health. This visit, though hardly anything more than one of ceremony, since the Duke of See- lenhausen was in an excellent state of preservation, was often of more than an hour's duration. The 208   204    CHERRY TSqS BO M. duke delighted in conversation, and especially so with Dr. Lee. News, politics, literature, music and even town scandal, all were discussed when Dr. Lee made his appearance at the ducal residence at noon. The young physician had, in fact, established, even against his will, an ascendency over his patron. The latter hardly ever undertook any important matter without consulting his medical adviser. To do Dr. Lee full justice, it must be admitted that he never abused the influence he had'acquired, and often saved, by timely interposition, the duke from the mortification of committing a rash act, which he otherwise would have done, had he lis- tened to less discreet counsellors. Among those who escaped undeserved punishment, thanks to Dr. Lee's efforts, was Max Edelstein. Max had in- curred, by some means or other, the displeasure of one of the courtiers, who had denounced him to the duke. The next day, when Dr. Lee called at the castle, the d ke mentioned the matter and asked the physician if he knew the man. "Yes, your highness," replied Dr. Lee. "I know him very well." "Where does he live?" "In the same house where I do."   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        205 "Have you known him for along time?" He is the oldest acquaintance I have in Armen- berg. He used to give me Latin and Greek lessons when I first came here." "Is he dangerous? I am told he is a socialist." "Your highness may rest assured that Max Edel- stein is perfectly harmless. True, he is somewhat eccentric, but all in a quiet way. I will vouch for his conduct." "Well, I am glad to hear it is no worse, though your quiet, eccentric men will often, when there is a chance, make as much noise as anybody. But you know I hate to have trouble in my little prin- cipality. Great kings and emperors may find it a pastime to confine philosophers and revolutionary leaders in dungeons or fortresses, but I like better to have nothing of the kind to do." "But if forced to inflict a punishment, you would have to resort to thp prison system." "Not by any means.  I think with the old Athenians, that ostracism is a far better mode of punishing and gettjng rid of our political adver- saries."  "How so, your highness?" "'For four reasons. In the first place, banishment 4   206    CHEnRY 'BLOSSOM. is an honorary badge of disgrace, and does not de- moralize a man as prison discipline does. In the    : second place, it enables the banished to live in free- ! dom in some other country, and thereby, in the third place, does not deprive him of an opportunity to earn his daily dread. But the fourth reason with me is the strongest, because banishment does away with jailers and prisons, those instruments of cruelty which are often the means of embittering o more than necessary the already hard lot of a po-  litical prisoner,. and in nine cases out of ten the obloquy for'the petty persecutions of the jailer falls on the sovereign, though he may be perfectly ignorant of it." "But your highness must recollect," said Dr.  Lee, "that banishment leaves the men sent into ex- ile almost at perfect liberty to work ruin and injury  to the country they are banished from. Did not Coriolanus bring an army of Volcians to the walls of Rome, because his countrymen had sent him  into exile?" "Such instances, I think, are but exceptions to the rule. To one of these I can count ten adverse ones. Aristides and Cimon were banished; so was Themistocles. The former two lived to return to   H E RRY   BLOSSOM.        207 their country and to do good for evil, while the victor of Salamis took poison at Magnesia, because the Persian king, his country's enemy, expected him to become the leader of an army to be sent for the invasion of Greece.  In Coriolanus, and in Alcibiades, it is true, we see men doing their utmost to  bring about the   ruin of their own country, but even there the animosity they felt was more against the government then in existence, than against their country. Every human heart is endowed with a feeling of love for his native land. How truly-has the bard of Abbotsford described this sentiment, when heays: "Breathes there a man with soul so dead Who never to himself hath said, This is my own, my native land! - Whose heart hath ne'er within him burned, As home his footsteps he hath turned, From wandering on a foreign strand? If such there breathe, go mark him well; For him no minstrel raptures swell; High though his title, proud his name, Boundless his wealth as wish can claim; Despite those titles, power and pelf, The wretch concentred all in self, Living shall forfeit fair renown, And doubly dying shall go down,    208     CHERRY    BLOSSO To the vile dust from whence he sprung, Unwept, unhonored and unsung." "( Your highness seems to be well acquainted with English classics," said Dr. Lee. "I have ted most of the English poets," an- swered the duke, "but I confess that Walter Scott is my favorite. Sir Walter resembles more than any other modern poet, our old Troubadours, and Meistersaenger. The old knights of the middle ages could wish for no better chronicler of their warlike deeds. Sir Walter's ' Lay of the Last Min- strel,' and his ' Marmion,' are, in my opinion, perfect gems of art, and  his description of Flodden's bloody field, in the latter poem, is the best descrip- tion of a battle-field which has ever been given. How finely too he narrates the heroic death of the bold and bad Marmon: "With dying hand above his head, He shook the fragment of his blade, And shouted 'Victory  charge Chester, Charge On Stanley I On ' Were the last words of Marmion. "Could a dying scene more impressively, more briefly, be described in words? Whe ever I readSir --i    CHERRY BLOSSOM.        209 Walterls poety, I feel myself carried back from this practical and matter-of-fact age, to the days of chivalry." "Really, your highness," said Dr. Lee, " as your medical adviser, I will have to interfere, and burn Walter Scott as Don Quixote's niece did her uncle's librar'y." "Ah, you may laugh at me, doctor," replied the duke, " but I often sigh for the good old times of crusades and tournaments, of which you Ameri- cans know nothing." "I beg your highness' pardon. We have re- vived the tournament in Virginia." "Ah, indeed!" "And the victorious knight, as of old, bends his knee before the Queen of Beauty, who encircles his brow with the 1 urel wreath." "You   ricans are a great people," said the duke. "But  e will, one of these days,be greater," answered Dr. Lee. "No doubt of it, dear doctor. As the case is at present, nearly every peasant in my duchy wishes to emigrate to America. Zounds, sir! I shall have hardly a man left in Seelenhausen, if this keeps on in the way it has done."   210    CHERRY BLOSSOM. "I have no fear of that, your highness. S hce your accession to the throne, the people generally have expressed more satisfaction with the govern- ment, and I say it without flattery that your sub- jects have no reason to be dissatisfied." "I am truly glad to hear this," said the duke. "I believe that the people have rights as well as the sovereign, and it is unwise in the latter to dis- regard these rights. Sooner or later, the day of retribution comes, and a people in rebellion becomes a maddened mob, whose destructiveness levels all ranks and all distinctions." "There is a good deal of truth in this, your high- ness, but many rebellions and revolutions are spoken of in history as being unaccompanied by violence." "I know it, but for the present my endeavor will be to make a rebellion in Seelenhausen unneces- sary. You say, doctor, that you will vouch for your friend, Edelstein?"  '"Most certainly." "Then he shall not be disturbed." "Thank you, your highness," said Dr. Lee, as he took his leave.   CHAPTER XXTY. PooR Max Edelstein heard from Dr. Lee, not without surprise, that he had become an object of suspicion in the eyes of government. The feeling of alarm, however, was changed to one of gratitude when his friend spoke of his interference, and the duke's promise that he should not be disturbed. But Max was yet to be tried still more in the cruci- ble of affliction. His wife fell sick. Margaret had been ailing for some time. Unremitting labor had seriously injured her system; consumption had slowly but surely made sad havoc with her consti- tution, and Dr. Lee saw at a glance, that his skill could not save the poor woman. He, however, insisted that Margaret should no longer work, and his sister, well-remembering the many acts of kind- ness which Margaret Edelstein had done for her in former years, became the invalid's nurse, and at- tended her with self-sacrificing care. No daughter could have watched with greater anxiety at lier \s,    212    CHER  Y BLOSSOM. mother's bedside, than Cora Lee did at that of her friend, and Margaret as well as her husband was unable to express the thanks they owed to Cora and her brother. Edelstein's prophecy, made years ago, when Henry Lee and his sister first came to Armen- berg, that the two Americans would yet assist them, was literally fulfilled, and Margaret, while lying on her bed of sickness, often remembered her hus- band's words, that kindness was never thrown away. While summer lasted, M[argaret's case had not been very alarming, but when the leaves fell sere and yellow to the ground, and the cool October winds swept across the stubble-covered fields, the invalid's health failed more rapidly, and Cora Lee hardly ever left Margaret's bedside. The days were gloomy enough for the two, but the evenings, when Dr. Lee and Edelstein were at home, passed more pleasantly. Max especially was entertaining, and always had some story ready as soon as the ordinary topics of conversation became exhausted. A plea- sant custom is this story-telling, and worth listening to are those who know how to tell a story well. It is a peculiar gift of which but few among us can boast, and therefore, perhaps, story-telling does not flourish with us as greatly as with the Orientals.   CHEER  Y BLOSSOM.      213 Among the imaginav213 Among the imaginative sons of the East, whether in the desert or in the palace, it thrives and grows. From the days of Homer to the present time, the eastern nations have been remarkable for this trait of character. Even now the Arabs of the desert have regular story-tellers in each tribe, and as the sun sets glowing in the west, these followers of the Prophet will listen to the tales of Sheherazade, with as much rapture and attention as we bestowed on them ourselves when reading them surreptitiously during school hours in our younger days. 3    , CHAPTER XXX. IT is November in Armenberg. Winter already has made his appearance. All day long the great white snow flakes have been flying through the air. Houses, fences, trees, and streets are all clothed in white, and the sleigh-bells have sounded merrily and constantly. But, toward evening, the north- east wind gains strength, and its chilling notes have driven man and beast to look for shelter. The lamp-lighter has long ago finished his rounds, and save the iachAtWchter,* with their horns and hourly chants, but few of the citizens are away from home. In Edelstein?s attic, the dim burning oil-lamp casts its sombre reflection on the room and its inmates. The invalid wife lays on her couch, weary of life and anxious for her still absent husband, while gentle Cora Lee is waiting so anxiously for her brother to come. At last footsteps are heard on the * "Fachtwfichter "-the German for night-watchman 214   CHERRY   BLOSSOM.      215 staircase, and both Margaret and her nurse are listening as the sounds become more distinct. "Max is coming, Miss Lee. I know his footsteps," says Margaret, and she was right in her conjectures. A few minutes after, the door opened and Edelstein entered, whitened by the snow, and chilled by the night air, but with a cheerful countenance, as his "Good evening" salutation plainly showed, As soon as he has taken off his coat and brushed the snow from his face, he seats himself at his wife's bedside and asks how she is getting along. There is, perhaps, a slight tremor when he perceives that her temples and cheeks are very hot, but he is re- assured by her answer. "'Thank you, Max," she says,. "I feel a little better. Miss Cora has been with me nearly the whole afternoon." "Oh, Miss Lee, I owe you an everlasting debt of gratitude," said Max, "for the care you are taking of my poor Margaret." "Not at all, Mr. Edelstein," replied Cora. "I am so used to your wife's society, that I cannot really help coming up here, while my brother is away." "Oh, Miss Lee, however you may belittle the   216    c H E   BLOSSOM. acts of kindness you are doing us, we can never for- get them. I have often doubted the existence of angels, and do so yet, but, if any exist, they cannot  surpass you in goodness." "Really, Mr. Edelstein, this is too bad. I should never have supposed that so earnest a hater of flattery would turn flatterer himself." "My dear young lady, you do wrong to charge me with being a flatterer, whenI am only telling you the truth. 'Praise well deserved is worth listening to. But I am almost afraid that your constant attendance on my poor wife will make you low- spirited, andfperhaps injure your own health. Your  devotion is of too self-sacrificing a nature. Not at all, Mr. Edelstein," said Cora; " neither Henry nor myself will ever forget your exertions  in our behalf when we first came friendless to  Armenberg. But you must not forget that as yet you have had no supper; you must be hungry "  "Certainly I am, Miss Lee," replied Max, ashe  ! seated himself at the table and drank the steaming hot coffee Cora had poured out for him. A slice of buttered bread and a-piece of cold meat, the remains of the dinner, constituted the even- ing meal, and Max, after having finished, again   CHERRY   BLOSSOM.      217 came to Ma'igaret's bedside, waiting for Dr. Lee to come, in order to learn his opinion as to his wife's condition. Dr. Lee entered shortly afterward, and after kissing his sister and wishing Max good evening, inquired of Maraet as to her health, while feeling her pulse. The young physician was evidently not satisfied with Margaret's declaration of feeling somewhat better. On the contrary, he had but slender hopes of saving the poor woman's life. He saw that she was fast sinking, and that ere spring would come all would be over. Still he hesitated to alarm his friends, and while giving lhope he knew that there was none.  Dr. Lee feYt embar- rassed by this necessity for deception, but the in- valid herself, with a woman's keen perception and ready wit, had divined w  what as passing through her medical adviser's heard. Perhaps also the con- sciousness of approaching dissolution was too unmis- takably felt within her. At all events, she resolved to prepare her husband for the parting scene be- tween them on earth. "Max," said she to Edelstein, after Dr. Lee had seated himself near his sister, will you read me your story of King Darius?"    218    CHERRY BLOB SOM. "Oh, Margaret, it will excite you too much!" "Never fear, Max; Dr. Lee says a little excite- ment is what I want. Is it not so, doctor ." "A little may do you good, but not too much," said Dr. Lee. 'c Then read us the story, Max, I know Cora will like to hear it also." "Of course, I shall; I know it must be a good one if Mr. Edelstein wrote it," replied Cora. "The story is not altogether of my own inven- tion," said Max, producing the manuscript, "but I have altered it a little, and called it "THE STORY OF KING DARIUS. "When the great king Darius, the ruler of the Persians, and the successor of thegreat Cyrus, had been told by his chief physicians, astrologers, and soothsayers, that his days on earth were numbered, he called together his sons and his daughters and all their children, with all the people of his house-. hold. When these had. all been assembled around his bedside, he ordered the attendants-to prop up his head with pillows, that he might be able to   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        219. speak with ease. After his bidding had been ful- filled, the great king Darius opened his mouth and spoke as follows: 'l 'Make proclamation to our subjects that the king' Darins is about to set out on a journey.' "The words of the king created great astonish- ment among the courtiers, but several bent their knees and asked to be permitted to accompany the king. The great Darius smiled at this token of their readiness, and continued. "I thank you, my friends, for your willingness to bear me company;, I have need of but one com- panion, and he has already been selected. I know the love and affection-you bear me, and I trust that you will bear the same toward my son Xerxes. My sons, obey your brother and he will take the place of your father. Seek his counsel, and when he wishes to be advised, speak as you best know how. Let him be girded with the sword of the great Cyrus, and let the jewelled crown which is guarded in my treasury in the palace of Susa be placed on his head, for he is worthy to sit on the throne, and pass judgment, and to lead the Persians in battle against their enemies. "'You, my daughters, who have been the pride   220    CHERRY BLOSSOM. and pleasure of my eyes, remember the duty you owe to your husbands, and the affection you should entertain toward your offspring. Let your chastity be above reproach, and rear up youl, children in the path of virtue and righteousness, that they may honor their father and their mother, and become useful citizens hereafter. "'You, my faithful attendants, who have for so many years ministered to my comfort, and have aided me in war and peace, by your good swords and sage counsels, behold in Xerxes your future king. As for myself, I shall no longer need your help, for I am about to set out on a long journey, with a single companion. A silent, but a faithffl friend he is, but his presence is ever felt, and his wisdom unfailing. Ere I had been seated on the throne of the great king Cyrus, the like of whom has never been on earth, this friend was with me, and has guarded me from doing wrong. His name is Conscience. "' In his company alone,' continued the king Darius, 'shall I undertake this long journey. In his company shall I leave the abode of the living and go into the presence of the King of kings, whose countenance is more glorious to behold than   CHERRY BLOSSOM.       221 the splendor of the planet Saturn, and whose know- ledge and wisdom surpasseth all belief. "'When I shall have come into the presence of the great King of kings, whose name ever be praised, with my companion, I will fall on my knees and bow my head to the goenid, for his countenance is too glorious for the sons of the earth to look at, and my voice will say, "Father of the Universe, Almighty Creator, Darius, the son of Hystaspes, he whom thou didst choose to become the successor of the great ling ,Cyrus, even he, the most humble and undeserving of thy servants, has come hither at thy bidding to give an account of his stewardship. Full three score years and ten has he been a wanderer on earth, ere his toil was done. Great and many have been his trespasses, fomweak is the flesh of man, and prone to tempta- tion. But the evil he has done, thou, Almighty Father, hast turned into good. ' May his sins be forgotten and his omissions not be remembered against him. Oh, King of kings, look with grace upon thy unworthy servant and let him find favor in thine eye." ' Thus having humbled myself before the great King of kings, I shall await in silence for my corn-   222    o HERRY BLOSSOM. panion Conscience to speak, for he is a good pleader and knows the actions of my life as well as  their motives, for has he not been near me and watched over me as constant as you see the seven stars in the firmament, whereby the mariners guide the course of their vessels? Of him the Almighty ruler of the universe will demand the account of my stewardship, and there at the great gate of final justice I will have to stand even as. the crimi-  nal stands at the gate of the city of Susa. "'The King of kings, he whose wonderful works you behold in summer and in winter; he who has made the night and the day; he who lets the sun shine and causes the rain to fall; he who provides for all his creatures, even for the worm creeping on the ground and the young ravens deserted by their mother; even he who has created the sun, the moon, and the stars, he will in his mercy take me again to his bosom, where I shall await your comn- ing. It will not be long, for man's time on earth is butt short, and then his body returns to the soil, and the soul goes back to God.' "Thus spoke the great king Darius, the son of Hystaspes the successor of the great King Cyrus, and he slept with his fathers." ' . '-  ^   8   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        223 "Max, my dear," said Margaret, when her hus- band had finished reading, " come to ite." "What is it, my dear?" he asked, tenderly as he leaned over the bed and kissed her face. "Max, my dear husband," she said, gently, "Iisten to me. Your poor bed-ridden wife is about to undertake the journey of the great king Darius. Like the mighty ruler of the Persians, I am about to set out for the unknown kingdom, with my con- science only for a companion, while you will leave to sojourn on earth a short time longer." "Oh, Margaret, do not say so!" entreated Max. "You will get better-you will live." M"My dear, husband," continued the invalid, " do not endeavor to buoy me up with a delusive hope. I feel that my hour is soon to come. My race on earth is about finished. Remember that it is God's will that I shall go, and we ought not to murmur at the Almighty's decrees. Let us acknowledge with gratitude rather his goodness and foresight. The regret I feel, dear Max, in parting from you, becomes less bitter when I think of our reunion hereafter in a better world." Margaret now sank back, exhausted by her. eff6rts, buf still keeping h)er husband's hand   224    COH ERRY BLOSSOM. grasped within her own. Inexpressible was the anguish depicted on Edelstein's countenance, as he for the first time felt conscious of his wife's real con- dition. Though his tongue had at the moment lost the power to fulfill its functions, the eyes seemed to ask of Dr. Lee whether there was any hope. "While there is life there is hope," said the phy- sician, as he rose from his seat and administered to  the invalid an opiate. "Do not let her talk too much, Max, else I shall not be able to answer for the consequence." "But do you really think there is any danger?" asked Cora of her brother. "I cannot say yet. Margaret is naturally of a  very nervous temperanent, and has been too much excited this evening. She must be kept quiet. The medicine I have given her will set her to sleep, and it depends in a great measure how she will feel when she awakes, whether there is any danger or not. Come, Cora, we had better go home. Good night, Edelstein; let them call me if anything happens in the night." "Good night, doctor; good night, Miss Lee," said Max, his heart almost sinking beneath his sor- erow. * k'             CHAPTER   XXXI. " O, Harryl " said Cora to her brother, when they had reached their own apartments, "I hope Margaret will tot die. Her loss would be a heavy blow to Edelstein." "Yes, I really believe so myself, Cora," replied Dr. Lee, " ut there is very little ground to hope for anything else. Margaret herself seems to be aware that such is the case."  II could not keep from crying, when the poor woman told her husband this evening that she was to set out on her last journey like the great king Darius. It made me think of poor Kate Atherton, who died at school."  "Yes, I remember poor Kate," said the doctor. "She was a glorious creature, handsome as well as gifted."  "Oh, Harry, she wrote beautiful poetry. I have yet kept the verses she wrote to her lover on her d   10*        22   226      CHERRY BLOSSOM.  death-bead. You know she was engaged to be married." "Yes, I do." "Here are the verses," said Cora, taking a leaf yellow with age from  her bureau drawer.    I was scarcely ten years old then, but I have kept them ever since." "Give me your hand, beloved mine, Your lips press on my face. Once more as token of lang syne, Let me at your eyes gaze. "' Remember, dear, when I am gone To better life from here, That once poor Katy Atherton For you had smile and tear. "' That when the shade of evening came, She watched thee from her gate, And with a maiden's modest shame, Did she her lover wait. "'Oh, how she listened to thy words, So earnest and so true, It touched her bosom's inmost chords To earn sweet praise from you. "' Oh, then she hoped they ne'er would part, Their life together end, Two beings with a single heart, Till He should for them send.                     .    CHERRY    BLOS SOMa.       227 "'Yet God hath in His wisdom will'd That she should sleep ere yet A score of years had scarce been fill'd, And soon she will be dead. "In heaven she will pray for you, And wait till you come there, For are you not her lover true, For ever, everywhere? "'Then give your hand, beloved mine, Your lips press on my face, Once more as token of lang syne, Let me at your eyes gaze.' "Is this not touching " asked Cora, of her brother, as she finished reading. "Oh, it will do well enough, for a school-girl," said the doctor; "but the verses make me think of home.  It is almost time we should have another letter from Cherry."  "Yes, it seems rather strange that she has not written ere this. It is over four months since we had a letter." "May be she is in love, and has nottiime to think of anything else."           , "Oh, Harry, are you not ashamed to say so?" "Why so a?"   228    CHERRY BLOSSOM. "She is too young to think of lovers." "Not a bit, Cora. -You seem to forget the years which have passed since last you saw her. Our cousin Cherry by this time must be nearly seventeen years of age-just the time for women to think of love, moonlight walks, charming cava- liers "- "Stop, Harry, stop 1" exclaimed Cora, laughing, and putting her small white hand firmly over the doctor's lips. The ringing of the door bell a minute afterward put an end to further explana- tion. Cora, with a "Wonder who this can be?" on her lips, took up the candle, and opened to door, and at a glance at the yellow livery of the figure waiting outside, saw that it was the postman. "Einen Brief fur Fraulein Lee : vier gute Gro- schen (a letter for Miss Lee: four good gro- schen ")* revealed at once the object of his coming. Oh, Harry," Cora revealed, -" here is a letter. Quick, pay the man for his trouble." "Certainly," replied the doctor, while taking out his purse and handing the amount required to the  ! postman. "Where is it from, Cora?" * Groschen-the twelfth part of a German thaler. - 6      '   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        229 "This is Cherry's handwriting, but. the postmark is Strasbourg." "You don't say so! Open it, Cora, and let us hear what it is all about." "Wait a moment, Mr. Impatience, can't you?" replied Miss Lee, as she took her scissors out of the work-basket, and with characteristic womanly neat- ness cut the paper around the envelope. "It is from Cherry," she said, as he took out the letter and began reading: "STRASBOURG, October 30, 18- "DEAR COUSIN CORA. The postmark and the date of this letter no doubt constitute conclusive evidence that I am a wanderer in foreign lands. A few lines at present must suffice to tell you how it came about. Last spring I had a dreadful spell of sickness, and Uncle John, mainly on my account, gave up business, in order to take me abroad. It is now almost two months since we left America. I would have written you ere this, had I not hoped to surprise you by an unexpected visit. Uncle John's health, however, is not very good, apd we have been advised to spend the winter in Italy. We will, if possible, come to Armenberg in the spring, and stay there during the summer. Write   230    CHERRY BLOSSOM. to me as soon as you get this, and direct your letter 'to Florence, where we will stop some time. Give Dr. Lee my regards; Uncle John sends his best wishes to you and him. "Yours truly, "CHARLOTTE BLOSSOM. "P. S.-Uncle John wishes to engage a house ill Armenberg for the summer. If you can find a   - small one with a nice garden, have the goodness to engage it for us.          C. B." "I am really glad they are coming," said Cora; "'I should like to see Cherry very much. Do you know of any house which would suit them, Henry'?" "Really I cannot tell at present, but there is time enough. They are not coming till spring." "I wish they were here now," said Cora; "I wish I could go to Florence and bring them here." "Why can't you? A trip to Italy would do you good." "Would you go with me, Harry?" "How  can I, with a lot of patients on my hands"V'   CHERRY BLOSSOM.       231 "Let some other doctor take charge of them." "That's impossible; I cannot do that; but I do' not see why you cannot go alone." Oh, dear -Harry; I could not think of leaving you; you are all" all to me, Were anything to happen to you while I was away, I could ,never forgive myself. Besides, only think of the heavy expense of the journey. No, I would rather stay with you than see a thousand Italys." "But Cora," said Doctor Lee, "you ought not to deprive yourself in that way; I am able to let you take a holiday trip. You have assuredly worked hard enough to have one." "Now, Iarry, don't tease me; ;iould not have any pleasure in the journey if you were not with me. JI dare say the time will roll round fast enough till Cher'y and her uncle arrive. Meanwhile, we must endeavor to find them a house." "Certainly, we must, and we must also endeavor to make their stay here agreeable; it is but a trifle which we can do in order to show our sense of gra- -titude for all that Cherry's father has done for us; but for him we should not be here now." "Poor Uncle Charles! I wish he could have lived and come here with Cherry."   32    CHEIRY BLOSSOM. "And Aunt Mary too-she was so good and kind-hearted! I only hope that Cherry takes after her."' "I have no doubt she does; she always used to be a-good child." "And a great romp, besides." "Which she could not help, seeing that her cousin Harry used to put her up to all kinds of mischief." "That's true enough, Oora," said the doctors laughing; "I was certainly wild enough when a boy." "But you have grown up, my dear brother, to be an honor to society." "Thanks to the wise counsel of my good sister," replied the doctor, kissing Cora's lips, and after bidding her good night, he retired to his room.   CHAPTER XXXII. WHEN Margaret Edelstein had spoken to her hus- band of her approaching end, the effect of her words on Max was severer than she imagined. The poor pedagogue already felt the loss he would be called upon to incur he knew not how sooin. Ere this he had never been fully aware of the necessity Mar- garet had become to him. Where, after her death, he asked himself, should he turn for consolation? Whither for advice? Thoughl at all times an affec- tionate husband, it was then that he showed his leartfelt love. He hardly ever quitted her bed- de, and, though the step cost him many a struggle, e no longer refused to accept pecuniary aid fro' the Lees. The young physician, as well as his sisters did not content themselves merely with replenish- ing Edelstein's purse, but watched and tended the poor invalid with most exemplary care. Amply, indeed, they repaid the debt of gratitude for help in foimer years. Cora especially proved herself 203   234   - CHERRY BLOSSOM. the most tender and careful of nurses, and her efforts did much in lessening Margaret's hours of bitterness. The evening hours, more than any other time of the day, were passed pleasantly in conver- sation between Edelstein and Dr. Lee, and Margaret then felt better and more cheerful, since in listening to ler husband's words, she forgot, in a great mea- sure, her own sufferings.  "I had the pleasure of listening to a most learned disputation to-day, friend Edelstein," said the doctor one. evening, as he came to look after Margaret. - "I only wish you had been present." "Ah, indeed, and what was the subject?'" asked Max Edelstein, as he handed Dr. Lee a chair. "Something about geology in general, and the existence of the world in particular. Dr. Stoltz took the ground that the earth was older than the record of the Bible allows, while Herr Bach, who you know is one of the most orthodox clergymen in Armenberg, stoutly stood up in defence of scriptural tradition." "And I suppose each of the disputants was as firm in his belief at the end as at the beginning of their tongue-encounter," said Edelstein. "Exactly so," said Dr. Lee; but I shou ldlike t',   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        235 have your' opinion on the subject. Who do you think is right? Stoltz or Bach?" "Oh, I agree with Dr. Stoltz certainly. None of us, not even the, greatest geologists living, can form a correct idea as to the immensity of time which has elapsed since the creation of this little earth alone. But ere I go further, allow me to tell you a story of an Arabian * chronicler. It is at once quaint and beautiful, and very strikingly illustrates the changes of position sea and land have undergone in the course of time, though I cannot promise you that the story in question will afford any clue as to the age of the world." "Let us have the story, by all means," said Dr. Lee, " am sure the ladies will like to hear it." Certainly," said both Margaret and Cora. "But it is not a very long one." "So much the better," replied Cora. "You can give us another short one afterward." "That is rather doubtful, as my stock in trade is iather poor," said Max; "but, at all events, I will give you this one." * "Wonders of Nature." Mahomet Kazwini's manuscript in tho Imperial Library at Paris.   236    OHERRY BLOSSOM. "I passed one day," so begins the story, "by a very ancient and wonderfully populous city, and asked one of its inhabitants how long it had been founded. c It is indeed a mighty city,' replied he, 'we know not how long it has existed, and our ancestors were, on this subject, as ignorant as our-  selves.' Five centuries afterward, as I passed by the same place, I could not perceive the slightest vestige of the city. I demanded of a peasant who was gathering herbs upon its former site, how long it had been destroyed. 'In sooth, a strange ques- tion,' replied he. 'The ground here has never been, different from what you now behold it.' 'Was there not of old,' said I, ' a splendid city here V' 'Never,' answered he, 'so far as we have seen, and never did our fathers speak to us of any such.' On my return there five hundred years afterward, I found the sea in the same place, and on its shores were a party of fishermen, of whom I inquired how long the land had been covered by the waters 1' ' Is this a question,' said -they, ' for a man like you  This spot h-rla'  -been what it is now.' I again returnefive hundred"  s afterward, and the sea had disappeared. I inquired of a man who stood alone upon the spot how long ago the change had    CHERRY BLOSSOM.        237 taken place, and he gave me the same answer I had received before. Lastly, on coming back again' after an equal lapse of time, I found there a flour- ishing city, more. populous and more rich in beau- tiful buildings than the city I had seen the first time; and when I would fain have informed myself concerning its origin, the inhabitants answered me, Its rise is lost in remote antiquity; we are ignorant how long it has existed, and our fathers were as ignorant on the subject as, ourselves.' 'Truly,' says Aristotle," contine elstein, "' the changes of the earth are so slow, in comparison to the short- ness of our lives, that they are overlooked, and the migration of people, after great catastrophes, and their removal to other regions, cause the event to be forgotten.' "The science of geology is comparatively modern. Its progress, during the last fifty years, has, how- ever, been rapid. Yet its triumphs have been step- by-step conquests. Like astronomy, it has had to- encounter ecclesiastical opposition./ But, like astro- nomy, it will conquer in the end. When Hutton and Playfair first made the announcement that the earth was older than merely six thousand years, these eminent men and their followers were de-   238     HEERRY BLOSSOM.  nounced as atheists and free-thinkers, and their theory branded as heresy. But'truth hlere, as every- where, has finally prevailed, and the theologians of our days have been forced to admit that a far more liberal interpretation must be given to the account of the creation of the world as detailed in Genesis. A geologist of some note* has, with much ingenuity, argued that the six days mentioned in theScriptures are really as many periods of time, comprising cen- turies of centuries. Unfortunately for this new version, the Bible account asserts that God first created the earthwhile on the fourth day-God is represented as creating the sun, the moon, and the millions of other stars, for no other purpose than to be lights in heaven. Now, what man of sober common sense can give credence to a version which makes the Almighty create first one of the smallest of the heavenly bodies, and which lets two vast periods of time elapse, ere God makes the cdountless other stars? The naive expression that these stars were made for no other purpose than to be lights in the firmament, and to divide the day from the night, * See Hugh Miler's "Testimony of the Rocks," and article en- titled "The Work and the Book," in Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine, October, 1857.   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        239 is perhaps equally as absurd, and plainly shows that the writer, instead of having been inspired by God, must have been sadly deficient in astronomical knowledge. That in olden times this account may have been believed is natural enogoh, since neither telescopes nor observatories w  e then in existence, and no one doubted that' the earth was the centire of the universe; but it is time that a more correct theory should be inculcated. Who can say but that those firmament lights, which our ancestors believed had been created solely to divide day from night, may by peopled by nmore intelligent beings than to-day are on the face of this earth? Even the nearest star to us-our satellite moon-is supposed to have her mountains, her oceans, her forests. Can she not be also the abiding-place of millions of animate beings, like ourselves? "As for the duration of this earth, there is no man living who can tell how many thousands of centuriesjnust have elapsed ere this earth was fit to become the habitation of man. Take the estuary of the greatest river of North America, for example. This delta country of the Mississippi, shows that it is of more recent origin than the land further north, and we yet, at this day, see that it is growing          *      240    C II E,i KR Y B L O S s O . . annually. An eminent geologist* does not hesitate to state that 100,000 years must have been required for the formation of this strip of land. With such convincing evidence before the world, it may not  be unsafe to assume that before another century has  elapsed, the account giveu-in Genesis of the crea- tion will be deemed, by the civilized world, equally as unworthy of belief as the now discredited story in Joshua, of 'the sun standing still upon Gibeon, and the moon in the valley of Ajalon."' "Is Saul among the prophets? Are you tell- ing us of the future, friery-dEdelstein?" asked Dr. Lee. "Certainly not," replied the pedagogue, "for I' do not myself believe in prophets." "Don't you believe in mortals foretelling' the future, Mr. Max?" asked Cora, rather'astonished at his skepticism. "No, Miss Lee, I do not. God's wisdom, I assume, has hid future events from our eyes, but by judging from the past or present, we can some- times make correct suppositions, or prophesies, if you will call them such, as to what will happen. * Sir Charles Lyell: "Principles of Geology," pp. 2'732, '74..   CHEIER   BLOSSOM.      241 In that way, you or I, or anybody else may be a Prophet." "Still, you find that each religion has prophets," interposed Cora. "But each religion denounces the prophets of other creeds," answered Edelstein. "You are a little too fast, friend Max," said Dr. Lee. "The Hebrew  prophets are neither de- nounced nor rejected by Christians and Mohamme- dans." "This is because both of these creeds are founded on the faith of the Hebrew prophets. You will find that Mahomet also acknowledges Jesus as a prophet, but like he does Moses, he places Jesus as inferior to himself. It is only in the darkages, and among superstitious and ill educated men, that pro- phets have met with success. In these latter days, when men have risen up and have claimed to be able to foretell the future or to perform miracles, they have invariably been denounced as cheats and charlatans by the great majority of the civilized world, and their adherents could only be found among the least enlightened and ignorant portion )f the lower classes." "To be sure, our age has been blessed with but a " '     ,   242    CHERRY BLOSSOM.  few prophets, but we have impostors of even a more dangerous character. Look, for instance, at the spiritual delusion. Crafty and unscrupulous persons, dubbing themselves spirit-mediums, prey upon the well-filled purses of weak-minded people,' by cheats and chicanery.  Shakspeare is bom- pletely outdone, though he has given us very toler- able and awe-inspiring ghosts in Hamlet and Macheth.  Our mediums are better and more powerful than the bard of Avon. At short notice, they will, for a valuable consideration of course, rap you up a message either from a deceased fish- monger, or from the great Julius Caesar. The amount you pay for these messages is rather dearer than those the telegraph companies charge, but I  dare say they are received with a greater degree of satisfaction."9 "According to your opinion, then, it is clear that we are as superstitious as our ancestors were," said Dr. Lee. "No, I think not; but I believe that every age, the past as well as the present, has its impostors, who have only differed in name.  Soothsayers, magicians, prophets, astrologers, or spiritualists, all belong to one and the same tribe. Their preten-   OHEtRy BLOSSOM.       243 sions exceed their knowledge, and often smack of impiety and sacrilege. I have no doubt that sonic of them may have had a laudable purpose in view in this pretended exercise of supernatural power, but I am not Jesuit enough to excuse this delusion by citing as a maxim that the end justifies the means. The Almighty has given to each man a due share of reason and common sense for his guidance, but I do not believe that God ever con- versed with any mortal, save through his admirable works. Still less do I believe that he has per- mitted any of us to see into the future. As for the prophets, you may, perhaps, think that I am too rash in this wholesale condemnation; but I am no more severe than the case requires. You may, with as much show of reason, call Dante a prophet as you do Jeremiah. The 'Divina Commedia' abounds in as wild, as unnatural, and as supremely awe-inspiring pictures as the writings of the Hebrew prophet. But Dante, though he describes the world-hereafter, is not regarded as a prophet. We do not even give credence to his descriptions of Hell, Purgatory, or Paradise; still, we can never read- his fine work without pleasure or delight. But woe to the skeptic, who, even now-a-days,   244    dO Hj RRY BLOSSOM. dares to disbelieve that God told Jeremiah to take a girdle and hide it by the banks of the Euphrates."* "I declare" said Cora, laughing, "if the Sultan in the Thousand and One Nights had heard you, poor Sheherazade's life would have been in danger." "Why so, Miss Lee?" asked Edelstein. "Because you would have demonstrated and proved to her lord that all her wonderful stories about goblins, devils, and magicians, were inven- tions out of whole cloth. You would assuredly have beei made Grand Vizier." And perhaps have lost my head for my pains if he had become acquainted with so enchanting a Fatima as a certain Miss Cora Lee." Cora would not make a bad Sultana," said the doctor. "I can almost imagine her seated on the divan, side by side with the great Haroun al Rashid." "Oh," replied Max, "the mighty caliph was a great man, with all his faults. History affords but too few examples of great monarchs like him wil- ling and eager to see things in their right light." * Jeremiah, chap. xiii. ,fi   C H-ER  Y BLOSSOM.      245 "This is because evil counsellors and courtiers are always too ready with misrepresentations," observed Dr. Lee. c"These satellites of power are responsible for far more of the mischief kings do on earth, than the kings themselves." "You are right, doctor; kings, like other mortal men, love praise, even if it is flattery. We fear censure. All our actions are controlled by the one aim of gaining the good opinion of those we come in contact with. Our own conscience too often is disregarded when its convictions are opposed to  these outside influences. We often live in error knowingly, and allow others to live likewise, when we should exert ourselves to effect a reform." "Are you going to turn reformer, Mr. Edel- stein?" asked Cora. "Whenever it is in my power to effect a refor- mation. I try to correct rhy fellow-men when I am myself corrected; but to be able to fill this office, and it is a most thankless one, requires great forethought, vast research, and a constant watch over our own actions. We often do not see the beam in our own eye, While wishing to take the mote out of that of others. We may not unfre- quently be wrong in our assumptions, and teach   2406    OHERRY BLOSSOM. erroneous doctrines, because we do not what is right ourselves." "But Max, you do what is right," fondly -said his wife. "I try to do what is right, my dear, or at least, to do what I believe to be right; even that, though, costs me sometimes a struggle. I often ponder on the hardships poor Galileo underwent when he startled the world with his new theory of the rota- tion of the earth around the sun.' It required far more courage to correct this popular error than to face death on the battle-field." "But did not Galileo impair his renown by abjur- ing what he felt persuaded to be the truth?" asked Dr. Lee. "How much more glorious would it have ,been in Galileo to have stood firm and to have suffered death rather than to make this ignominious recantation?" "You must take into consideration, dear friend," replied Edelstein, " the spirit of the age in which Galileo lived. You must not forget that all Europe was enshrouded in bigotry; that the inquisition hung, like the sword of Damocles, suspended overhead of the votaries of science. What, forsooth, could one weak man effect then by his martyrdom? In our   CHERRY BLO     0SOM.    247 own days, as I have before remarked, men good and  true, men who have devoted their energies to the/  elucidation of scientific truths, have established the fact that the earth is many more thousand years older than we are led to believe by adopting the compu- tation in the Old Testament." "Which, of course, is erroneous," said Dr. Lee. "Of course it is, my friend," continued Max. "But observe how many men there are among us, in the most civilized countries, men of refinement and learning, who feel no compunction in resorting to unmeasured denunciation of the adherents to this doctrine. The whole catalogue of the coarsest and vilest epithets is employed in the attempt of silenc- ing eternal trufth. Woe to the man who will not believe in the possibility of miracles. The pulpits of all Christian creeds will denounce such a belief as downright heresy." "But may not miracles have been performed in former times!" asked Cora Lee. "My dear Miss Lee, it is my opinion, and I only give it as such, that nature is governed by'certain immutable laws. A miracle, as I understand the term, is an operation performed in opposition to these laws; and that I contend to be impossible."   248    CHERRY BLOSSOM.  "Moses made the water flow from the rocks," said Cora. "This surely cannot be impossible." "Then it is no longer a miracle, but a proof of the superior learning and knowledge of Moses, who felt convinced of the presence of a body of water under the rocks in question. On the same grounds the finding of water by boring an Artesian well in the desert, under the direction of French officers, was acknowledged by the Arabs in Algeria as a miracle. The believers of Mahomet will entertain you for hours with an account of the numberless miracles performed by the Great Prophet. The Christian hearer will shrug his shoulders at these wonderful stories, and never cease to regard Ma- homet otherwise than as a great impostor. Joseph Smith, the prophet of the Mormons, also performed miracles, but were not his 'woderful feats the laughing stock of the whole civilized world? Nay, further, does the Protestant believe in the numer- ous miracles worked by Catholic saints? Assuredly not. And thus I might cite numerous similar cases.? to be found with all creeds and all religions. Some believe more and some believe less, seems to be the only difference." "But how do you account for this uniform belief e *   *   CHERRY BLOSS OM.        249 in miracles in all religious systems?" asked Dr. Lee. " ery easily. Men, and uneducated men espe- cially, are attracted and controlled by the more gifted and learned of their fellow-men, whose su- perior knowledge, sagacity or cunning, enables them to undertake projects inexplicable to others unac- quainted with the manner of' execution of these projects.. The Spaniards in possession of muskets and gunpowder, were regarded by the American Indians as divine beings, since they could at will produce lightning and thunder. Faust was thought to be in league with the devil, when he first offered his printed bibles in the French metropolis. Many of the- miraculous stories are as old as the very reli- gion of which they form a part, and it is far easier - to eradicate an old error than to establish a correct principle. Men at all times are slow to sacrifice old-time customs and beliefs for innovations, how- ever meritorious the latter may be. But I suppose you all have heard enough of this, and to change the subject, I will read you the story of the ' Three Beggars,' if you wish to hear it." "Certainly," said the doctor, while Margaret and Cora assented. "*   a*   CHAPTER XXTIII. THERE lived, once on a time, in the town of Osra, three men who, disabled by sickness and wounds were forced to earn their daily bread by imploring the charity of the frequenters of the public high- ways. One of these men had been brought up in the true faith of the prophet, and was called Maho- met ben Habat. The second was a Nazarene, and his name was Dimitri, while the remaining one, Isaac bar Reuben, was one of the sons of Israel. The great Allah, who turneth all evil into good, had made these three unfortunate beggars fast friends unto each other. Though each differed from the other, and one only was a true follower of the pro- phet, no one had ever seen these three men quarrel among themselves. Nay, on the contrary, it had  been their custom to divide equally their daily earnings. As the, evening hour would draw near, they were in the habit of going to the footsteps of the. Great Mosque, which the great Padisha Solyman, 250 o   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        251 whose name ever be. praised, had taken from the Nazarenes many years ago, and dedicated to Allah. There the three beggars put all the gifts they had received at the hands of the charitable together, and they then divided them into three equal parts, so that no one had more than the other to carry home to his family. Thus they had continued to live for many years, and the men and women of the town of Osra, instead of deriding the three beggars, were loud in the praise of their singular friendship, and greatly wondered at the love which Mahomet, the follower of the Prophet, Dimitri, the Nazarene, and Isaac, the Hebrew, entertained for each other. The strangers, too, who came to the town of Osra, never failed, when they returned to their homes, to tell of the three beggars. Thus it came to pass that Abdallah, surnamed the Great, for he was a learned man, heard of this even in the city of Kalfa, where he resided. "By the beard of the prophet," exclaimed Ab- dallah, surnamed the Great, "can it be possible that so strong a friendship should be within the hearts of these three beggars?" And the great Allah moved the spirit of Abdallah, surnamed the Great, to go to the town of Osra, and see whether there I*               .   252    OHERRY BLOSSOM.             2 was any truth in this report. Accordingly, after having told his servants: of whom he had not alfew,  for Allah had blessed him with many, how hewas going on a journey to the town of Osra, and after  . having provided himself with presents and money sufficient for his purpose, he mounted the horse which the emir of Arabia had sent for his use, and set off in company with two servants, for the town of Osra, even though it was a ten days' journey from the town of Kalfa, where Abdallah, surnamed the Great, did live. After resting for ten nights on the way, Abdallah, surnamed the Great, reached the gates of the city of Osra, and- aske4he hospitality of his cousin, who had a house within the walls of the town, Then, after having shaken off the dust of -thejourney from his feet, he bathed his limbs, and the bondsmen of his cousin anointed his body. But as the sun was going down in the west, Abdal- lah, surnamed the Great, sallied forth from the house of his cousin and went even to the steps of the great mosque to watch for the coming of the three beggars, stationing himself in a place where, though he could see the proceedings of the beggars, they did not observe him. It was but a short time that Abdallah was waiting, when the three beggars    CHaERRY B LOSSOM.       253 came to the footsteps of the great mosque and divided their earmings into three equal parts, each one taking his proper share. They then embraced each other, as was their custom, and as it had been told even to Adallah, surnamed the Great, and then they went each to his home. The evening of the following day, Abdallah again saw the three beggars divide what they had received; but on the next evening, which was the close of the sixth day. of the week, only Dimitri, the Nazarene, and Isaac bar Reuben, the Hebrew, came to the footsteps of the great mosque, their place of meeting. Still they made three equal shares of what they had received, ancd after each of the two had taken one share for himself, they carried the last share to the house of Mahomet ben Habat, the follower of the Prophet. Again, on the next evening, Abdallah, surnamed the Great, saw but two of the three beggars, namely, Dimitri and M[homet, while the Hebrew beggar was not with them. As on the preceding evening, the two again made three parts of all what they had received during the day, one part for each of the two, and the remaining one they carried to the house of Isaac bar Reuben, the Hebrew, who was absent. The evening after this, it happened a       254:    OH ERRY BLOSSOM.       .   . that Abdallah again saw but two of the beggars, and that Dinitri, the Nazarene, was not with them, but that his brothers in misfortune carried an equal - share of what they had received to his house. "What means this?" asked Abdallah, surnamed the Great, of his host, after he had told him all that he had seen. "Know, then, O wise Abdallah," replied the host, after Abdallah, surnamed the Great, had ended his speech, and after the attendants had given unto Abdallah, his guests, and unto himself, chibouks filled with rose-scented tobacco, and drink made from the fragrant berry of Mocha, "know, then, O most wise and illustrious stranger, who art the ornament and delight of Allah, these tjthree. men thou hast seen with thine eyes, asking charity of those they meet in the streets, have lived in this city of Osra for many years. One of their number is a Nazarene, and his name is Dimitri; the second is Isaac bar Reuben, a poor Hebrew, and the remaining one is a true follower of the Prophet, and he is called Mahomet. As thou hast even ecen by the light of thy countenance, O most wise and illustrious stranger, these three men are made miserable through wounds and sickness, and subsist   OHE R  Y BLOSSOM.       255 on what they receive by the charity of others. Mahomet and Dimitri were soldiers in their younger days, and each more than once has saved the other's life. The Hebrew beggar, however, was once a rich man in Osra, and it was he who ran- somed Mahomet and Dimitri out of captivity. At last, evil, days came into the house of the Hebrew. He lost his gold and his silver, his camels and his horses, his jewels and his lands, till now, forsooth, he has become a beggar. Being thus equally des-. titute, they divide their earnings among each other, though each one rests on the day he deems most holy." Thus spoke the host of the most wise and illus- trious Abdallah, surnamed the Great, who had come to the town of Osra, to see the three beggars, and he spoke no more, for is it not fools who speak when they have nothing to say? Presently Abdal- lah and his host arose, and after saying their prayers at the approach of night, with their heads turned toward the holy city of Mecca, they went to rest. On the next morning, Abdallah, surnamed the Great, rose with the sun, and after bathing his body and anointing his hair, he went to the great mosque, on whose minarets the imaum was standing, and   256    CHEURY BLOSSOM. called-the faithful to their prayers, as prescribed in the Koran. It was not long ere Abdallah saw Mahomet, the tallest of the three beggars, ap- proach. Then, Abdallah, surnamed the Great, was  moved by Allah to let a purse of gold fall to the ground, in order to test the honesty of the beggars. "Now, I will conceal my person," said Abdallah to himself, "and see whether Mahomet will divide this treasure with the others." As the evening hour had come, Abdallah saw the beggars from where he was hid, come up to the footsteps, of the great mosque, and Mahomet ben Habat, who had found the gold, thus spole to his companions: ' My friends, Allah be praised! This morning, after I had said my prayers, I found this bag of gold. Let us divide it like the rest, for Allah has given it to us." "Nay, good Mahomet," said Dimitri, "not a piastre will I touch of it; thou hast found it, and it  is thine alone. Thy hairs are grey and few, and thy strength is failiwg. Get thee to some place where the people will not know that thou hast been  a beggar, and enjoy the rest of thy life in com- fort." "Woe be to me," exclaimed Mahomet, "if I do ,       - es, E]   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        257 so  Shall I leave you here in, misery? Never! May Allah strike me with blindness ere I do so dastardly an act!" "Well said, Mahomet!!" replied the Hebrew, "but I am as unwilling as Dimitri to take a piastre of this gold. Who knows but that it may belong to some traveller who may be arrested in his jour- ney by this mishap; let us take it to the Kadi, for he is a wise prince, and may perhaps be able to find out the man to whom it belongs, and thus we shall do what is right in the eyes of heaven." Thus spoke Isaac bar Reuben, thjIebrew, and his companions lifted up their eyes 'd exclaimed: "Blessed be thou and thy posteaty of the Al- mighty, for teaching us the ways of honesty I Let us go and seek the Kadi."       Then Abdallah, surnamed the Great, cold no longer contain himself; for coming forth from where he had been concealed, he spoke as follows: "My friends, the bag of gold Mahomet has found did belong to me; I let it fall when coming from the mosque this morning, as soon as I saw Maho-. met, to convince myself whether you would be as true to each other in the hour of prosperity as in the day of misfortune. Most nobly have you over- l -       . .   258    OHE  RY BLOSSOM. come the temptation, and more than this, you have shown how well you have mastered the golden rule of life: ' Love thy neighbor as thyself!"' Thus spoke Abdallah, surnamed the Great. Then he took the three beggars to the house of his host, where he gave them the presents he had brought with him from Kalfa, besides the bag of gold they had found, so that they were no more re- quired to ask for charity in the streets. And Abdallah, surnamed the Great, left for his home, convinced that even the poorest beggars may be good and virtuous. ,o         j      f -CHAPTER XXXIV. "AccoRDInG to your story," said Dr. Lee, after Edelstein had finished, "you place brotherly love, or, I should say, the love of man for each other, as above all other necessities to the existence of society." "Undoubtedly, dear doctor," was the reply; "though I rather think that this love we entertain for each other is innate in our pature. It is born with us, lives with us, and dies with us. Take the most selfish man and you will find traces within his heart of this feeling. The most misanthropic men, who are apparently devoid of it, you will find possess this feeling to an unusually large extent, and their misanthropy has been generally caused by deceptions and wrongs suffered by them, on account of their trfiting too freely, and loving too deeply others in whom this feeling of brotherly love is not as largely developed as in themselves. As a natural consequence, when thus betrayed and deceived; 259   260    O E RY BLOSSOM. they have gone from one extreme to the other, from unbounded love to unbounded hatred of their fellow- men. But even this hatred is neither natural nor of great duration. You may say it is a cloak, be- neath whose folds this love is hid; or, even better, you may compare misanthropy to a circle of ice imprisoning brotherly love. The icewill melt when coming in contact with heat, and our love for our fellow-men will be purer, holier and more intense. Many a tender heart, whose hopes were disappointed in early life, has buried itself within the sombre convent walls, where for a time it would be content by shunning the outer world and shrinking back even from the gaze of friends and kindred. But a few years generally are sufficient to banish the gloomy recollections of the- past, and when such men or women again by chance come in contact with the outer world, the former love for their fellow beings revives and grows as strong as ever it has been." "Then you assume, Mr. Edelstein," said Cora, that the love of mans for man is universal?" "You have stated my opinion correctly, Miss Lee," answered Max, "and the best proof of its being so, you may find in the fact that all creeds   CHERRY   BLOSSOM.      261 teach and enjoin the observance of this sublime truth. It is, as I before remarked, one of the prin- ciples instilled in our breast by nature. Man, I be- lieve, has no desire; in his primitive condition, to make war upon his fellow-man. The wild son of the Arabian desert sees in the stranger, who comes to his tent-door, weary and travel-stained, a brother, and deems it his sacred duty to offer him food, drink and lodging. But the requirements and con- ventionalities of society have too often corrupted and almost obliterated this redeeming quality in man by false passion and groundless prejudice. Yet I doubt whether they can ever wholly destroy it."' "But, friend Edelstein," said Dr. Lee, "how do you account for religions intolerance in a creed which inculcates the duty of brotherly, love '" "Intolerance," Edelstein replied, " though it may seem to be totally at variance with the feelings we ought to entertain toward our neighbors, is really but a mistaken duty in endeavoring to assist our neighbors in their search after religious truth. You are aware, dear doctor, how the sincere followers of each creed argue that their particular belief is the only true one. They think it their mission to   262    cHERRY BLOSSOM. make converts of all they can reach, aind in former times the fire and sword were deemed fit instru- ments'to help in these missionary labors. It was deemed better and a pleasing work in the eyes of God to extirpate all who would not be willing to declare themselves co verted. But, thank God, we live in a better day. Men have learned to think  more-for themselves. The words of a priest or of a presbyter do not make or unmake opinions. It is a redeeming feature of this age that men have begun to understand that God has endowed them all with sufficient reason to judge between right and wrong, and that all men are equal before God. But enough of this to-night. It is late, and I will not detain you longer."  "Oh, I could listen to you for hours, Mr. Edel-, stein!" said Cora. "Thank you for the' compliment, Miss Lee," re- plied Max, as the brother and sister took their leave.  tt- -         ..-   CIIAPTER  XXXV. Tim cathedral clock of Atmenberg was marking twelve, and above it in the old church tower the bell-ringer was sounding the chimes of noon-the key-note-of temporary liberty to many a hard- worked mechanic. Work-benches and offices be- came deserted, merchants and shop-keepers retired to cozy back rooms, to attend to their dinners, while their clerks attended to their customers; portly burghers left their wine cups-empty of course-on the tavern table, to wade through the February snow to the smoking-hot .soups awaiting their arrival at home, -while their journeymen were already devouring, with appetite sharpened by the morning's labor, the fare offered at the board of the low-priced eating-house. On the day and hour mentioned, Margaret Edel- stein was lying on her death-bed, ready for the last journey. The grim destroyer's hand was already 268   264    O HE RRY. hBLOSS OM. on her. ENone buther husband, and Dr. Lee and his sister, were present during her last moments, and with grateful eyes the dying woman returned the- mournful interest they manifested. "Max," said she at length, and apparently with difficulty, "we must part. Dear Max, God's will be done. Think of me hereafter. Good bye," and she sank back exhausted. A few moments later the last breath gasped from her mouth, and she was at rest. No words were needed to tell the husband or his two friends that another life's struggle was over, nor could words express, on the instant, the feelings of the mourners. Their faces sufficiently showed what the lips could not tell. Poor Max, with all his philosophy, sank down into a chair and covered his eyes with his hands; the doctor's countenance was grave and subdued, while his sister in vain tried to stem two rebellious currents of tears with her handkerchief. Ere the first impression of this desolating sense of the mourners has vanished, two loud raps at the door break the silence, and ere Dr. Lee has time to open the door, it is swung open to let ini two men, clothed in dark green dress- coats with swords at their sides, and cocked hats on their heads.   / CHERR Y BLOSSOM.        265 "The police!" ejaculated Max; he could say no more. Sure enough the two men were police officers, a class more cordially hated on the continent of Europe than in any other part of the world. The two officers do not seem to. are for aught in the room except Max, and in a moment they are near him, with their hands on his shoulders. "In the name of the duke, we arrest you," says ope. "You must come with us; get ready," says the other. "What is it for?" asks Dr. Lee, whose naturally calm blood begins to grow warm and excited. "More than we can say, Herr Doctor," answers one of the officers. "It is a shameful outrage to arrest a man at such a time," continues Dr. Lee, pointing to the bed. The police agents, for the first time, became aware 1 that death had preceded them, and spared a dying wife to witness the arrest of her husband. Even their eyes forget their boldness, and their speech becomes more timid as they plead their orders  and express themselves sorry to have this task to do. 12   266    O ERBY BLOSSOM. "True enough," says Dr. Lee, "you could not help it. But who ordered /this man's arrest?" "Her von Shurke, the police director." "And where is he?"  "At the Schloss, we presume." "I will go this moment and see him. I suppose you can stay here till I come back. He (pointing to Edelstein), will not escape." "Impossible, Herr Doctor. Our orders are to  bring Herr Edelstein without delay to the city prison." "Oh, please let him stay!" pleads Cora. "How can they?" exclaims the doctor in Eng- lish. "They are only the tools-the miserable tools of despotism 1" But the words are understood by one of the police officers. His face grows scarlet with shame and irritation, as he answers: "Herr Doctor, that speech would cost you dear, were I to report it." "'Well, I was wrong in saying so," replied Dr. Lee, "and have to beg your pardon. I did not think you understood our language." "You had better go and see the duke," continues the officer, "before he sets off for Langenweil."   OHERRY BLOSSOM.        267 "Thank you; I will do so without delay. Give Herr Edelstein a good room. I will be back as soon as possible ;" and Dr. Lee, after saying this, sets off for the Schloss, while the police officers take the unhappy Edelstein to prison, leaving Cora alone in the room with the dead Margaret. With all his haste, Dr. Lee arrived at the Schloss too late. The duke had already left with a gay sleighing party for his pretty chateau of Langen- weil, and was not expected to return till the next day. After a momenit's deliberation, the physician writes a note to Cora, charging her with the need- ful preparations for Margaret's funeral, and then hiring a conveyance, hurries off at a rattling pace for Langenweil. It is night already, ere he reaches his destination, and his poor friend has been for many hours pacing the narrow prison chamber, wondering at the delay; but the night has to pass away and the sun is already high, ere the prison door opens, and Max Edelstein is again told that he is free once more-free, thanks to the exertions of Dr. Lee. The latter, immediately on his arrival at Langenwiel, had procured an audience with the duke, and briefly told the circumstances of Edelstein's arrest. Iierrvon Schurke, the police   268   COHE  BY BLOSSOM. director, who had accompanied the duke to Lan- genweil, was sent for. "What is Max Edelstein' arrested for " the duke asks, as the police director enters the room. "He is suspected as a 'revolutionnaire.'" "On what proof?" "He has been overheard in making improper re- marks against your highness.' Against me?" "Yes, your highness.' "And what were these remarks, Herr von Schurke?" "'He has said," replied the director, having re- course to a note-book, "that your highness was too young and inexperienced to be intrusted with the management of public affairs." iIs that all?" "Yes, your highness.' "And you have a man taken away for such a silly thing from his wife's death-bed, and cast into prison?" "An example was needed, your highness. The government cannot allow itself to 'be ridiculed in that manner." JMX   OHERR Y BOSSS M.       269 'In what manner?" asked the duke, without waiting for a reply. "Herr von Schurke, you are a fool. Give Dr. Lee an order for Edelstein's immediate release, and let me not hear of another such arrest. I am obliged to you, -doctor, for bringing this case to my notice, and I charge you to tell Herr Edelstein that his arrest has not my sanction. When I return I wish to see him. Bring the poor man to me the next time you visit the Schloss. I suppose you wish to return at once." "Yes, your highness," replied Dr. Lee. "Then take Bertram," pointing to ,one of his attendants, "with you. He will get you fresh horses, as yours will need rest. Good night!" With a light heart, Dr. Lee, attended by the duke's servant, returned to the city, and straight- way drove to the prison, where Edelstein had passed a night of horrors. The duke's words had their full weight on Max. "God bless him," the poor man said, "for what he has done. But I can assure you, doctor, that I never thought of speaking a word against the duke. It was a wrong accusation, though I would not   270    C HERR Y BLOSSOM. have minded the arrest so much had it been at any other time." "You may depend on it, Max, that the duke will make you ample reparation." "Oh, I do not care for it; why should I? Am I not a broken reed I have lost my best friend, my poor Margaret. To-morrow even her dead body will be given over to the worms, and I shall be once more alone in the world." "Max," said the doctor, "while I live you shall always have a friend. Come and live with me." "Thank you, my friend," replied Edelstein, "I can never forget what you and your sister have done, but I cannot accept of your offer. I must leave this place, at least for a time. While I stay here I shall always think of the bitter past. A few years' exile is the only relief I know of." "Poor Max!" said the doctor to himself, as they silently bent their steps homeward, where Cora im- patiently expected them.   CHAPTER XXXVI. ERE the sun on the following day was much above the horizon, Margaret Edelstein's remains were conveyed to the grave. Besides the husband, and Dr. Lee and his sister, few others followed the body to its resting-place. As the procession, how- ever, arrived at the grave, two old men joined the mourners. Max Edelstein had at first been too ab- sorbed in his thoughts to notice their approach, but on one of the new comers calling his name, he was suddenly aroused, and turning round, he exclaimed: "My father! is it you?" "Yes, Max," was the response of Adam Edel- stein, "I am come to-day to ask you, my son, to for- give your father." "I have nothing to forgive, dear father." "Then let the past be buried in this grave, deart Max," said the father, embracing his son. "Would that this poor body had yet soul and speech to be a blessing to us both."   272    CHERRY BLOSS O M. "She blesses you from above, Father Edelstein," said Professor Ehrenbach, who had come with Edel- stein's father, and now grasped Max's hand in token of sympathy. "She is in heaven, I trust, with her God." "Amen!" said Adam Edelstein, as he reverently removed his hat. All others followed his example, while Professor Ehrenbach stepped forth to the front of the grave, and prayed: "Oh, God of the Universe, thou who givest and takest away the life of thy creatures, thou who seest and knowest all, we render to thee all praise for thy goodness. While we stand on this ground of thy creation, we are by contemplation alone im- pressed with thy power and thy glory. Around us molder the remains of men who had the joys and sorrows of life in their time. Like those, our prede- cessors, this earth will, in time, receive our bodies; forwe know that man is mortalnd that he is born to die in this world to be born anew in a happier and better sphere. O God, thou Lord of mercy, receive our words as the best offering we can give. Call us to thee as thou hast called her whose body is to be covered with the green turf. Give peace and consolation to him who, next to thee, has deemed /,                /t   HER RY B LO S u.       A r' her his best friend, that le may hpnor and love thee for thy mercy. Send him light from above to guide him on his way to the grave, and may his end be blessed with the consciousness of having lived on this earth to do thy bidding to the best of his ability. Amen!" "Amen!" said his hearers; and down to its earthy bed went the dead woman's body. The spades soon made it a coverlet, and the now fast- falling snow soon began to hide the fresh mound which had arisen in the cemetery. For a few min- utes the living appear to be loath to leave the dead. Max stands near a weeping willow, whose branches will in summer shade his Margaret's grave, leaning his right hand on the trunk, while the left is grasp- ing his father's right. The old man, hale and hearty though he doubtless is, looks greatly affected and moved, and his old eyes are not ashamed of the tear of tribute which rolls down the weather-beaten face. The tall figure of Adam Edelstein contrasts strangely with the small and bent stature of Profes- sor Ehrenbach. Yet the little man has a face lighted up by two great eyes, expressive of strong will and generous impulses. A physiognomist would say that their possessor will never be afraid 12*   274    OHERRY BLOSSOM. to do what he deems right and proper. At present the professor is speaking to Miss Cora Lee, whose tears have not yet ceased to flow for the loss of her humble friend. The professor evidently is struck no less with Miss Lee's appearance than her ad- dress, and though a man of truth, cannot omit a word or two of praise and flattery, compliments he is rarely in the habit of bestowing on any one. Dr. Lee is standing some little distance from the group, taking an eye picture of the scene and occasionally answering questions his sister or Professor Ehren- bach propound to him. But at last he looks at his watch and intimates to Corathe necessity of leaving. Old Adam Edelstein, turning around, lays his hand on his son's shoulder, as if leaning for support. "Come, Max, let us go," he says, and they reenter the carriage to go back into town. Professor Ehren- bach had it so arranged that Max and his father were left to themselves, while he with Miss Lee and the doctor occupied another carriage, and thus the necessary explanations could be made to the parties interested without any embarrassment. The profes- sor's story did not occupy much time. "Humph!" he said, when they were fairly seated, "have I not done well, Miss Lee a?   OHERRY BLOSSOM.       275 "Done what well?" asked Cora. "Why, don't you see I have reconciled old Edel- stein to his son a Could have done it long ago if I had only known it." "How did you do it, professor?" asked the doctor. "Well, I don't mind telling you, but mind you it is a secret. Neither of you must say a word about it, or even hint that you. know anything of it." "Of course we shall not," said the doctor. "Well, then, you recollect when you went to the duke's chateau, at Langenweil, I heard of all the particulars from the jailer, and considering that you, doctor, had influence enough with the duke to procure Max's release, I deemed it my duty to do what I could to help the unfortunate man, and so I came post down to Sandthal to effect a reconcilia- tion between Max and his father. I knew t I was a great deal to blame for the great and un es- sary severity of the Academic court, and I tr my best to atone for it." "Andi so old a man as you, professor," said Dr. Lee, "exposed yourself to the danger of a mid-win- ter's journey 2" "But, my dear doctor," said the professor, "there   276     IIERRY BLOSSOM. was no help for it, and no great risk, either. Do you blame me, Miss Lee?" "Professor Ehrenbach, you deserve both praise and gratitude. A man who is willing to acknow- ledge an error and endeavor to repair injuries at personal sacrifice, must be a noble man, indeed." "Thank you for the compliment, Miss Le9," an- swered the professor, "however little I may de- serve it. But I really take an interest in Max Edelstein as well as in his father. You know the old man was with me both at the gymnasium and the university, and thus it came that I went down to Sandthal. I had a rather long conversation with old Adam, but I have gained my point. He has determined to become reconciled to his son, and he  will tell you so himself, and more, too, when we shall get back to the house." "I am really glad to hear such good news," said Dr. Lee; "for it is no slight interest which both- my sister as well as myself feel in anything con- cerning Max Edelstein. We owe him a debt of gratitude for kindness in former years, which can never be repaid." "Yes, I recollect Max took greatly toward you when you first came to Armenberg."   HERRY BLO 1    O U .   a6 "And I assure you he has ever continued to be one of our warmest friends. We will never for- get him."  "That is right,"' said'Professor Ehrenbach; but I hope that Max will now be able to make up for lost time, and devote his really great talents to something better than teaching Latin ad Greek. You, doctor, ought to spur him up a little." "I will hereafter, but I think that at present he sadly requires rest and change of residence. He ought to go to Sandthal with his father for a few months." "A most capital idea, doctor, which I shall not fail to impart to my old friend. His house must be lonesome enough at present, with none but the old housekeeper and a couple of servants to keep him company. Old bachelor though I am, I could not stand it to live in that way. I always want to mingle among the people. But you see old Adam never used to be very communicative, and I was about the only boy he used to associate with at the gymnasium. All the other scholars called him the walking ghost. But he never minded their ridi- cule, and only attended to his lessons. It was no wonder that he was always at the head of the f               '   *   ' .   278    C ERRY BLOSSOM. class. Still there is a fire of ambition burning in old Adam's breast. It has been burning ever since I first knew him, but he has always been disap- pointed. Like Casar, he would rather be the first in a village than the second man in Rome. He could have had preferment long ago, but he will not have it on the terms promotions now-a-days are meted out. However, here we are at your house, at last," concluded the professor. "I shall have to go at present, but will call again in the afternoon, if Miss Lee permits me to do so." "Certainly, professor," said Cora; " to shall be happy to see you at any time." "I shall keep you at your word, young lady," were Professor Ehrenbach's last words, as he took his leave.   CHAPTER XXX VILL "OH, Henry," said Cora, when they were alone, C how glad I am that Max has become reconciled to his father I do not feel half as sorry as I did this morning before the funeral. I am sure you are also glad of it." "Certainly, my dear, though I dare say we shall miss Max greatly of an evening, he and his sweet, patient Margaret used to be so entertaining."  "The poor thin! she is in heaven." "I trust so, dear Cora, for if ever woman deserved a better world, Margaret deserved it." "You only speak the truth, dear Henry, and I know that poor Max will feel her loss deeply. But here he comes with his father." Arm in arm, the father and son were coming up the street, much to the astonishment of several neighbors, who were on the alert to learn all the news they could regarding the reconciliation be- tween Max and his father-not that they were in dw   21279   280    CHeERY BLOSSOM. any way interested, but because it happens all the world over that morbid curiosity seeks to pry into 'half-accessible corners, or to look through the smallest possible cracks in order to learn or hear what, in all probability, does not in any way con- tribute to the hearer's benefit or profit. On this occasion, these seekers after useless information were greatly disappointed. Adam Edelstein and his son retired with the Lees to the doctor's apartments, where, thanks to Cora's forethought, some necessary refreshments were waiting for them. After a slight repast, Max, taking the doctor's hand in his own, said: "God bless you, Dr. Lee, and your sister, for what you have done for me! Words at present must be the only thanks I can give." "Never mind, Max," said the doctor. "We will take your words for the deed, for the present. Besides, we owe you more than we can ever repay for your kindness. But I must say," he continued, "that I am glad to see you reconciled with your father." "It is a blessing I did not expect God would send me," said Max. "Pardon me, however, for not having formally introduced you. Father," and b   OHERBRY BLOSSOM.       281 he turned to the old man, who was engaged in con- versation with his hostess, "this is Dr. Lee, my American friend. I see you have already made Miss Lee's acquaintance." "Oh, I. am easily to be acquainted with," said the young lady. "Your father is just telling me of Sand- thal and its scenery. It must be a beautiful place." "It is, Miss Lee." "I should like very much to go there. Henry, cannot you take me down there once?" "If you will go with us, Miss Lee," said Adam Edelstein, "we should be proud of the honor. I am sure your brother will have no possible objec- tion to intrust you to my care. Will you let her go with us, Dr. Lee?"  "Certainly, Father Edelstein. Cora ought to have a holiday once, and a journey to San tl would do no harm.". "But, Henry," said Cora, "how will you be able to get along alone?"  "Oh, I will manage the best way I know how. All old bachelors know how to do it, and Ipresume I will have to learn, sooner or later." "But the Herr Doctor does' not mean to die an old bachelor?" asked the old maq.   282    OHERRY BLOSSOM. "Why not? My patients and my books take up all my time, and prevent my falling in love. Be- sides, I am not rich enough to marry." "Fie, doctor, that is the last thought which should enter your mind when you think of matrimony. A crust of bread divided with your wife, is a better meal than the most sumptuous repast eaten alone. My Sara and myself had hardly more than would stock two small rooms, and yet we lived happy and contented. And here is Max, who has just lost his pooi Margaret-he felt himself richer by her side than many a Croesus." "I did that, father," said Max; "her loss can never be replaced." "When do you propose to return to Sandthal, Herr Edelstein?" asked Dr. Lee. "We will start day after to-morrow, if Miss Lee can get ready by that time." "Certainly, I can," said Cora. "But, Harry, can you not come with us?" "Not very well, at present, my deari but I shall ride over occasionally and see you as soon as I shall have less business on hand." "You are a good American, I see," said the old ma'.   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        283 "Why, Herr Edelstein?" "Because you are sure to think of business. Na- poleon called the English a nation of shop-keepers, we should call you Americans a nation of business men." "You are right enough. We Americans, I think, devote too much time to business and not epough to recreation. It is a national characteristic and well expressed in the saying we have, of 'business before pleasure." "I cannot say that this is a favorable feature in your countrymen. You ought to take an example in that matter from us Germans, who think that 'work without play won't pay.' But, doctor, you must really come to see us at Sandthal, even if you should lose a day or two by it. The place is very well worth seeing, and the scenery in the neighbor- hood is quite picturesque." "Oh, that will please my sister more than my- self, though I am not barbarian enough not to have an eye for the beatiful. You may rest assured on my coming to Sandthal some of these days, Father Edelstein, and in the meantime Cora will require all your services as chaperone."   CHAPTER XXX V1. As the journey from Armenberg to Sandthal af- fords but little of interest to those who make it, and none at all to the readers of this story, the author deems it sufficient to state that Max Edelstein quit- ted Armenberg on the third day after the events mentioned in \the preceding chpter; in company with his father and Miss Lee. The trio arrived safely at Sandthal, where we must fain leave them and hurry back to Armenberg, in order to partici- pate in the gloriouprivilege of witnessing a revo- lution, of which there will be more anon in the next chapter. 284 .    CHAPTER XXXIX. YES, there was a revolution in Armenberg. Now, a revolution in Armenberg was certainly an eight-day wonder. The old town chronicle never made mention of such an event having happened during the preceding eighteen centuries. A revo- lution in Armenberg, therefore, was certainly something never heard of before. Buit now, at last, Armenberg, heretofore the most loyal town in the universe, whose attachment to the Lowenzollern house had never been doubted before, had a revo- lution. Of course the staid, quiet, wine-loving, beer-drinking burghers had nothing to do with the making of this revolution. But there were enough young men, and even boys, who became convinced. that Armenberg needed reforms. The University students, especially, suddenly became painfully aware of this great lack of reforms, and they, as well as others, resolved to have them. The arrest of Max Edelstein, on suspicion, merely by order of 285   286     HERRY BLOSSOM.. the police director, Herr von Schurke, was a spark to raise the flames. Many, even, of the quiet citi. zens, expressed their disapprobation of such hasty proceedings, but in the academic halls and in the taverns, the almost forgotten name of Max Edel. stein was on every lip as that of a martyr of liberty. So quietly had Max's release been ma- naged, that but few knew that he was again at liberty, and when, on the evening that Max quitted Armenberg, the students, at their rendezvous out- side of the town, resolved to march to the prison and demand the instant release of the pedagogue, the enthusiasm of the populace knew no bounds. The authorities were panic-struck when they heard from a gendarme, who had hurried to the City Hall, that the students were coming to upset the ' government, and ere they had recovered from their fright they could hear in the distance the war- notes of the Marseillaise, the steady tramp of the students, and the shouts ofthe rabble. There sat the mayor of the town and his council, and in came the ministers of the duke to seek advice and even safety, from the menaces of the excited masses without. The' handful of soldiers in the town were of no avail against such an overwhelm- ,  '   CHERRY BLOSSOM.       287 ing mass, and could, besides, not be depended on. The duke was yet at Langenweil, but was expected back every moment. There seemed to be nothing but irresolution in the council chamber, while from without there came the din of the noisy-populace. "Down with the government!" "Let us have a republic!" "We want freedom!" and thousands of similar cries were heard, while stones began to fly, and the old window panes were soon riddled by these missiles. At last there came a cry- "Where is Schurke? Let us hang him!" It was heard all over the council chamber, and the police director, who had come with the duke's minister, turned pale with fear and rage. "Save yourself, quick!" said the mayor to him, as the tramp of hundreds mounting the staircase was heard, and Herr von Schurke was not slow in availing himself of the advice. Pulling his hat close down, he vanished through a side door, ere the rabble in quest of him burst in the opposite doors, with the cry of "where is Schurke?" on their lips. "Where is Schurke ." asked their self-constituted leader, whom, many a councilman knew but a few hours ago as a seller of beef and mutton.   288    OHnnRrY BLOSSOM. How do we know '? asked the mayor, gather- ing a little courage. "Look for him at the police office." "Let us look for him!" shouted the rabble, and almost as quickly as the council chamber had been filled, it became deserted, save by the half-fiight- ened town councillors and the duke's ministers. But the mad populace, like a mountain torrent swelled by the heavy spring rains, moved on with marvellous celerity to the police office, eager for their prey, the offending director. Arrived at the gate of the building, they saw a carriage about to start off, and in it there was what appeared to them to be their victim and his daughter. The coach- man was starting the horses when the rabble hove  in sight, and all at once the cry was raised- "Here he is!" A neighboring brick pile furnished arms of ag- gression, and the missiles flew thickly around the carriage and its devoted occupants. Of the shots that struck the carriage, but one did its work sure enough, for a cry of pain from the lady told the -naddened crowd that their supposed victim had Iallen. Hundreds at once surrounded the carriage, but a bugle's notes, heard at a distance, quickly "               iE   CHERRY B-LOS SOM.      289 engrossed the crowd's attention. The notes soon became more distinct, and all at once it flashed over the minds of the revolutionists that the sol- diers were coming. Panic struck, they all fled, and when, five minutes later, the Duke of Seelen- hausen, at the head of a squadron of cavalry, ar- rived in front of the police office, he saw nothing but the hapless vehicle and its occupants. On ap- proaching the carriage door, he found the gentle- manl lying unconscious from a wound received, while his companion was busying herself in at- tempting to stop the blood. The approach of the duke made her look .up from her work, revealing to the ruler of Seelenhausen a face and expression not unworthy of an angel's picture. "Will you help ma?" she asked, in English, while her tears began to flow. "Certainly, with pleasure;" said the duke, in the same language, and dismounting, he entered the carriage, and raising the still unconscious man, he ordered three of the soldiers to carry him in- side the police building. A few questions sufficed to explain to the duke that the gentleman and lady were American travellers; that they had Stopped in front of the police office to have their    290    CHERRY BLOSSOM. passports put in order, and that, at the time they were ready to start, the rabble had come upon them, and that one of the stones had wounded the lady's companion. The duke gave orders to have the injured man removed to a neighboring hotel, while he himself again mounted his horse, and at the head of his escort, pursued those of his loving subjects who had but a few minutes ago thirsted for the blood of his police director. The pursuit was soon over, the rebellion quelled, and Armenberg was once more at peace. -Not so its ruler. The Duke of Seelenhausen felt ill at ease; but, most strange, it was not on account of the suppressed revolution, but/solely because a fair face he had seen, haunted him ever since he had met the American travellers in the street. In the excitement of the moment, he had forgotten to ask even the names of the parties he had assisted, but as soon as he arrived at the palace he dispatched his aid-de-camp ostensibly to ask after the wounded traveller, but in reality to find out all particulars calculated to satisfy an ill-concealed curiosity. The aid-de-camp soon returned, but the informa- tion he had been able to gather was extremel- meagre, since his linguistic accomplishments were   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        291 not quite as great as the duke's, and the travellers were unable to speak anything but English. He had, however, learned that the wounded man's name was John Blossom, and that the young lady in his company was his niece. "We will have to wait for Dr. Lee," said the duke, when the aid-de-camp had finished his report. "He can attend the gentleman profession- ally, and will be able to give us all the news." "Shall I send for him, your highness?" asked the aid-de-camp. "Yes, by all means; tell him to come forth- with."   CHAPTER XL. THE duke awaited Dr. Lee's arrival with con- siderable impatience, for the time was long ere the prince's messengers could find the young physician. They had inquired for him everywhere in town, at his residence as well as at other places, till some one informed them that the doctor had been called to attend a sick traveller at the H6tel d'Angleterre. The messengers-and they were no common Mer- curies, since the first had a commission as captain of dragoons, and the other was a gentleman of the bed-chamber of the duke-repaired at once to the hotel. On making their business known to the host, they were shown upstairs into the rooms occu- pied by the travellers, and beheld, on opening the door-for their knocking had been unheeded-the doctor embracing a young lady! The effect was electric. The young lady quickly disengaged herself, the doctor looked confused, the messengers smiled, and the. host did not know 292   OHERRY BLOSSOM.        293 what to say or to do. Dr. Lee was the first to re- cover himself, and making a salutation to the intruders, took again hold of the young lady's hand and said: "My cousin, Miss Blossom, gentlemen." This short eixplanation at once removed any latent suspicion, aid the doctor was now informed of the duke's eomrjand. "I will accompany you to the castle," said the doctor. "My uncle, Mr. Blossom, is now asleep and happily out of danger. I did not know myself who my patient was, till my cousin recognized me." "The duke was just in time to save your uncle's life," said the captain of dragoons. "So I have heard. But how about the rebel- lion; is it all over?" "Of course it is; our brave fellows soon put the canaille to flight." "Have there been many killed?" "No, I believe not. There was no blood spilt, if we except your relative. He was wounded acci- dentally." "And without provocation?" asked the doctor. "The  rabble mistook him for the police director," replied the captain.   294    cHERP Y BLOSSOM. (Well, I anm glad to hear it is no worse. But let us go to the duke. Good bye, Cherry," added he to his cousin. "When will you be back, dear Henry?" she asked. "As soon as possible." "And if Uncle John wakes, shall I tell him about you?" "Certainly," said the doctor, and left with the duke's messengers for the palace. The duke received Dr. Lee in his private cabinet, and listened not without interest to the physician's story regarding John Blossom and his niece, but did withhold from his medical adviser the feelings of admiration, if not of love, which the sight of Cherry had inspired him with. Perhaps the duke did not deem it fit to trust a cousin, and perhaps a rival, with the secret; or more likely the innate voice of conscience did not dare to whisper in words what can often not be concealed by our actions. The duke then simply expressed his hope to Dr. Lee that his relative might soon recover, and that it would give him great pleasure to entertain Mr. Blossom and his niece at his table, ere they should resume their journey.   CHE RY BLOSSOM.        295 "I shall convey to my relatives your message, your highness," said the doctor, as he took his leave. "I do not think, however, that Uncle Blossom will leave us very soon. I have a plan to send him down to Sandthal, wliere my sister at present is." "Sandthal is a very pretty place," said the duke, "and I occasionally go there myself when I am at Langenweil. If your uncle goes there let me. hear of it." I will, your highness," said the doctor. ^ -   CHAPTER XLI. OF course, it irequires hardly any explanation to tell how John Blossom and his niece came to figure in so conspicuous a manner in the Armenberg revo- lution. They were travellers bound for Italy and the rest of Europe, and had merely looked in on Armenberg, because it lay in their way. John Blossom had not been very intimately acquainted with the Lees. He had heard of them, but as they were only his brother's wife's relatives, and as they had been away from home for some years, he had forgotten all about them, till Cherry told him as he awoke: "Uncle John, Henry Lee lives here." "Henry Lee 2" he asked, rather doubtful. "Why, don't you know Henry, uncle? He is my own cousin." "Certainly.- He was old Timbleton's nephew." "Yes, uncle." And what does he do here?" 296 Begs, * \             v   OHERRY BLOSSOM.        297 "He is a doctor, and is attending you." "You don't say, Cherry, that that tall, good- looking man who dressed my wound is he!" "Indeed I do, uncle." "Well, he is a fine-looking man; but did he not have a sister?" "Yes, uncle, Cora; she is. in the country on a visit."  "When is he coming back, Cherry?" "He promised that he would call this evening. He says that you will have to rest a few days ere you can resume your-journey." "And stay in this murderous town?" "Oh no, uncle; Henry knows of a quiet place not far from here where his sister is. He will tell you more when he comes himself." "Well, that sounds more reasonable. But I would not stay here twenty-four hours if I could help it." "Oh, uncle, Henry says that such a thing has not happened before, since the town was built. It is, he says, generally, a very quiet place, and a good many of the nobility come here to drink the waters. The duke, Henry says, is very much as- tonished that such a thing has happened." 13*   298    CHERRY BLOSSOM. "What, is there a duke here also! Cherry, it' seems to me every town we come to has one!" "Harry says he is a very good one, and he has sent his aid-de-camp to inquire after your health. It was he who came up with the dragoons, and saved us from being stoned to death." "Ah, indeed I I must call on him when I get well, and state my case. Wonder if there is an American consul here. He can take our testimony and send the case home to the State Department at Washington." "Why uncle, you ought to thank the duke for having saved your life?" "But, Cherry, American citizens should be re- spected abroad. This is a case calling for govern- ment intervention."  "Now, Uncle John, be reasonable. The duke could not help your being wounded, and moreover he saved you from being killed. I am sure, when you are well again, the least thing you could do would be to call on him and give him  your thanks." "Was it the duke himself, who came up to our carriage, Cherry " " ",Yes, uncle."    HERRY BLOSSOM.       299 " he looks like a brave young man. I think after all it would be the best to do as you say, to call on him when I get well once more. But you must be tired, my dear. You look wearied, and need rest." "Oh, dear Uncle John, I am not tired at all," said Cherry. "You had better lie down for a few hours, any- how," replied her uncle. "The excitement of the day has been enough for you. Only tell them to / send up Dr. Lee to me when he comes in; I am anxious to see him." With these words Mr. John Blossom sent his niece out of the room, while he endeavored to con- pose himself to sleep. His busy thoughts, however, chased each other through his mind in chaotic con- fusion; sleep was out of the question, and it was with something like relief to Mr. Blossom that at last the door opened, and Dr. Henry Lee entered the room. "Henry Lee," said John Blossom, after he had taken a rapid, yet satisfactory survey of the doctor, "I should have known you among a thousand. You have the old Lee looks about you." "This is rather a strange meeting," said the doc-   300    CHERRY BLOSSOM. tor, " and one entirely unexpected to me. You must have left home rather suddenly?' "Oh, I have been considering a trip to Europe for some time past, but I never made up my mind to it fully, till about a month before we left." "Did you not intend to' stay here and try the baths, they are very celebrated?" "No. We were ori our way to Berlin, when this infernal rebellion cut us short. It came near finish- ing me.". "You escaped wonderfully, and in a week or two, I hope you will be as well as ever again. In the meanwhile you must be quiet and take things coolly." "Yes, I see. But I don't like the idea of being shut up in this hotel. Don't you know of a quiet place out of town, where Cherry andmyself could stay for a month, or so-?" The doctor considered for a few minutes, and at last said--  "Why, Mr. Blossom, as soon as we can move you, you must go down to Sandthal, where my sister Cora is staying at present. It will be a pleasure to both Cora and Cherry to be together again."    CHERRY BLOSSOM.-       301 "You are right, Henry. It is the very thing. Have you a house there yourself?" "Oh no, Mr. Blossom," replied the doctor, "  am too poor yet to buy houses, but I will have it all arranged that you shall have comfortable quarters."   CHAPTER XLII. ABOUT a fornightl later, and about the time when the public journals of Europe had ceased to men- tion the suppression of the late Armenberg rebel- lion, the solitary victim of that outhreak was allowed by his physician to change his abode from Armen- berg to Sandthal. The change of air was as bene- ficial to Miss Cherry Blossom as to her guardian. The dear young lady had been al excellent nurse to her uncle John, and what with trouble about people across the ocean, and attendance in the sick- room, her cheek had paled, and her eyes felt heavy. It was quite a relief to her when she came down to Sandthal with Uncle Blossom and Dr. Lee, had an old-fashioned hug with Cora, and exchanged salu- tations with Max and his father. Twenty-four hours sufficed to make her at home in the Edelstein mansion. Not so John Blossom. He felt of late more irritable than ever, it seemed as if all his old misanthropy ivas coming back to him faster than it, 802   / OHER B   BLOSSOM.     303 went away. But Max Edelstein, in his capacity of host, here stepped in, and done his duty. He seemed to understand fully John Blossom's charac- ter, while looking at his countenance. He seemed to know that the invalid's mind was as pain-stricken as his body, that the wounds of the mind needed remedies as well as those of the flesh, and with this view, he exerted all his conversational powers to make John Blossom forget what must cause him pain to think of. When conversation ceased, Max occasionally produced a volume out of his father's well-selected collection, and thus time did not hang too heavily on John Blossom.  John Blossom was not ungrateful for Max's favors. lie could not find words sufficient to tell Cherry and Cora of the many obligations he was under to the Edelsteins, and asked Dr. Lee, who frequently came down to Sandthal, whether Max or his father would be offended were he, Mr. Blossom, to offer them a substantial present in the shape of money. Dr. Lee advised Mr. Blossom not to do so at present, but'to give Max a sufficient amount to distribute among the poor of the village. Dr. Lee knew Max Edelstein's character too well to imagine that he would receive money for himself, while lie   304    CHERRY BLOSSOM. also was aware that the limited extent of his friend's purse hindered him from exercising his charity to a greater extent. Mr. John Blossom delicately executed the task  of making Max Edelstein his almoner. The ex- pedagogue felt as happy as the recipient of the alms he .distributed, and Cherry, who accompanied him once on one of his charitable expeditions, said to her uncle, on returning, that Mr. Max looked like the Vicar of Wakefield when he came out of the prison, and was received by the shouts of the villagers.  "Ah, the Vicar of Wakefield l" said Max, who desired to give a turn to the conversation, "it is my favorite book. I cannot undertake to say how many times I have read it."  "You are not alone in that position," remarked 'Mr. Blossom, "I have myself read the book ten times ormre, and one of our most eminent states- men* stated that he read the Vicar of Wakefield once every year, and that each time he found renewed pleasure from its perusal." Oliver Goldsmith, certainly, deserves the com- * Thomas H. Benton, in a speech before the U. S. Senate. /    CHERRY BLOSSOM.       305 pliment," said Max. "He is too genial an author not to be a favorite with both old and young; I believe his Vicar of Wakefield, his Traveller, and the Deserted Village, are as well known in Ger- many as they are in England or America. Oliver Goldsmith wrote for all ages and all countries, and his fame will live and die with the world." Dr. Lee's arrival interrupted the conversation, and Max with the ladies shortly afterward left the room, bidding Henry to follow them into the' gar- den. "Your friends here have been very kind to me" said Mr. Blossom, when they were alone, "and I have taken quite a liking to Max." "The feeling is mutual then," replied the doctor, "since Max has been praising you up very highly, and Cherry too, is quite a favorite with both him and his father." "The sly puss has the knack of making friends everywhere. She is a good girl. But Harry, my boy, to speak of other matters, you do not think of living in this out-of-the-way place for evert I am sure you could do better in New York." "Oh,- I have no desire to change. I am in good O .        ,   306    OHERR Y BLOSSOM.*  health, have a good practice, and like the country; I always think a bird in the hand is better than two in't]he bush." "I see you are quite a philosopher, Harry; but you ought to marry and raise up a family." ; I am in no great hurry; besides, I do not feel lonesome with Cora in the house. She is the best of sisters, as well as the best of housekeepers. When she is tarried off, then I think it will be time enough for me to look out for a wife." "Take care that you do not wait too long. You may die an old bachelor." "Why, Uncle Blossonm, you are setting me the example." A bad example it is,"' answered Mr. Blossom, while a sudden spasm convulsed his features. "Do you feel any pain?" asked Dr. Lee. "It's over now, Harry; merely a twinge in my bones. But," continued he, "I am wrong in mono- polizing your company; your sister and Cherry are expecting you now. Come in again about dark." "I will, uncle," said the doctor, as he left the room in quest of the young ladies. ,'       *      .    CHAIPTEI 'XTLTI. DR. LEE found the ladies in the garden, with Max Edelstein; the latter was pruning some fruit trees, while Cherry and Cora were watching the operation, and asking questions in rapid succes. sion. "What, friend' Max; have you turned gar dener?" said the doctor, as he joined the group. "And two promising pupils he has, Cousin Harry," replied Miss Blossom. "Promising what?" "Oh, Harry, stop your-teasing," said his sister. "Don't be too severe, Cora, else I shall put myself under Cherry's protection. You will not desert me, Cherry, for you and I are old allies." "Indeed we are, and you shall now be my trusty squire. Cora, I dare .say, has already engaged her friend Mr. Edelstein to act in that capacity." "I would make but a poor squire for dames," said Max. so;   308     H ERRY BLOSSOM. I ask for no better," replied Cora, in a low tone in German, and Edelstein's eyes repaid the com- pliment with a look of gratitude. "But Max, have you really given up philosophy and turned farmer?" asked the doctor. "C As you see; or rather, I am practising now what I used to preach." '  "And you like the change?" '"I am delighted. Words, dear doctor, cannot express the joy I feel at being once more released from city life, of being enabled to walk over green fields. I am like the prisoner who quits his cell after a long and dreary captivity. I walk as if I were in a trance. The twittering of the songhirds, thecackling of the denizens of the farmyard, the calls of the cattle, sound like music to my ear. Yesterday afternoon I took a ramble into the forest, and after- ward went to the'ivjer bank, where I sat for nearly an hour under the shade of an old oak-tree, and watched the silent waters as they kept floating past down toward the ocean. Such a feeling of happi- ness and inward joy stole over me that I was loath to quit the place. It was not till the evening hour came, and after I had witnessed the sunset that I started up. The shepherds' horns were'sounding in   CHERRY BLOSSOM.         309 all quarters, recalling the cattle. It reminded me of the picture drawn by Gray in his Elegy: "' The curfew tolls the knell of parting day, The lowing herds wind slowly o'er the lea, The ploughman homeward plods his weary way, And leaves the world to darkness and to me.' No one was with me but Snap, the old house- dog, and the poor dumb beast seemed to me at that moment to be possessed of similar sympathies with his master, so happy and so absorbed in me did he look up. Poor Snap, he watches as of old my going and coming. I hardly thought he would have recognized me after my long absence from home. You ought to have seen with what joy lie bounded forward the day I came back." "I am not one of Snap's favorites, however," said Cherry. "I cannot make him follow me, but  he is almost as obedient to Cora as to Mr. Edelstein himself." "Never mind, Cousin Cherry," replied the doc- tor. "We will set Snap down as the counterpart of Shakspeare's* cur." ' The sourest tempereddog that lives." * Two Oentlemen of Verona. Act U., Scene 8.   310     H E I  Y B L S S O M. "Good, Cousin Harry! II see you have not for- gotten Shakspeare yet." "Forget Shakspeare What heresy! No mind alive to the beautiful can ever forget the gentle bard of Avon," said Dr. Lee. "Truly spoken," added Edelstein. "You- may search far and wide to find the like of him." "I was not aware that Shakspeare had such warm admirers in Germany," said Cherry. "We prize him even more, Miss Blossom, than we do our own Schiller and Goethe, and study him more."   CHAPTER XLIV i TrIuGa Mr. Blossom's recovery was but slow, time did not drag heavily along for the invalid, surrounded as he was by tender and affectionate friends, who were untiring in their endeavors to minister to his comfort. Cora Lee, Cherry, and Mother Agatha, the housekeeper, proved them- selves the most tender of nurses, while Father Edelstein himself often visited Mr. Blossom's room; but it-was Max Edelstein especially who neglected no opportunity to render acts of kindness to the invalid traveller and it was; therefore, no marvel that John Blossom should feel grateful. As grati- tude begets friendship, it was but natural that Mr. Blossom would drop the formal "Herr Edelstein" for the more simple and affectionate "friend Max," an appellation certainly relished by the ex-peda- gogue. Besides the unsolicited attentions bestowed by the latter on his guest, Max's conversaton had a great charm for Mr. Blossom, and the invalid ' /   t"   312    OHER  Y BLOSS M. never wearied to listen to the eloquent pleadings of his-entertainer, whatsoever might be the topic. The story of his life, too, which Mr. Blossom had learned through Miss Lee, heightened considerably the interest he felt in his new friend, and he felt a sentiment of pity and admiration to hear of the estrangement and reconciliation between father and son, of the many trials the young man had borne, and the honorable poverty in which he had lived, his ten years of exile in the attic chamber in Ar- menberg, the resistance and fortitude he had shown in days -of need, when a base denial to the world of his convictions might have insured him affluence, protection, and advancement in life. -Then the sad, touching story of the long sickness and death of his wife, powerfully impressed John Blossom with a feeling of friendship and love for Max Edelstein. But a sombre shadow thrust itself for- ward to darken' this feeling. "He is an atheist," said John Blossom to himself. "'Tis a pity that this man, enlightened as he is in other matters, should be withountreligion. Surely a soul like his must be lost." "But shall it be lost?" murmured his conscience. "Is it not a friend's duty to warn? Yes, I will   CaIERRY BLOSSOM.       313 speak with him; I will do my best to point out to him his error and his danger." For some time Mr. Blossom could not master sufficient resolution to undertake the self-imposed task. There was a serenity and cheerfulness in Max Edelstein's countenance which his new Fiend did not venture to disturb. "Mr. Edelstein," said Mr. Blossom at last one day, when no one, save Cherry, was with them in the room, "do you believe in the immortality of the soul?"  "Yes, 4sir, I do; for, if the soul was mortal as well as the body, if we had to die in soul as well as in body, man must certainly be the most unfor- tunate being on earth. It would be really horrible to think that'in -common with the ox or with the sheep, we are done with existence when corporeal life is extinct. That we should be endowed with reason only for the purpose of fully understanding this truly miserable situation, would be to attribute to the source of all goodness, to the Omniponent Creator of the Universe (as I believe him to be) a delight and pleasure in cruelty, totally inconsis- tent with the goodness we see is evinced by Jiim even -toward the most minute objects of creation. "   314    CHE  RY DLOSSOM. Were it so, says a celebrated philosopher,* the worst of mankind could speedily emancipate and release themselves from all divine control, and the blow of a poignard could effect the separation be- tween God and man. The wisest and best of men, the founders of our social institutions, humanity itself, would all have cheated not alone others, but themselves. The speedier the poor. laborer, who toils for a mere pittance from sunrise till sunset, should put an end to his existence, the sooner he would find rest and quiet. Only the rich, or rather those who can indulge in sensual pleasure to the greatest degree, would be justified in prolonging their stay on earth as long as the constitution of their body permits." "Your view on this subject is admirable, my friend," said Mr. Blossom, "but will you allow me to catechise you a little more" " "Certainly, sir, with great pleasure." "Do you believe in a reward and punishment hereafter? in a world hereafter for the righteous?" "A man who believes in the immortality of the soul, except he- believes in the Lama doctrine of * Mendelssohn.   HE RY BLOSSOM.        315 transmigration, must necessarily believe in a World hereafter. This I do, but I cannot believe in a world hereafter solely for the righteous." "But don't you believe that evil-doers are to be punished?" "Undoubtedly." "Then, my friend, how can they be expected to live in the world to come with the righteous?" "Because, I assume that the punishment of an evil deed follows its commission. If we transgress the laws of nature as regards our body by eating or drinking to excess, we are punished with sick- ness. The same, I think, holds true in regard to transgressions of laws of morality; if we commit an unrighteous deed, our own conscience reproves us, fear haunts us, and we become degraded in our own estimation even if we escape the punishment of human laws." "Then you do not believe in punishment here- after." "Do you mean by punishment hereafter, that which is commonly designated as hell?" "I do."  "Hell, I believe to be but a theological fable. It has, in my opinion, no existence whatever."   316    OHEBBR Y BLOSSO 8 And you, consequently, ignore the existence of the Evil One." "Most decidedly. God, according to my belief, is an all-merciful spirit, who would not desire, even if we admit that the soul could undergo it, such a punishment as         theologians declare the soul of the sinneris condemnedto. But can such punishments, can unquenching fire, for instance, affect a spirit? Our soll being a spirit, the idea of punishing that soul by fire must appear ridiculous. Our body, of course, cannot be punished after death, for we know that; it is then incapable of feeling the pain of the punishment of fire, or of any other agent of castiga- tion. The body, it isclear, then, cannot be punished, and unless our theologians devise some other way of reprovingsouls, the torments of hell will not be able to punish souls." "But hell is mentioned in the Bible. Don't you believe in the divine origin of the sacred Scrip- tures?" -"'The Scriptures, I believe to be no more of divine origin than is the Koran or the sacred books of the Brahmins, or the writings of Zoroaster and Confucius. They certainly abound with gross errors as far as natural science is concerned; they   CHERRY   BLOSSOM.      31 are filled to a. great extent with tales of murder, bloodshed and debauchery, while, perhaps, not more than one-twentieth part contains rules of practical wisdom. These rules I admit to be excellent, and made by just and wise men. I endeavor to follow these rules in my intercourse with my fellow-men, and I cannot believe in the violations of these very laws, of which there are so many instances recorded in the Bible, alleged to have been committed by the express command of God, ' I cannot believe, for instance,. that the all- merciful God ever commissioned any man or any nation to go forth and destroy their neighbors. It is contrary to the great divine lesson which we find in the Bible itself,' Love thy neighbor as thyself.' Those books, like thee revelations, where the many horned beasts and demons chase each other in mad confusion, resemble more the fables of the brothers Grim or the mythological tales of Hellenic pagan- ism. I cannot accept such compositions as originat- ing by divine inspiration." "But,- I hope; Mr. Edelstein," said Cherry, who Ilad been an attentive listener, "you will not make yourself out to be an atheist." "Far from it, my dear Miss Blossom. I do be-   318    OHERRY   BLOSSOM. lieve in a great Supreme Being in One who has created all things, who provides for all things, and loves all things. He has made millions of stars like our earth, subdived into solar systems. These stars, attended by their planets, revolve around the central sun. All these millions of stars are, I believe, popu- lated by animate beings, perhaps resembling, per- haps differing from the beings existing on our star. I do not give these as opinions of mine, they arethe theories of more learned men than myself. Even the ancient philosophers seem to have entertained a somewhat similar belief. Epicurus, for instance, asserted that at the same time things are here in the posture we see, they are alike and in the same manner in several other worlds. I certainly cannot think of a more sublime and of a more impressive exemplification of the majesty and the grandeur of the Creator, than is vouchsafed to us every evening in gazing at the star-covered sky. This is, as you are aware, not a theory of my own, but I am proud to say that I have been privileged to live in an age which has appreciated Maedler's discoveries. No scientific man has yet come forward to refute it. But though the Scriptures tell us of stars, they have certainly not told us the truth. about them.   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        319 'Can we assume, for example, that God, who cares alike for all his creatures, would single out this small earth to send his son, if he ever had one, as the New Testament teaches; or to give us a prophet as'the Koran implies; or, even worse, to single out one of the smallest nations on the face of the globe, as the Old Testament implies, in order to attain our salvation? If we do, must we not assume that similar events have happened on the other stars? "But all religious beliefs on earth, bear within their own bosom the impress of the human handi- work of their authors. They all are stamped with exclusiveness. They all lack universality. You, Miss Blossom, for instance, are a Protestant. Being such, you pray to God and Christ, but you do not pray to the Virgin Mary. You do not believe in the Immaculate Conception. In this view of Christ- ianity you differ with the Catholic. The Catholic believes what you reject, he considers you a heretic, he believes your soul is ultterly lost. You, perhaps, entertain the same opinion as to his soul, while the Baptist conscientiously believing in immersion, as- sumes that all who are not immersed, but only sprinkled, are utterly lost and damnled. As 'for lmy   30    CHERRY BLOSSOM. part, I cannot agree to this wholesale damnation and perdition of souls, which we thus hear pro- claiied from thousands of Christian pulpits, not against heathens or non-believers in Christianity, but against millions of Christians, who have the misfortune to differ in the interpretation of the very Scriptures for which they profess such un- bounded respect and obedience. "All this is contrary to the opinion I entertain of the wisdom and benevolence of the Supreme Being, and I feel sorrow, real heartfelt sorrow, to see my fellow-men arrayed against each other, creed against creed, sect against sect, in bitter acrimo- nious warfare. It makes me sad to witness their  exhibitions of hatred against each other, and I scorn the pretensions of those who claim their special religious theory to be the only true way to the gates of heaven. "These men forget that best and wisest feeling inherent originally in every human heart, of bro- therly love, though their lips may give utterance to "ove thy neighbor as thyself.' Had men kept this principle more at heart, millions of lives would have escaped death by torture, by auto-da-fe, by the sword. Countries now. desolate and poor, *  -    CHERRY BLOSSOM.       321 might be populous and wealthy, and arts and sciences would flourish in lands doomed now to bigotry and ignorance. "But you know," added Max, with a faint smile, "we are all better at preaching tharf at practising, and it must be so, for our souls, while on earth, are hemmed in and checked by the vile clay, without which they could not fulfill the mission assigned to them by the Creator." "*   CHAPTER XLV. "My dear friend," said John Blossom, when Edelstein ceased, "I believe you are a good, a noble-minded man, a man who neither fears to speak out his convictions, nor is anxious to press forward in order to attract the admiration of the world. However much we may differ in our reli- gious belief, it shall be no obstacle to friendship, and I feel proud of being able to call you my friend." "Really, Mr. Blossom, you are too lavish in your praise, and compel me to beat a retreat." "Without telling the story you promised a" asked Cherry. "You must not forget your own trite German proverb-' Ein Mann, ein Wort'-a man of honor keeps his word." "I see I cannot escape," answered Edelstein. "But it is only a short story I can give you this morning." ,  "We take cheerfully all you give us," said Cora, who had just entered the room with Father Edelstein. 8^'                        ,1          ' . J    CHERRY BLOSSOM.        323 "The site occupied by the temple of Solomon," commenced Max, "was formerly a cultivated field, possessed in common by two brothers. They lived together, however, in the greatest harmony pos- sible, cultivating the property they had inherited from their father. "The harvest season had arrived. The two brothers bound up their sheaves, made two equal stacks of them, and left them on the field. During the night the unmarried brother was struck with an excellent thought,: 'My brother,' said he to himself, 'has a wife and children to support; is it just that my portion of the harvest should be as large as his?' Upon this he arose, took from his stack several sheaves, which he added to those of his brother, and this he did with as much secrecy as if he had been committing an evil action, in order that his offer might not be rejected. "On the same night the other brother awoke and said to his wife: 'My brother lives alone, without a companion; he has none to hssist him in his labor, nor to' reward him for his toils, while God has bestowed on me a wife and children; it is not right that we should take from our common field as many sheaves as he, since we; have already more   324     I ERRY Bt o L    t. Uhappiness than he lias-domestic happiness. If you consent, we shall, by adding secretly a number of sheaves to his stock, by way of coinpensation, and, without his knowledge, see his portion of the harvest increased. The object was approved, and immediately put in execution. "In the morning, each of the brothers went into the field, and were much surprised at seeing the stacks still equal. During several successive nights the same contrivance was repeated on each side; for each kept adding to his brother's store, and the stacks always remained the same. But one night, both having sentinels to ascertain the cause of this miracle, they met, each bearing the sheaves mutually designed for the other. It was eluci- dated, and they rushed into each other's arms, each grateful to heaven for having so good a brother." "A: very pleasing illustration this, Mr: Edel- stein," said John Blossom, " of your favorite doc- trine of brotherly love. But you must confess that it happens very seldom that you will find men govern themselves by this principle. Man is self- ish, and too often seeks his own. advancement at the expense of that of his neighbor, and mortals :-    H"E R Y BLOSSOM.      325 lose sight, in attending to their gains, of the injury  they inflict on their fellow-men." ' It is one of the necessary evils attendant on society." "Would you have us, then, to do away with society, or insist, like Fourier and his disciples, on its reorganization, compelling the rich to share their possessions with the poor?" " ot at all, Mr. Blossom; I would not wish you to imagine that I share the opinions of visionary socialists, -who in their rage for equality demand the overthrow of one class in order to benefit the other. What we call society has good as well as bad fTatures, and I believe theformer greatly-over- balance the latter. Would we be benefited more than injured by the overthrow of society? I think we would be more injured. Without this organ- ization men would resemble the dumb brutes; there would be no civilization, no literature, no arts.. The scheme of equalization, however, of the different grades of society, I hold to be absolutely impossible, because it is antagonistic to nature. We see marked and distinct grades and classes in God's Works, one rising in capacity, power and in- tellect, above the other, from the tiny insect to the   326    . CHERRY BLOSSOM. Caucasian man. In our construction of society, we have, by instinct, imitated this model, and it is by dint of our passions that we either descend or mount the social ladder. There is, however, a remedy left to men who desire to better the con- dition of their more unfortunate fellow-men, where- by they may exalt their character, if not their worldly possessions." "What is it?" asked Father Edelstein. "A good moral education, my dear father." "Ah, the schoolmaster is abroad. Miss Blossom, I warn you as a friend, take heed, else you will be in danger of becoming a philosopher, like Miss Lee." "How can you say so, father?" replied Cora; "you know I hate philosophy, and it was but yester- day when I ran away from you in order to escape your lecture about Plato." "Because you belong to Edelstein's school. He is of the peripatetic, and I am of the didactic. Aristotle vs. Plato." "You are incorrigible, Mr. Edelstein. But have you a letter for me to-day?" "Excuse me; I almost forgot all about it," he replied, as he produced a letter with the Armen-  * , , t!   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        327 berg post-mark. "It is from your brother, I be- lieve." "What news " asked John Blossom, after Cora had finished reading -the letter. "When will Henry be here?" "Next Sunday week, uncle," she answered. "But do you know, Mr. Edelstein, that the duke has abdicated?" "Indeed!" exclaimed Max Edelstein, and Paul his father, at the same time. /   ' CHAPTER XLVI. '       lCHAPTER XLVi. "NDEED!" said all Armenberg, and indeed it was true. The duke had abdicated, sold out bag and baggage, his people and his lands, his domains and lis rights, to his cousin the Grand Duke of Traumberg, for a pension of ever so many thousand guilders a year. The event had taken the stolid, phlegmatic citizens of Armenberg by surprise. None but the Arch Chancellor von Schurke, a brother of the Armenberg Police Director, and the factotum of Traumberg diplomacy, had known of it, and that enlightened statesman had also known how to keep the secret till the protocols and parch- ments between the high contracting parties had been signed, sealed and delivered, and his master the most Serene Highness of Traumberg had an- nexed to his dominions the forty-square-mile ter- ritory of' his well-beloved cousin, Henry Victor Emanuel I., the Duke of Seelenhausen. As already stated, the event surprised the eiti- ,      \   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        329 zens of Henry Victor Emanuel's capital.  The emotions they felt, however, were, it must be con- fessed, not at all conciliatory to his serene highness of Traumberg, or his worthy arch chancellor. The good people of Armenberg experienced sentiments akin to the ambitious schoolboy, who exchanges his place at the head of the class, for one at the tail end. A capital degraded to the position of a mere provincial town. The blood of the Armenberg patriots shuddered with horror at this unmerited castigation. To add to their misery, the poor citi- zens were so well acquainted with the foreign and domestic policy of their new ruler, that the land- owners looked for an increase of taxes, the students for an increase of police regulations, and the shop- keepers for an increase of dullness. The long pipes shot forth increased volumes of smoke, and an increase in the consumption of beer at the taverns, brought on an increase of ill-humor. Truly, Arch Chancellor von Schurke's master-stroke for increasing his master's dominion was prolific of in- crease. Dr. Lee heard the news from the duke himself, as he made his morning visit to the palace. "Oh, doctor," said his highniess, "congratulate me."   830    CHERRY BLOSSOM. "What on, your highness?" "On getting rid of the troubles of government. Did you not hear of it?" "Is it really so, your highness? I thought it was but a false rumor." "It is the truth. Dame Rumor was correct enough this time." "And you resign the reins of government with- out regret?" "I feel infinitely relieved, I assure you." "Does your highness intend to follow Charles V.'s example, and contemplate retirement to a convent?" "Not at all; I am too young, and love the world too much. Besides, I rather prefer Diocle- tian to Charles V., notwithstanding that he was a pagan. A convent cell, in my opinion, is but another name for a prison, fit only for misanthropes. Bat I should die, in such a place, of ennui the first six months." "Your highness, however, does not intend to re- main in Armenberg?" "No, Dr. Lee; I intend to travel a few years, and, next winter I hope to wander along the banks of the Po or the Arno." -ia   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        331 "Dou you lile Italy 2" "I love it better every day; this land of song and sunshine. "Kennst du das Land, Woh die Citronen bluihen Dabin, Dahin Ach, Vater lasz mich zuihen.' "The words of our own great poet.* Are you, doctor, not also a lover of Italy?" "I think it is the fairest country beneath the sun, your highness." "Then, doctor, throw aside the pestle and the pill-bag, and come-with me!" exclaimed the duke, with eagerness. "Your highness, I am profoundly sensible of the honor you do me in making this proposal," replied Doctor Lee; "but the land of my birth, which I have not seen for years, I am too anxious to visit once more. Under any other circumstances, I would be eager and willing to accompany you." "My dear Dr. Lee, you will not take it amiss, if * Goethe in Wilhelm Meister.   332    cOHER RY BLOSSOM. I offer another explanation, and,.perhaps, a truer one, for refusing my offer," said the duke. "Your highness is speaking in riddles! What can your highness mean ." "Simply that there is a certain fair cousin behind the scenes, which acts as the magnet in drawing you to America." "Your highness does me injustice in assigning such a cause for my desire of visiting America. It is not that, I can assure yot." Not that! Look ye, Doctor Lee, I can read you better than you can yourself. You need not tell me that you are not in love." "This is certainly a new revelation to me. Your highness is jesting." "Not at all, dear doctor. But perhaps you do not know it yourself, though the proqfs are plain." (I shall have to ask your highness, then, for the proofs." "Imprimis-are your visits to Sandthal not alarm- ingly often?" "I go there to see my sister." And talk to your cousin!" Yet, I can assure your highness, that I never spoke a word of love." 3,    CHEBRY   BLOSSOM.       333 "So much the worse for you. Like Ben Jonson's Lovel,* you may say, "' I have oft been too in her company, And looked upon her a whole day, admired her, Loved her, and did not tell her so; loved still, Looked still and loved, and loved, and looked, and sighed.' "'Truly, doctor mine, Cupid has wounded you sorely. Shall I prescribe for you?" "Would your highness turn physician?" "Not I, indeed!  You, perhaps, are acquainted with the quaint advice, 'throw physic to the dogs.' But I must not detain you with my badinage, else you might invoke the shade of Hippocrates to dis- turb the slumbers of one who has not "' Loved and looked, and sighed.' as you have, dear doctor. So, good bye." * The New Inn.    CHAPTER XLVII. THE Duke had certainly helped Dr. Lee to realize more clearly his state of mind, when he rallied him on being smitten with the charms of his fair cousin. Dr. Lee, himself, felt that there was more truth in the allegations of the duke than he had been willing at first to admit. His visits to Sandthal were neither few nor far between, and it was indeed in Cherry's company that he passed most of his time and felt the greatest delight, Cherry had captivated the doctor's heart without desiring to make the conquest. She had accepted Dr. Lee's attentions as coming from a,-cousin, not from a lover, She had thanked him for his flowers, and accepted his books, without thinking that her warm-hearted words of thanks were only fanning the flame of love in her cousin's breast. She had sung his favorite arias, and walked by his side through fields and forests without being aware of the true nature of her cousin's sentiments. And Dr. Lee, the bold, 834   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        335 strong mal, who could face death and danger, had not dared to breathe aught of these to her. Truly had the duke characterized him as one who "Looked still and loved, and loved, and looked, and sighed," as all bashful lovers do, thinking that their passion may be read by looking at their face, as clearly as a well-posted account in the merchant's ledger. Dr. Lee had time to ruminate and ponder on the duke's words ere he again visited Sandthal. Some- what like a philosopher, he began by doubting the fact of his being in love, and by investigating his doubts convinced himself that there was no doubt of his loving his cousin Cherry; but, alas, in the ardor of his passion, he did not consider that his fair, though less philosophical, cousin, might doubt the possibility of returning love for love. Nay, worse, lie could see no obstacle in the way to matrimonial happiness; and applying Caesar's words* to his own case, he mounted his steed to cross the Rubicon. On his arrival at Sandthal, he found his uncle Blossom alone in the house, and after making due inquiries about his health, learned that the young ladies had gone out with Max Edelstein. * Aleajacta est.   336    oneBRRY BLOSSOM. Dr. Lee felt rather pleased at not being obliged to confront his fair cousin at once, for, in fact, his heart had become filled again with irresolution, and the doubts which he had chased away in Armenberg had overtaken him on his journey, and were making sad havoc with his peace ofmind. Brave Dr. Lee felt the need of a friend, and his uncle, John Blos- som, to whom he unburdened his heart, and asked permission to address his ward, did help to rid him of his doubts. "It is just what I wish you to do, Harry 1" said John Blossom, after hpe had heard him to an end; "you see I am getting old, and have Cherry left on my hands. There is nothing I should like better than to have her comfortably settled. Now, if you and Cherry can make a match of it, and live  with me in New York, I shall feel satisfied." "Dear Uncle John, you could not confer on me  a greater blessing. I love Cherry with all my heart. If you'll allow me, 'll go now and ask her  consent." "She will be happy, Harry, to see you," said John Blossom. "' Come back soon."  "I will! I will!" exclaimed the doctor, as he left the house in search of the absent one. Away  -.  **  "  *   * s   OHERR Y BLO S O M.      337 he sped, ratler running than walking, the happiest of mortals, to tender his hand and heart to his fair cousin. Striding through the green fields and the forest, he at last came to the river bank, where he found Max Edelstein with his sister. "Where is Cherry?" he asked. "She is gathering flowers yonder in the meadow," replied Cora.  "You may go and help her, Harry. Max and myself both offered our services, but Cherry, you see, has been waiting for you to come." The doctor soon reached the meadow, where, amid the tall grass, Cherry was gathering her har- vest of wild flowers. "Ah, Cousin Harry, this is an unexpected plea- sure," said she, as he kissed her. "Did you wish for me to come?" "Of course, Harry." You really did wish it, Cherry?" "Certainly I did. Why do you ask?" "Because ddar Cherry," and he took her hand in his, "Ilove you dearly, and would ask love for love." "Cousin Harryfhow strange you talk?" she re- plied, her) pale face changing color as she tried to free her hand. 15   338    OHERRY   BLOSSOM. "Cherry, Cher Cherry, do not think it strange. I love you better than anything on earth. My hap- piness lies in your hand. Will you be my wife " She answered him not, but withdrawing her hand from his grasp, she shook her head. "Is this your answer?" asked Dr. Lee. "It is."  "Oh, Cherry, say not so. Give me some hope. Say you will consider it," he entreated. "Harry, I can never be yours." "Why not, Cherry a" "Because my faith is already plighted  to another." The young physician felt stunned; he staggered as if from the effects of a sudden blow. A blow it truly was, fatal to the joy he had brought with him into the meadow. Some minutes elapsed ere he could compose himself, while poor Cherry stood trembling, and with her head buried in her hands, looking more like a criminal than anything else '"Cherry dear, forgive' me," said the doctor at last, again taking her hand. "I did not know of this before, or I should not have'roubled you." "Oh, dear Cousin Harry, I am to blame, no- you."   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        339 "Let us both forget it, cousin. But, pardon my curiosity. May I ask you a question?" "Certainly, Harry." Do you love Max Edelstein?" Cherry had to smile amid her tears, as she an- swered, "No."  "Or, perhaps the duke?" "Nor him either," she replied. "You do not know him, Harry, though I do not mind telling you all about it. I wanted to speak to you on this, but my heart failed me." "Don't be afraid of me, Cherry. If I cannot be your husband, I will not forget that I am your cousin. Here, let us sit down under this old oak- tree, and I will play the role of father confessor." Thus speaking, he led her to the rustic bench under the tree, and taking a seat at her side, he asked, "Who is the gentleman?" His name is Osborne." "Osborne? Does he live in New York?" "Oh no, he lives in Mexich; but I met him in our city." "Does Uncle Blossom know him?"  X "I believe not," she replied hesitatingly; " but his former partner, Mr. Martin, is acquainted with   840    CHERRY BLOSSOM. Mr. Osborne. It was at Mrs. Martin's that I first saw him." "And your uncle is not aware of your engage- ment " "No, Harry.  His sudden sickness, and this journey we. had to undertake in consequence, pre- vented me from telling him all. I dread to speak to him about it."- "Do not fear, Cherry. If your lover is a worthy and estimable gentleman, and one who can take proper care of you, I do not think that your uncle will have any objections. You will have to tell him, should he ask you. But now let us go, for it is getting late, and I have to ride back to town yet." Silently the cousins walked to the village, both too much occupied with their thoughts to allow their lips to speak. When they reached the house, the doctor kissed Cherry's brow, pressed her hand to  his lips once more, and said, "God bless you,  Cherry." Then mounting his steed, he rode away    i in the twilight.  She stood like one entranced, gazing at the horse  and its lider, till they had disappeared in the dis- tance. Still she stood for some minutes, till the in-   PHERRY   BLOSSOM.      341 creasing darkness shut out all else from view, and then she hurried up to her own room to have a good hearty cry, first telling Cora, who -passed her in the hall, that Dr. Lee had returned to town, and that she herself was suffering from a headache. ,  of * ,       8   CHAPTER XLVIII. GREAT was John Blossom's surprise when he heard from Cora Lee that her brother had returned to town. "What; not time to stay here to-night " he ex- claimed. "So he said, uncle." "Where is Cherry?" "She complained of having a headache, and went upstairs to lie down." "Headache? nonsense! I don't believe it. You better tell Cherry to come down. I want to speak with her." Cora accordingly went upstairs to look for Cherry. She found her sitting in her room bathed in tears, "What is the matter, Cherry dear?" asked Cora . "Oh, dear, dear Cora," replied Cherry, flinging her arms around Cora's neck, "Uncle John wants me to marry your brother Harry." 842 we     '           .    i .   CHERRY BLOSSOM.       343 "And you have"- "Refused him. Oh, don't be angry, Cora." "Angry  Why should I?" "Because he is your brother." "I rather should thank you, for having the courage and good sense to refuse him, if you could not give your love with your hand." "But, oh Cora, I felt so sorry for him when the poor fellow asked me to become his wife and I re- fused. I was wrong in not telling Uncle John." "Tell what?" "That I was already engaged." "You engaged, Cherry! Who to?" "A gentleman I became acquainted with in New York." "Any one I know?" "No, Cora." "Tell me, Cherry." "I do not mind telling you, but I fear to say anything to Uncle John about it." "Why?" "I hardly know myself.- He is so strange some- times, and I have such a dread that lie might not like it." "Did you tell Harry?"   344    C  E RRY BLOSSOM. "I did, Cora." "What did he say " "That I should tell Uncle John. But, dear me, I have not the heart to do it." "Sit down, Cherry, and calm yourself before you go down," replied Cora, and taking a seat at her cousin's side, she heard from her the story of her love. "There is nothing wrong in all that, as far as I see," said Cora, when her cousin had concluded; "now, wash your eyes and cry no more. You must go down to jncle Blossom and tell him all; I do not think that he will have any objections." Objections, however, Mr. Blossom did have. Cherry's meeting with her uncle was a stormy one. John Blossom was not to be appeased by Cherry's tears when he heard that she had rejected Dr. Lee's  addresses, and his anger knew no bounds when Cherry acquainted him with the engagement she had contracted with Mr. Osborne. Cherry had never seen her uncle so excited and irritated before, and the mention of her lover's name seemed to add fuel to his anger. "I'll disinherit you! I'll curse you if you dare to marry that man, Cherry!" he exclaimed.   oHERRY BLOSSOM.        345 She shrank into a corner, struck dumb with amazement, sorrow, and terror, and but for Cora's intervention would not have dared to quit' the room. The next day Mr. Blossom could not leave his bed, in consequence of a sudden and violent attack of fever, the result, his physician declared, of too great excitement. Again he grew delirious, and the physician had to exclude all from the sick chamber save Max Edelstein and Mother Agatha, the housekeeper. Cora and Cherry beseeched Max to allow them to come in, but he was compelled to refuse their request. At Cora's solicitation, how- ever, Max went to Armenberg for Dr. Lee, on the following day, to acquaint him with Mr. Blossom's sickness, and to induce him to come down to Sandthal. 15*   CHAPTER XLIX. MAX EDELSTEIN was not long in finding his way back to Doctor Lee's residence in Armenberg. The doctor, however, was not at home when Max came. Early in the day, the servant said, three strange gentlemen had called on him, and after staying more than two hours in his room, the doctor had gone out with the strangers, leaving word that he  would not be back for dinner. Edelstein, therefore, though he was impatient to return to Sandthal, had to delay his departure. It was not till evening that Dr. Lee returned. "What, you here again, Max!" he exclaimed as   j he shook hands with his visitor. c All the people at home are well, I hope." "I should not be here if. they were," replied Max; "Mr. Blossom, I am sorry to say, is quite ill." ' "Has he had a relapse?" "I believe so. At all events, I know he is very 846   OH ERRY BLOSSOM.       347 sick. He is down with a fever, and though Dr. Fibcher is attending him, Miss Cora thought it would be better to send for you." Quite right, Max, but it is impossible for us to go there to-night. In the morning we shall start early. Besides, I have three visitors here who also want to see Mr. Blossom urgently." "Your servant told me that three gentlemen called on you this morning."  "Do you know what for?" "I have not the slightest idea." "It is a curious, mixed-up affair-quite romantic, I assure you.-' "Ah, indeed t What is it?" "I hardly know, myself, whether to believe it or not. But I will tell you, and then you may judge for yourself. Yesterday, three strangers-the men who were here this morning-arrived in town from New York. They had expected to find my uncle here, but when they asked the landlord of the Hotel de Saxe, where they are stopping, if there were any Americans in Armenberg, they were in- formed that I was the only one here at present. Finding that they could hear nothing at the hotel ,f Mr. Blossom, they called on me this morning to J.    348     HERRY BLOSSOM. make further inquiries, though not aware that I was in any way related to the object of their search. When I informed them of the fact, as well as of Mr. Blossom's sojourn in Sandthal, they in turn gave me a brief but succinct account of the reasons and circumstances which had induced them to undertake this journey; the eldest, a Mexican priest, acting as spokesman, while his two companions Senor Garcia, a Spaniard, and a young gentleman from Vera Cruz, named Osborne, confirmed what the clergyman said. They had been on the look- out for Mr. Blossom several weeks, but it was only through the papers that they heard how he came to be detained here. ' My uncle, Mr. Blossom, you must know, lived for several years in the city of Vera Cruz, with his mother's brother, Robert Osborne. While residing "with this gentleman as his adopted son, he went under the name of Osborne. On a journey from Mexico to Vera Cruz, he became acquainted with a young lady named Elvira Morales, the only child of a retired Spanish merchant, and the acquaintance in due time resulted in marriage. The first year of their union all went well, but shortly after the birth of a son, the young gentleman who was here this / s   CHERR Y BLOSSOM.       349 morning, Mr. Blossom received what he deemed to! be proofs of his wife's infidelity. In consequence he left the country suddenly, without seeing his wife, and returned to New York, where he resumed his father's name. The forsaken wife made all pos- sible efforts to find out the place of his retreat, but without success, and she remained in Vera Cruz alone with her son, till she died about a year ago. Her son then, in company with Father Jose, the priest, determined to travel for a few years, actuated with the hope of finding his father, to lay before him convincing testimony of his mother's innocence. On coming to Paris they met Seiior Garcia,' who, it appears, was formerly my uncle's partner, and at the same time the innocent cause of all this domestic difficulty. To all this strange story it must be added that Mr. Osborne met my cousin Cherry in New York, and the two young people, having nothing better to do, fell in love- with each other, and, I believe, made an engagement, to which nothing is wanted but my uncle Blossom's consent. The young gentleman was on the point of asking this, when Mr. Blossom's sickness necessitated his sudden departure for Europe." "My  dear doctor," said Max, "what you   }0    aC HERnY BLOSSOM. iave told me sounds more like romance than reality," "But, nevertheless, these men swear it is true, and I was to set out for Sandthal with them to- morrow, to act as peace-maker between father and son. The young gentleman, I can assure you, is quite anxious to see his father and his bride." "At all events I sincerely trust that it may all turn out well, though you will lose by this dewu-o2- neent of a comedy of errors." "Lose what " "The chance of marrying your cousin."       - "I am  perfectly reconciled to my loss, and will forget my disappointment in seeing the world." -  "You are not going to turn traveller, I hope?" "Indeed, I am. I have agreed to become the duke's travelling companion, and in about two months we are to set out for Italy."  "What a pity to give up your practice here!" "I am tired of Armenberg, to tell you the truth, and since you are gone, and my sister talks of going back to America with Mr. Blossom, I should die of ennwi."   "I don't believe that your sister will like to leave our fatherland.' "Why not, Max?" "It is but the other day that she declared if you came to live at Sandthal, she would not leave it. She is perfectly delighted with our village." "I believe my sister likes Sandthal, mainly be- cause Max Edelstein lives there." "You are joking, doctor!" "Indeed, I am not. I believe Cora and you would make a good match." "Your sister would never have me. I am too old, and a widower in the bargain." "There is nothing objectionable in that. You are barely thirty-five years old. Just the right age. I would not wish for a better protector for my sister." "Yo really then think that Miss Cora would not reject me?" "Miss Cora must answer for herself in that re- spect. Ask her, man, and see. None but the brave deserve the fair. But now let us have supper, and after that we will go to the HoItel de Saxe, where I will give you an introduction to my new friends.   352     CHERRY   BLOSSOM. To-morrow we must start for Sandthal, and set matters all right." I don't think that will be so very difficult." "No, I believe not, unless the old gentleman should be too obstinate. However, we shall see."   CHAPTER   L. ACCORDING to the programme sketched out by Dr. Lee, the whole party started for Sandthal early the next morning, all alike impatient to witness the denoufment of this chapter of complications. On their arrival, the three strangers drove to the vil- lage inn, as Dr. Lee did not deem it expedient to to take Mr. Blossom by surprise, fearing that his nerves, already strung high by unusual excitement, might not be able to withstand the suddenness of the revelations he was to hear. Max Edelstein and the doctor, therefore, after seeing their new friends installed in the best rooms tho rural hostlery could boast of, went alone to Father Edelstein's house. Cora and Cherry, who had been waiting anxiously for their coming, met the two at the door with the gratifying news that Mr. Blossom was considered out of danger; the fever had left him, and be was now in a profound slumber. "This is really good news, Cherry," said the 858   i354    CHERRY BLOSSOM. doctor, "which you are telling me; but, cousin mine, I have equally as welcome tidings for you." Taking her aside, he acquainted Cherry with young Osborne's arrival, but at the same time cautioned her to avoid of telling aught to Mr. Blossom, till, as he expressed it, "the coast was clear." "Thank you, dear Cousin Harry," said Cherry, as the doctor concluded. "You are no longer angry with me, are you i" "Oh, no, Cherry; we shall always remain friends."  "Dear Hgrry, you are indeed lly friend." For several days the embargo imposed upon the lovers by Dr. Lee's command continued in fill force, with the exception perhaps of sundry notes faithfully carried by a rustic Mercury from the village in to the Edelstein homestead, followed of course by responsive messages whose contents the reader doubtless would feel but small interest in perusing. John Blossom, in the meantime, was recovering slowly but surely. Max Edelstein, who had under- taken the task of breaking to the invalid the news of his son's arrival, was almost constantly with him,   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        355 awaiting a suitable opportunity to prepa'e his mind. Mr. Blossom  himself never alluded to Cherry's refusal to marry her cousin. He felt con- vinced that in his rashness he had been guilty of injustice and rudeness to his niece, and he treated her now with even more consideration and kind- ness than formerly. Armenberg about this time was startled from its philosophical quietness by a tale of horror. which gave rise to unlimited discussion by the whole population, and of course found its way into the public prints. It was no less than a case of wife- murder and suicide. A man named John Bahr, a professor in the Armenberg University, had stabbed his wife and then shot himself. Of course that great tribunal, THE PUBLIC, agreed to disagree as to the motives which had prompted the enact- ment of this double tragedy, and it was variously commented on in Armenberg and at other places. At Sandthal, two men especially felt grieved, namely Dr. Lee and Max Edelstein. He had been their teacher, and also had proved himself a true friend to-both. Max, in the course of conversation, gave Mr. Blossom the particulars of the unfortunate event.   356    CHERRY BLOSSOM.  "It was jealousy, rage, and shame," said he, "which prompted Bahr to do it. His house was a pleasant place to spend an hour or two in the evening. It was a regular rendezvous where genius and talent went hand in hand with humor and wit. The pirfessor himself played the genial host with no small success, and his wife was ever anxious to contribute to the amusement of her hus- band's guests. In an evil hour Bahr became acquainted with an Italian singer, named Andres, a man of pleasing address and fascinating manners, but of lax morality. This Italian scamp, made the professor's house his headquarters, was loud in his profession of friendship for his host, and insinuated himself in the good graces of Madame Bahr. The professor's wife took music lessons, during which Andres talked of Platonic attachments. The results  I leave you to imagine for yourself. The wretched  husband only awoke to the consciousness of his guest's true character when it was too late. The wily Italian fled in time, but the guilty wife re- mained, and on her the unfortunate man inflicted the most summary punishment in the first outhreak of his anger."  "My dear Edelstein," said Mr. Blossom, who   CHERRY BLOSS OM.       357 had listened to Max's story with evident signs of emotion, "this poor man deserved better of the world, but I trust he is now beyond all misery. I do not pity his wife; she richly deserved her fate." ", Mr. Blossom, I doubt whether it was justifiable in Bahr to act as he has done." "Why not, Edelstein?" "I maintain that since life was given us by God, that He is the only one who should take it from us. If Madame Bahr would have lived she might sooner or later have seen her error, and might have repented. As it is, she has been removed from the earthly sphere of usefulness wherein God had -placed her, while her husband also has deprived the world of his own life." "But they are now both removed from the misery, pity, and scorn of the world." "My dear Mr. Blossom, if I keep one of my pupils after the regular hours in the schoolhouse, it is to correct him. If he leaves the house without my orders, he fails to be corrected by the punish- ment I intended to inflict on him, and his comrades who see my authority set at defiance, learn to be equally disobedient. The same holds true with re-   358    CHERRY BLOSSOM. gard to this case. The example given by men like Professor Bahr to their fellow-men induces them to violate and set aside nature's laws. Men arrogate to themselves the right which belongs to God alone, of shortening or prolonging life. We should all bear our fate with resignation, putting our trust in Him. "ife is uncertain,' says a popular adage, referring to our stay on earth, but the life hereafter is no less so. The question what will happen to us after death is as unsolved a problem as the object God had in view in putting us on earth. We only feel, or are impressed with the conviction that this life is a  term of probation, and is it not cowardly in us to shorten its duration?" "But man in such a case acts as the agent of the  divine power." "If such were the case, Mr. Blossom, any mur- derer or assassin might plead this in justification of his crime. How could a court of justice dare to  convict a man who simply acts as the agent of the divine power. Besides, man is not infallible; he  may be imposed upon and become a victim of con- spiracy, the innocent tool of" unscrupulous men or women, to execute their plans of vengeance. I, but the other day, met a friend, a Spanish gentleman, /      m   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        359 who told me of a case in point.- I will tell it to you if you are not too fatigued to listen." "Not in the least, Mr. Edelstein. Pray, go on." "My friend, who lived for a number of years in Central America, once had as a partner a young gentleman from your country who, possessed of riches, friends, and a loving wife, deemed himself the happiest mortal alive. His happiness, how- ever, fled when he fancied to have discovered con- vincing proofs of his wife's unfaithfulness. 'The devil,' my friend said, 'in the shape of a woman, had concocted a plot so artfully, that the husband fell into the snare laid for him.'" "Did he kill his wife?"  "No, sir, but he deserted her anr has never been heard of since. The innocent wife lived long enough to accumulate overwhelming evidence of the injustice of the charge, and to establish her own innocence, and on her death-bed, she made her son take an oath that he would endeavor to -find his father and lay before him the proofs of his mother's innocence." "Great God, how strange!" muttered John Blos- som, turning deadly pale. "Yes, it is truly strange," said Max. \   360    CHERRY B1LOSSOM.             i "And do you know the name of this unfortunate man?" "I do not." "Where is your friend Is he yet in the vil- lage a "Yes, Mr. Blossom, but I understand he will leave to-morrow." "What is his name?" "Garcia." "Garcia!" exclaimed Mr. Blossom, with energy. "Yes, sir," replied Edelstein. "And he speaks the truth?" I have never known him to tell a falsehood." "Max Edelstein," said John Blossom with vehe- mence, "do you know that I am the man Garcia told of? Oh, God, what have I done!" and he buried his face in his hands. You, Mr. Blossom r" "Yes, yes, Edelstein; I am the man he speaks of. I am the wretch who left his wife to die bro- ken-hearted?" ' Calm yourself, Mr. Blossom." "Will you tell Garcia to come to me," continued the invalid; "he will not refuse me. I wish to ask his forgiveness."   CHERRY   BLOSSO-M.,     361 "Certainly, if you desire it." "May heaven bless you, Max Edelstein, for your kindness." "But will you be able to bear the excitement?"  "I must see him, Max, were I to fall dead at his feet the next minute." "Calm yourself, my friend," again said Edel- stein; "Iwill see Garcia to-night when lie returns, and I have no doubt that he will come." "And he knows where my son is?" "He informed me that he met him in New York." "Yes, yes, Hsaw him myself."  "You!" "Yes, but I was not able to bear his glance. I will-tell you more hereafter. Leave me now, Max, and see Garcia. Ask him to come to me-ask hini to come at-once." 16   CHAPTER LI. MAX EDELSTEIN left John Blossom's room, and in company with Dr. Lee proceeded to the village inn, where they held a consultation with the stran- gers as to the best mode of proceeding. Young Osborne, the most interested, was for going even that very evening to his father, but he had to yield to the advice of his friends, who justly feared that a sudden interview might prove fatal to Mr. Blos- gom's life. Garcia himself, in the ardor of his Spanish blood, at first had seconded him; but Father Jos6 sided with the doctor .and Max, who advised that Garcia should present himself in the invalid's room alone, the next morning, and by degrees break to him the news of his son's arrival. Young Osborne, however, insisted upon accompany- ing the doctor and Max to the house, and of being allowed to see his cousin. As Cherry's health was in no danger whatever of being injured by seeing her lover, Dr. Lee had to consent to a moon- ug   CHERRY BLOSSOM.        363 light interview. The meeting between Cherry and Juan was a most joyful one; words at first failed them to express their gladness, and the young man strained his beloved to his bosom, and fervently kissed her lips. When the first transports of joy were over, Juan told her all, dissipating by his narrative all doubts and hindrances heretofore in the way to their union. It -was not till late that the two cousins could be parted, for each had a story to tell and to hear, and when they took leave for the night it was with a renewal of protestations of endless love. The next day, Garcia, in company with Max Edelstein and Dr. Lee, called on John Blossom, who had impatiently awaited their arrival. Max and the doctor were about to withdraw, after the first greetings were over, when Mr. Blossom said: "You may stay, my young friends, and hear it all." Garcia then produced Adeline Ferrier's confes- sion, and read it aloud, giving afterward an ac- count of his wanderings, and of his subsequent visit to Paris, where he said he had met young Osborne. "And there you met my son?" eagerly asked John Blossom. Yes, sir."   364   cHE R  Y BLOSSO M. Is he there at present?" "No, sir, he accompanied me here." "Is he here?" asked Mr. Blossom." "He is here," exclaimed Juan himself, opening the door, and kneeling at the sofa whereon the in- valid was reposing. "My son! my son!" exclaimed Blossom, em- bracing him fervently. Dr. Lee making a sign to Max and Garcia, they left the room unperceived by father and son. A knock at the door, however, soon interrupted their interview. Come in," said Mr. Blossom; and Cherry, ra diant with joy, entered, flinging herself on her uncle's bosom, and giving vent to her tears.  "Father, will you give her to me 2" asked Juan. "Willingly," replied he, and he joined their hands. .They knelt before hilm and he blessed them. Later in the day Father Jos6 called on Mr. BkIs- som, and was also welcomed eagerly. The priest had a long interview, during the course of which he gave his auditor a minute account of the life of his Elvira, of her last words, and of the injunction she had laid on her son. Mr. Blossom was deeply affected, and needed all the consolation of the aged priest.   CONCLUSION.  A MOTiH after the events noticed in the preced- ing chapter, there were two weddings in the village church of Sandthal: Juan Osborne, or Blossom, as we ought to call him, was leading his cousin Cherry to the altar, and Max Edelstein, having profited by the doctor's counsel, became the happy husband of Cora Lee. There was a numerous at- tendance of distinguished guests, prominent among whom was His Highness Henry Victor Emanuel, the Duke of Seelenhausen, who gave both brides away, remarking jocularly, at the time, that he would rather keep one of them. Immediately after the ceremony was over, the Seelenhausen Gazette stated that his highness the duke and Dr. Lee set out for Italy. They have since, however, visited Greece, Egypt, Palestine, and Ninevah, and Dr. Lee, while sitting on a great sphynx in front of the throne of his majesty, Nebu- chadnezzar, occupied for the time by the Duke 865   HERRY   BLOSSOM.  366        CHERRY BLOSSOM. Henry Victor Emanuel, read two letters to his highness.  One of these epistles bore the post- mark "New   York" on its cover, and the other that of Sandthal. We will not give all the con- tents, but merely say that in both letters mention is made of two interesting young gentlemen, known respectively as Henry Lee Blossom, and Henry Lee Edelstein, and they both send their best respects to his highness the duke and to their uncle. John Blossom, also, sends his compliments and so does Prof. Ehrenbach. In the churchyard of Sandthal, however, lies the body of Father Adam Edelstein; his soul has fled to a better world. Garcia lives at Cadiz, and Father Jos6 has returned to Vera:-Cruzs  Cora and Matx, and Cherry and Juan, are all well and content. ]trs. Finch yet lives-with Mr. Blossom and the; young couple, and finally, Mr. and Mrs. Martin 'give it iI theii opinion, that  " ALL IS WELL THAT . ENDS WELL ," THE END.   I 1   SALAD FOR G'ilaij SOCIAL. BY THE AUTHOR OF "SALAD FOR THE SOLITARY." 12mo. cloth. $1 25. "Here we have a book-Salad, composed of various and vivacious gossip on men and things, and cunningly seasoned with a pleasant humor. We read and can fancy oneself a listener at some table, where the guests are rare and lively talkers, such is its fountain of anecdote," etc.-British Quarterly Rev. "A book for all readers, every page containing something interesting to some one. It-is the essence of a library-the information of a life-time."-London Morning Chronicle. " Here is a book to our heart's content; an exquisite medley of all sorts of ap- petizing and delicious matters collected from all parts, and mixed with the ge- nius of an artist."-London Oritic. "It abounds in sententious and pungent aphorisms, beautiful passages of sentiment and philosophy, amusing anecdotes and solid practical infrmaation- all collected from rare sources inaccessible to the majority of readers."-fomne Joubrsal. * "In some respects it resembles the collectlons of D'Israell, but in the work before us we find a more manly tone of feeling.-- W. 0. Bryant (Ev. Post.) " It is not a work to be read, but re-read, and I believe the second pleasure will be fully equal to the first."-6r. .  RP. Jaames. " We know of no book we should select in preference to this flavorous volume with which to while away a dull day,"--. Y. Quarterly Rev. "It firnishes a fund of amusement to the reader, while at the same time it Instructs and benefits him."-Anglo Sawon. " This Salad is a collection of choice passages, connected by such extensive links of original composition, as to elevate the whole almost to the character of an original work. The materials are artistically.digested. We should add that the greater number of the authors thus drawn upon are not hackneyed and fa- miliar. It reminds us of the invaluable collection by the elder D'Israell."- Espr.es  1' Itis even a more agreeable book than ' Saad for the Solitary,' the suc- cess of which both in this country and in England has been so remarkable."- Commercial Ads. ** The above book sent prepaid to any address on receipt of the price. ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 13 Frankfort Street, New York. 2  Copiec mailed to any diflance, poetage paid, on receipt of price. TH E WOOD-RANGER S; OR, - 'x1.: -TRAPPERS OP SONORA. BY CAPT. MAYNE REID. AUTHOR Oi THE "SCALP HUNTERS,' "RIFLE RANGERS," ETC. ETC. Containing nearly 500 pages, handsomely embellished with original designs, Engraved in the highest style of the art, by N. Orr, Esq. Price $1 25. THB perfidy and wickedness of the ambitious Antonio de Mediana, in compassing the murder of his brother's wife, and, as he supposed, the destruction of her son, are graphi- cally contrasted with the devotion and noble daring of Bois-Rose and his singular compa- nion Pep5; while the love passages of Fabian (the son ofthe Countess de Mediana, lost in Sonora, under the name of Tiburcio Arellanos), and the thrilling adventures'of the expe- dition to the Golden Valley, are intensely interesting. C O  :NT -E 'T    . S.   PepS, the Sleeper. The Sentinel of La Ensenada. The Alcalde and his Clerk. The Forsaken Chamber. Pep6's Revanche. Sonora. Two Honest Gentlemen. The Senator Tragaduros. The Compact. An Afternoon Ride. An Unfortunate Traveller. Tiburcio Arellanos. A Stumbling Horse. La Poza. Nocturnal Visitors. The Tiger Hunters. Unexpected Recognitions. the Hacienda del Venado. Rosarita. The Assignation. The Duke de Armada. The New Kingdom. Quarrelsome Gamesters. Tiburcio ins Danger. Love through the Window. An Abrupt Departure. The Lone Fire in the Forest.   The Wood-Rangers. Old Souvenirs. Bols-Rose and Fabian. The Recognition. Souvenirs of Elanchovl. The Man in the Yellow Jacket. The Blood of the Medianas. A Bird's-Eye-View of the Desert. The Alarm. The Attack. After the Fight.- The Islet, An Indian Diplomat. Indian Cunning. The Blackbird. A Feat of Herculean Strength. The Floating Islet. The Finger of God. The Golden Valley. The Punishment of Tantalus. The King-Maker a Captive. The Two Medianas Face to Face. Lynch Law. The 'Judgment-of God. The man of the Red Kerchief. The Stranger's Story. The Return.   Address all Orders to ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 13 Frankfort Street, N. Y. i    at Copies mailed to any dlslance5 postage paid, on receipt of price. WILDD LIFE; OR, ADVENTURES ON THE FRONTIER. BY CAPT. MAYNE REID, AUTHOR OF "THE WHTE CHEF,"' "WAR TRAIL," ETC. Containing nearly 600 pages, handsomely embellished with original designs, Engraved in the highest style of the art, by N. Orr, Esq. Price $1 25. TiE popularity of ilayne Reld's works, both in this country and abroad, is sufficiently indicated in the avidity with which each new publication is sought by the numerous readers of those already published. This eagerness we have spared no expense to gratify, having invariatly secured the advance sheets at the earliest possible moment; and we are happy to be able to present to the American public a new volume which is said to surpass all the previous ones in stirring incident and graphic adventure. "WILD LIFE " cannot fail to enlist the warm sympathies of the reader, who will here find that the talented author has entered a new field, rich in all the romantic incideut which his pen is so capable of working up into those thrilling climaxes, which, while they startle the imagination, enchain the mind, as, with a magician's wand, each new wonder is revealed to the absorbed and attentive reader. C: O N 1T T B T S.   Big Bill P. Family Quarrels. The Departure. Death of the Betrayed and Betrayer. An Old Acquaintance. "Feeling" the Way. The Enemy Overtaken. Davis the Half-breed. A Mexican War Horse. The Dancing Bear. The Prairie Scout. The Maniac Horseman, A Trailin' Party. Bill Johnson "' Stumped." Death of the Traitor. * "Fixin" ' a Yaller Belly. The Night Attack. Mustangs. A Prairie Scamper.   The Peril-The Rescue. A Dangerous Deliverer. The Self-Accused. The Gambler's Story-The Murder, Trial by a Texan Jury. The Execution. The Attack-The Repulse. The Dead Alive. Brothers and Sisters. The Last Adventure of a Coquette, The Death of Cordova. The Husband's Ruse. The Wounded Guerrilla. The Unknown Artist. Wanita. Scouting near Vera Cruz. Mexican Jealousy. A Campaign in, Texas. The Escape.    Addrese all Orders to ROBERT M. DE WITT, PBLISHER, 13 Frankfort Strcet, N. Y.    HARRY HARSON:                                    1 OR, THE BENEVOLENT BACHELOR. A. STOR,        OF L I xi      I N  N : EW    Yr2 O 1:T  BY  JOHN  T. IRVING   (NErPEW  OF WASHNGTON IRVING.) AUTHOR OF THE "ATTORNEY." One large 12mo. $1 25. OF this work, one of our best critics says: "It has traces of the quiet humor of Washington Irving, and of the strong, bold character-drawing of Dickens. The scenes are felicitously conceived, and awaken an intense interest in the reader." SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. "It is full of humor, and, as a composition, infinitely above seven-eighths of the modern works of fiction."--Dollar Newspaper, Philadelphia, Pa. "It is from the pen of a relative of the first of living American writers, and not un- worthy the pen of the author of the 'Sketch-Book.' The author is a man of keen percep. tion, and throughout the work never allows the attention of the reader to flag. Such a book-maker will not be allowed to remain idle."-Golden Rlle, .. Y. "Upon a re-perusal, after years of forgetfulness, we find the language as quaint, rich, racy and amusing as is to be found in the works of the elder Irving. Besides,'the plot increases in interest as the story progresses, until, like the best works of fiction, it becomes absorhing."-Daily Times, Zosisville, Ky. "It is an ingeniously plotted, handsomely-expressed, and well-sustalned tale, cont an- ing some exquisite passages, and imbued throughout with real feeling. We can honestly say we like the book."-AMorning E7press, Biffalo, N. Y, "The story is deeply interesting, and the stvle admirable. It is a work that can be lead over and over again with renewed pleasure."-New Orleans iicayi ne. "There are few of our later publications which comprise a greater degree of stirring Incident, or exhibit a more enviable literary power and talent."-Journal, Beloit, Wis. "The story is fraught with finely-drawn characters, and most charming pictures of life may be found on almost every page."-Commercial Register, Sandusky City, Ohio. "There can be no manner of doubt as to the merit of the work; it is thoroughly American, and great ability is perceptible on every page."-Evening Chronicle, Pitts- burg, Pa. "It is elegantly written-some of the characters are drawn with a power *e have rarely seen equalled. Crime is pictured with a demon aspect. Suffering virtue is exhibited patient, submissive, and in death peaceful. Remorse absolutely shocks us by the horrid dance it leads its victims."-Northern Budget, Troy, N. Y. Addrd'es all orders to ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER,   O IN E-AN JD-TW EIN T Y. BY THE AUTHOR OF "WILDFLOWER," "HOUSE OF ELMORE," ETC Octavo, paper covers, price 50 cents. The following are a few opinions from the English papers: "The talented author of ' Wildflower,' has thrown all her power into this work, which is by far the best of the many excellent ones that have issued from her pen; and we think will take rank as the most brilliant novel of the day. The characters are drawn with a most masterly hand, evincing a thorough knowledge of the main-springs of human action, and a deep insight into the controlling passions which prompt' us to good or to evil. The designing and wicked spendthrift, who proved so false to his manhood, and who, like the loathsome spider, wove his web with such subtle skill around the innocent object of his passion, finds himself foiled at last, and reaps a terrible harvest." "A novel of rare power and ability."--Observer. Among the new novels, one of the best is ' One-and-Twenty.' "-E-aminter. ' It is a long while since we have met with so original a tale, or one so true to nature: true in the lessons which it teaches, as well as in the picture which it draws; and we need not say how much higher and rarer is the former gift."--John Bull. JESSIE CAMERON. BY THE LADY RACHEL BUTLER. Octavo, paper covers, 25 cts. Tne following are selected from the English press: "A book which, when taken in hand, will not be willingly laid down by any novel-reader till he has ended it."--Athenceum. "A delightful story, distinguished for the elegance of its style, and the, pathos and sentimentwith which it abounds. It is entitled to take a high place in the literature of tic- tion."-Poat, "The moral tone of this work is elevated, and many of the passages are of striking beauty. We read it from beginning to end with pleasure."-Press. "Great powerof delineation is the principal characteristic of this worl:."-Spectator. RwI'*,ba          Yt1S     ELOR," R MM 'BY THE AUTHO e eOF *    *   *  B'Y. v  T   :.. ELORE," :            T. A most charming book, of whih, the .TENTH EDITIO. is, now ready. Uniform with "One-and-Twenty." Price 650  ",e' ,     : , ,' ROBERT M. b      W ltT, PUBLISHER,   Copies mailed to any dltascee, postate paltd on reCeipt of price. THE ATTORNEY; E on, TUB QoLrimoni     teOnca of Iftn zAt BY JOHN T. IRVING (NEPHEW OF WASHNGTON IRVING.) One ol., laarge 12mo. Price $1 25. "THE ATTORNEY" was first published in the "Knickerbocker Magazine," In 1841, and in 1842 was issued in book form in two volumes. The work has been out of print several years. The scene of the story is laid in New York city, and the descriptions of places and characters are so graphic and powerful that the subscriber is Induced to republish the work. The author has re-written the introduction, and carefully revised and corrected the wiole work. SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. "The hero is, of course, a villain. What ' Attorney ' upon the pages of a romancer, or the prompt-book of a dramatist, was ever otherwise? He is a schemer in a Nassau street den, who forges a will wherein he is himself executor and legatee, to the disinheriting of a testator's daughter. He is compelled, under the statute, to find two witnesses, and they exist in the persons of two precious rascals, who too often hunt honesty, with an intriguing pettifogger to start the game. After many triumphs, the attorney is compelled to murder one of his witnesses, and attempts it onlyto fail, and discover that there is an original will (of later date than the one he used in his own) which the testator made in a distant city, a few weeks before he returned home to die. The under-plot is equally stirring, and every character is elaborated with the minuteness of one who has profoundly studied and care- fully estimated human nature. The Saxon purity of style and the finish of the rhetoric does no discredit to the author's-name-for his initials to the opening chapter proclaim in John Quod, Mr. John T. Irving, a nephew of the humorist of Sunnyside."-L-trary Worl4, oew York.  , "THE ATTORNEY furnishes its author, a nephew ofWashington Irving, an opportunity of portraying some of the absolute horrors to which law and lawyers are sometimes acces- sory.".--Almerica Curier, PPh1iadelphta, Pa.       -  . "Such a book will be a great relief to those especlally whose daily dutgit is to dive into the mysteries of the common law, and to unravel the intricacies of Chitty's Pleadings."- tepublican, Sawtnnah, Ga. "It is a book in which the mysteries and miseries of the legal profession are portrayed in a graphic style. It is full of fact and fancy, gaiety and gfavity."-Morning P0ost, Pinaburg, Pa.    sv fu o\ f^ta;n  n  '  v ad , o% "   The story of the ilan an{. a tl - My wdobi the dishonest lawyer sought to defraud his client of htf inpt u, torun a tn leinIdenflSleplete with interest, and furnish a masterly delineation of character."--Daily Adwertiser, .Detroit, fich. "To be original Sthovt Abslnrity, adspt*lted without-exaggeration, are not easy achievements-yet, the author o LTA, ua$Bg  .h5 s'iiRetcefA id- doing both, and it will be read with delight b',;!lU who l't adis lasiure nii-oe3yabnd eklltl delineations of cha- racter drawn from all conditlonsoi'tior t I fedlld itltteh'butln'ghod honest English, such as few men indite in these days of rapidity and vapidity of -composition."-o^ohn G. Sawe, Ediator of Sanianeo, Burptnton."-t.-o   6  Address all ortArs to  ^'t -t1    C o r   i  r    
         
       
   
