
    ----CITATION----
        Southworth, Emma Dorothy Eliza Nevitte, (1819-1899). The Curse of Clifton, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7854
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The curse of Clifton, vol. 2 
            
               THE
CURSE OF CLIFTON.

U

t


THE
CURSE OF CLIFTON:
A TALE OF
EXPIATION AND 1~EDEMPTION.
BY MRS. EMMA D. ~. N. SOtTTIIWORTH,
AUThOR OP
THE DESERTED WIFE," "VIRGINIA AND MAGDAIDRNE," "SHANNONDALE,'
"THE DISCARDED DAUGHTER, ETC., ETC., ETC.
IN TWO VOLTJMES.-YOL. II.
PliILADELPHIA:
*    'A. HART, LATE CAREY &amp; HART,
126 CHESTNUT 8T1UI~ET.
1853.


r

CONTENTS.

Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by
DEACON &amp; PETERSON,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

CHAPTER XX..-A DOMESTIC SCENE     -  Page 17
XXI.--IN THE CITY      -      -  27
~XII.-LIFE'S VARIOUS PHASES      37
XXHI.---ZULEIME -  -    -         47
XXIV.-THE CATASTROPHE   -  -
XXV.-"IN PALACE CHAMBERS"     -  76
XXVL-GEORGIA  -                -  95
XXVIk-CATHERINE   -  -         - 106
XXVIIL-WfWTER EVENINGS AT THE FARM 111
XXlX.-THE RETURN -   -     -   - 120
XXX.-BETROTHAL   - '-  -   -  - 130
XXXI. ~THE POISON WORKS  -  -  - 145
XXXII.-DEDICATION  -  -  -  -  - 153
XXXIII.-" THE MEEKNESS OF LOVE"   162
XXXIV.-CATHERINE'S REGENCY  -     179
XXXV.-CATHERINE'S PROGRESS  -  - 188
XXXVL-THE NIGHT JOURNEY  -  -   - 197
XXXVII.-THE GOAL   -  -   -     - 218
XXXVI[I.-CONCLtTS~ON  -             234

5

T. A 4. P. G. Collins, Printer,.

4*


I

THE CURSE OF ~LJFTON.
CHAPTER XX.
A DOMESTIC SCENE.
A light, commodious chamber,
Locking out to the hills, where the shine
Of the great sur~ may enter.-MARY HQWITT.
NEARLY twelve months have passed since the death of Mr.
Clifton. It is October, the most glorious month in the year,
when the gorgeous beauty of nature more than satisfies-
when it enraptured the soul.
I shall introduce you into a chamber, whose three large
windows look out upon the scene of glorious magnificence,
only to be found when mountains, vales and forests wear
their gorgeous autumn livery. It is a very large apartment,
so long and lofty, that the great four-post bedstead, standing
with its head against the upper end, is n3t in the way. At
the lower end of the room, there is an old-fashined fire-place,
where an oak fire is burning. The floor is covered with an
ingrain carpet, of warm, rich hues. The bedstead, lounge
and cushioned chairs are clothed with dark, bright chintz.
The windows are curtained with orange-colored damask,
Mhich give a mellow, autumnal tone to the atmosphere of the
room. The curtains are festooned back, to~ admit the sun-
shine, and the glorious view without.
The lounge is di~awn up to the left of the fire-place, and
Carolyn Clifton, in deep mourning, reclines upon. it. She is
very much changed since we saw her last. There is scarcely
a trace of het disease left-only a few pits scttttered thinly
over the lower part of the chin and throat. IBut she is very,
very fragile, and her thin, white face is almost spectral, in
(17)


contrast with her black dress. Her fair hair has grown out
richer, sunnier in hue than before. It is just long enough to'
turn, in natural, smooth ringlets, that reach to her throat.
And she wears it so. And those bright curls soften and
shade the pearly whiteness of her cheek. The expression of
her countenance has changed also. It wears a subdued,
almost patient air of suffering. She is beautiful, although
now that the roundness and bloom of her cheek are gone,
she' does not think so. She is beautiful, as she lies there
contemplating, with remorseful tenderness, a miniature that
she has drawn fr6m her bosom.
In the cushion chair, on the right of the fire-place, sits
Catherine Kavanagh. She has also changed within the year.
Her form is fuller, rounder, more womanly. Her grave,
almost stern features, have softened into gentleness. Her
voice is softer, and deeper. Its tones indeed are very beauti-
ful, and modulated with every shade of feeling. She wears
her, hair in the same old style, parted over 'the forehead, rip-
pling dQwn in dark, bright wavelets around her cheeks, and
carried behind, and woven with the back hair into a large
plait, and then rolled round and round into a stwcession of
rings-a rich, dark, burnished mass of hair-
"Golden where the sunlight phiyed,
Bitt where the tendrils sought the shade,
Dark, but very beautiful."
Her dress of dark brown stuff, with the little white throat~
ruffle, and the black silk apron, i5 not very becoming to her.
But she thinks too little of her personal appearance , to Care
for any quality in her clothing beyond neatness and comfort.
She is knitting very leisurely, stopping occasionally to mea-
sure the stocking she is engaged upon with the finished one
which lies upon her lap. Kate is silent and thoughtful. All
her life, up to this date, has been passed in the ministry to
sorrow-yes, to all sorts of sorrow-to the suffering arising
from vice-to the despair caused by evil passions-to com-
mon illness-to pestilence forsaken of all but her-to death!
Yes! But little turned of sixteen years of age, and to all
these forms of human misery had she been-not a minister-
ing angel, but a ministering child and woman-that ministry
of sorrow had filled' up all her years, from early childhood,
to this hour. Now her days wcre passed in soothing and
cheering the solitude and depression of her invalid come

panion. And Kate was grave and thoughtful, because she
was tempted to think that life was made up of nothing else
hut trouble. Her hope in happiness beyond her experience
was faint. Her faith was dim. And no wonder. It seemed
time she saw some one else's, happiness, if not her own. It
wa~ hard to pour the words of faith, hope and cheerfulness
into the ear of another, when the fountain in her own heart
was failing. It was only a temporary darkening and failing
of the spirit. A silent, earnest prayer, and all was ~tlear
and strong again. The room was provocative of thought, if
not of pensiveness. It was so still and warm and mellow,
between the fire and the golden sunshine coming softened
through the curtains. And both girls were silent, while
Kate leisurely plied her knitting-needles, and Carolyn con-
templated the miniature. At last Miss Clifton spoke-
"Catherine, look upon that face. Study it. Should you
believe, now, that the owner of that beautiful face could be
unrelenting, unforgiving 'P' And she passed the miniature
to her companion. Kate received it-~--glanced at it. It was
a faithful likeness of Archer Clifton. And those features,
so long unseen, and now suddenly revealed, thrilled with such
electric power to the heart of the girl, that after the first
recognizing glance, she instantly returned it. And though
her heart had paused in its pulsations, and. now throbbed
thick and fast, she answered, calmly-.--
"He is not unrelenting or unforgiving, Miss Clifton."
"Oh! he is! he is! It has been fifteen months since we
parted in anger, and no word or sign from him yet. Oh!
Kate, what do you think of it ~"
"I think he truly loves you, Miss Carolyn.'~
"Oh! he did-he did, but I scorned and insgltedhim, and
it iS past, past!"
~" There is no past tense to real love, lady."
"Ah, Catherine, you speak of what you have had no ex
perience in. My scorn killed his. love."
"Real love i5 immortal, lady, it cannot be killed."
"Ah, child, you speak without knowh~dge."
"Without experimental knowledge, Miss Clifton. And all
the highest truths we have are obtained without experimen-
tal knowledge. I know that true affection is undying, by the
same light that without the Bible shows me that God exists
-that He made all souls, and that all souls are immortal.
It is one of the 'self-evident' truths. Ah, Miss Clifton, true

18~                                                                       THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.             19

9

18


.4

affection can no more be killed by scorn, than an angel could
be overcome by a demon, than Heaven could be conquered by
hell. In the contest between true affection and scorn, it is
affection must conquer-scorn must yield. It must be so,
lady. The heavens are pledged to it. The sovereignty of
the right is-involved in it. And when, in such a contest, af-.
fection fails, it is because it never was true. No, lady, true
affection is never conquered. It is scorn that is conquered.
It is scorn that has yielded now. You do not scorn him now,
lady."
"No-I would I could!"
"Then, in the death of your own scorn see the immortal-
ity of his love. He will come back to you. He will come
back the first free moment that he has."
"Ab, Catherine! In all this fifteen months he has not
written to me."
" You do not know that, Miss Carolyn. I believe that he
has written to you, and that the letter has been lost. You
know how irregular and uncertain the mail is from that
distant frontier."
"Catherine! I have been thinking of writing to him.
What is your opinion ~ What would you advise me to
"Not for the world, lady! For, trust me, for every step
of advance a woman makes, a man of high honor and fine
sensibilities retreats."
Miss Clifton's brow flushed, and she made a gesture of im-
patience, as she exclaimed-
"Then wAy, why knowing that, does he not write ?"
"Because, perhaps, his first letters miscarried; and he
stopped under the supposition that you would not answer him.
And then, lady, under all these circumstances, the stiff pen
and the cold paper cannot convey all the burning words he
would have to pour out at your feet. He will come !"
"'He will come.' Ah! in that very phrase is a knell
deeper than all the rest! life will come! And. what a
spectre he will see in me! He cannot continue to love me!
Impossible! Impossible! He can never love such a faded
and scarred ruin as I am."
"Dear Miss Clifton, I have told you so often that you are
not a ruin! Your face is very lovely, indeed it is! Fair and
delicate and pensive, and far more attractive tQ all good
hearts than ever it was in its high bloom."

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"Ah, but faded-faded-faded !" mournfully replied
~ Carolyn.
"And then, dear lady, true affection is of the soul. It
has been said that love is blind. It is not so. Love has
Divine eyes, and creates the beauty that it looks upon. He
will love you the more for the calamity and sorrows that have
fallen upon you. He will see a deeper beauty in your pen~
sive face, and his love will make it real."
"Oh! impossible, I tell you! Impossible! The sight of
me would shock him. He would turn away."
"Lady, do you love your cousin 'P'
"Love him? .Kh, God !"
"Dear lady, if he had returned from the frontier with the
loss of an arm, a leg, or an eye-or with the hideous scar of
a sword cut across cheek and brow, could you have turned
from him revolted ~"
"Oh, no, no, no! Oh! Heaven, no! I should have
done all I could to convince him that he was beautiful
to mc still-.that I loved him the deeper for his misfor..
tunes !"
"Then, dear lady, judge his noble heart by your own."
"Ah, but you said yourself, just now, when advising me
not to write, that men feel so differently from women !"
"Yes, but not in tenderness-not in constancy!"
"There is the boy coming from the post office, Catherine!
It is strange-it is strange-but though I have been disap-
pointed a hundred times, I still hope, and the coming of every
mail makes my heart pause! Go, dear Catherine, and see
what there is."
Kate rolled up her knitting, and dropped it into a little
straw basket, and went below.
"Only one letter, an' the Pos'-Master say how it war for
Miss Carolyn," said the boy below stairs.
A letter for her at last! Carolyn's heart stopped almost
to death, until Kate ran back up the stairs, entered the room,
and placed the letter in her hands.
"It is from Richmond," she said, in a disappointed tone,
as she opened it.
"From my Aunt~Cabell," she added, and began to read
it while Kate resumed her knitting.
"I hope your friends are all well," said Catherine.
"Yes-" replied Miss Clifton; and then a smile of amuse-
ment flitted over her face-and still running her eye dowD
VOL. II.-2

20             TUE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                                    21

20

21


I

the letter, she continued-" My Aunt CabelI writes me: that
my excellent step-dame, Mrs. Georgia Clifton, is now the
reigning belle of Richmond-the most beautiful woman, the
most charming musician, the ~most fascinating walti~r, and
the most elegant equestrian in the city! She passes for a
wealthy (!) young widow-.-and her credit is unlimited, and
her debts and hot extravagance, of course, unbounded. She
occupies a whole suit of rooms in the most eipensiv~ hotel in
the city, and entertains around her; both day and night, a
host o~ adoring worshipers. She has cut her father-.--worthy
man-dead! She is going to bring down a party of ladies
and gentlemen to spend Christmas at her country.-seat, (!)
White Cliffs. Now what do you think of that, Catherine ~
Pray Heaven she may marry soon, and not wear our name
long enough to- scandalize it! Mrs. Cabell goes on to say,
that Mrs. Georgia cannot long play that game-i--that Archer
Clifton must soon return, and take possession of his property,
when it will be arrested. Alas! she does not know that
Uaptain Olifhn is as much under the dominion of that dan-
gerous woman as it is possible to be. He will probably be
proud to leave Mrs. Clifton in possession here. as long as she
finds it convenient or agreeable to stay. Now, what do you
think of all this, Catherine ~"
"Dear lady, I know that you feel very unpleasantly, that
all those gay city strangers should be coming down here at
-Christmas, to turn the imuiet house into a ball of orgies.
But I do not see how you can prevent it. You can elude it,
Though! You can go to llardbargain, you lcnow, and remain
until Mrs. Georgia and her guests have departed again. Ii
would do that."
"No, dear Catherine, there will be no necessity for that,
either! My Aunt Cabill has anticip4ed ixiy embarrassment,
and proposed a plan. My aunt and all her family are com-
mg-down here to spend the months of October and Novem-
ber, while their city mansion is un4ergoing repairs-paint..
ing, papering, and so on. And she proposes that I shall
return with ~her at the first of December, and pass the Win-
ter in Richmond."
~ And will you go i"'
"I do- not know. But, Kate, dear, you have comforted
me so much, 'and aunt's account of Mrs. Georgia's city airs
has diverted me so much; that IL think I have spirits for a
ride! Go ordar the horses, and tell Dandy to be ready to

-i~liE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

28

attend us. We will go up to Ilardbargain and take tea with
Aunt Clifton, and amuse her with this letter !"
Mrs. Cabell and her daughters, attended by Major Cabell,
arrived in due time, and were received with- great pleasure
by their orphaned relative. And Catherine, now~ that she
was no longer necessary to the cheerfulness of Miss Clifton,
took leave and returned to her brother's cot. Life' in the
mansion, and life in the hut,'like day and night, about equally
divided the girl's experience-a strange lot, to be ever alter-
iiating between luxury and refinement, and poverty and
coarseness. And though it was a wonderfully strengthening
discipline, Kate found -the contrast so painful as to wish
that life would' change-in some way.
A month passed away-during which she heard nothing
whatever from White Cliffs. She was therefore in tot~d
ignorance of what was going on there, until one cold morn-
ing that had succeeded a snow-stormy night, 'while she was
shoveling away the snow in front of the cottage door, 'Daiidy
rode up and delivered 'her a note from Miss Clifton. The
note ran thus:
"DEAR CATH~nINE,-..
"I am going to leave for Richmond with Aunt Clifton to..
morrow morning. Come over, dear girl, and: let me, take
leave of you before; I start. Come, my good, wise Catherine,
for I want to consult you about a certain matter.
"Your friend,'         CAROLYN.'?
Kate saddlc4 her pony and set out, attended by Dandy.
As soon as she arrived at White Cliffs, she was invited im-
mediately up into Miss Clifton's room~ She found the young
lady surrounded with trunks and bandboxes, ai~d busy with
her maids, packing. Carolyn dismissed her' attendants, beg-
ged Kate to be seated, and sat down by her. After a few
mutual inquiries about health and so on, and a little intro-
ductory conversation and some considerable hesitation, Miss
Clifton said-
"Catherine! I think-I hope that I have succeeded at
last in emancipating myself from the degrading slavery of
that old love spell! At last the dread sense of bereavement
and desolation is deadened. - . . . . . If II were

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.


24               THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                          ~L~II'B OURS1~ GF OLtFTOi~.

to see him again, however, I do not know how it might
be.' . . . . Perhaps, though, I shall never see hi~n
again...........Kate! I have had a proposal for mar-
riage. . . . My cousin Major Cabell! . . . . It
was at least generous in him, all things considered
Family feeling, I suppose...........Kate, I think of
accepting him! . . '. . . We owe something to our
position in society. . . . My Aunt Cabell has been
talking to me about it for a month past."
Miss Clifton made this communication in a hesitating,
disjointed manner; while Catherine looked and listened in
grief and astonishment, feeling regret amounting almost to
remorse, that she had left her friend, enfeebled in mind and
body, so long under the influence of a strong-willed
thoroughly worldly-minded woman. And she understood
the instinct that had impelled the wavering girl to send for
her to i~teady her. And then athwart these, her purest eme-
tions, swept a dark, burning impulse, like a breath of hell.
was the whisper of the devil, and it said to hcr,-"Agree.
with her-agree with her! Let her marry another if she
wishes, and thus remove the greatest impediment that sepa-
rates you from the love, the hope of Archer Clifton."
Catherine stood for a moment horrified by the darkness of
the temptation. But then summoning the whole strength
of her soul, she inwardly exclaimed, "Get thee behind me,
satan !" And the devil fled from her.
"You do not answer me, Catherine. My dear girl, I have
so much confidence in your rectitude of mind! Advise
me!"
"Dear Miss Clifton, never, as you value your whole life's -
peace. and rectitude-never, for any purpose wbatever-un-
der any temptation whatever-consent to marry a man you
do not love; never, as you hope for earthly content-as you
trust in God-never put an insurmountable object between
yourself and one you love! How criminal to become a wife,
while you love another living man! How terrible to find
out, when it is too late, that he loves you still! Perhaps
from year to year to long for the-! Lady, I have no wdrds
strong enough to express to you all that I feel and fear on
this subject! Grave faults sometimes follow little errors!
I would fain gain your promise not to entertain any gentle..
man's, suit until you have met again with Captain Clifton!
You cannot have long to wait. Ho must return to' settle up

this estate. And legal business, if nothing else, must bring
you together !"
"Alas! alas'! no! the affairs of this property will be set-
tled by his attorney. Kate, I am very miserable !"
"Pear lady, I know' it! 'IDe not, when tempted by hope-
lessness, do that which you may regret all your life! That
which may shut out the possibility of liap~iness forever! I
wish I could go t&amp;'Richniond with' yolx."'
"'Oh, I wish you could! I think thali you' could' save me
from danger, Kate."
"I think you want an honest fri~n&amp; near you, Miss Clif.~
ton! But, one thing you ean do-you e~am resolve not to
form any matrimonial engagement until? you have again' met
with Captain Clifton. And you can bind your resolution by
a promise. Promise me, dear lady, by the interest I take in
you, to hold yourself free from entanglements, until you see
your cousin!"
"Kate !-yes, I solemnly promise you, by alil I hold sa-
cred, that' I will do as you advise in this matter! And,
Kate, enfeebled asI am, or may become, in mind or body, I
cannot 'break' my pledged word! Good girl! You have
saved me again! Oh, Kate! Kate! do you~ think I don't
know the full extent of your disinterestedness ~ Oh, Kate!
noble girl! God reward you !"
Catherine began to tremble so violently, that Miss Clifton
threw her arms around her, and pressed her to her bosom,
whispering,
"Never fear, dear girl! sweet girl! I will not breathe
another word! I would as soon sacrilegiously snatch the
veil from the sanctuary, as breathe another word about it !"
When Catherine reached home in the afternoon, she found
a message waiting her, from Mrs. Clifton, of Hardbargain.
She went up immediately to the farm-house, and'found that
lady looking very happy.
"Catherine, my dear, sit down. I have good news. 'I have
3ust received a letter from Archer. He will be in Richmond
in four days from this! But his duties are such that he will
not be able to leave Richmond for some weeks. He begs
me to meet him there! He has been promoted, Kate! He
is now Major Cliftoii, and has been appointed aid-de-eamp to
the GoVernor !"
2*

4

I

24


26             THE CURSE 01" CLIFTON.                                                               27

"I am rejoiced to hear it, madam," replied Kate, calmly,
though her heart stood still with the suddenness of this
news. "You will send over and inform Miss Clifton, will
you not, madam ~"
"No, I think not, Catherine. Why excite and disturb
her on the eve of a journey ~ Besides, Catherine, I have
many. misgivings! This long persistence in silence-his
never mentioning her name in any of his few letters to me!
his never replying to the letter I Wrote upon the subject!-
all this is foreboding! I must not meddle farther in this
affair until I have seen my son, and can judge his state of
mind in regard to it!............. But, Catherine,
my dear, I sent for you for this: I am going to Richmond
on Tuesday, for the purpose of spending some weeks near my
son. I need a female companion, and I have your~grandfa-
ther's and your brother's consent for you to accompany me;
that is, if you are willing. Will you go with me, Kate 2"
"I shall be very glad to do so, indeed, Mrs. Clifton !" said
the young girl.
"Then return home at once, Kate, and prepare for the
journey. You will have a great deal to do, to make things
comfortable for your grandfather and brother during your
absence, and to get yourself ready for your. city visit.

THE CURSE OF VLIFTQN.

- CHAPTER XXI.
INTHE CITY.
In a proud city and rich-
Acity fair and old,
Filled with the world's most costly things,
Of precious stones and gold;
Of silks, fine wool, and spiceries,
And all that's bought and sold.-MARY HeWITT.
ON her arrival at Richmond, Mrs. Clifton engaged for her~-        Li
self and Catherine two rooms-a chamber with two beds,
and a neat adjoining parlor-in a quiet, retired ~boarding-
house.
Miss Clifton was the guest of Mrs. Cabell, in the most
fashionable quarter of the city. Captain Clifton had not yet
arrived, btit was daily expected. Richmond was in the com-
mencement of the fashionable season, and was already quite
full of gay company. Every evening witnessed some one or
two grand balls, or great private parties. The theatres and
the concert rooms were in full operation. But no faint echo
of all these various forms of revelry came to the sequestered
neighborhood that Mrs. Clifton had chosen for her retreat.
No news of the fashionable world reached her, except con-
stant bulletins of Mrs.,Georgia Cliften's progress through
society. She was one of' those city celebrities whose sayings
and doings are the exciting topic of all classes. Where she
went, and what she wore, and when she rode out. Whom
she cut directly, whom she smiled upon, whom she slighted,.~
and whom she received, were the most interesting subjects
of discussion. The Belle of the Rappahannock, the Dark
Ladye, the Gipsy Beauty, were some of the many names sh~e
had won. All theae matters were freely and lightly com-
mented upon in Mrs. Clifton's presence, by gentlemen board-
ers, who knew nothing whatever of that lady's connexion
with the reigning toast of Richmond. Mrs. Clifton rested
two days 'before calling upon Mrs. Cabell and her family.
Miss Clifton expressed almost. as much surprise as ~lcasure       I

T

27


28'              ~rIIE CtrRSE OF CLIFTO~.                                       TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.              29

at the sight of her aunt, but forebore to question her motive
in coming so suddenly to the city. Perhaps Carolyn had
heard a rumor of Major Clifton's preferment and expected
arrival, and for that reason was silent. Mrs. Clifton never
named the subject during her infornial call. At taking leave
she left her address, and informed her niece that Kate
Kavanagh was in ~town with her. Carolyn expressed much
pleasure at hearing this, and promised to call very soon.
The very next day Mrs. Cabell came in her carriage, and in-
vited and urged Mrs. Clifton and her prot~g~ to return with
her, and make her house their home during their sojourn in
Richmond. After some hesitation and reflection, Mrs. Clif~.
ton, accepted the invitation, and promised to go over the next
day. The next morning, therefore, Mrs. Cabell sent her
carriage to convey Mrs. Clifton and. Catherine. They were
received by Mrs. Cabell with great politei~iess and emyresse-
ment, ana conducted by thatiady herself into two large and
luxuriously furnished, chambers, connected with each other,
where they found a neat, pretty mulatto girl, ready to wait
upon them-for Mrs. Cabell, with all her hard wordliness,
was truly kind and hospitable.
The evening of the succeeding day was the appointed time
tor the Governor's first reception. 'Mrs. Cabell and her
family were going, of course. And Mrs. Clifton resolved to
go-not for her own sake, hut for that of Catherine, whom
she had determined should see all that was to be seen during
her stay in the metropolis. A somewhat haughty surprise
elevated the handsome black eyebrows of Mrs. Cabell, when
she found that Mrs. Clifton intended to take her demo'i~eli&amp;
du compagnie, but. she was far too well bred to express it in
any other manner. . And as for Mrs. Clifton, she always did
whatever she -thought proper to do, in the coolest, calmest,.
most matter-of-course manner, without the slightest regard
to other people's weaknesses and follies~ You know, besides,
that she was a thorough republican. And Mrs. Cabell re-
membered that the public' reception at the gubernatorial
mansion was a sort of omnizsm gathenim, where all who be-
haved themselves night conie-from the oldest Major-Gene-
ral of the army to the shoemaker who made his boots. And
again, x~o one in Richmond knew who the girl really was.
All these things had Mrs. Cabell to recall to mind 'before she
could reconcile herself to the idea of Kate's being of the
party9

When the night and the hour arrived, several gentlemen,
beaux of the Misses Cabell, came to escort the ladies. Major
Cabell attended his cousin Carolyn and one of his sisters.
Judge Cabell took charge of his wife and eldest daughter.
Mrs. Clifton had hoped that her son would have reached the
city in time to have escorted herself and Catherine. When
they were all assembled in the parlor, Major Cabell brought
a gentleman up to Mrs. Clifton, whom he presented as Colo-
nel Conyers, of the army, leaving to Mrs. Clifton the respon..
sibility of presenting the aristocrat to the plebeian Kate. Mrs.
Clifton did it at once, in the most natural way in the world.
And the gallant Colonel, after a few. compliments, hoped to
have the honor of waiting upon Mrs. Clifton and her "lovely
charge" to the Mansion House. Mrs. Clifton gratefully
accepted his services-and soon after, they entered the car-
riage, and' were driven off. This party reached their desti-
nation a full half hour before Mrs. Cabell and family, and
other ultra fashionable, who fancied that it was vulgar to go
early, and imagined that their ton depended upon late hours
and other observances. Mrs. Clifton was very plainly dressed,
in a black satin with a lace scarf-Catherine very simply, in
a white crape, with a scarlet geranium twined in her black'
hair. A moment in the cloak-room sufficed to' re-arrange
their simple. toilet. They were then conducted into the
saloon. This apartment was fitted up in a somewhat differ-
ent style to those of the present day. 'It was illuminated by
three large hanging. chandeliers, holding innumerable wax
candles; and warmed by two enormous coal fires, one at
each extremity.' It was already well filled with a miscella-
neous company. After their presentation to the Governor,
Colonel Conyers inquired whether they chose to joir~ the
promenade or to take seats. Mrs. Clifton preferred the lat-
ter, and their polite escort conducted them to a side sofa,
from which. they could note the entrance of fresh guests, and
watch the great circle of promenades going round and round
in one long elliptic, three or four persons deep, in the most
stupid, treadmill monotony conceivable. Very much inter-
ested and amused wa~ our simple country girl, in taking ob-
servations of the various characters passingg in review before
them. Here mould be a dowager of sixty, in rouge, ring-
lets, bare arms and a gossamer dress; here' a girl of seven-
teen, in a black, stiff brocade and heavy headdress. Here
comes a stately, broad-chested, senatorial-looking man-lie

2&amp;

29


80             ~JHE CURS~0P CLIFTON.                                    THE CURSE OP OLIFTO~.            SI

looks the incumbent of some high, official place-lie is the
master tailor, of street. iHere comes a red-headed,
red-faced, sharp-featured little man, very quick and impa-
tient in his motions, and very high in his voice-he looks
like an auctioneer or a constable-.-.he is the great General
of the United States Army. Here is a smsil, dowdy
woman, all fuss and flowers, like a barn-house actress-she
is the wife of the late Gov~wnor . This is a queenly
woman! tall, stately, dignified, with a fine, royal counte..
nance. Pooh! Don't ask who she is-she is the c~ leading
lady" at the city theatre-plays in all the heavy tragedies,
but is not even a star. There, apart, watching and reflect..
ing~upon the scene, stands a grave-looking individual, in a
closely-fitting black suit, and closely-cropped black hair, and
set, sallow, saturnine face, looking like an undertaker at a
funeral-doubtless some famous preavher~.-though so niiser-
able a messenger of the glad tidings cannot be imagined.
Preacher, indeed! Why, he is H----., the low comedian~
and he wears ~his hair cropped that way by reason of the.
~nany different sorts of wigs he has to wear in his different
impersonations. To-night, he happens to be off the boards,
and enjoys the recreation of sadness and gravity. Ak! here
is a debonnair gentleman! all life! a laugh and jest, or a.
smile and a bow for every one. Is he .a French dancixig-
master ~ No-he is the Rev. Mr. , the most pDpular
preacher of the day. Yet these were not all. There was a
small proportion of really well-dres8ed and dignified women,
and stately, honorable men.
"How do you like the scene, Catherine iP' a~ked Mrs~
Clifton.
Kate laughed-~--then replied-
"I am somewhat disappointed, but very much more di-
verted! It seems to me so strange that people should look,
dres~ and behave so very inappropriately! and, that~ they
could. possibly be se very ill-dressed and dowdy at such a
great expense~ I expected sQmethlng very rechereh~ and
eleganV in the saloon~of'the~Governor's mansion. But '~ot-
ley is the only wear~!'"
The officer laughed, g~yly, and then observed-
"Why ~ Why did you look for something, or rather, ~'or
everything recherch6 ar~d elegant in this crowd ~ Because
you se~ in the newspaper; reports of such gatherings~ such
phrases as 'the beautifulMis A~-.-----~ '~'-by-the-w&amp;y, there

she is-the young lady with the red hair, milk-white coin-
plexion and little eyes; or 'the elegant Mrs. B V 'the
graceful Mrs. C V etc., etc., etc., with revised and
improved accounts of their costume, appearance, manners,
etc. ~ Miss Kavanagh, when you have stayed in the city
longer, you will know that when a newspaper reporter and
letter writer speaks of that dowdy, but wealthy little woman,
in the flimsy, scarlet dress, as 'the beautiful, elegant, and
accomplished Mrs. G ,' and tells of 'the immense
(imaginary) sensation' she made-he, the reporter, is morally
certain of an invitation to her private parties."
Kate did not like his sarcastic tone, but before she could
make any sort of reply, her attention was called to a ri~ng
excitement in the room. lEvery gentleman, from the fid-
getty little Major General, down to the grave and dignified
low comedian; and every lady, from the ex-Governor's fussy
widow, to the stately and self-possessed stock actress, were
on the qui vive. Kate, wThle listening and watching for the
cause of the excitement, caught a few phrases that helped to
enlighten her-they were of this sort :-" A wonder! a perfect
wonder! A miracle of dark beauty.." "The wealthiest woman
jn the state, but that is nothing to her marvelous beauty?'
"Did you see her as 'Egypt,' at the fancy ball V' "Her
portrait, in oil, by -, stands in Stationers' Hall. It has
attracted crowds." "No-I have seen the engraving from
it in 'Beauty's Annual' for this year. But I have also seen
it on the -tops of cigar boxes-too bad !" "ilush! here she
comes !".
Catherine turned her eyes in the direction towards which
all others were gazing. It was Georgia-dark, bright, and
more beautiful and bewitching than ever. Her dress was of
lustrous black crape-de-lise, sprinkled over with gold spangles,
that gleamed in and out through the dark, transparent dra..
pery, suggesting. clear, starlight night. A crowd entered
with the star-bright Circe-a crowd attended her during all
her progress through the room.
We must leave Georgia to her alluring wiles, and Cathe-
rine to her observations, and seek Mrs. Cabell and her party.
They are in the dressing-room, and about to leave it. Only
Mrs. Cabell turns again and again to survey her form in the
mirror, and re-adjust the flow of her purple satin dress, or the
wave of her white ostrich plumes. When all is done, she
turns for the last time to Carolyn, to rebuke her for not add-

IF

N     ~
f

I

IN' N
'4
41 ~4


THE CURSE 013' CLIFTON.

ing a single ornament to her mourning dress of black velvet,
which is relieved only by the falls of fine Brussels lace on
the neck and arms, and the sunny ringlets falling all around
her head as low as the throat. '~ Carolyn looks very fragile,
but interesting and' lovely, though she does not know it.
Major Cabell gave his right arm to his mother, and his left
to his cousin, and so, as it was now the acme of the fashion-
able hour, they entered the' saloon, and made their slow pro-
gress up to' the upper end, where the Governor and staff
stood, to receive all comers-Mrs. Cabell bowing and smiling
to such acquaintances as she chose to recognize in passing,
until at length they stopped. A feeling of false shame, a
xn*id notion that all eyes were upon her, and scrutinized
the few pits hidden under the golden curls on her temples,
had caused Carolyn to cast her eyes down, and keep them
down, during the whole progress through 'the room-and
though' her acute ears heard such murmurs as these-" Row
fair she is," "But how fragile, as if a zephyr would blow her
away "-she never fancied' they were breathed of her, and
never surmised the admiration she elicited. "Governor
T , Miss Clifton, of (Jlifton," were the words that ad'.
inonished Carolyn she was standing before the great man,
and must look up and curtsy. She curtsied before she
looked up, and when she ~raised her eyes, she saw only Archer
Clifton before her, who bowed when he met her glance! The
Governor'and many others were there, but how could she see
any one but Archer Clifton! But, oh! the perversity of
human nature! As soon as she met his eyes~ all the pride
and scorn of'her proudest, most scornful days, returned upon
her with' a vengeance-all the more fiercely, ferocidusly, that
she believed herself a fright, and found Archer Clifton hand-
somer, more dignified, higher in favor with God and man than
ever! Major Cabell was about, to pass on instantly with his
ladies, to give place to the 'next arrivals. Returning Archer
Clifton's bOw with i~ haughty bend, she threw up her head
and'swept~on with the most superb air of arrogance'imagina~-
ble. They joined the pronuenaders-.-Carolyn all the' more
unhappy for her show of hauteur-the heart beneath that
erected. head and' expanded chest almost breaking with cha-
grin. Captain, now' Major Clifton, stood at the right hand
of the Governor, with his 'eyes roving calmly over the mis-
cellaneous assembly, until they chanced to rest upon the
stately form of his mother when they lighted up with sur-

11

I
I
~1

TIRE O4JR5E 013' CLIFTON.          33
pri~e and pleastire, and excusing himself from his official
~attendance, he bowea rand withdrew, to hasten to the distant
sofa, where she sat a~one. Catherine,, on the arm of Colonel
Conyers, was lost in the slowly revolving crowd of promena-
ders. Re reached Mrs. Clifton's side, and-
K" My dearest mpthei~!"                     ~-'~   be-
9 My dear Ar~her !"' were the         excu~ngeu
tween them with the clasped hands.
"Row delighted III am to s~e you, yet how ,tantali4ng to
meet you in tht~ public assembly, after~ so long an absence !"
"When did you reach the city, Archer ~"
"Within the last half-hour! Raving important disp~tch~s
for the Governor, I came at once hither."
"I did not see you enter."
'F ~ came in by the private entrance, and joined his excel-
lency's circle directly. But, my dearest mother I scarcely
hoped you would be in toui~n-how long have you been here !"
"About four days, Au~cher."
Suddenly both became grave and thoughtful-they were
occupied&amp; with the same thonghts-~-.-of the calamities that bad
befallen mutual friends since their, last parting. They were
silent-they did not like to sadden this first meeting by ire-~
ferring to the mournful subjt~ct. And before either knew, of
her approach, Mis.. Georgia had glided swiftly and silently
up to them. NQW, Mrs. Georgia had.. passed a~td repassed
Mrs. Clifton a score of times that evening, without once no-,
ticing her. But now that archer Clifton ~at by h~sm9ther's
side, the Circe appeared before them, dark, resplendent,~
alhwing as~, ever. She. was leaning upon tl~e arm of the
Liqutenaut.Governor. 'Archer Clifton sprang up i~ume-,
diately, and greeted her with surprise an~ pleasure. iDismiss-'
ing herescort with a oharn~ing smile and ~rave, of, the hand,
she sank graceftilly, lauguis~in'gly into the~'seat' by ~he side
of Mrs. Clifton, and glided into. ber own fascipat.ing ~tyle of
conversation.. After &amp;fe~ minutes', Archer Clifton seemed~
quite lost to everything else, in the charm of the syren's.
society, until a certa~p, SWeet, enticing restl~ssness qn ,the
part of the beauty, ~uggeste4: to him the propriety of inviting.
her to promenade.. She. aro~e with a bewildering smile, that
quite drove his mother out of "his heads and slipped~her, arm,
through his. They joined the promenades. In [the mean-
time, Kate Kavanagh, on the ~rnvof Cokrnel, Conyors, was
moving around in the same circle, highly amused in ~m~I~ing
VOL. U.-3


M              THE CURSE OF CLfl'TON.                               XHE CURSE O~CLIFT0N.           '35

observations, and scarcely appreciating the sincere admiration
of her eCcort, that was apparent to every one else, especially
to the dorr~esp6r~dent of the Fiddle-de.~dee, who, in his next
letter', in giving an account of the reception, made an item of
* the manifest admiration of the gallant and distinguished
Colonel C , for the beautifi4 and accomplished Miss
K-~----~--. Cathei~ine at length thought that her kind pa-
troness might be lonely~ and expressed a wish to i'ejoin her.
In turning to retrace their steps; they met face to face with
Archer Clifton and his companion. Major' Clifton recognized
the poor mountain' girl in that saloon, With' a' look of super-
cilious surprise, and Mrs. Georgia looked 'calmly through her
IU~ without seeing her at all. With a slight bow, Major
Clifton passed o~i with his companion. 'And as for Kate, her
heart had a habit of ~t~nding perfectly still in an emergency,
and now it had stopped so suddenly, and stood still so long,
that she' was cxi the verge of fainting.
"You ~are, not well. You are wearied. You have re-
i~ained' on your feet too long. Let me take you to a seat,
Miss Kavanagh," said the~ Colonel. With a 'gasp and a
shiver, Kate recovered and rejoined Mrs. Clifton. And sheper-
mitted' herself to fall into no more weakness that night. But'
Kate had unconsciously betrayed her secret 'to the officer.
And by the interference of her good angel, this knowledge
thus obtained, enabledd ~Colonel Conyers to do Kate a' service
of vital iinpo~'tanee'in' after years.
"Archer is come," sai&amp; Mrs. Clifton, as Catherine took
her seat.      '.    '
"' I ~know it. 'I met him," repJied Catherine,. and both'
fell, into silence, for at that instant Major Clift~on and the
beautiful Georgia passed them. And from that time, and so
long as they sat ~there, agaiti and again in the'slow revolving
of the great circle 'of promenaders, the pair passed and re-
passed th~m-..Georgia smiling, cooing, murmuring, jn' her
low 'alhP~ig niiisic-.and' Archer 'Clif~ton, bending over her
wjtti his brilliant gray 'eye's, feeding, 'on' her ,lovely face,
eeemin~ to' sink deeper and deeper 'into then batho8 of her
~harins,,while Carolyn turned sick wfth'jealo~isy, and Cathe-
rine' f~int~with dread, and tWe correspondent of ~the Fiddle-
tie-dee made a note 'of'th'e distingiAshed favor with which the
most beautiful ~ the reigning belle of Richmond,
r~cAived" th~ devdirs of her 51i'stant relative, the celebrated
~%~jov~ '0 '~ K " 'Pear' nothing,' Carol~n, or Catherine,

Archer Clifton is not in love with his uncle's' widow-tbat
very relationship would repel the idea, if nothing else. But
he is not indifferent to the, honor of monopolizing the reign-
lug queen of the ton.
"Aunt Cabell," said Carolyn, "I cannot sit up longer. I
must go home.
'And Mrs. Cabell consented to. gratify her wish. In fact
it was growing late, and the ultra'.fashionables, the last to
come, and the firs1~ to leave, were beginning to disappear.'
Mrs. Georgia unwillingly discovered this fact, but she thought
that at least she could adroitly secure ~the services of her
companion as an escort home, and 'detain him to any ho in
'the little paradise of' her own boudoir.', She 'therefor -
pressed herself euxinied, and entreated Major Clifton to -
duct her to the cloak-room. He attended her thither. And
there he met again his Cousin Carolyn. She' lookeil so fair,
so wan, so fragile, that he could not for a moment take his
eyes from her. He hastily adjusted the mantle' over the
shoulders of Georgia, handed her her muff and hood, and
excusing himself for a moment, hurried back to his. mother's
side.
"You have company home, madam, have you not V~
"Certainly, Areher. I should not be here without
such a provision-here comes Colonel ~Conyers now to at-'
tend us,"
"Good-night, then! I will see you early to-morrow!
Good-night, Kate !" He was off.
Mrs. Cabell and Carolyn, leaning on Major Cabell's arms,
reached' their carriage door. The Major dropped his cousin's"
arm a moment to ~assist his mother in, and to settle her in
her seat. And during that ~moment Carolyn felt~an arm
passed arQund her waist, and a voice whisper-
"Carolyn-my beloved cousin! my bride! am I for-
given'?"
She burst into tears and dropped 'her proud head on 'hip
bosom, e~elaiming-.-. '
"Oh, Archer! am I forgiven'?"
He placed her iu the carriage, and springing in past Major
Cabell, took the seat by her side, leaving the Major to
follow as he could, and forgetting the very existence of Mrs.
Georgia.
Kate was close to them-she saw and heard it all. Nod..
ding her head slowly several times, she murmured-

I

35


86             TIfl~ CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                     THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.           87

" Thank God. Thank God! Oh, Merciful Father, help
1~n~ to say that sin~erely. Thank God !"
Three weeks after this they were married. The ceremony
was performed in the ancient church of St. John's on Rich-
mond Hill-one of the oldest places of worship on the whole
continent. Mrs. Cabell would willingly have made this event
the occasion of a great deal of .ostentatious display; bui the
recent afflictions in the family, and the fragility of the bride,
rendered other arrangements necessary. Therefore, imme-
diately after the ceremony, which came off at an early hour
of the morning, the newly-married couple, taking advantage
o    e very fine weather, departed for Norfolk, with the in-
n of sailing thence to Havana, where, by the advice
of an eminent physician, for the re-establishment of the bride's
health, they purposed to spend the winter.
Mrs. Georgia Clifton; with all the other members of the
family~ connection, had, of course, been present at the mar-
riage. And no one was so lavish ,of smiles, tears, caresses,
and congratulations, as the dark-eyed syren. But when all
wa~ over, and the bridal pair had departed, refusing the in-
vitation of Mrs. Cabell to go home and dine with a party of
friends, ~he hurried to her lodgings, pushed epen the door
of her luxurious boudoir, fastened it on the inside, and threw
herself down, rolling over, tearing at the carpet, and gnash~.
ing her teeth in an agony of disappointment, jealousy and
impotent rage~
But not long did the Circe of Richmond yield herself up
to anguish and despair. Christmas was approaching, when
she was expected to entertain a select number ~of her wor~
shippers at White Cliffs. It was expedient that ~he should
go ~down a few days in advance of' the party, to' make ready
for their reception. Therefore, about five days. after the
marriage, she left the city.
NIrs. Clifton remained a week longer in town, to give
Catherine an opportunity of attending a course of lectures
on Moral Philosophy. And their escort every evening was
Colo~iel Conyers.

CHAPTER XXII.
LIFE'S VARIOUS PHASES.
W h ~,let the s1rh~ken deer go weep,
The hart ungalled play,
For some x~iust watch while some may sleep,
So rims the world away.-SuAKsr~~Aa~.
IT was always Mrs. Clifton's rule to spend Chtistwas at
home-so she arranged to leave Richmond ~on the twenty-
third. It was three o'clock on the dark, cold, winter moi'n-
ing, that the stage eall&amp;d for them. Our travelers were
muffled up to the ears in hoods, cloaks, shawls and 'furs, and
when they entered the coach, they seemed to fill up all the
back. It was so' dark that they1 could see nothing, and the
stage seemed to be vacant of other passengers than them~
selves; until Mrs. Clifton, settling her own outer ~garments,
spoke, cautioning Catherine ~to fold 'her cloak carefully about
her. Then another voice spoke, from the opposite seat, ex-
clainAng, in a tone of si~rprise and pleasure-
"Why, is it possible! 'Mrs. Clifton and Miss Kavanagh '?"I.'
"Yes, Colonel Conyers, and 'I am as much pleased as sur-'
prised to find you here! How comes it that we are fellow
travelers 'i" said the lady, placing her own in his o~ered
hand.
"And how do you do, Miss Kavariagh ?.-.really, I aui so
overjoyed to find you here! Why, you must know, my dear
Mrs. Clifton, that I have been due at White~Cliffs for several
days. I am, in fact,4he laggard of a party.-.~but in truth
I could not tear myself from Richmond, while you an&amp;,Miss
Kavanagh remained~ But last night, after taking leave of
you, as I supposed, for some length of time,-..under great
depression of spirits, ]~Iiss liavanagh,-I sent and hada place
taken in this stage, for L------.,'which I understand to be
the nearest stage station to White Cliffs. Why, how~ little
did I suspect that we were to travel by the sam~ coach!


9.9
91
,1
V

89

Truly, 'life is full of paper walls.' .A word dropped by either
of us, last night, would have revealed the fact to the other!
But how delighted I am, Miss Kavanagh! And may I hope,
Mrs. Clifton; that our journey lies for some distance together~"
"For the whole distance, I am happy to say. The plan..
nation of White Cliffs and the farm of Hardbargain join.
Our journey terminates at L------."
"Really! Why this is excellent! So, instead of being
separated, we shall travel all the way together, and then con..
tinue to be neighbors for some weeks! Miss Kavanagh, I
am overjoyed."
ere was not much traveling at that season of the year,
party of three had the coach to themselves, and Colonel
Conyers devoted himself with great assiduity to the comfort
of the ladies.
At the end of the second day, just as the level beams of
the setting sun were gilding all the village windows, the stage
~rolkd into L
There, before the little tavern door, waited Mrs. Clifton's
old-fashioned carriage.
"Did you notify the family of White Cliffs of your in-
tended arrival here to-day ~?" asked Mrs. Clifton, of Colonel
Conyers.
"No, madam! My journey was resolved upon so sud-
denly-out of 'my grief and my impatience' at the supposed
loss of your own and Miss Kavanagh's society-that I had
rio time to write."
"Ah! that is the reason why their carriage is not waiting
for you. Colonel Conyers, if you will take a seat with us to
Hardbargain, and rest for a few hours or a few da~ys as you
'plea'~e, we shall be very glad, and we shall furnish you with
a conveyance to White Cliffs whenever you wish to go.
Colonel Conyers expressed himself but too happy to accept
Mrs. Clifton's invitation, atid they all entered the old-fash-
ioned cai~riage, and set out for Ilardbargain~ The farm was
nine miles distant, and the road the very roughest, even of
xnountain turnpikes. Colonel Conyers ventured to wonder
how 'any carriage could stand it, and surmised that R-
County must be blessed with the best wheelwrights in the
world-to which Mrs. Clifton replied that they had the very
best to be met with anywhere.
It wa~ ten o'clock at night when they reached Hardbar-
gain,~but they found the hall lighted up; fires blazing in the

*
"'9
9r~

parlor, and the dining-room, and a substantial supper waiting
for the order of the mistress. The farm-house looked cheer-
ful, hospitable, and inviting; and Colonel Conyers rubbed
his hands in delight, lie remained over night. The next
day was Christmas, and nothing but the binding engagement
to render an account of himself to the beautiful Georgia at
least 13y Christmas, could have forced him to White Cliffs that
day. He accepted Mrs. Clifton's cordial invitation to come
over often while he remained in the neighborhood. In fact,
Mrs. Clifton had seen that Colonel Conyers was very much
pleased with Catherine, and she felt desirous 'that he should
have an opportunity of winning the affections of her fa site.
Colonel Conyers took the largest advantage of Mrs. Cl ,, s
hospitality, and not even the charms of the syren of Whi~e
Cliffs, could wile him away from his daily evening ride over
to Hardbargain. And so, after a few weeks-.-as\there is no
accounting for tastes, and as the most extraordinary things
sometimes really do happen-it turned out that' Colonel Con-
yers actu~dly did lay his heart, hand and fortune 'at the feet
of' th~ humble girl whom his own subordinate officer, Captain
Clifton, had despised, and, furthermore, that he 'was rejected
by her! Yes! gratefully, kindly, but firmly and finally re-
jected! And full of disappointment, humiliation and sor-
row, the gallant Colonel abruptly concluded his visit, and
returned to town.
"Oh, 'Catherine, my dear, if you could but have liked
him well enough to have married him.i He is an honest,
kind-hearted man," said Mrs. Clifton, with a sigh of regret.
"Yes, he is a good man., Heaven bless' him with 'a good
wife," answered Kate.
Neither of these unworldly women once reverted to the
advantages of rank resigned with.the rejected loyer.
And scion Catherine had' other thoughts and occupations
than 'those connected~ with courtship find marriage. The
situation of her grandfather demanded all her care. For
many months before this, the 'long and persevering efforts of-
the patient girl had been blessed with success, and the old
man had abandoned the use of intoxicating spirits.. But
within the last few weeks the total disuse of the stimulant to
which he was morbidly accustomed, had began to produce
the most dangerous effects upon his aged and infirm fi~ame.
Tie grew weaker and still ~4ieaker, until at length he was
confined to his bed. And' so' h~ slowly sank and failed, a~

38                THE CURSE O~' OLIFTON.                                 THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.


~THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.

weeks-weary week~-ilragged on to months. And through
all this dreary time, da~~ and, night, Catherine faithfully
nursed him. Many a night she sat the only watcher by his
bedside, hourly expecting his cV3ath; and many a morning
he revived again, so deep a hold had life upon that old, worn
body. Scarcely ~r necessary fooa 'or rest would Catherine
leave him, always watching, Waiting on and cheering him;
sometimes-whenever he desired it-reading the 'Bible to
him, singing or praying with him. In vain Mrs. Clifton,
noticing the care-worn, toil-worn, emaciated countenance
of the girl, besought her to take care of her own health.
Catherine cared for nothing on earth so much as the aged
aily fading away from her sight. And so passed 'the
Wnter. And so opened the spring. And then his old
disease, if it could be called a disease, took a most alarming
turn. After ~a paroxysm more violent than ever had come
on him before, he fell into a state of greater prostration.
And 'the physician hastily summoned, declared that another
such attack would be 'fatal, and that only the use of brandy
could ward the fit off, 'and save his' life. Carl Wetzel replied
that he felt'if he~should taste the intoxicating liquid again,
the fatal appetite for alcohol would return upon him with
tenfold violence for the temporary abstinence, and that it
would totally subject him to its dominion. The doctor
called him a fool and a fanatic, without self-control or self-
reliance, and left him to his fate. 'When the physician had
left the hut, the old man called his grand-daughter to his
bedside.
"Kate, you heard .what the doctor said ?"
Kate nodded-her heart was too full for speech.
"My dear child-my dear; gQod Kate !-~he says that
unless I drink brandy I shall die. But, Kate, if I taste
brandy again, I feel I shall live-a drunkard! Kate, I
kncw you are wise and good beyond your years. Kate, 'I
'have 'full faith in you! My child, I will do as' you 'decide
for me. Darling, shall I drink or die V'
Kate sank upon her knees by his bedside, took both his
venerable hands and kissed 'and pressed them to her bosom,
bowed her face over theni~. and wept in silence. 'At last,
raising her head, she gazed earnestly, reverently, lovingly in
the old man's face, and answered-
"Dearest~ grandfather, do not ask me, a poor, weak, erring
girl! Dearest grandfather, ask God !"

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

41

The old man feebly raised his hand, and placed it on her
head and blessed her, adding--.
"I thank Thee, oh, Father! that out of the mouths of
babes and ducklings Thou hast perfected praise !"
The next morning, when the doctor came, he found the
old man sinking fast, yet clinging as human nature will cling,
to the wish for-the hope of-life.
"Poptor, is there no other way of saving me than that
you spoke of~"
"None, whatever, my good friend; unless you consent to
save yourself by taking alcohol, you must die."
"Then I will die~ !" replied Carl Wetzel.
And within a week from this time the old man died kand
was buried.
After the funeral was over, Mrs. Clifton invited and urged~
Catherine to come and take up her permanent residence at
Hardbargain. There were now no reasons why Catherine
should not, and many why she should, accept this very advan~~
tageous offer.
Her brother Carl was about to bring home a wif&amp;,. after
which he would no longer need Catherine's~ services. And
now that the spring had fully opened, Mrs. Clifton's health,
as usual at that season, failed, and she really needed the
companionship and care of our unprocessed Sister of Charity.
And, therefore, Catherine accepted her proposal, and came
to take possession of the room, Mrs. Clifton had fitted up
for her adjoining her own chamber. It had once been Archer
Clifton's room. That was of no consequence to Catherine
now, however. You need not now be told again that the
girl was a tri.m Christian. She had great faith-.'-.she believed
in miracles, asserting that the days of miracles had not passed
-could ~not pass until the days of~ God's Omnipotence and
man's faith should be passed. When the passion of her
heart was about to become the sin of her ~ou1, she prayed to
God to remove the last vestige of that erring, ill-fated love-,-.
and it was removed-gone! She could think of him; speak
of him, without an altered pulse. She knew that he and his
wife were soon expected at White Cliffs, and she felt tha~t she
would meet them again without any' other emotion ~than
pleasure. On the day of her removal to Hardbargain, 1~Irs.
Clifton said to her-
.*AFact.

40

/
1'
I
~1

i


F

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"Catherine! I see by the Richmond Standard, that Archer
has resigned his post~ in the army."
"It is not possible; madam !"
"Yes, indeed. I was very ~uuch astonished to ~ee it."
"What in the world could have been his motive ?"
"I cannot even form an idea. No motive was assigned in
the paper."
* "And did he never mention his intention to you in any
of his letters?"
~' Never, Kate. But 'indeed, I have not heard from him
for six weeks. I cannot tell the reason why he does not
write. Perhaps his letters have been lost.-the foreign mails
ar~s~o irregular.
"Was he at havana when you heard from him last,
madam ?"
"Yes; Catherine-.-but then he spoke of a speedy return
home. They should have been here long before this time,
or at least, he should have~written to account Icr their~delay.
I send Henny regularly to the p~st-office..--.I have sent her
to day. I hope I may get a letter, though thechances seem
to diminish."
Even while they~ spoke, the girl came in with a letter in
her hand. Mrs. Clifton took it' and 1
"At last,! lit is from              at it, saying-
havana, Catherine, from Archer."
She opened it, and as she read it, her face became very
grave. And having finished, she fell into thought, and
said~-.-
"It is as I feared."
"1 trust there is no bad news, madam ?" said Catherine.
~" You shall hear, Kate," replied the, lady, taking up 'the
letter and reading asfollows;
"HAVANA, May '1; 18.-.-.
"My DEAR MADAM-
"'I have to entreat your forgiveness' for a silence of four or
five weeks~. I know that you will pardon the seeming neg-
lecti ~vhen you are advised of the cause. Every' moment of
my time for the last month ha~ been taken up in attendance
'upon the sick coueh of my~dearest Carolyn. ~Sinee the open..
in~ of' the spring, h&amp;r health; for the last year so fragile, h~s
fearfully failed. I have had the best medical advice to be
found on the island, but her illness has baffled their utmost
skill. They have recommended me to take her to the South

TItE CURSE OF CLIFTON.'

43

of France. In order to do this, I have been obliged to re-
sign my commissiOn in the army. You have doubtless seen
my resignation announced in the papers. 'I suppose the un~
settled business of the White Cliffs estate must also suffer
by my absence at this time. But what is. that-what is any-
thing! all things! in comparison to the health of ftiy beloved
Carolyn! I write in great haste, on the very eve of sailing,
for we go on b4~ard the' Swallow, bound from this port to
Marseilles, to-day.
"With und'4ng respect and affection,
"ARCHER CLIFTON."
"That is very distressing! Alas! then is life 'made up
of nothing but vain desires and blighted hopes-of sorrow~
and sickness and death'?"
~C I knew it would be so, Catherine-that was a secret rea-
son I had for not meddling this last' time in bringing about a
reconciliation between Carolyn and Archer. I have known
for two years past that she was following her mother. All
those Gowers die early of' consumption"
"But, madam, let us hope better things. This sea' voyage
and residence in the South of France, may restore her."
"Never, Catherine. And it was even' cruel in the doctors
to send her there, to die in a foreign land, among strangers.
They had better 'have sent her home to the scenes of her
childhood and youth, where we could have cheered and
nursed her. Catherine, I feel very sad."
The tears were rolling down Kate's face. The fountain
of consolation in her heart was almost dry-and again she
had to lift her 'heart to ~the Divine source of all strength and
light for new faith and hope. Little else but suffering and
sorrow had: the girl seen since she came into the workl.~-andl
no part h~id she filled in life but that of servant, nurse, or
comforter. '
The summer passed with' 'Mr~. Clifton and Catherine in
almost uninterrupted retirement. They heard~ at long inter-
vals, from Major Clifton and his bride, and then the news was
various~ and? unsatisfactory. Sometimes Carolyn was better,
and there~ woi~d 'be a talk of speedy return, and, perhaps,
the very next letter, after a long interval, would speak of a
season of prostration by extreme illness. And about the
middle of the 'autumn, Mrs. Clifton received a letter from
her son announcing their intention of wintering in Lisbon.

42

''1
4'
/
4
4
'A


K
~ ~

The irregular ~arrivals of these bulletins were the most in-
teresting, and nearly the only interesting events of the sum-
mer and autumn, if we except a descent upon White ClifTh
by Mrs. Gcorgia and her friends. The syren, after her re-
turn from a summer tour to the fashionable watering places,
determined to fill up the dull interim before the' commence-
ment of. the season in town, by a visit to her "seat hi
as she persisted in calling White Cliffs. Ac-
cordingly, she made up a party of idle ladies and sporting
gentlemen, and came down to spend September.
Colonel Conycre was among the guests. He renewed his
visits to Hardbargain, and his suit to Catherine-received a
second rejection; and hurried off to town, under the sting oT
mortitication as before. At the first of October, the "city riff-
raff," as the old family servants of Clifton irreverently and
indignantly called the' moneye4 aristocrats, returned to Rich-
mond, whither they were, shortly followed by their beautiful
hostess, to 'prepare for her, winter campaign. From this
time to the middle of December, no event marked the even
tenor of the 'life at Hardbargain. The *inmates had not
lately heard from Major Clifton. It was near Christmas.
In her anxiety to hear from Lisbon,, Mrs. Clifton was in the
habit of sending to L twice a week, when the 'mail
came in, and sitting up till a very late. hour, waiting for the
return of the messenger.
~One evening after' supper, Mrs. ~Clifton and Catherine sat
each side their work-stand, before the fire, awaiting the at-
rival of~ the'.boy who had been dispatched ~to the post-office.
So'often had ~the lady. thue sat and waited, and been disap-
pointed, that hope waxed very faint., ~This time; however,
she was destined' to' have her heart gladdened'by the full'
fruition of hope. About nine o'clock the messenger returned,
and entered. the parlor with ~a packet of~ letters and papers.
The boy's face was lighted up with sympathetic joy, and be
exclaimed, as he handed the bundle-.
"I almos' rid myself~ to death, mistress, I was so glad I
had de letters to bring yer." -
"You have made great haste indeed,~Neddy. Go tell
Ilenny to~ give you. your supper," said the la~.
"Good boy!" said Kate, pressing his little 'sooty hand as
he passed her and went out.
Mrs. Clifton was reading ,a letter from 4rcher. It was
written in a glad, buoyant spirit, and contained the best pos-

44             TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.         45

~sible news. Against all hope, Carolyn's health since her
arrival at Lisbon had steadily improved, and it was now so
far re-established, that they were already looking forward to
their voyag&amp; at the earliest opening of spring. Carolyn had
gained flesh and color as well as health, and strength and
cheerfulness, and was looking far better than she had looked
since his first meeting her again at Richmond. Mrs. Clifton
repeated all this to Catherine, adding-
"It is true, Kate, that none of her family who have per-
ished by her disease ever tried a change of climate, and
although in most cases such a change hurries the p~itient to
the grave, yet, in some instances, it seems to work wonders
in the way of cure; and who knows, if Carolyn is so greatly
benefited, that she may not get over this danger, and if not
positively cured, yet live to a good old age, and die at last
of somethingg else, as I have heard of consumptives doing."'
"I'm so glad !" Catherine sat with herface suffused with
the flush, and her eyes filled with the tears of sympathizing
joy and thanksgiving. After reading and re-reading the
letter, and dwelling on it, and talking of it, Mrs. Clifton
finally unfolded the paper, th~ Richmond Standard, and
rQnning her eyes 'over its columns , suddenly exclaimed-
"Catherine, 'When joys come they o~me not as single
spies but in battalions'-here is excellent news of an old
friend-listen---only two or three lines among the 'items' of
a newspaper column, yet of what great moment to many-
hear." And the lady read :-" At the conclusion of the
recent treaty of peace between this government and the
Shoshonowa Nation, among the prisoners held to ransom was
the gallant Captain Fairfax, supposed to have falleir under
their tomahawks, at the mase~e bear Fort Protection.
This brave but unfortunate officer' is now understood to be
on his way' to the seat of governmentt"
Catherine was positively speechless with joy; only her
clasped hands and- ferveiit countenance revealed what she
felt. In th~ great,' though calm surprise and rejoicing~ over
the event, these friends forget its singularity, until after a
long while Catherine ~exclaimed-
"Poor Zuleime ~ Oh, how could such a fatal misrepre-
sentation have been made of the case ~ It was reported that
he was cloven down from his saddle, and then butchered !"
"It was not a willful misrepresentation. It was a misap-
prehension. The 'few who escaped to tell the tale of the
VOL. II.-4            -

44

45


46

1XHE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

massacre, no doubt had seen him struck down; and don't
you see in the terror and confusion, they imagined the rest-
knowing perfectly well that scalping and rifling the bodies
are the almost invariable custo~n of the savages .~ And then
remember, Catherine, the body taken for the corpse of Cap-
tain Fairfax, was so rifled and lnutih~ted, as to be unrecog-
nizable, except upon circumstantial evidence."
"So indeed it was said to be! I would the mj~take. had
never been made though! it killed Zuleime!"
"Catherine, my child, I have no idea that Zuleime was
really drowned."
"Madam !"
"Do you not know, Catherine, that any body drowned in that
part of the river where the supposed signs of her suicide were
found, must have come to light. Don t you 2know that the
current is very rapid there, and that a ledge of rocks crosses
the river a few yards below it, upon which her body must
have been thrown, if she had been in the river at all? And,
Catherine, if I have never breathed this thought before, it was
upon account of poor Carolyn. I knew that in her weak, de-
pressed state of mind and body, she could better bear the
belief of Zuleime's death, than the frightful uncertainty of
her 'fates You are discreet, Kate; you will not breathe
this to Carolyn, or to any one, lest it should reach her ear."
"Never! Ami. do you know, dear Mrs. Clifton, I have
sometimes had the thought that Zuleime might yet be living-
and I dared not indulge the hope seeretily-much less breathe
it aloud."
"And what. was your reason for such a supposition,
2Catherine ?"
"Why my thought ~was not so well founded-do logical as
yours. I knew nothing about the peculiarities of the river.
l~1y thought was only a vague hope, and it agitated me so
much as to interfere with my ~racticai duties. I had to
,banish it."
"You are so sensitive, so sympathetic, my dear girl.
Well, Kate, no more exciting talk to-night. We will return
thanks to God for these glad tidings, and then retire to
~rest."

TItE CURSE O~' CLIFTON.

47

CHAPTER XXIII.
ZULEIME.
Among a jumbled heap of' murky building~.-KEATs.
ZIJLEIME had been placed by Georgia under the care of a
poor woman, the wif~ of a carver and gilder, who bad occa.-
sionally worked for her father. And as long as the funds
of the belle had held out, the trifling expenses of such poor
board and lodging had been regularly paid. But when the
syren was reduced to support her own extravagance enliroly
by credit, founded upon the false reputation of wealth-her
small remittances to her prot~g~, or;rather her victim, ceased.
Zuleime was afraid to seek her, afraid to write to her-there
was nothing she feared more than discovery, and the
recognition of her hand-writing on the superscription of a
letter might have led to that. It was long after the death
of her father before she heard of it-nor then did she hear
any of the particulars of time, prace or circumstance. The
fact came to her knowledge irregulaTly, through the report
of the transcendent charms and conquests of his beautiful
young widow. A long and dangerous illness was the result
of this sudden news. It' was some weeks after her recovery
before the' poor people of the house, who had long despaired
of getting anything for her board, could find it in their kind
hearts to ask her to seek another home. And even then they
sent a sigh after the desolate young widow-the child who
went forth carrying in her arms another child. And how
she lhFed during the interval between that and the period at
which I shall again introduce her to you, 21 canijot tell.
Sometimes a little fine needle-work came to he~ hands; some-
times a spell of want, reaching almost to starvation; then a
little assistance from neighbors; and a little going in debt to
shopkeepers. And then she always lodged with' the pool'.
And the poor seldom persecute the poor; remember that
the need family who first sheltered her, hadbeen for mouths

v~
21
~             '2
4

V
12
22 2~%

/
~


'3'
333

TIlE CURSE OP CLIt'TON.

at the sole expense of her food, lodging, and long illness-
and yet they had never reproached or persecuted her for un-
paid debts-though they scarcely refrained from reproaching
themselves for sending her awi~y.
In a quiet, back street, mostly inhabited by very humble
people, in the middle of the square, and fronting immediately
upon the battered pavement, stood an old two-story brick
house, occupied by a poor ~cabinet-maker and old furniture
dealer. The lower front room was used as the ware-room,
and crowded and piled up with every description of misera-
bly dilapidated household furniture, apparently good for
nothing else under the s~in but kindling wood, and scarcely
worth splitting up for that. Old worm-eaten; carved ma-
hogany'bureaus and bedsteads; tables without legs or leaves~
chairs without backs; cradles without bottoms or rockers:
clocks wanting faces; beaufets wanting doors ; sofas minus
arms; smoky pictures without frames; and tarnished frames
without pictures; worm-eaten cabinets, and mildewed look
ing-glasses; broken pots, pans and kettles; and mismatchedl
crockery-ware in any quantity.
Reader, I do not wish to give you an inventory of an old
furniture-shop, but merely some idea of the inextricable conA
fusion in which this heterogeneous mass of worn-out, broken,
worm-eaten, mildewed, fly-stained, dust-clothed, cobweb-.'
veiled items, were piled upfrom.floor to ceiling. itwouldinake
your heart and head ache 'with wondering what. sort of a liv-
ing could be picked out from so xnuch dirt, disorder and
decay-and who on earth could be the patrons of the establish-
ment. You would unconsciously gather close about you
your most worthless dress in passing through the 'chop, and
look up in involuntary dread of ~ broken head or limbs, by
the fall of some of those dilapidated, ill-balanced, old chairs
and tables.
The family of the chair-maker consisted of himself, his
wife, and two daughters. They were Germans, with the
usual talent of that race for money-getting and money-keep-
ing. And the man made at least a hundred per cent. on
every old, rickety, worm-eaten bureau or table that, mended
and varnished, left his shop. They added to their income,
by letting the rooms of their kouse, and occasionally by
taking a profitable boarder.
It was in the early part of the same autumn which found
her sister Carolyn in Lisbon.~-and Mrs. Clifton and Cathe-

THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.             49
rmne alone at Llardbargain, that Zuleime became a tenant of
the German cabinet-maker. She occupied the back roem,
on the second floor; the two daughters of the family using
the front room as a sleeping apartment. She had the use of
the street passage door, and so reached her room without
passing through the shop or any part of the house occu-
pied by the family or their boarders. The refinement in
which she had been born and bred, was not lost amid her
bitter poverty. It constrained her to seek privacy of life at
least. She supported herself and child, just now, by doing
fine needle-work for some ladies on a transient visit to the
city. But the work was precarious, and the supply might
be cut off at any moment. Her expenses were small, how-
ever, and her economy wonderful. Her neat, but poorly
furnished room, cost her but ten shillings a month; a bushel
of meal and1 a pint of salt, five shillings; milk for the child,
two shillings; fuel,~eight shillings; washing, three shillings;
candle-light, two shillings; and the attendance of a boy to
bring water and cut wood, Three shillings-making the sum
total of her monthly expenses only one pound, fourteen shil-
lings, or little more than six dollars. Her only food was
mush or corn-cakes prepared from the n:~al. She could not
have kept u~ very long under this regimen; indeed, although
she knew it not, she was slowly dying of a disease as com-
mon as lingering, and as universally ignored as that of a
broken heart-namely, nutrition or slow starvation. Her
German hostess, kind-hearted, notwithstanding her money
grasping propensities, often sent hera bowl of "noodle soup,"
with a little plate of "sour-krout," and a tumbler of
schnapps, or some such combination of German luxuries.
But Zuleime, who managed to exist upon coarse food, could
not endure gross food, and she would turn away from
such, scarcely able to conceal the sickness the very odor so
appetizing to a Dutch stomach, excited in hers. Still her
refusal of the viands was couched in words so gentle and
grateful, as never to offend her landlady. Some of my
readers may wonder why Zuleime did not do her washing,
water-drawing, etc., with her c~wn handy, and take the money
paid for having those things done, and buy better food ~
Because, for one reason, she had not the requisite physical
strength or skill-and besides, perhaps, she shrank from the
exposure necessarily incurred in these labors. She had not in
these two years, forgotten the delicacy and refine~nent in which
4*

48

"''3
U
~K
~ A
A
4
33
If
I
3,,
33'3

.3)

4


50             TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                 TIlE CUR&amp;E OF CLIFTON.          51

~1
V
[i
1'
~
I
*

she had been nurtured~ On the contrary, everything in) her
appearance and manners, betrayed the gentle-woman. She
had but one dress in the worl4-all the others had been cut
up to make clothes for her little girl. Her sole gown was
black bombazine, which she had worn daily for nearly two
years-yet so good was its original quality, and so well had
it been preserved, that it was now neither rusty nor thread-
bare. It was shaken out and hung up every night, and well
brushed and spunged every week. This dress, with the
little inside 'kerchief of linen, was always neat and lady-like.
Zuleinfe's fine needle-work gave out-as she knew it would-
and she found herself, without employment, or funds. It was
then that Bertha and Wilhelmina Erhmie~itraut, the daugh-
ters of her landlord, told her of a German clothier on Main
street, who had advertised for a number of needle-women to
make vests. Zuleime confessed her total igi~orance of that
branch of needle work. But the kind German girls promised
that if she would procure* the work, they would give her
some instructions how it shouldie done. Zukime gratefully
accepted their offer, and prepared to set out on her long
walk by donning the little black bonnet and shawl, as neat
and as well preserved as her dress had been. She could not
father tax the kindness of her landlord's family by leaving
her child in their care, she, had been obliged to put the little
one to sleep, and lock it up in her room, only leaving her
key with her landlady-" in case anything should happen"
while she was gone. It was a long, weary tramp to Main
street, where the clothier's store was situated. When she
entered the show-shop and made her business kno~p, she was
directed into a back room, where a man, behind a long table,
was engaged in cutting out garments-and many bundles of
cut out but unmade clothes, tied around with skeins of thread,
lay piled up at one end. Zuleime walked .up to this table.
The foreman, as he appeared to be, laid down Jils shears and
looked up, saying deferentially-
"What did you wish to look at, madam? Mr. Schneider,
attend this lady."
"You are in error. I do not wish to look at your wares.
You advertised work to give out; \can I have some ?"
The tailor looked at her again. He saw, from her gentle
manners and appearance, that she was a lady, guessed from
her dress that she was a widow, and knew by her errand that
she was self-dependent, unprotected; so there excited no

earthly reason why a coarse~minded, craven-hearted man,
who spent~ his whole days in smirking, cringing, deprecating
and deferring to others, should not refresh his soul by a little
impertinence and insolence to so safe a subject as a poor
lady.
"Did you ever make vests ?" he asked, in a short, cuft,
insolent manner.
"No," answered Zuleime, "but I sew very neatly-.-.un~.
usually neatly, my patrons say-and as you cut and baste
the work, very Little instruction would enable me to make
them very nicely."
"I shan't trust you! I have had quite enough in my time
of giving out work to people who know nothing about the
business.~,
It was not the words so much as the insulting manner of
the man, that shocked the gentle-hearted woman, and she
turned and left the shop, ready to sink, not so much under
disappointment, though she kneW not where to turn for work
or money or food-but under the deeply humiliating sense
of the rudeness and vulgarity to which she was forced to ex~~
pose herself in. this bitter struggle through the world. She
walked slowly, thoughtfully, sadly away from the shop, till
the sudden thought of her chiId's~ awakening, electrified her,
and she hurried on until she reached home. She obtained
her key from the landlady, in the basement, and entered the
passage. It was then that she heard a very sweet, gentle
voice, apparently near her room door, saying-
"Don't cry, baby! poor baby, don't cry! mother will come
by-and-by! Deqr pretty baby, don't cry! I'll bring you
all my playthings, and a little dog, when I can get in."
And then, in the pause of the child's wails and broken
talk, and baby plaints, she ran up stairs at once,, and there,
kneeling befoNre her door, and talking thi~ough the key-hole,
was a sweet little dark haired girl of about five years old,
and dressed in deep mourning. Her hat of the finest Leg-
horn straw, the richness of the black ribbon that bound it--
the fineness of the bh~ck bombazine frock and the linen ea~-
bric tucker, the delicate shoes and stockings-the gentle, re-
fined manner, all bespoke a child of a different rank from
those seen in that neighborhood, and especially in that house.
The child' got up and stood aside when she saw the lady come
with the key to unlock the door. When Zuleime had en~
tered her room, and lifted the babe to her lap, ~he called the

K
4/
7

50

51


TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          53

62              THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

p
I,
~l
I.'
~'
4.'
"U",
I
~
~4 4

little girl up .to her side. She was a lovely child indeed,,
with fair skin and delicate features-jet-black hair, eye-
brows and eye-lashes, and large, mournful, dayk gray eyes.
"You are a dear little girl. What is your name 'P' asked
Zuleime, pulling her around her waist caressingly.
"Ida -.------; see what a nice new black dress I've got. They
gave it to me when father died. Mother wears one, too.
You've got a black dress on, too! Is your father dead '?"
"Yes, darling," said Zuleime, with her eyes suffused.
"Don't cry, please! Mother cries so much. I do wish
she wouldn't! Is the baby's father dead, too l"
"Yes-yes, love-the baby's father is dead, too !"
"Well-please don't cry so! Mother says we have all
got a father in Heaven! Oh! please don't cry so! It gives
me such a-such an ache in the breast to see anybody cry
so," said the child, and her mournful, but most beautiful eyes
assumed a pleading, painful, almost querulous look.
"Who is your mother, sweet Ida ~" asked Zuleime, to
change the subject of her own and her little companion's
thoughts.
"Mrs. Knight, you know, the leading lady. IDid they
put the baby's father in a lon.g red box, and send him away 'P'
"Yes, yes, Ida. Where does your mother live ~"
'~ She lives here, in the ~back room, down stairs. We came
to-day. She is going to play to-night, and. then I'll be by
myself. Did they hold the baby up to kiss her father like
they did me ~ And did he put his hand on her head and
call her his fawn-eyed darling ~ Thht was when he wits on
the bed. And afterwards he went to sleep. An~l they said
he was dead.. Was that the way with the baby's father ~"
"I don't want to talk about it, dear Ida. Tell me of your
mother. What does she play on-the organ V'
"No! I don't know. Yes I do, too !-the stage. Look
at my nice new hat. It used to have, a wreath of red roses
round it. But when father died, mother took it off and pjut
l~his black ribbon there. Mother wears roses 'on her head,
though. 'At night, I mean. All day long she wears black,
and looks so pale and weeps. But at night, she puts beauti-
ful flowers in her hair, and sometimes gold and fine feathers-
and she has such 'sweet long curls and rosy cheeks~-and such
beautiful dresses. And father used to wear beautiful clothes
at night, red and gold, and feathers. I do want to~ see father
so much. I wish they'd bring him back. Do you think it

will be long before I see him ?" asked the child, as the large
tears rolled down her cheeks.
"Perhaps not, my love. Is your mother an actress, then ?"
"Yes, that is what she is. Don't cry, now! It gives me
a pain in my bosom. Please don't cry; if you don't, I won't,"
said the child, wiping her eyes. Then suddenly she exclaimed,
"Oh! I forgot, I promised to bring the baby my playthings
and my curly dog ;" and so Saying, the child ran away and
scampered down stairs.
Zuleinie looked in vain for her return, and, finally con-
cluded that her mother had detained her. But if the child
did not come, somebody else did. Wilhelmina entered, and.
kindly inquired after her lodger's success in seeking work.
When she learned her failure, she begged Zuleime not to be
trouble, for that there was work in the house for her if she
would take it. That the new boarder, Mrs. Knight, the lead-
ing lady of the Richmond Theatre, wanted assistance in
making up some dresses, that were to be ready in a few days.
That she, Wilhelmina, had recommended their lodger, and
if the young lady phased, she would conduct her down and
introduce her to Mrs. Knight. Zuleinie thanked the 1~ind-
hearted girl, and prepared to accompany her-..--sensible amid
all her other emotions of a rustic's curiosity to see a really
living actress, for she had never in her life seen one off the
boards. She followed Wilhelmina down the stairs into the
passage.. Near the foot of the stairs was a door leading into
the first floor back room. At this door Wilhelmina rapped.
It was opened by Ida, who, as soon as she saw Zuleime, ex-
claimed-
"Oh! it's you! Come in. Mother! here is the baby's
mother !"
'It is I, Mrs. Knight, with the person I spoke of. May
come in 'P' inquired Wilhelmina.
"Assuredly. Do so," replied the sweetest, deepest voice
Zuleime thought she had ever heard. And they entered the
room. Willielmina introduced Mrs. Fairfax; and withdrew.
The apartment in which Zuleime found herself, was the best
furnished roomh in. the 'h6use-decidedly-having a good warm,
hued carpet on the flOQr, crimson stuff curtains at the only
back window, 'a grate with a coal fire, a four-post bedstead,
with tester, net valance and a white counterpane, a
btireau with tall dressing-glass, and wash-stand, with china
toilet service. 2But it was in a state of confusion only less

4
N
'4
4',
'4
Xr
'4

53

52


[
I
V
V"'4
V

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

than that of the adjoining shop. Trunks, boxes, and band
boxes of all sizes, forms and colors, some corded and piled
up one above the other, and some open and boiling up and
over with all sorts of finery and tinsel, satins, silks and vel..
yets, feathers, flowers and fustian, which also trailed upon
the carpet, and* strewed the chairs. An oil painting, in a
large heavy gilt frame, leaned with its face against the wall.
On the bed, a black mantle ~nd bonnet, with a widow's veil,
lay side, by side with a gorgeous s'~arl'et velvet train, embroi
dered with gold, an imitation ermine robe, a crown of gilt
and paste, a plume of feathers, and great bunches of sham
pearls. Qn a low trunk, in the. midst of this sad chaos of
poverty and glitter, mummery and mourning, sat one who
immediately drew and fixed Zuleime's attention. A tall,
noble looking woman, of perhaps thirty years of age, clothed
in deep, mourning, with her heavy black hair banded around
her forehead, and temples, and shading a countenance dark
and cavernous , with its large hollow eyes and hollow cheeks,
but majestic with power, earI~estness and truth, and beautiful
with those grand, mournful eyes,. whose mesmeric spell was
felt by Zuleime, on whom they were now brought to bear.
"Take a seat, Mrs. Fairfax. You find me here in great
confusion, because I hwve but just arrived, and have had to~
unpack and look over all these trunks, to select and prepare
no less than four costumes for the evening," said the same
rich, full, ~deep tones, as their owner cleared a chair of
spangled' robes and plumes, and offered it to her visitoi~.
"Mother is going to wear this dress this evening-isn't it
pretty ?" said Ida, eJimbing upon the fQot of the bed.
Zuleime turned her~ eyes with childish interest towards the
robes; and Mrs. Knight, observing her look of curiosity,
said-'
"They form a portion of the Queen I~atherine costume.
They ar~ going to bring out Henry VIII., this e~rening."
Zuleime glanced from the costume to the haggard, but
nobl&amp;looking woman, and thought that she might represent
the unhappy Queen very well, as far as personal appearance
would go, but instead of expressing this opinion, she said-
"The young German girl told me that you wanted some
assistance in needle-work. I shall be glad to help you."
~I~h'e dark, mournful' eyes rose slowly, and grew still, look..
in~ at'the young widow, in whom they now began to recog-
*iize that most piteous of all beii2gs-a reduced lady.

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

55

"Sit down-pray sit down," she said, to Zuleime, who still
remained standing.
Zuleime took the vacant chair.
"Would you. object, Mrs. Fairfax, to sitting with me While
you sew? There are alterations to be made in these four
Queen Katherine dresses, in which you would require my
advice."
Zuleime hesitated, and then answered-
"I should not like to leave my little child alone, madam."
"Let me !-let me !-let me go up and stay with the baby!"
eagerly interrupted Ida, jumping down from the bed, and
running up and seizing the hand of her mother.
The dark eyes sank fondly on the little one, and the rich
voice-richer now with maternal love, replied-
"Certainly you may go, if the lady will permit you to do
so."
Zuleime hesitated again, then said-
"'shank you. I shall be very glad. Let me go up first,
and make the fire safe." And ~he left the room, followed by
Ida, who ran back first, to throw l~er arms around her mo-
ther's neck, and kiss her "~good-bye."
When Zuleime reached her room, she placed the blower
before the grate, for safety-hid away all implements with
which the children might harm themselves, and leaving the
little ones at play upon the rag target, returned below stairs,
and went to work. Her new occupation was indeed of an
odd and miscellaneous description-ripping off gold lace,
and sewing in its place imitation sable; trimming buskins,
and lastly, making up an ancient coiffure, all under the direc-
tion of the shadowy-faced woman, who, all this time, sat upon
the trunk, with a tattered play-book on her knee, studying
her part.
Zuleime spoke of Ida-~her beauty, her charming manner.
"Is she? Do you find her so? I thought that might be
only my partiality. Poor little one! She is a great comfort
and a great. sorrow to me, if you can understand such a
paradox."
"Yes, I can understand it," said Zuleime.
"II have to leave her all t~he forenoon, for the purpose of
attending the rehearsals, and then, before itis time for her t~
go to bed, Ihave tQ leave her, alone, and go tQ the theatre, an!i
be absent till a late hour of the night. And then the fear
of fire, 9r of accident, while IL am gone from her, wears me

54

S.
d
ii
'S
S~


V
41)
k4
1 ?
j 4
(
It
it

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

out. Worse than that, all day and night, while away from
her, is the dread of her getting in the street, and into evil
company." And the eyes of the woifian assumed an anxious,
haggard, querulous look; as she dropped them upon her book.
"Give your little girl into my care. I am never absent
from home except early~ in the morning-as to-day-and at
that hour you are here."
The dark eyes flew up and fastened themselves upon the
face of Zuleime, and the deep voice inquired-
"Would you really take charge of her for me ~ Oh, it
is too much for you, and too good in you~. I don't under-
stand it."
"Indeed I shall be very glad to do so. The presence of
a lovely child is a great pleasure to me. Leave Ida with me
this evening while you are gone, and I will put her to bed
when the time comes."
"For this evening 'I will gratefully accept your kindness,
but you may find her more inconvenient than you anticipate,"
said Mrs. Knight. And then she dropped her eyes again
upon her book, and Zuleime went on silently with her sewing.
About sunset the work was nearly completed, and the cos-
tume, with the exception of the coiffure, upon which Zuleime
was still engaged, was packed in band-boxes, to be conveyed
to the theatre. Then Mrs. Knight rang a little hand bell,
and when it was answered by the entrance of Bertha Erh-
inientraut, she said,..-" Please send me a lad to carry these
boxes for me, and ask your mother to make me a very strong
cup of coffee."
Bertha disappeared, and Mrs. Knight put on her bonnet
and shawl. And soon a ragged boy appeared at ~the door,
who agreed to carry the boxes for a sixpence. Mrs. Knight
loaded and dispatched him at the same moment that Bertha
re-appeared with a huge cup of strong coffee, which she took
and drank off, standing. Then, ~s she handed back the empty
cup ~o the German girl, and receivedd from Zuleime the
finished coiffure pinned up in a paper, she said-
"That cup of coffee will give me strength to go through
my heavy part to-night, but will leave me at its close more
exhausted than ever; thus I discount future health and life
for present bread." And so she went off, her eyes gleaming
under the excitement of a stimulant narcotic, as fatal, if not
as disreputable, as opium or alcohol. Zuleime went up to
her own room, andprepared the frugal supper for herself and

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

57

the two children, that were still playing on the carpet. She
got a double portion of milk from the German people, on ac-
count of her little guest, Ida declaring that she liked milk
with corn cake crumbled in it better than anything, it was so
sweet. And then when the babe was undressed and put to
bed, the little girl's eyes waxed heavy and dim, and Zuleime
took her down stairs into her mother's room, and disrobed
and washed and prepared her for bed. And when the child
was about to kiss her friend and spring into bed, Zuleime
said-
"Stop, Ida. Don't you say your prayers ~"
"But don't you wish to ~"
"Oh, yes, ma'am," said the child, and running back, she
kneeled down at Zuleime's knees, and placed her little hands
together and looked up for instruction.
Zuleime thought the shortest, simplest infant's prayer she
knew of was the best, because readily understoQd and easily
remembered. And so she took the little one's folded hands
between her own, and bade her repeat after her-
Now I lay me down to sleep,
I pray the Lord my soul to keep.
If I should die before I wake,
I pray the Lord my soul to take.~d
"That is a sweet little verse. What is my soul P' asked
the child.
Zuleime hesitated, puzzled for an answer; then she said
for want of a better-
"It is what you think with, and wonder with, and what
you are sorry or glad with, and what will live forever."
"I love you with it then. Good-night, good, pretty lady."
"Good-night, sweet child." And Zuleime laid her in the
bed, and kissed her fair eyelids down to slumber.
VOL. IJ.-5

6

*
''1
I

N~4


'
~j-.
I
/

THE CURSE 013' CLIFTN.

CHAPTER XXIV.
THE CATASTROPHE.
To die mid flame and smoke !-HALLEOK
HEAVEN knows that it is now difficult enough for a poor
woman to make a living. But in the' days when Zuleirne
lived ai~d suffered, it was even more so. It was especially
hard in Virginia, where, owing to the prevalexice of the law
of entail, the rich were very rich, and the poor very poor.
Where, besides, ladies 1~ook pride in their domestic and in-
dustrious habits, the favorite and most inveterate of whieh
was that of doing their own sewing, forgetful of 'the poor
widow and orphan, who might be suffering for the want of
the work. It was for such reasons that Zuleime found little
or no employment-at most of the houses where she applied
she was told that-" We never give out needle-work," or
th4, "The ladies of the house 1do all the family sewing."
All very well,, in 'moderation. Industry is a praiseworthy
habit, when it does. not compromise justice and mercy-when
it. does not hinder us to "live and let live." Let us be
diligent in our several callings; but for Heaven's sake, if
we can possibly afford it, let us never refuse to give work to
those who need, or who ask it of us. They may be suffering
for it, they may be starving for it, they may be dying for it,
as Zuleinie was. They may be driven to vice, to crime, for
the want of~it, as Zuleime was not, thank Heaven. Reader,
this portion of my story at least is no fiction. Nor was
Zuleime's case then a solitary one. Nor would it be such
now. There are many poor women, in every 'city, who have
not work enough to earn their necessary food and fuel. And
this is one of the causes :-There are hundreds of ladies, of
the middle classes of society, who work themselves nearly to
death, and really shorten their 'lives, by sewing for their
large families, in order to save money to lay out in dress for
themselves and children, more genteel than needful; or in

I furniture, which they do not live very long to enjoy. And
all this time there are hundreds of poor women around them
suffering for a part of this very work with which they are
killing themselves. Yes, hundreds who die annually of in-
nutrition-a slow, cruelly slow starvation, prolonged from
month to month, or from year to year, according to their
relative strength of constitution. I know it. For I have
lived among them, and seen for myself, and not another. The
doctors call the want, of which they die, consumption-I
think it is rather non-consumption. Znleime sank deeper
and deeper into penury. As autumn advanced into winter,
and as her necessities increased, her ability to supply them
decreased. Her poverty began to betray itself sadly in her
personal appearance. Her face was thin an~I wan, with great,.
bright, hungry looking eyes-her hands wasted to semi-
transparency. Her only gown, her black bonibazine, was
rusty and threadbare, and embossed with darns-her shoes
were so bad as to look scarcely decent. And amid all her
other troubles, there was room for humiliated feelings upon
eveti this account. The present was wretched-the futurO
hopeless. She had heard of people perishing from cold and
hunger, and to such an cud she thought her life seemed
tending. Yet miserable as was the condition of. Zuleiine,
there were many then, are many. now, in much worse situa-
tions. She at least was starving in a tolerably clean room,
in privacy and in peace. Far happier than some who perish
in the midst of vice and filth and squalor. Yes, reader,
there are such things; they do exist in my neighborhood,
and yours, and it is just as well that 'they should sometin~es
be remembered. Zuleime was dying of want. And di~I the
people of the house know nothing of this ~ Yes, they knew
something of it, and her German landlord trembled for his
rent, his wife wished that they had never seen the poor thing,
and the two girls pitied her very deeply. And Mrs. Knight
saw it all, and suffered in sympathy, and gave the poor,
dying girl, all the work she had to 'give, and paid her for
doing it as liberally as she could afford. But Mrs. Knight
was not able, from heir scanty salary, to keep up her expen-
sive, professional wardrobe, and support two families besides.
The greater part of the money Zuleime made, by sewing for
the poor actress, was paid for rent, to keep the roof over 'her
head that bitter weather, and to supply the 'daily- two-pence
worth of milk for the' child. If a few pence were left 'over,

68              THE CTJRS~ OF CLIFTON.

59

1~

F
91

A

'9
k
I

58


f
I
4 V
KY
(
I
~' (  I
j~v'

THE CURSE OF CLIF1~ON.

they were spent in cheap pilot bread, sparingly eaten by her-
self. For weeks together she had no fire, no fuel, but would
manage to keep her child warm l~y seating her in the middle
of the bed, well wrapped up. By the side of the head of the
bedstead, and looking to the south, was the only back win-.
dow of her room. When she had work, she would sit by
this window and sew, while her child sat wrapped up in the
bed. Whei~ she had no work, she would still sit there and
rock her child upon her bosom, singing to her all the while.
Unearthly and spiritual was the wan, moonlight face, with
its large, luminous eyes-unearthly and spiritual was the
voice in which she sang her child to rest, as she sat by the
south window. She found room in her burdened heart to
love that sunny window, with its glimpses of a river land-.
scap~, with waterfalls and hills and forests, and nearer, lying
between her and the water, the pleasure-grounds arour~d a
fair mansion of white freestone, that fronted on the ri4rer.
That fine place took in nearly a whole square, and was sepa-
rated from this poor house and lot, first, by a broad, back
alley, then a tall brick wall, with capacious stables and
coach-houses, then the garden, with terraces and conserva-
tory, and so up to the venetian back piazza of the mansion.
Every day, and all day long through the glowing autumn
weather, she had sat and feasted her eyes and mind upon
these pleasure-grounds, with their gorgeous flowers and mag-
nillcent trees, and the palace-home in the midst, a picture of
beauty and glory, telling besides of plenty, elegance, refine-
ment, leisure, artistic taste, intellectual pursuits, family
union, domestic happiness. Many a time, when going out to
look for work, she had walked quite around the square 'to
get in front of the mansion, and satisfy her soul with the,
architectural beauty and elegance of the edifice, as it stood
elevated by a flight of terraces far above the street, and
commanding for many miles the mighty course of the river.
'Often in the autumn weather, had she walked under this
southern wall, and even in the midst of her deep distresses,
looked up in childish longing at the splendid autumnal flowers,
trailing luxuriantly over the iron railing. Why did this
place i~iterest her so? Not because it ~vas a palace-home, in
such strong contrast to her own poor dwelling-not because
she passed it almost every day-not because its magnificent
grounds were ever before her sight from her own poor room.
,Ah, no! But because there was a rural character, and a

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

1~

61

fine, old, ancestral look about the place, that reminded her
of tier dear, lost home. Everything connected with the pre-
~pises interested her, even that capacious family carriage,
with its round bodied, gray coach horses, and its fat coach-
man, which appeared every afternoon at a certain hour to
take the family out to drive. She did not care to inquire
who lived there. One day, when walking in front of the
- house on the other street, she had seen a lady in deep mourn-
ing come out and get in the carriage. She had time to see
that the lady appeared bowed in grief, but possessed so sweet
and benevolent a face, that she was encouraged to call and
ask for work. So the next day she entered the beautiful
grounds, ~nd ascended the stone steps~that ledAlight by flight
up the rising terraces until sEe reached the Grecian portico
and rang the bell. The door was opened by a man servant,
to whom she communicated her business. He called a wait-
ing-woman, who came, and after hearing what the viSitor
wanted, explained civilly enough that all their needle-work
was done by a young person, who lived companion to her
mistress, who was too infirm to see strangers. Zuleime
never tried there again. But the sweet, sorrowful face of
the lady haunted her, and she gazed from her poor window
upon the magnificent pleasure-grounds with more of interest
than ever.
Truly the world is "full of paper walls." How little Zu-
leime surmised that the mourner in the palace sorrowedvover
the very same bereavement that had laid her own life waste-
that the fair-haired, tender-eyed lady, whose grief-worn coun-
tenance haunted her so, was the mother of her lost Frank;
that the proud mansion house, in the midst of its pleasure-
grounds, was the rightful inheritance of the poor babe that
rested on her wasted bosom.'
how little did the childless and desolate recluse of the
palace guess that her lost son's widow sat pining, starving'
so near her! The world is full of paper walls, but, ~fate
makes them firmer, stronger, more indestructible than ada-
mant.
Upon that very sai~ie December night that found Mrs.
Clifton and Catherine rejoicing over the good news they had
heard from their friends, upon that very night Zuleirne sat
shivering in her room, without fire, food or light. She had
given her child its cup of milk, and thanked Heaven that
she had it to give, though she herself went hungry. And

690

(4
t
I


p
I
I
(I
44
44 4

she had wrapped the babe in her shawl, and sat by the win-
dow, singing and rocking her, to sleep. The room was in-
tensely cold, she was chilled to the heart, her feet were numb,
and almost lifeless. The only warmth in her body seemed
to be the bosom at which the child was pressed. The snow
was falling fast without, but even through its flakes she saw
the lighted windows of the mansion-house glowing through
the crimson curtains, and streaming redly across the snow-
clad ground. And she sat and thought of the comforts
within that parlor. While she sat there thinking, there came
a gentle knock at her door.
"Who is there ?" inquired Zuleime.
"It is I, Mrs. Fairfax," replied the voice of the actress.
"Come in, Mrs. Knight."
The actress entered, saying, with a little pardonable tact-
"Oh, you are putting your child to sleep in the dark. It
is singular some little ones never will go to sleep where there
is a light burning. Is she asleep ?"
"Yes," replied Zuleime.
"Then please put her in bed, my dear, and come down
stairs with me. I have something to talk to you about." -
Zuleime laid her little girl in bed, and tottering with4 weak-
ness, from her long fast and the cold, accompanied the actress
down stairs.
Mrs. Knight opened her own loom, and revealed a warm.
coal~re burning in the grate, and a little supper-table set
out,'4'with coffee, French rolls, nice butter, and stewed oysters9
She set the cushioned rocking-chair for Zuleime, between
the fire and the table, and pushed her gently into the seat,
saying-
"I have holiday to-night, and for a week from to-night,
because the opera troupe are here. And so Ii thought I
would just celebrate its commencement by a supper and a
ball for two !" And she placed before her visitor a plate of
oysters and a cup of coffee. When the little supper was
fairly commenced, Mrs. Knight said, "I did not send for you,
only t~ take coffee with me-I wished to speak to you on a
matter of business. I hare been wishing some time to do so,
but scarcely knew how to do it without wounding or offend-
ing you." She paused.
are you so considerate? Yet you need not fear-
I know you could not think of anything to say which would-.
would hurt me."

"At least, I only mean your good, and if I err, you will
forgive me."
"Gentle friend! I am used to all the hardness and vul-
garity- against which a woman has to break her heart and
spirit, in struggling through the rough world. Now think
of that. And think whether I can be hurt by anything your
kind heart impels you to say. No, I shall be very grate-
ful !"
"Well, this is it, then, my dear. I have not been able to
avoid seeing your fruitless efforts to maintain yourself and
child, for the last three months. I fear you have scarcely
made five shillings a week."
"I have not made that for the last month."
"And there seems to be no chance of doing bettor-with
your needle, I mean."
Ah, no, ~
"And your situation is getting worse every day. Poor
child! your very shoes are almost gone-there-forgive me-
I have spoken rudely."
"No, no-you have spoken the truth in love. Any truth
can be told in the spirit of love.
"And you are wasting away-you will be thrown upon
your sick bed-then what will become of your child ?"
"Alas, God knows! If we both could die-"
Yes, if you both could. Death is no evil at all." As
the actress said this, her hollow, shadowy face gre~ dark,
and her large, luminous eyes glanced aside, and fell u~ri the
floor-fixed in an intense, suffering, almost querulous gaze-
as if of one enduring pain. "It must come abruptly at last,"
she said, looking up, suddenly. "My dear, have you any
insurmountable prejudices against a theatrical life for your-
self?"
Startled by the abruptness of the proposition, Zuleiine raised
her eyes to the beautiful, dark, irritated countenance before
her, without replying.-
"You don't understand me. Well, then, to put it plainer,
if nothing better at all could be found for you, would you
absolutely refuse to go upon the stage ?"
Zuleime had understood her very well, and if she still
hesitated, it was -from a reluctance to wound the spirit of the
actress.
"Do you, then, consider the histrionic profession disreputa-

62             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                    THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            63

44- -~

63

62


I
'A
ii
A!
I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

65

64              THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
ble'?" asked Mrs. Knight, with the same suffering, querulous,
almost cross expression of the eyes.
"No," said Zuleime, very gently, "I do not. Not the
profession that Mrs. Siddons ennobled. I think it truly
"'The youngest of the sister arts,
Where all their beauties blend.'"
"Well, then, my question-Would you object to going on
the stage yourself ?"
"I am not fit for it," replied Zuleime, evasively.
"I do not know that. I need not ~tell you that you are
young and pretty, and singularly graceful-nor that you have
a very fine voice for singing.~-these form a very good founda-
tion. And in elocution, my dear, I would myself become
your instructress. What say you ?"
"That you are kinder to me than any one has ever been
since I left home; and that I am very, very grateful," Zn-
leime said, very gently.
"But that you despise the calling too thoroughly to follow
it, even for ~ said the actress, bitterly.
"No, no~~LI did not say or mean that, indeed-but I, you
see, have neither the taste, talent, nor courage requisite !"
"Why not ?"
"I was brought up in the privacy of domestic life; in the
deep seclusion of the country. I have never been used to
society much less to publicity, and IL am sure, that no matter
how ~1l I might be instructed in my part, when I should
come before an audience, I should forget all about it, and
half die of shame."
"Ah, I suppose you have no vocation for it. An actress
forgets her own identity in that of the character she repre-
sents, and that enables her to go through things she could
not otherwise endure. But, my dear, I do not see anything
else you can do; and as for the 'stage fright,' as it is called
among us, you would soon get that off."
Zuleim~ shook her head.
"My dear, you do not yet k~o~ the plan I have for you.
I never thought-no one would ever think of a sudden grand
debut for you. Nothing but great genius, strong vocation,
and perfect self-possession on the part of the debutante,
would justify such a thing. No-the art must be acquired,
as other arts are-slowly. This is the plan IL had for you,
and it entirely precludes the possibility of a stage fright,

since you are gradually inured to it. Do you understand me,
"No, I do not !"
oP~V~ll~ then, for instance-and to come to the point! The
season is about to commence, and the manager wishes
to engage about half-a-dozen young girls as chorus singers.
Will you be one'? The lowest salary they ever give a chorus
singer is six dollars a week-that is four times as much as
you ever earned by the tedious needle. Will you consent?"
Still Zuleitne was silent.
"After the opera season is over, I make no doubt that
your youth, beauty and grace, and your very fine voice, will
secure you a permanent engagement at an advanced salary.
Will you go with me to the manager to-morrow'?"
"No," said Zuleime, "I should not dare to go upon the
stage. I could not face an audience."
"And you need not face tl~em ! You would be in a group
of young girls, and no one would notice you, except casually
as a part of the scenery. The attention of the audience is
taken up with the principal performers. Besides, no one will
know who you are. Your name need not appear upon the
bills. I will take every care of your feelings, if, indeed, you
* can be sensible of them when hunger and cold are felt."
"I do not like the life," said Zuleime. "I had almost as
willingly starve."
The actress arose and rung the bell.
"Oh! it is nothing to me, Mrs. Fairfax. Do as you ease.
I have no earthly interest to serve in persuading you to this
step," she said, with the old, cross, querulous look on her
haggard face, and in her beautiful dark, gray eyes.
Bertha came in and cleared away the table.
Mrs. Knight walked up and down the room in a hasty,
irritated manner.
"I wish I was at work again! I am sick of my holiday
already! Since I cannot afford to abandon this hateful art,
I wish I were always delving at it, and there came no pause
for self-recollectionD I ~vish I were perpetually Queen
Katherine, Mrs, Hailer, Isabella, Imogene, Lady Macbeth,
Bianca Fazio, and the others, going incessantly through the
circle like the earth through the signs of the zodiac. I wish
I were always somebody else, anybody else than poor Ida
Knight." And she threw herself into a chair, glancing at
Zuleime with a strained, appealing, accusing look. But the


I
( ~
N
I
I
1~

wan face of the dying girl, with its hectic flush, smote the
rock in her heart, and she moved to her side and took her
hand and said, gently, though with the same tone and look
of querulous suffering, "It is a wretched life! I feel it so-
only it is not so bad as starving, and seeing your child starve.
My dear, it is something to me whether I persuade you to do
this thing or not. I cannot bear to see you suffer so. Your
necessities weigh upon my heart-in addition to my own. And
really," she added, with the same frowning, irritated look,
"really, I have such a burden of my own, that I grow res-
tive under a feather of anybody else's."
"Then do not take my sorrows on your shoulders, dear
lady; I canbear them myself, or die under their weight un-
complainingly. Do not take my troubles to heart !" said
Zuleimo, gently.
The actress looked up with a sharp, rebuking glance, say-.
ing-.
"As if I could help it! You are not sincere when you
ask me to do so! No, the only way I can get your griefs off
my heart is to get them off your own. I must get you into
living circumstances. I must persuade you to go onthe stage
with me. It is not a pleasant profession for a lady, I grant
you-neither is freezing or starving, and getting into debt
and being dunned and rebuffed, pleasant-.-but---" she added,
with a look of almost fierce s~lf.assertion and self'~defence-
"ne~er is it actually sinful, that I know of. It necessarily
tran~resses no command of God with which I am acquainted.
One need not be a heathen because she\ is an actress. Mrs.
Siddons was a member in full com~un~on with the Church
of England. The stage has its dangers, I grant yo~i, but you
may safely pass through them; if you please. I have done so!
I was not born or brought up to that life, my dear; I was the
daughter of an ]3~nglish country curate-then a nursery go-
verness-then a traveling' companion to an earl's daughter
-then I accidentally met with my husband, and we married
from mutual affection. He was a tragedian-that is the way
in which I became an actress. Now I follow the histrionic
profession as the only means of living left open to me. I
have seen the dangers-nay, I have felt them. But nightly
-no matter how utterly wearied out with toil I may have
been, I have uttered two lines of sincere prayer, that God
would keep me from falling into deeper sin. And He has
kept me! Does that surprise you? God is the God of the

publican as well as of the Pharisee. Who dares excommuni-
cate mc? What child of the Universal Father shall dare to
say that another is excluded from His love and care and pro-
tection ~ Verily, the day of Judgment will be a day of
startling revelations. And many that are first shall be last,
and the last shall be first." And then the actress fell into
silence, and her fine Countenance lost that look of captious
self-defence, and settled into meditative earnestness.
Zuleime arose to go. Mrs. Knight took her hand, rind
said, gently-
"My dear, think over what I have proposed to you. If
you decide to accept my proposition, I will take every pos-
sible care of you. You shall be as my own daughter. I
will shield you from all dangers. I will instruct you
in your art. And I will give you the freedom of my ward-
robe. Good-night. Will you kiss me
And she drew Zuleime tq her bosom. The poor girl
pressed her lips to those of the actress, and slipping through
the door, passed up in the dark and cold to her own
room.
Ida welit to bed, but the poor, generous, irritable woman
could not sleep for sympathy, for anxiety, and for the sound
of Zuleime's racking cough. "She will never be able to
sing much, I am really afraid. But she shall be paid well
for dressing~ and for making her beautiful face and form a
part of the pageantry-thiat I am determined upon, if I 4mave
any influence with the management," thought Ida, a~she
sank to sleep.
Rusty and threadbare clothing, broken shoes, cold, hun-
ger; and a suffering child, are fQ~ible arguments, and
they seconded the persuasions of Ida with tremendous
power.
Zuleime yielded, and was carried down the current of fate
as easily, with as little resistance as the sapling beaten down
by the rain, uprooted by the wind, an4 carried off by the
flood, is whirled down the stream.
It was the fatal night of the 26th of December, 1811,
the night of the burning of the Richmond Theatre, a night
ever to be remembered in the annals of that city, and ever
to be mourned in the hearts of her citizens. That evening
more than six hundred- lovers of pleasure were gayl~y pre-
paring~for the theatre; not dreaming, alas! that they aleo
were doomed to take fearful part in an awful tragedy-a

66             TIlE CURSE OP CLIFTON.                               TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          67

WI

I      I
I
/
V
~t~A

I

66

67


-~ p
(C
I
A:'
I'
I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

69

68                  TUE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
tragedy unprecedented in the history of the stage. Before
eight o'clock, more than six hundred persons, from pleasant
'city homes all around, assembled in the fated building; be-
fore twelve o'clock, more than one hundred had perished
horribly in the flames! and the scarcely surviving five hun-
'dred, many wounded, maimed, or burned, all despairingly
mourning the awful fate of nearest relatives and friends, re-
turned or' were borne back to their desolate homes!
That afternoon, unprophetic of doom as any of the others,
Zuleime and her friend were preparing to go on the stage.
Zuleime had no part to perform-she was as yet only an
attachi-and was to-appear but in one scene, as one of a grouj
of villagers. She was engaged in fixing up a peasant dress,
consisting of a straw hat, black spencer, short gray skirt,
and striped stockings. Mrs. Knight was, as usual, doing two
things at once-arranging her costume and studying her part.
But the eyes of Ida often wandered towards Zuleime, as she
heard that hacking, racking cough, and she noticed with pain
the waning face. Yes! within a few days even, the thin
face had become perceptibly thinner, and the flushed cheek
burned with a darker crimson. "And she will in e a sorry
looking peasant," thought Ida;' "a very sorry peasant, with
that delicate, spiritual, almost arial face and form of hers. -
How absurdly inappropriate are most of the affairs we get
up! Truly, our art is in therear of all others. Now, this
evening, all go on as villagers-vulgar and refin~id-all
reduced to one level. Those coarse, brawny Miss Butchers,
and this fragile, delicate Zuleime, all peasants-very well
for the Miss Butcher~but for Zuleime! To-morrow evening
all go on as fairies; e' " llent well for this aerial Zuleime, but
for the Miss Butchers. Well, our notions are fanciful as
arbitrary-and there may be peasants who have delicate,
white, semi-transparent fingers, and there may be fairies with
large, flat feet, and great red hands, foi aught we know."
While Mrs. Knight silently cogitated, and covered her white
satin shoes anew~ and studied her part, Zuleime worked on
also in silence, but too despairing, too exhausted, even
to think of the wayward fate which had brought her to this -
pass.
At about sunset their preparations were completed. Ida,
as usual, rang for her cup of coffee and her errand boy, and
packed up and sent away the costume for the evening. Then
~he put her own little girl and Zuleime'~ child to 0leep to-

getiier in her bed, and got Bertha .to promise. to look in, in
1 he ~~ourse of the evening, and see that all was safe. And
ihen poor Ida carefully wrapped Zuleime up in her own man-
tifla, and wound her own furs around her neck, saying, in
answer to all expostulation-
"Never mind me, riiy dear! I've got no cough. Hag-
gard as I look, I'm whit-leather! You must take care of
your poor little self."
And then they left the house, walking briskly through
the biting air, and crunching the crusted snow under their
quick footsteps. Though but little after sunset, owing to
the heavy clouds, it was almost dark when they hurried.
along the streets. There was the usual number of foot-pas-
serigers abroad, and once, as the slight figure of a man in a
military cloak swiftly hurried past, Mrs. Knight felt her arm
suddenly grasped with spasmodic force by her companion,
and turning around, she saw the face of Zuleime deadly
pale.
"Why, what is the matter, my dear child ?"
"Nothing, nothing !" said Zuleime; "let us hurry on."
"But~you are trembling like an aspen leaf! You have
walked too far-you are not strong enough for this evening's
work; let me take you home again."
"No, no, no, no! let's go on !"      -
"Why, Zuleime__"
"Oh, it is nothing-nothing when you hear it! I-I felt
the presence of one long dead! It was weak nerves, or fancy,
'or perhaps the prescience of one, on the confines of the unseen
world. Let us hasten on."
They hurried along. In the meantime, he who had passed
them, the slight man in the military cloak, walked on down
the square, suddenly stopped, muttered to himself, "Absurd!'
impossible !" then went on again, again stopped, as by an
irresistible impulse, turned and rapidly retraced his steps,
after the two ladies in black,- overtook them, was close be-
hind them, hilt not placing any confidence in what he termed
his own wild thoughts, he dared not accost or peep under the
bonnets of two reserved and closely veiled women. But he
kept them in sight until he saw them enter the side door of
the theatre. Then he asked a door-keeper--
"Who are those ~"
"Two of the ladies attached to the theatre," replied the
man.
VOL. II.-6

Ix I

'I ' /


70

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

*
I
(
t
A4
4)
~   jy
'N
~
N (
A

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            71

"Fool that I was !'~' exclaimed Frank Fairfax, as he
turned away.
Captain Fairfax had reached Richmond that day at noon-.-
too late, by half a day, for the stage to I , whither he
would have gone, if possible, on the wings of the wind. His
mother, warned by the newspapers, had been daily expecting
his arrival, and was prepared to receive him when he pre-
sented' himself. He had spent the whole afternoon with her
at Fairview House, and in the evening had walked out to
book his place in the next day's stage for L.-..-.---.. It was
when hurrying along on that errand, that he passed so near
his wife, electrifying her with his unknown. presence, and
being himself drawn to follow, and to hover near her all the
evening. For when he had turned from the theatre, and
hurried onand reached the stage office and secured his place,
finding out that the coach did not start till three o'clock the
next morning, he said to himself-.
"How on earth shall I contrive to forget some of these
miserable hours that must intervene before Ii ean fly to my
wife? 'My mother's ill-health obliges her to retire early to
bed. If I go back to Fairview House, I shall have the whole
'mansion to myself. I will even go to the theatre, and see
if I can find out among the women ~there the particular
one whose air and gait reminded me so strongly of my Zn-
leiine."
And so to the theatre he went. It was quite' early,. and
he was fortunate 'in securing a seat in the centre of the first
row of boxes, immediately~ in front of the stage. In the. mean-
time, Zuleime had been conducted 'by'Mrs. Knight into the
theatre, and introduced into the eommQn dressing-room of.
the stock actresses. This was a large room, with a broad
shelf or dresser running around three sides of the walls, and
about four feet from 'the floor. This ~served as bureaus,
dressiug~tables, 'and wash.-stands 'for nine women, each of the
three sides'being occupied by .three, who equally divided the
shelf, each one having her hand-boxes under the shelf, and
her looking-glass on top 'of it, leaning. against the wall,
'and her wash-basin, jars of rouge, boxes of powder, pots of
poniatum, etc., standing around it. On introducing her
companion into~ this apartment, 'Mm's. Knight said.-
"All women belonging to the theatre use this as a co~n-
mon dressing-room, except the ballet girls,, who have one to

themselves, and the stars, who have separate and well fur-
nished rooms.~~
About half a dozen women were present now, each before
~her own glass, with her own tallow candle, niaking her
toilet.
"Who's that, Knight, that you've got there 'I" asked a
coarse-featured, 'black-eyed girl, who always played the
hoyden, or the wit, and fondly believed herself a proficient
in the Rosalind and Beatrice line. "I say, Knight! is that
the young 'lady?"' she repeated, turning around with a
little wad of raw cotton, dipped in carmine, between her
finger and thumb, and exhibiting a face in process of being
rejuvenated-namely, with one young and. blooming ebeek,
and one prematurely old and sallow.'
"Yes, this is the young lady, Barry," said 1~Irs. Knight,
very gravely, as she led her prot~g~ off to her o~vn' corner 'of
the common dresser.
"I think she might have sent her down with the ballet
girls, as she is really one of them," grumbled a large, im-
portant looking female, arranging a huge turban and curls
upon her head, at the farther end' of the room. Two new
ideas besides that of the common dressing-room and the dress-
ing shelf in general, Zuleime had got-namely, first, that there
really was some very lofty notions of rank and exclusiveness
even among the members of the stock company of a second
rate theatre-secondly, that they really, after all, did not
differ much in that or any other respect from people she had
met in very high society, except, indeed, that' they had the
odious habit of calling each other "Knight" or "Barry,"
as men do, witho~jt a prefix of any sort.
Mrs. Knight dressed herself for her part, as she was to
appear in the early scene in the play, and then gave the use
of her toilet nook to Zuleime. But the cold walk through
the evening air, and the stamiding in the chilly dressing-room,
had so increased her cough, that Mrs. Knight went out. and
sent a call-boy for opium, and' administered a dose. It was
under the inlhience of that stupefier that Zuleime, leaning
on the arm of Mrs. Knight, entered that terra-incognita,, the
green-room. It was a long room, papered, curtained, car-
peted, furnished with sofas and easy-chairs, and warmed by
a fine coal fire-upon the whole it differed in no other re-
spect than its motley crowd, from a large family. parlor.
Mrs. Knight conducted her 'to a corner of the aefa nearest


the fire, and leaving her sitting there, obeyed the' call-boy's
summons, and went upon the~stage. 'Composed into a dreamy
state by the opium, Zuleime sat there while the strange
scene, with its fantastical crowd, passed before her like the
phantasmagoria of a midnight dream. And all this time
Frank sat in the centre box .of the front row, not seeing the
play enacting before him-not thinking of it, only seeing the
turnpike road to I~ . Only thinking of th~ dearest
girl in the world, whom he should meet at the end of his
journey. Paper walls again!
Zuleime remained in the corner of the sofa near the fire
in the green-room, not thinking at all, not even dreaming,
only conscious in a vague dreamy way, that a strange vision,
changing and changing like figures in the kaleidoscope, was
passing before her. She was scarcely aroused by Mrs.
Knight's gentle voice, saying in her ear-
." Come, my dear, it is time for~you to go on now. Come,
don't be afraid Bless you, you are nobody, you know. No
one will look at yotm. You will be only one of a group that
forms a sort of back-ground to the scene. Come, I will go
with you to the side entrance, where the others stand."
Zuleime obeyed mechanically, and was led, between vari-
ous walls of canvas, to a side entrance, at which were
grouped a number of persons in villagers' costume.
"There, 'just go on with the crowd, and stand there; that
is all you have to do," whispered Mrs. Knight, as she left
her.
And at the same moment the group moved on, carrying
the somnolent Zuleime with them, and she found herself in a
dazzling glare of light, and heard the deafening rant of a
stentorian lunged actor near her, and grew painfully con-
scious of the many hundred eyes upon the scene, upon her-'
self, perhaps-and dared not raise her eyes an instant from
the floor, upon which, with a deeply burning cheek, they
were fixed. But suddenly an attraction-a fatality.A.~I know
not what.*~-hut something stronger than her fear, stronger
than her will, drew her glance up to the centre box of the
front row, and her eyes met Frank's .eyes. Yes, there he
sat, gazing at her, astonished, fixed, spell-bound as by a
night-mare, without the power of moving or waking. She!
she too, gazed for a moment. She was not astonished at
seeing him there, any more than she would have been aston-
ished at dreaming of seeing him anywhere. It was all like

a wild dream, everything! It seemed not unnatural that he
5hoald form a part of it. Only to her weakened and half-
stupefied brain, the last, nearest event was the most distinct
-and so, strangely, she did not think of hi~ death or life,
but only of the reproach. she had brought upon him, her
proud Frank, in appearing there !' and covering her face with
I both hands, she sank. to her knees upon the floor.
It was lucky the drop-curtain fell just then. It was lucky
the audience took that by-scene for a partr of the play. But~
to Zulejine it was still like a fever-dream, from which she
tried to wake. Like a dream the &amp;op-curtain' had rolled
down. But not like a dream was the rough seizure of her
arm by a girl who set her upon her feet, and said, in a not.
unfriendly tone-
"What did you do that for ~ T1za~  wasn't a part of your
part."
"I-I-.have," began Zuleimne, passing her hand back and
forth across her forehead, "I have been taking opium to stop
my cough. I-never was used to it, and I think it has be-
wildered me a little; don't yow think so
"I think something has! Wake up, and try' to listen to
what is going on. Mr. -~ is going to sing now. Come
off."
As the girl led her' away between the walls of canvas,
one of those insignificant incidents occurred, upon which
nevertheless the fate of hundreds sometimes hang. Away
among the back scenes through which they passed to reach
the green-room, there was a chandelier hanging flaring in the
draught. A boy seeeined busy with it.
"Hoist it up higher, sir, why don't you P' exclaimed one
of the players, who happened to come up~
"If I do, it will' set fire to the scenes," replied the boy.
"Confound your insolence, do you think I woi4d gWe you
the order, if there were the least danger ~ Do as you arc
directed, sir.~~
The boy obeyed; and the scenery instantly took f~i. The
chandelier was hastily drawn down; the alarm was given in
the rear of the stage, and a scene shifter directed to cut the
cords by which the combustible material was suspended. But
the mm became panic-struck and fled.
The performers and their assistants in vain sought to tear
down the scenery.~ The canvas was covered with a resinous
composition, and th~ draught of wind was strong; and Zn-
6*

4

72             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.             73.

73

72


74             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON

leime and her companioD were swiftly encircled by walls of
blazing canvas. The strong girl, terror-stricken, left her
weak companion and fled. And the poor invalid, forgotten
by all in the terror and confusion; sank down overpowered,
suffocated by th~ heat and smoke. All this had happened
in less than three minutes from the raising of the chandelier.
And at this time one of the performers was playing near
the orchestra, and the greater part of the stage, with its ap-
palling danger, was fatally concealed from the t(udience by
the curtain. The flames spread with the rapidity of light'.
fling; and the first notice the audience had of their danger,
was the fire falling ~ from the ceiling upon the head of the
performer Even then many supposed it to be a p~art of the
play, and were for a short time restrained from flight by a
cry from the stage that there was no danger. IBut soon the
fire flashed in every part of the house with a rapidity hor-
rible and appalling. Then terror seized upon the hearts of
all, and the audience broke up in confusion. Those in the
pit escaped by the pit entrance, and were every one saved.
Those in the boxes, who, had they known it, might at first
have escaped by way of the pit, all turned and hurried to'.
wards the only door of egress into the lobby. This door
was unfortunately hung to open on the inside. And this
circumstance was fatally overlooked by the frenzied crowd,
who pressed and pressed against the door, trying to push it
open, but really keeping it fast closed. The fire advanced
upon them, filling the house with suffocating smoke, and with
flame that seized the clothing of those behind, goading them
horribly to still more frantic pressure upon those before.
The most frightful uproar ensued; women shrieking, pray-
ing-men groaning, expostulating; all crowding one upon
another, or rather hundreds upon hundreds, and all pressing
towards the door that would not yield. The pit was now a
lake of fire, darting out huge tongues of flame that wound
themselves around the forms of the hindmost, who fell
shrivels into the blaze. Then arose cries of horror, an-
guish and despair-children crying for lost parents, and pa-
rents calling in agony upon the names of missing children-
for in the fierce pushing and struggling for life, parties got
separated and -families divided-children forced from the
piirents, women from their protectors, and the weaker un-
consciously thrown down and trampled to death by the strong.
Many, half roasted, dropped into the ,burning pit; many

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.              75
with their garments in flames, maddened by pain and terror,
threw themselves headlong from the windows, and met an-
other death. Many even chanced to save their lives in that
way at the cost of broken limbs. And at last the door
yielded; and as many as possible escaped that way; but to
what a life; alas! darkened forever by the memory of dearest
relatives and friends who perished in the fire. The whole
building was now in flames. In less than an hour all was
over. Naught remained but a heap of smoking ruins; and
around them the agonized crowd of those who liVed and
raved-and around these again, an awe-struck, mourning
city.


76              THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                    TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          '77

CHAPTER XXV.
"IN PALACE CHAMBERS."
She sleeps: her breathings are not heard
In palace chambers far apart,
The fragrant tresses are not stirred
That lie upon her ~harmed heart.
She sleeps: on either side upswells
The downy pillow lightly prest;
She sleeps, nor dreams, hut only dwells
A perfect form in perh~ct rest.-TENNYSON.
THE spell that bound Captain Fairfax, when he recognized
his wife upon the stage, was broken by the fall of the drop
curtain. He instantly left the boxes and hastened around
behind the scenes. After many bt4ilesl inquiries, and many
misdirections, he prosecuted his sear alone, and at length
found her prostrate form. The wind had blown the smoke
and flame in' another direction, and she lay there uninjured,
though insensible, and in extremity of danger. He raised
her, threw his cloak around her, ran with her into the fresh
air, called a hackney coach, placed her in it, jumped in and
tool his seat by her side, drew her insensible form within his
arms, upon his bosom, and directed the coachman to drive
rapidly to Fairview House. As they passed swiftly through
the streets, the cry of "Fire! fire! fire !" rung through the
air, but he scarcely heard it. The rushing of crowds of
people in the opposite direction to that in which they were
driving, frequently impeded the progress of the carriage, but
he scarcely knew it. All his senses, all his thoughts, all his
emotions were absorbed in the ~entlc form that lay swooning
on his bosom. And "Oh! how thin she is! how thin, good
Heaven !" he groaned many times, as he held his arm around
the fragile waist, or felt the emaciated arm and hand, or
pressed his cheek against the wan face. "How thim she is,
good Heaven, how thin! Is this illness? Illness unto death,
perhaps! Drive fast, coachman! Fast!" He longed to lay
her at rest upon her bed, that he might perchance silence his
anxiety. And-" Faster, coachman! Faster !" he continued

to cry, whenever the thickening crowd arrested 4ie progress
of the carriage.
At length they reached Fairview House. He lifted her
out and bore her into the hall. His mother had retired to
rest long since; but he rang the bell violently, and said, to
the astonished servants, who came at the summons-
"Go instantly and prepare a room for my wife. I have
but just saved her from the burning theatre !'? The wonder..
struck maids h~iirried to obey. "Stop! Don't disturb your
mistress, on your lives," he said, and with this warning, dis-
missed them. To one of the men present, he exclaimed,
"" Run instantly to Doctor Cummings, and ask him to hurry
The man disappeared to obey. And during the issuing of
these orders, Frank Fairfax was sitting on the sofa, sustain-
ing the fainting form of his wife with one arm, while with
the other hand he unlaced thc velvet bodice. Presently one
of the maids returned and announced that the room was
ready. And Frank raised and carried his precious burden
'up stairs, into a pleasant front chamber, and laid her on a
bed. Then, with the assistance of one of the women, he got
off the stage dress, and supplied its place with one of his
mother's white wrappers, brought for the purpose by one of
the maids.
He had scarcely done this, when the chamber door opened,
and old Mrs. Fairfax entered, roused up by the noise in and
outside the house. She came in, wrapped in a flannel dress*
ing-gown, and saying, anxiously-
"My dear Frank! they tell me that the Richmond The-
atre is on fire. I am so grateful that you are not there. Ah!
what is this? Who is that ?" she asked, perceiving the form
~of Zuleime upon the bed, and advancing towards it. "Some
sufferer you have saved from the fire, my dear Frank? God
bless your brave, kind heart, my dear boy. But you should
not have brought her in here-.or you should not be here
~yourself. Retire, and leave the lady to the care of myself
my women," coReluded the lady, gravely.
"My dearest mother, yes! She is a sufferer I have saved from
the fire! a most beloved sufferer! my wife! my wife! Dear-
est mother, I cannot leave her! I have a right to stay here."
Here followed a wild, hasty disclosure of his imprudent
marriage, kept secret up to that n~oment. And ~then timid
the grief and surprise of Mrs. Fairfax, he also learned the

I,

C.

yrs


78              TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                      TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

fact of Mr. filifton's death, and of Zuleime's disappearance
and suspected suicide. In bitter self-reproach, Frank had
made his confession-~--in deepest sorrow, he heard his mother's
revelations.
"How much she must have suffered! Good Heaven! how
much she must have suffered! he exclaimed. Then almost
madly he cried, "Mother! look at her! Look at her! Oh,
tell me, do you think she can live P'
Mrs. Fairfax had been all this time chafing her temples
with cologne, while the two maids rubbed her hands and feet.
But up to this instant she had given no signs of recovery,
or of consciousness. And the old lady shook her head
mournfully, and plunged Frank into deeper despair. They
persevered in their efforts for half an hour longer, and then
she sighed and opened her eyes. Her husband was bending
over her. She met his eyes, and smiled faintly in recogni-
tion, without astonishment, and without joy-indeed she was
too feeble for either-and murmuring, "Dearest Frank,"*
she sank away again, fainting, they supposed, until her low
breathing revealed that she slept the sleep of utter prostra-
tion. And how changed was now that countenance. The
look of weariness, care and sorrow had vanished, and the~
sweet, wan face wore the easy, confiding air of infancy; and
even in sleep, she must have felt the shelter of protecting love
around her, for often with closed eyes she smiled, as in de-
lighted visions! All night they watched beside her bed while
she slept. In the morning the doctor arrived. He had been
absent all uight, by the couch of one who had been severely
burned at the theatre, and that accounted for failure to
come before morning; now, however, he stood beside the
patient with grave and thoughtful brow.
"Doctor, for Heaven's sake give me some hope of her!
Tell me something about her, at least! Is she ill 'P'
"She is very ill," replied the physician.
"I cannot believe it! I will not believe it! See how
sweetly she sleeps! how comfortably! how free from suffer..
ing!"
"Yes-but, my dear Captain Fairfax, there would be more
hope if there were more suffering-however, the case may be
much more favorable than it appears to me now; I cannot
fully judge of it until she wakes."
"Allow me to arouse her, then! Nay, I wish to do it!
I have not spoken to her yet! Let me wake her now !"

"By no means! It might prove fatal. Indeed, you must
be very careful. Her life hangs by a thread. Sleep will do
her more good now than anything else. When she awakes
naturally, you may send for me at once." And so saying,
the doctor took leave, without even writing a prescription.
Soon after he left the house she opened her eyes again,
and seeing Frank, smiled faintly, and murmured-
"My own-my dearest--dearest husband." And in an
instant her senses seemed swallowed up again in sleep, which
lasted half an hour, at the end of which she awoke again, and
looked around in uneasiness, and breathed, half aloud,-.
"My child-rny baby-..-iny little Fan-" and then sank away
again, as if she were too feeble to retain her hold on con-
sciousness.
"What is she talking about, dear mother ?" inquired
Frank, in the extremity of anxiety, when hehea~d her words.
Mrs. Fairfax shook her head, and said she did not know.
But the woman who waited in the chamber came forward,
and said that if her mistress would excuse her interfering,
she would tell them what the young lady meant.
"Speak on, then, at once, in the name of the Lord !" ex-
claimed Frank, impatiently.
Mrs. Fairfax endorsed his order. And then the woman
informed her mistress that she had known the sick young lady
all the winter by sight-that she had been there at the house
to ask for sewing-~-.that she took in sewing fora living.-that
she lodged at the eabinet~makor's, over the way-and that
she had a little girl almosttwo years old, who was no doubt
at the cabinet-maker's now, which she supposed was what had
made the mother. look around, and inquire so anxiously.
The woman's story was~scarcely over before Captain Fair-
fax seized his hat, and hurried from the room. As soon as
he was gone, Mrs. Fairfax called the woman up before her,
and said-
"Nelly, you heard your master tell me of his marriage
with this young lady V'
"I need not tell you that it is my will that there be no
kitchen gossip about this matter. This young lady-once
Miss Zuleime Clifton, is now, and has been for nearly three
years .pa;st, Mrs. Francis Fairfax, the wife of my son, ~nd is
also your own young mistress. You understand ~"
" Yes, madam.,~

78


80              TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

" Then let there be no idle conversationi about this mar-
riage, if. you would avoid, my severest displeasure."
Farther colloquy was arrested~ by the hurried entrance of
Captain Fairfax, bringing his little wee girl in his arms. Mrs.
Fairfax immediately arose to take her from him, but the
child's quick eyes had recognized her mother lying on the
bed, and she began to clap her hands and call-
"Mamma! mamma !"
Frank held her closely, and tried to still her joyful, eager
cries, but the magical sound of her child's voice had already
awakened the sleeper, and she opened her eyes, and seeing
the babe in its father's arms, smiled a feeble smile of content,
and fell away again into oblivion.
Mrs. Fairfax had the doctor summoned again, and told him
that if he wished to see her daughter-in-law awake, be must
remain at her bedside, for that she only awoke to relapse
instantly into slumber.
~~The physician then took his seat by the bedside of his
patient, and requested all except a maid-servant to leave the
chamber.
Mrs. Fairfax and Frank went out, taking the little girl with
them, and leaving the doctor with the invalid.
After the lapse of an hour, the physician came out and
went down stairs. Captain Fairfax was waiting for him in
the hall, and drew him into the parlor, anxiously requesting
to know his opinion. Perhaps he was really sanguine, and
hoped the doctor's verdict might set his fears at rest. At
any rate the insisted upon knowing the precise state of the
case. The doctor gravely motioned him to sit down, and then
took a seat himself. lie said that his patient was not sinking
so much under any locaLcfisease as under a general atrophy,
for which, considering the circumstances, he could not possibly
account-for, if he had met precisely such a case in the very
lowest walks of life, he should at once have declared that tho
patient had been brought to this state by the want ~f proper
and sufficient food-that, in short, she was dying of a slow
starvation. A deep groan broke from the lips of Francis
Fairfax, and he started up, covered his face with his, hands,
and walked the poor in rapid strh~cs. Suddenly he stopped
before the physician, with a countenance convulsed with grief
and remorse, with all pride and hesitation gone, and exclaim-
ed, in thrilling tones-
"Doctor! suppose her case-my ~ case had been as

80


TIlE CURSE OF CLiFTON.          81

you would ha~re surmised, finding it any where else ?-sup..
pose that for months past she has been starving.-Great God!
-starving !.-Now that th~ cause of this utter failure of the
vital powers is removed-now that she has every thing that
wealth, that th~ most devoted affection can give her, may she
not recruit and live? Oh! tell me
The physician answered sternly~
"I do not know, sir! This tampering with the laws of
life-this pursuing it to the very edge of death is not safe.
Is she inclined to take food at all ?"
"No---only a little gruel, and that mechanically, without
"Exactly-a few days fasting wakes one ravenous, but a
long, partial starvation so exhausts the victim, that he loses
all inclination for food, as well as all power to assimilate it."
The doctor spoke severely.
"Sir! I forgive your sternness and your evident suspi..
dons1 perhaps they are partially just.. If they were other-
wise, God knows I am so stricken that I have scarcely ~
hood enough left to resent them~but oh! tell me-do 'not
evade the question. Can she be restored? and how ?"
"Captain Fairfax, I told you that she was sinking, not so
i~iuch under any local disorder as under general atrophy-
and yet she has a local disease superinduced by this same
slow starvation. Upon examination by the stethoscope, I
find tubereles forming upon the left lung. There is also
morbid action of the heart. You know how it is with phthisis!
With proper care, and under favorable circumstances, the
patient may live for years, perhaps for many years, and die
at length in old age of something else."
"Oh, no care, no pains-nothing that money----nothing
that love can do,, shall be wanting! There is hope ?"
"I dare not say there, is much hope in' this instance. This
atrophy is a very unfavorahl&amp; thing-all our hope is in being
able to save the digestive functions. I have l~ft a prescrip-
took his hat, and saying that he would see the invalid' again
tion, with written directions, above stairs." The doctor
in the afternoon, departed.
"All alike! all alike! They sway from right to left,
raising one's hopes, and thou rousing their fears! He lies!
he lies! It is not so! she is in no danger! Great God!
she must not die! sh&amp; shall not !" So unjustly, wildly, sin-
fully Frank Fairfax talked, walking distractedly up ai~d
VOL. II.-7

81


82             TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

down the floor, convulsed by grief, remorse and fear for
her he loved so strongly, and felt he had wronged so greatly.
He dared not seek her bedside now in his excited state-.he
rushed into his library, locked the door, and gave himself up
to all the power of remorse.
In the~ afternoon he sought the sick room again. And the
deep, sweet peace that pervaded the apartment fell like a
soothing spell upmi his excited nerves. The front windows
were open, for the day was very fine, and the fresh air and the
sunshine came in together, with the cheerful view of the
expanse of water, and the wooded hills across James River.
The coolness of the air was sufficiently tempered by a glow-
ing coal fire in the grate. Zuleime lay raised up with pillows
on the bed, and upon the counterpane by her sat her little
girl. The face of the youthful mother seemed as soft, as
feeble, and as free of care and sorrow as that of the infant
herself. On seeing Frank enter, she smiled a gentle, pleased,
'childish smile, and feebly moved her hand towards him. He
i*~nt to her, at first successfully repressing all his strong
emotions, and kissed, her very gently, but then sank upon
his knees, and dropping his face upon her hand,, burst into
tears, and wept passionately. 11cr other hand wandered
playfully through his curls, and she said, gently-
*       "Don't weep, Frank, please don't-indeed I am happy-
it is so nice t~ be here-~don't weep.
But when men weep and sob, it is no passing shower, like
the easily shed tears of women, but a great gust, shaking all
the nature. So it was a long time before Frank mastered
his emotion. When he recovered, his composure, and arose
and sat by her side and looked at her, he found that'the
hectic fever burned crimspn on her cheeks, and that her
brilliant eyes wandered about deliriously. And he knew
that he had harmed her again. And soon she began to talk
at random, babbling childishly, delightfully, about White
Cliffs, and the forest walks, and the garden. And she a&amp;
dressed her father and sister, as if they were present. And
very lovingly 'she spoke to Catherine; or, coming nearer to
the present moment, talked with Ida about fier feminine
shrinking from appearing upon the stage. Frank listened in
the deepest trouble, and in the wandering of her mind he
learned much that had transpired at White Cliffs, a great deal
that had occurred since her flight thence, and all that he
ought to have known.

82

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            83
When the physician arrived in the evening, he instituted
strict inquiries, and discovered the cause of her high fever.
Then he rebuked the indiscretion of her friends, and leaving
fresh prescriptions, with peremptory orders that the deepest
quiet should be preserved, departed. Her fever unabated
raged all night. In the morning it went off.
Captain Fairfax would not permit himself to enter her
room again until he had obtained the power of perfect self-
control. At about eleven o'clock he went in. The crimson
curtains of the windows were drawn aside, an&amp; the room was
light and cheerful. The white muslin drapery of the bedstead
was festooned, and revealed the fair invalid reclining there,
wan, placid, child-like as ever. She welcomed her husband
with the same soft, faint smile. And he went and sat by her
side, and crushing down all strong emotions, took her hand,
and spoke to her calmly and pleasantly, inquiring how she
felt.
"So well-it is so nice to be here," she answered simply.
And she lay there looking at him contentedly, smiling softly,
answering vaguely when he spoke to her; but never asking
any question; or making any comment; or volunteering any
speech whatever. This pained him more than all-for he
knew that mind as well as body was sinking-lapsing away
into a sort of dreamy, happy fatuity. And all attempts to
rouse her from that state only threw her into fever, and
often into delirium.
One day, with a view to interest without exiting her, he
inquired-
"Dearest, is there any one you would like to see ~"
"Yes-Ida," she said.
"And who is Ida, love !" asked Frank, very cautiously
and gently, for he felt as if he were running the risk of
hurting her again.
"Ida! La! don't you know ~ She was so good to me,
she replied, with a pitying smile.
Captain Fairfax left the room, and at a venture went over
to inquire at the cabinet-maker's. And he soon returned,
accompanied by Mrs. Knight. Zuleime received her visitor
without any emotion whatever; smiling gently, and holding
out her hand, and afterwards lying and silently and pleasantly
watching her as she sat by the bed. And when she arose to
take leave, she put up her lips for a kiss. Poor Ida pressed


84              TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           85

those lips very gently, and then quietly left the room; but
as soon as she had passed the door, burst into tears.
Every day Zuleinie's mind flowed away. Every day she
became more infantile in weakness and simplicity. One day
she made known a wish-the only one she had ever volun-
tarily expressed. It was affecting from its utter childishness.
"Dear Frank, you and your mother are rich. I want
you to bring Ida an4 her child home to live here, so that she
may not have to go on the stage any more." She reverted
to this subject so frequently, repeating this, the only wish
she had ever expressed, so often and earnestly, that her hus-
band felt strongly inclined to gratify her desire, strange as
it really was. He consulted his mother, and they concluded
that it might be done, in a measure. Then they told her
that it should be as she wished; that Ida and her child should
come and live with them, if she would. Captain Fairfax
went agti~n to the cabinet-maker's, saw the poor actress, and
told her that his wife needed a female companion to sit with
her a portion of the day, and that she would hear of no one
for the post but her old friend, Mrs. Knight, if Mrs. Knight
would come and name her own salary. And when he had
let slip that last wordy he turned away his face with his fore-
head burning under the astonished, indignant gaze of those
proud, dark eyes of Ida's, as she said-
"Captain Fairfax, II receive a 'salary' in the regular line
of my profession, when I am engaged in it; as Captain
Fairfax also receives pay for his military services-but as he
would spurn all offers of pecuniary remuneration for atten-
tions to 'a #wounded comrade, so should I decline all compen-
sation for attentions to a sick neighbor; and- I am most
surprised that you should have made such a proposal to me."
So was Captain Fairfax himself really surprised that he
should have been betrayed into such an error, as to forget
that the very profession of the poor tragic actress really fos-
tered a morbid pride. Her phrases might have been a little
stilted after the manner of the stage, but the sentiments were
really true and high, and worthy of all consideration. So Cap-
tain Fairfax apologized, as he best could, and ai~ose to take
his leave. Then she said-.~-
"Do not quite misunderstand me. I am very anxious to
do all in my power to serve Mrs. Fairfax, for I love her
dearly! II am willingjo devote all my time, night and day,
to her service, for the affection I bear her. And I can do it

now; for since the burning of the theatre I have been dis-
engaged."
Captain Fairfax replied by expressing his grateful ac-
knowledgments of her kindness, and beggihg her to come
over frequently to see his wife. Then he took leave, indeed
and returned home, with the determination to ask his mother
to go and invite Mrs. Knight to come and spend a few weeks
with her friend at Fairview House. Old Mrs. Fairfax bad
quite a struggle with her Virginian prid&amp; and prejudices, be-
fore she could make up her mind to ask an actress to become
her gttest, but benevolence conquered, and as whatever she
once resolved upon doing she did graciously and gracefully,
she called upon Mrs. Knight, and gave her the invitation in
a manner that insured its* acceptance. Ida, with her little
girl, came over the next day. And the old lady felt fully
i2ewarded for her self-conquest, when she saw the smile of
childish delight with which the gentle patient greeted her
poor friend.
"See, Ida, murmured Zuleime, as her visitor seated her-
self at the bedside, "see, Ida, we are both now in the nice
house we used to look at so longingly from our poor, back
windows." She paused from weakness, and then said, "I
used to call it my Heaven, you know! Ah, I did not know
it was really my Heaven. I did not know Frank had ever
lived here-how strange!" She paused again, but this time
from thought, as well as from exhaustion, and then she took
breath and said again, "I never could make it out clearly,
and it makes my head ache to try. iBut see, dear Ida. Look
at the crimson windowwcuttains-don't you know they are
the very same crimson curtains that used to throw the warm,
red glow across the snow, when we used to sit at the back
window and watch them, and almost envy the people that
lived here 'i"
"Yes, I know, but do not talk too much, darling."
"I won't-but it is so strange. There, look through the.
windows, you can see our little, narrow, pinched, back win-
dows, with their check curtains, as plainly from here, as we
used to see these from there. We did not think we should
ever get here to live, did we i-how strange !"
Her talk, rambling as it was, revealed one hopeful fact-
that her mind was at length waking up. Frank saw it with
joy. Day by day, from this time, her intellect seemed to
7*

I

85


86             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                                  87

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

clear and strengthen. Frank spoke of this to the doctor,
who heard him with great gravity, and without comment.
As winter advanced towards spring, her mind "brightened
more and more towards the perfect day." She had gleaned,
partly from scraps of speech carelessly dropped, and partly
by inquiry, the history of Frank's captivity among the Shos-
honowas, that first originated the report of his death-and
she was very gradually brought to understand the true posi-
tion of affairs-so gradually through so many weeks, that
the knowledge may be said rather to have slowly grown upon
her. But as her mind cleared and strengthened, her heart
became saddened and depressed. She understood too much
now for her happiness. She no longer lay and watched her
husband with a delighted smile as he sat beside her bed-.
- no, but rather with a look of earnest, mournful love. Well
she might. Frank was sad enough-he thought his heart
was breaking.
One day, while lying propped up by pillows, she heard the
name of Mrs. Georgia Clifton mentioned.
"Is she in the city ?" inquired she.
"Yes, love," replied her husband.
"Send fbr her to come and see me-I must see her."
Captain Fairfax arose and left the room immediately, and
instead of sending a servant, went himself to bring Mrs.
Georgia. For so great was his desire to gratify promptly
every wish of his loved one's heart, that he seldom trusted
the execution of them to apy but himself, lest they should
fail or be delayed. It was well in this instance, at least,
that he went in person. A servant could not have effected
the purpose. The conscience-stricken Georgia would not
have ventured to come. Even when unannounced) by rea-
son of this haste, Captain Fairfax entered her parlor, the
beauty turned deadly pale, under the fear of detected guilt.
But when she saw his calm, kind manner, and heard him en-
treat, as a favor, that she would put on her bonnet imme-
diately, and return with him to see his wife, who was
extremely ill at Fairview, the sorceress was re-assured, and
with her usual bewitching grace consented to accompany
him.
When they arrived at Fairview House, and were shown
up into the sick chamber, the patient smiled and held out her
hands. Georgia hastened towards her, and seized both hands,
covering them with kisses, and making a show of great emo-

tion. Zuleime raised her feeble voice, and begged all to go
out of the room, and leave her alone with her visitor. And
when every one had departed, and the door was closed, she
said--
"Sit down, please, here by my bedside." Mrs. Georgia
took the nurse's arm-chair. "Dear Georgia," she said,
gently taking both her hands, and looking kindly in her face,
"I sent for you, because I thought you must be so unhappy
about what you have unintentionally caused me to suffer.
And I wished to tell you not to remember it in bitterness
any more. Oh! I grieve so much at the memory of what I
have made my dear father suffer, that I can feel for others
who are tortured by remorse, and I would not, for the whole
world, that any one should mourn for what they have caused
me to suffer. So, dear Georgia, I acquit you ot~ allj blame,
from the bottom of my heart, indeed I do-and I pray that
God may make you happier than I have ever ~been. And I
will never, never drop a hint, by which any one shall sus-
pect-I mean I will never let fall a word to any one, that
shall injure you, Georgia. I would not die and bequeath
you so bitter a legacy as an enemy. Though I knew you
would not come and ask me, I sent for you to assure you of
this, Georgia, and to reconcile myself with you, that we might
be friends before I die. And now, God bless you! Kiss me,
and say good-bye, for my fever is rising.
And she held up her lips. Georgia was weeping.
"Zuleime, my dear child, why don't you call me, mamma~
as heretofore V' she asked.
"Oh, don't you know long ago you told me not to do it:
But I will, if you wish it, now. Kiss me, dear mamma.
There, now, go and be at peace.
Georgia hurried from the room. They never met again.
Zuleime revived slightly when the spring opened~ She
had heard that her sister Carolyn had nearly recovered her
health, and was just about to set out on her voyage home.
And two secret wishes the poor girl indulged: once more to
visit White Cliffs, and to live to see her only sister' again.
flut she kept them to herself in the fear of giving Frank
trouble, for she knew that he would try to move Heaven and
earth to please her, and deeply grieve if he should fail. She
concealed her wants, but they were discovered by him who
watched day and night to anticipate her wishes. 'And Cap-
tain Fairfax called upon the fiunily physician, and consulted

4

86

87


88             TflE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

him upon 'the possibility of taking Zuleime to White Cliffs,
as soon as the spring weather should be permanently settled.
The physician's opinion was highly favorable to his wishes.
lie said that she might be removed by easy stages to the
country, and that if proper care and attention were bestowed,
the Journey and the change of air would probably be found
very beneficial to her health. Captain Fairfax hastened
home to cheer his wife with the news. And she was glad~
dened by it. She caught both his hauds and kissed them,
and held them to her face, and looking at him fondly, said-.
"Dear Frank! dearest Frank! you try to perform mira-
cles for me ~
The same night, Captain Fairfax wrote to Mrs. Clifton, of
]Iiardbargain,. to go over to White Cliffs and prepare to re-
ceive the invalid. And from that day Zuleinje revived, and
by the first of June was so much better, as to be able to be
placed in th. comfortable family carriage, in which, some-
times reclining upon downy cushions, sometimes resting upon
the bosom of her husband, and supported by his arms, she
traveled by easy stages to White Oliffs. They reached the
end of their journey upon the afternoon of the third day.
Mrs. Clifton and Catherine were there to receive them. Zu-
leime was lifted out of the carriage, very much exhausted.
Yet, as she was gently carried through the yard, her eyes
roved gladly over all the dear familiar scene-over moun-
tains, fields and forests, clothed now in the luxuriant foliage
of June-and all her countenance lighted up with joy, and
she exclaimed many times in tones of profound gratitude-
"Thank, God! oh, thank God!"
She was carried up stairs, and put to bed at once. And
Catherine was stationed to watch her slumbers, while Mrs.
Clifton remained below to attend ~o the comfort of the tired
travelers. But Ziileime frequently awoke with a joyful start
and recollection; and once she put her hand in that of Kate,
and said-
"Dear Kate! blessed Kate! I am so glad to see you
again! An&amp;so very glad to be home again! Sweet Sister
of Mercy! will you stay and nurse me also? I think you
could ahnos~ cure me! Sweet, unprocessed nun, will you
stay and nur~e me, too ?"
"Yes, dear Zuleime, I will stay as long as you want me.
But shut those tired eyes, love, and go to sleep."
"Yes, 'seal each eyelid down with a kiss, dear Kate, and

89

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

then they will stay closed. And hold my hand as I go to
sleep-I feel so safe when some one I love holds my hand
while I slumber. I feel as if they could keep me in life while
I slept, for you must know, dear 'Kate, that my heart has a
morbid action, and some of these days I shall fall asleep
lightly as now, but never awake again.
"Dear Zuleime, you must not indulge such fancies."
"They are not fancies, they are realities. I do not de-
ceive myself and trifle with you, Kate. Do not you deceive
me or trifle with me, either. There are secrets of life and
death known only to the dying. Such a secret is mine. I.
know that I shall lightly drop asleep some day, and never
wake again-that is the reason I wish some one I love to kiss
my eyelids down, and to hold my hand while I slumber."
The words, the manner of the dying girl carried deep con-
viction to the heart of Catherine, and.-.-
"Oh! Zuleime," she said, "lean upon the failing arm
of flesh if you will, but, oh, seek! seek the support of
that Almighty arm that can sustain you in life and in death!
Seek that !"
"I will-I wish to do it, or rather you, the handmaid of
the Lord, shall bear me up in yvur .faithful hands, and lay
me within that Arm of Strength. I wished this long agc~,
but, oh, my dear husband and his good mother! they thought
only of restoring me to health, and I could think of nothing
but of trying to live for them, until very lately, when it was
revealed to me that I should surely die. I have' never yet
told Frank anything about this. I feared it would distress
him too much; but the lone knowledge troubled me. I
needed to tell some one of it, some dear one with whom I
could converse confidentially, and who should be wise enough
to counsel me, patient enough to bear with me, courageous
enough to face the result, and who, besides, would not be too
greatly distressed, as my hear husband would. And so,
sweet Kate, I have told you. Will you now stay with me
and nurse me
"Yes, dear Zuleime, as long as you wish me to do so; but
now, darling, if I am to be your nurse, you must mind what
INhave to say to you, and go to sleep." Catherine bent over
her, and kissed her eyelids down upon the. weary eyes, and
held her hand until she fell asleep. At night, Captain Fair-
fax relieved her watch.
The next morning when Catherine entered the roo~m she

88


90              TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
sat down by the side of the bed, and told her that ~she had
good news to tell, that they had received a letter from Major
Clifton, that Carolyn's health was improving, and that they
had embarked, or had purposed to embark upon the first of
May, and expected to reach home as soon as the middle of
June. Zuleime clasped her hands in fervent thanksgiving
while she' listened, and when her friend ceased to speak, she
exclaimed~
"In two weeks she will be here.-oh! that I may live to
see it !"
Kate bade her be of good cheer and hope; and when
Catherine told any one to hope, her words and looks and
manner all inspired ~the feeling. Zuleiine was so recovered
and enlivene~ as to be able to be lifted from her bed and
placed in the easy-chair by the open window, that looked out
upon the mountain scenery, 411 glorious in the light of sum-
mer morning. Old Mrs. Fairfax, and Mrs. Clifton of Hard-
bargain, came in to pay her a visit, bringing her little girl
with them. As for Captain Fairfax, he seldom left her side.
All congratulated the invalid upon her improved health and
spirits, and hoped and foretold great results from her resi-
dence in the country, and projected many pleasant drives,
when she should be a little rested from the fatigue of her
journey. Then they talked of 'Major Clifton and Carolyn's
expected arrival, and laid out extensive plans of amusement
to be put in execution when they should come, by which time
Zuleime also would be considerably restored. Thus cheer..
fully, hopefully they talked. And the dying one listened
sweetly ; ~but when she found herself alone again with Kate,
she said-.
"I let them talk, Catherine, for if they really have any
hopes of my recovery, I do not wish to destroy those hopes
by telling what I know, and if they only talk so to cheer me,
why even then I do not like to make them sad by not seem-
ing to believe them. And yet, and yet, perhaps I ought to
tell Frank; perhaps I will !"
Catherine devoted herself to the service of the invalid,
laboring zealously for her spiritual as for her bodily good.
Indeed, the girl glided into the performance of such duties as
naturally as if she felt herself especially called to the work,
born for the work. The selfish ~Vish for her own comfort and
pleasure had never been very strong in the heart of Cathe~
rine; 4nd within the last two years it seemed to have ex-

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

91

pired. She lived only for the good of others. She had grown
to believe that there was no individual happiness for herself,
except in the service of others. Young hope had died out in
her heart, she was resigned. She adopted the submissive
words of Mary and her Son, and said, within her heart, in
deepest sincerity-
"Behold, the handmaid of the Lord." "Not my will, but
Thine, oh God."
Zuleime was lifted from the bed to the easy-chair every
morning, and calmly and profoundly the invalid enjoyed those
glorious summer mornings. But she was failing very fast.
She grew very anxious for the coming of her sister; but, un-
willing to disturb any one by her anxiety, she confided it
only to Kate. They had not heard from Major Clifton since
the letter announcing his expected embarkation. They justly
supposed him to be on his voyage home, accompanied by
Carolyn, and were now daily looking for a letter announcing
their landing, and their speedy arrival home. The middle of
June passed, and no letter had comet The first of July ar-
rived, but brought no news of the voyagers.
"Oh, if they had come when they promised, they might
have seen me before I died-but I cannot hold out much
longer, Kate. I feel as if the longing to meet Carolyn again
had kept me up as by the excitement of expectation, but,
Kate, I feel very weary, very much inclined to droop, yet
know if I should give way I should drop into the arms of
Death. I wish they would come. I want to see Carolyn. I
want to see her happiness with my own eyes. And then it
is not for myself-for if I die before she comes, Carolyn will
take it very much to heart to know that her poor little sister
had been found and had died-so inopportunely, just before
she had got home. I wish they would come."
The second week in July arrived---with three days of cloud,
and rain, and gloom. Zuleime could not leave her bed for
her favorite seat at the window, but Catherine served her
with more love and zeal than ever. The family had as yet
received no news of the travelers, and though they daily
grew more anxious, there was no foreboding in their anxiety.
Sea-voyages at that day were of such uncertain length. All
was no doubt well.
But on the evening of the second rainy day, while Captain
Fairfax and Catherine sat with Zuleime, and all tho other
members of the family were assembled in the summer saloon,

L

.7

/i


92             ~HE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                 TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          93

the door of the latter was quietly opened, and Major Clifton
stood before the astonished circle. His mother advanced to
meet and welcome him. Then she noticed-and they all no~
ticed, that he was clothed in deep mourning. That told the
tale! They welcomed him with affectionate sympathy, but
no one asked a question. Nor did he as yet volunteer a word
of his sorrow's history. It was only the next day that his
mother learned from him how deceptive was the seeming con-
valescence of his wife-how from the day of their embarka-
tion her strength declined-how for weeks their hearts fluc-
tuated betWeen hope and fear, as with the changes of her
flattering disease she seemed better or worse-how when all
thought of life was gone, but one earthly hope possessed her
soul-to die at home ;-of the waning of that last hope-of
the death i~t sea-and, finally, of the lone grave in the ocean
isle, where slept the mortal remains of the haughtiest beauty
that ever trod the halls of a palace.
They would willingly have concealed the fact of her sis-
ter's deceased from the dying girl-no one ventured to tell
her of the event-they fondly believed that she remained in
ignorance of it. But she knew it all from what she saw and
heard. She knew that Major Clifton h~d returned alone, and
she surmised the rest from the sad and tearful faces of all
around her. Yes, she knew it all, as well as any could have
made~ her know it, and in the tender thoughtfulness of her
soul, she would not distress any by asking them questions
relating to the last moment. But from this hour she sank
rapidly. She could no. longer be lifted from her bed without,
fainting~ In deep trouble, Captain Fairfax summoned the
old family physician. When he came, and saw the patient,
his opinion was decidedly formed, and truthfully given-he
said that the Richmond physician had evidently abandoned
the case as hopeless, when he sent her home to die-that her
life had probably been prolonged by her residence in the
country.-.-but that nothing could have saved her-and that
she had now not niany days to live. Captain Fairfax was
almost mad with grief-and all the self-possession and self-
control that he had learned in the long attendance ~1pon her
sick bed well nigh deserted him. It was many hours before
he was sufficiently composed to take his usual place by her
bedside, and then his agonized countenance betrayed the ex-
tent of his suffering. Catherine was sitting by her when he
entered. Zuleime raised her dying eyes, and looking a~t him,

tenderly beckoned him to approach. Then she motioned
Catherine to leave her. When they were alone-she laid her
hand within his own, and looking at him with unutterable
love, said-
"Dear Frank-dearest Frank-I see that you know it all
at last. Dearest Frank, I have known it a long time. Now
let us talk freely and confidentially about it-let there be no
more of that painful mist between us as when you thought only
of my restoration to health, and I knew I was sinking fast
into the grave." She paused a moment, and then said-" I
want so much to comfort you. I have something to say to
you.
his fingers closed upon her hand convulsively. He choked
down his strong, rising emotion, and said-
"Do not try to talk, love, the effort will exhaust your
strength."
"No-no, it will not. I am not so weak as I was when
you came in. Dearest Frank, when you sit by me, and hold
my hand, new life seems to run up my feeble veins, and I
feel stronger. Let me talk, love. Ah! do not look so sad!
It is better as it is, love. It is better I should go. I have
spoiled my own life, and should spoil yours if I should live.
Ah, it is a dreadful thing to occasion the death of any one!
it is an awful thing to cause the death of a father. I caused
the death of the most loving father that ever lived. And,
dearest Frank! though in the struggle, in the bitterness of
poverty, in the pangs of hunger and of cold, and in the pain
and debility of illness, the feeling of compunction has been
diverted, yet-had health returned with prosperity-remorse
would then have darkened all my life; and in ruining my
happiness, would have marred yours. Yes! I have spoiled
my own life. It is well that I should not live to spoil yours,
dearest Frank! I talk not of expiation now. Nothing that
I could do or suffer, would alter the irrevocable past. We
have all one Redeemer-Jesus Christ the Righteous. So I
talk not of expiating the past; though perhaps if any heart
is hardened against me, my early death may soften it. But
let me speak of the future-your future, dearest Frank, and
let me say it is better for all your coming years that I should
die."
"Oh, do not say so, Zuleime-you break my heart."
"Dear Frank, you will grieve for me, I know you will;
but be comforted. You are so young yet. This sorrow will

92

93


94             ~HE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

95

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

pass like a morning cloud, and leave all your life a long
bright day." She paused abruptly-a gray shadow swept
darkly over her face and vanished, lie did not see~ it, his
face was buried in his hands. Then she asked to have her
child brought to her. Frank went out, but soon returned to
say that little Fan had been put to bed; and to ~sk her if
the child should be waked up. "No, do not wake the poor,
little thing," she said, and then added, "I am very, very
sleepy, Frank; dearest Frank, kiss my eyelids down to
slumber like you always do, and hold my hand till I fall
asleep. Kiss my lips, too, this time; kiss them last of all-.
-there-good-night, love." Her voice sank away in a low,
inaudible murmur, Like a dying sound on the Eolian harp.
Her husband sat and held her hand, never moving, scarcely
breathing, lest he should disturb her long, deep sleep. He
sat there more than an hour. The room grew dark with the
shades of evening; and when at length Catherine entered
with the night lamp, he raised his hand with a sign of silence
and caution, murmuring-
"She has fallen asleep~" Catherine approached quietly,
shading~the lamp with her hand, and looked upon the sleeper.
"Hush, be very cautious-.-do not disturb her," whispered
Frank.
The sweet and solemn voice of Catherine gently arose, say-
ing, "Come away, Captain FairfaL Nothing will ever disturb
her more. She has fallen asleep in Je8us."

94

CHAPTER XXVI.
aEORGIA.
The serpent now began to change'
Her elfin blood in madness ran.-kEA~rs.
Two months have passed since the death of the sisters.
To the consternation of the ha~tt toiz of the city, the beautiful
Mrs. Clifton has left Richmond, and come down to mourn
with those that mourn at White Cliffs. With an air at once
of earnest conviction and graceful weariness, she says that it
is "All vanity and vexation of spirit," meaning fashionable
society, spring traveling, and sight seeing; summers at wa-
tering-places among the mountains, or by the sea-side; win-
ters in town, with plays, concerts, balls, dressing, visiting and
waltzing; autumn parties in the country-houses, with eques-
trian expeditions, sailing excursions, and forest rides and
drives, and even the moonlight serenades, and "the slight
flirtation by the light of the chandelier." Mrs. Georgia
speaks the truth. "Vanity" all this undoubtedly is in her.
But entrees nous, the "vexation of spirit" appertains to cer~
tam "small" accounts, ranging from fifty to fifteen hundred
dollars, and sent in by landlords, merchants, jewelers, mil-
liners, etc., people so wanting in delicate perception, as not
to see that the honor of the belle's custom was quite payment
enough in itself for their goods, and so utterly destitute of
classic lore, and the faculty of distinguishing persons, as
actually to draw out on a piece of paper a list of items oppo-
site to a row of figures, with a sum total at the bottom, and
send it to a Circe, as if she were a tradesman, and could un-
derstand it! -Charming Georgia did not even try to compre-
hend such mysterious hieroglyphics. She knew, bewitching
creature! that "where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be
wise." Therefore, to escape duns, to recruit health and
spirits, and, of all things, to console Major Clifton, she has
co~ne down to White Cliffs. The beautiful Georgia presented


(
4
'I

97

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

11t~            TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
herself to the mourning master of White Cliffs in a very de-
precating spirit-she said that she felt her arrival there at
such a moment to be almost an intrusion, but that he would
excuse it, as she had exhausted money and credit, and had no
other home.
"You know," she added, as the tears suffused her large,
dark eyes, "I am like the unjust steward of the parable, 'II
cannot work-to beg I am ashamed.'"
"Except instead of being unjust, you suffer from the in-
justice of others," said Archer Clifton, very gently. lie
said that he considered the entail, which cut off the widow
from any share in the landed estate of her deceased husband,
very unjust and cruel. He knew that his uncle had deeply
regretted it, and would have left all his personal property to
her, had it not been swallowed up by debt. He said that he
himself deplored the circumstance, and if it wefb legally in
his power, he would ~divide the land with her, but that he
only held it in entail, and as entire as it came to him it must
be held for his heirs. He added, that he considered it his
duty to compensate his uncle's widow for the injustice of the
law to her, and that the case being so, she would find thirty
thousand dollars placed to her account in the Bank of Rich-
inond., Mrs. Georgia was overcome with emotion at this
generosity on the part of Major Clifton. She put hei~ hand-
kerchief to her eyes, and arose hurriedly, with every mark
of extreme agitation, exclaiming-
"No, no-this is too much! too good! only lend me the
shelter of this roof-once my home-until I look about me
and consider what to do."
He took her hand, with every demonstration of the ten-
derest affection and respect, and pressed it to his lips, and
begged her to consider herself as heretofore, mistress of the
establishment for as long as she wished-for her whole life,
if she pleased-and himself only as her sometime guest-
adding, that it was impossible he should ever bring another
lady there. She withdrew her handkerchief from her eyes,
and glancing at him with a countenance eloquent with grati-
tude, respect, and affection, exclaimed-~
"1 take a large portion of your personal property, and I
turn you from your home! Oh! no, no, no, thou thrice
noble and generous man,, no! Not one dollar of that money
will I touch, so help me Heaven! And not one hour will I
stay under this roof, if the master of the house is to he only

my 'sometime guest!' No! I-I-I must go back to the
city, and give lessons in drawing and painting, as befits the
artist's daughter."
"And as does not befit my uncle's widow, lady !" said
Archer Clifton, again taking her hand. "I have considered
myself in some sort your guardian and protector-if you will
admit the claim. Now, listen to me calmly, and act reason-
ably, for we of White Cliffs are not accustomed to be opposed
by the ladies of our family. Hear me, then: This money,
which I have placed to your account, is rightfully yours. I
will explain. It was the fortune of my dearest Carolyn-"
here his voice faltered, he paused a moment, during which
Georgia pressed his hand, and looked in his face with an ex-
pression of unspeakable sympathy-then he resumed, calmly,
"Had she died unmarried, and during her father's lifetime,
this money would have reverted to him, and he would doubt-
less have left it to you. I only give you that which, but for
me, might have reached you more directly. And now let
that subject rest forever."
"Ab, but best and most generous of friends, I drive you
from your home by staying here! I cannot stay! I must
depart!"
"You must not, Mrs. Clifton-this is your proper home,
as it is also mine. You do not drive me hence-why should
you ~ Could I possibly remain, your company would be the
dearest solace I could have. No! it is memory that drives
me hence, sweet friend! I must-I must forget myself m~m
distant lands! Forgive me for talking thus-to be quite
plain, as soon as the intricate affairs of this estate are disen-
tangled, and wound up, I design to set out for two or three
years of travel; yet I shall not be able to get off for several
weeks."
Here the conversation ended for the present. Thinking
that for the first few days, at least, Mrs. ~eorgma would need
a female companion, lie got in his chaise, and went over to
Hardbargain for Catherine.
"Kate is not here," said Mrs. Clifton, in answer to his
inquiries-" do you not know that she has been for three
weeks at her brother's cabin, nursing his wife through her
confinement 'P'
Major Clifton threw his hat upon the table, and dropped
himself into a chair, with an air of extreme vexation, say~
ing-
*

,9~


98             THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.

I
{
i

THE OLIItSE OF CLIFTON.

* "It really seems to me that that girl is nurse and ser-
vant-in-general to the neighborhood! Her brother might
easily have found some old wpman to nurse his wife. I won-
der you permit her to be made such a slave of by everybody,
mother."
"It does her no harm, Archer."
"Twelve months since you introduced Catherine into the
best society in Richmond."
"The richest, you mean--not the best, by a great deal."
"And now you suffer her to throw herself into the most
vulgar and common! Dear madam, is this right '?"
"'What God hath cleansed, call not thou common, or
unclean '-yes! it is right! Catherine, a girl of the very hum-
blest birth, with natural talent and acquired accomplishments
that fit her for any circle-should mix with all. And,
Archer, what do you mean by 'vulgar P If ignoble minds,
corrupt hearts, and mean actions constitute vulgarity.-.then
I for one have met more vulgar people in so-called high-life
than ever I saw in 1GW-life !"
"My dear mother, you are a Republican-let us waive
this discussion, for I dislike to differ from you, and tell ~ne
where I shall find Catherine, for she positively must return
with me to White Cliffs, to bear Mrs. Georgia company,
until some other companion can be procured fo~ her."
"Catheifine is at her brother's cabin, as I told you."
"The same cabin he occupied before I left home P'
"Certainly."
Major Clifton entered the gig, and turned the horse's head
towards the dell in which the overseer's cabin stood. When
he drew up4 before the door, Carl came out to welcome him,
and invite him to alight.
"No, thank you, send Catherine hither," he said-
Carl looked very much as though he did not intend to
obey this haughty behest-but Catherine had already heard
the demand, and appeared at the door.
"How-do-you-do, Kate ~ Mrs. Georgia Clifton is at my
house, and I wish you to return with me to attend upon her.
Come, get your bonnet, at once, Catherine, for lam rather
hurried."
"We cannot spare Catherine, sir," said Carl, in a tone of
displeasure.
"I did not address myself to you, my good fellow," said
Major Clifton, looking over his head, and through the door

4

I                                                                                                                                                                                   4

of the cabin, watching Catherine, as she tied on her
bonnet.
When Rate came out, he handed her into the gig, and
nodding carelessly to the flushed, indignant Carl, drove off.
When they had driven a little way-
"Catherine," he said, "is that man your full brother ~"
"Yes, sir."
"The same father and mother 'P'
"Yes, sir."
"Humph! You are not at all alike in feature. Are you
very much attached to this brother, Catherine P'
"Yes, sir."
"Humph." He did not speak again until they had
reached White Cliffs, when he handed her out, and said-.-..
"Catherine, Mrs. Georgia is greatly fatigued; I wish you to
attend to her comforts, this evening-do you bear V'
"Yes, sir," replied Kate.
The next day Mrs. Clifton, of Hardbargain, came over to
call on Georgia. And afterwards, at the earnest solicitation
of her son, she paid them a visit of a week. Major Clifton
busied himself with the settlement of the estate. Although
the great debts of the late iflr. Clifton could not be recovered
of him, he determined to pay them all. A great many of
them he discharged at once, by cash; and in payment of
others, he gave notes, bearing interest. The calling in of these
numerous debts, and the arrangement of the terms of pay-
ment, and other matters, occupied him nearly two months,
so that it was the last of autumn before he was ready to set
out on his journey.
He had taken leave of his mother the evening previous to
the day upon which he was to leave home. The next morn-
ing, in parting from Mrs. Georgia and Catherine, he took
leave of the lady, in a tender and respectful manner, raising
her hand to his lips-but he drew Kate to his bosom, and
pushing back the rippling waves of chestnut hair, that con-
cealed or shaded two-thirds of her massive forehead, he said,
gravely and sweetly-
"What are you going to do with all this brain while I am
gone, Kate ~ How much longer will it lie fallow ~ Well!
Never mind !" He kissed her freely and fondly as a near
relative might, and bowing once more to Mrs. Georgia, has-
tened away. He paused upon the threshold of the door,
however, seemed to hesitate, then-suddenly came back, seized

)

I

98


I

the hand of Kate, and drew her out upon the porch. "Can
therine," he said, "do 'you remember a promise you made me
once-not to marry without my consent ?"
"Yes, sir, I remember it."
"I hold you to that promise, Kate. I must speak plainly
to you at the risk or the certainty of wounding your feelings;
yours is a singular position, Catherine-a girl of humble
birth, quite penniless, yet with education and accomplish~
ments that fit her to grace a higher circle, It is not likely,
Catherine, that any gentleman in this part of the country
will ever become a suitor for your hand, and no one who is
not a gentleman should be permitted to do so !-Therefore,
Catherine, I wish you to promise me not to listen to any pre-
posals without my~consent."
"I promised you long ago, sir. I will keep that promise
until you release me from it!'?
"That is a good girl! Now, then, once more good-bye,"
and again he folded her to his bosom, and then, indeed, he
was gone.
Catherine turned with the intention of seeking her own
room, but was instantly confronted by Mrs. Georgia Clifton,
who stood before her with pallid cheek, set teeth, and gleam-
ing eyes. She caught the wrist of the girl, and keeping a
strong, vice-like grasp upon it, dragged her almost with vio-
lence into the parlor before the window, and casting herself
into a chair, pulled Catherine up before her, and fixed those
wild, dilated, star-like eyes upon her ~hce. It fell blushing
under the gaze.
"You love that wan," she said, drawing her breath hardly,
like one iu a passing pain.
The blush deepened upon Catherine's cheek, but she did
not reply in words.
"Speak! Answer me! You love that man ?" she re-
peated, clutching the wrist of the girl so tightly as to cause
her to wince.
"Madam, I am grateful to Major Clifton-he is my bene-
factor-he cares for me, and I am grateful to him."
"lie is an arrogant man-he reminded you, of your low
birth."
"I know he did, madam, and perhaps II ought to have
vindicated our common human future, and told him, as I
tell you now, that there is no such thing in God's universe
as low ,birth, that every child comes into His world with

101

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

equal claim upon His people; perhaps it was my duty to
have told him this, only I am always a coward before Major
Clifton, and never can say the right thing at. the right time
to him, as I can to others."
"You love him! That is the reason And you are a
fool if you do not know it, or a hypocrite if, knowing it, you
deny it. But he despises your love! He said to you, him.
self, that no gentleman would be likely to b~e a suitor for
your hand !"
"I know he did, lady. His care for me makes him say
rough, blunt things sometimes. I can bear them from him."
"You love him! ]I~eny it, if y~u dare! But you are an
idiot! an idiot! if you do not take his hint to conquer that
passion! He said it was not likely that any gentleman
would ever become a suitor for your hand! lie is a gentle-
man-therefore he can never stoop to you! You do not
answer me! Do you,~perchance, deceive yourself with the
idea that he ever will ?"
"Lady-no, I do not deceive myself with the idea that
he will ever 'stoop' to marry me. The woman that Major
Clifton shall marry, if he ever marries, will be quite worthy
of him, and that will preclude the idea of hi~ 'stooping' to
her."
"And that woman will not be you, presumptuous girl!
Do you dare to hope it will ~ Speak! Answer me !"
"Lady !" said Catherine, in a tone of grave and dignified
rebuke, "considering the recent bereavement of Major Clif-
ton, the discussion into which you have drawn me is indeli-~
cate, to use no harsher term !"
"'Recent!' It is of five months' standing! You evade
my question! You evade all my questions! I asked you
if you loved him! Answer me
"Lady! long ago my heart became too unruly for my own
management, and I gave rt,.with all its desires and affections,
to God. I love nothing out of Him !"
"And do you expect Archer Clifton will ever marry you ~
Answer that ~"
"Madam, I expect nothing.~~
"Do you ~iope it, then ~"
"Lady, I hope nothing9"
"You prevaricate, girl! Do you tbislt it then !"
"Madam, I only wish that God may appoint all times,
seasons and events in my life-making me humble, generous

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

100

9k' V


[I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

and grateful in prosperity, if it comes; and strong, cou-
rageous and patient in adversity, if, as is most likely, that
comes !"
"Iluniph-would it make you happy to be the wife of
Archer Clifton ~"
"Mrs. Clifton, you have no right to ask inc that ques-
tion!"
"Yet I do ask you, and I insist upon a reply !"
"And I decline giving it."
"I am answered! You love Archer Clifton! You feed
your heart upon the secret hope of one day being his wife!
And now listen to me, girl !" she exclaimed, every vestige
of prudence and selfrestraint swept away by her rising pas-
Sion, "' I, too, day and night, feed my soul upon one des-
perate hope-....that I live forwould die for, or go to perdition
for! I, too, love Clifton. I loved hipi the first hour I ever
saw him. I have loved him ever since, only more madly for
every obstacle, danger, duty that stood between, dividing us!
I have schemed, dared, sinned for him! Twice he has been
snatched from me by fate, twice restored to my hopes! Oh!
I know my own strong will had much to do with that restora-
tion! He is given to my hopes again! Think you, now,
that you can win him from me ~ .N'o, idiot! If there be
any power in my own soul, on earth, in Heaven, or fri hell to
help me, I will find it 'out, and enlist it to give me this one
desire of my heart, this man's love! Since first I ever be-
held his face, I have dreamed, hoped, toiled, lived for nothing
else! I have suffered for him! Oh! angels and devils! how I
have suffei9ed for him! In the days when he came wooing
Carolyn, wooing her bt~fore the face of me, boun~l with indisso..
luble chains !-me, loving him as she had no power or 'con-
ception of loving anything! Many times I was almost mad with
despair !-.--knowing, too, if he would only love me I should be
nearly mad with joy!. I have sacrificed great prospects for
him. Yes! little as you think me capable of it! This sum-
mer I might have made a splendid alliance in Richmond~.....a
traveling nobleman.......an English nobleman, girl! a baron with
an annual rental of thirty thousand pounds ste1~iing-.....with
seats in the three kingdoms, and a palace in Portman Square.
I rejected him, when I knew that Clifton was free! In the
faint hope of winning Clifton, I w6uld not bind myself. All
that I have over done of good or of evil has had him for its
end and object! I was thc~ belle, queen, idol of 1~ichinond!

103

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

If I schemed and toiled for a position, and gloried in my
success, it was that he might hear of it, and his pride might
be enlisted for me,! You saw me one winter at the governor's
reception! You saw how I was worshiped there! But he
was prcsent-and free, and I did not care what the thou-
sands thought of me, I only cared what that unit might
think !" Her voice sank into tenderness, and she paused,
and dropped her brow into both open hands. But soon rais-
ing her head again, she said, "Look at me well'! Ay,
look!' What sort of a rival do you take me to be ~ If you
cannot guess, I will tell you! I am not superstitiou~ or
scrupulous, as you are! I am one, who, fey my soul's great
passion, will do, or dare, or suffer anything! I ask no leave
of earth or Heaven for what I do! I do what I will, or can.
and take the consequences; earth or Heaven can but punish,
and I can risk or bear it !-for there is no pain or loss in the
universe that I weigh with the loss of my love! And not
for the fear of eternal perdition-not for the hope of ever-
lasting salvation, will I forego the joy of my mortal love!
Now, hear me, girl !" She rose upon her feet, bending over
Catherine, with her hand clutched upon the maiden's shoul-
der with a vice-like grip, and, gazing into her eyes with con-
tracted; gleaming pupils, she said,-while her voice dropped
into the low, deep, stern tone of intense and concentrated
passion, in which every word, syllable, letter was articulated
with a distinct, metallic ring :-" Now, hear me! If you
dare to come between me and my love-by the living Lord
that sent my burning soul upon this dull earth, and who can
hurl it hence to a burning perdition-I will find a way to
kill you! IDe you hear me ~"
Catherine grew pale beneath the tiger eye and clutch of
the fearful woman, but she answered-
"Madam, I have heard you utter wild and wicked words.,
I will endeavor to forget them."
"IRemember them! You are warned !"
And releasing her hold, 'the dark lady passed from the
room.
Catherine remained sitting where she had left her, appalled
by the exhibition of demoniac passion she' had witnessed,
One pain and one fear possessed her above all others-deep
regret that this most wicked woman had evidently already
attained such an ascendancy ovsr the mind of Clifton, and
dread le;~t, in despite of all the sin, she would gain her ob-

0

102


104           THE CURSE 40F CLIFTON.
ject-his hand! But Catherine carried all her doubts au4
fears to her Heavenly Father. And soon to her clear, strong
'mind it became evident, that however wicked and unscrtip~i..
ions, potent and dangerous the Circe might be on ordinary
occasions, ~he ~possessed too little self~.government, was undei~
the influence of too strong and impetuous passions, to suc~
ceed in maintaining any long course of duplicity, such 'as
would be necessary to the accomplishment of her purpose.
And Kate became calm. She wished to leave the house.
She could ill boar to live under the same roof with this wo
man, and meet her at least three times a day, at meals, if no
4                oftener.  But she had promised Major Clifton to remain with~
Mrs. Georgia until she should have other company, and ~she~
j                must keep her promise. It was, besides, doubly sacred, be~
4 ing made to him, and the pain it brought her was endurat~
7                -borne for him.
Mrs. Georgia sought the garden, tha open air, anywhere
where she could breathe freely. When the storm ~in h&amp;
bosom had subsided, and reason was again in the ascendant,:
'~          she could have torn her hair and beat her breast, yea, and
rent liar garments with excess of chagrin, to think that she
had so betrayed herself to Catherine. She did not 'fully he-
lieve that Catherine would repeat this scene where it could
injure her, or anywhere, in fact.' Still, she thought it safer
to guard against such a contingency, and while 8he herself
s4ill possessed the unshaken confidence and respect of Major
Clifton, to inipu~n the conduct and character of Catherine,
and thus forestall and invalidate any testimony she might
hereafter g{ive. She felt that she must proceed very eau~
tiously.. A plan of correspondence had been' arranged with
Major Clifton, previous to his departure She soon began to
receive long letters from him, filled with interesting descrip-
tions of the countries through which he passed, the people
whom he met, and philosophical comments upon both. ~ And
to these she replied in other letters, full of appreciation, ad-
iniration, gratitude, and breathing, besides, the highest, pu-
rest, most disinterested sentiments and opinions upon all the
subjects of' their correspondence. Into these letters, she
gradually introduced the name of Catherin~-carelessly, at
first, as if she 'thought little about her, one way or the other,
~-as thus: "Catherine is with me still-she desires to be
remembered ;" then, in a second letter, ~by a slight' line of
praise, as though the girl was rather winning upon her, as-
I


TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.         105

"Catherine i~ well. By the way, wh~t a remarkably clever
girl she is ;" then, in another, with warmer panegyric, as
though sl~e really very much improved upon longer acquaint-.
ance, thus: "How, can I ev9r~ thank you sufficiently for
placing Catherine with me ?" Next came high encomiunis upon
Catherine's '~a~ents, iii this wise: "Catherine has left mc,
and is with yonr mother, as no doubt the latter has written
you. Apropos! What a~mind that girl has ~ Did you ever
v observe ?" And then, in' a subsectuent epistle; came an ex-
pression of wonder at the "di~lomatie" character of Kate's
intellect, and an opinion that the writer really believed&amp;er
thrown away in private life. An~l next, a cooler mention of
IL'
the maiden, with the hint of~ a fear that she was gaining the
mastery over 1~frs. Clifton's strong mind. Finally, after
some months, she Wrote thus, as if speaking frankly from a
senee of duty, and at the cost of great pain: "I fear that I
have been gieatly deceived in my estimate of Catherine's
good principles, flow shall I introduce ~what I am about to
say to you? But you had best come home: and see for your-
self. For I know that your mother' is in the power of as
dangerous an int~i~uant~ as I :ever"heard of; and mind-she
will influence 'Mrs. Clifton t6 disinherit her own song and be-
queath her the farm at Hardbaa'gain. That Maria Teresa'
brow of hors 'meant something; after all. But, ~o~i do not
know with What pain I write this, ~Archer! 'II cannot pursue
the subject-bnly regard for you, and fidelity to your" in-
terests, would ha~ve drawn me to it~ disoussi&amp;n. I advise
you to come home and look after your own welfare !"
What influence this had upon Major Clifton, will be seen
in the sequeL
And while Georgia was exercising her power abroad, she
was busy at home also flaying heard or guessed at Colonel
(ionyer's "foolish" attachment to ~Catherine, she wrote and
invited him to make up a party of his own friends, and come
down and spend Christmas w~th'her.' And the gallant offi-
cer, delighted with 'this quintessence ~rnd perfection of confi-
dence and' hospitalit~r-tbis carte blanche to be filled up at
his own pleasure,' v~rote and most gratefully accepted' th~ in-
vitation for himself and "friends."
VOL. II.-9

105


106             TH~E OURS2C OPOLIF~ON.
CJ~[APTER XXVII.
OATUERIN~.
Now has descended ~a serene hOUr.-~K~ATS.
CoLoN~L'Co~"y~i~exereised tad and discretion in avail-
ing 'liinisef of the privi1~ge panted him' by Georgia. In
consideration of ~the recent affliction of the family, he wade
up avel!y 'quiet~and a~p1~opriate party-narnely% the lady's
father, ih~ artist, a pale ~youpg clergyman who was suffering
fo~ &amp;~u br3f~airandthe Wife and sister of the' latter.
After his arrival ~t Whit&amp; Cliffs, Mrs. Georgia gave him
evy~bpportunity of renewing' 'his acquaintance with Oath-
~ to~persi~t in his suit. Girls,
she said, were often Whimsical, 'and 'Catherine was especially
sh~b~itdieposed to think~ highly of her suitor~ and well
w~rtlVth~ trouble 6f~ perseverance. Colonel Conyers ihere..
up~rewi~np6rt~mate, and Catherine 'became distressed at
his reistajice, axkd ann6uneed her intention of returning' to
IIardk~ar~ain. When her lover' heard 'this, his grief s~emed~
nuboun~ded-.-be hadIso~ long counted on's~icoess, so long been
deceived by Mrs. Goorgia~s assurances, and by Oatherine's~
~eutleness" of denial, that~ now wheb his hopes were quite
overthrown, he became passionate and ~vehem~nt in his de..
nionstrations of sorrow. His trouble affected Catherine very
deeply. She wenl apd s~t~ down by bini, and~ laid her hand
upon his shoulderr, and said, in her "gentle'. sympathetic
'or ~ grieve so; indeed! am not worth so much love,
regret4 indeed 1' ate' not-! '~n a poor girl, very
ignorant of society, 'very fell 'of' weakness 'and error."
"Oh, C&amp;therine'! Catherine! that is nothing to 'the pur-
pose!' You are what you are, and I adore you! Do not
make n~e"wretched !"-
'"Hea~eu knows I do not wish to! I am your friend-.

TUE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          107

indeed I am. I would do anything in the world to give you
peace, indeed I would-except--"
"Except love me, proud girl !"
"'Proud ~' No, I am not proud. *Why should I be ~
Do not mock me! Indeed I feel that. von have conferred
the greatest honor upon me in your preference. An offer of
his hand is the highest mark of respect and confidence a man
can give a woman; the world would think it higher still,
coming from one of your rank to one of mine. I myself
should in any case be proud of your regard, only-."
"Only I feel so grieved to see you look so sorrowfully;
but--"
"'Well, my dear' girl, well! but what V'
She paused, a slight blush suffused her cheek-she ga-
thered courage and went on to say-
"I do not know why I should not speak anything that
may be upon my heart, at whatever cost t~ my natural feel-
ings, if the hearing of it will do good to any hunian being.
Yes! I will speak, for your sake. I do not fear to speak, for
I have perfect confidence in' you. Listen then, Colonel
Conyers, dear friend. You are not the only one who has
missed earthly happiness. I think it must be written in the
book of fate, that we may not have those whom we love too
deeply-in other words, that we may not have idols. It seems
to me, that notwithstanding all other troubles, it would make
us too happy, in an existence designed chiefly for trial and
probation.''
"That is a sad, strange, despairing sentiment, for one so
young!"
"No, not despairing-for if we may not have joy, there
remain the peaoe..and cheerfulness found in duty. And if
we may not have th~ love of the heart's idol, there remain
the affection of relatives, 'the esteem of friends, the love of
God, and the hope of Heaven."
"Catherine, you have loved. Tell me about it~ my
child."
"I intended 'to tell you about it. It is the best proof of
entire confidence and esteem that I can give you. It will
show you how highly value you, and it will assure you also,
of the utter impossibility of getting a heart that is not mine
to give-if it were worth giving."
She paused in great embarrassment, her cheeks were suf-


108

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

fused with blushes, yet she seemed resolved to proceel. As
if to assist her, he said-
"This being whom you deify with your love, my child!
what a splendid, what a magnificent nature he must have'
what transcendent personal attractions! what an intellect!
what a heart! Is it not so? tell me
"Ah! no; you are mistaken; these things excite admira-
tion and wonder, they do not of tlieniselves win affection.
Oh, no! he of whom you speak, is not so handsome as you
are; he has no more mind than you have, and not so much
heart-even I admit that."
"And yet you love him, and can love him."
"Even so-do you wonder at it? Have not you passed
by women-handsome, graceful, accomplished-to fix upon
a plain country girl like me
"Oh, but not women with your candor, purity and strength
of mind. Oh, Kate! what depths of truth and innocence
you have revealed in the very confession you have made me!
Who else but yourself dared make such a revelation ?"
Catherine looked up at the speaker in doubt.
"Go on, dear girl. Tell me that this man adores you,
and I will never, while I live, trouble you with myself
againn"
"Ah, no! it wa~ nothing like that which I set out to tell
you. Ah, no! I only wished to let you know-that your
case of disappointed affection is not solitary-that I too have
missed life's crowning joy-the love of one I love. He does
not even notice me now. I never permit myself to dream
that he will ever love me. Yet I would like to live with him,
to serve him-myself unknown, unnoticed, if I might only
be near him. II envy the waiting-maids and men, and even
the dogs, who are full-feasted every day, with the presence
for which niy heart starves. I would like to give my life to
his service, but I am unnecessary to his smallest need. Well1
I cannot do him any good; but I serve one who is dear to
him, and so I stay the hunger of my heart. Please do not
think ill of me for telling you all this. It would grieve me
to have you think any evil of me. I esteem you, and want
your esteem. I have done some violence to my instincts in
telling you this. Do not think ill of me for doing sod I
only do it that you may know you are not the only one in
this world who is--not happy."
"Think ill of you, Catherine! Do anything but adore

109

THE CUUSE 011' CiLIFTON.

you-and mourn your loss forever-if lose you I must-oh,
ijeaven !"
"This life is a tragedy-for always that which is dearest,
is lost in it, and it ends in death. The closing scene is the
corpse, the shroud, the coffin-and the curtain drops upon
the grave-all beyond is hidden~eXcePt to the eye of faith.
INly experience of life has been all darkness, clouds and storm
-and the transient gleams of gladness or of hope have been
-not like the sunshine, but like the lightning. Yet through
all the grief, and gloom, and the tempting doubt, the 'still,
small voice' of God's spirit has spoken to my soul, and com-
forted rue."
"Oh, Catherine, my child! that I could make your life all
sunshine~~that you would let me try-I do believe I could
make you ~appy.~~
Catherine shook her head, slowly, with a sad smile, say-
ing-
"We all believe that! We all think that in us only is vested
the power of making those we love happy. It is because we
know that we are willing, anxiouS to do more for them than
any other person would! It is a fond error. Our efforts-
our greatest sacrifices are often needless, as we ourselves are
nothing to our gods of flesh."
"Am Ii )~othing~nOthing to you, then?"
"You are my dear and honored friend."
"Oh, Catherine, I could make your life happy! Nay,
but do not look incredulous-I know I c6'uld. My love is
not selfish, like that of most other men. It i~ perfectly dis-
interested. It only asks to serve you. It only desires to see
you at ease. Dear Kate, youhave told me all on your heart
-you might lay that~heart, with all its burden of unrequited
affection, upon my bosom, and I would comfort, and cherish,
and sustain it, until I should win its love all to myself."
Again, and more mournfully, the girl shook her head-
"Do not pursue this subject, Colonel Conyers. Dear
friend, by dwelling upon our wild wishes, they grow to seem
hopes, and probabilitie5~ and certainties. In my youth-"
"In 'your youth!' How many years ago was that, Cathe-
rine ?"
"Strange !-but at eighteen, I really feel no longer
yo~flg.~~
"Yet it is not wiutel, but a wintry spring, thai~ chills
your young life. That is not uncommon. spring-the spring


THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

of hope, the spring of joy, the spring of life will open indeed,
by-and-by, and be all the warmer and brighter for its late-
ness-and my Catherine shall feel younger-but for increased
wisdom-at twenty-five, then she does now at eighteen-that
lot is for her-whosesoever treasure she may be. But what
was she going to say happened in her long passed youth ?"
Cath~rine smiled, and said-
"Well, then-when life was newer and fresher, believing
~-as I do now-all the promises of the Bible-and saying--
as I do now-that the days of miracles are not passed, and
never will be so, until the days of God's omnipotence and
man's faith is passed, I used to say that I would pray for
what I wanted, though the granting of my prayer should
seem to involve an impossibility. But noyv, later in life, I
have learned a better lesson still, from the example of my
Master. IJe might have saved Himself by a miracle, but He
chose rather to endure the cross and the shame, for the work-
ing out of His Father's will and purpose. God has a pur-
pose and a will in every-the humblest life. And now, for
all other vain and childish petitions, I substitute the words
of the Saviour-' Not My will-but Thine, be done."'
"Catherine, you must be happy, even in this world. You
are so good. You must be made happy in the end."
"Ah, I should be sorry to set up the plea of goodness.-.-.
when I see so many people so much better than I am, suffer
so deeply. It is too often represented that goodness is re-i
warded in this world-but, oh! how can any one remember
the life and death of a thousand martyrs, and the crucifixion
of the Saviour, and not feel that it is not so-and not feel
that the reverse is often so
"Oh, Catherine, that is a very gloomy doctrine, and I will
not believe it! There is a hopeful text of Scripture that
comes into my mind-' Godliness is profitable in all things,
having the promise of the life that now is, and that which is
to come.', It is the clouds of your wintry spring that make
everything look so gloomy to you !"
"It is not ~ gloomy doctrine! Oh, no! npt gloomy, by
all the hope and, illumining of the glorious Resurrection and
Ascension."

CHAPTER XXVIII.
WINTER EVENINGS AT THE FARM.
Oh, Winter, ruler of the inverted year,
I love thee, all unlovely as thou seemest,
And dreaded as thou art.
I crown thee king of intimate delights,
Fire-side enjoyments, homestead happiness,
And all the cornfi)rts that the lowly roof
Of undisturbed retirement, and the hours
Of long, uninterrupted evening, kaow.-COwPER.
CATHERINE returned to Uardbargain on Christmas Eve.
It was a clear, cold, crisp afternoon, and the level sun threw
a glistening, yellow lustre, like powdered gold dust, over the
crusted surface of the snow-clad earth And as Kate's little,
rough-coated pony stepped freely out over the ground, life
and hope and joy tided back to her heart, giving bloom to
her cheeks, light to her eyes,, and elasticity to all her mo-
tions. She was very glad indeed to find herself on her way
to the farm, and about to exchange Athe feverish, exciting
atmosphere of White Cliffs, and the disturbing proximity of
Georgia, for the long, calm days, and long, calm evenings
with Mrs. Clifton, at the farm-house. She reached her des-
tination at dusk. Mrs. Clifton met the girl with a smile of
pleasure, and welcomed her with a kiss of affection. Then
she conducted her into the parlor, where she made her sit
down by the fire, while she removed her bonnet and shawl.
Next she summoned Ilenny, and gave orders that tea should
be served immediately, and a fire kindled in' Miss Catherine's
room, as the young lady was fatigued, and would wish to
rotirO early. There was in the manner of the lady upon
this evening, and from this evening, a maternal tenderness
and solicitude, very soothii~g and delightful to Catherine.
This was so apparent to th~e domestics, that they began to
deport themselves towards the maiden with the, deference
due to the daughter of the house.
And how calmly and cheerfully the winter days passed.

110

p

111

II
A


112            THE CURSE OF 0L~ON~                                        THE CURSE OF CLIFTOD~.           113

There was the early rising, and the early breakfast, in the
warm, bright, back parlor, where the morning sun shone in.
There was the leisurely talk over the meal, about the occu~
nations, which were also the amusements of the day. Afte1'
breakfast, came the ride around the farm, in the course of
which every field and barn and granary was inspected, and
every negro quarter visited. And during these rides, Mrs.
Clifton gave (Ik~therine much information relating to agricul-
tural matters.
"For, my dear," she said, "some day you may be a
planter's wife, and have all these things to look after, while
your husband is in the public service, absent with his regi-
ment, or at the legislature." To Which Catherine ventured
no reply. And then came dinner, and the short afternoon
nap, and tea, and the long, serene evening, by the fireside,
employed in needle-work, enhivei~cd by rational, cheerful
conversation, and occasionally varied by music or reading,
and finally ended by family prayer and bed.
Mrs. Clifton and Catherine never, never wearied of
each other. They had many occupations for hands and
heads-they Were both strong, original thinkers, and above
all, were both deeply interested in the same being-the
absentee.
And now Catherine enjoyed a very dear, but dangerous
delight, in the perusal of Major Clifton's letters of travel.
These letters arrived about two in a month. And, ah! the
evenings, when'they came, were festivals indeed to the re-
cluse~lady and the maiden. Often when one was brought in,
Mrs. Clifton reclining, through weakness, upon .the sofa,
shading her eyes with her hand, would say, "Break the seal
and read it to me, dear Catherine." 'And Kate would do
so-drawing delicious draughts of perilous pleasure from the
poetic and artistic spirit that pervaded every sentiment, nar-
rative and description in the epistle. And on these long,
quiet 'winter evenings, very often the conversation turned
upon the absent son-the dear topic always introduced by
his mother. It seemed as if Mrs. Clifton ~wished to make
Catherine thoroughly acquainted with 'his character and dis-
position-with his faults and w~knesses, as well as with his
virtues and powers.
"My son has his serious imperfections, like other men, of
course-though your eyes contradict me, Catherine; if I,
his partial mother, see them, they exist, you may depend.

Archer is no demigod, my dear, in the estimation of any
one, but-well, no matter-don't blush so-I am his mother,
and I love him, too, and think highly of him, of course, but
I acknowledge he is no angel, Kate, and I should be sorry
you, should take him for one-disapp~Antment would come
of it, my dear. He is proud, jealous, and suspicious as a
Spaniard, and while under the influence of these feelings, he
is reserved and sullen as an Indian-yet these faults of cha-
racter have been so transfigured in my dear Kate's affection,
that they have actually seemed virtues-the pride, jealousy
and suspicion have seemed high sense of honor and intellectual
acumen-and the reserve and sullenness-dignity! Is it not
so, my dear ~"
Kate's eyes lighted, and her cheeks flushed highly, but
not with bashfulness-with an emotion that was swelling at
her heart-and carried away from ~elf.consciousness by *en-
thusiasm, she~answered-
"Oh, madam! I know what I would say to you, if I only
knew how to say it. Heaven sends divine thoughts and
feelings into my heart and brain~'sometimes, but they cannot
pass thence into words-a-they are choked up perhaps by sin
or imperfection. Such a feeling I have now-heavenly light,
if I could only refract it-" She paused an i~istant, uncon~
scious that the lady was looking intently upon her. Then
she spoke again, slowly, in a kind of calm fervor-" Real
affection-I do not mean passion or imagination-but real
love does never invest its object with unreal virtues
never !-all faults are the excess or the deficiency of some
virtue-well, real love sees its object not perhaps as he is at
his worst-not even perhaps so evil as he is even at his best,
but as he may become !-as he surely will become, if that
real affection continues faithful to its trust. Ah! how
strong that conviction is in my heart-how weak upon my
lips !"
"I understand you, Catherine, and may your true affection
be the divine alchemy that shall transmute all Archer Clif-
ton's faults into virtues." At this personal reply, Catherine~s.
eyes fell and her oh~eks burned with sudden.self-recollection,
and for weeks after this she~~jpuld not recall the conversation
without deep blushes.
More and more freely as the weeks passed by did Mrs.
Clifton talk to Kate of her son and his peculiarities, and the
best way to meet them.

I

#~
I

113


THE CUUSE OF CLIFTON.

THE OURSE OF CLIFTON.

"You know, my dear Catherine, the apostle, in 'order to
win 'proselytes, made himself all things to all men. Archer
is proud, .and my dear girl must raise herself a little out of
that hinnility of manner which is very distasteful to the
haughty, except when exhibited towards themselves, when
it naturally becomes very acceptable." This ~tyle of con~
versation, addressed to her for weeks and months, was at
once ~rery pleasing and very painful to Kate. It was sweet,
it was dear beyond measure, to* be considered in this near
relation to her beloved, to be addressed! daily and hourly as
if she possessed the power of rendering his future life better
and happier, and so addressed by his own mother, too, but it
was also humiliating to be supposed to presume on the future
esteem and affection of one who had never addressed the lan..
guage of. love to her. Often she thought of begging Mrs.
Clifton to desist from this style of conversation; but a cer-
tain bashfulness, a deep respect for the lady, a distrust of
herself and of her own experience, and the childish thought
that Major Clifton might have entrusted to his mother an in-
tention that he never confided to herself its object, and the
delight of living in this blessed illusion,' and the fear of
breaking the charm, kept her silent for a long time, during
which Mrs. Clifton gradually fell into the manner of con-
&amp;dering her and speaking to her as her son's future wife~
All at once one day it suddenly struck Kate that Mrs. Clif..
ton might be the victim of a mistake, and under the impres-
sion that some understanding or engagement existed between
herself and Major Clifton, and that her own silence and
seeming acquiescence had served to confirm this error. And
this very natural and rational thought fell upon the girl like
a thunderbolt, utterly blasting and destroying all her beau-
tiful hopes, and covering her face with the blushes of deep
humiliation. She felt that she must undeceive Mrs. Clifton
immediately. So when they sat together at the work-table,
before the eVexiing fire, and the lady spoke of her son, say-
ing, among other things-
"The most, unhappy trait in his characters his tendency
to suspicion, my loves Be straightforward with him, Cathe-
rine, never have a secret from ~m, not even one touching a
little pleasant surprise, be perfectLy frank and open-hearted
with him, and, alas ! even that course may not always save,
you from, suffering by his besetting sin, and when it does not,
Catherine, there is nothing left for you but patience and

trust. You see, on Archer's behalf, I expect a great deal
of you, my love, like all mothers-in-law, I suppose."
Catherine's face was bent over her work; ashamed of her
supposed mistake, ashamed of the weakness that now choked
her voice, she remained silent for some time. At length,
gathering a false impression from her long continued silence,
Mrs. Clifton said~-
"Do I hope too much from you, Kate, my love P'
With an effort, Catherine controlled her emotion, looked
up and replied, steadily-
"No, no, dear Mrs. Clifton, you do not demand too much
of me. As far as my will and my power, as far as the grace
of God aids me, I will serve Major Clifton with the affection
~nd fidelity of a sister and a servant, but I have not the
smallest reason to suppose that he will ever admit me to a
friendship sufficiently intimate to make it possible for mc to
affect his character and conduct in any way, even if I should
presume to wish it."
"My dear Kate, Archer's wife will be his friend, com-
panion and counsellor-he never would be happy with a mere
housekeeper or parlor ornament, however beautifully accom-
plished and amiable-it is therefore he will prize my dear
Catherine's clear, strong mind and proud heart-she will be
admitted to his closest thoughts and his noblest counsels, do
not doubt it."
"Oh, madam, you do not comprehend'me yet, I see. How
deeply rooted your mistake Anust be, dear lady! Oh, how
shall I tell you ~ Indeed you are in error if you suppose--
if you suppose that-"~ Kate stopped short and burst into
tears.
Mrs. ~lifton encircled her waist with her arm, and
"Come, Rate, stop all this blushing and weeping. Let
us be confidential, you and I, as mother and daughter should
be, for 'you are as my own daughter, Kate, and am I not ~
mother. to you P'
"Oh, yes! yes! dear lady !" said Catherine, taking her
hand, and pressing it to her bosom, and covering it with
kisses. "Oh, yes, you are indeed like a mother to me, if I
were only worthy to be your daughter! and I love and honor
you more than ever a mother was loved and honored in this
world before, I do believe !"
"Then let there be no reserve between us, dear Kate.

114

9

115

q


THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

Let us be open with each other, as parent and child, whose
loves, and hopes, and wishes are the same. I have been
plain with you all along, only, gradually unfolding your
future, not to alarm your shyness-and to win your confi-
dence. I have longed for this confidence-this perfect open..
ness between us-that we might talk with more intelligence,
and with more comfort-and I have courted it -by my own
frankness; but in return for all my candor, Catherine has
shown me only reserve and blushes. Will she be more con-
fiding now V'
"Alas, dearest lady, what can I say to you, but that ~you
are greatly mistaken-sadly mistaken-oh, yes, indeed, sadly
replied Kate, almost
mistaken,"                  weeping again.
"I am not mistaken in- supposing that Catherine loves my
son. I am not mistaken in knowing that the fact gives me
more happiness than anything else in the world. Yet Iwould
like to hear Kate admit it."
"Well, dearest lady-yes !-down, pride !-if it will give
you any pleasure to 'hear it, I must not withhold the confes-
sion-yes, I dc~ love your son-so much-so much-that it
will make me an old maid !"
Mrs. Clifton laughed, a little, low, jolly laugh. (The lady
very seldom laughed, and when she did, it had a strange, ex-
ceedingly pleasant effect upon the hearer-it was a very
agreeable surprise, revealing, as it were under that grave,
stern surface, traces of a mine of wit, humor, fun and mis-
chief, that must have existed, and frequently sparkled forth,
ere the sorrow and the seriousness of life smothered and ex-
tinguished it.) She laughed her little, low, jolly laugh, and
replied-
"That were a strange effect of love, Catherine; but trust
me, it will not be so with Archer's consent."
"Dear Mrs. Clifton, forgive me for saying again, that y'u
are very much mistaken-never, never in his life, has Major
Clifton bestowed upon me one word, or look, that might be
misconstrued by the vainest woman into a preference !"
"Well, Kate! I know that! I know that he has never
addressed you on the subject. But 1 know that he will do
so. For he loves you, Catherine, and has loved you from the
first hour he ever saw you-even from the-the night he sat
and studied you in your brother's cabin. And it is just as
certain that you will be his wife, as that you both will live to
marry. So, dearest, let there be no more reserve between

us-consider this marriage sure, as it really is-.(sO far as any
future event is sure)-and let me talk freely, for my time and
opportunity is short."
Catherine raised her eyes to the sallow-almost cadaverous
face of the lady, and a conviction of the truth and reality
of what she predicted, forced itself upon her, with a sharp
pang.
"Now, dear Catherine, I did not ask you for that troubled
look! Will your heart ache because a dry leaf drops. in the
autumn, rather than hangs shivering on the tree through half
the winter ~ But, dear child, I allude to this coming event,
not to cast its  shadow' over you, but to explain why I wish
now to use these days in making you as conversant with the
idiosyncrasies of your future companion, a~ enly years of
married life could do, and to prevent years, perhaps, of mis-
understanding and sorrow. There is something dreadful in
the discovery of unsuspected faults, after marriage-and
something very, very mournful in the disappointment of the
trusting affection, and in the saddened efforts of the heart
to adjust itself to 'the circumstances-efforts that in one case
out of ten, perhaps, succeed. But if the worst is known be-
fore marriage, the man or the woman may consider well
whether they have the strength of heart to conquer their own
faults, and bear with those of their companion. That you
would do all this for your husband, Kate, I am convinced.
I only talk now to smooth your path of duty." The lady
here released Catherine from the embrace in which she had
held her through this conversation, and desired her to ring
for the servants to come in to prayers.
Catherine, as had been her custom for several weeks past-
upon account of Mrs. Clifton's weakness-conducted the
evening devotions.
When prayers were over, and the servants dismissed,
Catherine attended Mrs. Clifton to her chamber, and assisted
her with affectionate care until sh~ had retired. to bed. Then,
after receiving the lady's parting kiss, she hastened into her
own chamber, threw herself upon the bed, and gave way to
a long-pent burst of sorrow. Within the last three years
Catherine had seen much sickness, death, and bereavement
~one after another of her associates or relations had faded
and fallen, and she had mourned their loss; and her life had
taken a sombre hue, and sunken into a depressed tone. But
that this beloved friend, this kind benefactress, this dear,
XTOL. 11.-lO

116

At

117

\ ~.
F


118            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                                      119
TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

dear companion-this more than mother, sister, all to her
heart-should pass away from the eaxth and be seen no more!
Oh! it brought a sense of desolation that threw a shadow and
a chill over all ~t1ie future-over even the bright hopes shining
in the distance. And then the identity of the love she bore
mother and son together forced itself upon her heart. And
she felt that a union with the son could not give her perfect
content, unless the mother were there to share her love and
service, and to participate in their happiness. Without that
mother's presence, their plan.of life would be unfinished.
their circle of love incomplete. And oh! came the sharp,
agonizing question, how could she ever bear to lose the light,
and warmth, and strength, imparted daily, hourly, from that
dear face-that face which had never looked on her but in
affection-that face, the very image of Clifton's own, except
that it was sweeter, holier, and never, never harsh-how
could she ever bear to lose her sweet resting place on that
more than maternal bosom-that bosom on which she could
ever lay her aching head, or aching heart, in perfect peace
and confidence, sure of being understood, sure of being sym~
pathized with ~ Oh! life Would be darkened indeed when
she should pass away. The sense of sorrow was so sharp, so
agonizing, that the girl could have thrown herself upon the
floor-could have wrestled with Heaven, in wild prayer, that
this life might be saved, and this sharp anguish spared her.
B~~t Catherine was habitually self-restrained, and she bore
this mental anguish as she would have endured severe physi..
cal pain-in silence, in patience, until her soul was subdued
to the meekness of resignation. And then prayer brought
comfort.
And she met the lady in the morning with a cheei~ful coun-
tenance. And they spent the day as usual.
So passed the winter and the spring. Though Mrs. Clif-
ton failed visibly from day to day, she still continued her
-rides around the farm, and her general supervision of the
household and of agricultural' affairs, and her instructions to
Catherine. Her people, who well knew the nearly hopeless
state of her health, foretold that their mistress would keep
up and out to the very last-and finally die in her chair.
Indeed, while flesh and blood wasted away, her nervous en-
ergy seemed unimpaired, and her cheerfulness was undimin-
ished. She taked of hpr approaching departure as* calmly
and pleasantly as she would have talked of going to Rioh.
9

mond. Never obtruding the subject, however, unless neces-
sity demanded its introduction.
The serenity and cheerfulness ~f the lady affected C&amp;the-
erine very beneficially-" familiarizing~~ to hey feelings the
future, immortal life. Catherine endeavored to persuade her
to have a physician.
"Why, so I would, Kate, if I had any specific disease; but
when all the frame is wearing out together very slowly and
quietly, why call in a doctor to disturb the harmony of natu-
ral decay, and painfully build up one portion of the sinking
frame at the expense of another ~ ' Why not fade and fall
easily, as all else in benign nature does l"
Catherine next suggested writing for Major Clifton to
hasten home.
"Why, my child ~ Wify, because I am going the common
road, should others be hurried and worried ~ everything in
blessed nature and Divine Revelation teaches us a sweeter
lesson. No~Archer set' out for a twelve months' tour; let
him complete it. He will return this autumn. Quite time
enough, Catherine. I shall live till then, and longer. I can
calculate the progress of my body's failing, and the duration
of my life, with almost' mathematical precision. I shall live
to meet Archer, and to see you married, Catherine-and to
leave you willing to survive me and be happy without me.
And why not, dear ~ for shall I not be happier still '?"
And so, in sweet mutual confidence, in cheerfxil resigna-
tion, and in patient hope, the summer passed, and autumn
arrived in its glory.
V

119

118


120            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                                   121
TUE CURSE O1~' CLIFTON.

CHAPTER XXIX.
THE RETURN.
Come home !-.4here is a sorrowmg breath
In music since ye went,
And fragrant flower scents wander by
With mournful memories blent.
Tbe tones of every household voice
Are grown more sad and deep-
And longing for thee wakes a wish
To turn aside and weep.
Oh, ye beloved! come home !-the hour
Of runny a greeting tone,
The time of hearth-light and of song
Returns and ye are gone!
And darkly, heavily it 1~lls
On the forsaken room,
Burdening the heart widi tenderness
That deepens into gIoom.-.-M~s; IIE1~f4N5.
NOTWITHSTANDING all her habitual calmness and cheerful
patience, Mrs. Clifton began to grow uneasy at her son's pro-
tracted stay. He bad been absent a year and a 'niouth. And
even now, instead of setting out on his return, he~4~ wrote
of comizig home soon, At one time he was at ~ina, at~
another at Berlin, then at the Hague, progression deed,
but very, very slowly towards England and Livcrp from
which port he intended to embark. Every letter tl~at 'came
from him at this period, was opened and read with visible Un-
easiness by his mother. At length the glad tidings came, a
letter from the mid-ocean, brought by a swift sailing packet..~'
boat that had spoken the vessel in which he had embarked
lie was hasteninA home, and might now be expected at an~~
hours The news con~Lained in his letter excited the invalid so
much uponAhe evening of its reception, that she passed a
sleepless night, and rose the next morning weaker than she
had ever been before; so weak, indeed, that she Was obliged,'
in coming down stairs, to lean on the arms of Catherine and
her maid for support. And when she reached the parlor,

she was compelled to recline in an easy-chair, propped up by
pillows, and with her feet supported by a foQt-cushiOfl. But
her cheerfulness was undimjnished. She gave many direc-
tions as to the adjustment and adornment of the room, and
the preparation of certain dainties. Lastly she called Cathe-
rine to her side, and took her hand. Catherine did not ap-
pear to the best advantage, with her plain, dark gingham
dress, and her chestnut hair divided simply abova her fore-
head, rippling in tiny wavelets around her broad temples, and
gathered into a twist behind. This plainness of style did not
become her strongly marked features. And the lady saw it,
for she gazed thoughtfully upon the girl awhile, and then
lifting her hand, disengaged aportiofl of her tresses from the
comb, and let them fall, turning into natural ringlet~ down
her cheeks, saying-
"~There, Catherine, when hair curls naturally and volun-
tarily, it is certain that the face it belongs to requires it so,
and that it should be permitted to follow its nature, for na-
ture does all things well. Why don't you always wear your
hair, so ~ It is so much prettier.~~
"Because, dear lady, I never thought it of any importance
how my hair was fixed, so that it looked neat. But I will
wear it this way, if it pleases you."
"It does. Your face is not a classic one, dear Kate, and
none but a classic face can bear that attic syinplicity of style.
Your countenance is a very noble one, Kate, but its very
nobility is hard and stern, without the softening shadow of
these ringThts nature has bestowed upon ~ Ther&amp; now,
look in ~he mirror, my little Oliver Cromwell, your ~face is
much womanly than before.~~
Oath me found it so. The ~oft, bright, drooping curls
shaded and rounded her large, square forehead into beautiful
proportion' to her other features, and softened the expresSiOn
of the whole. No girl but is pleased to see herself' improved
in beauty,' and it was with a bright blush, half of pleasure,
half of modesty, that the maiden returned to the lady's side.'
"Now, dear Kate, you must leave off that dingy gingham,
and wear white wrappers in the morning. It is early in the
season, and you can wear white a month longer yet, and by
the end of 'that time, I suppose, the world will expect you to
~wear black.' You have no white wrappers thougl~1fly dear V'
"No, madam, I never had one."
"Well, you have two white cambric dress~0, without orna-
1o~

V

19-1

120


122            THE CURSE O~ CLIFT0~.                                                                     123

THE CURSE O~' CLIFTON.

'4

ment, they will do for morning dresses. Do me the kindness
to wear them. Nay, now, Catherine, my dear, no hesitation,
I will bave it so. Go at once and put on one of them."
I(ate complied, and in a short time returned to the parlor
-by this change in the sty~e of her toilet, almost trans~.
figured, yet without the loss of her noble characteristics.
One thought troubled the maiden, the question ~-What
would Clifton think of this?' How would he take it? Would
he suspect that ~lie had dressed for his eyes? If he did his
suspicions would be well-founded. And the consciousness of
this truth, suffused with blushes the cheeks of the ingenuous
girl, and heightened all her beauty.
There was no certainty of Major Clifton's advent that day
-he might come any day, but nevertheless they hoped for
and expected his arrival. By a change in the hours, the
stage now reached L- at noon. And Mrs. Clifton' had
ordered dinner in the full expectation of having her son's
company at that meal. Nor were their hopes destined to
disappointment. A little after one o'clock, the carriage that
had been sent to L to meet the stage, returned and
drove up to the door. And Archer Clifton alighted from it,
and hastened joyfully into the house. Mrs. Clifton arose to
meet him, but, overpowered by agitation and weakness, she
sank l5ack into her seat. Her son was before her in an
instant, and had clasped her in his arms, and pressed her to
his breast, and kissed her fondly many times, and sat her
back in her chair to feast his eyes upon her beloved face and
form, before he noticed how cadaverous, how death-like, she
looked;, ~then a startled expression of surp4se and alarm
sprung into his countenance, and he turned upon. Kate, to
whom he had not yet spoken, a glance of mingled 'inquiry,
anger and reproach.
"You find me in poor health, Archer; but not worse m
son, than what might have been expected." ~ y
"My dearest mother," he began, but his voice choked, and
to conceal the emotion he could not entirely suppress, he
turned to Catherine and gave her a brother's greeting in si-
lence~ hut at the same time darting into her eyes a look of
stern rebuke from his" own, which seemed to say, "You, at
least~ ~hould have written and informed me of this." And
the -susp~aions e~eited by Mrs. Georgia rose darkly in his
mind, but wore repressed again instantly.
"Dearest Archer, I am not usually so ill as I seem to-

day. I have never been confined to my bed, or even my
chair yet. Only to-day and yesterday, the joy of looking for
you has prevented my taking the usual quantity of sleep. I
shall be much better to-morrow. Sit down by me and rest,
and when you are rested, your room is quite ready for you,
if you wish to change your dress before dinner. Catherine,
my love, will you go and direct them to serve dinner ?"
Catherine left the room and gave the necessary commands.
Then she ordered a boy to take Major Clift6n's baggage up
into his chamber, and went up stairs to show h~m where to
put it. 'In the meantime, Major Clifton, in looking upon his
mother's wasted form, had lost all self-command, and saying
hastily that he thought he would 'change his traveling dress
at once, hurried out of the room to give vent to a passionate
sorrow, no longer to be restrained. He ran up stairs, but
paused upon the first landing. Catherine, in leaving his room,
found him leaning upon the balustrades,' with his face buried
in his hands, weeping convulsively. To women, there- is
something really appalling in a man's tears-we look upon
them with more than pity-with awe-with something like
the feeling with which Mary and Martha must have witnessed
the Saviour's tears-with deep revercyice be it said. Cathe-'
rine would have crept by and slipped down stairs quietly~ for
she had a feeling of self-reproach for having even seen that
strong outburst of sorrow; but he stood up and seized her
hand, and drew her towards him, exclaiming-
"Stop,. Catherine! You have seen my weakness! Now,
tell me why you did not write to me of this? Cruel and selfish
girl! were you so intent upon your own projects, that you
could not find time 't6 indite a line to let me know that my
mother was' dying ?"
Another burst of weeping prevented his hearing Catherine~s
gentle ex lanation, that Mrs. Clifton would not permit her
to write. And Kate was not anxious to exculpate herself
from an unjust charge; indeed, after once giving her little,
meek explanation, she never thought of it again-she only
thought of his agony of regret, and only wished to soothe it.
He still held her wrist, unconsciously straining it in the
strength of his emotion, until' it pained' her.. severely. But
she did not care for that, she did not even feel it; she 'only
cared to see him weep so convulsively, and losing tdl '~lf-
consciousness, and with it all reserve, she threw' her arm

4b

V
'24'
I'

122

123


I

124

THE CURSE OF cLIF~YON.

around him, and dropping her head against him most tenderly,
most lovingly, she said-
"Oh, do not grieve so! do not! see how calm and cheer-
ful she is! Try to emulate her calmness !"
"I loved her, Kate! I loved her more than ever son loved
mother before! She was the worth of life to me! I loved
her more than ever I loved human being! More even than
I ever loved you, Kate !"
This was Clifton's first declaration to Catherine, and a
strange time, place and circumstances, and a strange method
of expressing his preference had fallen upon them. "I loved
her more than I ever loved you, Kate !"
But it did not seem strange to Catherine. lit seemed per-
fectly natural and in order. It did not startle her the least.
It did not bring back her womanly self-consciousness, for she
answered, meekly.-.
"I know it-I know you do. And, oh! don't you l~now
that I would willingly give my life for hers, if I could restore
her, in health, to your affections '?"
"And yet you did not even write to let me know she was
ill! 'Oh! girl! girl! you were much to blame for that! It
was bitterly wrong."
".1 told you, but you did not hear me, that she would not
permit mc to write; she did not wish to give you pain, or to
interfere with your arrangements for the year."
"Catherine, that does not excuse you! Could not your
own heart have told you how precious, how inestimable to me
would have been every hour of her company when her days
were x~iimbered ~ Could you not have iw4tten to me se-
cretly '?"
"I never did anything secretly in my life. I should never
have thought of doing so. Il3esides, I could not have had a
secret from her, so open, so frank, so noble as she is. No, I
proposed to write for you to come home, I entreated permis..
'sion to do so, but she refused to grant it, and I def~red to
lier~betterjudgment., I wonld not have deceived her\ for the
world."
Ij~l'heu I have been unjust and unkind to you, Catherine,
hut46mwiltpardon me when I. tell you-when you see how
tho~onghly weakened and. unmanned I. am
The'gust of sorrow~was over, a~hd Kate, with sudden self-
'recollc~tion withdrew herself from hin~, deeply blushing,~and

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON~

125

hastened down stairs, and the thought of her transient self-
forgetfulness rendered the girl even shyer than ever.
He went into his room and refreshed himself with a new
toilet. And when he entered the parlor, an hour after, no
one would have suspected from his handsome, animated face,
the existence of the sorrow that lay subdued at the bottom of
his heart.
They dined together, and after dinner Catherine thought
it best to retire and leave the mother aixd son alone to enjoy
more fully their re-union. When she had left the room-
"How pretty and lady-like Catherine is growing, madam,"
said Major Clifton, looking after her, but addressing his
mother.
"Yes," replied Mrs. Clifton, "lady-like, but not very
pretty; Kate will never be pretty;' but if she be 'blessed to
her mind,' she will be more, she will be handsome."
After spending a long afternoon with his mother, Major
Clifton took temporary leave, and went over to White Cliffs,
to pay his respects to Mrs. Georgia. Most happily for all
concerned, Georgia had just loft home for a visit of some
weeks at ~ichmoud~ignorant, it ~s to be supposed, of Major
Clifton's arrival. He returned and spent the evening with
the ladies at Hardbargain.
The next morning found Mrs. Clifton very much better-and
in the evening she rode out, accompanied by Major Clifton
and Catherine. Mrs. Clifton's cheerfulness infected all the
party-both upon this evening and afterwards. Her decline
was so gradual, so painless, that she never took to her bed--
but when weakest, sat in the easy-chair in the parlor, often
with a little light knitting in her hands, that she would
leisurely work upon, or drop into her lap, to be resumed at
pleasure, while sh~ conversed with Catherine and Major
Clifton, or listened while one of them read, or both sang.
There never were more pleasant~ serene days, than these of
the invalid's gentle decay. It was genial, pensive autumn;
the fall of the leaf without the house, and the fall of the leaf
within.
Catherine was now the housekeeper. She had-through
the increasing weakness of the lady-so gradually slidden
into this office, that she scarcely knew at what time its whole
burden had accumulated upon her. One morning, while
Catherine was in the store-room giving out meal and bacon
to the negroes, Mrs. Clifton and Major Clifton occupied th~

kA~
I
~ ,~


126            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                                                  127

TIlE (iURSE OF OLIFTON.

parlor alone. He had been reading to her from Jeremy
Taylor, but seeing that she had dropped her knitting, and
was sitting back with a look of weariness, he thought it time
to desist and close the book.
"Dear mother, you are fatigued; will you have anything?
What shall I bring you ?"
"Nothing, my son. I am not wearied more than usual,
and it will pass in a 'few minutes."
The lady was silent for a little while, during which Major
Clifton refrained from conversation. And then, after some
little thought, she raised her eyes until they met his own~
and looking at him full in the face, she asked-~
"When are yon going to marry Catherine, Archer ~
Major Clifton started violently, and looked at the lady in
silent astonishment.
"Nay, pray answer me-my question is an earnest one."
"~y dear madam, you have taken mc by surprise !"
"Necessary bluntness, Archer~"
"Very Oliver Cromwellish, madam, my mother."
"You must excuse it, dear Archer. You did not op en
the subject to me, therefore, feeling more anxious upon that
affair than any other on earth, I am forced to broach it to
you. But you have not answered my question yet."
"Dear madam-what~exactly..-was it ?"
"When are you going to marry Catherine ?"
"Upon my honor, my dear madam, I haire no intention
of marrying Catherine; nor have I ever given her reason to
suppose so."
"Ah! I had thought, or rather, I ha~ hoped otherwise,"
said the lady, relapsing into silence, while Major Clifton
subsided into painful thought. Again the dark suspicions
insinuated by Mrs. Georgia, arose in his mind, to be repressed
again with loathing; and he said indignantly to himself.-." It
is pot true! I can never believe her to be an intriguante.
Georgia is mistaken~Georgia's grateful and affectionate in-
terest in my welfare, leads her to unjust suspicions of others.
Kate is noble-hearted-Kate is true-is truth itself. It
would be misery to believe otherwise.
Mrs. Clifton gently interrupted his silent self-communion,
hy saying..-
"'Well, Archer, since you have no intention whatever of
marrying Catherine yourself, you can have no reasonable
ground of objection to her union with another ?"

lie looked up in surprise and anxiety, but soon the
startled expression subsided into calmness, and he replied,
coolly-
~~Catherine'S~UfliOn with another!, Oh! the supposition
involves an impossibility."
"I know you think so, Archer. I know you feel per-
fectly secure of this sweet girl, and just as easy about her as
if she were secured to you by all the chains that church and
state can forge, and that is the reason why you take things
so coolly, and listen to your pride. But I tell you that it is
not as you think. You are Dot forever secure of Catherine.
Our moods of mind, and our views of things, change with
time. And however the maiden may feel or think now, if
you hesitate for years between your pride and love, she will
naturally arrive at the conclusion that many a generous
hearted woman has come to before her, and ~say to herself,
'Well, I cannot be happy myself, but my life n~ust not,
therefore, be wasted-I can make some one else~ happy,'~and
being scorned by one she loves, give herself away to one
who loves her."
Major Clifton started to his feet, with all the dark side of
his character uppermost, exclaiming-
"Let her attempt it! I would stop such a marriage at
the altar! Catherine ie mine, or nobody's. She could not
repel my claims"
"Dear Archer, sit down; do not excite yourself or me.
Remember, I am in a dying state," said the lady, as the best
means of calming him.
"Dear madam, forgive me-forgive me-but why intro..
duce this very embarrassing 'aiid highly exciting subject? I
have had cpnllict enough in my own bosom about it, I love
your favorite, I love 'her jealously, fiercely-I admit it-but
there are objections and difficulties, which time, or a new set
of circumstances, may remove; meanwhile, I could 'not bear
to see her sijatched from me. But there is time enough-
even if I should decide upon such a step, there is time
enough. Kate is very' young yet."
"But yQu;are' not very.yOuIig, Archer."
"I know it, dear madam. 'I have arrived at that age at
which men do not make imprudent marriages for love~Th
"But when they too often~ make unhappy marriages of'
convenienCe~ Dear Archer, it i~ t~ false and sinful principle
that keeps you an~ Catherine apRrt. Will ~ou spoil two

44
I
4,
I

127


128             THE CURSE OF' CLIF'TON.
lives by your pride? Your hesitation between inclination
and prejudice, weakens yen and destroys her."
"'Prejudic~s,' dear madam! Well, I suppose they are
prejudices, but just think of the horror of having Qarl Kava~
nagh, the farm laborer, for a brother4n-law, and being called
'ur~cle' by his ragged ptogeny !"
"Oh, Archer, your inhumanity shocks me-they are hu-
man creatures, after all-this Carl and his family."
"And don't you see besides, madam, that if I should
marry Catherine, and introduce her into society, the first
question would be, 'Who is she?' and the answer by some
good-natured friend, 'The sister of one of his farm laborers,'
would expose us to contempt, if it did not rule us out of
good company."
"Archer! Archer! can it be that you weigh these falsi-
ties with the deep realities of life ?"
"It is a deplorable thing, indeed, that a girl of such noble
nature should come of such ignoble pai'entage."
"No! it is a congratulatory thing !-.or would be so, if it
were not such a usual thing! Archer, you will find more
moral worth, and it may ~be more mental worth, among the
so-called lower classes, than among the higher; for instance,
among the men, look at some of their brows, of Shaksperian
height and breadth-think what they would be with cultiva-
tion! And I tell you, with all their disadvantages, the lower
classes will give to our republic the greatest of her future
great men."~
Major ~Jiifton remained in deep thought for awhile, and
thea/taking the hand of the lady, said-rn
"My dear mother, the objections that I have advanced
are those that have arisen in my mind, from time to time,
giving me much pain. I wished to hold them up before~my-
self, as I have just done, in order to see what they really
consisted of, and looked like. I have seen the worst of
them, and in their ugliest light, and they will not deter me
from taking to my heart the girl I love. I have weighed
them, and th&amp; whole mass is light in the ~balance with my
need of Catherine. II will marry her. I will go and tell
her so now. And the ceremony shall be performed whenever
you think proper."
* The history at' most prominent men of the day verifies the predic-
tion.


THE CURSE 01' CLIFTON.          129
4
"Whenever Kate thinks proper, xny dear Archer," replied
the lady, smiling.
At this moment a servant entered and delivered a note to
2
Major Clifton. It was froni Mrs. Georgia, announcing her
return to White Cliffs, and begging the company of Major
Clifton to tea that evening.
VOL.41.-il
4
I
A
I
4:
4 4


A

180

THE ~UU5E OF CLIFTON.

CHAI'TER' X2~X.
BETROTHAL.
Twas thy high purhy oC souI~
Thy thought revealing eye,
That conquered all my pride of heart,
Thou wanderer from the sky......\V. G. CLARK.
MAJOR CLIFTON held the note between his finger and'
/ thumb, in a fit of abstraction, while a pleasant, contemplative
smile dwelt on his face.
"Well, are you not going to tinswer it ?" asked Mrs. Clif-
ton, adding, "The servant waits."
"Oh! answer it! yes! what is it about ?" he exclaimed,
starting out of his reverie, and glancing at the note again.
Thenihe arose, penned a hasty excuse, and delivering it to
the messenger, dispatched him. Returning from this busi-
ness, he said, "No, I cannot leave home this evening; since
I have come to a decision, I wish to have a good, confidential
talk with my little Kate. How much I have to say to her,
how Aiuch 'to draw from her, if I can. What a prison de-
livery pf thought and emotion it must be on both sides, if I
can get her to talk! But she is so shy, excepti.r when under
some strong,' disinterested feeling for another. Move her
sympathies, and she forgets herself and loses all reserve;
other~ise-..she is so shy."
very, very shy, to yot~. Kate's heart and brain
aie sealed volumes to you. It will require the easy intimacy
of lQng, domestic companionship, to find out all her, e~eel-
lencies. her husband will love and esteem her far wore
dearly and highly than ever lover has done..~-.but hush, here
she comes."'
The door opened, and Catherine entered, from her' morn-
ing's household duties, with her little basket of keys hanging
on her arm.
"Come hither, dear Kate," said Major Clifton,
holding
out his hand. Catherine put her little basket in its place,

THE CURSE OF GLIFTO~.

131

and quietly went to his side~ He encircled her waist with
his arm, and holding both her hands captive in his own,
looked fondly in her face till she dropped her eyes in con-
fusion, and then he said, "Dear Kate, my mother here, who
loves you almost as much as I do, if that were possible, wants
to know when you will make us both happy, by becoming my
wife and her daughter."
He paused for an answer, never removing his eyes from
their gaze upon her gloving cheek.
"Yes, I am very anxious'~to know what day you will give
yourself to us entirely, dear child !" said Mrs. Clifton, and
she also paused for a reply.
Catherine, in extreme confusion, glanced from one to the
other, and finally dropped her eyes again.
"Come, dearest Kate) it is but a word-the name of some
day in the week whispered very low," said Major Clifton, in
her ear.
"Yes, let it be soon; let it be within a week, dear child.
My time is short, Kate, and I wish to bless your marriage
before I go hence. You know I told you that I could calcu-
late the progress of decay, and the length of life with some
accuracy, and I tell you now that my days are num-
bered."
"Come, Kate, if you cannot speak, give me one of your
short, quick ~iods. Come, this is Saturday-shall we. be
married to-morrow ~-next day ~-r'Tuesday ?-Wednesday?
-Thursday ~" Catherine, whose heart had been filling all
this time, now burst into tears. lie drew her head up~n his
shoulder, where she sobbed awhile, until he stooped and
whispered, "Pear Catherine, try to calm yourself-i--do you
not~ee bow you ezeita oizr mother ~ there, lift up your head,
and go to her; and both of you together arrange all these.
little matters as mother and daughter should, and she will
let me know the result,"' and tenaerly withdrawing his arm,
he passed her round before him, and stood het beside Mrs.
Clifton's easy-chair, and arOse and took his hat and left the'
room, with the same happy, half-contemplative smile upon
his lips. Rate sank down~- by the side of Mrs Clifton, and'
dropping her head upon the lady's lap, wept afresh. The
gentle invalid put her hands upon the n~aicb~u's shoulders
caressingly, but did not seek to arrest the current ~f her
emotion. It was plain that the girl 'herself sought tO stay
hor~tears, for; between her sobs, she exclaimed-

I


188

THE CUUSE O~' OLTh'TON4.

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

182

"Forgive-excuse-I know it's ~veak, wrong-At is only
because-I'm so grateful !"
Thc fit of emotion exhausted itself, and she lifted up her
face, wiped her eyes, and said--
"Lady.-"
"Call me mother, Kate."
"Mother! heart's dearest mother! do you think he mis-
took me
"How, Kate ~"
"I couldn't speak! Indeed, indeed I could not! But I
want you to tell him, mother, how grateful I am, and how
happy! Tell him, for I never can, how much and how lone
I have loved him. My heart has been single to him ever
since I first knew him. I will try to make him a good wife -
indeed, indeed I will. And where my weakness or my igno-
rance fails, I will pray to Qeaven daily' for more' strength
and light. Oh! I know what a sacrifice of pride and preju-
dice he has. made for love of me-tell him so, mother, and
tell him-"
"No, dear Kate, I will not tell him that. He has made
no sacrifice. Nonsense. And if he had, you are worth it
all, all-his wealth, rank, position, pride and all!, Be true
to yourself."
"Oh, what am I, that he should indeed 'prefer me to all
the ladies in the great city that he has left; and what can I
bring him but my love and my duty-all my love and ~all ~my
duty!"
"And do you' undervalue these, Kate ~ Why, they are
the tredeures of treasures. And you would judge them so
in ~ case. But here you, are fond and blind. Now,
dearest Kate, I am so anxious to see you the wife of Archer.
And I wish to enjoy that pleasure as long as I cam-when
shall it be ~"
~Mother,' you and he. have made me what I 'am, and given
to my life all its worth and value-now, what can 'I do but
give back myself and life to you ~ Dearest mother, fix it as
you will, I shall' be happy, any way."
"Thursday, Kate 'P''
"Yes, Thursday, dear mother."
The lady then embraced and dismissed her, and settled
herself back in her chair to take a necessary nap.,
Cathei~iite left the parlor in that half~-blissful, half-fearful
trance that 'falls upon one when the great' life's desire and

hope is about to be rea1ized-4ht~PPY beyond measure, but
somewhat incredulous that this could be reallyfaCt~realIY
the "sober certainty of waking bliss," and no dream, and
foreboding some stroke of fate that should snatch the too
great joy from her. ii~Iajor Clifton was standing within the
open front door, looking out upon the glorious antunrn land'
* scape and the changing foliage o.f the trees, some of the Aiter
branches of the latter burning '~ red that they seemed a-fire
in the rays of the afternoon sun. But he turned, to Cathe-
rifle, with a buoyant smile and step, and led her out upon
the piazza. The habitually grave Archer Clifton was almost
gay. lIe was in that happy state of mind that all will re-
cognize who have ever had a severe, long standing moral
conflict brought to end, in which the reason, conscience and
heart are all satisfied. The struggle between the prejudices
of rank and the passion of his soul waAvar, and the strong-
est had conquered, and now reigned alone, and a fine, vigor!.
ou~, healthful joyousness had taken the place of all reserve
and gloom and eccentricity; so great and happy was this
change, that Catherine felt no more the strange, shy fear of
him that had ever placed her at such disadvantage in his
presence. lie led her to a shaded seat at the end of ~ piazza~,
where there -wei~e iio intruders but a glancing line of sun-
light, and nothing to disturb them louder than th~ rustle of,
a falling leaf. A.u&amp; there~ he peered out the long hoarded
mysteries of his heart~ talking on and on as the hours passed,
until successively the sun went dowp, ~nd the stars; i~e out,
and clouds arose and hid them, and shrouded the piazza in
darkness. And still he talked-" an' he would. talk, his
last," not even heeding the approach of a. servant, until
Ilenny's voice was heard, asking Miss Kate to come and give
out tea and sugar for supper. Then he arose,~ and half un~
mindful of the presence of the maid, he said-
"This is very sweet, dear Kate; very, very sweet-to'b~
able to say 'to you everything withoutt reserve-'tO tell you
all the long withheld secrets of niy~oul, and' see y~u listen
with such deep interest; but when will you ~be equt4ly
frank with me.-when will y~u sh&amp;w me, your heart V'
The next day Major Clifton rode over to White Cliffs to
pay his respects to Georgia.'
The beauty received him with unrestrained joy ~, but' in
the conversation that ensued, reverted to what she calle~
"The intrigues of tbaV loW born manceuverer, Miss Kava~
11~

V
Pt
ii


1~34            TH~ CURSE OF CLIFTO?.
nagh," asking him i~ he h~d not observed 'a great dhang~
in Mrs. Clifton, ascribable entirely to her influence ~
It gave Major Clifton great pain to hear Cathei'ine tra.
duced in this manner, but he believed Mi's. Georgia to be
perf~otly sincere in her opinion, and only the victim of a
mistake. He told the 'ladyso, adding-~--
am about to give Miss Kavanagh the highest proof
of confidence that one being can give another. I am about
to take her for ny life's bosom friend. We shall be mar~
i'ied in five days."
Had a bullet sped through her heart, she could not have
given a more agonized bound. Then she struck both hands
to her temples, started hastily half across the floor, paused
again, as if distracted; and suddenly cried out-.
"You sb~dl not do it! By my soul, you shall not do it!
You never, never shall become the dupe of that woman!
I have entered the lists with her. I mean, th;t to save you,
I have done so, and before I leave them, I ill prove her
false and treacherous. God show the right !"
Major Clifton gazed 'upon her in wonder. The strong emo~.
tion that sh~ 'had exhibited, imposed upon him, for there was
no doubting its reality; and far from suspecting its cause, an
unhallowed 'passion 'for himself, he ascribed it solely to her
strong 'conviction of Catherine's niworthiness, and to her
disinterested regai'd for itis~ own we1far~. And when she
c~nie~ ax~d threw herself' ~Upon the' ~of&amp;beside him, and be-'
soi~htj*ith all the eloquence that passion and the 'demon
o6ul~)dnd her, that he would pause and not hurry on to 'his
ruin, his qonfidence in Catherine's integrity was shaken to'the
foi4nidati$~n. And when at the' end of an hour he rode home,
he i'eiiohed Hardbargain as miserable as the doubt of one be-
l*e4 ~an 'make a wan~ If love has the Divine power of'
transfiguring its object until faults are excellencies, suspicion
~bssesses th9 demoniac' faculty" of deforming its victim until
vfrtu~s se~ni vices; und under its' influence 'the highest and
best' gifts of the maiden, her intellect, virtues, and graces
wcr&amp;turned against her; 'her talent seemed intriguing art;
her meekne~s 'and humility became meanness and sycophancy;
her '~iety, hypocrisy; and her girlish shyness the sinister
reserve of conscious guilt.
iTt Wa~ well that on his return he met Catherin4 only in his
mother's presence, where deep regard for the' lady~ .~onstrajned
him" 'ihto" something 1ik~ forbearance; though even then his

~ifl~ CURS1~ 0? OLTFTON..

1185

~rioody manner excited some uneasiness in 'the bosoms of the
two ladies. ' When Catherine left the room to order dinner,
'the conversation that ensued tended' to strengthen his newly
revived suspicions. Mrs. Clifton told him, that with his con-
s~1it she would like to leave 'the farm of Hardbargain to (4ath-
erine, as a testimony of her esteem and affection.
"And for a more' practical reason; too,~' she saidht~.for
you know, my dear Archer, that the estate of White Cliffs
being entailed-if you should die' before her; and without
male ehildren~Oatherine and her~ daughters; if she should
have any, would be left homeless. IBut if I leave her this
farm of Hardbargain,' it can make no difference to you during
your life, and if Catherine happen to' survive you, it will se-
mire her a home. What do'you think of this plan, Archer ~
You look grave and troubled. If you have the slightest
objection, LwUl not carry it out, of course."
"Surely I have not' the least 'right to object, my dear
mother ; ~your property you havO made by your own labor,
and improved by your own admirable management."
"You have the right of nature, my dear Archer; and' I
see by your gravity, that you dislike this arrangement; there-'
fore it shall not be made."
"You mistake my thoughtfulness, dear madam. If I am
somewhat grave, it is upon another subject. Believe me, I
have not the slightest fault to find With this plan ;' neither
does it take me by surprise, I have been prepared for it mo~'zth~.
since. Mrs. Georgia Clifton informed ~n2ie that such was your
intention."
"Is it possible ~ How could Georgia have known any~
thing about it ~ But T suppose she has heard me drop words
to that effect. May I hope then, that this purpose meets yeur
approbation,' Archer ~"
,"Certainly, madam, it can make no material difference, if
Kate is to be my wife. ~And, if she were not to be so, I should
be quite as well' pleased."
Unconscious of th~ double meaning of' his words, the lady
then inquired into the cause 'of hie gloom.
"Merely a fit of moodiness, dear mother; the reactions
perhaps, of yesterday's joy; a mere depression of spirits,
which a brisk gallop over the hills will throw off."
"If you are inclined for a ride, Archer, you can do me a
~erv~ice at the same time, if you will go to~ Ii-'----~ and bring
out Mr. 'White, the lawyer, to di~aw up my wilt"

4;


I

186 '

TIlE C~IRSE OP CLIFTON.

A spasm of p~ain passed over the handsome countenance
9f Major Clifton, and he said-...
"I will do anything you please, dearest mother; but surely
there is no necessity for haste in this matter."
"Archer, there i.~ Besides, 'ny wind will be easier when
it is done. And Archer, lastly~.-bring with you a olergyma~.
J ~wi~h to receive the Holy Communion."
Major V~ifton made no farther objection, but left the room
to order his horse; and in less than half an hour he found
himself on his way to 2L-~-.-. Mrs. Clifton summoned
Kate. When the girl entered, she found the lady on the
verge of fainting from over-exertion and extreme weakness.
Catherine grew pale with sudden fear, and her hands trem-
bled as she poured out and, administered a restorative. Some..
what revived by the cordial, Mrs. Ulifton ~aid~-.
"Kate, write two notes, one to Mrs. Georgia Clifton, and
one to your brother Carl, asking each of them to come here
this evening to witness a deed-~r rather two of them, my
dear Kate-.-.the signing of my last will and testament, and
the solemnization of your marriage-..for both must be has-
tened, Kate. 'My dear child, take your pen and write at
once."
Dee~ily troubled, extremely agitated, yet struggling tc
govern her feelings, Catherine found the writing materials
and penned the twQ notes; but when she had finished them,
~w~he~ahstraction of her great grief, she misdirected them-
~nd sei~t the note intended' for Mrs. Georgia to Carl Ka-
v~nagh, and that intended for Carl to Mrs. Georgia. When
she Jw~d dispatched these Dotes by different messengers, and
reti~pe&amp;4o the parlor,. Mrs. Clifton said..-..
* "Call Uenny, my dear l~ate,, and let her assist you in
getting me up stairs. It has come at last, Kate."
Alnlost.~disrn&amp;ycd by sorrow, Catherine rung the bell that
Jwught the. Servants into the. room. And between them
they raised the lady to her feet. Mrs~ Clifton~ took a long
look around the room, as though she were taking a last leave
of every dear familiar object in it; and then suffered her.~
self to be supported up to her cha'nber.
Mrs. Georgia Clifton was pacing her chamber floor, in all
the distraction of excited. evil passions, racking her brain for

THE ~UE~SE OF OLIFTONi

"37

an expedient to ruin her rival and break off. the impending
marriage, when the "spirits that tend on mort4 thoughts,"
furnished her with one. A messenger entered and handed
her a sealed envelope, directed in the handwriting of Cathe-
rine Kavanagh. She opened it in. surprise, curiosity, and
even in some degree of vague, guilty fear, and found within
the misdirected note of Kate to Carl. It read simply as
follows:
"DEAR CARL :-~
"Mrs. Clifton is almost dying. She says you must come to
the house this afternoon, at four o'clock, to meet a lawyer
and a clergyman, and with Mrs. Georgia Clifton, to witness
the signing of her last will, and also niy marriage. Do not
keep her waiting.                ~~CATHERJNE."
This note contained no expression of esteem or affection
for the invalid, or regret at her approaching death. No! for
Catherine's veneration and sorrow were too earnest, too real,
to be a matter of wordy formula. But in the evil heart of
Georgia this simplicity was turned against the girl. And her
first idea, revealed4 in her smile of satisfaction, was to show
this mis-sent note to Archer Clifton, and bid him look and
see with what perfect coolness and indifference the writer
could announce the approaching demise of her benefactress.
But while this thought was. revolving in her mind, Satan
suggested a surer pIan~-a deadly stratagem. And ~t this
inspiration of the fiend, the idark face of ~he baleful 'woman
lighted up with demoniac joy. She seize4~ the note again,
and rushed to the window, and scanned \the han4-~riting
Georgia inherited all the imitatiye talent ~f her father, the
portrait-painter. Catherine's handwriting was nniq~ue : ~snall,
square letters, with heavy strokes, a chirogaphy peculiar, to
herself, yet easily imitated. Mrs. Georgia copied *a few
selected words~compared them with the originals, and was
satisfied with her work. Next she wished to procure note
paper, exactly like it. Catherine's note was written upon
neutral~tinted paper, that had been given her by Major
Clifton. Mrs. Georgia recognized it as some, that had be-
longed to him. She thought there might possibly be a few
stray sheets in the writing-table of the library. She went
thither, and after a diligent search, found a single sheet.
This she took with her, and returned t~ her chamber, locked
herself in, and sat down to her fiendish task. Perfectly

.1;


18$             THR CURSII OF CLIF~o~.
imitating the handwriting of Catherine
lowing letter:                     , she forged the fob
"DXARi~5T CARL
"My long slavery is almost over. The old woman is at her
last gasp, and wants you to come over this afternoon at four
o'clock, to ~witness her will ,, and my marriage. You see I
have succeeded in catching the aristocrat, and in wheedling
his mother into giving me Hardbargain, in my sole right.
Am I not a triumphant diplomatist? Whe~n she is dead,
ttnd I an~ married, and mistress of White Cliffs arid of Hard-
bargain, as I shall probably reside at the principal seat, I
inten~ to let you this farm, on the easiest terms. Never fear
Major Clifton's interference. You knew I know how to
manage him.                       "CATJIERINE."
When ~he had completed her demon-work, ~eorgin care-
fully examined it. It satisfied her. She smiled, and mut,.
tered-" .~y one who ever saw Catherine's queer hand-
writing, would feel safe in swearing thi8 to be hers." Then
she folded it in the form of ~the other, note, and placed it in
the original envelope.-and threw it, broken-sealed as it was,
upon the table, ~rcla1ming..-.." There !-.-~
"'I have set my life upon a cast,
And will abide the ha*ard of thedie.'"
In the ~meanwhile, Catherine watched by the bedside of
1~frs. ~Clif~on, awaiting the returki of Major Clifton, with the
clergyman and the attorney.
About three o'clock in the afternoon 'the party arrived.
The professrone~ gentlemen remained in' the parlor, while
l~Iajor Clifton iver~t up into the chamber of his mother. As
Ire approae~red her bed, and perceived' th~ fearful. change a
few hours had wrought in her appearance7 and recognized
the sure approach of death, he was so shocked, so overwhelmed
with soi~row, that it was with the utr~ro~t difficulty he could
sustain his self-oornnand.
She held'out to him'her wasted hand, saying, ~rietly~-~..*
C~ M~ dear Archer, I wish to have the marriage ceremonyy
betweeri you and K
please."           ate performed thfs afternoon, if :v~,u

TFIB CURSE OF CLIFTON.

139

"Certainly, my dear mother, it shall be as you desire,"
he replied, repressing a great groan-but desirous, above aU
things, to gratify that dying parent. "Shall it be now,
mother ?"
"No, dear Archer, not just yet-I want the holiest things
left for the last-I want the will drawn up, witnessed, signed
and sealed first; then the marriage ceremony performed ~
and last, I wish to receive the floly Communion-after which,
I shall be ready to depart."
"Mother-the minister and the lawyer are below stairs,
awaiting your lei~ure~-theY will remain over to-night. :Do
not disturb yourself."
"My good Archer, I made Catherine write to Carl Kava~
nagh and to Mrs. Georgia to come to see me this afternoon',
they have not yet arrived. Please go and send again for
them."
Arclwr Clifton bent and kissea his mother's forehead, and
went down stairs. In the hall he saw Carl Kavanagh, hat
in hand, waiting.
Carl immediately advanced? and said-
"Ah! Major Clifton, I am waiting here to see my sister,
to return to her this note, that she has sent me by mistake..
I t~ink~perh5p5 you can explain it." And he handed to
Archer Clifton the mis-sent note .of Catherine to Georgia.
Major Clifton understood the mistake at once, and retain-
ing the note, replied-
"Catherine wrote two notes, summoning yourself and Mrs.
Georgia Clifton tO IIardb~rgain, this afternoon, to witJieSs
the signature of a certain document. She placed them in
envelopes, and in her haste misdirected them-that is all.
Pray remain here, while I ride over home,'aftd bring Mrs.
Georgia."
Carl. Kavanagh sat down in the hall, and Major Clifton
mounted a fresh horse, and galloped over to White Cliffs.
Dismounthig at the gate, h~ threw the reins to a servant,
and entering the house, sent a message to Mrs. Georgia.
The servant returned, and requesting Major Clifton to fol-
low, led the way up to Mrs. Georgia's own room, opened the
door, t~nuounoed the visitor, and retired.
Archer entered the yoom, and found- the lady seated at
her worl~-table, but looking pale and anxious. ]3y her wor]~
box tay the envelope of Kate's true note with the forged note
in it.

4


"Ah !" said Major Clifton, 'after greeting her, "I see
that~you have 'received Kate's note."
~C Yes-.-one that was never intended' for my eyes, but of
tbos0 of a fellow conspirator."
~* Oonspirator, madam!'
'P Yes, sir. Do you surmise all the consequences of these
mis-pent letters? Look at this 1"' she said, throwing it to
him, "~s+itten by Miss i(avanagb, but directed by mistake
to me. Yes, look at it! Examine the envelope! and then
read 'the contentss of the note !"
Major Cl4~ton glanced at the superscriptiou, opened the
note, and read it through with a cheek growing pale and
paler-until he finished it.-then tossed it from him, and
b~zryin~ his face in his hands' groaned aloud, lie had not
the slightest suspicion that the infamous letter was a forgery
-no !---he had not a single merciful doubt tnat it was the
work ofOatherine-nay, he would have sworn to the hand-
writing, if called upon to do so in a court of justice-he
would have sworn to it though Kate's life hung upon his oath!
Any one else who had ever seen her peculiar chirography
would have 'felt constrained to do so, if reque~ted-save two
..~-she who' lay dying at.Hardbargain.....and 'she was to know
''nothing about it-and he, the rejected lover, now far away,
who would have cast thal~ note aside in high disdain, and
staked hishonor on her truth. Clifton groaned aloud, in the
bitterness of disappointed esteem. Resentment itself was
swallowed up' in sorrow, and he exclaimed-.
"Oh! would to God she had died, Or I had, before I knew
this!"
:: R4oice, rather, that you are saved !"
madam !"
"Yes--saved. You will never marry her, now! You are
perfectly justifiable in breaking with the unmasked traitress !"
"And in shaking the' last few sands in my' mother's glass
of life. The discovery of that girl's treachery has driven
me to despair-it~would kill my mother! No, lady! 'I must
'marry her, that my beloved mother may depart in peace.".
"Marry her !" screamed 'Georgia, with the cry of a
wounded hyena-.--" marry' her, and sacrifice all your hopes
of happiness, for the sake of keeping quiet the last 'few hours
of a dying woman! You will not 'do such a thing!"'
"My hopes of happiness, did you say, Mrs. Clifton ~ Ah,
lady, can you not comprehend, then, that when one at my age

14

140.           TIlE CIJI~sE OF CLIFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF' CLIFTON.           141
has discovered-beyond all possibility of doubt-the total
unworthiness of one the most beloved on earth-the heart's
most~herished darling-the life's dearest hope-" down broke
his voice, and down dropped his head upon his hands-thon
rising, impatiently, he~exclaizned-" I say, can, you not cern-.
prehend that I have tro hopes of happiness left? I loved her
so! I trusted her so! I sacrificed 8uch strong prejudices
for her! And I was as happy as a converted sinner, when
the struggle was over and the sacrifice made. I could haVe
shaken hands with her freckled-handed brother, and claimed
kindred with all his rugged race! And now !-I am un..
nianne4! , I am a fool !"'
"No, you are not, unless ~om marry her. You are not the
first noble-winded man that has been duped by a bad-woman!
You fool it as every generous-hearted wan would. But it
will pass. Life has, many chances, and you will be happy
yet. .Afy 'friendship is not much, perhaps, but is it not some-
thing?"
~ friend, it is much," said
Archer Clifton, slowly-half soliloquizing, as he took and
held her hand. Then suddenly starting, as out of a reverie,
he exclaimed-" Mrs. Clifton, you know my errand here-it
is to bring you over to Hi~rdbargain, for the purpose of which
you have already been advised by the note." -
"To be present at your mad marriage, among other
things I"
"I will not go! - I cannot! I cannot witness such a
/
"As you please, dear Georgia. I suppose there is no im-
perativ'e necessity of your doing so-goo4-bye!" and he arose,
and lifted~his hat from the table.
"Yes! good-bye, indeed! replied Georgia, bitterly-
"good-bye, indeed! if you persist in your insane purpose!
-I shall re~nain here, and hope to the last. But when I
hear that this marriage has really taken place, I leave White
Cliffs within the hour!"
"You will think differently, dear lady, and I shall, see you
again, shortly."'
"Never !-as the husband of that traitress."
lie did not reply. He 'raised her hand to his lips, an4 left
her. to herself, wad i~ipulsea seized, the disappointed ~VO7
VOL. II.-.-12


142           TIlE CURSE 'OF CLIFTON.

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON~         143

mnan.T At-one instant she was impelled to seize. the 'forged
letter, and rush to the death-bed of Mrs. Clifton, and there
denounce her favorite as a hypocrite and a traitress. I3ut a
moitient's' reflection con~rin~ed her that no art of. hers could
*iaduce- the dying woman to think evil of the excellentgirl 4e
herself had educated. That on the contrary, such a step might
possibly result 'in her own signal defeat and exposure, and
the everlasting anger and contempt of Archer Clifton. her
brain was beginning to reel, and her self-confidence to wane.
In sudden fear she looked around for the forged letter, in-
tending to burn it. It was nowhere to be' seen. Then she
recollected that Major Clifton had, on departing, picked it
tip, and - put it in his pocket. - And- sick with disappointed
love; jealousy, batied, and- fear, sha tottered towards a lounge,
- -but ere she reached it, fell upon the floor. In the meanwhile,
Major Clifton, riding at full speed, reached' the farm honse.
On reaching Hardbargain, Major Clifton went immediately
to Mrs. Clifton's chamber. lie found her still sinking.. She
inquired, in a faint voice, whether' he -had brought Mrs.
Georgia. lie replied, with perhaps a pardonable ambiguity
of speech, that Mrs. Georgia was too much indisposed to at-
tend. Then she said that she supposed Mr. White (the
clergyman) would consent to act in~her stead. She informed
him that the attorney had been with her, and had drawn up
her will according to her instruction, and she requested that
the parties might be assembled in her room to witness the
signing. Major Clifton left the chamber to summon them 'and
soon returned, accompanied by the lai~yer, the mifii~ter,'Car1
Kavanagh and Catherine. The will was then read, after which
'the lady was raised up in bed, and supported in the arms of
he&amp;'son; the document was placed upon a portfolio tin'd laid
l~efore her, and a pen dipped in ink and presented to her.
She signed her name, and immediately sank back exhausted.
The twTo witnesses affixed their signatures, and the will was
delivered into the custody of the attorney. A restorative
was administered to the invalid, 'and she was arranged com-
fortably upon her pillows. Then she ~.took the hand of her
son, and whispered.-.-.
"Let the marriage ceremony be performed at once, dearest
Archer."
lie pressed that wan hand,~laid it tenderly down upon-the
cove4et, and spoke apart with the clergynian, who occupied
the chair beside the head of the be&amp;- The 'ihinist~r solemnly

arose, drew a prayer-book from his pocket a~d opened it.
Major Clifton went quietly and spoke a few words in expla-
nation to the lawyer and Carl Kavanagh, who then approached
the bed-side. Lastly, he took the hand- of-Catherine, and led
her up before the minister. The marriage ceremony- com-
menced.' It was performed according- to the ritu4 of the
Protestant Episcopal Church. But when the great question
was put to the bridegroom-" Archer, 'wilt thou have this
woman to be thy wedded wife, to live together, after God's
ordinance, in the holy estate of matrimony V Wilt thou love
her, comfort her, honor' her,'" etc.-instead of answering,
according to the ritual, "I will," he' replied by a grave and
formal bow, with silent 11ps, "that scarce their scorn for-i
bore." When the corresponding question was' put to the
bride, 'Kate too replied by 'a gentle inclination of the head,
but her true heart responded sincerely, earnestly. When
the last benediction was given, and when, according to'the
old formula, the bridegroom was to salute his bride, he merely
torched her cheek with cold lips, and passed her on to his
mother, who held out her arms to embrace her daughter.
The singularity of Major Clifton's manner was scarcely no-
ticed, or it was ascribed to 'the solemnity of the attending
circumstances. Mrs.' Ofifton now desired tliat all, with the
exception of her son and daughter and the clergyman, should
bid her adieu and leave the room. - 11cr request was complied
with, and when they had retired, she signified her wish to
partake of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper with her chil-
dren. Major Clifton was constrained to decline, upon con-
scientious scruples; for how could he partake of the Sacra-
ment of peace and brotherly lovewith his heart consumed
with indignation against his newly.rharried bride ~ Catherine,
however, participated in' the Holy Communion, while he
looked on with surprise, mixed with 'a degree of horror.
When the sacred rite was over, the minister of God took an
affectionate leave, and departed. 'When the minister was
gone, and they were left alone together, the dying mother
beckoned her son and daughter to come and sit near her.
They obeyed her, and she addressed them a few words~ of
earnest, affectionate counsel, blessed them, and resigned her-
self to rest. Her eyelids closed calmly, and her breathing
was gentle and regular; they had to mark attentively before
they knew that it greu~ fainter and fainter. Once she opened
her eyes, and, smiling her old; reflecting smile, said-

O0


144            2~HE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

"Dear Archer, I have often tried to detect thc exact mo-
1ne~t of falling asleep. I watch now, to see if I can seize
the precise instant of passing from mortal to immortal life."
And she closed her eyes again. After a few minutes, she
said-~-
"Sing fo me, dear Kate! You know-Ileber's death
hymn."
Catheiine bent and kissed the pallid lips of the dying wo~
man~ and then her voice arose, sweet, clear and' spiritual as
angels' songs, in that immortal z~equisni.-..
"Vital spark of heavenly flame,
Quit, ol~! quit this mortal frame;~
Trembling, hoping, lingering, flying,
Oh ! 'the pain, the bliss of dying~
hark! they whisper, angels say-
-       Sister spirit, come ~tway-
'At the end of the first stanza, she murmured, faintly-.-.~
"Your voice, too, dear Archer."
His voice arose now in unison with Catherine's, and they
sang the remainder-
"The world recedes--it disappears:
heaven opens on my eyes; my ears
With sounds seraphie ring.
Lend, lend your wing~; I mount, I fly!
01w, grave, where is thy victory?
Oh, death; where is th~r sting?"
They ceased, and looked' upon the marble face before
them. It. was still in death, but there remained upon the
countenance the impress of the ecstatic smile with which the
spirit bi~d taken its flight-.-
"Her death
Was like the setting of a planet mild."

144

THE 0U~$E 01' OLI1'TON.~.         145
CHAPTER XXXt.
* THE POISON WORKS.
'Tis stander;
Whose edge is sharper than the sword; whose tongue
Q~itvenoms all the worms of the $ile..-SuA1sEAR~.
Wiip i. Archer Clifton saw that all indeed was over; when
he looked up~n that mother-face, ,the first which had ever met
his conscious gaze in life; that old, familiar face, which
seemed to him coeval with. his being, and a necessary part
of it; that face the most intimate, the most loving, the most~
faithful which bad ever shone 'upon his path of life ;-and
felt that it was lost forever; that the light of those quiet,
eyes was darkened fore'vet; the sound of that kind voice
silenced forever; the smile of those calm lips fled forever ;-
when he clasped tl~it 'mother"hand, and felt that' those dear,
fingers wonid close upon his own in cordial grasp never, never
more ;.-~-oh! when JAe'felt that all was over, over, "finished,
done and ended," he tell upon his knees by the corpse,
dropped his head upon the cold, inanimate bosom, and broke
into convulsive sobs.
Weeping freely, Catherine knelt by his side, and 'put her
arm around his neck. lie was unconscious of her presence,
until, after giving way to sorrow for a few~ moments, she
lifted up her head, and wiped her eyes, and controlling her
own emotion, sought to console him.-
'"iDo not grieve so, dear Archer," she. murmured, with
her arm again around him, "do not grieve, but pray."
Then indeed he suddenly grew calm, unclasped the gentle
arm of Catherine from his neck, arose slowly from his kneel-
ing posture, took her hand, and raised her upon' her feet, and
regarding her with a stern and sorrowful countenance, said,
in severe rebuke-'
"Come ! madam! no1 mor~ hypocrisy now! None here
at least! It is useless hereafter! You have accomplished.
your design.' You are a 'successful diplomatist,' and your
'long slavery' is now over.~~
12~

4

N


2!tfl2 0tT1LSZ~ o~' ofr~ro~4;

Catherine lifted her eyes, dilated with sorrow and amaze-
ment, and fixed them on his. face an instant; but the look
she met there, the expression of mingled suffering and se-
verity, such as might have sat upon the brow of Brutus,
when the feelings of 'the' man andi th&amp; duty of the judge
strove in his bosom, awed her into silence before him. She
could express no surprise or grief~-.-ask no explanation. The
old shyness and fear came over her, and her eyes fell, and
her cheeks paled. Again he spoke in the same stern, sor-
rowful tofre~-
"Ay, cower with conscious guilt! You are' discovered!
And you should have 'been unmasked before her to-day, but
that I did not wish to' embitter her last' moment! that only
sa'~ed you! Come! leave the room that you desecrate with
~tour ~resenoer!' Leave me alouie' wit'h'my dead !"
Bixt~ instead, of obeying, she ~stood like a statue before
hini.
Then he took her hand and led he~ through the door, and
closed it 'b~lxi~d her.
'Ca~therine~ood' there where~he had placed her, amazed,
eonf6und~d, iix~able to move a step fi~rwa~rd, until th~ thought
of practio~l duties, no~v pressing upon her, gave her sti~ength,
and she pa~s~d' on' to summ~xi those ,ivMse o~oe~ it' was to
pr~~ax~e' the 'dead for burjal. Wit ain~d ill' the ihultifarious
tasks', that' 'devolyed' upon her at 'that'trying t:in~, ~as newly
ijustalled and unassisted' mistress 'of th~ 'house, ~he could not
for' an instant forget her awful bereavement, oi~'~h~ dreadful
~ixgei' of 'hex~ .husb~nd.
He came but? 'of the 'roonv of death at last,' and passed
Cat'h&amp;rine' on' the' st~irs,~ and his stern, averted countenance
at that moment "almost' broke her heart. But she went on
enduringly with her tasks. Often she 'raised her soul in
~ii'~iyer.'to' God' f6r help. Once, 'during that desolate night,
she foun4 time tt open her Bible, and her eyes fell upon this
fezt:' R~xans, 8,28.~ "And'we know that 'all things work
tpgeUi'erfor'go~d, 't6tjfem Lh4 love God"~-~-she paused upon
the' text, ~epe~tifi~, "" all thirigs,'all tlii~g8, even this.! I
will beli~v~e it !" And "hef" face grew beautiful with divine
faith, and she reverently closed the book; and went 'on her
way coinforted.' $he' had need 'of' fresh strength. and' com-
fort, indeed, to meet a fresh trial. "On coming down stairs
~he' met Hexin~, ~vho seemed to be on the 'look out for her,

~fj~                                                                                                                                                                            S

146

I

147

and who placed a note in her hand~ It was from Major
dii46n, and read as follows-"
"I desire that you keep your chamber to-morrow, or, at
least, refrain from insulting the inetnory of the. dead, by ap-
pearingat the funeral.       ARCHER CLIFTON."
She nodded her head ~Iowly, meditatively, with a look of
sweetest resignation; then beckoned Iknny to follow her, and
returned to her chamber. There she sat down and wrote the
following note-
"I will absent myself from the funeral, since you wish me
to. do so;' T will also keep my room, if you desire it, when I
remind you that there is no one ~to supply my place in the
household arrangements for the solemnities of the day.
"CATHERINE."
She s~nt this by Henny, but received no reply to it. Con-
struing silence into consent, she went about the house as
usual attending to her duties.
In .th&amp; meantime, Mttjor Clifton sat in his study, awaiting
an answer to a note he had written to Mrs. Georgia, apprising
her of the recent events, and requesting her to come at 'oncO
to the house. He had not to waitr long; hi&amp;~me~seii~er re-
turned, and informed him that he had met the I&amp;dy on her
way to L-, to take 'the'stage coach to 'Richmond. 'the
main, at the same time, gtwe theintelligenee that Mr. Kava-
nagh waited in the hall, to know if he. cotild be of any service
to Major Clifton on the present occasion.
"Show.hiin in," said Major Clifton.
The d~ian went out and soon returned, acco~npanied by
Carl, .whose face, expressed the most profound and sincere
sympathy.
"Set a chair for Mr. Kavanagb, an&amp;."retire, James."
The man obeyed, Carl seated, himself, and in person re-
peated, his condolences, and his 'teixders of service.
In reply, Major Clifton took from his pocket the forged
note and laid it before iii~n, sayixig, '~oIdly~-
'4here is the note y6ur .~ister Wrote tQ you, and. sent by
mistake tQ Mrs. Georgia Clifton. Read it."
Carl took it 'up, wondering what might be the use of read-
ing it now, lint as he ,glanced over its contents, his. keyes
giew wide with astonishment, and w1ien he had finished it,
he laid it down again, exclaiming-


148

THE CURSE 9F CLIFTON.

am confounded!"
"I should think so, sir !" coldly remarked Major Clifton.
"She speaks of. letting me the' farm! I never had the
slightest. desire to rent the farm, and before I heard the will
read, I had n~t'even the slightest idea that Mrs. Clifton de..
signed to leave' it to my sister!"
"Ah!. .'R~aJiy ?" ~asked Mr. Clifton, ironically.
"Really ,and 'truly~, and sincerely and positively, I had
not~"
"Tautological asseveration is no evidence. Why should
she have written to you thus if you had not ?"
'"How d~ I know, sir ~ I tell' you I am amazed! And
if 1. did not know, beyond all possibility of doubt, the hand-'
writing to be Catherine's, I should say that she did not' write,
and that she never could have written such a letter."
"Which means plainly this, that if there did not exist the
most positive proof to the contrary, you would fain deny it,"
sneered Major Clifton.
"Yes, sir !" answered Carl, boldly. "If the proof posi-
tive to my mind, as well as to your own did not exist, I would
deny it, and I do deny any personal agency or knowledge
about it whatever!' I say to you that I am amazed!. It is
incomprehensible' tQ me how Catherine eouldhave conceived,
~nuoh lese written such a letter! And above all things, it is
inexplicable how she should have written so disrespectfully
of Mrs. Clifton, whom she loved and venerated so much."
"Or 'whom,, for certain purposes, she ~pretended to love
an~ venerate so much."
"She a~id, sir! She really did. She was sincere in her
esteem and affection. 'She w~as sincere in' all things.",
".1 know she affected rare sincerity."
"It was 'no affectation, Major Clifton. I have known her
from childhood-it was truth. And I tell you, I scarcely
believe my own eyes! I scarcely believe that I am awake
when I see that letter! 'I am confounded !"
'~ Well, sir !" 'said Majpr, Clifton, sternly, his whole man-
iier changing, '"1, at least am not' so confounded as "not to
know that she never would have written such a letter to you,
ha4 you not been th~ confidant of. her plans. And you are
not so~ confounded as to be i~n6rant~ that, after such a de-
velopment, I am constrained to forbid you the house, and to
interdict ~ll communication between 'your sister &amp;nd your-
~clf"

I

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          149
There was something of Catherine's own nobility in the
manner of Carl's reply. He stood a moment with his fore-
head thrown back, as if incalm, unimpassioned thought, then
he said-
" Major Clifton, my sister is now your wife, and you have,
doubtless, the perfect right to control her actions-neither
do I accuse you of undue severity in this affair, for, under
like circumstances, I should, perhaps, be tempted to act in
the same way. I cannot account for this letter. For' the
present, it must remain unexplained. Nor can I exculpate
myself any more than my sister from the odium of a suspicion,
which God knows I am willing to bear with her, since II can-
not clear hei~ of it. You do not l~now how dear to an only
brother's heart is his. only sister. Yes! I am willing to share
the odium with her, hoping, knowing that it will pass away
in time. And then, Major Clifton, you will feel ~more pain
at the recollection of the injustice you have done us, than I
feel now in suffering it. You will be more augry with your-
self than I could be with you. You will reproach yourself
more bitterly than I could reproach you, were I never so in-
dignant. And I am not indignant at all! I could not be
so! All feelings are subdued to calmness in the sacred
proximity of the unburied dead in the nest room. One thing
only remains to be said. It is this: I camiot continue to
live upon this place, under the cloud of the niaster's ilL.
opinion. . My engagement as manager of this farm terminateS
with this year,' I shall be glad, if before the time expires,
you will provide yourself with another overseer.~,
"As you please, Mr. Kavanagh. Yet I should not have
sent you away with your young family."
"You are considerate, sir !" said Carl, bowing, then add-
ing-.-." I ,presume you have no further commands for me,
Major Clifton 4"
"None, Mr. Kavanagh."
"Good-night, sir."
"Good-night."
The next day was the day of the funeral. Before the peo-
ple began to assemble, Catherine, impelled by an irresistible
desire to gaze once more upon the face of her beloved friend,
found herself at the door of the front parlor in which the
corpse was laid out for burial. But here, with her hand
upon the lock, she hesitated~ and finally stifling her crying
want, turned away, saying within herself-" No, I will not


i~fl)           TILE CURSE OP CLIFTON.
intrude. I will be 'guided by the spirit as well as by the
Jotter of his commands. He will not accept my love. To
yield hin~ perfect unquestioning obedience is all the earthly
comfort I have left." And she began to retrace her steps.
Major Clifton came out of the back room and met her face
to face.                     -
"What were you doing near that door, Catherinc ?"
I wished to take a last look at her dear.-" Here Kate
burst into tears and wept convulsively a few minutes-.~during
which, Clifton watched her in stern sortow. Then controlling
herself, she said, "I wished to look once more, and for the
last time, upon her beloved face. But wh~en I reached the
door, and was about to enter, I remembered your commands
and turned back."
* Clifton, who had never taken -his eyes from her, groaned
aloud.' Then he, said, gravely and sadly-.
"Catherine, if any feeling of penitential sorrow. inspires
your wish to go there, go, in Heaven's name! And ma the
sight of that dead face bring you to repentance." ~
She turned to thank, him, and ask him what he wished her
to repent-but before-she could find words, he had re-entered
his study Catherine passed into the room of death, turned
down the pall, and gazed upon the face of the dead. 'It had
changed very much-every furrow and every wrinkle was
softened out of it, the forehead was as smooth as the brow
of chddhood, an ineffable divine repose. spread like a dteam
of Heaven over the features. Catherine's tears were stayed,
the convulsions of her bosom were calmed, her soul was awed
and exalted as she gazed upon this conutenance, so beautiful
in death. 'But at last her full heart revealed itSelf in a look
of unutterable tenderness and devotion, and she 'murmured,
in low,, slow, gentle tones-" You always loved and trusted
me, and for your dear sake, I will be a good wife to your son.
Yes! whatever he may be to me, for youx dear sake, as well
as for his own, I will be a good wife to hini. hear my vow
--I cannot think you dead. This is all I see-this beautiful,
calm clay; but I know your spirit hovers near. Hear my
vow. Hear me promise, with God's grace, to dedicate all my
faculties of brain, and heart, and ha9da to his interest and
happiness! to bear all things, to endure all things, to hope
all things, even to the end of life, eorne what may ;" she
stooped ~nd sealed her vow by a farewell kiss upon the brow
and lips of that beloved face, and reverently covered it, and

TILE CURSE OF' CLIFTON.          151

'-not to abuse her privilege by too 'long a stay-slowly left
the room.' She never saw that face again. -
Within an hour afterwards, the 'company began to assemble
in great crowds, for Mrs. Clifton was widely known and
greatly respected and beloved. ~The clergyman, who was to
perform the burial service, arrived, and the solemnity com-.
menced. In the mean time Catherine sat in her distant
chamber, listening to' the faint, inaudible sound of the min-
ister's voice that reached her from afar, or else, engaged in
prayer, but always calmed, strengthened and consoled. Many
peopl&amp; at the funeral wondered greatly why the young bride
had not appeared with ~her husband; but some one imagined
it to be because she was too much overcome by. sorrow to be
present, and told it as a fact, which was at once believed, and
circulated. Ansi. that.-like many an other idle falsehood,
satisfactorily silenced conjecture. When the services were
over, and the funeral procession had left the house for the
grave~yard-when Catherine felt that her more than mother
was now indeed gone, gone, gone-she cast herself upon her
bed in the last agony of sorrow.
Little household cares. What blessed though humble
ministers to sorrow they are-gently drawing away the mourn-
er from the contemplation of her grief, and compelling atten-
tion to themselves. So they give~, occupation, and induce
forgetfulnes5~aiding in their humble way the great comfort-
ers, religion and time. An hour spent in bitter tears and sobs,
and then the little domestic duties came ho~rering about her
like little children, claiming her care. There was a large sup-
per to be prepared, and bed-chambers to be got ready for
friemb who had come from the remoter parts of ~he county,
and who would therefore remain until the' next morning.
And ~o Catherine arose and refreshed herself with cold water
and a change of 'dress, and dent below stairs to superintend
the operations of her cook and house-miiaids.
When everything was in readiness, she went into the draw-
in~-room, where she received the returning visitors with a
pensive, gentle dignity that won all their hearts, proud con~-
servators-of rank a~ they were.' And that evening, young
girl and new bride as she was, she presided at the head of
the long table, filled with' the county aristocrats, with all the
ease and grace of a lady " to the manner born."' Preoccu-
pied by one earnest thought and purpose, she never once re-
memnbered herself as a new comem" into their ranks, or
1~

4

I


TU~ CURSE 01' CLIFTON.
troubled herself with the question of what might be their
opinion of her. For the rest, her courtesy wa~ graceful and
dignified, because it was natural, and not assumed-the effect
of benevolence and kindly social feeling, and not of pride,
vanity, or ostentation.
The next morning, after breakfast, the guests departed.
And many and cordial were th~ invitations to their houses
extended to Catherine by all--.even the haughtiest defenders
of the sacredness of caste. Catherine received all these
civilities with a gracious nobleness, that sat naturally 'and
well upon her. .And all this-the very evident esteem and
respect of her neighbors, and the admirable manner in which
Catherine received them, would have highly gratified the
pride of Major Clifton, could anything except her exculpa-
tion from suspicion have pleased him. As it was, he witnessed
it all with a moody brow, and sneering lip, and murmured
to himself-
"Better and better, 'Maria Teresa.' You should have
seen more of the world, before you threw your diplQmatic
talents away upon me, and my country neighbors."
Welt, at letigth they were all, to the very last guest, gone,
and Major Clifton and Catherine 'were left alone, left stand~
ing together in the hail, whence they had seen the departures.
Catherine, hesitating between her fear of' intruding upon
his notice, and 'her dislike to leave him abruptly and rudely,
stood-no longer self-possessed and noble-but with h~r eyes
llxed upon the ~ground, and with the color deepening in~ her
cheek, in embarrassed~ silence, wishing that he might say
something to her, something to explain the nature of that
dark cloud that had arisen so strangely between them.
He broke the silence by saying, coldly-v-.
"Mrs. Clifton-.-." ~he started and colored, at hearing
herself addressefl~ by her new' name. "It is my intention to
make White Cliffs our future home. I desire that you b~
ready to accompany me thither to-morrow morning."
Catherine bowed her head in acquiescence. And with a
cold nod, he placed his hat upon his head, and walked forth.
Catherine went in~ and occupied the remainder of the day
in directing the labor of her servants, who were all employed
in setting4he house'jn order after the late, confusing events,
in packing away goods, ~and e9vering up furniture, and in
preparing generally for the closing up of the building.

158

CHAPTER XXXII.
* DEDICATION.
Stand up, look below,
It is my life at thy feet I throw,
To step with ipto light and joy,
Nota power of life but I'll em ploy
To satisfy thy nature's want.-BRoWNING.
THE next morning after breakfast, the family carriage was
announced to take them to White Cliffs. Catherine put on
her bonnet and shawl, az~d stood waiting, until Major Clifton,
draWing on his gloves, csuue forward, and attended' her to the
carriage door. He handed her in, entered himself, took the
Beat opposite to her, and bade the coachman drive~ on. The
whole distance 'between. ,Hardbargain and White Cliffs was
passed rover in perfect silence by the parties. Major Clifton
preserving a stern gravity 'of demeanor, and Catherine
scarcely daring to lift her eyes, lest she 'should encounter
that severe but sorrowful gaze that almost 'broke her heart.
She longed to inquire-
"'Oh, Major Clifton'! 'What is this that has arisen between
us ~ Give ~the misery. a i~ame ! Tell ~eV" But 'the shy-
ness and fear she had always felt in his presence, and doubly
felt when he wait reserved or disple~ed,' and above all, the
bashfulness of new bridehood, forced her' into silence.
At last the ride' was over,' and the carriage stopped before
the m~ju entrance of 'the inansion4aouse.
The' plantation laborers, in their boiyda.y clothes, mar-
shalled by the overseer, were .assembled~ upon the lawn, and
the house servante in'their "Sutiday's'best," with the house"
keeper at their head, waited on the piazza "to pay tKeir
duty.'?
When the carriage haa drawn up, Major listenn alighted~
and assisted his bride to get out. He led~ her up'the marble
stairs to the fr6nt door. The housekeeper with a curtsey,

I

I

'"K

THE CURSE 03' OLIPTON.


154

TilE CURSE' OF 'GL1FTON~.

stepped forward to attend her. But with the courteous
kindness that Major Clifton seldom omitted, he waved her
aside, merely saying-
"Mrs. Mercer, send all these women about their duties,
and tell Turnbull' to disperse the men. I do not wish to be
disturbed.' There is my pocket-bopk-~.-give them what they
want-only let me be quiet."
"And' give them my love and good-wishes," murmured
Catherine, shyly, but not wishing. t~ dismiss' them so coldly,
for her desolate heart had been comforted by the looks of
sincere respect and affection with which they had seemed to
receive and accept her as their new mistress.
Major Clifton merely threw upliis chin 'with an assenting
nQd, muttering-
"The popularity-seeking instinct of the diplomatist." He
'then conducted her into the drawing-room, led her up its
whole length,'and seated her upon a sofa with ironical cere-
mony, saying-...
"Mrs.'Ciifton, you are welcome to White Cliffs."
Startled by his tone, she looked up, lifting those long,
drooping lashes, until her soft, dark eyes at last met his cold,
rebuking gaze.
Then 1is who4p aspect changed, and 'from' having been sar~
castle and scornful, became graveand severe. Standing' be~
fore her, he folded his arms, drew himself up, and keeping
his eyes fixed steadily upon her faee~ said..-.. '
"And now, ~lady, listen to me. The aim and' object of
yoi4ir life is accomplished-consummated. ' You have at
leiigth attained 'the position to which yoWhave' long aspired,
for whie~a you have'lon~ and deeply and suCcessfully played.
You are nunibered among the ladies of 'the county~ aristo-
cracy. You bear the haughtiest name of all. You' are i~frs.
Clifton~ of Clifton."
~All this time her~ eyes, wide open, dilated; fascinated by
surprise and grief, met 'his stern gaze in sorrowful wonder.
He continued-.-'
'"Yes, ~madaw, you wear xkxy name such as it is! You
rule my house' such ~as it is! 'But' 7as 'for its' poor master,
lady, lie is your most humble servant, but no lover !"''
Her eyes fell beneath his sarcastic' look, and she ~*as
tempted to wish herself dead.' ' '
lie continued..-.-
."I leave lier4 in 'a few days, for the purpose of i~aising 'a

I

155

T~IE CURSE OF CLiFTON.'

cQmpany to ~er~ve in the coming war with Great Britain. You
wifl remain here at Whit&amp; Cliffs to~ take charge of affairs
during my absence~ If you~ really hojj~ed~ to' flaunt. in the
city this WintOl', I ~m sorry for your disappointment. But
there are duties as well as dignities attending the position
of, th~ mistress ~f Clifton, and 'these must not be neglected.
I shall exact their'performance.~ The overseer and the farm
laborers, as ~ell as the: housekeeper and her' assistants, have
orders to obey you in everything. Gopd-morning, maclam."
And so abruptly h~ ~turned upon his heel and left her.
One mon~ent Bhe 8at there amazed, &amp;~nfiiscd, with her hands
pressed upenJier temples; and. in another, losing all feeling
for herself-feeling only for him,, she sprung to. 'his side, and
caught his hand, exclaiming-
"Stay! For the love of fleaven, stay! one monient-.
only one moment, while you tell me. Oh! after all, have I.
made ~ unhappy !"
"Unhappy!. You have been and you are the bane of my
life!"  ?          .....eaven, how?' when I ony wish to
Merciful T~                     1
consecrate untie to you!".'
"Do you dare to ask me!"
"Well !-tell me-.--tell me! how can I remedy my fault.-.-
whatever it is! Whai~' can I. do t~ comfort you ~"
"JV'othing but refrain from troubling rn~ with your com-
pany or conversation, when it is not absolutely necessary.
Ageiu.....goo4-inorning." And so he. freed himself 'from her
clasp, and left the r~o~n.
She tottered backwards and fell into a chair, her head
droppedupon her hands and she gasped~-
"All-merciful Father, do not forsake me now, for I am
desolate-I am. desolate." And ah~1sat despairing, fallen,
the very image of utter seltabandqnfl2ent. She sat there
until aroused by the voice of the ' housekeeper, who entered
the room, came up 1~o TIer side, and spoke to her twice before
she hear4-then~.-" What did you say!4 she asked.
"I have come to receive your orders for the day, Mrs.
Clifton."         to manage, to-day, without my advice,
I-I am not well-and very,, very weary.
"You look so, indeed~ madam. There is a fire kindled in
your chamber, will you ~o up there and lie down, and let me
bring you a cup of tea!'


156

TIlE 'OURS!! OF CLIFTON.

*1

~C        No, I thank you-I am much obliged to you.
But-only'leave'nie here to rest.'7
The housekeeper went 'and closed the shutters: stirred the
fire, set a screen between it and Catherine's seat, and quietly
Withdrew.
"Oh! this will never do !" said Catherine, trying to rouse'
herself from her stupor of despair. "This will never do.
To-day I' fiave 'made 'a bad beginning; but to-morrow I must
rise and 'be as actiVe. anwi efficient as if I were happy."
She met Majoi~ Clifton again at dinner. The meal passed
almost in silence, 'aiid'inmie'diately after it waSover, 1he took
his hat and left the house, ~She did not see 'him again until
tea-time, ~fter which, lie w~ and spent ~the evening in his
study. Catherine felt the need of calm thought, to under-
stand her ~6sitiqn and duties; and of player, to gain strength
and patience to~erform them. She spent ~e~eral hours in
reading the Scriptures, in meditation,~ and in prayer, and
then; comforted, retired to bed.' She arose early the next
morning, strengthened sand consoled, with a very clear per-
~eption' of her circumstances and responsibilities.
"My path through this intricate trouble is made very
plain. I must discharge every domestic. duty and every
Social obligation, ~just as &amp;ithfully, if not as cheerfiuly, as
though I were a happy wife," she said. And she went down
stairsand gave her orders fi~r the day.
When ~aj6r Vlifton came down into the broalcgast-room
lie 'found a quiet' cheerful scene--a sunny window, a bright
fire, a well, spread breakfast-table, and Catherine herself, in
her simple morning-dress; looking calm and placid. There
wa8 an expression of Curi&amp;usly blended anger and admiration
~nd amusement '6n his face, as he flapped his dressing..gown
'around' him, and 'dropped himself into the easy-chair by the
fire, giving her "Good-morning," and hoping that 'she iras
well.
"As usual," replied Cathe4ne,' handing him the paper
that h~d just come from the village, and ringing for break-
fast. '
When the meal was over, he reseated himself in the arm-
'chair, 'reading th9 newspaper, while Catherine still sat at the
board~ pouring out bowls of coffee, aiid, filling plates with
toast, or' x~ifthi~, 'to send to the old or' ~jck among the ne-
~grOe44Iiese bsing~always'supplied with their meals' from the
mistress's table. Major Clifton glanced: 'ever the top of his

~EII!~ OTJI~8E OF OLIFTONt

167T

paper at. her,' sometinws ,in irony, sometimes in 'sorrow,
always in doubt., And sh~-.unpleasant as his manner was,
felt glad to have him near her. I really believe that she had
rather he 'sat there and made faces at her, than not sat there
at all. And she felt lonesome and dreary when at:last he
left the room, put on his riding-coat 'and left the house. As
yesterday passed, so passed to-day--she meeting hin~ only at
meals. And so a week' passed on. It i~ not easy to be
very heroic for a day, or two, or~ three days; but when one
day follows another, each with, the same 'continuous, e~tra-
ordinary demand for fortitude, it is strange, indeed, if heart
and flesh do not fail' under the task. Nothing but Divine
Providence can give the requisite strength of endurance'. In
the presence of h~r husband,,Catherine was calm and cheer-
ful; 'but often in her private hours the sense of desolate be-
reavement would come over her, and gusts of tears and sobs
would ,follow. These, like the summer gusts of blessed na-
ture, would always refresh her, and she would be enabled
again to take tI~e comforting. promisess of the Bible to her
heart, in her favorite text~-" And we know that all things
work together for good,' to them that love. God," and to ask
God's blessing again upon her~resolution "to perform ,every
domestic and'every social duty as faithfully, W not as cheer-
fully, as~ though, she were a 'happy wife," And yet it was
very hard to do this. IL was very dreary to feel shut out
from her husband's heart; to meet hin~~ every slay with the
same stern, sorrowful brow,~ or in variation of that, with the
same. ironical' smile. It was difficult to go on with a repulsed
and aching heart, doing mere. mechanical duty., She could
nothave done so but that two powerful principles sustained
her..-an invincible love for her husband, and an unwavering
faith in God.
One~ morning, about two weeks after their arrival at home,
Major Clifton si~t alone, reading, in. luis~tudy, when the door
opened, and Catherine entered. It was ~ 'first '~i~e that
she had intruded there,' and he looked up, tlgew aside his
book, arose, and pushed back his chair with a look of anuoy~
axice.
"Excuse me for interrupting you, but may I speak to you
for a few minutes ~"
'~"Speak on;.madam, ~ut oblige me 'by being brief. ?ar-
don me-take a seat," he said~ handing her a chair. and re.~
suing his own.
13*'


A

158

TE OUIWE'OP OLXFTO~.

CMherine sat down, feIt~ very mu~h like another fit of sobs
piid tears, but restrained herself, and said, quietly.-..
"M~jot Clifton, whatever this is between us-~"
"I tVr~iuiiid you that thi~'is a prohibited subject of
discussion, madam, he said, interrupt~rig her.
"1~*ifl iiot talk of it again-how can I,~ indeed~ when I
do. not' know what i~ is'?"
He made a gesture of angry disbelief, and b   her to
some at once to the ~     df h~ visit.'    egged
Well, then, I wished only at first to say, that whatever be
the cause of this oruel misunderstanding between us, it will
pass aW~y~ YQu look at me in surpriSe and doubt-but it
linil, Ntajor' Cliftoii-.it 'will-it' must--there is no truth and
reality in' 'it;' and it must be temporary. I have thought it
AU ovOr, v~*y sadly, bitt very c~Imly and clearly, and I know
that it 'ni~d ~be transient'~ Myfai~h bridges 'over this mi-
practicabl&amp; present in our live~, and I see the. future, when
you will lnderstahd me~ I never did anything to offend you
in my life. And God, to whom I have committed oui- ckuse,
knows m I ocenee; and in' His' good time' lie will make it
plain. it "~iust 'be so.' The promise of the All-Merciful,
the Almighty Father, is pledged t~ 'the Right!"
He turnedd' a*ayfromher;~with a stamp of fierce displea-
sure. li~ turned 'away from' h&amp;r sav&amp;~ely, because he felt
that, had he' locked' a~d listened a moment longer, he should
have abjured ~llhi~ ~vil thoi~ghts, and snatched her to 'his.
b6~oiii..-~he was' So patient, So hOpeful, sobeautiful with truth
~nd love, thafi he ',could ~carceIy resist the impulse to fold
her to l4~'heart-.4alse' as he deemed her to' be. As it was,
he sup~~saed the tru~ 'instinctd...~.oheyed the false suspicion,
and ttiriiin~ again sh~ply'up6wher, demanded to know, once
for all, to what this new piece of hypocrisy~ tended.
"I'          ,Major Clifton.-.that as our estrangement
needs be transient-.-do not~ under~ its infiuence,'let us
or omit to de, 'anything that may hereafter 'affect, unhap~.
pily, our~social relation~ with others~"
"Thus. The county families have all called upon us. It'
is hi~h time that we returz 'their 'visits, if' we mean 'to 'keep
up the connection."
"'0h4 'Ay~!' 'Excellently well thought of, Maria Teresa!"
he ~s~e~red'.
With a passing look of distress, she said-..

THE CURSE 0 0LIFT01~.

159

"I only fear that oni' pleasant intercourse with the neigh-
bors may not be so easily resumed, if they have reason to
suppose that we treat them with indifference and neglect."
"Admirably' caleiilatedmadaii'! A contingency has pre-
sented itself to your diplomatic wisdom, that never would
have occurred to my simpler wind. So, you wish to confirm
your position, and extend your connection here in the county!
Well! the. aristocrats of R-, have certainly, taken you
up with a zeal and determination that is surprising. But
when they hav~e once wade up their haughty minds to patro-
nize a new comer, it is wonderful to what length they will
go. But yoa may thank your own fine diplomatic talents for
'that !"
"Diplomatic talents! What diplomatic talents'? So many
people have 'thrust' that questionable 'greatness' upon me,
that. it mortifies me.' No-I know the~ only' value 'and cur-
rency I have among the 'county people, is' the value you have
given me-the stamps of your name and rank. And I-I
do not wish to disparage it. 1 wish to appear worthy of it-
that is all."
"And you really believe what you say'?"
"Truly, I do."
Again she lo~ke'd so 'lovely; in her truth and hunillity, that
he wa~ almost tempted to relent. And again' the impulse
only .iiade him more unjust.
"In a word, 'madam, v~'hat do you wish me' to do, for I
begin ~weary 'of thiS disOusSion. Nor is it well', to subject
myself ~to ~he influence of' your fascinations, 'for I 'candidly
admit to you that I am sensibleof them,.as others haVe been."
"I only wished to propose to you to take a -day, and drive
around the neighborhood with me~ to return' the 'calls that
have l~een made upon ~uS."
""Very well, madam;' i~ am 'at yoi~ c6mnninds whenever
you please to call upon me for that service; When do you
propose to go'?"
"At your earliest convenience."
"Will to-morrow ao ~"
"If you please."
"To-morrow Thou let it be. And now, Mrs. Clifton, have
you any further commands for me'?"
"'Thank you- n6,'? she answOred,, very' sadly, and turned
to leave, the room-.he~itated, came baek, a~d resting her
hand~ upon the study-table for support, because she was

4
4


160

TIIR OJ~$EOF CLIPTO1~7.

tre~pbling, said, "Forgive'me.....-and let rue speak to you one
more worAl, will you?"
"What is it ?"
I~' is so sorrowful to be misunderstood. Please, do ~iot
mistake we in% this matter. For myself, I do not care to fob
low up my ~qu~intance with, these county people. I have
lived all u~y ljfe.without extensive social intercourse. I have
lived alJ u~y~ life in st4ct domestic retirement. I am so used
to it that~ it is natural and agreeable to me. Indeed, I prefer
"Well?"
She was suddenly silent. She wished to say, "But with
you it is otherwise; ~, Living in the county, you need, or will
bere~fter need an extensive' neighborhood connection. And
foi~ your sake, I would not alienate these peopfrby neglect."
]3ut she couhi not say 1t. Her old shyness, and a delicate
fear. ~f seeming to wish to place him under an obligation; kept
her mute.
"Well, Mrs. Clifton? If such seclusion is so agreeable to
you, why do you wish to change it?"
"I owe the ladies some, acknowledgment of their* civility
to us."
~ farther to say to~me ~
No,'~said Catherine, and with anj~ivoluntary gesture of
pain and distress, she turned and left. the room, with all her
generous thoughts: unspoken. Wlieii' the door had closed
behind her, ~Archer Clifton started. up~ struck, his clenched
hands: to his forehead, and. pacing up and down the floor, dis-
tractedly exclaimed-..
"I love:her I love her! It is no us~, IL do Jove her!
Every day more deeply and desperately I 'lov~ her ~., In her
presence all her unworthiness is"f9rgptten or 'disbelieved!
Yes! yes! her deep.. hypocrisy, her black ingratitude;my
Aflothe~'s wrongs, alIall are~lost to. memory! Just now I
could have snatched her to my bosom and wept over her
falsehood, rather than have cast her from me! Yes, more!
I could have implored her 'forgiveness for 'ever believing in
that guilt which is but too well proved! Ilove her!, She is
the pulse of my heart! the soul of my life! She embodies all
the meaning of 'existence t~ rue! Heart and brain.-yes i-.
bodysonl and spirit, starve, perish for' a. full 'reconciliation
and a perfect union'witI~ her! She is lovely, she is beautiful
to me! She always was! Yet, oh! Apple of Sodon~, that

U

she is! shall I take such falsehood and corruption to my
heart! I muSt leave the house! must leave the neighbor-
hood ! fo~ here I wilt and wither! And she! how cw~ she
bear it? for I think, with all her falseness, she loves me very
much. How catz shLe bear life so? . How, can she rise each
morning and go thi'ough all the occupations of the day so
regularly, quietly, cheerfully, day after day ?-omitting no
duty, domestic or social, small or great, from the stitching
my ripped gloves, to the keeping up of the county ~connec-
tion, in sooth! While 1, I daily wilt, wither, in this moral
mildew-idle, despairing, forgetting' all my obligations-for
getting that my country needs my arm! .This cannot last!
This must not be! I must get a*ay from here! I must raise
a volunteer company, ftnd offer myself to the government, and
in the tumult of the eampaigi fri forgetfulness or a grave!"
Unable to compose himself again that mowing, he rand
the bell, ordered his horse, seized his hat, went out, mounted,
and ~rode away.
The neit morning Catherine arose early, and among her
orders for the day directed that the carriage should be at the
door by ten o'clock. At th~ appointed hour~.she attired her-
self with carc and taste, and went down into the front hall,
where she found Major Clifton in readiness to attend her.
They entered the carriage and set out, and in the course of a #
drive of five or six hours' duration, made the circuit of the
neighborhood, calling upon several families. And every-
where Catherine. was received with distinguished respect.
They reached home again about the ni&amp;dle of the afternoon.
The next few days passed on. in the usual dreary routine~.-
except that Catherine knew Major ~Oliftoi~ was out riding
every day and all day, and that he was in his study writing
half the night. She did not knoW that this p~rte~ded until
one morning he said to her--
"Mrs. Clifton, you will oblige me b~ having my watdrobe
prepared and packed at your earliest convenience. I have
orders to join the - regiment within a week."
Catherine turned very pale and reeled as if she would have
fallen, but grasped the chair and steadied herself, till strength
returned.
"All shall be ready for you," she r~eplied.
And he, with a cold bow of acknowledgment, went his way.

I

b

161

~11E CURSE OP OLIPTOfr&amp;


1632

~IIE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

CHAPTER xxxiii.
~~THE MEEKNEss OF LOVx.~'
So she Strove against her weakness,
Though at times her spirit sank;
Shaped her heart With woman's 'neckties,,
To all duties of her ~
CATHERINE re~nained seated in the chair-into which she
had sunk, with her face buried in' her open palms.' Her
fiivonte maid lenny, from the Hardbargam farm-house, was
in attendance. lenny had cleared away the breakfast ~ser-
vice, vith the reception of the ejiver plate,' which was 'col-
lected upon a salver; and she stood by her mistress's chair
waiting, in respectful sympathy; at last she said-.
Miss Kate, honey, if you lend me the 'keys o' the plate
closet, I can put away the things' safe, without your troublin
o' yourself!" ' '
Catherine lifted heriiead languidly, atid pushing away her
drooping hair,' explained, quite 'unconsciously, and as if :the
words burst of themselves fron~a her overbur~1eued bosom-.-'
Oh! Henny, if. yoji knew how little heart I have to do
anything !"
"I does know it, mist'es~, deary; but 'you urns' jes take a
fictionn on to it, honey, an'~ 'eider bow it ain't on'y niarster,
but moe' in general all the geinmum in the neighborhood, as
is gwine far the wars."
Regretting tb~t ehe had permitted a complaint to escape
her lips, yet ~atistied that her servant did not understand or
suspect the' true cause of her sorrow, Catherine arose, and
"Take up the salver and follow w~, lenny. Idle grief
is very fruitless. If we cannot keep our friends with us, it
is better to prep~re. for their Oouforta(bl~ living whije absent,
t.ban to.~it dq~n in u~eiess sorrow."
"An' that's the Lord's trufe, Miss Kate," said lenny,
lifting the laden salver on her head, and settling it Mteadily,

163

"that s Marster blessed trufe! 'Sides which, II has a heap
to' do myself, to get brother Jack's dude ready, to go long o'
Marse Archy.~~
A' Is your brother going with Major Clifton, Ilenny ?"
"'Deed he is, honey-~-gwine to ride body-servant long o'
master, to wait on him in camp; likewise~ in' field o' battle,
to hold his t'other horses in ease his whichest on~should be
shot unnerneaf of him-~Oh, Lord. Master Jesus! what a
thing ':that is to think of! Likewise in. soldier's newniform,
on the bay horse Billy, which brother Jack would sell his
mortal soul any time, 'for the sake o' dressing fine, an' ridin'
a horseback-cussed, infunnelly fool !----I axes your pardon,
Miss Kate; don't look so '~oyed, honey; I won't use bad
words again-'deed, 'fore my blessed, Hebbenly Marster
w6n't I, honey; but it is so aggravoking, when I comes to
think o' what a slave I've made o' myself to brother Jack,
ever since mother died, and the' 'turn he makes me for it,
wanting' to go gallivauntin' off to the wars. in soldier's
clothes, an' a long tailed horse! Here ha~ I been~ 'jecting
some o' the most illegible colored men 'in the neighborhood,
an' bein' of an old maid, sake o' takin' care o~ him, 'cause
he's delicy in his health, an' he to be wanting' to go leave me!
An' he, with ai 'suinption in his breas', to want4o~go; 'spos-
ing of himself getting' his feet wet sogerin'! An~~"he 'blige
to wear a tar plaster on his~ ches', to be caxiipin' out an' lay-
in' on the naked yeth! An' knows he can't congest nothm'
but rabbits an' partridges, an' wants to go where he'll have
to live offen roas' tators, like Gin'al Marion an' his men, in
the' Resolationary War! It mos'~-mos'--.mos'-breaks my
heart !"
And with that lenny set down the salver and began to
cry, while her mistress opened. the pl~ite closet.
"Put them in, Henny, and I will s~e what can be done
for you afterwards," said Catherine.
Henny obeyed, and then said; as 'they left the room-
"If you 'could 'snade MarAe Archy to leave poor Jack,
poor sickly fellow, at 'home, an' take some o' the other young~
niggers. Der ain't' ~ne o' them but 'ould be 'joyed to go.
Der's .Dandy now, 'ould be willia' 'to go' to his everlastin'
ruination, 'sake o' ridin' body-sarvant long' o' marster-".
"I will speak to Major Clifton, IThnny~ You know him
to be kind and considerate'.' And I am sure, he is not aware
'of Jack's pulmonary affection."

J 4

V"

THE CURSE OF CLWTO~.


I

Till CU~SE OF CLIFTON.

E
*16~

1t~4           ,. THR OURSE OF CLIFTON.
"Yes ha i~, ~Xiss Kate, honey! 'Deed he knows allabout
Jsck's 'fection forhini! High, honey! ain't Jack been own
man to Marse Arehy ev~ since they was boys together ~
An' didn't Jack wait ~n him. when lie wur at college, and
'ole Mist pay extra for him'? 'De.ed she did, honey! 'Fore
my blessed~ iiebbenly Lord, did she! An' he knows all
'bout Jae~'s 'feetion for him, and he knows Jack 'ould follow
him to the md o' the world,.an' jump off arter him! Lotd
love your heart, Miss Kate, ther ain't no, d~g marster's got,
loves him mOre faithful 'an brother Jack does." -
Kate sighed very deeply, with a preoccupied air, but an-
swered.-.-.
"I will speak to Major Clifton in your heh~lf, flenny-.
now go and ask Mrs. 'Mereer to come to me in my own
chamber."       -
AndOatherine passed on to her own apartment, and Henny
went her errand. Very~ soon the housekeeper entered the
chamber, ~and found Catherine busily engaged among linen,
'stockings, ~~rayats,' and ether "beloDgings."
"Iwant your as8i5tance, Mrs. Mercer, in preparing Major
Clifton's' wardrobe this week."
."My dear child, I am so sorry! But I have been waiting
~for an: hour to speak to you. The truth is, I have just got
a. letter'fr~nn my eon-in-law, who writes that~ my daugl~ter Is
very; extremely low, with the bilious pleurisy, and wants me
to Oonie right over, to L 'inunediately, without loss of
time,: and I thought I would ask you for a leave of absence,
till she got better."
"An4, certainly,,I could not refuse it, Mrs. Mercer.. I am
sorry y~Vur daughter is ill."
"And, my dear child, .1 was going to ~sk you if you could
let me have ~ne of the muje~ this morningg, and I' would sen~I
'itbaek to-woryow'?"'
"The weather is too cold, and the journey too arduous for
a woman of your age to perform it in that manner. Tell
Dandy to 'rut the horses to AJie carriage for you."
A "The~earriage, dear honey, I shouldn'tt think of such a
thing. As: many years as lihave been living in the family, I
never used the marriage once. The mule will
if you ~will let tue ,rder             , do very well,
~'~!rs. Mercer, why not '1 I shall not want it to-day. To-
morrow Dandy can bring it homes"
"God bless you, child! you are so good hearted! It

0
jf
'U
U'
U'

I'
"U

* is a sin too to leave you, so thronged as you are with
work." *,can get-get through,", replied Kate, with the
"No, I
same troubled, preoccupied air that had marked her manner
the whole morning. Mrs. Mercer soon after took leave
and departed.'
Au hour after this, Catherine heard Major Clifton enter
the hall door and come up stairs. To her surprise, he paused
before her chamber door and rapped. When she opened it,
he said~~-
"Will you favor me' *ith your company in my study for a
few minutes, Mrs. Clifton ?"
Catherine immediately laid down her work and followed
him.
When they reached the study, he set her a chair near
the writing-table, and dropping in~to another, drew a port-
folio 'before 'him, opened it, and turning out a number of'
papers, saicF-
"Mrs. Clifton, I told you, some weeks since, fhat at my
departure, and during my indefinite absence, I should be'
obliged to leave~ this estate under your charge ?"
"Yes," answered Catherine attentively.
"I am well aware that it"is'undoubtedly an onerous burden;
and responsibility for one so young, butIwhen you feel it so,
remember that you, yourself, courted the position, and must
be content to take the toils 'with the honors, real or ima-
ginary.
Passing over his bitter jibe, Catherine said-
"You need not doubt in leaving all to my care that all,
will go: well. I am not twenty yet, it 'is trite, but IL have had
mueh'irork'.and' .mu~h experience for my age, so that ~every
year I bave lived since 'ten -y@ars. ofll haa counted~ double.'
~You need suffer no anxiety in trusting w~c."
He looked' al her countenance, at once noble' and meek in'
expressiolt; 'he: remembered the life of toil, self-denial,, and
devotion she had livea; he even recollected' a certain text of
Scripture which said, "By their fr~dts ye shall know them-
do men gather 1kor~ if'fig trees?" but the demon ..f oher-'
ished~ suspicion' whispered, "'Twas all done f~r a purpose,"
and he hardened his heart, 'and replied-
"Oh! madam, I have no doubt 'or hesitation in placing
the plantation under your care, and I shall have no anxiety
in leaving it so for an indefinite period; not only because I
VOL. II.-.-14

fi


'.4
4'        4
I'
44
44~~
IF
ii

TflI~ CURSE OF CJJFTON;

have much fajth in your natural talents and acquired' expe-
rience, but, also, because I have more confidence in your
~e1f-kve. And knowing that you know our interests in the
prosperity 'of "thisestate to .be identical, I rest assured that
you will do for it your 'very best."
"lie-in all other circumstances, and to all other people.-..
so uobl~, so liberal, so charitable-he never speaks to me
but to upbraid iiie !'~ was' the thought that presented itself
to Catherine's mind, but with the loyalty' of her nature she
repelled it, saying, within herself, "It is because he .has wht4
he thiid~s condemning evidence 'of n~y unworthiness.-would
he but charge me! would he but tell me what it. is ~"
"Will you give me your attention, Mrs. 'Clifton ?" 'he
asked) breaking into her sad reverie.
Catherine bowed gently.
A~id he took down the "farm-book" from a shelf, opened
it, and laying it'~before her, entered upon a series of details
and explanations on both debt and credit sides of the ac-
counts, with which' it is not' necessary to trouble the reader.
After' two or three hoius spent in 'looking' over bills, com-
paring them with receipts, calculating results, ate., he closed
the book, replaced the papers in the portfolio, clasped it, and
turning around to Catherine, sajd-~' '
"Y6u understand, now ?"
"Yes, perfectly."
"As~foi~' these heavy notes that will. fall due the first of
January, you must contrive an interview with the holders,
and get them renewed' upon security-.-~as I said before, re-
memberY
~'I shall not forget."" '
'C
No, or if you 'do, the holders of the;notes. will ~bring
them to your recollection in not~the pleasantest manner. And
now, Mrs. Clifton, I wish you to keep a vigilant eye 'over
Turnbirll, and hold 'him to ,a strict account. 'I ~u~pect the
man. i I never 'have been able to nuderatand' how, with such
~' heavy force of negroeson this pIantation~ it ~bas been i~eces-
sary to hire about ,a baker'~ dozen of 'white laborers, all of
them, 'you understand, his own elatim~s~..4rothers~ sons,
and nephews !.' I have' reason 'to mistrust' the fellow, but
no time 'to look after' him. Ikid him to a strict account,
"Suppose, ~or the coming year, you should 'place my

I

TIlE' CURSE OF CLIFTON.

167

br6thei Carl here as overseer I 'You have tested his skill
and probity."
This was a very unlucky proposition on Catherine's part.
lie sat back in his ~hair, and looking at her in steady scorn;
said-
"Yes, madam, I have 'tested his skill and probity,' and
know so well the degree of the former, and the quality of the
latter, that I have already forbid him to set foot on my pre-
inises or speak to my wife. 'Do you dare to think that I am
your dupe, or his ~ And now, hear me:' In all the directions
that I have given you, I have simply desired or requested
you' to do this or that, bu~ in this matter of your perfidious
brother Carl, I command you to hold no intercourse with him
whatever."
"You shall be obeyed," said Catherine, "you shall be
obeyed," and she thought-" Your simplest wish, expressed
to that effect, would have had all the power of this arbitrary
command,"---but she did~not say it. She was never free of
speech, least of all to him. 'And now he arose, as if to con-
chide the interview. And she recollected her promise to
lienny, to intercede for Jack, and' always more courageous
in the cauSe of any, even the humblest, than in her own, she
gently detained him, by~ saying-";I wished to. speak to you
about th~ servant you intend to take with you."
"JackW
"Yes. You were not home last winter,, and you do not
know that he was sick with a cough the whole winter, and
that he is ~on5umptive.~~
" I' have sometimes thought so, however! Well ~"
"Indeed I feel that it is properly no business of mine, and
I beg you will excuse my interference. I would not willingly,
lamsure "
"To the point, 'if you please, Mrs. Clifton."
"Well, I am afraid that if youtake'~him, and expose him
to the unavoidable 'hardships of campaign ~life, he will fall
sick on your hands, and instead of being a help, be a hind-
rance. Therefore it is much more for your sake than for the
boy's own, that I should be pleased 'if you would le&amp;ve' him
here and take another."
"There is much reason in what~you have advanced, Mrs.
Clifton. Yet, among all the negroes on the place, there is
none but Jack who seems fit for the duty, the others are' all

166

4'

I


''4~' "7Y~
':5

4*

168             THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.
too yotnig or too old, or too hopelessly stupid and lumber
ing.
"There. is. Dandy, a handsome, likely mulatto, strong and
intelligent, dressy and enterprising, the very man foi~ an
officer's servant; he would be very proud and glad to attend
you.,'
"Oh! ay! I know that he is anxious to go; but he is
your cavriage'driver and waiter, Catherine, and I cannot
think of ~lepriving you of him."
"There are other careful drivers on the place. Please
take him with you."
"Yes-but those Other careful 'drivers are awkward, ill-
looking, farm4aborers, accustomed
after ok-teams        *        to drivfrig and hallooing
"flave I been so long used to a carriage, as to be choice
in my coachman, then? Please do not think of that."
"And then he is your~waiter and messenger."
"Oh, believe me, I do not need him. Pray take him
with you. ]T~ is so active, intelligent and faithful, that he
will be of inestimable value to you in the campaign."
"It is precisely because he is so active~ intelligent and
faithful, that I am unwilling to deprive you of his services,
Catherine-.-! beg your pardon.-..4fr*. Clifton," he corre-cted
himself', suddenly changing. his involuntarily relenting man-
ner into the old sarcasm and scorn.
"Oh, call me Catherine, please call sine Catherine," she
said, loMug half her reserve.
"Why? Do you dislike the other. name i".
"No-~4 like it. I am proud of it.-~=not because it is a
high, haiigh)'ty name, but because it is your.si. When other'
people call me 'Mrs. Clifton,' :zny heart springs with pride
and joy, but when you call me so-"
"Ah, now, do not let us' grow sentimental, madam! I
prefer to call you Mrs. Clifton because I think that the fan-
cied dignity for whicl~ you have toiled and plotted so long,
and patiently, and successfully, should be constantly brought
"to your, mind."
With a deprecating, imploring gos~ure, and a brow crim-
soned untit the purple veins started out) Catherine, pierced
by this keen sarcasm, sa~ik into 'a chair..
'Unpityingly, he added.-
*" And .now,'Mrs6 Clifton, I 'really must entreat you to

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

169

excuse me. 1 expect Turnbull here, every instant, to have
a talk about the stock."
Catherine arose, trembling, and 'left the room;. one ago-
nized complaint bursting from her tortured bosom-~-
"Oh, IL would to Heaven this were over-some way!"
He looked after her, with a countenance convulsed with
sorrow, groaning-
"sind so would I! And so would I to God that this
were over-somehow! Oh !" he thought, rising again, and
pacing the floor-" there is nothing in life so humiliating to
an honorable-minded man, as to love and live with a perfl-~
dious woman-to be daily tempted by his own heart and her
blandish~nent, to become her dupe and his own scorn! To
be hourly on ~he brink of clasping just so much proved
treachery as her form conceals, to a half loving, half loath-
ing bosom! , Serpents! Yes, I dreamed of a serpent, last
night :-methouglit I was in the forests of Brazil, and the
fatal cobra-di-capello had coiled itself around my neck, and
raised its horrid head to mine, and I went to snatch the*
deadly reptile' away, and ,found it to be only* Catherine's
gentle arms and noble face. Deyils! Never~ did a demon
'hide itself under a more deceptive form and face~!-with that
saint-like bleiiding of nobility and meekness in her ~counte-
nance. Every time she' talks with 'me, she brings.me to the
very brink of abjuring my sincere convictions. IL must' get
away from this place, or my mind will become unsettled, de-
ranged. I nmust hasten my 'departure, and in the. meantime,
she shall not talk with' me again.. She shall not cross the
threshold of this room again, 'or if' she does, she shall meet
with such a reception that she shall speedily retire."' And
so, torn with passion, he walked .and raved, while Catherine
sought her room, and threw herself. upon the bed, .gvng
way to a burst of tears and sobs, and crying, in wild~rebel-
lion-
"God! Oh, God! 'Infinite in power and love-do You
se6 me? Do You see me, and withhold Your iielp![ Oh,
God! God !" ]~ut ' soon upon her' fevered' spirit fell the.
word of the Lord like dew-" All things w6rk together for
good, to 'them that love the Lord." And full of penitence
for her imyatience~ she knelt, and humbled herself "under
the mightyhand of God." 'And then, comforted with love
and hope, strengthened with faith and courage, she arose,
and went about her work.
14~

4'
44
H
'1

'I'
i
J1~


I~O            THE CURSE O~ CLIFTON.                                   THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.         171

* Meeting Henny soon after, she told her to be consoled, for
that she thought Jack would be let off,
in the afternoon she received a pencilled note from Major
Clifton,"announcing that lie should leave howe three days
sooner than he had anticipated, namely, on the third day
from that date~, Leaning. against the, projecting chimney..
piece, she held the note, stupidly gazing at it.' J3ut two
days were left 'before he should depart then-.she thought.......
and he was ~going, really going upon a long and perilous miii'
4ary, service, tind pal'ting with her in deep, unmitigated anger,
under the seemingly ineffaceable impression of her utter un-
worthiness-believing her to be guilty of-.-what? ay! what ~
for up to this moment she had not the slighest idea of his
i'eason for condemning her. And now she blamed herself
for cowardice, in having hesitated to entreat him ito inform
her of what fault ~o~' crime she was suspected, and to give
her the opportunity of exculpating herself. And she re-
proached herself 'for that failing of 'the heart, and falling of
the eyes, and faltering of the voice~ that wade her so power-
less, and placed her at such a disadvantage in his presence.
"Oh, yes, indeed;" she said, "I know my manner is enough
to eonVict n~e; I do not wonder at nor blame him for think-
ing~ ill of me, so long as my eyes sink beneath his look.
J~ut how, can I help it. It must be so while he frowns or
sneers. One encouraging word or glance from him, and I
could look up and speak." And next she remembered how
much he 'must Buffer in~ continuing to think her unworthy,
and in departing under that impressio~i-~.-and at this thought,
all that was 'most generous and benevolent, in her nature
aroee to inspire her with ~urage, and she resolved to go to
him, and, though heart 'and frame should tremble to meet
that dread look of stern sorrow Qi" piercing.scorn.......to perse-
verb in imploring him to tell her with what crime she stood
charged.
* J~ut though she 'had determined 'upon this act, it was
eztreniely difficult to perform it. All the afternoon, and
evening he came and went in suoh hurry, and seemed so
entrenched behind his own private thoughts tind purposes,
that she feared to break: in' upon his reserve. Once indeed,
for the purpose of speaking to him upon the subject, she
entered his study, and stood by the table; but he turned
ground, 4rew himself upsat back in his chair, an&amp; looked
upon her with such sarcastic arrogance, that, abashed and

I

12

'confounded, without opening her lips she turned and left the
'room.
And so the aftei'noon and evening passed, and the next
day, the last of his stayarrived. All day Catherine sought
an opportunity of speaking with 'him alone. In vain! 'He
was resolved to afford her none. He sedukrnsly avoided her.
As a last resort she wrote a note, requesting an interview,
and sent it to 'him. She received an ~nswer stating that his
time for the day was all pre-engaged. And so this last day
also passed. That night she completed her part in the pre-
parations for his departure, and retired late to a sleepless
bed. She heard him come in very late, and enter his room,
which joined her own.
At early dawn she arose and koked at the time-piece on
her chamber mantle-shelf. It was but' five o'clock. lie
was not 'to leave till ten. There were five precious ~bours
left yet. And oh!' how inestimably 'precious, if in them she
~could effect a reconciliation with her. husband. They were
like the last hours of a dying one, with salvation, staked upon
'them. She felt that' the crisis had come, that she must not
falter now. She knelt and prayed for strength and courage,
as we only pray a few times in life-with that impassioned
'earnestnesS of supplication that ever~ brings an angel down
"strengthening" us. Then, encouraged, she arose, completed
her simple toilet, and went down stairs to her morning duties.
The breakfast hour was seven. And oh, she watched the
'clock as she, unjustly condemned to death, might watch in
the last fleeting hours preceding execution-hoping, still
hoping for some saving revelation. A little while after seven
he came down stairs, entered the breakfast-room, and bowing
with his usual cold greeting of-
"'Good-morning, madam," sat doWn.
She rang for the coffee, and then took her place at the
head of the tahle~.
He went through with the morning meal, with his cus-
'tomary, reflective leisure. And' Catherine watched the hand
of the clock, as it traveled on towayds 'eight. She was sick
with apprehension. 'She could not speak to him there, for
the servants were in attendance. At last he 'arose, left the
table, and went out to give some final directions ~concerning
his baggage, and the hor~s anA servants he was totake with
'him. And then' he went up stairs and entered his study. It
was just eight o'clock, and ~he had two invaluable hours left

171


[72             TILE CURSE 'OF CLIFTON.
yet. As if life, and death hung upon their issue, she resolved,
come what might, to use them in a final effort for a recon-
;ciliation. Pale and trembling in every limb,' she left the
table, and went up stairs, slowly, holding by the balustrades
from weakness. When she reached the study-door she found
it ajar, and through it, she saw him sitting at his writing-
table-not busy, as'she had feared and expected to find him,
but doing~ absolutely nothing-with his elbows resting on the
table, and his faceburied in the palms of his hands-.-in the
attitude and expression of the deepest sorrow and despair.
That one glunpse. of his suffering face, sufficed 'to drive every
fear but that of anxion~ affection from her heart-.." It is be-
cause he thinks me unworthy. I must not 'leave him to think
so longer. ,Be strong, coward heart," she said, to herself,
and then she went in and stood beside his chair, resting her
hand, for support, upon the table, trembling with nervous
weakness, and blushing with the bashfulness she could not
but, feel in making this advance, anj altogether, in his sus-
picious eyes, looking very much like a conscious culprit. She
stood, unable to utter one word, until he lifted up his head,
and seeing her, demanded coldly-.-
"'What is your, pleasure, Mrs. Clifton ?"
She attempted to speak, but a mute sob was all that
ensued.
With a piercing sarcasm, ho asked-
"Can I serve you in any manner this morning, madam ?"
With a gesture of deprecation and entreaty, she an-
swered-.
"Yes! *yes! I wish to be put upon my trial! Archer!-
Major Clifton! you withdrew your favor from ~&amp;so suddenly!
You never told me why! Oh! tell we, before you go, how
I have been so wretched as to ,lose your esteem-and put
me upon my defence."
He frowned, darkly, as with both pain and
plied-.                        '        anger, and re~.
"I have. had occasion twice' before to remind you, Mrs.
Clifton, that this is a prohibited subject' of conversation be-
'tween us."
She clasped her hands; in, the earnestness of supplication,
'exclaiming-.-
"Why? Oh! 'why V You wer&amp; alwaysjust.. You never
judged your poorest sjaye, ',mhearc~ Oh! what have I done,
or omitted to do? Tell me! Make the charge, nud see

'I~HE CURSE OF CLIFTON.         173

how I can an~wer~ it'! Archer !-I' mean MajOr Clifton--
'forgive it-but for all, it springs so naturally from heart to
lip, to call you Archer-because---.becausl3there is no' feeling
of estrangement in my heart, nor can I make it there! Major
'Clifton, then !'.-oonsider !.-.-4'he greatest criminals have the
right 'of ~ trial, with the crime of which they are suspected,
distinctly and openly charged upon' them-with the evidence
'on both sides taken, and their defence heard, before they are
condemned. Ii kirow that you would not be otherwise
than just. Will you 'condemn me untried, unjudged, un.i~
heard ?"
"It is quite sufficient to me, madam," he answered;
haughtily, "that the, proofs of your turpitude are conclusive
to my oWn mjnd."
"I know it," she said, meekly, "I know it.-yet, pause-
what would you think of th&amp; justice oe a' judge, who should
say to one suspected of crime-' Your guilt is so clear, that
it is useless to charge you with it, or to hear the testimony,
or to listen to what you might have to say in your defence,'
and so proceed to condemn him? Such things were never,
surely, done, in the darkest ages, or under the most despotic
rulers. And is that guilt, of which I am suspected, of so,
heinous a character as to preclude me from the~ privilege ex.-
'tended even to criminals-the privilege of a trial ?" She
paused-but he continued to regard her with a stern, set face,
without replying. Drooping over the table, and leaning
heavily upou it, she spoke again, and her voice fell in low,
but clear, ~nelodious tones, as she said-" God and man,'
and I, myself, have made you my judge, and the arbiter of
my destiny here. It is an awful power. You have made me
feel it to be such. It is an awful power, because it is a sub..
tile, invisible power-higher, and deeper, and broader than
any law. I have no appeal from it-noi&amp; Nor-please to
understand me-do I wish for any-~for if 'all the world were
to clear n~e, I should still be condemned, if you condemned
~me~ And oh! listen, 'and belieVe me-believe~ me; for it is
from my deep heart tkat I speak'this truth-if you had the
power and the will to doom me to death-my instincts would
teach me rather to receive death at your hands, than to save
my life by appealing from your judgment to another tribunal.
I am loyal. I am faithful! ~od knoweth that I am. Let
me prove it. Put me upon my defence. Do not-oh, d~
not persist 'in condemning me, unheard."


174            ~IIFVCURSE oji' CLIFTON.                               THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           175

"Catherine," he answered, in a softened yoice..-~~C you are
not condemned; if you were~you would not be standing here
at my side."
"~Vhat do you mean? good Heaven !"
"Tins," he replied with a sudden~ change of manner, as
though angry with himself for his transient relenting. "This!
'that oftentimes it happens that the only mercy we can show
the guilty, is not to bring them to trial! To openly recog-
nize guilt, i~. to be obliged to punish it. If we ~listinitly
'accuse', weare bound to prove, and if we prove, to condemn
and sentence."
"And is iii~y ease such a one ?"
"Your case is such a one."
"Yet still I beg to be tried! For if not to try them is
often the only way to save the~ guilty, to~' tTy them is
oftener the only way' to cleai~ the innocent. Accuse me-~.-.
hear my defence, and be yourself my* judge. I ask no
other."
"Of what avail were)t to rehearse your acts' of falsehood
and treachery. You know them this 'moment even better
than I' do."
~' Falsehood and treachery-just Heaven!"
* "Yes, madam, t~iose' were the words [ used."
"You are mistaken in attributing such wickedness to me;
but tell me 'the grounds of your suspicions; doubtless I can
explain them, and clear myself."
He laughed ~ scornful, sardonic' lau~h, and replied, "Oh,
doubtless a woman.of your' diplomatic genius is fertile in ex-
planations. Whether you could by possibility clear yQurself,
'is another question; for I speak-not of suspicions but of
'positive knowledge."
His strong conviction of her turpitude infected' her with
despair at last. She said, very mournfully-
"Itknow that it has sometimes happened that the innocent
have been tried and convicted-overwhelni~d by' a mass of
circumstantial evidenoe~-~and that may' be my case; never-
theless, even they have had the poor satisfaction of knowing
for what they suffered. Tell me, I 'beseech you. Twill still
'hope that I can acquit 'myself. Not for my own sake,
*Ai~cher, dear Archer~-~but for yours; ~it must be so agonizing
to be ~forced to think ill of~ one we have loved as you once
loved me. I suffer very much in' the loss of your esteem;
but were it possible for our cases to be ~reversed-were I

forced 'to think evil of you, I do not know, indeed I do not
know how I could go on with daily life at all !'~
"I think you had better cease discoursing and retire;
your diplomatic talent is not 'in high action this morning; you
permit your words to betray you."
"To betray me !"
"Yes, madam,; for if you felt yoi~irseJf to be innocent,
would you not necessarily think very ill of me for treating
you as a guilty woman ~"
"No! no! I know that to have condemned me so
promptly, so unequivocally, 'you must have, what you think,
proof positive against me. 'Rut produce it! 'I am innocent;
indeed I am, Archer. I believe in Heaven's justice. I be-
lieve that if I call on the Lord, He will sooner or later; in I~[is
own good time, enable me to prove it."
"I will, produce 'the ~estimony," ~he said, going to an
escritoir, opening it and ~king from' it a note in a gray en-
velope. Returning to his seat, he laid it before her, asking
"Is this your handwriting ?"
Catherine glanced at it-it was the envelope she had
directed to Mrs.' Georgia Clifton, and she' immediately
answered-.
"Yes, certainly it is."
"Ah it is; when was it written ?"
"The last day of your dear mother's life. Ah! now I re.~
member, it was from that day you' took your favor from me."
"Yes, madam," he said, withdrawing the fatal ~note from
the envelope, and laying it before her, adding, "Do you ac-
knowledge this as' your writing' also?" ' ' -
Catherine looked at the note without heeding 'the words,
and raising her' innocent eyes with wonder to his face, ant.
swered, without an instant's hesita~tion~-.
"Yes, assuredly, that is mine !"
Her perfect unconsciousness should have convinced him of
her inn6cenoe-would have done 'so perhaps, but' that, pre-
judiced against her, he took her manner to be super-refined
art; and determined toforce her to the point, he said-
"Would you ~wOar it ?"
Catherine took 'np the letter and examined it.
"Ay! read it, read. it."
Catherine read the note, turned deadly pale, fell 'back in
her chair, and let' the paper drop from her hands-over-
whelmed by the enormous wickedness of the forgery. Scarcely


176            THE CURSE 01? CLIPT0~.                                  TILE CURSE 01? CLWTON.         177

restraining a bitter curse, he picked up the fatal note, pushed.
the door open with his foot, crossed the hall, and entered his
bed-chamber, 'banging the door a~er him.
One stunned moment she sat t~ius, then started to her feet,
bewildered, distracted, and with ~ wild -impulse, fled across
the hall and into his chamber, and sank at his feet speech-
less, mute, but catching his hand, and clinging to it. When
she ~struggled and recovered her voice, she exclaimed,
simply-
"I' did~not write that letter, Archer. I did not write that
letter."
He twisted his hand rudely out of her grasp, and turned
away, yvithout reply.
She clasped her hands earnestly, exclaiming again.-.
".1 did not write that letter! It is impossible I ever
should have conceived, much less ye written such. a letter!
I do. not know who wrote it. I "!iover laid my eyes on it
before!"
An incredulous, insulting smile, wa~ his reply.
"Oh! what shall I say to convince you? Indeed, indeed
I did not do it!"
"Come, perjure yourself! Swear it."
She was silent.
"I ask you to swear it."
She was still silent.
"Come, now-.will you declare upon oath that you did not
write that letter ?"
"God sees me! I did not!"
"That's no oath ! Here's the New Testament, swear upon
the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God that you didn't write
it~ and, perhaps, I will believe you, for well I know that many
unprincipled people have a sort of fearful respect for an oath,
which in them is not piety,'but superstition. I think you just
such a one! Come, now, swear that you did not write it !"
He ' paused' for an. answer, but she looked at him in great
trouble.' "Will you do it?"
"'Major Clifton, I cannot !"
"Not swear that you did not write it ?"
"No, sir."
"Then that only confirms and seals the truth of what I
knew before, that, of course, you did write it."
She wrung her hands in deep distress, and said-
"I cannot swear, Archer. I mean I dare not swear,

Archer, even to prove my innocence, and get back your
love.''
"And why, pray ~" lie asked, with a mocking smile.
"Oh, Archer! my Lord and yours has commanded us to
Swear not at all.' I dare not break that command."
"Tush, girl, you are clumsy. Do you' presume to think
I can be duped by that afl'ectation.of super-righteousness ?"
"Oh, Heaven! Oh, Heaven! what shall I do 'P' said Ca-
therine, in despair.
"Swear, and I will believe, you," he answered, mockingly.
"Oh! why will not my simple word do? Oh! do you
think I would tell a falsehood even to save my life ?"
"Do I? Doea not an 'astute diplomatist, like you, know
that I know a woman who can be false,, treacherous, hypo-
critical ;-who, so young, can plot so well, and succeed so
entirely ;-can also tell a falsehood to conceal her baseness ?"
he answered, looking down upon her in insufferable scorn.
Then her whole manner changed. She arose to her feet
with a certain calm and gentle dignity, and pushing back the
veiling tresses from her noble brow, answered nobly-..
"Yes, it is true! If I could have conceived such trea.
chery, and written ~iich~a letter as that, I could 'also have
lied to conceal it! There is only one* on earth that knows
my innocence, the writer of that letter. But one. in Heaven
knows it, and He will make it manifest. I believe in mira-
cles, because I heli~ve in* the infinite' power and goodness of
God, and in the everlasting promises of the Bible."
"Well done, Maria Teresa! r&amp;dly that is the best of all!
In~ked, your talents are quite lost upon such unworthy game
as me and my poor estate-good-bye !" , And laughing bit-
terly, he left the room, and hurried~down stairs. .A few
minutes after she heard the clock strike ten-then she arose
and .went .to the window to look out. . lije stood upon' the
lawn, in riding geai', near a group ionsistjng of his' servant
Dandy, and three saddle-horses. She saw him vault into his
saddle, and ride away, attended by' Dandy, mounted on one
horse and leading another. As he 'passed the outer gate,
one look of love, sorrow, and despair, he turned towards her
window, and then vanished into the forest road.
She did not see that look-she could not have seen it at
that distance; she saw that he was gone, and turning from
the window, she sank down upon the carpet in the collapse
of deepest sorrow.
VoL. IJ.-45

/

a

)


178            THE CURSfl OF CLIFTON.                                 THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.         179

Gone! He was gone! His presence ~that had made all
suffering tolerable was withdrawn, and the place was empty~
life itself was. empty.
He wa~ gone-gone-not lovingly, after a lingering, ten-
der leave-taking-that would have been sorrowful enough;
but -it Would have been cheered by the promise of frequent
interchange of letters, and the anticipation of re-union; how
much more sorrowful this utter separation!
Gone! gQne! not in anger- that would have been bitter
indeed; but it would have been sweetened by hope that au-
ger would subside, that reflection would come, and reconcilia-
tion ensue; but how much bitterer this bopele~s disunion.
Gone in scorn! Gone in loathing! Gone to return no
more but as a stranger! Oh, insupporta1~le grief! Oh, hope-
less anguish! Oh, despair!
A few short weeks ago the heaven &amp;f her life had been so
serene, so divinely serene, and her soul had reflected back
the beautiful" great calm," as a still lake the clear sky.
Now all was changed! Now all was clouds and storm and
darkness! A -howling wilderness around! A howling tern-
pest overhead! An~l her soul answered. bach the tempestuous
discord of life, a~ the storm-tossed ocean, the storm-lowered
sky! All was confusion, distraction, chaos!
Wild impulses-suggestions of the fiend-darted meteor..
like athwart her mind :-to fly-to go away and leave a
place, where she had been brought a bride, full of love and
hope and trust, and where every feeling of womanly pride
and delicacy had been ruthlessly, insultingly trampled in the
dust! /
But simultaneously with this suggestion, arose the instinct
of the wife, and the inspiration of the Christian, teaching her
that scorned and outraged as she had ~boen, her only p~ost of
duty as of hope, was her husband's home. Yes, aiiiid all the
gloom and terror, she caught this one glimpse of Heaven.
Amid all .the clash and clang of passion and de,~pair, she
heard this voice of God.

CHAPTER XXXIV.
CATHERINE'S REGENCY.
nut a trouble weio~hed upon her,
And perpexed ?~er night and morn,
With the burden of a station
Unto which she was not born.-TENNYsoN.
SLOWLY, very slowly Catherine recovered from the shock
of that bitter parting. And then she felt so lonely-so deso-
late; no mother-no sister-'---no bosom friend, to give her
one comforting look of sympathy, or one sustaining word of
affection. And. she mourned afresh the loss of that dear,
sympathizing, toaternal friend, always so ready- in her loving
wisdom, always so ready in any trial or affii~tion to give
counsel and 4~o1nfoi't. And, oh! Catherine needed these-p--
for, like the black, scudding fragments of clouds left by the
tempest, dark, despairing-thoughts drifted t~rougli her-mind.
Yes, she had need, and profoundly felt that need, of counsel
and comfort in this bewildering sorrow; but of whom could
she seek it ~ Of none-of none must she seek it. The true
wife's instinct taught her that. For even when the retrospec-
tive image of his dead~ mother, her ow~ beloved bosom friend,
recurred in the shape of a ouce possible ~niediator between
herself and husband, her mind intuitiveLy~ recoiled from the
idea, and she knew that were that dear mother - now living,
not even of her could she make a confidant-that the reli-
gious unity, the integral sanctity, the cherished exclusiveness
of marriage would be. invaded and broken, and the sweet
~harm lost by the introduction of a third party-.--beloved~even
as that dear, mutual -mother-into its sacred counsels. No,
unhappy and bewildered as -she wits, she felt that by all her
hopes of &amp; future happy union, th~s wretched division must
be kept to herself-upon herself solely recoil the burden and
the pain-she "must tread the wine- press alone." And

-vi

A

179

178


TII~CURSE OF CLIFTON                                    THI~ CURSE 0? CLIFTON.         181

even when she prayed for Divine inspiration to guide her, the
response came from the depths of her spirit, "The Word of
God is within you."
And how empty the house ~eemed because one was away-
how gloomy-how funereal-even the light footstep of a
chamber-maid in the distance sounded hollowly,-sending a
dreary echo through. the many passages of the great, empty
house-empty, for ~th&amp;t he was gone.
It seemed not worth while to go on with daily life at all-.
to keep up the fire on the household hearth, or to light the
evening lamp, or to order meals for herself alone.
But if Catherine were for once tempted ir~ her sorrow to
forget her duties,-her duties were not the least disposed to
leave her long in peace-no, not for an hour.
Catherine was roused from' her fit of deep thought by the
entrance of a field woman, who, with the usual curtsey, and
the customary greeting of-" Sarvunt, ma'am," stood before
raised her~ heavy eyelids abstractedly.
'~ Sarvunt, ma'am," said the woman, again ourtseying,
"Aunt Field Mary is well over 'it, ma'am. It's a boy"chile,
zna'axn; a likelyy little boy~chile as ever you. see, .~ma'am.
'Au' Aunt Field Mary told me to tell you, ma'am, how, thank
~th~ Lord, an' she's fTotclvthrbugh s&amp;fe, an? bow she wouldn't
lef dein sturve you las' night, ca~ze yon wur so tired, an'~ caze
it:wum the lassest uight Marse Archer h~d to stay home. An'
Aunt Field Mary say, would you please to come down: der to
her quarter an' see her dis morning , and how she want~ sOi~e
green tea,. an' icaf sugar, au'-an'---.-wme, if you please,
ma'am. ~'                              -
"What--what did you say i". asked Catherine, passing
her hand. over her forehead, to dispel the concentration of
sorrowful .th~iught.
'~ Aunt~'ield Mary, ina'am, it's a boy-chile, xna'am, a likely
little boy-chile as ever you see, mt~?am, an' she's fotch well
thi~ough ef it, thank Marster, ma'am, an~ she say, how will
you ~come an' see her, au~ send her some: liquor, an' things.
IAkewjse, Uncle Jubilee, its 'daddy, n~'am, he say, can't he
have a holyday to-day, ma'am,, an' stay home out'n de field,
seem' how it's 'his firstest son an' bier oiit'n seven darters."
Passing her hand across her forehead slowly, Catherine
dispersed the la~t lingering fragments of her bitter reverie,
and stood upto her simple, practical, household duties. And

then her action was clet~r and decided. She took up her
little basket of keys, bade the woman follow her, and went
lown stairs and into the pantry, where she ~lled a hamper
with tea and sugar, crackers, jelly, and other little matters,
and gave it to her attendant, saying-
"Take these to Field Mary, and say that I will be down
to see her presently."
"Yes, ma'am sure 'nough. But 'bout d&amp; liquor, honey?
likewise Uncle eiubilee's holiday, seem' how it's his firstest
son an' hier yut'n seven darters ?"
"Tell Mary that I cannot send her wine, it is not good
for her now; but tell her to mention any other want, and if
it be a proper one, it shall be supplied. Tell Jubilee to re-
turn to the field-..his labor cannot possibly be spared from it
to-day. * And stay-what is your name
"Nelly, ma'am. 'Deed it is, honey. That's my name,
Nelly."
"I think I never saw you up at the house before, Nelly ~
"No, ma'am, likely not, chile, indeed. I lives quite dis-
tant off, down der on Cedar Creek, unnerneaf ~f Bushy lUll
der on de outskeerts o' de plantashum."
"Well, Nelly, who is tending Field Mary I"
"[is, ma'am. Ilardbargain Henny, she long o' her now~
But I tends her. I tends all do wimmin hands when dey's
sick, 'deed I does, chile. But poor creeturs, dey alluz wants
der miste'ss, all uz. I never knew dem to fail o' fretting
artei~ her, dey don't seem to feel kinder safe widout her,
dough I alluz tells do poor ignorant' creeturs, der mistress
can't do nuffin 'tall--dere in do ban's o' do Lord-not in do
mist'ss'~. An' dar Fiel' Mary, 'ceitful thing, sending' you
word how she didn't want you sturved,~arter keeping' on arter
us all night to send for you; but I telled her good I Wan't
agoin' to have the young madam wurrittel long o' her 'fernal
nonsense, bein' as it was do lassest night Marster had to stay
at home."
"Yes, there, go now," said Catherine, waving her hand
wearily.
"Nyther wan't it any sort o' us~, case I, myself, dough I
should'n be do fuss to bray affen it, am. as known' a 'oman
as if I wur book edified, bein' as I has had thirty years
'speriments, ten years practysin' on ole Marse Roger 4ower
plantashum, down in ole Si' Mary's, 'fore I came here, nuss
long o' Miss (iar'line Gower, wid her fuss baby, which was


182             ~PHE'CURSE OF CLIFTON.

our MissCar'line Clif'n. Art' dat war twenty odd year ago,
an~ ]i'se had. twenty years 'speriments here. Lord, mistress,
ma'am,' whenever you quiress any vice and distancee, you
ain't no passionn to call in any dean derned, infunnelly,
roguing doctors as makes you worse sick, purpose o' getting'
more credit and money for makin' you well."
"There-there-there-there, Nelly, return to your pa-
tient."
"Yes,;misi~'ess, Um gwine ~iow, ma'am, only I wanted to
~ tell you while I thought of it, how when eber you 'quire of
de aid an' comfort, you no call to send offen do plantashuni,
case__"
* "Nelly, there is one thing that I must say to you now,
and which I wish you to remember. It is that when I give
a direction' I intend it to be followed."
The old woman looked mortified, and. took up the hamper,
settled it upon her head, and went out. It pained Cathe-
rine~s~ gentle heart to speak so peremptorily. Jut this was
one among the abuses she felt it to be her imperative duty to
reform, the habits of idleness and listlessness, and the pro.
density to stand and' gossip among the domestics. Trifling
as this little incident was, it served to arouse Catherine and
place her on her feet, aild she did not utterly sink again.
:'The evening fire wa~ kindled on the household hearth, and
the evening, lamp lighted, though there was but one lonely
woman to feel their cheering influence.
The next day was theSabbath, and Catherine as usual
attended church. She felt deeply the need of religious'con-
solation., Her spirit hungered, thirsted, failed and fainted
for the ~eeding~ refreshing, strengthening mipistrations of 'the
gospel. ~Uhe old, sad, unanswered problem' of unmerited
suffering~ perpl~zed her. She felt herself sinking into that
sad and nearly hopeless state of mind, induced by great and
singular trials' to' be borne perforce alone and in secret-
when, wanting human sympathy and failing of. divine com-
foa4, the soul loses, sight of the Merciful Father in the Om-
nipotent Creator, or in other words, of especial Proyidence
in general Providence, and falls sadly, despairingly back
upon its helpless self, and says that the Supreme Ruler of
the Universe, the Governor of countless millions of suns and
systems, never stoops to care for a poor, lost atom like itself.
She r~eede&amp;t6 hear the gospel message of love and hope
again~ ~~;B~it~when' shd entered her pew, and ~raised her eyes

I

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.               183
to the 'pulpit, she was disappointed in missing from his place
the mild and' venerable face and form of the parish clergy-
man, whose teachings every Sabbath morning sent her home
with renewed love, and sustained her through the week,~ and
she was pained to see in his stead a young wan, a inere
youth in seeming, some student newly ordained, she sup-
posed, and she sank back in her seat, saddened with the
thought that she would not get the greatly needed spiritual
help from him; for what ~uld a student in his youth kilow
of life's dread trials ~ of the heart's mournful experiences,
or the spirit's deep needs ~ She felt sure he could not help
her, and she sank back; resigning herself with a deep sigh.
The opening hymn was given out-
God moves in a mysterious way
His wonders to perform,
He plants His footsteps on the sea,
And rides upon the storm.
Ye rearf'uI souls, fresh Courage take,
The cloud ye so much dread.
Is big with mercy, and shall break
In blessings oa yottr head.
The' first words of this hymn fell upon Catherine's sni'..
praised ear, filling her soul with awe-.f'or it seemed a direct
answer to her thought. And all that hymn, evei~y stanza,
every line, was filled with meaning for her, and powerful in
its effect upon her mind, in its peculiar state of experience.
She listened in penitent, grateful, reverent silence, folding
her hands meekly, and saying within her heart-.
"Father, forgive my doubts and fears! 'I will believe it!
Yes, I will believe that even this heavy cloud is laden with
mercy, and will shower blessings! I~~wil1 believe that even
thjs bitter trial--this bitter, bitter separation and disunion,
is in some way necessary to our morah~gr6wth and future
welfare, and that J shall see it! I do believe it, for I have
had blessed answers before to doubts. 'And we know that
all things work together for good to them that love the
Lord.' 'I do believe it."
God is His own interpreter,
~And He will make it plain,
were the solemn last words of the, Divine Song that awed her
into stillnes~. This hymn was suns, Catherine's beautiful
voice joining the choir. And when it was ended, followed


184            TIlE CURSE oP 0LIPT0~.

the prayer, so singularly coincident, that every' word gave
voice to the deep silent cry in her own suffering heart.
And then the young minister arose to give out the text:
Matthew x. 29. "Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing?
And~ one of them shall not fall on the ground without your
Father." And here followe~l the sermon.' The manner of
the young preacher was~ modest, natural, calm and sweet, as
befitted the gentle words of the text, and the consoling sub..
ject of 'the sermo~i-FArrn ~IN' PUovxDENcE~-.the childlike
faith that comes through the heart, and not through the
head. Catherine ha4 thought he could not help her. Never
had she been more in. error ~in her life. That pale young
preacher had a divine message for her-.-for ker; an answer
to her unsolvable problem; a message, providentially, the
most direct, pointed, strong, startling that ever fell from
lips touched with fire, revivifying the soul of the receiver ;' a
ne~sage that satisfied every doubt, and calmed every fear,
and replied to every question as perfectly, as satisfyingly, as
if Heaven had spoken; a message that aroused faith, revived
hope, rekindled love, till all the soul glowed with divine fire.
She was wrapped, entranced, carried away by the eloquence,
power and pathos of this divinely-inspired discourse.. She
never ~jaw the young preacher before ~or after, b~mt line had
dropped a celestial treasure deep into where she kept it
safe-a talisman through all the trial of life.
She left the church loving, hopefuJ, strong in faith, strong
to act and endure, patient to wait. So elevated and inspired
was her soul, that it illumined her whole countenance~ And
when th~ county ladies crowded around her at the church
door to condole with her on the departure of Major Clifton,
and to press hospitalities upon her, and to urge her not to
mope in widowhood at home, their benevolent purposes were
forgotten in their surprise, and the first words were-
"Why, how brightly you look this morning, Mrs. Clif~
ton!"
Catherine promised many visit~, and e~ten~ed many inyi-
tations, ~nd finally was glad to escape and enter her carriage,
to dwell in lonely, loving reverence upon the words she had
heard. And she reached home. And the Word departed
not from her, neither that day, nor the next~ nor through life.
And with the perfect faith in God, perfect trust in her future
came. And ag~dn she whispered to herself the' charming

TIlE CURSE 01' OLIFT0N~            18~
"I will w~dt patiently-I will work faithfully. The post
of. duty, as of hope;' is my husband's house and home. He
trusts me, at least, even now, with the' charge of this great
plantation. Construe it as he may, it is a mark of great'
confidence.' I will be true to the trust."
And then, indeed, as she whispered these words to' her
heart, hope, sweet hope, inspired her more and more, and
strengthened her 'more and more, and she felt that he still
loved her-she felt it by that 'sure instinct that teaches a
woman when she' is beloved, though no'word, look, or 'ges-
ture reveals it to her. And she acted upon 'this feeling,
although almost unconscious of its 'existence as 'a motive.
And she knew that she would be useful to 'him~ substantially
useful to him where she wags--for wth her it was not enough
to be devoted, s~u1 and body,~o his interests,-..no, "wishing
well" must have a'~ body in' it,"~ in order "to be' felt." She
communed ~ith her heart, asking-..-
"What, besides the service of God, do' I really live for in.
this world? For his happiness. Yes, 'my profound heart,
that is it! For his good, his interests, his welfare~ I' 'have
not been an obstacle t6 his 'happiness. 'I have not 'been a
stumbling block in the ,~ay of' his' marrying anoLher~' No !
for I fe~l that he loves'me: at he never loved ~n~6ther; and I
love ~hini as he ~vat never .loved by another'; 'and~has' any
other- the instinct, the inspiration, the strength and patience'
to bear with him, that God has placed in my' beart? I will
believe and 'trust in the Lord and His inspirations. And
heart, 'and brain, and hands,-all that 17 am, and all that I
have, will I devqteto hisservice. And until he restores me,
that alone '~hali~nake my occupation and my happiness. "
The next morning being Monday, she arose with the inten-~
tion of taking seriously in ha~nd the 'business of' the estate.
This was now the first of December, and.~:.there was a great
deal 'to' be done before the close of the year; in financial, as
well as in domestic 'and agricultural matters. The overseer
and 'tli~ "hfred farhdaborers 'had all been paid in advance, up
to' the' first 'of January.. And Major Clifton had 'left Cathe-
rine twelVe 'hundred dQllars in cash, for her own etirrent ex-'
ponses. ~All' this' money 'she had aV once determined to
devote to another purp9sc-nam~ly-----to lifting sOme of those
notes which wduld fall due on the first of the year. She de~
termined, als9,. iii, ~r4er to help 'to clear off the 'incubus of~
debt for the coming year, to try to find 'a tenant for Hardbar-


180            ~HE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                  THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          187

gain, and to devote the rent to the takingup of the remaining
notes. She went into a patient and thorough examination
of the overseer's accounts, and discovered, with much pain,
That Jie bad embezzled the funds trusted to him for the pay-
)nent of the hired hands; and a stricter review of his con-
duct, rcsu1~d in the detection of other malpractices, that
decide a erine to give him warning. A very little ob~
servationi convinced her, also, that the "baker's dozen of
hired laborers, all his own kin folks," were an unnecessary
and expensive set of idle parasites, of whom she determined
to rid the plantation at the end of the year. She finally
concluded still further to lower the scale of expenditures,
by parting with her housekeeper. - She reconciled herself to
this last step, when she heard of a place in the neighborhood
to which Mrs. Mercer might go. Yet Catherine did not
wisb to make these important changes without again consult-
ing Major Clifton. And, perhaps-let the whole truth be
told-perhaps poor Kate was desirous to hear from him, and
glad of a fair business excuse to write. And she wrote the
following note. She had some trouble with it, It was the
first (except the lines at the funeral,) she had ever written
him, and, under all the circumstances, she hesitated how to
begin, or how ~o end it. She disliked to address him as a
nt~re acquaintance, and she shrunk from any warmer manner
of greeting. Finally, she wrote, as she would have written
to a friend-.-thus~.--
"WHITE CLIFFS, December 8th, 1812.
"DEAR MAJOR CLIFTON
"After a very careful investigation of the affairs of the
plantation, and much patient. thought concerning them,
I have concluded-if I have your approbation and authority
for doing so~-4hat the establishment can be cut down
so as to reduce the annual expenditure to about one-half
its present amount-also, that the Hardbargain farm can
be let for a sum, double the annual amount of~. what we
can save at White Cliffs. And, finally, that the aggregate
of these moneys, saved and acquired, will be sufficient, in
two years, to pay off the accumulated debts oppressing the
estate. (Here followed a more detailed account of her ~lans.~
Please write, and let me know if I have your authority for
jrceeeding.         . Yours, faithfully,
"CATHERINE."

I

186

In due time, Catherine received the answer. She seized
it with an eager hand. She opened it with trembling fingers.
She most unreasonably. hoped-poor girl-for some kind,
relenting word-some token of approbation or affection.
Truly, she believed in miracles. This was the precious
epistle-
"HAMPTON, December 16th, 1812.
MADAM
"Your favor of the 8th instant lies before me. I beg
leave to reiterate now what I said at parting-viz: that
I have not the' slightest hesitation in leaving the plantation
to your own exclusive charge and direction-having no doubt
that self-interest ~~ill guide your talent into the surest means
of recruiting the resources of the estate. liet Hardb~rgaim,
by all means, if it pleases you to do. it, remembering that I
have nothing to do with That cunningly acquired little piece
of property of yours. Regarding the dismissal of the house-
keeper, the overseer, and the hired farm-laborers, whom you
consider as supernumeraries, send them. off, by all means, if
you think it proper to do so. I, myself, perhaps, should
have he~dtated, ere I sent them adrift upon the world. But
money-saving is~ I presume, a plebeian instinct.~
"Finally, pray govern in your own way, without ever agaiui
thinking it to be necessary to consult,
"Your servant, CLIFTON .~
"ARCHER


I

188

THE CURSE OP CLIFTON.

CHAPTER XXXV.
CATHERINE'S PROGRESS.
And she grew a noble lady,
And her people loved her much.-TE~wYsoN.
CATHERI~E'~ arrangements for the year were all completed
by the first of J~nuar~; and with less inconvenience to
others, and consequently with less pain 'to herself, than she
had dared to anticipate.
* She heard that Turnbull, the cashiered overseer, had pur-
chased a piece of land' ifl the valley- (doubtless with the
embezzled funds, but of that she did not think)-built upon
it a log cabin, and set :up as a farmer upon his own footing;
and that he had taken his ~tribe of sons and nephews to assist
him. She was' very much' pleased to know that they were
but ~of the way of' swindling others as they. had 'swindled
Clifton, and also that they were equally removed from want
and offeringg.
~#s. Mercer, byher warni recommendation, had found a
very eligible situation~ as housekeeper to an elderly, single
gentleman-a planter in the neighborhood.-and her benevo-
lence was set at rest in regard to the old wo~nan.
Lastly, she had let Hardbargain to excellent tenants-a
young New Englander and his wife-who took it ready
furnished and stocked as it was; and designed to work the
land and keep a school.
The negroes had their usual carnival at Christmas, lasting
till after New Year-during which~ all that had been engaged
in the last twelve months were married, and wedding parties
were given and dances got up, ect., ect.
But on the second of January, Catherine caused them all
to be assembled in her presence, and told them that she
should, on the next Monday and thereafter, set them to work
in earnest; that their overseer was gone-(" Thank Marster
Lord for that," exclaimed several)-but that she herself

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

189;

would be their' overseer for the ensuing year. (" Y6u'll b~
fair, young mistress! We ain't afeard o' you," said th~
same.) She waved her hand for silence and attention, and
tben informed them farther-..that though they should find
her hereafter as heretofore, just and moderate and merciful ~
ready to give ear' to their complaints, and settle their diffi~
culties, and reward their zeal-yet that she should certainly
require a more steady and systematic application to their
duties than they had ever before given. She said, in conclu~
sion, that their health, comfoi't, improvement and happiness,
should be her care; but that even in this also, she should
need their co-operatiou-.--(" You shall hab it, mist'ess, 'deed
you shall, honey ;" from some of the older negroes.) Finally
she dismissed them, telling them that she wished to see them
all together again on Sunday evening at early candle-light,
in the spinning-room, where she desired that they should as~
semble quietly.
On Saturday evening when the women were done spinning,'
Catherine directed that all the wheels should be taken to one
corner of the room, and crowded together, and that the set..
tees and benches from the piazza and lawns, should be brought
in and arranged around the walls; and finally, that ~. little
reading stand and chair should be brought for her own use.
These preparations, occupied but ten minutes, and the room
was fitted up for family worship.
On Sunday evening, at the appointed hour, Catherine ~et
her assembled laborers and servants there. When they~wer~
all seated and perfectly still and attentive, she said to them-
"I desired your presenCe here this Sabbath evening, that I
might make a proposition to you. I have been thinking that
we ought not to finish ever~~ d~y withimt remembering and
returning thanks to our Heavenly Father t'or'His daily bo~in~
ties, protection and merCies to us, and asking a continuance
of the same blessings; and I think we should not dare to lie
down and commit ourselVea to that helpless sleep that so re-
sembles death, withOut confessing to our Lord the sins we
have committed again~tJIhn d~iring the day, imploring His
forgiveness' of theni, aDd asking His watchful care over us
~luring the darkness of the night and the defenoelessness of
Ileep. Don't you think so V?
"Yes, yes, mist'ess, we d0, We do ~ answered severed
9f the elder negroes, cleaAiy-while a modest murmur of assent
ran through the assembly. The negroes are strongly inclined
~TOL II.-16

'I
I
e~
I:
'I ~
I


190

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.'

to worship, and ever ready to co-operate in anything of that
sacred character.
Catherine resumed-~-
"We should each do this in private by~ our own bedsides;
but 'we should also do it together as 'a household.-as the
creatures of one God, the children of one Father." She
paused a moment in thought, and then spoke again. "I have
been also reflecting that you ought all to know more of the1
]3ible than you have as yet had any' opportunity of knowing;
And I think that most of you would be pleased to know
more." She paused for an answer.
"Yes,' yes, mistress, we' do," chimed in many eager voices,
old and young.
"I know you do. Well, then, henceforth we will assemble
in this room every evening just before bed time, and as a
household of the Lord, a family of one~ Father, spend' a short
time together in reading and hearing the Holy Scriptures, and
in prayer. In beginning to read the Bible with you, I shall
commence with~ the first 'chapter of the New Testament, and
read a chapter every night, until we regularly read it 'through.
And afterwards, in the same manner, ~we will go through
lihivid's Psalms and the Prophets.
Catherine finished and' sat down, mad.e a sign for silence,
and opened the New~ Testament and commented her reading.
Never had reader a more attentive1 or~ interested audience.
She passed over the long,'hard genealogical table in the first
par~V of the chapter, and began with the Angel's visit to the
Virgin Mary, and read' also the second chapter, describing
the bir~ and infancy of the Saviour~ sometimes stopping to
give explanations, which she knew the 'simplicity of her au-
dience made necessary. ' The family service was concluded
with a prayer, and the: servants dismissed.
And' this evening service became thenceforth a daily prac-
tice. And Catherine's people learned mere of the life and
doctrines of the Saviour' from her, than they would have ac-
quired in a lifetime's attendance upon learned ministers, who
preach 'only for the educated.
On 'Monday moz~iing, Catherine entered upon her assumed
duty of overseer. And never 'were the affairs of' a plantation
better administered than by her. Her "good will was to it,"
and all' her faculties brought to bear upon the business. And
although she kept a firm hold upon: the reins of government~
exacted the complete' fulfillment of 'every~ duty, and kept

I

THE CUUSE OF CLIFTON.

-191

steadily at their post 'every man and' woman, yet never was
a mistress more beloved and venerated. And certainly never
was one so faithfully served. All subordinates need-not
harsh nOn lax government-.but a steady, slystematic, rational
government, which they can understand an~ be satisfied with;
and such an one was that of Catherine. i~Ier administration
was for her people a very wholesome change from the capri-
cious tyranny of the late' overseer, who had been accustomed
to permit the utmost license and larity 'among the laborers
for four or five days, and then, growing alarmed, to hurry
and worry, and drive and maltreat them for a week, to make
up for lost time. Catherine's government was regular, firm,
just and merciful. And she was loved, respected and served
accordingly. There were some exceptions, but they were
very few and unimportant, and soon fell under the general
rule.
And thus, in the perfect performance of every 'duty, do-
mestic and social, that devolved upon her as wife, friend,
mistress and Christian, Catherine passed the"winter. The
spring 'brought the usual accession of busy work, and she
gave herself up to its direction with untiring energy and ac-
tivity. She prayed, and labored, and trusted in~IJeaven, and
Heaven prospered her work, and all went well.' Before the
first of June, she had paid off all those heavy notes, which
had been accumulating interest so long. There were other
heavy debts, but she saw her way clearly through, discharg..
ing them before the end of the current year.
But she never, lever heard from Major Clifton. He seemed
just as lost to her as if the grave had received him. She
took all 'the principal newspapers, for the sake of keeping
the run of the campaign; and oh! often her cheeks and. very
lips paled, and her heart sickened and sunk with terror, to
read of the awful perils of war, and to thihk that he was ex-
posed to them. But terror was not the only emotion raised
by these descriptions of engagements. No-her whole sonl
glowed with patriotic ardor, when she read of the gallant re-
pulse of the combined land and naval forces of the British,
under Admirals Warren and Cockburn, and General Sir
Sydney B~ckwith, from Craney Island, by a mere handful of
our troops; and her heart swelled with love and enthusiasm,
when in the same account, she saw. her husband's name men-
tioned with' the highest encomiums upon his bravery, discre-
tion, and invaluable services.

'1
A


192

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTC~N.

Autumn came, bringing along with its.other associations,
intensely distinct images of the last sweet, calm days she had
passed at Hardbargain with her dying mother, and these
vivid recollections stimulated afresh her devotion and her
energy. During her administration, to clear the estate of
debt, and at its close, to restore it unencumbered into the
hands of her husband, was now her dear object. When the
harvest was gathered in, she consulted several of her most
intelligent and enterprising neighbors, concerning the state
of the agricultural markets, and afterwards proceeded to
Baltimore in person in order to obtain the best possible
prices for her crops. She succeeded in effecting highly ad-
vantageous sales, and with the proceeds she returned home
and paid off several of those heavy debts.
And so the autumn passed, and winter came, with its lei-
sure, its stormy days, and its long nights. Nothingoccurred
to break the monotony of daily life until the last of Decem-
ber, when she collected the half year's rent from Hardbar-
gain. arid paid off all the remaining debts, except one incon-
siderable note of six hundred dollars. On the morning of
the first of January, she sent as usual to the village post-
~flice for her papers. When the boy returned, he, handed
her a letter directed in the hand-writing of Major Clifton.
Oh! joy at last !-she tore open the envelope, and sciz~d the
enclosure-it was nothing but. a check' upon the Bank of
Richmond for five hundred dollars. She let it fall unheeded,
covered her face with her hands, and wept silently. But
when her fit of sikut weeping was over, she arose, took the
check, went and collected what money she had left in the house,
and ordered her carriage and drove to IA , and lifted
that last note. Then Catherine had the joy of seeing the
property entirely free from debt.
And so passed the winter and, came the spring of 1814.
And still she heard nothing froni.M~ijor Clifton. And since
reading the aceountof his galJant~ con4uct on Craney Island,
she learned nothing Qf him. And still from her loop-hole of
retreat, she anxiou~lywatched the progress of the war, seizing
upon all the published accounts, and reading them with the
greatest avidity. 116w diligently she searched the papers to
~nd his name, and how eagerly h~r eyes~ th~rted down upon
any offlcer~s name beginning with a C~ wbjch' always turned
out to he CruteJi~eld, C~rbin, Carq, anythi~ig but Olifton!,
Oh, how barren was all this war news,' after all!

19$

I
But Admiral Cockburn's piratical fleet was now in the
Chesapeake, spreading devastiktion and terror through all its
islands, coasts, and tributary rivers; and every paper was
filled with accounts of his marauding incursions and savage
atrocities, that defied just description, much more exaggera-
tion. Hear what a contemporary historian says of him;
"Throughout the waters and shores of the Chesapeake,
Admiral Cockburn now reigned supreme, ubiquitous and ir-
resistible. The burglaries, larcenies, incendiarism~, and
mere marauding, perpetrated by Admiral Cockburn, were as
odious and ignoble, though less bloody and horrible, than the
inhuman atrocities of the British savages in t~he West. Slaves
in large numbers, large quantities of tobacco, furniture~ and
other private property, protected by the laws of war, and
seldom taken, even if destroyed by laud troops, were seized
upon by the sea-faring warriors with piratical rapacity. The
predatory attacks of the enemy in the Chesapeake were
limited to isolated villages, poor farm-houses, and other in-
defencible objects taken or destroyed. Destruction was the
punishment proclaimed and executed for resistance. The
house and barn were burned of whoever fired a shot, or drew
a sword in self-defence. Many respectable persons in com-
fortable circumstances were reduced to poverty by these de-
predations. The poor were especial sufferers. With shores
so indented ~with creeks and bays, the whole force of a State
under arms would have been unequal~to cope with such over-
whelming aggressors."
Reading frequently such accounts as this, and even more
alarming ones than this, is it strange that Catherine sickened
with terror and anxiety for the safety of him who was exposed
to all the horrors of this unsparing warfare.
At length the shock came. It wa~ on the evening of the
day after harvest-home, and she had giyen all her people a
holiday, even down to the messenger whose daily duty it was
to bring her papers from the post office, telling him that he
might take the whole day, and bring her th~ mail when he
returned home at night. Thu~,instead of receiving her pa-
pers, as usual, in the ~morning, Catherine had to wait until
~he boy's return in the evening. She waPs sitting in' the
spinning-room, awaiting the assembling of her servants, whom
she had just summoned to evening worship, wheii ihey all
entered, aiid with them the post-boy; who came up and laid
before her the single paper that had come that day... She:
16~

TIlE ~!URS~ O~' CLIrTON.

A

K
4
4


TUE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

* took it, to lay aside until after the evening's devotions were
oVer-but a magic name on the outside arrested her attention.
She caught up the paper, and read in large capitals:
"ENOAGEMENT AT ST. LEONARD'S. British forces under
.Rdmiral Cockburn repulsed with considerable loss. .Major
Cliftoft dangerQ~zsly wounded."
She re3d no farther-~--the room swam around her-she
reeled, and fell into the arms of Henny, who sprang forward
to reeefve her. Her people crowded around her, in great
anxiety. But only one moment she fainted thus-then she
recovered, controlled herself, resumed her seat, and after
sending the servants all back to their places, by a wave of
her hand, opened the Bible, and commenced the evening's
exercises. Her face was very pale, her bands quivered in
turning the leaves, and her voice faltered, so as to be nearly
inaudible, but she persevered, and got through with the ser-
vice, even unto the benediction~, After it was all over, she
detained them a moment, by a gesture, and then said-
"Your master has been dangerously wounded."
Murmurs of surprise, grief and anxiety agitated the assem-
bly, and testified to their affectionate concern.
"Go now quietly to your homes, and to-morrow perhaps
I may be able to tell you more."
They dispersed slowly, turning glances of uneasiness and
distress ~t the silent anguish of her countenance.
She too, went out. How she spent the night is best known
to Heaven. In the morDing when she appeared among her
household-the wasted cheeks, the sunken eyes, the hollow
temples, ~tid the wi~itten agony of the brow, atone
consuming sorrow of her he~art.            proved the
"Jack-I want Jack," she said, as soon as sbe reached
her parlor. Atid the favorite servant appeared ~before her.
"Jack, I think you love, me," she said.
"Try me, mist'ess dear, an'. see; ef I doesn't.".
"And Irthink you love your master V' -
Ah! my' Lor'! Try me-jes on'y try me, mist'ess-.--
dat'a all."
'f I wish y~u to go to him from, me."
"Oh! iio-do-do-~.-do sen' me, mistress! It's war I
longs for to be."
~" I shall. The distance is over a hundred. xuiles. You
muat pick the best h~r~e in tI~ stable, aud start within 'an

hour, and tide day and night until'you' reach your destina-
tion."
"'Deed, mistress, I won't lot de grass grow onnerneaf of
my feet."
"Very well, then, go now-have you had your break-
fast ~"
" Yes, ma~am~~~
"Go now, then, and prepare for your journey, while I
write you a pass. And~ when you are quite ready, come to
me, and I will give you farther directions about your jour-
ney."
Jack hastened out-and his mistress remained for a few
minutes, with her hands pressed to her heart, repeating to
herself, with agonizing earnestness-
"Would-oh !-would to Heaven, I too, might go." Soon
she started, as with sudden recollection, and hurried off to
write the pass, and the directions about the road. And when
in less than half an hour Jack appeared before her again, she
was ready for' him. "Here," she said, "is your pass, and
written directions, lest you should forget what I tell you."
"Nebber fear me forgetting , x~iist'ess, dear."
"You must take the road to Alexandria, which is seventy
miles from here. When you reach that town, take the ferry-
boat and cross the Potomac to the Maryland side. Then in~
quire your road to the village of Benedict, on the Patuxent,
which is thirty or forty miles further down the country.
When you reach the village, ask the way to St. Leonard's.
Arrived at your journey's end, find Colonel Wadsworth, or
Major Stuart, or Captain Miller, show your pass and tell your
errand, and they will direct you where to find your master.
Do you understand ~"
"Yes, mist'ess."
"All this that I have toLd you is written down here on
this piece of parchment; take care of it, k~t you should forget,
and lose your way.~~
"Yes, ma'am, I'll be berry cautiencious."
"And now listen to me, Jack ;" her voice broke down,
some emotion seeme&amp; struggling in her bosom for expres.-
sion-.she quelled it and went on-" When you find your
master, write to me at once; thank Heaven I taught you to
write! write then to me at once, and tell we how he is. Will
you promise me that ~'
"Faithful, mist,'ess-faithful."

*

LU

TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.         195


196

THE OUItSE OF CLIFTON.

CC 4nd, Jack, when you have once found him, be faithful
unto death to him. Never leave him. Nurse him, wait on
him, watch over him day and night-.~.do so, if you love him,
Jack;" again the inward struggle choked her voice, and
~w1ien she resumed, it was with broken and faltering accents;
and, Jack, attend-take this note-and when his ever is
off-mind you, when he is calm-give it to him."
CCYes, n4st~ess, ~
"That is all I have to say to you. 'Now hasten. Good.
bye; and may Heaven bless and speed you."

I

~IIE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

197

CHAPTER XXXVI.
THE NIGI~T JOURNEY.
The heart on'ee broken by the loved,
Is strong to meet the foemen.-MRs. BROWNING.
NEARLY a fortnight of extreme anxiety passed away, during
which Catherine heard nothing from her rn~ssenger. On the
evening of the thirteenth day of his departure, however, a
letter was brought to her, directed in the well-known, but
alas! not very familiar hand-writing of Major Clifton. Oh,
joy! He was living then, and even well enough to write.
With a fervent ejaculation of deep gratitude to Heaven, she
broke the seal. But her face paled as ~he read-.
"ON BOAUD THE BRITISH 51111? ALBION, ~
"August 21st, 1814. ~
"CATHERINE
"Are you then destined to be forever fatal, not only to
me, but to every human creature 'that is fj~ithful to me ~
See what your reckless disregard of others' lives has
'done !-d~orned a poor, fond, faithful creature to a felon's
death! Attend, womail! to what I am about tc~ write. I
was itot dangerously wounded, as the iveWspapers reported,
but slightly hurt, and taken prisoner, and conveyed gj' board
this, the Admiral's ship--as they did not report. Thus, the
poor fellow, whom you sent on this death's errand, not find-
ing me in the American camp, and hearing that I was a pris.
oner on board the ]3ritish fleet, true to your command, to find
and eoinnittnieat~ with me, and reckless of his own danger,
procured a boat at Benedict, and came out 'alongside 'thi~
'ship. You know the result, as well as I can inform~ you.
The wretched boy was taken and put in irons' as a spy, and
'has been doomed to be hanged at the yard-arm. lie only


198            TlE VTJRSE OF CLIFTON.

198

waits, the Admiral's orders for execution. My own incon-
venience is nothing beside his cruel fate-yet, nevertheless,
I may as well inform you that I, who was upon parole, when
your messenger sought to 'communicate with me, have also to
thank your interference for being put i~inder arrest, and no-
thing but the relaxation of strict discipline, incident upon
the departure of the two commanders, and a mere fortuity,
affords me the opportunity of, writing, and sending this note.
Admiral Cockburn and General Ross are now on their march
to Washington City. And my object in writing to you is
merely this: to assure you)liy all my hopes of salvation, that
unless you, in your unequaled machiavelisni, find some way
of saving this boy from death, I will never see, or speak to
you again.                   ARCHflR CLIFTON."
Still clasping the letter, her hand and head fell with .a
gesture of utter despair.
"Why, what's de matter, Miss Kate, honey? no bad news,
I tins'," said Ilenny.
A deep, heart-breaking sob only answered her.
"My goodness, Miss Kate, deary, what is it den? ismarster
dead? Oh, deary me, Miss Kate, chile, don't keep on look-
ing dat a way-'deed, you puts a scare, on to .me !-don't!
'Sider how it's de Lord's will, honey, an' let de tears come,
let de tears come, chile ! Do, honey. 'Deed, troubles like
de zneasles; ef it don't break out, it strikes in an' kills you
dead__"
A gasp from Catherine, and a gesture imploring silence,
while she ~panned her temples with both hands, and tried to
think clearly.
"My gracious, Miss:Kate, dont look so ghashly; honey-
don't. Is master dead, sure enough ?"
"He's not dead, be's not dead," said Catherine, huskily,
*hile s~e waved her hand for peace.
"*Well, den, honey, long as der's life der'~ hope, an' no
casion for 'spair. Is he berry bad, honey ?"
"He's well-well," said Catherine, in the same tone.
"Well, den, long as he's well; what 'easion yon take on
so, honey-----Oh! my Lor'-taint-taint poor brother Jack
as anything's happened to ?"
* "Oh, flenny! Your master and Jack have both been
taken prisoners by Admiral, Cockburn!".
"Oh, Miss Kate! Oh, my Lor', Miss Kate! An' dey

do tell me how he eats his prisoners 'live," exclaimed Henny,
falling down into a chair, flinging her check apron over her
head,, and beginning to cry.
Almost' heedless of her handmaid's violent demonstra-
tions of grief 'and terror, Catherine walked 'up and down the
floor, witI~ her hands 'clasped around her temples, in the very
agony of thought. To save the boy from death-how was
she, at that remote distance, to save him? Oh! it seemed a
mockery, a snare, to put forgiveness upon such an impracti-
cable condition! Yet she thought him no setter of snares.
She thought over the whole of the letter, searching' for a
hint; she needed not to look at i 'gain-every line and
word was burned in upon her brain and heart-she thought
over the whole of it, earnestly searching for a clue to action.-
she found' it at length in the phrases, "He only waits the
Admiral's order for execution," and "Admiral Cockburn and
generall Ross are now on their march to Washington City."
She thought if she could see the Admiral, she might yet save
his life-of so little worth ~s a sacrifice to the enemy, but of
such inestimable value to her. 'The date of the letter was
the twenty-first-this day was the twenty-third. "Oh! he
is probably executed by this time," said DesponAency. "But
possibly not," said Hope. She tried to think clearly, to sepa.~
rate the dreadful chaos of thought and passion, and to weigh
and adjust circumstances, so as she might decide and act
promptly. Admiral Cockburn and Ge~ral Ross must be
near 'WashingtQn, if they had not already reached the city~
Washington was two 'full day's journey 'from her home,
but every 'hour was precious, for life and death might hang
upon it. She could perform the journey in a day and night.
11cr resolution was taken.' Going up to where lenny sat
crying, and rocking, herself "backward and forward, she
said-. '
"Rise, Ilenny, and go and tell James to saddle my horse,
my rough 'coated pony, Henny, he is the strongest and the
fleetest, an~d bring him around to the door."
"Oh, Miss Kate!, ~does you think he'll eat 'em sure
~nough ?"
~ "What do you mean, Henny.-.are you crazy ?"
"Admirable Cockbu'n, houcy. Does you think he'll eat
Marse Archy an' brother Jack,' s~ire 'nough? I hopes not,
'cause you see, chile, brother Jack, he's so poor ~ lean, an'
l~Iarse Archer,',he inns' be tongh an' stringy 'nough, too l~n~

0

4

199

TIlE CURSE 01' %IFTON.


200           TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.'

I;                 ~' all dis yer warfarin', but Lor', 'haps he'll think der gold
~~nough for sojers rations, and give 'em to dem."
"Henny that is all a notion."
"'Bout der eaten 'em, honey ~"
"Yes, yes-don't stop me now, Henny! hasten! hasten:!
quick!' quick, Henny! Have my pony caught, and then
hurry back to me."
"But, Miss Kate, are you sur&amp; ~"
"Yes, yes, I'm sure. Oh! hurry, hurry!"
The woman went out, and Catherine st4 down and penned
a hasty note to her neighbor,~the down-east tenant of Hard-
bargain, requesting hi~ to givo a slight supervision of affairs
at White Cliffs during her absence for a few~ days. By the
time she had sealed and directed it, Henny re-appeared.
"Go fetch my riding-dress, ilenny," was her next prompt
command.
My goodness, Miss Kate, where__"
~" Go, Henny, at once, and don't stay to question me."
The maid obeyed, and .her mistress rang the bell, and
gave the note she had Written to a boy, to. carry to Hard..
bargain.
As he left the room, Henny entered it with' the riding-
habit.
'"Help me on with it at once, Henny," said Catherine,
meeting her.
"My goodness, Miss ~at~! you to be goin' 'out. this time
o' night, an' we-dem in so much trouble. You didn' ax me
to tell nobody who wur 'to wait on you; but Jeemes, he's
getting' ready."
"No, no, I don't want anybody."
'KDear me, mistress, honey; 'where's you gwine ?"~ '
"Didn't I tell you ~ To Washington City."'
"To Washington 'P' exclaimed Henny, letting the dress
fall from her hands, and looking up in stupor.
"Yes, yes, didn't I tell you-to Washington, to' see A4-
miral Cockburn, and save your brother. I do not believe
of Cockburn-I~never believe of any one-as ill as is repoi'ted
of them, and I think if 1 go and make a proper representative
to him, I shall be able to save Jack."
Henny stood gazing at her mistress in the same stupor.
"Come, come, Henny! give me the other sleeve arounil
here," said Oatherine, impatiently.
* $till Henny stood' and stared in a stupor, until sudd~nily

200


A

TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.             2011
allher muscles and limbs gave way, 'andshe sank ~down be-
fore her mistress, embraced her knees, looked, up into her~
face, and said, in tones of earnest, deep affection-
"Don't go, mist'ess, don't~ go-~~-don't trust yer~e'f. long o'
Admirable C&amp;okbu~n7a~n' his bang~.gallows sojers.~ Don'I."
'." J~ must, ~JJIenny."
"Oh! no, no. Memorize what Ji~tppened at R~ison IRiv&amp;r,~
an' at Ham'ton, how dey nyder spared s.,exes norages-nyder
ole paralytic men nor little babies, nor de" young moders-
dein leastes' 'oh all Don,'t mist'es4 dear." -
"1' must Henny It is the only chance of, saving your
b~ther."
A'Oh, dear me! Oh, my heart's ready. for to break; but
nebbei~ mind~-.doii't go,~ mist'ess, don't go. Let him die,
mis~'ess, tain't. nothing' only but death arter all! an' Ad-
mirable Coekburn, 'save his funnelly soul, can't do nuffin'
'tall but kill him. An, poor. fellow, he hadn' lQng to live
110 how) wid a'suinption in. his'. breas', an' so it on'y comes
a li~tl~ sooner an' a little deffunt like. Don't go, Miss Kate,
dealT,, let. ~iim d~ie. '.~ I's~ his 'sister,. an~ Pse: been a 'inammy to
him, but I se~ ~o,. &amp;n' he'd say so, too., brother Jack would,
ef lie could 'on'y speak. Thug o' you!' Sute heM lay down his,
life Will
in in', an' so Wo~il4 us all, sooner 'an you' should fall
~id~'Admira1~1e Coekb~u~n."
"I know it, Ilenny! I kn&amp;w it! Don't talk to me any
longer, though every word you say but fixes my resolution
to go."
"Oh, Miss Rate! oh! don't,. dom'4" exclaimed ilenny,
clasping, her knees, and repeating all ~the 'arguments' and
entreaties she had used 'before. J3ut Catherine was firm -
as sad. , , .
"If you ~ make an, 'effort, sen' a messenger long
of a ixote, ~'Iiss Katp~ Da~! do dat-~.now dat's a geod
tronght"
Ab~]eave~i forbi&amp;!',. Ihave bad ~ough of risking poor
ig~1orazit e~Lu~e8, who ., c~nnolj~ Ireep themselves out of
danger6"         ~  ~ ~,  , .,  , . ,
"Well, 4en, ~issRate,~MQ is you gwine for to't~ke long.
o' yoix, to wait on you, ohile $~'  ~
There, give rue my)~t,~ j1~nn~."-i.
~'Yes, h~iey, w4 ~iu g~t~ t~4~ wid you V' ,
"I tol~i y&amp;u no one, Ienny-~br~44re~iny ~lovea 1"..
'qlere dey 'isv ~hon~y~. Oh, z~ist'es~,dat'~ su~~n~tde, an'
VOL. fl.-17


nothing' 'tall else. Take Jeemes 'long o' you! He's brave
~s a lion-comes to fending ' at you."
"No; James would need rest and food on the journey-I
shall require-..-I shall stop for neither. Besides there is not
a horse here who could bear his weight continuously for so
long a journey. My strong little mountain pony, I think,
may carry 'my light weight to the journey's end with very
little st6~ping."
'~'WOh~ Mi~~ ~Kate! 'deed I shall pray for you~"
"Yes, do, flenny.-that is the only way in which you can
help me. Come, go with me out."
"Stay, mistress, stay one minute! Ise thought ob anoder
thought."        -
"Well ?"
"Long as you will go unattended, please don't be 'noyed
at whaVI'ni gwine to say."
"Only be 'quick, Henny, that is all."
"Well, den, 'long as you will go Widout any 'fence or,
'tection-"'
,'"Except the Lord, Hermy."
"Yes, honey, sure 'nough-.-'cept de Lord's.-hadn't you
better put on-4iem-a..hem--~wale boy~s clothes ?"
~C What ?"
"Wouldn't it be more of a 'teetion to you? Now, der's
a suit in de house, you calls to mm', as 'ill jus' fit you. Deni
as' 'longed to Miss- Georgy, when she were a masquerade-
'play~.actorin' here wid de' city folks, here one Christmas,
Dey'd fit you to a tee."
""No thank youHenny!"
"You ain't mad 'long o' me for sayin' 6~ it, is'~ou, Miss
Kate?"
"Mad? Poor girl! No, Heminy9"
"Nor likewise 'noyed in yer feeliti's ?"
"No; no, 'you did but.- mistake," answered Catherine,
setting into her saddle, while 'James held the pony, and.
Jenny affeeti~xafely. arranged the riding skirt around her
feet and' h~rided'her the whip.
"There, 'there, that twill do; good-bye, all of you," said
'Catherine, feverishly~ ~ , .
Hermy burst into i~ud wailbig. 'Ua~herine paused and
laid her haxi4 upn~&amp;l~ -~h~ulder, sU~iemg her, While: ~he
~
'~"M~ pooi girl, 4o uo~if&amp;u'. ihave oor~wmtted myself' to

the Lord! I am in His hands. T trust in Him, else I
should not dare do this which so ems to you so much like
madness. I trust in him, and no evil can befall me."
"But oh! xnist'ess, inist'ess! If you should arter all
perish !"
"If I perish, I perish !-it will be no evil if the Lord
permits it !"
"I doesn't believe de Lord am gwine fur to 'mit it! I feels
safe 'bout young~ mistress, I does! I believes how ef Admi-
rable Cockburn or any of his jail-birds was to come fur to
sturve Mist'ess, trusting' in Hebben as she does, how a thun-
derbolt would strike him down sooner, an' she as puts her
trus' in de Lord, should come to any harm."
"Yes, or a yethquake, if ne'ssary !" exclaimed the more
ardent Henny. "I ain't 'feard for you no longer, mist'ess,
dear! Hebben is wid you !"
Catherine waved her hand in adieu, gave reins to her pony,
which bounded beneath her, and seemed to fly over the lawn.
She\ was fevered, excited.-" mad inspired," say either.
Night was closing darkly around her, but its sedative sha-
dows had no power to soothe her excited nerves-the dews
were falling, but they had no efficacy to coof her fevered
veins; a long journey lay before her, but iti length could
not discourage her; dangers were thickly strown about her
path, but they could not appall her; her only desire, her
only anxiety, was to reach her destination in season, if pos-
sible, to rescue this boy from death, because he was dear to
Clifton-dearer than she herself, his wife, was, she now
thought; and now her life itself seemed of little worth,
since the hope that was life's earthly end, was laid low.
Her only remaining hope was to save this life-her only
remaining fear, to fail in doing so.
Her path, for many miles, lay through the deep, intermi-
nable wilderness of forest, that, rising and falling with the
low mountain ranges, extended over more than half the
county. Her path was so narrow, and the branches 'of the
trees often so low and interlaced, that a single start of her
horse, or a single moment's hesitation to bow hei head,
might have dashed her brains out against the intersecting
branches of the trees. And ~in, ,the deep darkness of the
night, and in the despairing ~bse~ce~of her perceptive facul-
ties, this danger beset her ~evety~ i~tsti~nt. But she rode on,
like a monomaniac, str~~ngely heedIess,~and, like a somnam-

a

C~2~            ~Y~E CURSE OP CLIFTON.                                     THE CURSE QF' CLIFTON.          *203


204            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                  TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.        205

bulist, strangely preserved. As night deepened, and low..
ered, and thickened around her in the awful depths of the
wilderness, the distant howl of the hungry wolf, the nearer
cry of the fierce wild cat, and once the more fearful whistle-'~
signal of some outlawed desperado fell upon her ear. But
even these appalling . sounds struck no terror to a heart,
stunned by despair into insensibility to danger. And she
rode on through these terrific perils, strangely unconscious,
and strangely protected.
At length, as she descended the last steep, and drew near
to the outskirts of the wilderness, the lights of the small
village of L gleamed. through the interstices of the
woods-appearing and disappearing, jack-o'-lanternlike, until
she emerged from the forest and came, full upon the hamlet.
It was so late at night, that all the houses were shut and
dark, and the only lights were those she had seen in the fo-
rest,-the lights of the stage and post office. She passed
like a meteor through the gloomy street, eliciting only a
"What the deuce was that V' from a loiterer in the stage-
office, who had seen her flight, and emerged again upon an
open plain, over which her road lay for many miles. Another
village gleamed up from the plains-was reached, passed,
and left far behind with the same lightning-like speed.
* - She rode all night, less .sensible to danger and fatigue than
the hardy little mountain pony that was carrying her light
weight, but straining every nerve and sinew in the service.
The night was deeply dark-the clouds thick, heavy and
lowering; she had no means of computing time Or distance,
but farn~s, forests and fields continued to loom, appear and
*   vanish, as she fled past them. She watched the East with
feverish anxiety f~r day. But still mountain, meadow, and
moorland came and went, as she approached and hurried
by them, and still deep darkness hung like a pall over
Heaven and earth. Vainly she watched the East, for
hamlet, village or town iii turn was seen and reached and left
* behind, and still a wall of dense blackness blocked, up the
Orient.
A ifew and very serious danger threatened her every in~
stant-her poor horse, fatigued nearly to death, was re~dy to
fall, and she did not know it. He reeled and totter4 and
-stumbled and coveredd himself many times, and she did not
see or feel it! nay, she mechanically exerted every norve
~and sinew to hold him up, and keep him on his feet, while

totally unconscious of her own exertion. Like a sleep
walker was she in. her deep abstraction.
She was in a deep forest again riding for life, and the
veins in her arms were swelled out like cords, with straining
to hold the horse up on his feet. She could no longer see the
Eastern horizon, but it was growing lighter, and she knew that
morning was dawning. She rode on, and on, and on, and
at length came out of the forest in time to see the level rays
of the rising sun striking redly across the fields. The win-
dows of a farm-house flashing back the early light gleamed
upon her vision, and at the same time her horse reeled and
fell with her. "Good Lord !" "Are you hurt P' "Run
here, Tim." "Call your mistress, Peter." "Where are you
hurt, lady ~ can you tell us
Catherine awoke as *out of a dream, to see many people
around her all asking questions, and all attei~npting to extri-
cate her from her saddle. She passed her hand across her
brow, as was her wont when trying to disp~il thought, and
she looked at them in perplexity.
"My Lord, I'm afraid she's very much hurt! Can you
speak, lady ~ Where is your injury ~" said the eldest man
of the party, at length, lifting her in his arms.
"I-no-Pm not hurt-not the least; is the horse ~"
"We don't know, ma'am; I'm sure it's a blessed thing
you're not killed yourself," said another of~ the group, who,
with several more, were trying to raise the pony upon his
legs.
"Pray put me down upon my feet. Thank you. I'm not
hurt. How far is Washington City from this place V' said
Catherine, as she stood v~atching her horse.
"Good forty miles, lady. I don't think he's hurt, but
poor fellow, he's trembling with fi~igue," said the farmer,
answering her, and then examining the horse, which was
raised at last and stood tremblitig and blowing.
"Can he take me to Washington to-day '?" asked Cathe-
rine, as she leaned against the fence for support.
"He ?-Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! Why look at him, lady!
Besides, can you go there yourself anyhow ~ Why you're
ready to drop now! *Better go in and let the old woman
put you to bed and give you some breakfast."
"It is true I'm very stiff and weary-having ridden all
night. But I must reach Washington without delay; there
is one I care about under sentence of death. If I reach
-      17*


~2O6            ['UE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                    TIlE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          207

there in time, I may get a reprieve and save him. I must
go to-day." Catherine spoke this, frequently pausing for
breath. When she ceased,-
"Some of her nationss gwine to be hung, an' she gwine to
see President Madison to get him off! May depen', that's
it !" whispered one farm laborer to another.
"Can you let me have a horse to take me there to-day ~
I will paytwice.'-.ten times his value," said Catherine, raising
her~ heavy eyelids to the old farmer's kind face.
"Lady, I'll let you have another horse in two hours from
this, on condition 'that you go in to my old woman and take
some refreshment, and lie down to rest for that time. And
not a minute sooner, and not on any other terms whatsoever,
even if it was your father was going to be banged-would I
let you have a horse; because I see very clearly that, unless
you take some rest, you will drop down dead before you get'
a mile farther on your road."
"It is true-it is the voice of Providence, I think-I
thank you very much; II will rest. Please take care of my
poor pony."
"He shall be looked after, lady. Take my arm." And
the worthy farmer drew Catherine's arm within his own, and
carefully aiid respectfully supported her to the house, where
he gave .her into the charge of his wife, saying, "here, wait
upen this lady, honey! be a mother to her, honey! for she's
sorrowfully in want of one."
The farmer's wife placed her in a stuffed chair, drew off
her gloves, untied her hat and removed it, unfastened her
spencer, and asked her if she would have breakfast, which
was just ready to go on the table.
"No, thank you.. You are very kind. The Lord reward
you. But-rest, I want only rest," said Catheripe, ready te
swoon, for the sense of fatigue was growing. upon her.
"' Yes, rest,, that's all she wants, or rather that's the most
she wants now! Put her to bed! let her sleep for two.hou.rs,
~nd have a cup of strong coffee and .a broiled chicken ready
for her when she wakes. That will set her up again, and
help her to reach her journey's end," said the kind-hearted
man.
Supported, by the farmer's wife, Catherine was guided up
the stairs to a cool and,, quiet room, where she dropped upon
the bed. No sooner ha~d her head touched the pillow, than
the room,4he whitewashedd wall, blue window-curtains, the

901

206

evergreens in the whitened fire-place, the picture of the an-
nunciation over the mantle-piece--all reeled around her
senses as a vision, and wheeled 4off, carrying with them the
outside world and all consciousness of being.
To her, existence was blotted out for two ~hours.
"Wake up, lady! wake up! your breakfast is ready, and
so is your horse !"
Catherine started up at the voice of her landlady, and
gazed around, bewildered. Then memory flashed upon her,
and she sprung to her feet, and began hastily and nervously
to fasten her habit.
"Here is water, lady,~and napkins-and is there anything
else IL can bring you $"
"No, thank you, you are very good."
"How do you find yourself P'
Bette~-III think. How lorg have I slept I"
"Just two hours. I wished to let you lie longer, but my
dear old fellow insisted on keeping his word with you."
"I'm glad he did. It was very needful. But you are
kind, and I thank you."
Catherine bathed her head and face, and the good hostess
combed and arranged her hair, and fastened her habit 'and
took her down stairs, where a comfortable breakfast awaited
her. It was yet but seven o'clock, and the farmer assured,
her that she had time enough to reach Washington by night-
fall and that she would be far better able to do it from
having had this rest. She hastily swallowed a few mouthfuls
of food, drank a cup of strong coffee, that gave her a sort
of fictitious strength, and then arose from the table and
quickly prepared to resume her journey. The good woman
followed her with many kind wishes, and the good man set
her in her saddle, a.1d while adjusting her comfortably, gave
* directions about the nearest way to W-, the i~ext con-
siderable town upon the road. Then lie gave her the reins,
and prayed 0-od to bless her. She, thanked her kind hosts
earnestly again, put whip to her horse and galloped away,
leaving her valuable pony in pledge.
The farm-house~ With its garden, orchard and vineyard,
barns, wheat-stack and stubbleAlelds vanished behind her
flying steed. The conutry. wa5 now open, and she flow on
and on before' 'the wind. ':And x~ow she had entered the
forest, and she huriied i~h$~ugh its deep shadows, flecked
with golden sun-glances. -When sl~e e~nerged again, and

A
4'4
Ii
I


TIlE CURSE GY CLIFTC~.

found herself in the open meadows, it was high noon, and the
August sun was pouring down his burning rays with intqler~..
ide power. I3ut on and on she rode, unconscious of suffering
in herself, and unheedful of the fatigue of her panting and
perspiring steed.
It was two hours past noon when she reached the town of
W , and at the very first inn on the suburbs her horse
stopped, of his own will, nor could she, with all her efforts,
persuade or force him to budge a step. A l~oy, a colored
woman, and then the landlord, his wife and all the children
came out, to see a lady riding, unattended, who could not
make her horse go.
*" He wants food and drink, I suppose," said Catherine, to
the landlord, who at last caine to offer her aid. And then
she alighted, and requesting the host to have the animal at-
tended, very quickly, followed the landlady, who conducted her
into the rustic parlor. She was now so fatigued and stiffened,
that the .act of standitig or walking was really painful, so
she sank down upon the lounge, and declining all the land-
lady's offers of refreshment, waited a weary half hour, while
her horse was feeding. At the and of that time, she mounted
again, and resumed her journey. She passed through the
town, and over the wooded hills that environed it on the
east, and came down upon the plains. - The heat of the after-
noon was of that close, breathless, insufferable kind, that
always forebodes an awful storm. The sense of suffering
was beginning to force itself upon her, and as for the animal
she rode, she could not, by any means, coax or drive him
beyond a walk. Then her mind became again anxiously
concentrated upon the end of her journey, to the total ex-
clusion of all other thought, and all sense. It was in this
state that she arrived at the foot of a steep hill, covered with
copse-wood, ascended its top, descended the other side, and
reached a small river at its foot. She drew up her feet,
doubled her riding-skirt np over the horse's shoulders, and
guided him into the ford, and-with tbe water splashing
around, and rising even to the animal's neck, she crossed
the river-~so mechanically, so unconsciously, that had people
asked her, thereafter, whether~ she had forded a stream in her
journey, she could not have tdd them.
The sun wasp declining to+his setting, and, the sky was
heavy with eloi~de, while~ etill the air ~w~s close, sultry,
stifling and oppres~ivo. Everything. ~iiidi~ted the approach

THE CURSE OF OLlFTO~i.

209

before long of a tremendous tornado. The shades of even-
ing were falling thickly around her when she was passing
through the dense, low-lying forest south-west of Washing-
ton. W~ien she emerged from its deep obscurity and came
out into the open country, an alarming phenomenon~arrested
her attention; the eastern horizon was luridly lighted by a
low, dull, red glow, like the earliest dawn of a wintry morn-
ing. Her road led directly towards this murky light, and
her eyes were fascinated to it. As she rode and gazed, the
blood-tinged illumination seemed to glow and brighten on her
vision, and presently after, began to send up meteoric streams
of fire towards the clouds. As the distance lessened between
herself and the awful conflagration, it began to illumine her
path more and more distinctly and fearfully, until every ob-
ject for miles around was plainly visible in the lurid glare.
And then at last Catherine recognized it for a burning city-
the city of Washington wrapped in flames!
On descending the road towards the Potomac,~ a scene
difficult to describe met her view. All up and down the river
and on either shore, were seen in the red glare multitudes
of fugitives-some seeking to cross, some in boats on the
water, and some landed and hurrying in disorder up the
country. Soon after this, she met great numbers of terrified
women and children, flying from their desolated homes. The
greatest possible consternation and confusion prevailed among
these panic-stricken fugitives. The most terrific reports
were rife: That the enemy were in hot pursuit-that the
slaves had been incited to revolt, and mad with emancipa-
tion, and drunk with all manner of licentious excess, were
perpetrating more horrible and revolting atrocities than those
which at Hampton, the year before,~steeped the country in
blood and shame.
Rendered by despair senseless as tIAle dead to all these
dangers, Catherine laboriously pushed and threaded her way
down the road, blocked up with horses, carriages, foot-pas-
sengers, baggage wagons, cattle, and all the miscellaneous
emptying of a hastily and fearfully evacuated city. As she
drew near the Long Bridg~ she heard by the frightened
talk of the flying multitude, that the end of the bridge on
the Virginia side had ~been burned to prevent, or at least
delay, the pursuit of the enemy. She then turned her horse's
head up the course ofthe 'rivei~, with the intention of~orossing
by' the Georgetown Ferry.. 'She had no trouble in picking

1K
I,;
I
''A
- p., 'A
p
'A
r
A.

~t A~p


210

.TII~ CURSE OF CLTFTON.

~her way through the thicket under the hill5 that bordered the
Potomac from this point, for every minutest object on the
way was made painfully distinct by the light of the burning
city. When nearly opposite Georgetown, she described the
ferry-boat put off from the other shore, and propel1~d rapidly
across the river. She stopped her horse, intending to wait
and return with it. In less than five minutes it touched the
beach, and a carriage with a small party of ladies, escorted
by a guard of nine cavalry volunteers~ landed.
In the hurried consultation that ensued among them,
Catherine learned that the party consisted of Mrs. Madison
and her friends and attendants, flying from the burning
Presidential Mansion. When they had turned their horses'
heads up the river road, Catherine rode down to the boat,
and addressed herself to the ferryman, asking to be taken
~over. The man looked at her iii astonishment, and when he
saw that she was in earnest, advised her strongly against the
trip, telling 'her that she had best turn rein and ride as fas't
and as far as possible in the opposite direction-that every
one l~ad fled or was flying from Washington, that the city
was in the undisputed possession of the enemy, who were
domolishii~g, burning and laying waste the metropolis at
pleasure. There was no need to tell that-the fact was
awfully visible by the light of the great conflagration. But
Catherine still persisted in her purpose, replying to his ob-'.
jections that some one whom she did not wish to desert was
in the hands of the enemy; and at last prevailed upon him
to put her across.
She was landed on the flats west of the city. Here crowds
of women and children, pale with terror, ~nd weeping and
wailing for their ruined city and lost homes, waited impa-
tiently to be taken across the river, out of the way of more
horrible fates, which the' atrocious reputation of Cockburn
and his Cossaeks'reasonably taught them to dread. Cathe-
rine left them hurrying in mad confusion into the boat, while
she hastened on to the very ~cene of peril from which thcy
were flying. She passed swiftly over the low and marshy
fields that then lay between the river and the heart of the
city, and entered upon Twenty-%lrst Street, above the War
Department, and turned into Pennsylvania Avenue.
What a scene! Volumes o~' smoke, as from an enormous
volcano, were disgorged in inas~ive clouds, and settled like a
black canopy over the doc~nied city.. The President's Palace

I

!~iIE CURSE O~ CLIPTON.

211

and the Treasury Building, swathed in their shrouds of fire,
illumined all the scene with terrific splendor. Even at the
distance of several hundred yards off, her eyes ached with
the insufferable light and scorching heat. At the distance
of a mile, the CapitQl, wrapped in its mantle of flame, sent
forth a hail-storm of sparks and burning brands.
In strange and awful contrast to this appalling progress of
destruction, was the dread silence that reigned over the fall-
ing city. All the terror, consternation, hurry and distrac-
tion were left, without. Here, upon the very scene of action,
all was comparatively quiet. The houses were shut up, and
if. they contained any inmates, they were hiding in obscurity.
The streets seemed forsaken by the conquerors, as by the
conquered. There was no shout of soldiery, no martial music,
no sign or expression of a grand military triumph anywhere,
no sound to be heard from the powerful enemy in possession,
except a distant, dull, heavy, monotonous tramp, as of many
retreating hoofs. The flames were doing theii~ work of de-
struction in silence, only broken by the occasional crash of
some falling roof, cupola, or pillar, or some reverberating ex-
plosion. Catherine passed under' the blinding glare and
scathing heat of the burning Treasury Building, and turning
the elbow of the Avenue, came upon a sentinel,~ who instantly
levelled- his musket and challenged her, with "Who goes
there ~"
"The Admiral," said Catherine, drawing rein.
The sentinel lowered his musket with a surly "Pass on,"
followed by a low, insulting comment. Catherin~ had merely
intended to express her errand, and had chanced upon the
countersign.
"Where shall I find your commander V' she next said.
"The. General ?"
"No-Admiral Coekburn."
"Corporal," said the soldier, in a low, distinct voice. The
Corporal of the Guard advanced.
"What did you want, mum ~"
"To be conducted to the presence of the Admiral," an-
swered Catherine, with an imploring glance. Perhaps some-
thing in her countenance moved the pity of the officer-.
perhaps he thought her a sufferer~from the devastation of the
city. At least he volunteered to b~ her guide, and request-
ing her to accompany him, led the way down the avenue
towards the Capitol.

V
.4
4
{

V :~


212                                                                       TILE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           21&amp;

"Did you know, mum, that a curfew had been proclaimed;
and the ~ forbidden to ~ in the streets after eight
o'clock in the evening ?" 1
"No, and if I had, I should have been still obliged to
disregard it, for a matter of more than life and death hangs
upon my interview with the Admiral," replied Catherine,
speaking out of the fullness of her heart.
The distance between the Treasury Building and the Cape
itol ~vas about one mile, and the glare of the conflagration at
each end, revealed a line of sentinels, posted at regular in-
tervals the whole length of the avenue.
A ride of ten minutes brought them to the encampment
of the enemy on the Capitol Hill, east of the burning edi-
fice. Here, indeed, prevailed much of the noise and disorder
consequent upon the relaxation of discipline after a day of
severe action. Nearly four thousand men were resting, some
leaning upon their muskets, some seated' upon the grass, and
some flat upon the ground, in the death-like sleep of drunk-
enness or exhaustion.
A group of officers, with their gorgeous scarlet and gold
laced dresses resplendent in the glare, stood watching' the
progress of the fire. Towards these the Corporal conducted
Catherine. One from among them advanced, laughing
coarsely, as he exclaimed-" Who have we got here, Corpo-
ral ?-a woman, by George! and a young and pretty one, too,
to judge by the pretty figure. You're welcome, madam.
What, afraid ~ - Well, I suppose you have formed a terrible
opinion o~ me from ,the newspapers, which delight to repre-
sent us ~ as devils. Never fear me. Satan is not half so
black as. ~he saints paint him! You shall be far safer under
my. goveri~iment than 'uiAer Madison'sq Ross says he makes
no war upon letters or ladies. Ho, ho, ho! Ross-he's
sentimental, you know! Well! d- letters, but I make
no war upon ladies either, except with Cupid's weapons-ho,
ho, ho, ho, ho! What, afraid still. Come! let's see your
face;~ never saw a shy woman yet that had not a face worth
seeing."
Abashed at this manner of address, Catherine hung her
head, until the Corporal whispered-
"Rear Admiral Cockburn."
Then she stole a glance at the speaker.
A flashy, overdressed, yet slovenly person, a florid com-

plexion, a clear, mirthful, audacious blue eye-a sensual
mouth, and a free, dashing, insolent mapnei~, marked the
licensed Pirate of the Chesapeake, and the boon companion
of the profligate Prince of Wales.
"What, shy yet! By your leave, my dear !" said the
Admiral, chucking his hand under Catherine's chin, and.
raising her face. Poor Kate's face, as well as her hair and
her dress, was stained with dust and tears and perspiration,
and her featixres were pale and haggard with sorrow, anxiety
and ex~rcme fatigue. The profligate dropped her chin with
a start, as if it had burnt him, exclaiming-
"Whisht! Ugh! Brownies and kelpies, and witches on
broomsticks! Oh! ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! Ugh! what a face!
Here, Corporal, I pass her over to you; you seem to be kindly
disposed. There is no accounting for tastes, so-Oh! ho,
ho, ho, ho, ho! I make you a present of her. Oh-h!
where can I find a dozen pretty girls to get the cross out of
my eyes P'
Mortified, repulsed, despairing, Catherine stood by her
horse, with one arm thrown around his neck, and her head
resting upon it.
A low hum of voices around her, seemingly incident upon
some one's arrival on the scene of action, and then a sweet,
deep-toned voice near her, inquiring-
"Can we be so happy as to serve you in any way, lady ~
I should be most grateful for the opportunity. To be able
to render any service is always a most soothing amelioration
to me of the harsh duties of war."
"Major-General Ross," whispered the friendly Corporal,
stooping to her ear.
Catherine raised her head, and sa~w,.~bending towards her,
a very handsome man, in the early prime of life, of a grave,
sweet, thoughtful, and somewhat melancholy expression' of
countenance, who regarding her with respectful sympathy,
repeated his offers of service, saying
"If I ara so fortunate as to be abl~ to assist you, lady,
pray do not hesitate a n~oment to cor~imand me."
"Thank you, thank you-I-wisEed to speak with the
Admiral-but "
"With me! oh, ho, ho, ho, ho! I beg your pardon! I
beg to decline the honor! Talk to Ross-be's sentimental,
and-responsible! the father of a family, ect.'-' a married

L

21&amp;

I

212

p A


214

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.''

man myself, with several sweet children, and venerate the
sanctity,'* ect. Eli, Ross ? Oh, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho !"
"Speak with me, lady. I shall be most happy to aid you-.
What is it ? Have you or yours suffered, or received any
injury by our soldiers that I can redress?~ Can I help you
in any way'?" asked General iRoss, In gentle, earnest tones-.
" Yes, yes, I think you may have power to do me a vital
service."~
" Name it, lady. My word is pledged."
" His word is pledged!- Oh, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho !-pledged
to a scare-crowr !-pledged to a kelpie !-pledged to a witch
on a broomstick ! Oh, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho ! Oh-h !" shouted
the coarse Admiral-.
The eye of Ross flashed for an instant, but sheathed its
fire as he turned to Catherine, and, taking her hand respect-
fully, drew her aside from the proximity of the brutal Cock-
burn, who, in addition to his other graces, was now doubly
inflamed by drink and triumph.
" A tryste ! a tryste with the Queen of the Kelpies ! Oh,
ho, ho, ho, ho, ho !" roared -the Admiral, holding his sides,
and bending forward to shout his insulting laughter, and then
stalking off." -'
" Explain, lady. I shall be proud to serve you. Pray
have confidence in me, madam,.and believe in the sincerity
of my words," said General Ross, still holding her hand,
while she passed her other one slowly to and fro across her
forehead, as was hef- habit when embarrassed, trying to clear
her mind and arrange her thoughts-.
But as son as she was relieved from the presence of the
coarse and insolent Cockburn, she recovered breath and self-,-
possession, and spoke clearly and to the point.'
" I thank you, sir.-J deeply thank you. I will tell you-.
I heard, in my distant mountain home, that my husband,
Major Clifton, of the  --Regiment of Volunteers, had
been dangerously wounded in the action at St. Leonard's. I
did not hear that he had also been taken prisoner. Believing
him to be still in the American camp,- and fearing that he
needed more constant attention than he could get,'"and feel-
ing very anxious to hear directly from him, I sent his favorite
servant to flnd him, directing the man to remain with him,
* Words usedl by the generous and unfortunate General Ross, while
trying to sothe the fears of Mrs. E--

arid to write me of his state. lie, this servant, was a poor,
rustic negro, sir, totally ignorant of the usages of war.
When he reached the American camp, he discovered that his
master was a prisoner on board the British fleet. He pro-.
cured a boat and boarded the Albion. IHe was taken as a
.spy, of course, and, to end the miserable story, awaits only
the orders of 'Admiral Cockburn~to be executed. I heard
that yesterday evening, and I instantly set off, and between .
that hour and this have ridden more than seventy miles, al-
most without stopping for food or rest, and entered the city
to-night alone, when all were flying from it, to beg this man's
life from the Admiral. Now, you know, you know, how vital
is my request, my prayer."
a"You could not have done more for your father, lady !"
replied General Ross, with a gentle, earnest wonder -on his
fine countenance. " You could not have done more for your
father than you have done for this slave.'"
" Do not wonder, sir. He would have laid down his life
for us. But, oh, sir ! time presses-deaths threatens !"
" Be at peace, ladyA The life or death of this slave, of
such vital imipor'tance to you, is really a matter of so little
moment to Admiral Cockburn, that I have not the slightest
-hesitation in promising to secure for you ,jis pardon and
.liberation."
" Oh, may the Lord forever bless you, sir ! I never, never*
can tell you how grateful I am-
-" Peace, peace, dear lady. It is absolutely nothing. I
would to Heaven I could really do anything to merit your
kind word and kind remembrance, when others are cursing%
.me for what the stern duties of war force me to do !"
" I shall ever remember you, sir, with the deepest grati-
tude."
" And now, Mrs. Clifton, you must have rest and refresh-
ment. My head-quarters are at IYoctor E---'s.    His
amiable family are at home. They will gladly afford you
comfort and assistance. Permit me to conduct you thither."
He replaced her -carefully in her saddle, and taking the
reins, led her horse 'until they reached the commodious man-.
sion of Doctor E---. Here he introduced Mrs. Clifton,
who was received with i'espect and sympathy. Leaving her
in the care of the kind and hospitable family, he then set out
to seek Admiral Cockburn.
Catherine was shown to a chamber, and afforded the re

THE CURsE OF CLIFTON.

6
"V

2215

1
6
4
t I~


216            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.                                   TlE OURSE 0? CLIFTON.        217

freshments of a partial bath and food. After which she lay~
down on a sofa, to rest, and await the return of the gentle
and generous Ross.
In about half an hour she was summoned to the parlor,-
where she found him standing. He advanced to meet her,
and said-
"Mrs. Clifton, I have the pardon here, but I very much
fear-" and his face clouded over-" I very much fear it will
be too late."
"'Too late!"' echoed Catherine, sinking into a chair, as
she repeated the saddest words in the language-" Too late.
Is he dead ?" she asked, covering her face with her hands.
"No, Mrs. Clifton, but he has been ordered for execution
at eight o'clock to-morrow."
"IT 15 NOT TOO LATE !" exclaimed Catherine, starting
up, with electric energy. "Give me-oh! give me, the par-
don !-I will take it there in time !"
"Lady, the distance is over forty miles-and the necessary
delays, and the dangers that threaten a young female, travel-
ing alone by night, through a country infested-"
"Oh! give me the pardon! give it me, I implore you!
I will take it there safely, and in time! Heaven has pro~
tested me through dangers as great, and -Hicaven will pro-
tect me through these! Oh, for the love of Heaven, do not
hesitate! Every moment is inestimable when a 'too late'
threatens us! Give me the pardon !"
Nay, lady, I can send a courier with the pardon, rather
than that you should go, for many reasons."
" Oh, no, no, your courier would want to stop, to eat and
drink-or he might fall 'in with some of our people, and be
killed or taken,-or if he escaped, through his explanation
of his errand-.-why, that very errand would be rendered fu-
tile, by the time lost in investigation. I shall pause for, no-
thing. Heaven will protect and speed me. Oh! give me
the pardon. Do not delay! .1111 depends upon promptitude.
Alas! excuse my importunity! but give me the pardon !"
General Ross attempted to dissuade her; but neither ar-
guments nor persuasions had the least effect upon her resolu-
tion. At last; overruled by her earnestness, vehemence and
faith, he yielded-handed her the pardon, and went out to
see if he could procure her a fresh horse.
When he entered again, after a successful search, he found
her equipped for her eecQfld night's journey, and standing in
V

the midst of her astonished hosts. He informed her that Iher
horse was ready, and also that he had provided her a guard,
to escort her beyond Bladensburg. Then she took a hasty
and grateful leave of her amiable entertainers, and accept-
ing the arm of the Major-General, left the' house.
As General Ross placed her in the saddle, and handed her
the reins, he said-
"Heaven protect and speed you, lady. Farewell-and,
sometimes remember me."
"I will remember and pray for General Ross while I live,"
said Catherine. And then she put whip to her horse, and
rode away, upheld by a wonderful energy.
18*

217

1~

$16

41


'0

.9
21&amp;              TUE CURSE OF CLiFTON.
ChAPTER XXXVII.
TILE GOAL.
Thro' waves, thro' storms and clouds,
He gently clears thy war,
Trust thou his grace-so shall the night
Soon end in joyous day.-MoRAvIAN.
INCALCULABLE is the power of the spirit over the flesh.
In the intense absorption of her soul by one hope, Catherine
was carried above all consciousness of the excessive exertion,
and all sense of the extreme fatigue that was oppressing and
harassing her bodily powers almost to dissolution. But a
watchful Providence, that had already thrice arrested her
dreadful journey, now a fourth time interposed to compel her
to rest. She had parted with her escort, when past the Brit-
ish outposts, beyond Bladensburg. And by the time she
had reached Long Old Fields, the storm, that had been
threatening all the evening, burst suddenly, with terrible
violence, driving her for shelter into a farm-house. And
again, wondering and compassionate hosts persuaded her to
lie down ~nd repose, and once more, as soon a~ her weary
head dropped upon the pillow, deep sleep, like an irresistible
mandate of the All Merciful, fell upon her, and, despite of
pain of body and anguish of mind, she slept soundly foi~
several hours ;-slept, as the prisoner sleeps the night before
execution ;-slept, as the martyr sleeps in the- intervals of
torture upon the rack ;-slept, while the tempest raged with
awful fury ;-while the rain fell in torrents, and the wind
rushed through the forest, carrying destruction on its wings;
while gigantic trees were twisted off, or torn up by the
roots, and great. rivers were swelled to floods ;-she slept the
deep, dreamless sleep "God giveth His beloved." Probably
to this Providential sleep she owcd the preservation of her
life, for the spirit that qan goad the flesh to exertion unto
death, cannot save it from dissolution.

I

THE~ dJRSF. OF CLIFTON.

219

When she awoke, the storm had passed, and the stars were
shining dimly in the early dawn of day. She started up, re-
morseful and aifrighted to find she had slept so long, and to
recolleot that her journey was not half over. It was now
four o'clock, and she had yet nearly thirty miles to ride be.
fore eight, or all was lost! Her pitying hosts tried to per-
suade her to wait and partake of their early breakfast, which,
they said, would be ready in half an hour; but finding her
bent upon setting forward, they hastily got some refreshment
together, and permitted her to mount her horse and depart.
But she had not proceeded many yards, before she found that
the motion of her steed gave her great pain-pain so sharp,
as to force itself to be felt through all her intense mental
abstraction. She checked her horse's trot, and put him into
a gallop, whose smooth, wavy motion, somewhat relieved her
distress.
The, morning was sparklingly brilliant after the storm; the
forest trees and the grass were spangled by the rain-drops,
and the slanting ray~ of the rising run striking deep into the
foliage, flecked all its green leaves with golden light. Her
horse was fresh, his blood was up, and on they sped like an
arrow through the woods..
Suddenly she stopped and reeled backwards-that sharp
pain again; it pierced her side and chest like a sword; it
caught away her breath, and caused the drops of perspiration
to burst from her pale forehead. But not for pain, or even
for the fear of death, must she pause. She might perish, bu~
her purpose must first be accomplished, if possible.
Bracing her nerves, and steeling her sul against the sense
of suffering, she put whip to her horse, and flew on, as before
the wind, leaving forest, meadow and hamlet-farm-house,
field and flood, far behind her. A~ain and again the sharp
agony arrested her, like the, hand of~aeath-but in .vain to
stop her progress-each time the pang could only delay her a
moment, and then on and on she sped, spurning the ground
away in her desperate flight.
Before her, in the distance, glimmered the blue Patuxent,
the longed-for goaf. Oh! that river; for an hour past it
ha~ seemed as near as.now. Would she ever approach it ~
On and on she sped, while woods and towns and plains whirled
behind her in a mad reel. A fearful change was coming over
her. The sense of pain, with -all other sense, had gradually
left her. A stupor of weariness supervened; her brain

)

~ ~


"7

TUE CURSE OF CLIFTON~

reeled; her sight failed. Oh! that river, how it gleamed
and disappeared, and gleamed again before her. Would she
ever, ever be nearer to it'? How dim the sunlight was, and
how unsteady the ground; and the boundaries of the sky and
earth were molten together and lost; and it was no longer
the action of her horse, but the dreadful rocking and up..
heaving of the ground, that kept her moving, moving, moving,
forever. Oh! that river! hi~w it .glimmered and sparkled,
and sparkled and flashed into her brain. Would she ever,
ever, ever reach it, or was she going round in a circle forever'?'
Reason was failing at last-past, present and future-things
that were, and things that seemed, swam thickly together
upon brain and heart; surely the hour of dissolution had
come, for dense darkness and heaviness were settling like
grave ~1ods upon brain and heart. Oh! God, that river !.-~
had sh~ really reached it at last, or was it an illusion of do..
hirium ~ Kilts waves rolled and flashed in silvery splendor at
the foot of the hill, below her feet! But what was that'?
Angels in Heaven! what was that'? A sight to call back
ebbing life.4! Down in the dell, the glitterbof bayonets and
the glow of scarlet coats-~-an open square of British infantry,
enclosing an execution scene! Clutching the pardon from
her bosom, and holding it aloft at arm's length, she roused
her fast failing strength for a last effort, and hurled herself
and steed furiously down the hill upon the scene of doom.
The flash of steel around her-the gallows tree-the cart-
the prisoner-the fatal noose-and more than ~all, close be..
side her, the form of him-her own-her Clifton-madly
loved in life and death, and then-darkness closed in upon
her life, an~ all was lost.
As the reins fell from powerless hands upon the horse's
neck, the noble animal stood stock still; had he lifted a leg~
it must have been fatal to the swooning rider; but he stood
like a statue, while her form swayed to and fro for a moment,
and then Archer Clifton .sprang forward and received her in
~iis arms. He picked up the paper as it fell from her stiffen-
ing       and guessing its purport, passed it to the officer
in command. Then he sank upon one knee, drew her insc~-
sible form to and supported it against his breast, while ~he
untied her hat and loosened her spencer.
A little bustle ensued around him; but he did not heed it,
bending over Catherine. The execution was stayed, the pri-
soner released, and poor Jack, half-dead 'with terror before,

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

221

and half mad with joy now, had ~till strength and sense and
affection~ enough left to run to a spring hard by, and dip up
his hat full of water, and the next instant he was kneeling
with it by the side of his mistress, to bathe her hands.
"Who is she'?" "Where did she come from'?" "What
is her name'?" "Who is the lady'?" "Do you know her,
sir'?" asked some of' the officers, crowding around with offers
of assistance.
"This lady is my wife, gentlemen! Air! air, if you
please !" exclaimed Archer Clifton, waving them off, and
giving his sole attention to Catherine.. '~Kate !"
The sound of that thrilling voice-the clasp of those thril-
hug arms, had power to call back her spirit from the confines
of the invisible world. Her pale, ~pale eyelids, quivered.
* "Kate !" he exclaimed again, raising her higher upon his
breast.
A shuddering sigh convulsed her bosom-her languid eyes
enclosed.
"Kate !"
"Yes, Kate!" she~ echoed, nodding her head with that
quick, nervous, spasmodic gesture common to her.
"And why have you done this thing'? Why have you
placed yourself en scene like a third-rate opera dancer'?"
She raised her fading eyes to his face, pleadingly, mur-
inuring-
"Your wishes-the reprieve !"
"Well, what of that'?" Was there no one to bring it
but yourself'?"
Too feeble to enter upon the long explanation required,
she only shook her head, murmuring at intervals-
"Forgive-forgive-I could not see him die. Patience,
patience-indeed, I will not trouble~' you, love,-T will go
away again, far away! Maybe God willet me die !"
The last words were breathed forth in a long, deep sigh,
and she sank away again into insensibility.
Poor Jack, kneeling by her side, bathed her hand with the
water he had brought, and with his tears that fell like rain.
Major Clifton laid her head down upon the green sward,
and using to his feet, addressed the officer in comiwrnd,
saying-
"Sir, I am a prisoner of war, as you know. Yet, my wife
is in a~ dying state here, and I wish to convey her to a place'
of safety and repose."

220

44
4'

4 44
44
.~ .~
44


$22

-THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

V
,~Y*,*
$4
(
VA

223

" Major'Clifton will consider himself on his parole, and
command any assistance we may be able to render him or his
heroic wife," said Captain -, at the same time showing
him a note from General Ross to that effect, which had been
folded in with th~e pardon.
"I think, sir," added the officer, " that there is a farm-
house near here, belonging to a planter of the name of
Greenfield, where your lady would be hospitably received,
and well taken .care of; perhaps you had better send your
servant thither to boi-row a carriage." .
Thanking the officer for his civility and good advice, Major
Clifton immediately acted upon it by dispatching Jack to the
house, while he himself supported Catherine until the arrival
of the carriage. He then placed her in it, and she was
driven slowly to " Greenwood." Here -she was kindly re-
ceived by the planter's wife- and sisters, who tenderly un-
dressed her and put her to bed. A physician was summoned,
who, when he arrived and looked at her and felt her pulse,
and heard the circumstances, pronounced her insensibility to
be not a swoon, but a trance-coma-the result of excessive
fatigue of mind and body. He said that such stupors, if
prematurely broken, might end in convulsions and mad-
ness-or if' left, too, to themselves,, might terminate in
death ; that her state was exceedingly critical, and that her
rest was by no means to be broken, unless there was a per-
ceptible failure in her pulse, in which case the stimulants
and restorative he should leave must be applied and admin-
istered, and -himself instantly summoned. And so he left
her.
Hiavin'gseen Catherine thus at rest, and having received
many assurances from her gentle-hearted hostess that every
care and; attention should be given her, Major Clifton took
leave, and returned to render himself up to his captors, who
were just about to return to their ship. .He went with them.
And when they had arrived-on board ,the Albion, an agree- -
able surprise awaited him. A gentleman in the uniform of
an 'American general stood upon the deck, attended by a flag
of truce, and Major Clifton immediately recognized Colonel
(now General) 'Conyers, who instantly advancedset  hm,
and shaking hands heartily, exclaimed-       methm
" You did .not expect to find me here?~ I have come
concerning the arrangement of, a %hange of prisoners. Co
lonel Lithgow, of his Britannic Majesty's Regiment,

V ~

ii

9

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

and taken pi-isoner by our people in the same -engagement in
which you fell into the hands of the enemy, is now offered in
exchange for yourself."
"Yes, si, said Captain -   , advancing towar-ds them,
"and I am exceedingly happy to say that an exchange has
-been effected, and to Kongratulate you on your restoration to
liberty."
Major Clifton bowed deeply, and requested the use of a
boat to leave the ship.
" Nay-yourself and General Conyers will stay and dine-
with us ?" asked Captain.
But Major Clifton, thanking him for his invitation, and
also for much kindness and attention received during his so-
journ as a captive %among them, declined remaining longer,
and repeated his request for a boat.
"Oh, mine is here at your service. I am going ashore
with yous of course," said General Conyers.
" I beg your pardon, sir ! the boat you came in has been
taken by Captain Fairfax, who has gone ashore with it."
" Ah, true!"
" Captain Fairfax ?" asked Archer Clifton.
a"Yes, my friend, Captain Fairfax. Frank accompanied
me hither in search of yourself. Some news .pf vital import-
ance he had to communicate, which he did not impart to me.
lie could not wait for your return at all, so he went ashore
in search of you. lie would have found you sooner if he
had waited here, which proves the truth of the old proverb-
'Most haste, least speed."
" The boat is manned, sir," said a lieutenant to Major
Clifton.
General Conyers and himself then took leave of the Brit-
ish officers, entered the bo-at, and were rowed swiftly to the
land.- As soon as they hadl stepped, upon the beach, and
found themselves alone, Conyers -grasped the hand of Clifton,
and shaking it cordially, said-
" So, you have won noble Catherine ? Well, I congratu-
late you with a whole heart, though you have won her from
my hopes."
" Won her from your hopes ?i"
" Ay, Arche I loved her."
"Loved her? "
"Yes4and love her !"
"Lve her ?"


I
if
K
A

"Yes, and shall always love her, highly and purely though,
as a saint loves an angel."
"You'astonish me !"
J' And I' shall astonish you more, perhaps. Three several
times in one year I wooed her, and three several times was
my suit rejected by her."
"J*say you astound me! Your suit rejected by Catherine ~
Yours? Can this be possible ~"
"Possible as that I was nearly driven to despair by her
rejection."
Major Clifton threw his hand to his brow and gazed at the.
speaker in amazement, while he compared the claims of Gene-
ral Conyers with his own. General Conyers, with his haughty
and powerful connection in town and country; his immense
unincumbered estates; his high jnilitary rank; and last, not
least, his eminently handsome person, accomplished mind,
and graceful 'address ;-General Conyers, in every social,
official, and personal dignity, highly superior. And himself,
with his limited circle; his debt-encumbered property; his
medium post in the army; and his very moderate share of
personal attraction, and he exclaimed again-.
"Catherine reject you ?"
"Three distinct times, most firmly."
"Why, upon what possible pretext could she have done
so ~"
"Ay, ~sure enough! Upon what possible pretext 'f"
smiled General Couyers, ruefully. "Upon the plea that she
did not love me, save only 'as a sister or a spirit might.' I
'won her respect, esteem, 'friendship, all but her love! She
was a fraiik, high-winded, pure hearted girl. She gave me
"the ~greatest proof of confidence she could possibly. give, and
at the. same instant struck the only death-blow to dangerous.
'hopes that she could possibly strike, she told 'me that she
could never be ~more than a4aithful fri
loved anoffier."                 end to me, for that she
Major Clifton started, and grasped the arm of his com-~
panion,. but instantly recovering his sclf~~control, h
'in a calm voice-.                          e inquired,
"And who did 'she say Was that other ~"
"Nay, she never breathed his name. She could not have
done that. She was trying to do me good when she infori~ed
me. I remember well her sweet and 'hoW looks and words.
At first she flushed and paled, hesitating between generous

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

impulse and womanly~reserve; and then as principle rose
above instinct, her face glowed with an expression such as I
have seen in the pictures of St. Agnes ;-a warm,'high, holy
look, an inspired look, such as might well become the coun-
tenance of the Virgin Martyr, and she said, speaking to her-
self, 'There is no good reason why I should not reveal any
secret of my heart, if the revelation can help any other soul
to tranquillity and strength.' Tl~en to me-' Listen: Yout
are not the only sorely disappointed one. Who,' indeed, is
joyous that is past childhood ~ I, tao, have missed life's
crowning joy-the love of one I love. But what then ~ If
we cannot have joy in this life of probation, there yet re-
mains duty, and the peace its performance yields ; 'and friends,
and the cheerfulness their society gives; and God, and the
divine comfort His service brings.'"
"She said that ~ She said that ~" groaned Clifton.
"Yes. You seem strongly moved, Archer V'
"I 'am! I am! You do uot know with how much reason!
But go on! Tell me n~ore of her."
"She never breathed the name of him she loved to my
ear, yet I knew her Whole secret. I had suspected it months
before. Shall I tell you why ~"
"Yes! Goon!"
"It was at the Governor's levee, where I was first intro-
duced to her, and where you met after a long absence; I was
present at the casual meeting. I~beheld the strong emotion
that she could not conceal. Some hours after that I was
near her, when unobserved by all except myself, and uncon-
scious of my presence also, she 4Shanced to witness the
reconciliation between yourself and your chosen bride. I
saw her face grow paler than death, aRd then the meek head
bow in submission, and the iricek hands fold as in prayer,
and the meek voice murmur low and fervently, 'Thank God!
Oh! God help me tp say that sincerely.' I had been in-
terested in her before; 'but I saw that, and I loved her from
that'hour, the' sweet, the lovely, the Madonna-like maiden!
I loved her with an affection as free from passion as it was
from selfishness, and as free from both as 'her own pure,
saintly nature. And I offered her my heart and hand, asI said.
And she sweetly and 'gratefully declined them, as I might
have known before ;--unveiling the sanctuary of her price-
less heart, to quiet me forever with the revelation of another
master there."
VOL. II.-I~

224            THE CURSE OF CLIFTONA

225'

224


'22~           TEE CURSE OF CLIFTON,

* "Oh, God! Oh, God !" said Clifton.
"What disturbs you so, Archer ?"
"Nevey mind! Never mind! And so, rejecting you as
a lover, she won you as a friend ?"
"For life and death and eternity. Yes."
"That was a triumph! Rejected lovers seldom become
friends! That was a rare triumph! IBut then Catherin~ is
a rare woman.. -
"Very rare!"
, ,,
"Truly n~ k-named 'Maria Theresa.
"Catheri ' 'Maria Theresa?' By whom? By some
one, I suppose, who, recognizing her strong, practical mind,
~ees nothing better in her nature-sees not the pure heart
and the lofty spirit of infinitely higher value than that."
"Heaven bless you, .Conyers, for your good opinion of
Catherjne. But I wish to put a case to you, only an imagi-
nary case, you observe, Conyers ?"
"Yes! Well?"
"Suppose you had married Catherine ?"
"That is very imaginary! Well ?"
"And suppose that you had discovered her to be unwor-
thy of your good opinion ?"
"Impossible! It could not have happened, because she
could' not have been unwoxthy."
"But suppose that her unworthiness had been made mani-
fest to you beyond all chance of mistake or doubt ?"
"11-n it! Don't let me be profane. It couldn't have
been made manifest to me, I tell you~ Could any person or
anything1demonstrate to me that the sun darkened the earth,
or ~he clouds dropped powdered charcoal, or that fig trees
bore thorns? There are some things that can't be proved,
because they can't exist !"
~Major Clifton thrust his hand in his boso~n, and drew
thence a letter in &amp; gray envelope, and handing it to General
Conyers, asked- -
"Do yQn-know that hand-writing ?"
* "Certainly, I do.'~
"Who8e is it3"
"Mr~. Catherine Clifton's."
"Are you sure ?"
"Pooh! Of course I am! I am familiar with the wri~
~ting!"
"Could you swear to it ?"

"You arc very emphatic in this matter! Let me see tho
letter again. Yes, I could swear to it."
"And now will you do me the favor to read it !"
General Conyers, with some hesitation, began to read, but
before getting half through, the blood rushed to his brow,
and crushing the letter in his hand, he hurled it beneath his*
feet, and setting his heel upon it, ground it into the earth.
"What do you think of it, now ?" asked Clifton, bitterly.
"Think of it !-it is an infernal forgery! If any man had
brought me that letter, and said that Catherine wrote it,
I should have treated it just as I have done now, to show my
.contempt for the forgery; and then I should have raised it
with my sword's point, and thrust it down his throat, to cx-
press my loathing of the forger or the accomplice."
"And yet, just now you could have sworn to the hand-
writing."
"]~eath! Yes! And for which presumption I earnestly
beg ~onr pardon, Clifton !"
"And now you are quite as much convinced that she did
not write it. How can you explain 1~his ?"
"Why, simply thus-that the whole of Catherine's noble
life is a refutation of the'siander contained in that letter. Sir!
it is a d-d forgery! Look at 'it! See how easy the hand
is imitated! Give me a pen and ink, and' though I have not
much talent for imitation, I will produce you a fac simile of
Catherine's hand-writing. 'I reject, I beg your forgiveness
for saying that that was Catherine's. I said so, because it
strongly resembled hers, and I did not know the vile pur-
port! Oh, I trust, Clifton, 'that you signally punished the
conspirator who wrote it! I can well believe thai you nei~
ther eat, slept, said your' prayers, ~vent to church ~r into her
presence, until you had pursued the forger, and punished him
or her to the utmost extent of the Ia~!"
They had, now arrived at Greenwood, an4 Major Clifton,
without replying, conducted his companion into the 'house,
and introduced him to ~he planter's f~iaily~ On inquiry con-
cerning"the state 4 Catherine, he 'learned that sh~ stiW ~lay
without any 0ign of life, except the raint beating of her heart.
Leaving 'General Conyors with hi~ host, he went up into his
wife'e chamber. He wished~o bi~~ alone with her. There is
something, in a sound faith that always makes a strong ix~-
pression. The deep, thorough earnestness of confidence~ in
Catherine's pei~fcct integrity, exhibitedd by Conye~s, had

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.           227


228            TUE CUUSE 0F CLIFTON.                                                                    ~2P

shaken Clifton's firm convictions of her guilt to their uproot~
ings, as the whirlwind shakes the oak. Ay, and he was
shaken-literally shaken, terribly shaken, by strong passion,
as he exclaimed to himself-
"Oh, would to Heaven 'I could think as he does! I am
no longer a youth, credulous of happiness, but if I could only
thoroughly believe in Kate, as he does-or once see her inno-
cerice proved, it would fill my heart with joy." He entered
the charnb4r, and Went up to her bedside. There was a pallor
spread like death over her brow. CC But she was ~always so
pale," he said, in a voice tremulous with tenderness. So
still she lay, so profound was her repose, that her breathing
could not be seen or heard, until, alarmed, he stooped ancP
listened, and perceived that her respiration was deep, soft,
slow and regular. Her sleep was evidently necessary, health-
ful and recuperative. He stood and gazed at her sculptured,
marble-like face, as her head reposed upon the pillow. He
had fever seen that noble countenance in the deep repose of
sleep before. No, and waking, it had always been disturbed
by care, or grief, or anxiety, or bashfulness. Now the noble
face was in perfect rest. The majesty of truth sat enthroned
* upon the fine, broad, open forehead, with its eyebrows arched
far apart, and more elevated, because the eyelids were shut
down, wrth their~ dark lashes lying long and still upon the
pale cheeks. And the beauty of goodness lay folded in every
curve of the lightly-closed and perfect lips. She looked a
queen in repose-
"A Queen ot'noble Nature's cipwnino~"
whom it were disloyalty to~ suspect, and treason to accuse.
A~ ~je gazed, the earnest faith of Conyers came back with
t~*iYold power to his soul. He more than half abjured his
Te~il convictions, and a flood of tenderness came over his
heart. There was no one to see his weakness-not even
her-.the sleeper. lie went and closed the door, and re-
turned and lcneeled b her side. He took her hand, and
bowed his head over ii From that trance-'sleep there was
no fear, because there was no possibility of Waking her yet.
lie jdssed and pressed that hand with sorrowful passion-
murmuring-" For once-for this time, I will, I will believe
you true, my own dear Catherine. My whole nature starves;
it starves, and withers, and dies for a perfect reconcilia-
tion, a ~erfcet union with you. Oh, for~ oi~ce, let' soul and

rUE CURSE OF CLTh'TON.

heart be satisfled-19t me steel my mind ~ag~ainst the thought
of evil, and fold you around with my love, and press you to
this still denied and hungering, perishing heart." And he
raised her in his arms, and folded her to his bosom, pressing
an ardent kiss upon her lips. That passionate kiss sent an.
electric shock through all her still life. A shnddering sigh
shook her bosom; her lips parted in a light, rosy smile;
color dawned upon her cheeks, and light beamed on her
brow. Alarmed, and remembering i~he physician's warning
that a premature awakening might be fatal, he ettutiously
laid her down again, and anxiously watched her eotmtenan&amp;e.
* She did not awake; nor ~did the light depart from her brow;
nor the color from her cheeks; nor the smile from her lips.
"flow she loves rue. Her soul as~well as her person is mine..
How she loves me, even in sleep-~-even in this trance-sleep,
with all her senses locked. How she loves me-my Kate!
my own! my wife! How she loves me-yet no more than
1 love her. Witness this worn frame of mine, that sorrow,~
like years, has aged! My own "
A light step upon the stairs, and a rap at the door, and
he hastened to open it. It was the farmer's little niece,
Susannah, who came to say that Captain Fairfax was in the
parlor, waiting to see Major Clifton. He~ turned back an
instant, to arrange the coverlet, gave a last glance at the
beloved face, and then followed the child, down stairs. The
staircase led directly down into the parlor, and as soon as he
had reached it, he saw Frank Fairfax, who immediately
hastened to meet hiin~, and-
"My dear Frank !"
"My dearest CliI'ton !"
Were the words of affectionate greeting interchanged,, as
they shook hands.
"Well, and so you have been married these ~wo years
nearly, and I have never had the opportunity of congratu-
lating you till now! 'Well, better late than never, though it
is always a mere form to wish a man joy' who has an excess of
it already! But,~indeed, you have the jewel of the world!
If you had only waited two years longer, until I had some-
what recovered the despair of my own awful bereavement, I
should have tried to dispute the prize with you-not that I
was in love with noble Catherine-I never was hut once in
*love, and I never sha1~1 be again~but~that I think her just
the most precious woman in the world. Nor am I alone ir~
19~

E29

228


40V             TII1~ CUR8~ O~' OLIt'TON.
that opinion. I have been in her neighborhood, looking fom
her, before I came down here to find you, and there I found
that 4e was deeply venerated by her people, and honored,
5~ncerely honored, by all the proud, county aristocrats. And
General Ross, the 'gallant General Ross, 'second only to
W~t1it~gton bimself..-......' we had to see Admiral~ Cockburn
about'this exchange of prisoners, and met~ General Ross in
his company....j wish you had heard the brave and generous
Ross speak of your wife. As soon as he knew what we had
come for, and recognizedd your name and hers, he t~iok Ad-
mWaI Cockbur~ aside, and talked with him in the most em-
phatic manner,. seeming to insist upon something.(and be it
known that General Ross exercises a considerable influence
over Cockburn, and has even restrained him from greater
excesses in Washington than were committed there, obliging
him to spare private dwellings, etc.)-.-and then they came
back to' where we stood, and the arrangement was effected.
And to General Ross's admiration of Catherine's character,
and to his generosity, I attribute the ease with which the
business was completed. 'Sir,' he said, at parting, 'had
your army at J3ladensburg been composed of men with spirits
equal to that of4 this heroic woman, your city of Washington
had not been taken.' But, where is noble Catherine, now ?"
"In' a deep sleep, or rather a trance-sleep, s~pperinduced
by the excessive toil and ~fatigue she has 'lately gone
through....."
"'Like a warrior taking his rest?"
"No-~.I wish you would not apply that hue, great as it is,
to her. ~he is not heroic, which is mascuhine~my Kate-
she is strong only through her affections, and ayery child in
timidity at other times. But, my dear Frank, glad as I am
to ~ee you, I wish to k'now..-.you have not told me the 'busi
'ness ~f vital importance,' which
companion in~ seeking me." Conyers says, made you his
The face xf Captain Fairfax suddenly clouded over; he
put his hand in his bosom, and then hesitating, said-.
~" You have seen in the papers the obituary notice of a dear
friend 2"
"No!. Who is it? I have no very dear friend, out of
this house', now-.-.whom do you mean ?"
"Mrs. Georgia Clifton is no more."
Major ~i1~lifton started back, and ga~ed at the speaker with
an expression of deep ~concern, exclaiming......

rilE CURSE OT QLI]i'TO~.          281
"No! Impossible! How could' that be ~ A woman in~
such fine health !"
"Death is always possible; at all times, and to all per-
sons.
"When, and where, and under what circumstances, did
she die? I am very sorry."
" She died a week since, at her house, in Richmond."
"I am very sorry. The cause of her death?"
"One of those virulent summer fevers prevalent in the city
just at this season. Her physicians think that hers was fa-
tally aggravated by the life of excitement she ~had led, and by
the friction of something that preyed upon her mind."
Frank paused, and Major Clifton kept his eyes fixed with
interest' upon his countenance. Frank sighed, and resumed-
"A few days before her death, she sent for me.. I went,
and found her laboring ulider great mental distress. She
seemed half disposed to make me a confidant'; but after much
painful hesitation, she reserved her secret, whatever it may
have been, and drew from beneath her pillow this letter,
which she gave me-exacting an oath, that after her death, and
not before-I would hand it to you with the seal unbroken.
She said that the whole future happiness of yourself and your
wife, was concerned in your receiving it. And then, with
many sighs and groans-for her eyes' seemed too dry for
tears-she let me depart.. I never , saw her again. A few
days after that, I heard she was dead."
"The letter ?~~you seem very much agitated, Clifton !"
"Here it 'is.
"With reason9! Give it me
And receiving the letter, Major Clifton hastened to the.
opposite end pf the ri~om and began to read it. It was ;the
confession of a guilty and dying wemnan. She wrote, that on
~ the borders of eternity there was no false seeming~ and no
false shame-that all human feelings were lost in remorse, in
terror, and in awe. Then she confessed her mad and guilty
passion for himself, and all the crimes into' which it had
te~npted~her; ~the slanders that had separated him and his
cousin Carolyn~the forged letter 'that had brought such
bitter sorrow to himself and Catherine. All was confessed
and~deplored. Finally she supplicatedd his forgiveness, as he
hoped to be.forgiven of God.
The subtle sel~-lov~ of a man can pardon .much in a woman
whose motive of action is a 4rong passion for himself. Great
U

4
1"
f
C; ~

#


~82            THE CURSE OF OLIFTON.                                                                     2&amp;8

as her wickedness had been-great as the suffering it had
caused him, lie bore no malice to the dead Georgia. iRe even
after a tinie resolved to cover her sin from all eyes.-to bury
it in the grave with her. But merciful as he was in judging
Georgia-he was stern enough in condemning himself for so
readily believing his innocent wife to be guilty. And he di-
vided his broken exclamations between severe self-upbraid..
ings, and r~joking~ at her full acquittal-Frank watching him
with curiosity and strong interest.
"Oh! fool! fool! fool !"
"What is it, Clifton? Who's a fool ?"
"Oh! fool! thrice 8odden fool that. I've been! Thank
Heaven. Oh! thank Heaven !"
"Thank IThaven that he's a thrice sodden fool! That's
new cause~ for thanksgiving! What's it all about. Archer?'
"Oh! folly! blindness! niadness! Heaven be praised!
~Oh heaven be' praised !"
"Heaven be praised f~r folly, blindness, and madness.
Well 'Heanre~i be praised for ull things! flut what the deuce
is it, Clifton ?"
"Mole! mole! Oh, God, how grateful~~~how iejoiced I
am!"
"Oh, Lord, how gratof~il ~nd rejoiced lie is, that he's a
mole! ~Clifton !-What 'the mischief! Don't keep on striding ~.
about, talking to yourself, with ypnr band lapped to your
forehead, like a walking gentleman in a melo-draigia, which
you always .detested! Besides, you know there i~s no legiti..
mate dramatic reason for a married hero t~ stride about and
obstreperate, excepting only jealousyand you're not jealous'?
cease starting and vociferating, an4 tell toe the
4~ause..~-.' the 'CAUSE, niy soul!"'
"ffi~ank! I've been a' fool !"
"That's no news."
"And a brute !"
"Who doesn't k~iow that ?" 0
"And a cursed villain."
"'Nay, "I wouldn't hear your enemy 'say that."'
"Oh'! 'Frank, J?~ank, what shall I do ?"
"'I am sure I don~t knoir, unless you' tell nh~ the premises
of action."
"I cannot, Frank! Dear Frank, Icannot. The memory
of the 'dead shouldd be sacred; so should the differences
Qf-~-. I cannot tell you, Frank."

"Hist! Here's the doctor."
Old Doctor Shaw at this moment passed through the par-
br, on his way to visit his patient.
Major Clifton accompanied him up stairs to her chamber.
When they reached her bed-chamber, he noticed that the
~rnfle had departed from her lips, and the color from her,,
cheeks. The old physician put on his spectacles, and looked
scrutinizingly at her face and hands, laid his hand upon her
forehead and bosom, to get the temperature, felt her pulse,
felt her hands said feet, and finally pronounced her to be
doing very well.
"May she not be wakened up, sir '~" asked Clifton, almost
selfish in his impatience for a reconciliation.
"By no means. She must be let alone-nature is her
best physician, and the sleep she prescribes, her best medi-
mue.
"But, sir, I have something of vital importance to com-
'municate to her !" persisted Clifton.
"Sir, it may be of vital importance to you, but it would
be of fatal importance to her, should you rouse her to com-
municate it, whatever it is."
Major Clifton was obliged to restrain his eagOrness. The
physician departed, leaving only one simple direction :-that,
as soon as she awoke she should be put in a '~varm bath.
Archer Clifton was then summoned down stairs to join the
family at supper. There he found ajively,' witty, eccentric
personage, who was introduced to him as "Our neighbor,
Mr. Perry." And when the ~'evenin~ was over, this gentle-
man to~k an opportunity of drawing the officers aside, and
confidentially informing them that the ladies of Greenwood
were very much crowded with the company of some relatl6us
that were staying with them just 'then, and that although they
would certainly press their guests to remain all nightt' the
latter could not do so without putting their kind h6stess to
much inconvenience; he concluded ~by offering, and heartily
pressing upon the gentlemen the accomniodations of his own
house. Thanking Mr. Perry for his kindness, they accepted
his profferediio5pita~itYand prepared to accompany him home.
~Major Clifton went up st~irs,~ intending only to press a
patting kiss upon the lips of his now doubly beloved Cathe-
rine, but when he reached her chamber, he seemed to forget
every thing but her, and sat down by her bed~id~, watching
the sweet, pale, majestiO countenance in ite death;like repose.

4

4
f

THE OTJI~SE OF CLIFTON.

4

2&amp;8


234              ~IIE OUR~E OF CLIFTON.
Ay! gaze on, Archer Clifton, for when you have once
turned your eyes away, sharp heart-pangs must be yours ere
you look upon that sculptured face again!
He remained until summoned by Mr. Perry-then pressing
a fond kiss upon the calmed lips, he departed with a tacit
promise to be at her side early in the morning.
In the morning!
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
CONCLUsION.
So trial after trial past,
Wilt thou fhll at the veryJast,
Breathless, half in trance,
With the thrill of a great deliverance,
Into ow~r arms forever more-
And thou shalt know these arms once curled
About thee-what we knew betbre-
How love is the only good in the world.
Henceforth be lov~'d as heart can love,
Or brain devise, or hand approve.-BROwNXNG.
TIIE confidential communication made by Mr. Perry, was
probably a ruse on the part of that eccentric gentleman, for
the purpose of obtaining . the assistance of the officers in
"making a~ night of it" over at his-house. Certainly, on
reaching the home of their host, they found company await-
ing their arrival, and they passed the evening in the jolly
festivity of country hos~itahity. A luxurious supper was
served late at night, from which they did not separate until
the ~ small hours." Thus many of the g~i'ests overslept
themselves the next morning, which delayed the family break-
fast several hours. Therefore it was after ten o'clock, before
Major Clifton,~er~r much against the will of his odd enter-
tainer, bid him farewell, and set out to return to G~reenwood.
It was eleven o'clock when he reached the farm-house. The
ladies were all in their sitting-room, engaged in their various
domestic occupations of netting, sewing, knitting, etc.,
when he entered, and gave them the morning salutation.
And then-
"How is Mrs. Clifton this morning, ladies? Can 1 see
her immediately ?"
"Mrs. Olifton, sir !" said the eldest lady, looking up in
surpi'ise. "Mrs. Clifton is gone, sir. Did you not know it ~"

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.            235
"Gone 'i" repeated Archer Clifton, incredulously.
"Yes, sir."
"Gone!" he reiterated, in amazement.
"Yes, sir. We certainly thought that you were aware
of her departure."
"Most certainly not! Gone! When? how? excuse me,
madam, but where has she gone ?"
"We do not know, sir, indeed, since you cannot tell us.
We thought that she had gone to join you, at Mr. Perry's.
We were very sorry, but-"
"How long since she left? How did she go? Pardon my
vehemence, dear madam."
"We partake of your anxiety, sir. Mrs. Clifton left us
about four hours since, at seven o'clock, immediately after
breakfast. She went away on the horse that was brought
here yesterday as her own. She left us very much against
our arguments and persuasions. - We would gladly have de-
tained her."
"Gone! Good Heavens, was she able to go."
"No, sir, assuredly she was not."
Archer Clifton sank into a chair, exclaiming-
"Pray, tell me, dear madam, the circumstances of this
departure, and all that occurred from the time I left, until
she went away.
"Why, sir, after you left, she continued in the same deep
sleep until nearly nine o'clock~ when she. began to 8how
symptoms of awakening. I sent out and ordered the hot
bath to be prepared, and ~at down to watch her. As she
drew near to consciOusness, her face lost that look of pro-
found repose, which had previously marked it, and began to
assume an expression of suffering. Her brows folded, and
her lips sprang apart and quivered7as with a spasm of sharp
pain, and her eyes flared open suddenlff, and she was~awake,
I asked her how she felt, but she shook her head, and closed
her eyes again, and shut her teeth tightly, like one trying to
bear silently some sharp, inward pain. The bath was. then
prepared by the bedside, ~nd we began to get her rea4y for
it'; but on the slightest attempt to move her, she groaned
so deeply, that we scarcely dared to lift her for some minutes,
I knew then how it wae ;-that her. muscles were stiff and
painful, from the severe exertion of such a long equestrian
journey. And I knew also. thiit the hot bath would relieve
her;. and the doctor's directions had been peremptory, so we

-I,
1
4,,
1'
7 '4

N t


236            TH~ CURSE OF CLIFTON.

tried again, and placed her in the bath. And very soon the
*          - hot water seemed to alleviate her sufferings. And when we
- ,         put her comfortably to bed again, she thanked us very
sweetly. I asked her how she found herself. She answered,
'Better'-adding, that she thought, by her hard exercise,
*           she had hurt some part of her chest or side, which had -given
her great pain, but which was now partially relieved."
"Did she seem very much better ~ Was her voice strong
in speaking V'
as "No, it was very weak and faint, and frequently broken,
by some inward pain, as I said." /
"Go on, dear lady.".
"We brought her a cup of tea and a plate of toast; of
both of which she partook slightly. It was then after nine
o'clock, and she begged that she might not disturb us-that
we would retire to bed-and said that she was better, and
would try to sleep again. She then composed herself to rest,
and the girls all left the room. I remained watching until
I thought she slept, and then I lay down to rest on the other
bed in the same room., I think she passed a good night, for
I oculd not divest myself of uneasiness upon her account, and
so I could not get to sleep until after midnight, and during
all that time I never heard her move, or sigh. After I did
*           get to sleep, however, I slept very soixndly, till near six
o'clock. And when I awoke, what was my surprise, to see
her up and dressed, as for a 'journey. She looked very pale
and ill and -sorrowful, and in fastening her habit, she fre..
quently stopped and leaned against the bed-post for support.
I atose sicklyy and questioned her wishes, and begged her
'to lie down again. But she only waved h~r hand against
me, with a mute, imploring gesture. I expostulated with
her, but arguments and persuasions 'were alike in vain-she
only. answered~, -' I must go."'
-" Oh, Heaven!- -Where, where did she wish to go ?"
"We do not know. She was not communicative, and we
did not like to question her."
"Forgive' me, dear madam. Indeed I fear my question-
ings must appear almost rude, but my great anxiety must be
my excuse."                  -         -
"Y6ur anxiety is very na~ aral, sir, and we share it." -
"Did she know that I was in the neighborhood ~ Did any
one inform her ?"
"We cannot tell whether she knew of your presence here.

We did not tell her, for, as I said, she made no inquiries,
and there was a reserve about her despair that~shut itself in
from all interference. Indeed it would be scarcely doing
justice to her look of deep sorrow, to say that she was the
most hopeless looking human being I ever s~w in my life.
She seemed like one who had seen her last hope go down."
"Merciful God !"
"We used every method, except force, to prevent her
leaving us, though we were impressed with the idea that she
was going to you. And after her departure, in. consulting
together, we were half sorry that-we had not essayed gentle
coercion, for we all suspected that the lady's reason was
clouded."
"Great God! I have driven her to madness-perhaps to
death !" thought Archer Clifton, but then he exerted self"
control enough -to conceal the depths and extent of his
anxiety, and asked "What road did she take ~'"
"The North-west road, sir, which branches off towards
Mr. Perry's a quarter of a mile up, which was one of our
reasons for supposing that she had gone to join you.
Taking a hasty leave of the family, Major Clifton remounted
his horse, and rode furiously up the road, meeting General
Conyers and Frank, who had lagged behind Qfl their return
home. Stopping them, he communicated what had happened,
but concealed his worst fears, and merely said that he pre-
sumed that Catherine had left for her Virginia home, in igno-
rance of his liberation, and his presence in the, neighborhood,
and that he wished, if possible, to -overtake her, before she
had proceeded far upon her road. Frank immediately turned
rein to accompany him, wlAle General Covyers, with many
expressions of regret and concern, -took leave of them, to
return to Greenwood, and explain th~ir absence.
The road lay for many miles through a dense forest, and
they galloped onward for hours without meeting a single
traveler or seeing a solitary house. Near the, Qutsklrts of
the forest they came upon a party of stragglers, whom they
judged to be deserter~ from the British army. IBut these
men, when questioned, gave cautious and unsatisfactory an~
swers-sulkily- insisting that no lady riding alone had passed
that way. They next' inquired of- some field laborers, who
were stacking grain a- little- farther on. They replied that a
lady in a dark riding-dress, riding on a bay horse, had
passed that way about two hours before, but~not alone; a
VOL. II.-20

I
/,
~ '-I
I
1k

THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.          237


288            THE CURSE OF CLIFTON.

boy, mounted on a white mare, attended her. Perhaps this
was Catherine, and her attendant some chance passenger.
*They questioned more particularly, and the description given
'answQred to her personal appearance. They asked what road
she had taken, and being told "straight ahead," they set off
in a gallop.. A few miles further on they again inquired,
and were told that such a lady, attended by a boy, had passed
about an hour before. Full of hope, they put spurs to their
horses .and hurried on, congratulating tliemselve
were gaining on her' so fast.              s that they
At length they reacdThd a school-house in the woods,
where, tied to a fence, they saw the bay horse, with a side-
saddle, and a white pony, with a boy's saddle. iDisniobnting
quickly, Captain Fairfax hastened to the school-room door,
and inquired of the master to whom the animal belonged ~
"To Mrs. Jones, who has just brought her son to school,"
answered the teacher, full of surprise at the question.
And there indeed, sat "Mrs. Jones" and young Hopeful,
looking as they considered, such investigation into their
property ye impertinent, to say the least.
Disappoint d, Frank returned to Major Clifton with this
explanation, a d they looked at each other. in chagrin and
perplexity-.M jor Clifton with great difficulty maintaining
his self-posses ion, and concealing the dreadful forebodings
that 'ovarshad' wed his mind. They were no~v thirty miles
from Greenwo d, and the ~sun was getting low.
"I do no see anything better t~ do~ Archer, than to
keep on w each Washington City. No doubt you will
sep r t~iere, if you do not overtake her before."
A am' putting whip to their horses, tl~y galloped on,
passin the great belt of forest, and entering upon the bare
'lowlands, ~ng south of the city. It was late in the night
when they descended the road leading to the Anacostic
bridge. They found that the bridge had been 'destroyed,
and they expertenced~ much difficulty and delay before find-
ing a. boat ~to take them across. They entered the ruined
and blackened city a little after midnight.. At that hour
little opportunity of search was afforded, aud that little wa~
fruitless.. They 'ha4 much 'trouble in finding ,a night's
lodging in the desolate city, but at length obtained indiffer-
ent shelter,' and retired, with the determination to pursue
their~ investigations in the morning. At an early 'hour they
aros~, and wezit~ out, making inquiries. in every direction, ibut

in vain. 'No one had seen or heard of the missing lady,
though many cheerfully suggested that she had fallen into
the hands of the British soldiery, who were on their retteat
through the low counties. Strongly impressed with the idea
'that she must be in or near Washington, they were unwilling
to abandon their search, but remained in the city all day, and
through the next night, before resigning all hope of finding
her there. Even upon the second morning, Major Clifton
and Captain Fairfax were divided in their opinion as 'to
whether they had better go back to St. Mary's, or' go on
to IR . Major Clifton, full of the darkest presenti-
ments, was disposed to turn back. Captain Fairfax, on the -
contrary, full of hope and confidence, urged his. friend to
p'ush forward. While they were 'debating, General Conyers
rode up and joined thorn. He said he had but that morning
reached the city, and had been an hour in search of them.
In answer to their anxious questions, General Conyers in-
formed them that up to late the night before, no news had
been heard of Mrs. Clifton~that she evidently was not in the
neighborhood he had just left. He seemed grieved and'
alarmed to find that they had not yet overtaken Catherine,
but expressed a strong conviction' that she must be on her
way home. He advised them 'to pursue the~journey, and
regretting. that peremptory duty called him to an interview
with the Secretary of War, and prevented his bearing the~ni
company, took leave, and rode away-turning'back once to
beg that as soon as they had found' Catherine, they would
Write to him at Washington, and let him know. Major Clif'~
ton and Frank procured fresh horses, and leaving their own,
set forward on their anxious jofrrney.
The gloomiest forebodings darkened the mind of Archer
Clifton. There was one scene ~eve(present to his mental
vision-where, at the end of her 'dreadful journey, fainting
from incredible exertion,- Catherine 'had' fallen into his arms,
and he had received her with a harsh and stei~n'rebuke' for
making a scene :-6ne look and tone of hers, that 'filled his
soul with' remorse and terror prophetic of doom-her last de-
spairing ga~i~-.her list despairim~g tones, befor&amp;' she sank
into insensibility. How plaintively 'they echoed throtigh 'his
heart-" Patience, ~patience, patience-Klndeed 'I 'will
not trouble you, lov~-i 'Will go away'-.Maybe God
will let me die." Would he ever forget those words, that
voice, that gaze of unutterable but ni~ek ~despafr ~

V
I.

7
I'

3

TIlE CURSE OI~ CLIFTON.              ~ 89

}


240

TII1~ CURSE QP CLIFTON.

4 -
- ~

"I have broken her heart. I have killed her. I have
killed her. Woman's nature could not live through what IL
have driven her through! Poor, poor girt I-so bitterly
slandered ~--so cruelly tortured! Persecuted unto death-
or worse-unto madness! And where is she now? Per-
haps the-waves-of the Patuxent roll, over her cold bosom-
calmed at last; or perhaps she lives-a mad and houseless
wandcrer~ but I will not believe this, I[ will not believe it!
She umy be dead; she must he broken-hearted but not mad!
All-Merciful God-!-not mad! She way -be dcad-~and that
would be just, for it would secure her happiness and my own
retribution, in the only way that. both could ye secured.
perh~ps.               -
fax.- a -hint of this pr9phetio despair was 1~reathed to -Fair-
Clifton's indomitable pride, regnant even over this
anxiety; forbade- the communication -of his -remorse and alarm,
and the great reason he had for- both. - Yet Frank observed
and tried to cheer his friend's deep gloom;  -  .   -
- "Come, rOuse, yourself, Archer, we are nearing L-.---..--,
and shall be at Whjte Cliffs by night-fall, and who but Mrs.
Clifton will meet us at -the door, with her gentle smile and
gentle welcome, and 'then shall--ne, not all.speud a jolly even-
big, laughing -over our eups of tea at the fanious wild-goose
chase we have had ?" But little effect had Frank's~words on
his drooping fell~w~ tr~weler. Only as they drew -near-White
Cliffs his depression -rose into feverish- excitement. Arrived
at ~ they inquired if Mrs. -Clifton bad passed through
there, and were inforxKied that she had- sot. It - was long
a~f, night-fall that they reached White Cliffs. Here the
- terrified house servants, roused -up from thehi ~leep~nswered -
t~ all inquiries upon -the stibject, that- -they had not seen or
h-ear&amp;fronl. their mistress since -shaleft to go to Washington.
Ilenny pushed foremost of all to inquire about her "dear
m~st~ss~nd ~brotber Jack." But -with a -gesture of despera-
tion, Major Clifton - sent her off -nns~tisffed,- -and turned an -
agonized look upon Frank. -- Fairf~x wa~ almost discouraged,
but, nevertheless,- -he answered that-silent -appeal - hopefully,
saying, "Oh! doubtless she will be home to-morrow,- Or the
next day, a~ farthest.- We - ought to have remen~bered -that
she had not recovered - from her -fatigue,, and - thaLshe would
probably take Iher own time in returning. Wa have -outridden
b9eyidently~"
l~'Xa3or Clifton - rejoined ;by a groan. -- He ordered refresh-

~~HE cuas~ o~' otrrmN.            ~4i
mnexits for his guest, and soon after attended him to his room,
and retired to his own, not to rest, but to walk about dis-
tractedly, and then he burst into Catherine's vacant chamber,
and threw himself down upon her empty ibed, in the very
anguish of bereavement. His long residence in the lowlands
of the Chesapeake, during the hot stunmer months, had pre-
disposed him to- illness. His long journey, under the burning
sun of August by day, and heavy dews of August by night,
fatigue and anxiety, loss of food and sleep, all conspired to
bring on the pernicious fever, and before moriling Archer
Clifton was tossing and raving in high delirium. Summoned
by the alarmed servants, Captain Fairfax waS early at his
bedside, and seeing his condition, dispatched a messenger
for the, family physician. For many days, his state alternated
between delirium and stupor, and his life tottered upon the
edge of the grave. And in his delirium all his raving was
of Catherine-still Catherine-now adjuring her as his
Nemesis-.-now wooing her by the most tender epithets of af-
fection-calling her his "poor wouu~led dove,'Miis "broken-
hearted child," etc. Often he repeated plaintively her last
sorrowful , hopeless words.
At length the crisis of the disease came. The delirium
arose to frenzy. His spirit, as well- as his~fiesh, seemed to
be passing through the very fires of purgatory. lie raved
incessazitly-now of Carolyn, now of Georgia, then of his
mother, and always of Catherine-sometimes calling down
the bitterest imprecations up~n his own head, sometimes
severely reproaching Georgia, sometimes pleading his cause
with his mother, and always breaking off to soothe and coax
Catherine, as if she were circled in his arm.
At length the frenzy fairly exhausted itself, and he sank
into a comatose state, to drea4u of~ Catherine, tG see- visions
of Catherine, to feel her gentle pre~enoe, and healing~minis-
trations all abouthim. Then came ins~ensibility~which-lastad,
he did riot Ipiow how long, for all sense of time and place,
and exist0nce itself was blotted out..
And at last he awoke-the burning fever had gone. out
from- his. blood, anid~ a delicious coolness ran through air his
v6in~-.~-the terrible nervous excitement ~had subsided, -~ud. a
luxurious calm lay upon mind and body, until memory came
to disturb it, perbapato torture it. Ha- was experiencing the
delightful sensations of restoration and convalescence, and
his Physical stato alone, would have been sufficient cause for
2O*~


TII~ OEIRSE OF CLIFTON.
happiness, but for one aching, aching spot, one sharp'point
ofagony- as it were in his heart's core. And when~ the cry
in his bosom found its corresponding expression, the word
was" Catherine!" "Catherine!"
his, eyes had opened on his darkened chamber, where,
upon the hearth, gilinmered a feeble taper, that scarce~ sent
its weak rays beyond the edges of the hearth. lie knew it
must be near day, for the low, melodious detonating sounds
of early morning were echoing through the mountains. The
chamber seemed deserted-not if Catherine had been living
Would his sick bed have been so abandoned, he thought. J1e,
turned and groaned from the depths of his bosom-" Oh,
Catherine ! Catherine." His room was very dusky-lie
could not see the presence by his couch-but now gentler
than "tired -eyelids upon tired eyes" fell a soft hand upon
his brow.
Surely there was but one touch like that in the world!
A- new born, feeble hope was trembling at his heart, a
hope that he feared to aisturb lest it should die in dist~p-
pointment ;- that he dared scarcely submit to the t6st of oer~
tainty, lest that certainty should bring not- joy but despair.
At last, trembling with doubt, he murmured, "Am I dream-
ing, or,-dear-Kate, are you here'?"
"I am here," she answered softly.
" Darling, are you well'?"
"Very well-but yow are not well enough to talk yet,"
said Kate, gently.
"Dear Kate-how long have-you been home'?"
"Since tj~e day you were taken ill," replied Kate, at the
same -tim~ ~cirding his shoulders with one arn~, and raising
him, while with the other hand she placed a glass to his lips.
Whether the medicine were a potent sedative,-~or whether
heiKgentler touch had a soothing effect; or whether both these
influences acted upon him, I cannot tell~; but certainly the
nervous ~zcitement, just, raised by the discovery of her pre-
senOe, subsided into perfect calmness, and he lay with his
hand f~idedin-C&amp;therine's, until he fell asleep.
-When he awoke again it was sunrise, and his room looked
cheerful, and the family physician and Frank Fairfax sto6d
a1~ his bedside, with their. congratulations on his convale-
~c~nee. And while they staid, his --eyes were toying rest-
lessly around the room, in search of some one else.
And when they went- away, Catherine entered, bringing

I

I

TIL1~ OPILSE OF CLIFTON.

243

cold water, and came and~ sponged his head and hands. And
then she went out, and 'returned with his. light breakfast.
She sat upon the bed, supporting his head and shoulders
upon her bosom, while he ate. At last-~.
"Take it all away, clearest KatQ," he said, "and sit where
I can see you. It is you who are my -restorative."
When the ser~/ice was removed, and his pillows were ar-
ranged, and he was comfortably laid back upou them again,
he said..-.
"Dearest Kate, do you know that I know at last, how
deeply you have been injured'?" -
She stooped down to him saying, softly..-.-
"Please do not try to talk to-day. Yield to the inclina-
tion you have for sleep. It is so needful to you, and will
prove so restorative. And to-morrow, when you are better,
W9 can converse." -
He, smiled upon her, and laid his hand in hers, and while
she clasped it, fell asleep.
With a strong constitution lik4 t'hat of Archer Cljfton, the
convalescence is rapid. And C~itherine's presence, as he
said, was his true restorative.
The fourth morning from this, h~-~~as very 1much better,
and reclined comfortably upon his couch watching Catherine,
who moved quietly about the 'room setting things in- order.
He was much wasted by illness, and his face looked still
more sallow and haggard for the dark, dishevelled hair and
whiskers that encircled it; but his countenance wore an cx-
pression of subdued joy as he lay and watched Kate. At
last-

"Are you so much afraid that il-enny will disturb me~ by
rattling a cup and saucer, or jingling a teaspoon,- that - you
must do -all yourself '?- My devoted Kate, I am not so -ill.
Come and sit upon the' lounge by~me, and let me talk' -to
you;" he said, holding out hi~ arms.
- She went and sat upon the side of the couch, and' he en-
circled her with his-arm, while he said-
"My dear Kate, - do you know that I thought I had lost
you'?"
She raised her- eyes. in gentle wonder~
"Yes, I thought your great and undeserved' inisfortune&amp;
had- killed or maddened you."
"It was the approach of your illness that gave you such
dreadful thoughts," said Catherine, gently. - -


244              TIlE CURSE OP OLI1~TQN!.                                             Titli. CURSE OI~ OLIITON.          245

"Not entirely, dear Kate. It was your last words when
you fainted on my bosom-,-do you' remember them ?"
~' No-.I remember nothing very distinctly from the mo-
ment I threw myself in among the soldiery, and saW the
bayonets glittering around me, until I awoke and found m -
self in the farmer's house."
! don't you remember that in ansWer to my harsh
question-harsh Kate, because I was still in blindness-...you
answered-' Patience, patience patience'; indeed I will not
trouble you, love-I will go away; maybe God will let me
die."'
"Did I really use those words '?"
"Yes, and with such a look of hopeless resignation! I
thought that I had Lost you, Kate. I thought that you were
dead or mad, or at least had been driven from me, for you
'said so earnestly, 'I will gQ away?'"
'~DidIsaythat~ Idonotremember. ~utIsupposeI
meant that I would go h And, oh! do you think~-."
"Think what, dear Ka .'~
She paused, and her ~e.flushed. She had been about to
say, "Do you think tE     hing but your own will would.
have driven me from       But her old shyness returned
upon her stronger -than ever.
lie understood her, and told her so by the tightening
pressure of his arm.
"And, ~lear Kate, we could hear of you nowhere. You
were 1: ug in returning, Catherine.'?
"' Yes, when I started I was still very unequal to the re-
turn~ journey, I had weakened myself, and was obliged toride.
slewly~. Ai~d then I lost n~y way e9ming bao~-that was
lio* you missed me."
"4Dd does iny Kate know that I know now how deeply;
she~ 'has been wronged, and how nobly~sbe has borDe those'
wrongs-returning always goodf6r evil. And can she guess
the~remorse and sorrow o~ heart that hurried on this fit of ifl-
ness ?" Then suddenly overcome with emotion,'he;exclaimed
"Oh, my Gad; Catherine! ~can you imagine how I suffered~ ?"
"Yes, yes, indeed I knew it all! I learned all-.-~alh.~in.'
the raving o~ delirium~. Others thought it mere ravi
but I kneW.'~                                    rig,
"And do you know who forged that fatal letter, Kate V'
"Yes,"
"Who"was'it, then ?"

9

"You said, Mrs. Georgia.~~
"Yes. It was strange you fiever suspected that, Kate ."
"I did suspect it."
"You did suspect it !" exclaimed Archer Clifton, in sur-
prise..
"And you never breathed that suspicion !"
No, because I had no certain evidence against her. It
would have been wrong to have acted upon a mere suspicion."
"Just and upright in all things 1"..
"I only believed God's promises. I left my cause to
Heaven.
"And heaven has vindicated you, my ICate! You have
seen my sufferings since discovering how unjustly you had
been condemned; hut, oh, Kate, I suffered also when I madly
believed you guilty."
"I know you did. I do know you did.' It "was that that
gave point to my own sorrow. .
"When I cast you into the fir $ hile you were tortured,
I was scathed! 'I loved you too . etly not. to~suffer with-
you. You were too really a p. " yself, for me not to
suffer through you. I am 4 that Archbishop,
Kate-h--whose name I have forgotteuZ"'
"Cranmer ?"
"Yes, Craniner! See how our very unspoken thoughts
rush together, dear wife. Yes, Kate, I was thinking of Cran-'
mer, who thrust his offending hand into the flames, and held
it there, until it burned to cinders, and dropped off. Oh, my
Kate! was it his hand alone that suffered,. or did tiot h~s
whole body agonize with it?; And' so, my Catherine, wheu.
believing you unworthy, I thrust you into the fire, did I not
suffer through you iu~all, my nature? lAid! .1 did, Cathe-
rine!' Lift up the hair fr6iu my temples, and tell me what
you ~ee ?"
Kate lifted the clustering dark curls,. and answered-
"A few white hairs."
"The9tears. I made you sized, bleached them%. Kate."
She did not reply, except hy meeting his gaze with a look
of earnest affectiwi~ '~
He resumed-
"Yes-even then, when insanely I believed it possible for
you to be guilty~evel1 tken.-~--every look of anguish on your
brow wring my bosom~every tear you dropped, fell hot upon

4

2A6

29


248             THE CURSE OF 1~LIF~I~ON~'

my heart. Stoop down. Let me tell you one little simple
thing-1 sometimes saw.~-oh, I used to watch you so closely,
because I could not help it, Kate ;-when I was harsh and
stern, I sometimes saw your chin ~quiver-like a grieved
child's-and, Kate, my whole soul would be overflowed ~with
tenderness, which, ~ conceal, I' had to start up and leave the
room, with every appearance of 'anger that I could falsely
assume."'
Kat~ wept-her tears fell fast upon his hand, that she had
clasped between her own.
"And, oh, Catherine, to think that all this trouble I have
suffered, and have inflicted upon you, should have been so
unnecessary !"
,Catherine slid from the edge of the couch down upon her
l~nees beside it, and her countenance grew earnest, and in-
spired with faith and love, as she clasped her hands, and
said-.-.
"Oh, no! it was not ' cessary. 'God suffered it to be,
and it was well-very . 'All things work together ~for
good, to them that 1, ";the Lord.' And every pang that
has ploughed our e 'past, will make them fruitful
of good in the 'fut mit is, that the suffering of the
last two years has dr4~wtPour hearts together as nothing else
oould have done. Becatise-"
Again in ~the full' tide of her earnest thoughts, the' old
'l~ashfulness flushed her cheek, and silenced her tongue. She
wished'to say,~~ Because I think you would never have known
me so well, or held me so dear, if you had not proved me by
fiery trial."
And agd~n his heart rightly interpreted her silence, and he
answered her unuttered thought by saying-.'
"Yes, you are right, my' own dear blessing! You are
fright, for I never should have known your full value but for
t~he trial you have passed through. ' Yet not now only, but
always have I loved you, dear wife. I denied it to myself-
I denied it to others.-but there it was, the perfect, vital
love, as sure as fate. When I first saw you, Rate,~ II met in
:your 'face, your voice, your manner,-.~-.yes, in'every look and
tone and gesture, in your whole unity-.-.soinething that I had
vainly sought through life-something homogenial to my na-
'ture..-.-sornething perfectly satisfying. You seemed, dear
'Kate, not so much a separate existence as the '~completion of
Irny own. What did you say, Kate ~ Your 'voice, too, is

'4

2AG

I,

*         THE .OUI~SE O~I' OLIFTON.        247
ever s&amp;ft, gentle ~sn4 low,'-bilt speak again dearest. It is
something that my heartlistens to bear."
"I said that I, too, When we first met," she hesitated, and
her cheek crimsoned, 7but feeling that he listened breathless
for her words, she continued,-"Well, only 7this: II felt a~
if I were wholly yours, Archer-il havefelt so ever since~"
Again shepaused from native ~bashfuluess.
~" Kiss me, Jiate,-you never kissed me in your life."
Blushing and~ timid as the:girl that she was, she" stooped
and lightly touched his lips w~ith hers. But laughing fondly,
he threw his arm around her, exclaiming-
"You child !',' you elhild! Married two years and cannot
kis~ me !" and pressed her to his bosom, for one in~ta~t, hi
a passionate emhrace,~ that sent. life and gladness through all
her ~veins, and then~he said; "1 am. not ill, Catherine. I
have drawn health from your lips. See who is at the door,
love.", went and admitted~Fra ho came in a&amp;coutred
Kate
for traveling.
"lila! where now, FairfaxV' aslwd: CljftOu.
"'For Richmond td~day."
"No!   You 'will.not leave us~   .7"
'Yes,.-tlie truth is~ I must. I hav~ ai~, engagement to
fulfllVthere on tXhursday."
"An engagement Of what nature, Fr if a friend
may ask ~?'
"Why, the fact is,". said Captain Fairfax, growing very
red in the face, wit~h the ~ffOrt of pulling on, a pair of gloves,
"I am going to be married."
"Married! Oh,' Frank! and not to tell us anything about
it till now."
"Hem! There was no proper opportunity till now,
stammered the yming man.
"Well, who is the lady, FranE~"~ asked Clifton, while
Catherine looked arid listened 'with interests
adversity friend 7th~t my dear Zuleime found in all her
y-Mrs~ Elidght," said Frank, an&amp; then he added,
quieldy," lIt was along~ tiu~e before my mother's pride oould
he. recoucil&amp;4t&amp;thl$, but Ida's genuine goodness won' her at
last." '
After the fir~st involuntary expression of surprise, Cathe-
rine ad ~Uft~ changed glances, and Catherine said
"Well, Captain Fairfax~ as. goon 'after the marriage a# i~

S


248             ~    ~tiit~ or
~onent;4s~n*1~ ~f~er die ~er~e&amp;oiyj

The Best Illustrated Works at 50 Cents a Volume.
CAREY &amp; hART'S
Library of humorous Anierican Works,
With illustrations by Darley.

Price 50 (hnfs. (Om~pIete.)
THEATRICAL APPRENTICESHIP
AND
Anecdotal Recollections
or
SOL. SMITH, Esq.
COMEDIAN~ LAWYER, ETC. ETC.
WITH EiGHT ORIGINAL DESIGNS.
OONTBNTS.
Early Seenea.-W~nderings in the West.-
Cincinnati in Early Life-"One Man in his
Time plays zi~any Pa'~-Expedicnt to gain
a LivelihoQd-Early Days of Edwin Forrest-
The Manager in Distress-Pittsburgh Thea-
tricals-Jhiladelphia Gardens in 1824-The
014 Chatham Theatre-Star-gazing in New
York-Concerts in New Jersey-Getting thro'
a Winter-Strolling in Canad&amp;-TheMurder-
ous Alleghanians-Dawning of the Drama in
Lewistown-Floating down the stream-The-
atricals in Kentucky-Anecdotal Recollec-
tions since 1827-A Theatrical Dentist-The
Rival Vocalists-Pettifogging in St. Louis-
A Friendly Game of Poker-Tom the Curtain
Man-The Manager and Planter, Signor Mat-
thien-Letter to Rev. A. Ballard-My First
and Last Sermois-~Tennessee Door-keeper-
The Player and the Phrenologist-Interview
within Editor, &amp;c. &amp;c.
"A very whimsical apprenticeshipp it is,
making it impossible to preserve, while read-
ing it, the slightest approach to gravity. In-
deed, we have seldom met with a book so
irresistibly provocative of a perpetual 'broad
grin.' It is as good as a play, and a play of
the richest ~
Puce 50 Cte~te. (Cbmplde.)
MAJOR JONES'
SKETChES OF TRAVEL.
COMPRISING THE SORNES, INCIDENTS AND
ADVENTURES IN HIS
TOUR PROM GEORGIA TO CAKADA.
With Right Origtnal Rngravihgs, from
Designs ~ Darleg.
TF-#IRD EC)ITlON.
"Not only fun, but information is to be
gained from them."-&amp;sturday Post,
"It contains palpable and amusing hits
on the people and customs of different
places.' -Baltimore Patriot.
"The wit is of th'i 'Sam Slick' sort"-N.
l~ bmm~rcial.

Price 50 C~nts. (Complete.)
STREAKS OF SQUATTER LIFE
AND
FA1~.-WEBT SCENES.
A SERIES OF HUMOROUS SKETCHES DE-
~ SCiIIPTIVE OF INCIDENTS AND CHA-
RACTER IN THE WILD WEST.
BY "SOLITAIRE,"
(JOhN S. ROBE, of k7. Louii ho.)
ATITEOJL OT ~'8WALJAYIYING CYSTElIS ALITE."
WithEight Humoroas 1ltu~tra4ions bij Darq.
CONTENTS.
The Western Wanderings of a Typo-" Not
a Drop more, Major, unless It's sweetened"-
Nettle Bottom Bail-A Cat Story-A Spiritual
Sister~-Hoss Allen's Apology-Natural Act.
ing-A Canal Adventure-The StandingOan-
didate-An Emigrant's Perils-Fun with a
"Bar"-Telegraphing an Express-The Pie.
emotion Right-YallerI'ledges-GeorgeMun-
daytheliatless Prophet-Courting in French
hollow-The Second Advent-Settlement
Fun-" Doing" a Landlord-Who is Sir
George Simpson ?-Lettcrs from a Baby-
Seth Tinder's First Courtship-The Death
Struggle-" Who are They I"
"Mr. Robb is better huown probably as
'Solitaire,' under Which name he has written
some very broad, farcical sketches of Western
manners for the Reveille, of St, Louis. Some
of the sketches in this volume are spirited
~tnd cleverly written, and they arc all lively
and full of animal spirits; but they are too
brief to contain a development of character.
The best sketch Is the story of 'Old Sugar,'
wbich is illustrated by an exceedingly fine
drawing by Darley. We feel, after inspecting
the designs in this book, that we have here.
tofore'Sinderrated the comic powers of this
admirable artist; there are evidences in some
of these 4.esign~ of a very high order of ge-
nius."-
Price 5&amp;) Clrnts (Cbmplete.)
XAIQR JONES' COURTSHIP.
Twelft~.&amp;Zit ion, so~fli Two 4elditionai Lelterj
AND THIRTEEN I4IJMOROUS PLATES.
CONTA~NTS:
Dfejor Jones' Courtshipdetalled, with other
ficenes and Adventures, in a Series of Letters
by himself.
"Messrs. Carey &amp; hart beve published th
drollest of the droll books of the season. It Ii
a strange production, but so brimful of fun,
that half a drop would make it run over."-'
U. &amp; Gazelle.
1

I

.1


A. H&amp;RT'~ HUMOROUS LIDHARY.
Price 50 Clssts. (Cos~Zete.)     "Down-east" OrIginal-Somebody In my fle4
-A Day at Sol.Slice's-Cupping on the Stat'.
IHH DEAXA AT POKGRVILLE, num-A Bear Story-Playing Poker In Ar.
The Bencirand Bar 6fJurytown, ~ with original engravings
~                         from designs by Darley. The 'Quarter Race
in Kentucky' i~ one of the best stories that
8TORIES AND       fl~CIDENTS.        was ever penned, and the volume eoiitains a
number of others, that have from time to
DY "EVBRPOXNT,"                time appeared In the Spirit of. the Time;
(1. K. flEW, ESQ., OP THE ST. LOUIS anV~'~3~.) which are bard to bcat?'-.-N. 0. Picayune.

The DraznainPokerville-The Great Small
Affair Anuouneement-Feeling in Pokerville
-The Great Small Affair Opening.--The
Great Pokerville Preliminaries-The Great
Small Affair Mystery-The Great Pokerville
Re-union-The Great Small Affair Dinner-
TheGreatPokervllle "Saw"-The GreatSmall
Affair Scandal-The Great Small Affair Chas-
tisement-The Great Sniall 'Affair Duel--
what was built on the Great Small Affair
Foundation-The Bench and Bar of, Jury-
pwn-A Sucker In a Warm Bath-An "Aw-
(ul Place"-The Elk Runners-" Old Sol" in
a Delicate Situation-The "Gagging Scheme,"
or, West's Great Picture-Establishing the
Science-Ole Bull in the "Solitude"-How
our Friend B--'s Hair went-A Fancy Bar-
keeper-" Mr. Nobble I"-" Honey Run"-A
Hung Jury-Paternal Gushings-A Werry
Grave Exhortation-"Your Turn next, Sir"-
Stopping to "Wood"-1~path of Mike Fink-
Establishing a Connection-A Night in a
Swamp-Steamboat Miseries-A Resurree-
tionist and his Freight.
"Wizen we say that it is entirelyworthy of
him, in design and execution, our readers
'had better believe It,' we could not pay the
work a higher compliment."-N. h'~ Spirit of
the Times.
Price 50 Oints. (Cbmpde.)
A' QUARTER RACE IN KENTUCKY,

Price 50 (~nts. (0~mpZete.)
THE YANKEE
ANONGST THE 2D(ERXAIDS.
RYW.E
BURTON, COMEDIAN.
WITH ILLUSTRATiONS 8Y BARLEY.
CONTENTS.
The Yankee amongst the Mermaids; a
'Yarn by a Cape Codder, with an illustration
-Leap Year; or, A Woman's Privilege-The
Two Pigs, a Swinish Colloquy-Thaumatur.
gia; Part First, The Yankee in Hell, with an
Illustration; Part Second, The Resurrection-
lets; PartThird, The Canal-boat; PartFourth,
The Last and the Least-My First Fight, with
an illustration-Immiscible Immigration, a
petty Peter Pindaric.-Sam Weller, a Soillo-
quy in Verse-The Plc-Nb Party, with two
illustrations-The Poetry of Niagara-A Wet
Day at a Watering Place-My First Punch.
with an illustration-The Scapegrace and the
Scapegoat, a Matter-of-fact Sk~teh-The Old
Dutchman and his Long Boz, with an illus-
tration-The Man in the Big Boots-Dickey
Doddicombe, with au IllustratIon-Philadel-
phia in the Dog-days-&amp;e. 'Ac
"The drollest speclm~ of weggery that
ever emanated from that drollest of men,
Burton."-The City Itti"-

AND                           Price 50 Cent#. (6bsnpete.).
DY W. T. PORTER, ESQ.
OTHER    STORIES.'           I   ODD LEAVES EROX THE LIFE
EDITOR OP THE "DIG DEAR OP ARKANsAs," ETC.              OP A
A           CONTENTS.                 LOUISIANA    "SWAMP DOCTOR."
Quarter Race In Kentucky-A Shark       BY MADISON TENSAS, M.D.
Story-Lanty Oliphant In Court-Bill Morse
on the City Taxes-Ance Veasy's Fight with         LX L L K. 5. U. XL
Reub Sessions-The Fastest Funeral on Re- CONTENTS.
cord-Going to' Bed before a Young Lady-i
A Millerite Miracle-Old Singletlre-"Run-, The Cit~' l~hysleian versus The Swamp Des'
tiIng a Saw"'on a French Gentleman-Break- "tor-My Itarly Life-Gettingacquabated with
Ing a Bank-Taking the Census-Dick Har- the Medicines-~A Tight Race considerin'-
Ian's Tennessee Js'olic-'~ Falling off a Log" Taking Good Advice-The.1)ay of Judgment
In a Game of "Seven up"-~The "Werry Fast -rA~Ratt1esneIke on a Steamboat-Frank and
Crab"-" Freneb without a Master"-A Rol- the P~ofpssor-The CuriousWidow-The Mis-
llcking:Dragoon Officer-The Gcorgia' Major sissippiPatent Plan for pulllngTeeth-Vale-
In Cotirt-Uncle Billy BroWn "Glorious"- nan and the ~anthe~king a Location-
Old Tuttle's Las~ Quarter Race-Bill Dean, Cupping an Irishman-Being Examined for
the Texan"Ran~et-The Steamboat Captain my Degree-Stealing a Baby-The A' Swamp
'who was averse to Racing-Bob Herring the Doctor" to Esculaplus-My First Call in the
Arkansas Bear-bunter-MeAlpin's Trip to Swamp-The Man of Aristocratic Diseases
Charleston-Indian RubberPills-A Murder The ITudefictigable Bear-hunter-Love in 5
Case in Mississippi-Kicking a Yankee-A Garden- [low tocureFita- A ~tzuggleforl.ia
2

A. HART'S hUMOROUS LIBRARY.

Price 50 cents. (Complete.)
THE
WIDOW RUGBY'S HUSBAND,
AND OTHER STORIES.
By JOHNSON 3. HOOFER, Esq.
Author of "Adventures of Olzptain Simon
WiTh ILLUSTRATIONS BY ELLIOTT.
"A collection of humorous stories well cal-
culated to provoke laughter. We advise the
immediate purchase of the book, but a tem-
perate use of it-one story at a sitting will
be sufficient; a greater indulgence might
result seriously. The very pictures have
set us in a roar, and we can scarce compose
our nerves sufficiently to make our words
intelligible to the compositor."-Pkikofa.
4 dvert2er.
"This is, of course, quite full of fun-.-' all
sorts' of fu~; and those who want a good
laugh, should take a peep at Elliot's very
original comic illustrations."-Am. Lburier.
"This book is by the favorite and witty
author of' Adventures of Simon Suggs,' with
original designs by the inimitable Darley.
It is a capital illustration of the laughable
side of Western and Southern life, if you
would exijoy a broad laugh, buy it."-City
item.
"There is enough 'fun' in thir volume to
'spice' a magazine for a twelvemonth."-
Southern Literary (kezette.
"Excellent for dispelling care are the hu-
morous works with which Mr. A. Hart, Chest-
nut and Fourth streets, is supplying the
lovers of mirth. His is the only 'library' of
the kind in the country, where genuine hu-
inor is measured out in periodical doses, and
always warranted to make a man 'laugh
and grow fat? That is the motto, and a
capital one it is. The last lot is labelled'
'Widow Rugby's Husband,' divided into a
number of the most comical and amusing
stories imaginable. The illustrations of 'A
Ride with Old Kit,' 'A Night at the Ugly
Mafi's,' 'Captain McFadden,' and the 'Poor
Joke,' are among the richest provocative to
a hearty laughY-Americafl burier,
.t'rice 50 cents. (Complete.)
Polly Peablossoin's Wedding,
AND OTHER TALES AND SKETCHES,
lIT THE nON. 3. LAMAR, TR~ EON. a. x. OBAUL-
TONE AND
By the Author of "Streaks of Squatter Life,"
"Atajor Jonea~s C&amp;'urtship," fv~
With Engravings from Original Designs by
Elliott.
"A mirth-provoking book, well calculated
to enliven an evening and put to flightenuni,
melancholy, and all the gloomy humors
'flesh is heir to.~ "-Pheitadelnhia Advertiser.

Price 60 cents.
MISSISSIPPI SCENES:
OR~ SKETCHES or
SOUTHERN LIFE AND ADVENTURE.
BY JOS. B. COBB.
"The peculiar manners and Odd customs,
the curious ways, and still more curious peo-
ple who reside, live, or float on the great
river, are passed in review, and pleasant
stories are told about thum."-Boston Even-
ing Gazette.
"The stories are well told, and some of
the sketches of character are well drawn."-
Savanwxh .N~ws.
"We have here a neat volume of sketches
by one of the contributors of the Gazette; a
gentleman of fine abilities and finished edu-
cation, who resides in Mississippi. The pre-
sent volume is confined entirely to scenes of
Southern Life, all of which are told with
spirit and naturalness."-&amp;zturdali Gazette.
"This is a pleasant book, and interesting
froiri the circumstance of the sketches, as the
author tells us in his preface, being chiefly
drawn from real scenes and characters, illus-
trative of life in Mississippi; and, happily,
for the most part, not the low comic life af-
fected by so many of the recent painters of
Southern manners and adventures."-.North
American;
"The sketches before us are full of capti-
vating and amusing incidents; and to the
Mississippi reader, they are peculiarly in-
teresting, from the fact that many of the
'Scenes' are laid within the borders of our
own State. To nil who would enjoy an enter-
~aining volume, we commend this work."-
The Mississippian.
"A graphic description of the peculiarities
of people in anew country, in which curious
relations are blended with satire and broad
humour, cannot fail to amuse. Such is the
character of this agreeable volume?'-Balti-
more American.
NOBODY'S SON:
on,
Adventures of Percival Maberry.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
Price 50 cent.
~~dNcbody~s Son' will interest and please
everybody. It is a delightful book-a no-
velty in its way, and full to overflowing with
curious and absorbing events. Those who
read the first chapter itil not lay it down
until the story is ~nastcred entirc."-Oity
Item.
"A well-writteu story of adventure, bor-
dering somewhat on the marvellous, but an
agreeable and intorestiug~oda."-&amp;Wannah
News.
"This is a well-writtesl~book, by an author
from whom we hope to h~S again. It is full
of incident and adventure, while Maberry
himself is exceedingly well drawn."-Satur-
I day Gazette.
:1

a

'I

I;


$

A. ELART'S STANDARD WORKS.

h1atT

TH~E

A. hART'S ~TA~DARD WOJIKS.
STANDARD WORKS.
LORD BACON'S WORKS. Price Reduced to $~ ~O.
Price Reduced to $I~ 50.          THE WAVERLEY NOVELS.
In 3 Royal Ovo. Volumes, Cloth Gilt.             COMPLI~TE.
TilE WORKS OF LORD BACON, 3340 Pages for Two l3oilars and a HalL
WITH A MEMOIR, AND A TRANSLATION CAREY &amp; HART, have recently published
Or Ifle LATIN WRITING5~ A NIIWEflITION OF
BY BASIL MONTAGU, ESQ. TJIE WAVERLEY NOVELS,
In Three Volumes, Octavo. B~ SIR WALTER SCOTT,
The American edition of the works of With all Me Author's latest Notes and Addi-
Lord Bacon, now offered to the public1 is (fii~; Complete, without the slightest
reprinted from the most approved English           Abrid~e~t.
edition, that of Basil Montagri, Esq., which
has recently issued from the celebrated In Five Royal fivo- volumes, upwards of
press of Pickering, (the modern Aldus,) in fiSt) Pages in each volume.
seventeen octavo volumes. It contains the         CONTENTS.
complete works of the illustr
tluise in Latin being trraj1~r~ Waverley, Guy Mannering, Antiquary,
~ngkish. In order to render the publica- Rob Roy, Black Dwarf, Old Mortality,
tion cheap, and therefore attainable by all Hedrt of Mid-Lothian, Bride of Lammer.
our public and social libraries, as well as moor, Legend of Montrose, Ivanhoe, The
by those general readers who study econo- Monastery, The Abbot, Kenilworth, The
my, the seventeen octavo volumes have Pirate, Fortunes of Nigel, Peveril of the
been comprised in three volumes, imperial Peak, Qutintin Durward, St Ronan's Well,
octavo. Being printed from the most accu. Redgauntlet, The Betrothed, The Talisman,
rate as welt as complete English edition, Woodstock, The Highland Widow Two
arid carefully revised, the American edition Drovers, My Aunt Margaret's b~[irror
will possess greater advantages for the ~n- Tapestried Chamber, The Laird's Zock
tical scholar as well as the general reader. Fair Maid of Perth, Anne of Gierstein,
In typograpby, a er and bin ding, it will Count Robertof Pari~, Castl@ Dangerous,
be recognized as a brilliant specimen of ['he Surgeoti's Daughter.
the products of the American book trade.  The object of the pttI~lishers in thus re.
"We may safely affirm, that, by giving ducing the price of the Waverley Novels,
the Inductive Philosophy to the world is to endeavor to give them a greatly cx.
Lord Bacon has proved one of its most  tended circulation, and they have, there-
nal benefactors, and has largely done Ins iore, PUt them at a price which brings them
part towards promoting the final triumph within the reach of every family in the
of all truth whether natural, or moral and country. There iv now no ~reside that
intellectuni, over all error; and towards need be withorit a setof the most charming
bringing on that glorious crisis, destined, works of fiction ever issued from the press:
we doubt not, one day to arrive, when ac- or there is no one that can't afford two
cording to the allegorical representatitn of dolliti~s and a half-TWO DOLLARS
th~at great poet, who was not only the Ad- AND A HAJ~F for twenty-five of Sit' Wal-
mirer of Bacon, but in some respects his ter Scott's Novels ! ~en cents for a com-
kindred genius-.-TItpT~, though 'hewn like plete Novel!! tea cents foil "Ivanhoe,"
the manglpd body of Osiris, into a thousand which wa~ originally published at aguines
pieces, and scattered to the four winds, and a half!!! It seems impossibleand yet
shall be gathered limb to limb, and mould. it is true. In no other-~way can the same
ed, with every joint an~ member, into an amount of amt)s~ment and instruction he
immortal feature of loveliness and perfect. obtained for ten times the money, for the
tion."'                               Waverley Novels alone form a Library.
are more gratified than we can The publishers wesh it to be distinctly
find words to express, to find a publishing understood, that, while the price is so great-
hous6 ih this ebuntry, phiting forth a pub- b reduce4 the work is in no wayabridged,
location like the Complete Works of Lord ut is CAREFULLT FEINTED FROM AND CON
Baconin a fortn at once compact, elegant TAlKS EVEltT woRn IN THE LA~ F~nxrenuaeis
and economical,"~Broth~,~ .TonaeAan.  EDITION, in forty.eight volumes, which sells
for seventy-two dqltare.
Now is the time to buy Such anoppor.
WALTER SCQTT'S COMPLETE WORKS, tunity may never again occt~t'. Let every
Tn 10 vole., Ro~iaZ 8tro, aoth ~iit, jin.  one, then, who wantit the W'atmerley Noee.s
04 $1011                 or two dollars and a half, now purchase, for
if the publishers do notfind the sal~greatly
Including the Waverly Novels, Poetical and increased, by the immense reduction in
Prose Works, with the Author's latest  price, 'they will resume the old price of
Corrections,            twenty-five cents for each Novel, which
4iso, 1idZ.bou~~4 Zq'rary h~ty4 .P,*c *12.50. was considered wonderfully eheap.
4                                                                  4

~vn~          ifrQ~  flf Thurtira, ]~rn~        ~*3vitrr.~  of     vuiu~j~
WITH A suuvny OF THE iNTELLECTUAL                BY F. H. HEDGE.
HISTORY, CONDITION, AND PROSPECTS
oil' THE COUNTRY~                  IIJ~uSTaATED WITH t'ORTRAITB.
BY RUFUS WILMOT GRISWOLD.
FOURTH EDITION, REVISED.        The work. mentioned above comprises a
list of the most eminent writers of Germany,
illustrated with Portraits front Q,'iginal  together with copious extracts from their
FsctUT~,5.              works, beginning with LUTHER and reaching
Complete in one volume octavo-$S 50.  up to the present time. For those who are
CONTENTS.                interested in the literature of Germany, it
Intellectual History, Condition, and ~ presents a valuable aid in becoming more
intimately acquainted with the German
poets of the Country-Edwards, Franklin, mind; and oven to the curious it offers an
Jefferson, Madison, Dwight, Marshall, Hamil- excitement which will grow stronger in pro-
ton, Ames, J. Q. Adams, C. B. Brown, Wirt, portion as their taste is cultivated.
Quincy, Allston, Story, Paulding, Flint, Chan- In the present volume we find valuable ox-
ning, Wheaton, Webster, Audubon, Walsh, tracts, given from their prose writings. Al.
Irving, BuckminsterVOrplaRCk, Norton, San- though the writers follow in chronological
derson, Dana, Wilde, Cooper, A. H. Everett, order, and LUTHER stands at the bead of his in.
Hall, Schooleraft, Dewey, Sfiarks, John Neal, tellectual brethren, the longest space is allow-
Bryant, Edward Everett, Kennedy, Ilush, ed to those who claim our greatest attention;
Sedg*ick, Wayland, Prescott, Edward Robin- and.GoaTEE therefore occupies the most con.
son, Leslie, Legare, Ware, Bancroft, Marsh, spicuous position both inthe specimens given
Hooker, Brownson, Child, Bird, Emerson, and the selection of the pieces. GOsTEE is a
Fay, Cheever, Hoffman, Kirkland, Haw- writerwho requires mostof all to be studied;
thorne, Willis, Longfellow, Simms, Joseph while others, as ScHILLER, in his passionate
C. Neal, Poe, Tuckerman, Fuller, Headley, mood and ideal longings, requires no silent
Mathews, Thorpe, Whipple.              and incessant reflection, because he works
"Mr. Qriswolti'S book has been executed his effects immediately by rousing the depth
honestly, ably, a~d well, and is a valuable of our nature. Next to GOETHE, SOHILLER
contribution to the literature of the coun- appears in an article' upon Naive and Senti.
try."..-.Kw~cer~iocke?. mental Poetry, a bold effort of him, the sue-
"We deem the book by all odds the best cess of which is however yet very disputed,
of its kind that has over been issued; and we ~ classify over.j~ produce of Art according to
certainly know of no one ~vho could have the impressions made upon the reader, and
made it better."-N. I. .!.burier and .lYJn~juirer. to dispense with the various and cuniber-
some forms of the departments into which
,,,.-n ~ we have been accustomed hitherto to ar-
~ 4~'4tW ~Uytll~ ~OJJI4tOlt ' range all subjects bearing upon poetry. The
OF THE RISTOILT op THE        department upon which 5CHILLER enters
here, belongs properly to the philosophy of
~VAI tITiAN, Art; to the aesthetics, the Investigation of
FK~N~~                                his time. Next to him comes Iisnnza, a do.
BY hi. A. THIERS,              Foremost sinacis LESsING, the first critic of
LATE PRIME MINISTER OP FRANCE.
Tiraszslated from the Frericlt, with Z4Totes and vout philosopher, and' a clear-sighted betel-
Additi(nis.             lejit, with tl~e eyes of a child; curious to
penetrate the maze ai~d noisy tnarhet of the
The Fojlr Volumes complete in TWo.  world, the variegated life among the ancients
Price only Sit 50.           and tl&amp;e moderns in searelafot' th~t beautiful.
of the French humanity which lie bad ~ltetebedin his own
The edition ~f the History           mind, and which be would fain~proela1m the
Revolution now offered to the public is order of an other ise'mysteli4Hle providence.
printed on VERY LARGII TYPli, on good The two brothers 8oe1EGUt4-~~Willi$tl), the
paper, and contaifl8 upwards of noble interpreter and translator of Shake-
Eighteen Hundred ,Large Octane Pqger, pears, and Frederic, linown best by his in-
andisunquestionablythe obeapest book ever vestigations of the language and wisdom of
published. It forms a necessary introdtWtieti (the Indians-follow' hint, and Moass MEN-
to THE LIFE OF NAPOLEbthy hi. A. DELSSOIiN, a Jewish philosopher, closes the
TRIERS, .NTOWIYCOIIRSE OFPUBLIcIA- series of these writers, The treatise of the
TIOZtT,-and the two works present a complete latter on the Sublime ~mnI Nalvewill be read
with interest by everybody who has only an
H I$TQRY OF ERA NOE ordinary reading of ancient and modern
from the eonimeneement of the French lie- poetry. Distinct from all the rest stand WIN.
solution, dowu to the dsath of Napoleon,  LAND and JEAN PAUL RICHTER, best known
*~* Also a~ fineEdition wIth 18 steel ~n- in this country by the appellation of JEAN
gravings, 2 vols., Extra (lilt, 58,    1~avi..

'I
Y
I


A. HART'S NEW WORKS.
RECENTLY PUBLISHED,
IN TWO VOLUME~ POST 8i~o., WITH PORTRAITS, CLOTH, EXTRA GILT, $2.
MEMOIRS OF THE
COURT OF MARIE ANTOINETTE,
*               (QUEEN OF FRANCE.)
BY MADAMII CAMPAI~.
First Lady of the Bed-chamber to the Queen.
With a Biographical Introduction from "The Ueroic Women of the
French ~
BY M. DB LAMARTINB.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
"THE book is a noble def'ence 01' Marie An. that ever shared the honour~ of royalty.
toinette against the many calumnies breathed Compiled by one every way competent by
agalns~ her. Moreover, as a picture of man- talent aDd education, and qualified by per.
ners during the latter years of Louis XV., ~onah familiarity, the facts are entitled to the
and t~xe entire reign of his successor, it has, confidence of the reader, *hile th~ Style is
no sopel-lor; It is at once more decent and pi~uant and graceful. The work is got up
snore veracious than the 'Life of Dubarry,' in a very'~uperior~tyhe of mechanical cxc-
and the thousand other garbled memoirs of cuLioii~"-Baltimore &amp;zn.
that period. 4 large number of notes, cx- "We. have seldom perused so entertaining
planatory and' otherwise, accompany 'the a work-it isas a mirror of the most splendid
volume, and add materially to its value, court of Europe, at a time when monarchy
Mr. Hart has published the book in a style had not been shorn of any of its beams, that
of great elegance, mid illustrated it with it is particularly worthy of our attention."-.
portraits, on steel, of Marie Antoinette and Aforning, Chronicle.
Madame Elizabeth. ut Is a book that should "There is not a page of the worli which is
find atplace'on evei~'lady's centre-table."-. not deeply or amusln~ly Interesting. The
Keal'e~Glzsette.                       position of the author at the court of Louis
"Two very Interesting volumes, whlchthe XVI. gave her extraordinary opportunities
reader will notbe likely to heave till he has for lookii~g behind the scenes for the causes
finished them."-.PtsbUo Ledger,        of much that was entirely inexplicable to
"The material of this hIstory could not the public. Indeed, there can be no ques-
have emanated from a mere authentic or of- tion of her knowledge, while of her truthful.
facial source, ~or have been honoured with a ness~ as far as site goes, there is abundant
snore distinguished or capable god-father evidence in the volumes themselves. We
than D~ Laatartlne."-~9aturday Cburier. cannot believe Marie Antoinette to have
"These e1sgantvohnm~s are areprlntfrom been as Immaculate as she Is painted by
the thlr&amp; IAndon edition of this very dehlght.~ Madame Cam~~n. Ytiung, giddy, inexperi-
fig work. The ~lcissltudes de~lleted In the enced audwitfish, she was cast headlong into
volumes, aad scarcely less the charming th~ most profligate court of Christendom.
style of the author and the entire familiarity Surrounded by ples~jw~s and temptations,
of her theme, make the work one of themost amid a set of beings to whom gallantry was
interesting thathse recently ISsued from the so habitual that it ceased to be reinarIred-.
American liress, end no less Instructive and with an impotent husband, and. with all
entertainI6g."-1V~. I'. O3mmerci.zZ Advertiser, around bim corrupt, venal, and licentious,
"This doIIgh~~ work, abounding with we eammot believe that all the scandalous
histhrlcalincldents connected with one of the stories respecting the queen were entirely
most stirring periods of Frencithistory, pro. without foundation, that she was always
~ents the readarwltlvthe personal annals of misconstrued and mahigned'~.-Boaton 4torn-
one of the moat anilable and excellent women tog Post.

A. 1~ART'S STANDARD WORKS.
THE MODERN BRITISHESSAYISTS
At less than Half Price.
The great success that has attended the publication of
THB MODERN ESSAYISTS
Corn p rising the Critical and Mistidilaneous Writings of the IViost Distinguished AuthOri
of Modern Times, has induced the publishers to issue a New, Revised and very Cheap
Edition, with Finely Engraved Portraits of the Authors; and while they have added to
the series the writings of several distinguished authors) they have reduced the price more
than                           OIE HALF.
The writings of each author will generally bti comprised in a single octave volume,
well printed from new type, on fine white paper manufactured e~piess1y for this editon
The series will contain ~all the most able papers that have EVER APPEARED IN
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW.,
and may indeed be called the CRIfAM of those pubbeattons.
it isonly necessary to mention the names of the authors whose writings will appear. T,
BABINGYON MACAULAY, ARCHIBALD ALISON, REV. SYDNEY SMITH, PROFESSOR WILsoR,
JAMES STEPHEN, ROBERT SOUTIJEY Sut WALTER SCOTT, Loan JEFFREY, Sta JAMES MACK.
nerotn, T. NOON TAL~OU~~, .1.0. LOCKHART, REG' RAW ilnaRn.
The popularity of the authors and the extreme modcraticn of the price, recommend
-rHE MODERN E8SAVIERT8,
To HEADS OF FAMILIES for their Children, as perfect models of style.
To MAunHlIs OF BOOK SoCxHriui, Book Clubs, &amp;c.
To SCHOOL INsPECTORS, SCEOOLMASTH1I5 AND TUTORS, RB suitable gifts and prizes, or
adapted for School Libraries.
TIIAVELLERS ON A JOURNEY will find in these portable and cheap volumes something to
read on the road, adapted to fill a corner in a porlmanteau or carpet.bag
To PAssENGERS ON BOARD A SHIP, here are ample materials in a narrow compass for
whiling away the monotonous hours of a sea voyage.
To OFFICERS IN THE AmvIv AND NAVY, and to all Economists ip space or pocket, who,
having limited chambers, and small book-shelves, desire to lay up for themselves a concern
trot &amp;A.4ti rary, at a moderate expenditure.
To ALL wno RAVE PluENDs IN DISTANT ComcrnlEa, as an acceptable present to send
out to them.
THEMODREN EssAYIsTs Will yield to the Settler in the Backwoods of America the most
valuable and intcrestin~ writings of all the most distinguishediluthors of out time at lcs~
than one tjunrter the ~ricc they could be obtained in any other form.
THE STUDENT~AND LOVER OF LITERATURE at Home, who has hitherto been compelled
to wade through volumes of Reviews for a single article, may now become possessed of
every article worth reading for little more than the cost of the ant~4l5tSbSC7J)tiOt.
Ranked's History of the Popes, Cowley and
W~AW                Milton, Mitford's History of Greeca, Thu
Athenian Orators Comic Draftiatists of the*
Restoration, Lord' Holland, Warren Haste
CRITIUATi AND 1~1ISCELTjANEOIJS ings, Frederic the Ureat, Lays of Ancient
Rome, Madame D'Atblay, Addison, Ba~
W  RI T 1 N 0 S 0 F~          rere's MemoirsMontgOiIi~ry'* Poems, Civil
THOMAS BAEINGTON l~AOAULAY. DisabilittesOf the Jews, Mill on Govern-
in One Volume, wit/i a./inely engraved metit, Bentliam's' Defence of l~fillUtilita-
portrait, from an original pietuti  nan Theory of Government, and Earl Chat-
b~, Henry inman.. Clot/i Gilt,   h5~a, second part, Ac
$2 00.                    it t~uy now be askedby pome sapiens
critics, Why make all this crnj aboutamere
Contents.                 periodufta3es~ayi5t? Of what possible eon-
Milton, Mnchmayelli Dyyden, IlIstOrY, cern is ittO anybody, whether Mr. Thomas
(lallam's Constitutional History, Southey's Babinttton Macaulay be~r l~e i~et, overrun
Colloquies on Society, Moore's Life of B~- with faults, strike he is nothing ipore ih~w
von, 5quthey sBuflyBnI~PilgrIm's Progrcs5~ one of the three-dayimmortals sAio coi~tri-
CrOkc1~'s Boswtill's Life lif Johnson, Lord bute flashy aiid'tkg a~iel~s to a Quar-
Nu~ent's Memoirs ofHiizlipdeii, Nare'~.Me- terly Review? What gr~atwortt )mas he
moirs of Lord flixrghley, Damont's Rcco1~ written? Snob questlQllsas these might lie
elections of Mirabean, Lord MahOii'5 Warof, pat by the same men who ~~ace.the Sp~cla-
Ihe Succession, Walpole's Lcttelu to Sir H. br, Tattler and Rambler usimong ~.he British
Mann, Thacaaray'5 History of Earl Chat- classics, yet judge of the size of a c6ttimpo-
ham, Lord Bacon, MackintosliS History of rftrv's mind by that of hit~ book, and~who
the RevolutioTh of England, Sir John Mal- can aaray recognize amplitu*eof compre.
colm's Lifrof Lord Olive~ Life and Writings nsion, unless: it' be ;a~ead over 'the ~iz
of Wv W. Teatplc,* Chui~hu and~~tate, hundred pages of octa~os and qoarW&amp;~

F
ii


A. HART'S STANDARD WQRKs~
uchmawoaid.placeBaneroftalxve Web-.'                  IV.
ster, and S~,arks above Calhoun, Adams mid ~ ~XZrSON.
Everett-deny aposterityfoi, Bryant's Tha.
natopsis, mid px~ediot longevity to Pollok's
Course of Time. It is singular that the sa-  TH~ Rl~CRIilATIONS OF
gacity which can detect thought only in a OJflUSTOflI~ ~TO~1T1L
*tIItdt)fdilutienis not sadlYh aveledwhen In One Volume Svo., first American Edition
Itthlflksofthe~sententious a ~~.risms which
have eurvived~wlwle libraries of folios, and with a Portrait. Price #1 00.
the little songs which have outrun, in the CONTENTS.
race of fame, so many enormous epics~.-
While it can easily be deniotts~rnted il~at Christo her in his Sporting J~icket-.A
Macaulay's wtiti~xgs contain altundred-fold Tale 6f Expiu~tioxi~Morning lWonologue....
more matter and Miought, than an equal 'I'he ~'ie1d o(Flowers-cottages...~ Hour's
number of volumes taken from what are Talk about 1'oc:ry-Ineh Cruin-A Day at
called, rat eminence, the 'British Essay. Wn~dermere.~..Thc Moors-1i~ghland Snow.
Isis,' it is not broa~hing any literary heresy Storm-The Holy (~l~ild~Our V~rish...May.
to predict, that they wil[ sail as far down daySaered Poetry-.Christopher in his
the stream of time, as those eminent mem- Aviary-Dr. Kitchiner..~sonioquy on the
bets of the illustrious family of British clas- Seasons-A Few Wot~ds on Thomson...
tics."                                 The Snowball Bicker of Piedn~on~..Christ.
H                    inns Dreams...Our Winter Quarters..-Strol'
ARC5ZA.TJ~ z~om'. IoGrafhmere...L7Eavoy Rural L~4"
"And hot less for that wonderful series
TIlE (IRITIIJAL AND ~USOET~M~IE~OUS of articles by WUson, in Blackwood's
WRITINGS        o~            .Magazine~ine~eirkj~~05 rutv amazing
ARCHIBALD' ALISON,               and as truly glorious as cite romance oJ
Scott or the poetry of Wo~*dsworaJz. Farand
AUTHOIIOW"THK ~1STQRY oF nunopih"   wide and much as these papers have been
In One Volume1 Svo. with ~ portrt~it. admired, wherever the English language is
Pnce $~ 25.              read, I still question whether any one mau
C6~'X IIMTS.               has ajust ideaof them as a whole."
Chateaubriand, Napoleon, Bossuet, Po-
land, Madame de Stiel, National Monu- V.
Inents Marshal Ney, Robert Bruce, Paris O&amp;Iy~ IYlisceilanieg.
~18Fi, Thp Lciuvre in 1814, Tyrol, France
in 1833, Italy, Scott, Campbell and Byron,, ~
Schools of Design, Lamartine, The Copy-  IIlbHilflHJ A ND 'II~CELLANEODS
right Question Micheiot's France, Military
Trenson and 6ivic Soldiers, Arnold's Rome,       E~SA Y~ 0 F~
Mirabeau, Bulwer's Athens, The Reign of      THOMAS CARLYLE.
rermr, The 'French Revolution of 1830,   In one See. volutnewil&amp; a Porwass.
Ihe Fall of Tprkey, The Spanish Revolu-
:on of 1830, Karamsin's Russia Effects of          1~DIcn $1 2s.
die French Revoltt~ion of 1830, l5esertio~ of    00 ~ T E ~t T S.
Portugal, Wellington, Cartist Struggle in Jean Paul Friedrich Richter-State of
~pain, The Affghanistau Expedition, The, German Literature -~. Werner- Goethe's
&amp;C. *0.                         Helena~Goethe...J~urns-.~Reyae.Oerumui
Ill.                  PlaYwrights~v~oltai~e...Novali..sjg,150j
STDMUT S1~9ZZI'H. the Times-Jean Paul Friedrich Richter
again- On History-.Sc~jller.....Th0 Nibel.
THE WORKS ~' 'flJjj~            luiigen Lied-Early German Literature-
Taylor's Historic Survey ofOerman Poetry
Characteristios....John~on....Death of Go-
Fine Edition. In One Velurne, with a ethe-Goethe's Works-Djderot~On His-
porstait. 'Pkice ~SI 00. tory again-Count Cagliostro-c~n Law
"Almost ~very thing lie hut ~ io~0 Rhymes-The Piamoud NOcklace-Mira.
ch~imeterispe th~ i~ 'woukl be difficult~ ~iu-Frencb, Parliamentary History-.
nie i~ to ~  ott  ~   ~l7h          alter Scott, &amp;c. &amp;c.
iiuWvid~a~ ~ea;ure~ aud the rare eomjiina-
hoC 6f~pou~ displayed in hp works, gi'ire VI.
a ~5seiaati~ inicolinected with Ihe ~4LYOO~~_&amp; STE~1KEN
subIeetofwh~hhe treafsor the general eoa-
reetness 6f his ~)ews,~ 11e sometimes hits THE CRiTICAL WRITINGS
die niaric in the white, he sometimes misSes
it a~to~t~er, fot he b~r no atenas cojilines T. NOON TALFOURD
his pen t~ theories towimieb he is v~lculaze4 AND
t9tiojpsttce; mit Whether lip hits or misses,
h~ is alwayS parkingg and delightful. The JAMES, STEPHEN
charm of his wiitipgs is aernewbitt ~imil~,
h~tofMonta~e or Charles LamI, )~. WITH A FIK~LY tNGIAVED PORT&amp;AIT.
zeus.                   In One Volume, Svo. Prioc $1 2~.

I

or'
FRANCIS LORD JEFFREY.
In One Volume See., with es' Portrait.
From a very able article in the North
British Review we extract the following:
"It is a book not to be read only-but
studied-it is a vast repository; or rather
a system or institute, embracing the whole
circle of letters-if we except the exact
sciences-and contains within itself; notin
a desnitory form, but in a welt digested~
scheme, more original conceptions, bold
and fearless speculation and just reasoning
on all kinds and varieties of subjects than
are to be found in any English writer with
whom we are acquainted within the pre-
sent or the last generation. * * His
choice of words is unbounded and his feli-
city of expression, to the most impalpable
shade of djscriiliinatio!b almost miraculous.
Playful , lively, and full of illustration, no
subject ,isso dull or so dry that he cannot
iiivest it with interest, and none so trifling~
that it cannot acquire dignity or elegance
from his pencil. Independently however,
of mere style, and apart from the great
variety of subjects embraced bY his pen,
the distinguishing feature of his writings,
and that in which he' excelaihis cotempo-
rary reviewers, is the deep vein of practical
nioughit which runs throughout them all"

A. hART'S STANDARD WORKS.
contents of "Talfourd."                          VHT
Essays on British Novels and Romances, SIR JAMES MACKINTOSIL
introductory to a series Criticisms on the
Living Novelist5~1~IaCkenzie, The Author
of Waverley Godwin, Maturin, Rymer on SIR JAMES MACKINTOSH'S
Tragedy, Coiley Cibber's Apology for his ~vnvnnmyairg TO TIlE EDIN~
Life, John Dennis's Works, Modern Pc- COI~T1IJDUIW1~
riodical Literature, On the Genius and
Writings of Wordsworth, North's Life of         BIJRGII REVIEW.
Lord Guilford, Hazlitt's Lectures on the r~ionectecz and Edited by isis go~4
Drama, Wallace's Prospects of Mankind,
Nature and Providence, On Pulpit Ora- In One Volume Svo., with a Portrait,$l 75.
tory, Recollections of Lisbon, Lloyd's
Poems~ Mr Oldaker on Modern Improve-
mentsA Chapter on Time, On the Profes-      ~FHE
sion of the Bat, The Wine Cellar, Destriic- .L'JXJJJLQ
tion of the Brunswick Theatre by Fire,
First Appearance of Miss Fanny Kemble,
On the Intellectual Chara~ter of the late PRANCES SARGENT OSGOOD.
Win. Hazlitt.
Co~tentS of "Siepleen."             3EIIuztrattll b~ t~jt bzzt afi(Zt%.
Life of IVillierforce Life of Whitfield and  ~  ~   ~   uniform toith Carey d
y~~udeD'Atibigiie'5 kefortIis.tion, I4fe and n, Hart's Illustrated RryantWI12IS,, iSe.
TimeS of Baxter, Physical Theory of Ano-
ther Life 'I'he ~?ort Royalists, Igatitius LoY The following exquisitelytlnlSlied line en
ola, Taylor's Edwin the~Fair. ..   . gravings are from origl~ia1de5lgP5, by ow
"His (Talfourd's) Critical writings main- most celebrated painters, and are executed in
fest on every page a sincere, earnest and the highest style of art :.-Portrait of the Au
sympathizing love of intellectual excel- thoress; Hope; A Child playing with
lenee and moral beauty. The. kindliness Watch; The Resiler; Ida; Old Friends; Tin
of temper and tenderness of sentiment with Child's Portrait; Little Red Riding Hood:
which they are animated, are continually The Life Boat; Twilight Hours; The Aral
suggesting pleasantthoughts of the author." and his Steed; Zuleika.
-North American Review.                 "There is nothing mechanical about hel~
-                     all is buoyant, overflowing, irrepressible vi
VII.        '         vacity, like the bubbling up of a nature~
LORD      JErYRmY.               fountali~. In her almost childish playful
ness, she remindS us of that exquisite cres
CRITICAL WRITINGS tloii of Fouque, Undine, who kuewnO icr
THE                                   but that of her              !l~hegrea
charm or net poe1~ry ii' ~ ~"-~

city. It lathe tr~ispareIitsinipliCit~~ of trutb,
reflecting the feeling of the mon~it like a
rmrror2~-Reli. Dr. DaSidson.
'"In all the poems of Mts. Osgood, we find
occasion to admire the author as well as ~lre
works. Her spontaneous and Instinctive effu-
alone appear, in a higher degree than any
others In ~urllt5i'Att1t4t, to-combine the rarest
~ sincerest
and deepest sentiments and the noblest aspi-
ratl'ons. They would convince us, If the
beauty of liet life were otliei'wisB unknown,
that Mrs. Osgood is one of ths.lovellt3st cbs-
racters"lii the hlstories~of~lltetiture or 'so-
eiety."..FeflnS7/isa~i~ Inquirer and Clmrter.
"The position of Mrs. Osgood. as a graceful
and 'womanly poetess, is fixed, and ~ be
enduring~ A~o taste of lImitless delicacy', ~a
remarkable couimteid of poetical language,
great variety ofeadeuce, ends inoatmusical
veraification, shehas a4dedrece!itlY~hehlSh.
eat qualities of inspiration, Imagination, and
p~isaion~in ~ degree *arei~ situafled In the
productiOnS 'bf 'womell. a'. The reputation
which Mrs.Osgood enjoys, as one of the most
~amIabie, true-hearted. atid brilliant ladles In
American society, will add to, the good foi~.
tuasof ji book, the intrinsic ~x~eUeiie5 and
beauty of which will secure for It a pities
among the stauidftrd creations of fernle.gs.
nius"-RiliflS .Tounitd.
S

ii

'I

I'

t


A. HART'S ~TANDAR~ WGRK~
POETXOAL LIBRARY.
THE POETS AND POETRY OF
EUROPm, I~NGLAND, AME1~ICA, ~to.
CAREY &amp; LiAftTbave just published in four splendid volurpes~ beautifully illustrated,
sad 'inik~nn i~i ~e1with their new edition of "THE MQ~ERN~SS4Y~TS," and
~e??7arn; a st~tablscompanirn to kat deUgI4ful aeries:-.
ILLUSTRAT~D PO~iS.
*tIons~m~~h:,pootica1 ~De8~nsbyF.OCDa~oy
POETS ANP PBI~TRY OP AIRERIVA: BY MRS. L, H. SIGOURNEY.
LIST OF ThLUSTRATIO~
Pre1im~naru  ;~ p~ ~ ~Prpgres~ and      The Divided ~3trden...-A Landscspe.-.Ori~.
ka"~TheAud:ntpamllO~e Summer
Cepuiid~    ~i'oetry     Con's.                                k-4~ve....The
d0~i~tEtfl Poets.                                          ?Oopng
BV1W*/r~I~ W. GIUBWOLTh !~ volume Is a most luxurious and gor.
mGlrag*~rn~ V15~A~P BNLAE(~W, geous one, seflecting the highest credit on
Bletantly bound in Ool'd Calf and Morocco. its 'getters up;' and we know of nothing
lie~$% 00, or in Cloth Gilt, $3 Ott from the American press which would form
~ t~4i~ ja tbe 500 pe~jes pC title oeaps a more acee$able  Ift.book~ or a richer orna.
tlf~xt vQlup~io~ ~he rpa4er will 1144 nearli~ ~ll ment for the ecu re-table. Of the Poems
Amtitican.P~eij'y." themselves it Is needle~tospeak.".y~~~
that is W9rtlt r~ding ~fl                "In the arts of typography the volume is
our liter~- iIII5i1pss~04; theillrsstrs.~ioIss are numerous
Mt~Q. lIne d*nQ a eervioe tQ           d be~titif~, and thebinder's skill has done
ttsrewlve~nine len~itleshimtothe ito- ~
gar4 a fa~~of a ~isee 4gau4ind~Iual na1softhev~ol7u~ pp# 4~til~y of the alter.
pi~blic.Nt~ona~                                           Of    contents we will
'%~() b~ter s~i~$Q~ f~o'rt th~ poetry of ~not speak Ilippanti , nor is it needful that
oar "at~y !~r4e h~s ever been knuide, and 1V5 should say A*8ytbipg. The name Qf Mrs.
no person could ~o botret' With the mate-' Sigourney Is farnibar in evary cot1~age in
rials than Mr. Griswold huts 4pne?'-Bpat~un Amerlca~ She has, we think, been more
generally read than any poetess in the coun.
~LhZzssc4L                             try, and h~r pure famelsrevcrenlyo~lished
~HE                     by all."~.Jv~ ~ Picayun~
"It is Illustrated 'In the most-briljiant
POETS ANI) POETRY OF EUROPE: ~
W1I~H                    "In this production, however, they have
~         exeelled themselves. The illustrations are
r.       truly beautiful, andare exquisitely engraved.
t                  The entire execution of the volumes a proud
From s/is EarLieu Period to 5/is Preunt evidence of the growing superiority of book.
Time.                  making on the part of Amcrieanpulushers"
131 J~I~Y W. LOI~GPELLoW. ~*~0 Nesospaper.
"This work, so beautifully embellished,
In One Large 8vo. Volume, 75() PttgOe. and elegantly printed, containing the select
M*roc, e~~jant, $5 50,qr ~loth jilt, ~4 7d,~ writisigeofone of the most celebrated female
lYbleit d~tuiprl~~ranslations ~         poets of Macrle~, cannot fail fe bereceived
truly beautiful, end
!celazudi~,                        happrobat~p~,.
liw~     i*rlugtseee, 4o'~        are exquisitely 'Ingraved. They are frOnt
4esig,~s by DaIsy, who has risen to high
eminence in hIs dcpartmstt of art. The en.
"It is uhe snosteomplete work ot'~he kind tlreexecution of the volume is a proud evi-
ni Englisl~ Ii euuire"-Boseon Courier. 4enee of growing superiority in bookmaking
"A kp~t6 desirable work for the scholar on~the part of American publishers. And
at ~iof taste has searcciy ever bean iu~ this been Isp ayed upon a
sndla the Unlted~tates.'L-..N. Y. Tribune liberality has not d'l
10                                    t"- N. Y.Cbmmeroit4A~v.

NEW BOOKS
~QDNTLX PUBLISHED DY
A.. HART, late CAREY &amp; HART~
Yb. 126 (JIle8tnut ,S~reet, P1ii~ade~p1d4.
ftISTORIOAL ANIl SECRET KEMOIRS PROSE WRITER~ OF GI~RMANY.
or THE                      Br FREDERICK II. I3ZDGS~
E1~WB~BB 3O~~PmNI~,
(Marie Ross Teseluer do IaI'sgarle,)  ILLUSTRATED WITH EIGHT POIiTnAITS AND AN
rnssr wirn or NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.     ENGRAVED TITLE-PSOB, PROM A DESIGN
~y ~       iw. i. ~  l~oB.xluxqn.               BY LEUTEN.
Translated from tile French by Jacob if.  Complete in One V~lurns Octave.
Howard, Rsq.                           CouteuatB.
In 2 vole., 700 pages, muslin eba gilt. Luther, Iloshme, Steucta Clara, Moser,
"It possesses great intrinsic interest. It Kant, Leasing, Meutdelssolin, HamaanWie.
is achequered exhibition of the nndrees l~/~ land Musaus, Claudjus, Iiavater Jacobi,
of Napoleon. AU the glitter and pomp and Herder, Giethe, Schiller, Fiehte, Richter,
dust of glory which bewilder the mind is A. W. Schle el Sehleiermachet,; Hegel,
laid; and we behold not the hero the em- Zschokke, F. ~ciilegO1,
peror, the guide and moulder o? destiny, Schelling, lloffinann,
butapoor sickly child and creature of cir- "The author of this work-for it is well
cumstance-.-afrighted by shadows utad tor~ entitled to th~ name of ano~iginel produc-
tared by straws."-Pkitadi. City ltCt74 tion, though maini consistin of tran~la-
"This is one ofthemost interestin~iwork5 tions-FredertO~ Hedge ol Bangor, is
of the day, containing a multiplicity of in- 4uaiified, as fet~ men are in this c~mntry,
clients in the life of Josephine and her re- or wherever the English language ;s, writ-
nowned husband, which have never before ten, for the euccessfulacconiplishinent of
been in print."-N. Q. Times. the great literary enterprise to which he has
"This is a work of high and commanding devoted his leisure for several years.
interest, and derives *reat a4dit~onal value "Mr. Hedge hat displayed great wisdom
from the fact asserted by the authoressthat
the greater portion of it was written by the in the selection of the pieces to be trans.
empress herself. It has a vast amount of lated; he has given the best specimens of
information on the subject of Napoleon's the best authors, so far as was possibA in
career, with copies of original documents his limitedspace.
not to be found elscwherennd with copious "Weveuture to pay that there cannot b~
notes at the end of the work."-N. 0. Corn. crowded into the same compass a more
Bulletin                             faithful representation of the German mind
"Affords the reader a clearer insight into or~a richpr exhibition of 'the profoun4
the private character of Napoleon than he thought, sdbtlli speculation, massive learn.
can obtain through any other source,".- ing and genial temper, that characterize the
Baltimore American. most 6ilunent literary men of that nation."
"They are agreeably' and well written; -Harbinger.
and it would be strange if it were not p0, "What ~xc~l~ent ma~er we here have.
enjoying as Josephine did, familiar collo- The choicest gems of exuberant fancy~ the
quini intercour~ with the most distinguish- most polished productions of scholarship,
ed men and minds of the age. The work tlte richest flow of the heart, the deepest
does not, apparently, sutrerthy trs~uslatiQil." leps~nsof wisdom, all translated so well by
-B altimore Patriot.         -        Mr. Hedge end his frie~idg, that they seem
"It is the history-in part the secret his- to have been first written by-masters of the
tory, written by her own hand with rare Baglish tongue."-Tls4 City Item.
elegance and ibree, and at times with stir- "We h'ave read the book with rare plea.
passing pe~hos-ot the remarkable *oman
who, by the greatneesrif her spiritwas-wor- sure, and have derived not less information
thy to be the wife of the soaring N~spoleon. than enjoyment."-EtsickerbOCk~.
It combines all the value of authentic his- "The selections are judicious and tastefltl,
tory with the absorbing interest ofan auto- the biographies well written mm compm-
biography or exciting romance."-Item.  henslve."-Inguiru
11


FL

I

NEW BOOKS PUBLISHED BY A. HART.
NAPOLEON                      the charm of the narradve continues
AND                   broken to the en4."-~ity Item
The publishers have spared no pains or
TUE MAR~IIAL8 OF TilE EMPIRE         expense in its production, andthe best talent
in the country has been engaged cii its va-
Complete in 2 vole. lllmo.,    rious histories. The style is plain and gra.
With 1~'5t~e~Portrggsin Military Costume. phic, and thereader feelsihat We is perusing
true history rather than the ramblings of a
Contents.               'romantic mind.'L.Lady's Book.
Napoleon, 3ourdan, Serrurier, Lannes, "The resultof these joint labors is a series
Orune, rerignon,"Oudinot; SOuht~D~voust, of'narratives, in which the events succeed
Massent, Miirat, Mi~rtier Ney, Poniarow- each other so rapidly, and are of so marvel-
ski, Grouchy, Bessieres, I~erthier, Souchet, cue a cast, as to require only the method in
~t. Cyr, Victor, Moncey, Marmont, Mac- arrangement and the good taste in descrip.
donald, Bmuadoue, Augerean, Lefebvre, tion which they have received from the
Kellermanti. hands of their authors. The inflated and
The bio~rap1~ies arc twenty-seven ~ the Ossihnic have been happily avoided."-
number- N~apoleon., and his twenty-six Colo4ization Herald.
in arehals, being all those created by him- "Their historical accuracy is unimpeach.
and there~oret~epe pages have a complete, able, and many of them' (the biographies)
hess abdiit them which no other work of a are stamped with originality of thought and
similar design p~ss~~es~ ' ~ opinion. The engravings are numerous and
The style is clear and comprehensive, very fine. The bpok is well primed on fine
and thelmok mm~y be relied upon for histo- white paper, and substantially bound. It
rical accuracy, as the materials have been deserves a lace in all family and school
drawn from shurecs the most authentic. librariee."-.Bulletin.
The Conlrersationeof Napoleon, withiMon- "It abounds in graphic narratives of bat.
tholon, c~ourgaud, Las Cases and l~r. ~y ties, anecdotes of the world-famed actors,
Meara iteve all bee~i consulted as the true and valuable historical information."-ltich..
basis' upon which th~ lives of Napoleon mend Inquirer.
and' h~a cOmmanders uhdet~him should be mLWe 'receive, therefore, with real plea-
founded, sure, thisnempublication, having assurance
"The article&amp; on 'Napoleon, which ocen- that great pains have been takenin the pre-
'pies the grel~ier part of the first volume, ~ paration of each individual biography, and
written 'iii a clear and forcible style 'and especially in collating the various author.
d'isphiys marked ability in the author. Par- ties upon the earlyhistory of the Emperor.
tienlar attentioixhas been paid to the early There appears to be nowhere any attempt
portion of Napoleon's life, which other wri- to blind the reader by dazzleig epithets, and
ters have hiuwriedly dispatched as though the accuracy of construction throughout is
they were impatient tourrive at the opening highly credilablg to the editor."-Cornmtr.
glories of his gream'career."-1v. Y. Mirror. cial Advertise*'j MY.
"The lives of the Marshals and their "The style is simplicity itself, wholly free
Chief, the military p~ledins of the gorgeous from the' amusing pomposity and absurd in-
modern romance ofthe 'Empire,' are given flation that distinguish some of the works
with historic accuracy andwithout exag- which have gone before it."
gerutio~ of fact, style or languug&amp;'-saz..
timore Patriot. '~            that the   B R.Y A N
"We have long been convinced                       T'~     POEMS.
chi~r.acterof Napoleon would neyer receive
'even handed 'justices untilsome impartial It.LU5ILAThD DY TWDNVY SUPEiID ENGILAVING5,
and intelsigent American should undertake From Designs by fl. LEUTZE
the task cf~'weighing his literltp and deme-
rits. In the present volume this base been
done, with great judgment 'We do not       '        ~ j'o~' lIdS 'bImiw~
knovi~ the author of ~he'paper on Napoleon, 'ENGRAVED BY ~AT4ERICAII ARTISTS,
but whoever lie niny be, allOw us to say to ~ ~Zss Yelhem paper.
him that he has executed his duty better than
any Tretec~ssor.~t.-.' Zveining~Bulletin ' COMPLETh lit ONE VOLUME OCTAVO.
"The-style of this work is worthy of corn-
unenda~ion.-..plnin, pltuising and narrative, Sixth Editiou. (Just toady.)
the proper style of history and biography
ig which the 'reader does' not seek fancy PtiC#t $6A)t) bound fit scant!, gilt edges; or
sketches, and dshhing vivid pictures, 'b,~t betzUtifull7/ bound by 2. Moorti in calf
what'thc'work profndsu~tt~ contain, biogra.   ~ ~'~~?~'ai!I morocco, $7.00.
~hies. We commend -this as a valuable "This isreahly a sjdandld book, and one of
I4br~ryboo~c worthyof 'preservation as a the meet magnificent of-Carey &amp;Uart'scofleo~
work of reference, after having been res4." tion of"'The Illustrated Poets."'-...V'~ 2. (1k.
alt2Ameri,~.                         "~bte 'getting up' of this edition Is credit.
~ This is the clearest, most concise, nad sbhe~in'the highestdegree taThe publishers
most interesting life of' i'iapoleon' and his mid the lIne arts of the country. The paper
3n~rsbalsiwhichhfis yet been given to the bInding, and th~ engravings areall of' tile
public. Tae arrangement is-judicious and very beet klnd."...Inqzdrer and Cburie,..
12
FL                                                                  Li

(

NEW BOOKS I'UBLISIIED BY A. hART.
PflTER SCHL~MIHL.
DETER SCHLI~}MJllL IN AMERICA.
Complete in One Vokime; 12.n~i.
"The object of this work is to 'catch the" shown up, and the morals of the book a~e
manners living as they rise' in connection unexceptionablebl. The author cannot long
with the antagonisms of the present day- escape detection in~ spite ~oUh~s shadowy
'novelties which disturb the peace'-as Swe- coticealment, a~iA if~a new pr~edtioner he
denborgiiiliism, Transcendentalism, Fou- will jump to ~the head of his profession at
rierism, and other isms. The author has ouce,"-Godey'5, Lady's Book.
made these      the vehicle of valuable
pages                              &amp;e    pared ~       that Peter
information on all the topics of which he  "We   pre             clear and
~chlemihl is an ex~ee4ing$
has treated."                         well-written ~ork~-3hat the a~zthor ha~
"Peter, as ourreaders may recoflect, seld displayed a consid~erabl~ amount ~tf. book
his shadow to a Gentleman in Black, and lore in its coinposit6 tl~mttihc story is itt.
upon' this fable the American adventures teresting and iaatructi~ ~hat
are founded. The author, whoever he may been entertained and edifie4 by~ its perusal,
be, has read much, and been s't least 'a and thtit it possesses uierit* of mpre than
looker on in Venice,' .1 not a participatory ordinary character. We cordialyrQ09*
of the follies of fashionable life. macnd it to the reading corn unity,5in~e W~
"The theological and pn~itical criticism are sure that they will bdbnaefitted as well
is inwoven with a tale of fashionable life, as entertained b the rev4ilatioasCOiitSinSd
and the reader bec~omer not a little inZer~st- in 1~eter.,-~T1&amp;~ National ba.
ed in the heroine, Mrs Smith, whocertainly  the pages of
must have been a~ remarkable woman. It "A strangely coneived and ablyeXeCl~Cd
is neatly publisheO, and will be extenBively work."-~N. 0. Corn. Times. F
read ."-Buatt' ,i.                     "The work forms a consecutive tale, all
"We shal be greatly mistaken if this along which runs a vein of severe satire,
book does not kick up a whole cloud ~ and which at eveiy step is illustrated by a
dust."- The city Item.                vast deal of valuable iuformation,,aad the
"The work is characterized by much inculcation of sound pr.inciplesof morality
learning and sincere feeling?'-~-N. Y~I'4.irror. and religion. It is a work whichis adapted
"One of the most entertaining works we to do good, suited to all intelligent general
have read for many a day, as well as one readers, and a pleasant ompanioli fQrLthO
of the best written. Who the author is we scholar's leisure hours".~-.N~Y. Recorder.
know not; but we do know that the book "This is a 4'ery remarkable production,
will meet with a rapid sale whereverr an and unless we are really deceived, It is
inkling of its character leaks out. For from a new hand at tie li~ertiiy forge. We
watering places, or anywhere, during the have read e-very page ~f this thick volume,
hot weather, it is worth itswcight in-gold and have b~en~stronglyrelilillded of South-
we almost said. file full of everything of cy's great book, The Doctor, - Tim author of
the best, and you can scarcely open it at this work must lie a man of' close obeervM~
random without striking upon some sketch tion; much research, andif w&amp;are accurate
or dialogue to enchain the attcntioii."-Get'- in our estimate, he is a layman.
mantown Telegraph.                   'this came book will make a ~en~a~oa ia
"His stock of knowledge is large; andas many quarters, and will unqae5lioiably
his conscience is rectified by Christian create a'name and reputatiOn for its autbr,
principle, and his heart beats in unison who lbrthwith takes his p lace among the
with the right and the true, he uses his trea~ best and Ireenest wr~crS of our country. ~
sures o in formation only for good purposes. We commend it to the gravest and gayest of
"The book belongs to that class of novds our reads, and assure them that our own
which make an interesting story the me- copy~Lwiil' 'not go off cur table until another
* dium for the communicatioit.of important w~uter has passed. away."-N. Z 4llianeo
truth. In many respects it is a peculiar and Visrtor~
work, differing from all others in both da- "ThevdluliteChlltiot fairto bread exten-
sign and execution, and leaving the ~mpres- sively and d~ good. The popular 'isms' of
sion that it is the product of a mind of no the day, their folly and injariotis tendeitey,
ordinary power.   *    *    *   *     are descanted ~upon with mingled gra~tty
"Thosewho love t6 tln~nk andfeel, as the and humor" and considerable talent and
result of truthful thought, will read th~ook truthful' feeling are shown in the ~ipe~us~
withinterest andprolit.'~-~iI~flC  aEck-sion.' Whethet the bookhave ttainmediate
man.                                  run or not, the soundness of its views, ~1eli.
"A rare book. Who ix the world wrote vered with~ sown quaintness of style, will
itt Here are nearly five hundred pages inscre~ it permanent popularity."'-2V'~ Xor&amp;
with' gems oil every nue of them.' ~he Commercial Advertiser.
satii~', i~ equal to that of Don, Quixote or "Light, sportive, graceful raillery~ 81;
Asmqt~us. The hits at society in this pressed with terse and delicate ease.
country are admirable and w dated, "It is a novel of fun, with grave notes by
The humbugs of the day are skillful ly war of baIlast.".~-Cl4ristiatt BammitW1'~
13


PVdILISJIED BY A. HART.
Now ready, iii 1 vol. post Svo., price $1 2~, with ~'ortra1ts,
WASHINGTON AND THE GENERALS OF
L~VOLUT~ON.
BY VARIOUS~ EMINENT AI~JTIIORS.
eeN1.AINiNG~
DEegs'4~sMcA1 ~Ia4E~ea e~4' all A. .1?IaJe~. ~mnd Brl1~adier 6'snerala
qp/se e$Jsu~u4w ce mleuletue. (rgi~i~ Co.. jreae 4w~s~
Else 5.e#.sluUen..w JI'er.

WE hail Uiei0 tie~txtifttl volumes witi
nndisguised~Je1ight. They~supply, in a tug
nifiedanti coinprPhehsive form, valuz4dt
aaforina$lon which4iltbe sought with avi
dity i~*tonlyby th~ .&amp;metictin public, bu
by d~etjtttnir~e. 'The want ofawori
of ~
,..,,4~ ow this subject has lonI
Theenterprise ant
good tRst~Q~*$ST         and Hart havt
UiveR ri j~andsoWe and reliable ~
tltn1Es~ l~el%$~u~ in~duetry and talentanc
replete with ~CtV of the deepest interest
The~J4~erozpancing.-.no sehool-bo~
attetripte at rhetorical display; on the con~
trary, the wor~ is written-in a olear, ira.
aft~ctd businesa4ik~, yet beautiful man~
ner~ Tue nti~ors jiati the good sense to
think that th# stli~t1igavents of "the dines
tha~tried~meWss6uJs,".neede4ncernbellisb,
mciii. ~t4sapoa~lete, itnpardal, and well
written Itistery~ot' the American Revoin-
tion, and, atlhe~ sante tinte, a faithful bio.
graphy~ of the *sntt distingurehed actors in
that' great straggle, whose memories are
enshrineiiin our hearts. Therypographicat
qr.pcut~9u of~Jm worh is e~etleut, and the
sixtee~tpor4 t5Qit elee~ are remarkably
welt done. The Orst-v'olulne is enibel.
l~she4 with a;llfe..like ~,qrtralt of Washing-
ton mounted oi~ bis ~h~t~er~ freirk Sully's
p~t~tpr~'qtielling tita Wh~sky Riot~." This
is, we I~elevc, 4hp lIver engraving taken
front it. 'There are ~io~*bjihiee of eighty.
pglse General,, beginning ~itht~tlie Father
of bi~ pouittky," a citing with General
Ma~w~ll. To ~~rftjrlishthis Vlsk~ we
are s.s~urcd that "the a.ccessib~ePubhshed
and uipu~lis~re&amp;uiiemoirs, cdrrespondence,
and o~her tnater~alE relatlngfo the period,
have l~eea c~r~flzl~y e~umhied and faith-
fully relIected." We e~tnestl~boknmend
this wotk, It will be lbiind cix ~nnerrin~
record of t~' iuosthxteresr~ng portion o
iur history.-.-.The Cztij Itsm~ -
This wqdc tIltibra Amw Mv, I~eatIley's,
having nea~iy t~te ugme title, in ninny un-
portantparticitlave; aada~toricahpplq
is mt pior..-lW Z ~oi~i, Adtseru.ser.
Oe~rtainhy the mesa-comprehensive and
indiridualtzEd work that has LYof been
ptdplished en the subject'.~aoh member of
the great dramatic jersoaa~of the Revohr~
uona~ tragedy, stnnditir out in bold and
'~seulptus~ed~ aeliei on his own :glorious'
deeda.-Saturday Courier,
This wo~k is'a~ rery different affair from
t~se fipuhy aittl sujperficial book of the Rev.
3. 1'. fleatiley, entitled "Washingtosi and
the ~oaetals." it appears without the
14

name of any author, because it is the joint
production of n..nny of the most eminent
writers in the country, resident in various
states in the 'Union, and having, tVom the
esreumstance, access tQ original iflater:als
in private, hands, and to public archives not
accessible to any one individual without
I long journey anti much consumption of
time. The result, however, is a ~~inplete
niidauthentic work, embracing biographi-
I cal notices of everyone ~f the Revolution-
ary Generals. The amount of fre~h and ori-
ginal snatier thus brought together in these
mdderat~i.sized volumes, is not less sur-
prising than it is g~atifyusg to the historical
reader. Thi~ will become a standard book
of reference, and will maintejn its place in
libraries long after the present generation
shall have enjoyed the gratificnt~on of pe-
rusing its interesting pages, exhibiting in a
lively style the personal adycutuves and
private~ characters of the sturdy defender~
of American Independence.-.-Scpts', Weel,~ly
Newepaper.
The author's name is not given, and from
what we have read, we presume that va-
rious penshavebeen einploy~d inthese in.
terestingbiographies. This is no disadvan-
sage, Ixit, on the-contrary, ~decided benefit,
for it insures greater accuracy than could be
looked for in such a series of biographies
written by on~ person iu a few months.
The volumes arepttblished in a very hand-
some style. The first silty pages are oc-
cupied with ~the biography of Washington,
which-is written with force and elegance,
and illustrated by an original view of the
character of that great man. * * * The
number of the biograph;esin the~e volumes
is much ~eater than that of Mr. Headley's
work. There areeighty.cight distinct sub.
jects-..N. Y. Mirror.
We have read a number of the articles1
find them to be Written With ability, and to
postess a deep interest. The author has
~mariifested excellent judgment in avoiding
all ambitious attempts at what is styled
~Jlre u~riting; bin gives a connected recital
~f the important events 'in the lives of his
horace. The work will be highly interest-
lug and~ valuable to all readers-partico-
lariys9 to yoath, who are aways aitracteti
by biographies, If a Aither wishes to pre-
sent to his sons noble instances of uncor-
rupted and inctirruptible patriotism, let him
p lace ihis*ork its their hands., It should
have a place in every American library,
and is timongtliei~ost valuable bookeof the
season.-Balsimore American.

~1EW BOOKS PUBLISHED BY A. HART.
MORF~T'5 APPLI~P C~MI8TRY.
A TREATIS!I UPON CH~I1YXI$TRZ,
IN ITS 4~PIIOATXOIf TO TE~ K IU~&amp;C~URE 01
SOArS AN]) GANDLE~.
BEING A. THO~O~~GE E~O~ITJO~ ~)P Triri flIWOIPI~BNAN~ 1'IIAOTXCS aWxi~EK TRADU
IN ALL THEJI MINUflZ~ BASED UYOM ~H1 MOST ILBCBN~I' I~IS~$!PW~ XII
SCIENCE9
J3Y CAMPBELL MOR~FIT,' -
IRACTICAL AND ~ANALTTICAL Rtf~$T~:
With 170 Eugravings om Wo@#. -
This work is based upon the most axcvrr xuxscovm~s xxi Soivxicu ~m
m Mw, and presents a thoroug)i exposition of the princi~le~ and Ir~O~eE of the trade in
all their nu;tuttis. The eE~%erjence and ability of the aU hovha4etthbled~hitRt to produce
A MORE COMPLETE AND COMPBIIHENSIVE BOOR U~OU the subject gxaU~ny~taitt. The;whole
arRn.g.merit is designed with a view to the scientific enlighten entas well as the in-
5triiCiOR of tjejnp.ruttboturer, and its contents ara such as to teiplet itbot only A STAND.
lARD GUIPE BOOR TO TEE OPERATIVE, but also an authoritative work o~tefetence for. the
~xix~ ~un 8vuu~nT.
An examination of the annexed table of contents will show the invaluable riuefuttiess
of the work, the practical features of which are illustrated by upwards of oxm
4N~) SIRTY ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD.
2'hefollotiplng synopsis embrace. only the main heads of each CAa1)te.~an4 Parurapli.
Cxs4'. 1. Introducftrny Remarks.                Spatmaceti, Delithinilte, ~eat6
"   2. ~7heDi~nit~( the Art and its Re.       feet OiL
cfesace.          Cgsi. 17. The (Tonst~'hents of Fats, their
" 3. .L4lnity and Chemical Bqui~~ . P~qperties anti Qomp~tsxtton:
lenti:-E~qilanation of.               $teariu~  Stetrie Acid and
"   4. Alkahie.s.-Lnne, Pot~ssa, Soda,        8alts~i~argar.ine1 l~argarao
A,~monia.                             Acid an&amp; Salts; (Plain, Ole4e
"   5. Alkalimaerv.                           Acid and Salts; CetineCetyhc
"   6 Acids.-Carbonic, Sulphuric, fly-        Aniil; Phocenine, Phocenie
drochioric, Nitric, Boracic.          Acid and S~lts~ Butyrine, Due
Aciditnetry.                         tyric Acid ~nd Salts~ Ca~roic,
"   7. Origin and Composition of Fatty        Capric Acid;, Hi~cine, Hircie
Matters                               4cid~ Cholesteririe
"    8. Sapot4/lable Ft~ts...-Oil~ of Al.  "  18. Basic t~4onefitupxfs iif Fats:-
mond, Oliv~e, hitistard, &amp;ech,     ;- ~31~rcerin. ~thal.-~
PO~py1 Rapesecd, Gra~eseed; " 19. Theory of Sayonj/icatio*.
Nut Oil, Linseed Oil, Castor " 20. Ueertsils:-Stean&amp; Series Buga.
Oil, Palja Oil, (processes for        diersQrLeYValS,~npi~'t!~flO5,
bleaching it;) Occo Butter,           Caldroris, to.
Nutmeg 7B     Gal~ Butter,          The Systtnttzed arrangement for
Athamantine.                          # Soai~ Fuctor~v.
"   8. Adisteeratirm.of Oils.            22., Rcmark~*,.-. Preiiminaryto the
~t 10. Action of Acids upon Oils.             Process for hlakihg Soap.
11. Volatile Oils..-The Properties of, " 23. Hard 'S6aps:- "Caning Pro-
anti their ~pplicahihty to the        OesSV' Comparath~e Vahie of
Manufacture of 5oaps.               ~ Olte anti ~    $oap iiagretU-
"   12. Volatile Oils:-Their~Origin anti      cut *iitt~Ta~les; White, Mot.
Composition  T~bIe of their           tt4 M~tse$l1es~ Yellow, Yan.
Specific Gravities.         .              ai,4E~glishV~ellowapd
"   13. Essen~iai Oilr:-.~ The Adultera-      ~Whh.SeapCOcoSoaj~, Thins
dons of, and the modes ~f~de.        Soap, TButter Soap, Ez~gbsh
tooting them.                         Wiftd~r ~a~,Fr~enc~ Wind.
"   14, Wax~..4ts PropErties and Gotn~        nor So~j~ .4zialyseiof So~p~.
position.                    "   24. Froc~s* ferJ~aian~
"  15. Resins:  Their Properties and          partiui6n~of th~ JJ~e~s, Emna.
C~mpoaition; Colophony and           tsge~ Reiarga~e, (Jeetion, Moi-
U ii. Animal Fats and Oils:.-.Lar4 '~ 26. ~'xtsm~M~ e~tns' ~
MuttqnSit~t, Beef.tallowBeef-        Me4n~in~l "~1swe~" "Mi.
rn~~row,13one.fatSoftp.grea50,       qtter;"~nd uroe&amp;K~tiaps
Oil.lees, Kitchen~.stulUHtlrnan- *' 26. Siltcdted Boats :.-~ Fliuit S~I4.
fat, Adipocire, Butter, Fj~heOll,     ~ADtannn $payis~in~Qa~~
16

-V


I
7J~
U

I

~EW BOOKS PUBLISHED BY A. HART.
Ctax'.fl7. Pitent Soaps.-Dextrinc, Sauna-       Modes of Ren          Fat;
tedSonps, Soap from Hardened          "Wil~on's Steam ~anL.
CnAp. 42.     ~-,Their use and~tction.
98. And~erson~i Improvements.              Cutting Machines
29. SoftSoaps:.-.Process fofMaking, " 43. Of the Manufacture of Candies.
Cro~ra Soaps, '~Savon VerL" " 44. .Dipped Candles:-Improved Ma-
" 80. ~                                       chincry for facilitating their
Manufacture.
"   31.~Ft~auds in Soap Mtsldng and   "  45. Material of Candles  Process
4' ~     .Pd~ans.(b~4hew Det~csion,           for Iniproving its Quality.
Xamt~lj &amp;aj)s, Masius Soap. Me-  "  48. M~ulded Candles:- Improved
tallied .S'oaji&amp; 4mmon:acal$oap.       Machinery for facilitating their
"   33. Soap fre.t~ Volatile Oils :-Star-    Mairefa~ture.-"Vaxeme," or
ky's So~p, Actioti of Alka~es         Summer Candles.
upon Es!entialOils.          "f 47. Stearic Add Candles:-Adasuant-
"  34. "Saven~ 4ci45,,W or Q!eo-acidu-        inc and Star Candles.
lated Sodj,~  '  ~  '        "      Stearin Candles:-Braconnoz's
'*  $S.~W$let~eaps:-.-Puriftcation  of        and Morflt's Process.
S~apsAdedxed Soap, Cinna-   "  49. Sperm Candles.
stao  ~      Orange. flower,  "  110. Palmine, Palm We; Coca Can.
~~teuzoln, Cologne,         7  dIes.     :-Modeot Blea h-
Soaps, Trans-           lug the War, with drawingsof
pa~nt ifoaps    ~oaps, Sun.              apparatus
ring 4~reain; Rem~rks.               for; Bougies, Cierges, Flamn-
36. .4reometers and Thermomeurs :-.-  -    beaux.
their use and value.         "  -52. Patent Candles : -.--" AzOtized"
37. Weights and .lkfeasures.    1          Movable Wick an4 (*oddards
"  38. GentIles.                   I          Candles; Candles on Continu
"   89. Jlllsisi nation.          1          ous Wick; Water and Hour
41. flats IPateria~ for Candles:  "   ~       gin,         Candles.
40 PAilote  y of Flame.                   inry.
Concluding Remarks. ~Vocabu-
Tq~ma~-A'1e boe~ is handsomely printed, with large type, and on goodthick paper,
Zn ati octaviPvolume of upwards of five hundred pages, the price of which is $5 per
copy, neatly heund in cloth silt, or it will be forwarded by mail free of postage iii flexible
coveni, on receiving a remittence of ~5. (A limited number only printed.)
Two VOLUMES, TWRLVE XUNDUED PAGES~ EMEELLISH~D WITH NUMEROUS
ENGRAVINOS,, ~EW BDITIO~. PRICE $4, CLOTH, GILT.
W~ATSOJ'&amp;: ANNAi~s ,, OF PNILADELFRIA AND
PEWN~YLYAiuA IN THE OLDEN TIME.
BEINtI ACOLtl4/TIoN OF MEMOIRS, ANECDOTES, AND INCIDE~lTS OF THE CITY
AND ITSINHABITA.NTS.
AND OF THE
Earliest Settlememe of the Inland p~trt of Penns3#lvaniafrom'the daye of the
Lxhibit INTENDkD ro Pnnsintva ~F~uudere. or orjrnrr ring, A~) TO
Society its~hauges~of Manners and Custores, and the City and Country
In their Local Changes used Improvements,
BY JOHN F. WATSON,
3%ember of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania, and Roitorary Menibor of the Historical
Soeletics of New York and Massa~husetts.
Rsvxr.w Norrcza.-"Thls is a great.curl- history, In one general vlow-vague, glim.
oslty. S~oii a 'book ~ never before been ~' mering, indistinct." "Thisis In truth a work
pl~odnoed In the Unlted$tato~ The 4nnsllat without e~amuple for Its imitation, and with
willezijoy ~inpecrlessfame,-.wstrust his work equal 'truth it i~ in execution a work Sum
Will be uulvei-sallyhoeghtandread." "No generis." "It is a museum that will never
cOpy of this ~.iab~ecoh~ribution to our of the country and the patronage of the
eariy American hi~tou~y?'~ "It seems to con- reading coremunity. It will furnish the
*mnericau whocan fund ibotild be ~ithopt a cease to attract. 'Itdeserveg the gratitude
vey. hack to other tiines-~-w~ see thingeas historian, the biographer, and the patriotic
they were-ininutely arid partzculai'ly, and orator,,with matter to adorn and beautify
not as presented In stately and buskined their productiOns."
17

A. HART'S PRACTICAL AN~ $CIENTIFIO WORK$.
AMERICAN COTTON SPD~NER,
MANAGERS' AND cARDERS'~U1pE:
4 i~ACTICAL TREATISE ON COTTON $Pl1fNfl~G.
Compiled from the Papers of the late ~pbei ~. ~eird.
In One Volume, Cloth Gilt, Price $1.
"This Is a practical age, and it demands ~ "'ThoAfoe$c~1OPttOTh8plflPOr8UdM&amp;~
praottoal books. Of this class is the manual gore' and Oaders' 0~lde,' * prastioM treatise
before us, addressing itself toa rapidly grow- ~on cot ol~-splnxdag, gIving ~the easjpns
Ing interest among us, and one, upon the and ppse4 %f bluer dra4ghtand twist
prespsrl.tyQfwhlohAePends, In a great men. ealeu1atio,1S~ ~., ~vtth uot~ces of recent iu~-
s~iro, ~ho destiny of the Squth. We have too pr~veme*its, tog4e~ $th xtIte~ s~n4 9Z-
tong committed the. fatal error of allowing am plea for mahin~ ~hs~~0s In the siSQ of
Kortlzernmannti'.ctOries.tOcOnvert ourstaple rovI~~ axi&amp; ~ Thi~ wbr~ is ~io~npi)e4
Into the fabrics werequire for.use~ losing by from papers of the~ato flobert IL ~tiI, w~Il
the proceaaalltheeXpen5e5OfadoUblOtrSII5~ hnown as an exi)ett QO*tOnWi*Ui5~ an4 wiil
portatioii~ thoprofite of 2n~nufacturlng, and p~ovoofgreatser~O o0*toh.fl~Ower~ will-
sundry Inoldetital eoata of Interest and ox- ownelu, tind cc ~nh~r~.TbI~boQk will
change. With the increasing attention to undoubtedly meet w1tl~ ~ti ektenslieiale In
manufactores In the South, arises the need the South, Irhere atteiitiOii is beglntilpg to
of information upon all their appliances and be tu~ned In etirii~i5t to inn oh~ring as
kjng, and niucb;thati0 valuable of this well as gi~owing wtto~"-1b~uotIag-rOQm
nature tefotind in the bookbefora us. Mr. .TounutL
~alrd was an expert and successful cOtton- "This is one of the in4~st i$e~esEing and
spinner. His experience and observations valuable 6f then eZ4~Jel4iitjiQ $reat~ses
~re here q~orded to his foliowoperativos, on barieal~~d ~
combined with the modern improvements in which have be~n pubIislte~L b~lr.Uart-
inoohanlesatad methods. Nointelligentinan The consfritbtio~ &amp;dd*i~ing oX' a cotton-
at the pryont day builds without 'counting factory are thoroughly explained. 11u114-
the cost,' or e~tpr~ upon a field of labour. ings, main gearIng~ water-wheels, picking
without a coniprebensive knowledge of its a~~l spre~~~ng 4nachines, cards and ding,
eapabUlties ~and ~?equIremtnt5~ To those dtawmg jti~faspoe~er~, thot~e5lindlkiuIe
proposing to ereet small factories, or now spinning, are *oia discussed, and to
sondneting them, the tr~atlse before us could those engag~4 b~ ~iepreiiuntlon of cotton
not fail to beef service, If wellutudled, and: goods, the voJui~e must ~e ~xcee4~ngly use-
to sashwe ~,oinmend it.~' utter*Litsius'y fuL TopoIitlti~l e onohll4end others, who
feel an interedtln th~ great ~ogress of pur
"Had we spice wesnight goon to state a count hstoric,&amp;*dstatIsticitlpOrtio~i5
number of other equally interesting andim- of thebeek ~dll also beo~valui.
portant f~ts~ The workfrom which kunok "'~&amp; ~7O, there were exporte&amp; to salver-
of the foregoing istakeuinpnbliehedbyMr. pool from I~ew V~cr~ three bsg~ of cotton
A. Hart, and Was compiled chiefly from the wool; froi~ V~an4 l!~ry~and, ~oi~x
papers of the late Robert H. Baird, well bags; sn~Ifre'n ~ (l~rolIne,, t~xee box'.
known as an expert cotton-spinner. It Is reis. La~tye*ir Zlpaland paid #71,9&amp;4A10 to
gratifying to see thatuc inSpectable a house th~ United ~e~ jjb~ raw cotton, whiob eum
as that of Mr. Hart has undertaken the pub- inxelnalve~fl~at paWtoptberQ~~po~i'
licationofbcoks of~thls kind, for we bellere ing notions, ~~1~dG tbe~rst
thatour operativessbollld possess athooreti- was erected lii I~a  It, 4sla~d. In
cal as well ae peaci4cal ~~~owJedgc of their 18~*~e ni~nber eY 4In41~s In operation
several trades. ~l~ls work gives the dimen- was ~otii ~5O%),Q()W These facts ~
sbus ~ sleed4 machinery, draught tind an~%~ thOst elju4avldqns~es of the un~
twist ealcillatinnt, with hotleSs of the most oxamplod progress and~ p~~po~lIy of the
recent lmpiOlrcments. It must prove nsa in- country, sn~ q~wot ha considered without
valuable handbook to the snauufacture3?."- eta6tlons of pride apd g float on."-1V; x
G~tewn~Tek~graph.                      ()~i~$al .4dverizqer~
"As the treatise now stands, It Is a most "It Iscompiled I~rom the papers ef the late
completed practical guide in thespinning Robert ~i. lislid, wall known as an qxpe~t
ofootton. It giventhedlmeusions and speed cotton.spinner~iud~forws * pr~tial treatise
of machinery, ~draught. and~ tWist ealcula- reistive to spb~ning in a its departments
tiolis; ~o~ethar with ~u1ei and exkmple5 for alld rel~itlons~ the dlnip~ston5 and spee4~ of
making ehatigos In the size and number of machinery, draught and twIst~alcalations,
roving yarn. The work will be found of &amp;o&amp;c.,which cannot but e~sexnen4 Itself to
value, equallybyoperatlves and mill-owners, the favourable attentlnn of all~ connected
with this Important ~usnuf~oturing lute-
It is l~ued4'i ~ very neat stylo."-4rtht'r'* rest."-.LVbr~k 4urac~~ee.
Cl


A. hART'S PRAOTIOAL AND SCIEN~rIrIo WORKS.
MANJJFAOTUX OF STEEL                                    THE
Pritwzples of LONDON YEAI~U8OOK OF FACTS
A~D
~r                                       8OIENOE, FOR 1851.
~3nKI~G
Author eE "~au~faet~pe of iron," &amp;e.              BY JOHN TIMB5.
C)~WLITflIN QN~ VOLUMIIL            Complete in one volume, S2Opager, clot4 gill.
PRICE $1.'
Witk Emjravingr~ clot/s gill. Price 25 ~ The Year-Book of Facts in Science and
"The author of this book is a Practical Art, exhibiting the most important dis-
mining engineer, ai~d what h~has to say on
the subject of which he treats, is therefore coveries an~t improvements of the past year,
entitled to eo~splderatiQn.".....Coia Advertiser, in mechanics and the useful arts, natural
"4~ vahi~ble and ahncet iXdI~pensable philosophy, electricity, chemistry, zoology,
and botany, geology and geography5 meteor.
h~nd.book~for all Worhels laEteel ~ip4 iron, ology and astronomyy. By John Tinibs,
~uch~as hiackemitlis, cu~le1'i die sinkers, and
m~nitacti~,ers of varie~us'fndsofl,~dware editor of the 'Arcanaof Science and Art,' in
~l~iz~ man of ~cIence, ts Welt as the artisan one neat volume; price $1.
will lind maci) valuahle~i~ormat1on in Mr: ~ contains a mine of information In mat.
Overman's Book.".....4rejj~j.s~ Home ~ tore of Science and Art."-..&amp;zturcia1 Gbeette.
"OareTull~t prepared,~nd therefore well "There Is a great deal of we1l.aigest~j in-
adapted for the purpose. ,~ It is illustrat~.j by formation In this ~oluine, exhibiting the
chiner~.".-..No,. ~meracan. atu8 an4 ma- most important discoveries In the Sciences
figures explain of appar and Arts during the past year. In looking
"A. Hart, Phiis4elphia, has published over it, oneis surprised at the progress mak-
'The Manufacttne of Steel,' by 'Frederick ing in these branches, and ljs order to keep
Overman. ~rhls works not Only of int~srest up with the age, such a bo,~k ethics Is abso.
to blacksmiths and workers in steel and lutely necessary." ening Bulletin.
lrop, but to mes~:~f science an4 art. ~t is a "Such a volume commends Itself BulB-
most thorough l)6~kicommeacing with forg. ci~ntly to public favour by Its title. The
In~, and treatln~ the Subject throughout in importance ofpossessing it is apparent at a
ing G~cite. glance, since the knowledge of a single one
an able manner. "-BOeton Even           of these facts, or isew discoveries in science
THE                    and the useful arts, may very ~ssibly be
~worth in cash to the buyer ten times the
price of the book."-..&amp;ows Weekly.
MOULDER'S AND FOUNDER'S "The tYear-Book of Facts' is another of
Mr. Hart's excellent publication&amp; It is a
POCKET GUIDE.                 reprint from the London edition, and ox-
Dy Frederick ~                  habits the most important discoveries and
improv~amente of the year 1851, in arts,
xrrzrse )lttGIrLsEn.       soleness, and mechanics. It is just the
WITH FORTY.TWO WOOD ~ volume to have handy to take up when a
l2mo, 252 pages, cloth gill. P,~im 88 (~erf5 few, spare moments present themselves,
"The moulding of iron for useful purposes which might otherwise be ununproved"...
Is one of the most ~xteuslve pursuits of ~e -Boston Evening G~eette.
elety. ~ oom~aratlvcl The Year-Book of Facts' is a work of
few w6t.kswhich present a cleat., intelligible~ established char
and Simple statement of the branches of tW' Intl feel acter,;and American readers
indebted to Mr. Hart for reproduce.
art, so as to be readily understood by all. ng it in a convenient and handsome form,
The Present worli seea,.B tD~5upp1y ~ ~ ~ on
"This volume is prepared on the Same
plan as that oti Cotton Spinning, and has a
nurnberotwod~,~ ~t mnustprove Dictionary U ART'S
of Arckite.~ture,
a book that has Jont been heeded, and we
know that It 4U1 be extensively circulated." A Diriotori of Architecture, Historical, De.
ermangosun Telegrap/s. scriptive, Topographical, Decorative, fl7a~o-
"The 'Moulder's and Founder's Pocket retail, and Hechanical, aphabeticaily
Guide,' published byA. Halt, is a treatise on cerranged~, familiarzy explained, amed
moulding and ibunding in green sand; dry ada.ited to the comprehaen*io~ of
sand, lo~am, and cement, the moulding of gas,-
chine-frames, mill-gear, hollow-ware, orna- BY ROBERT STUART,
ments, trinkets, bells, and~ statues, with re-
ceipts for alloys, varnlshe~ Colours, &amp;c., by ~ An0usm~i SF1? QIVIL ENcIFssn.
Frederl~,k Overman, mining euigineer. The ustrated by one thousand Drawings et
~work is ll1us~rated with forty-two wood-cuts, SubJects referred t~ In the work.
and It gives plain and practicti descriptions Oompl~te inS t.olumes 8vo., bound in two.
tat' these most useful arts.".-...p~j~j~e Ledger. "A most excellent work for practical men."
22

/

A ""
"'A

A. HART'S PRACTICAL AND SCIENTIFIC WORKS.
MISS LESLIE'S                      HORS~1VLANSHIP.
ATi1T'(~       Ilt' flli IIITII        AfethodofHorsemuznship, founded upon new
NEW nLu~iiri BO(IK. 4pritzcipies: including the Breaking and
Training of Horses, with instructions
"A USEFUL OUWE FOR LARGE 011 SMALL             for obtaining a good &amp;at.
FAMILIES.                    ILLUSTRATE WITH ENGRAVINGS.
.New Edition, Enlarged. 1 Vol. l2ino., 400       BY F. BAUCH1I~U,
pages.                 TRANSLATED muse THE NINTH PARIS EDITION.
PRICE    $1.                      Cloth Gilt. Price $1.25.
"Miss Leslie's 'Complete Cookery' is per- "Here is something which looks like a
haps better known than any similar collec- system of horsemanship, We have often in.
tion of receipts. The very elegant volume melted over the wrongs done to horses, and
before us is designed as a sequel to it, and wondered if there were no better iiieans of
should be its companion in every family. It conveying our Wishes to 'the animals than
contains directions for 'cooking, preserving, by brutally belabouring them with a whip.
pickling; and commencing with soups, gives Bauche~s method has one great merit; it is
new receipts for every course of an excellent humane. His Instructions ar'. conveyed by
dinner, to the jellies and eonfectionary of the a series of gentle checks and impulses, which
dessert. Besides this, there are directions so far from tiring the horse, only tend to
for perfumery, miscellaneous receipts, etc.. bring out his latent powers and bettor in-
and the celebrated 'Indian Meal Book,' stiucts, through an intelligent course of ex-
which embraces every method in which that ercise. Ba*ucher's method has proved highly
most valuable staple can be prepared Our successful in France, not only with the track-
readers are no strangers to the accuracy and horses of the ring and the gentleman's hack-
minuteness of lanes leslie's receipts, as, since ney, but with the cavalry of the army.- It
the first number of the GazOtte, she has con- ha~ also been extensively adopted in the
tribute to our housekeepers' department. Prussian service; and Baucher received a
This is the more noticeable, that she has no diamond snuff-box, and other marks of
~other similar engagement with any family favour, from the Ring ofPrussla, together
paper. The new receipts in this volume are with many commendatory letters from the
admirable. Many of them are modified from officers of his army. We und0rstaud, from
French sources, though foreign terms end the translator's preface, that all the astonish-
designations are avoided. The publisher has ment which we bestowed on lIen. Welch's
brought at out In an extremely tasteful horse 'May-fly,' 1'&amp;adame Loyo and her stud,
style."-&amp;zturday Garette. was due to the instructions of Baizeher. No
"Mr. A. Hart; Fourth and Chbstn'ut ets., further proofs am needed of the practical
has just published a new edition of Miss workings of ~' ~gstem~ which can perform
Leslie's Beceipt Book for Cooking. This is a such wonders with' horses. The present
truly popular work. Thousands of copies translation is finely gotten up, and contains
have already been disposed of, and other many neat Illustrative engravings. The
thousands will be needed. It contains direc- translator's part appears to be well and
tions for cooking, preserving, pickling, and carefully 4otie, 'while its vabte Is increased
preparing almost every description of dish; by number of original uiotos, explaining the
also one hundred and twentyrecipes for pro- technicalmeaning oftheFrench stable-terms.
paring farina, Indian meal, fancy tea-cakes, A book on a subject so Interesting to eques-
marmalades, &amp;c. We know of no more use- trians cannot fail to be pop~lar."-Inqairer.
ful work for families."-In2uirer. "This work Is certainly ealculatc4 to pro.
ducs sensation among those 'whose talk is
of horses.' It is singular that the present
should be the first english' translation 9f a
historyy, Structure, &amp; Statistics work which has passedthrough nine editions
Iu Paris, has been reprinted again and again
of Plank Roads                in Belgitam, and has he~ntriOaslated into
both Dutch and~Germsn. 'Of the great value
IN THE                 of Baucher's system no ojie, who has given it
UDJITED STATES AND CANADA. attention, can have'a reasonable doubt. Its
great merit is that it can' properly be 'called
BY W. KINGSFORD,            a system based upon admitted principles-
Civil Engineer onthe Hudson River Railroad. I a collection of philosophical rules-.
in General, ~, ,~, and that Itis capable of tbe most extended
With remarks on Roads                development.     l~aucher, a 'man pf no
Ci. gkin,~-,~ and a Letter on Plank common vanity, contb~ses thatby pu~sulng
Roads, by Hon. Chas. E Clarke. his xwethod, the horse's education may be
Price 110 Cents.           carried far beyond any resultX*hiah he baa
yet obtained. further devele~pmenst0 would
"Those who desire Information upon the indeed be profitable to the circus, and eu~l-
subject so fully treated of in this pamphlet, ous to the naturalist, as proving the extent
could ~ot do better than purchase and read of the anImal's sagacity, under propci~ plan
lt."-,Saturday Post.                   of instruction."-Bulletin.


A. IIART'5 MISCELLANEOUS WORKS.
Anne Boleyn: A         Tragedy. ~i~oe~s~o; of the late flrino  Hart."...

A. EART'~ MI$OELLANEOUS WORKS.
THE

TB NII~TKS ~IIiUITII,.
AND
OTHER MISCELLANEOUS POEMS.
BY t*EO~ I~. BOJUIB,
Autho? of "C~hu~noS,~" "Anne Bo-
leyn," "The Betroth~,S~ &amp;c.
oris voa. lBxo., morn GILT.
PRICE 62 CENTS.
"It always gives us pleasure to welcome

a new volum~ of poems, by this author, to
our table. Ho is one ot the few Americans
who write with care. He is, nioreover, a
townsman. And, withal, lie possesses the
poetic t1icnlty~ in a veryhigh degree, and is.
destined to go down to future times crowned
with 'Immortal bays.' Indeed, lii meay re-
spects, Mr. holier has no living rival
"The principal poem In tire volume before
us is 'The Podesta's Daughter,' a dramatic
sketch of rare merit. In compositions of this
character, Mr. holier excels; but he never
published any thing superior, or, in some
particulars, even equalto this. The story is
that of two lovers, who from being children
together, become iln4ly passionately at-
tached. But whiletlie youth is heir to a
haughty lineage, the maiden is the humble
daughter of the podesta, a disparity of rank
that affor4sthe eiithor materlaloutof which
to weave his touching tragedy. The delicate
skill with which the twoprlncipal0h5*!actPr~
are rested, Is worthy of ail praise.
" We take leave otthlsvoluine with regret.
Its elevated tone, its 'delicacy of thoi~ght, Its
chastened style, there ~f some passages, the
sweetness of oth5r~, and last, but not least,
the loft.~ Ideal of womanhood which prevails
throughout; whether in the dramatic orlyric
parts, have sweete~ied, for a brief sptce, the
exacting toil and dry details of ajoufnalist'5
"The volume Is very neatly issued, and
does credit to Mr. ilart, the publiSher."-
Rvenitsg Bulletin.

CLARA:
on,
~ from~7w FrelwIs of Jfddame
Guizot.
ClOTH tIILT. PitICIE ~O OTS.
"If this work for ycAith has ~ot a brilliant
title, it cait dlaim to bewrltteu bye 1lriJ~rnt
woman-a ~roman of fore sensthllllfea and
motberjysyinPathies, whO~e judg~eat is as
capable of guiding as her chra*sos arc capable
of attracting~ Amidstther5stofHl~rt'U p4b
liestions, t~lsmay be compared to aslilMiowy
leaf in a brilliant chraplet of the rarOst
flowers."-Cith' Jtein.

l

ARABIAN NIGK~S' ENTERTAINMENTS,
As re&amp;ztecl b Jfotherjbr the amusement
of her Qfttldren.
Wl~!H rOtTY EfStGRAYINGS lit EUTLfl~ 7110K
pnslons Dx J, QILBE~T.
CWTIl GILT. ,flIOI~ ~0 OIl~TTS.
"Let every parent buy this little volume.
The pomp and glory of these wonderful
storleswhlch coul&amp;eren beguile the l~aagl-
natinitnindof theradlant East, were never
so beant ullyunfOldS&amp;t(t the view o~ chil-
dren. ~ of the
child presented with ~the ,bove beautiful
editloili whl~h Is a capital speolmeit ~f the
taste and              publisher." City
1tesi~'~
ROBIN HOOD
*            arms
MFR/?Y FURE6'TERJ',
BY S~FEPBEN l'WWY.
P~t, Ofoth gilt.
"Here is anotbe~ beoli foy the ju~e$les,
at needs no riling. All the el~li4rea ol~
nonh tore suchabookwillWSiitthIS
an ifal little volun~e~ufliL40!es'V
Gazette.

4

'V

BY HENI~Y JAMES SLACK3 F. 9,8.
(Of the Mid 1e~emple.),
ELEGANTLY l'EiNT~P. 0011?f*I ~ OEB VOL.
OWTE 0lLT~ *
"This little bpoli is ft~J1of r~ch and leauti
ful hou ht ud. th~t it may speak for It-
seg we e~tr~4 4Mt4~~tlt ~VOT~atlOU, Its
teaching re~4n4s na qt~V 3#i~$~ osL8elt~
culture? lnwhlch hee orce~th(lave Qf the
beautiful~si&amp;9eUt~le          upr~&amp;by
3~iviae be~e~ehc0 sp.~r~evy ~ wlthi~i
the reacil of alli; aeapa~ty ~
seas, a~d wl4qb~ ~
enpan51OU~ '       s~h*wost.       tWo
of a             ug~OTli
j5jo~%tYtepOW~Wqfg
velatlona t~ .Aevat4 o~r poxice~W of the
grandeur end vastnesS $ creative owev,
wisdom, a'~4 go64noss.'~~.lVhC
5"Thls little worli Is fiiU of poetry-but
poetl7 that every ro &amp;enperieue@5, and by
wind ~s influenced
which every. o~ nature, i# ~t traus-
lates the voice             makes,, eletir
those dictates wblch come ~om ~ur hearts,
wl~ere lies buried of ithues the ~s~es~.key
of knowledge,' andlncu~~atc5 a love of the
beautIfi4.~'5~OflP~sS'~0 (~l745tt6.
TALES PRO~Ii TIIIDI


A. hART'S MISCBLLANJI~OUS WoRx~s.
27d. JAy isp .hed, in one vol. 273 pages, the 1?ecentl~, ~,ubZiskecZ in one t~ol~ ~70 ~age&amp;: J~
2'Isird Edition, pi-ice 60 cents~ of    .~ftA               dents, of
RENA~                            ' LINTIA~.
TH~                W.~DIuD.                            OR, THB'
A9AXJEO1R~AL LIFE.               YOUNG PILOT OF THE BELLE CREO'.E
~Y ~                  HENTZ               A TALE OP SOUTHERN LIJfIL
"A unman7 ele~er tale, that by its Ey Mrs. CAROLINE LEE HENTZ.'
sprightliness,~ Its elqsz. delineations of cha-
racter, and ltav 'and arkilug s1~le, "Mrs. Ilents has given us here a very de-
win ~otw~ ~ ciass ~ lightful romance,. illustrative of life in the
~ ~ - South-west, on a Mississippi plantation.
"2!la. 'w~W' elicits a thrill o~ deep There isa well1jwrou&amp;ht love-plot; the cha~
.~ ~ ~ ~ racters drawn, Incidents are
wla~h aeeonans~~Jea 'Linda,' whIch was ge- striking and novel, the denouement happy,
'merally adjhlIte&amp;~i, be the b~t story ever and moral excellent. Mrs. Itents may twine
1~r a news~,~1. Thst ~ ~ new laurelsaboyc her' Mob Cap.' "-Evening
high pw*its, hub 'n~na' takes precedence Bulletin.
and, lii both, kirs. "We hail with pleasure this eontributiou
tishte~ed a triumph of no to*tl~e lite~ture of the South. Works con.
o~4insry~j~ Itls not that old"agsocla- taming faithful delineations of Southern life,
tione ~,ias our iui~glnent, fbr though from society, and scenery, whetherr sa the garb of
the ce since, of the famous romance or in the' soberer attire, of simple
alte4 O1l~*mn
e:lleucee~i~w~te~ our            an ex-       v~c~tf~ilg           a salutary iii.
our people and
the ~ Sumcmentjeieure to institutions; and our tbanksare due to Mrs.
cool; yet after la~,se of y5ars, we have Rents for the addition she has made to this
CQnth~mje4 to mal4tain the ~ame literary de- department ol' our native, literature. We
vOtion to th~,u be~t ot o'er female writers, cannot close without expressing a. hope that
The two Jut p et~o'esot Mrs. Lee Rents 'Linda' may be followed by, many other
now fully confiru~ our previously formed works of the same class from th~ pen of its
opinion, anSI we, ,'uimbesit~ting1y commend gifted aut~or."~,so~t~,, Zi4rar~,. (~zsette.
'Rena,' no#"pub1Ishe4~, book form by A. "hlemarkable for the deep interest of the
Hart, Ohes~nuf~ amid i~tirth streets, as a plot and touching beauty of its we told in-
story which~ ju Its v*rted, deep, and il~,~- clients; some of ou~' newspaper e~litors, i~-
trig Interest, has 'eo stiperIorY......4~* ~ deed, pronounce it 't&amp;e best story ever pub-
lm~sk~4 in a newspaper.' This is certainly
high-praise, and from our knowledge of Mrs.
'Qsnplewin One Volume, lWce 60cents. Lee Rents's ability, as an accomplished
writer, we have no donbttle praise is well
IILL AIWINNE;                      merited."~An~nior
Complete in One Volume. Price 50 cents.
CQU1tTI)1~ THE ST1IAHTs THE SEA-KING
U?0snrnsltExexe OF cnAmtsme U~ '~ A NAUTICAL ROMANCE.
JAI(5s lI,
jAw m~QRZO4L ROMA~1CE.              By the Author of "The &amp;ourye of the
"Th5 pe$o&amp;4uring the ~-elgna of Charles Ocean."
II. and James II, is one of the most interest- "It will prove deeply Interesting to those
lug In English history,~. hell Gwyn~e, first fondof maritime stories, and aboo'nds in re-
a poor actress, and again as the king's mis- nations of daring deeds and ~allamat adven-
tress, and -pos~ess~ng mere than ,a queen's tures."-&amp;,~imo,.e 4merican.
iufh~ence' Is the prominent dharactem~. The "This is &amp; brilliant story of the seaby the
va~~ c arac rs are well drawn, and the author of that very popular work, 'The
copatruetion of tlze~ tale is ~hol~oughl~a~,t. ~ur~~'of the' Ocetri; who did ziot live,
is~&amp; The scenes shift Contiiruajlyand the however, to complete the pres.~m~ one. This
lntOrest lfthe reader 15 well sustained to the task was perfo~-jn the publisher by the
close."- Evenin~ BtW4in6                ~                 for

A. HART'S BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.
MEMOIRS OP THE                TWOVOLtJ3iESP05T8V0,1VlTRPOnTRMTS,0~0TB,
Life of 1~1~ry, Queen ~f Scots,                      sxTnA GILT, p2.50.
With 4necdot~s'Ehf the On~rt o~Hesry IL,          MEM0~R8 o~ ~
dursng k~ T4~4                     HOUSE ~             4~TW~ A1~T~.
li~ MISS B1l~N0EB,
Author ef3IemeIrsef"Ai~JiElBOIOYfl,"&amp;C. h~lud*ig #kst4e~ dud 4ls~4lio4#AI I~ snout
flOE THE SECOND LONDOlt iDITION~ distin5uskd~44r~~jiCe4mirifl5
Two Volumes, c~otheutragilt, prlce$2. BY DR. ~6 'QooJ(~ TAYLOR,
"promveryfiatterlng reviewsof this work, Aintleer of "ROssnntf# fl~i~1IP~ .f the
that have appeared in English publications, .~e or nluisssnezia,"" u ~f Ass-
- and a perusal of the evemitt'ixl life of 4nne cleat ~i4 Xo4~irn flISto*'y/' 4~;e~
Doleymi, we had anticipated a very agre~ab1e
treat, and our expectatiOns have been mom~r "A very ploau~nt boohf pomo of Its pages
than realized~ Mfssihenger'hasS inostha py are as fAalI of'intetett ts~ a tom~nee Dr.
faculty of condensing l4storieal inf~rmat1on, Taylor is, happy ininany otbia ~ortralinres,
and while occupied in pOrtraying tEe events but in none hats iii that~6% the lovely
of Mary's career, gives the reader ablrd'54ye but unfortunate Ffen*lefts. Z~nchi~e~a ofOr-
glance at those Institutions ~snd laws wlmich leans, and of~erd~mgbter5ObSi~tsIn~51id
contributed, while a resident in Prance, to equally unfortimizate Maria ~.ommlsa, Queen of
the formation of her character, and at the Spai5~ !I~litsbook cannot be read withoutthe
same tirtie introduces on the eta deepest lnte~est."'~-Xorfliiig Herald,
nenteetofe, whoie taflucace orexamplemay "We~b~ve found this ~o'ee nf~ the ,'eIbs~
have ifad an influence over her. Merde- lively, spirited, and interes$mmg irist~r~eew~e
scriptlou of the (burt of Henry IL cannot have met with In a long while."AA5l10~lesri
lull to interest the reader, for she descends mrle,~. ,~ ~
at times todetail~, which possess a.li the at~ - 'IDS. Tayloi~s information rasp*etlngMze
tractious of romance, biitwhieh are strictly Orleanslunilyis very grpatz heknowe every
historical. Anobjectlou may be urged to authentic detail in that longeareer. -~is
her coplona ~notes, many' of which might accounts are decidedly s~ntsslng; few novels
have beemi ineOSporated in the tent, without indeed alford soimiucl~ ~
injury~ but bee' 4eslre probably to antheuti- anecdotes~now stisnulaislsik~ asandalOuA~and
eate every'fint Of any Importance, has been delightful, and stew dark, mysterious, ro~
the cause ~fthlsand by the e~ltIesl reader mantle, a 4,te leh'e-~4fern~iRg Post.
will be deenied aS e*sentla.l- No lengthyre'
viawof thlswOrhlsneceutary to mISSitre it a
perusal4oma ourreadv~s, for2no reader of          T14~E '~G~N IU~
historycen fallto~t0ke a dee p lntere~tin the
unfortunate Mary~sIi4oUr friends, who are
preparing "liobmiives pr winter evening pe- ~IIARAI~TCbIi~ bIIUI*~
~ V!IDIRRIW 5bU~J WUt!U!VI
- CL~h~Oet.),
"In these days of shabby reprints, It is a ~ PROFESSOR WIL~OW,
treat to get hold of a publication In the best
style of type and paper, for which Mr~ hart OP. THu UNIVERSITY OP EI)INIiURC*H,
is famous. We have not, for a long tine, %e~j~ "I1ig1~aud ShaJosvs of &amp;ot-'
seen two such beautifullypilUte(Z vohimmues. ~ ~'e-n~e ReQolZections of Chris-
"Miss Benger, *ho has imlidertakemi this         t~- .zv~m," cic. etc.
new mcmoitof the hapleas Queen otilcote, Is
knownaSMie capable writerof 'Meazioirs of . ZN ONE voJ~,1~5IO. ~LOtH GILT.
Anne h3ole~n,' and other' Worhs. Otcovtrse ~ J$XiE $1.
'there camulOt be a great deal that is~trietly ~'The i~versof Thirns~-srzd where are they
new said of the life of onewbo ha'ebeemi ~' ~c~.~n:not~xali t~va1ua the opinion of
much written and talked of as Mary Stimart;
but Mlss~EengcF, whieshe hasobtained Ohrmitopher North fpr~~eIi~, mill-seeing
Ohrlstopher.-Ofth511f0, Intellect, and geluhis
many nes~ particulars, has)xdsdo the ~ of him whose strongest wish was
use of the old materials, #ndthue given us a  -     'fOr  Or a~ld 8cotl~i'fsS1iP,
mast grac aisd$hiterOstlllgVeT5ioh1~Of o~e -~
of the ru6at tommolling Ittetories on record.  Some useful plamiofboOk to tsuake,
Three original letters~t Mary to th~ Duke Or sing a mug atleasti'
of~Argyle are p~izbllsbedA.nd an isutograpli "Anti l~W tenderly, hQwearnes*l)*h0~T
copy of,~ttm u9f a letter is engraved for rjorlouisy he 'ss~igt '
the see6n4tOlUme~ To t$~~rtt ~vil'elul~ a "Pro1b*~Or ~Yll~on 4efends tlm~e peetftOm
well-ezecuted engraved llke'eessIsp~eIlX4" much xm~eslbf61l5 azid u 5arr4flt04~ re~
.-Evfezing Bulletlfl. 2 preach, and. lives the reader 4ts~n o~
"This~~ a ha dsomne r~prliit frqm the his character,
second -Londo~s edition. Th0 autbo* Is fa- lngtrib'ete to the meisioi~yof
vourably known from her 'Mei~rsofAinie world ~lll aliray's deltgh~ to
Boleyn.' '~-~4rthtsr'#IIO7fle GWr        Western t4tcra.'y 4dv~rtissr.


I
r
A HART'S MI~OE~LA~UIlOU~ WQ1~WU.
4
OCRlPTIVEGEo~RAI~Hy
MW
BRi~: ~~~JGAL 2KE CfI~J{ O~
~ iIQ5~JFN 8~HWZRZ~
~ ~I ~ A RESID~L~ Z~ ~ "I[GLT LANt~/'
&amp;iitora of Me NwEdi~io~ of. Mo f~s6rw Bi&amp;te~'
~T~LU~T1IATJII) WITH MAP8 AN) ~?U)X~ROUS ~MY~TG3~
ZR O~. Wu~w8m ~n1fo~m with "L~xkoWa De~ So~ o4it1o~,)'
R~RWi~
rested ~i th 9~wy ii~ ~e ~Oz.y z~uw~
4~i1eVolinl1eIu 1wil~of Intorept md Infer-  *~-   LS.        YVI ~S
mad ~~0~intedlnthenxostbeantIfulptyle~ the tb~nks, Of BUCk ~O (lao ti~th8~rn4lt~
ai&amp;~          ~wlth ~iumeroUs zhp~a and
4              engiavtege. A more detailed and eon~pre- lie haaprepareci ~fkt~r Maezlean wedews."-
hoMv&amp;lfllentioii on the H&amp;y Land, aste- .ZVort!i~4m#ic.n~
14o$otei*moteepztlqultieglaasnover ~j1To of lacaIonIal~le no, a~d will
the theologIcal stu(lent It must~esp~.
~(~p 4~j~~-                            4~ubti~ssfindIts way l~ito ever, ith~z~y and
$~Xttsth&amp;re~~zt~of wide-and diligent we- InstJt~ltiQu Qf~esrz~lug."-4ma~Oiur?~v.
se~~&amp;~appssesees~asi unamzally "Whit Isawork of vast ert~dItIon~and4
a4n~~, ~ coneetoing the soereli, 8n4 wt oo~uniond It ~to~t~ b~bl~pal
physical hiot~~ e at~k~tnl, so fail of kite- student~ aed to the ~aan of Iettov4as~4~tlie
west and so linked most sacred as- eeliolsr, as perhaps the most~lt~t~-j~u4
soolations and-%~men*~ ~&amp; to be fitly caUed certainly tb~ most ccmat ar~d4~4ho~tIe
the Roly ~ is, boantifally account of the I#o1y~ ~li~nd ovor rhlisbsd.
printed on fi~ie pa~0wya~4 It ~s illustrated by Mr. Looser, the tnaslMor, hao~ezeont~d~ big
p o ~o-~Sbg4e~,a task very creditaI4y~, and has -takem~ gmat'
~p*~ins to make atm easyand Intelligible v'-
u~ef~a~erydand~valuablei*.rk, sion fronm the or4ginatl{ebwew e~~m~Ja~
deserTIng t~e sl4eratIo~m which it will be occasionally enriched the te~t-Vlth naoful
sare tG9I~taIn;ikomn se~ano slid others 'into- explanatory notesY-N~w Odea*e,&amp;&amp;
/
~X~URESQUE U.
SKETCH ES IN ~G REECE AN~ TURKEY,
IN ONI~I VOLUMI3I IZxo, 385 I~AG~S,, 0I4Q~!H G~X4~ ~ROI$1~


  
             
         
       
   
