
    ----CITATION----
        Singleton, Col.. Ella Marshall, or, All for Love .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7782
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Ella Marshall, or, All for love 
            
               ELLA MWRdIALL OR ALL FOR LOVE.   L PRIZE TALE,   BY COL. SINGLETON.   THAN PRINTING ESTABLISHMENT, DEXT1ER, ME.     A   "EVIA   CHAPTEIR I. "He who seeks repentance for the part, Should woo the angel, Virtue, in the future." SIR X. B. LYTTON. IN   a dull, dark, somber attic, by the flickering flame of a light, almost burnt down to  the socket, sat a man, whose ap- pearance indi- cated his age to be 'some thirty years, but who in truth was but a week past his twenty fifth birth-day. There was no fire in the room, and it was as cold and cheerless, as a November mid- night could make it. The room was scartily furnished, with- a poor miser, able pallet, a rickety old chair, an which the man was sitting,a common deal table,. and an old battered' and   worn out trunk) on which sat a mug of beer, The bloated countenance, and the haggard look with the deep seams and wrinkles on his brow, showed plainliy the ,effects ofintempertnce and dlssipation, while the wild: eye, and the indescribable desolation-almost despair-of his whole physique, told in unmistakable language, that for years, young as he was, he had' been ahabitue of yile and miserable resorts. He sits with his head resting oh his anld, looking with wandering eye on the dying,flame.--While his thoughts  are carrying him far away from pres- ent scenes, let is run briefly over h's life-record,- and see what influence has, been at Work to make him the mis- erable object he now appears to be. Huberti Middleton- was the son of a wealthy fairme r,who early inculcated by hard usageland cold words, a strong desire in' Hubert, his onlv son, to get areay from home at, any cost. A mother's tears, and prayers, and love,*,  influenced him to remain at home, al- though with a discontented heart, un- til his fifteenth year had passed, when. one sharp, winter's morning, When the.   fields were white and frozen, and -he treeE were hanging .with silver icicles, sees him trudging his weary way, along toward the shining spires of .the distant city of C. He-:had left his fa- thers house without intimating his puir. pose to any one but his mother,- and now on the dawning of his third .day from home, he is in sight of what has mingled with all his dreams fromn ear- ly boyhood. But his is an 'oft told tale--and it is needless for me to give the minutia of that dailylife which in itS contin ual progress, carried his youth- itl b ark from fields of verdure, to the oean, from still-water to deep, amid storms and tempests to breakers, and at las. stranded him, on the rocks -of crime and destitution. How can a young man without friends to advise, and with demons, in every :fom of beauty and vice at his :elbow, ever ready to taunt him on to sin, how can lie with no strict -principle within him, mnaintrin the inthegrity of his &oul? Man must have priiple, and tha bas. ed on :he highest Source, or 'else he has no armor on that will. withstand the darts of the adversary of souls.   Hubert enters the city--searches in vain for a situation-after coming almost to starvation, secures a place in a wholesale store; associates with fast young men; attends the ball-room, thelthetatre,-begins to drink strong drink---visits the billiard"room-learns how to gamble--finds his small pit- tance of a salary, insufficient to pay his fast accumulating bills;l purloins from his- masters-stock-is detected and disgraced,-returns home only to receive the curse of his father and the reproaches of his mother, repays the frowns of his parents, by stealing all the, money he can find in his fathers desk--flies again to the city becomes a hanger-on of bar-rooms--and a pimp of vile resorts-and when our story opens in one of his lucid intervals from the effects of the cup, is conscious sticken-at the retrospect of his life. Naturally of a noble heart, and an ar- 'dent temperament, the rough hewing of the world has: not completely de- stroyed the nobler impulses of his na- ture and there still' slumbers beneath the :rocky casing lsome of the true man, and he begins td think for the first   time for many, a day. If the voice, hardened and polluted would stay the cup cf poison but for an hour and think, sure are we, that the serpents hiss would be heard, though his noi- Isome coils shone and dazzled like - an angel of light. Hubert thinks; and -as he thinks- conscience so long unheard-beats with no uncertain sound at the, door of his heart, and the warning which it ut- ters fills the room with its monitions, and pierces his soul with the terrible anguish of remorse. Memory with its thousand fiery tongues throiws the vail aside -hat so long has given him forget- fulness, and the flitting shadows of the  past, cone and surround him, robed in the garments of shame and sorrow, with vrhich he clothed them years long : gone. She holds her pale light- to conscience, and: the gleam falls, on : many an act, and deed, --which he   1 would give worlds to recall, and: oblii- erate. So sure are a mans acts to:be  stored up in the secret places of con- science and memory, for the c  ertain day of reckoning, whose shadows fall on a man ever after the crime.:1 Hu- il   , .- bert strives in, vain to shake off the ieight; i of,*woe-which, they are, now ;seoairgig him :with, but :he might as :.welliwreaste with death .and expect to -k   thaket-ftts *icy;hand ;. the spell is on him, M imndthe: houriissaeced to its-work. Tears flow from fountains long dry, and frot hiseheartt opfhearts. well up I the iwattesrs ofiepentanee . AhM! then, ^:as, t  ,rowdsi n: thought, . ow -mwoerhelaps'Qon woe, aridihow he ,longs withi thel? intense :longings. :of; despair :rr frthe stn-ylhurss,A ,the gentle plea- sures h ,lo ;ago. ,leAft with- innocence ;!ehi'fl.: i;-r imbling;ike :the rwinterls -fo aggQihis utterance lost: in the: agony o f his;- ;s ol, ihe . ,essaysto;.addess his Godd in rpramyx,and jall unused -ias :he -- is;:to broenthe i :foAh; ,the!aecents of re- :i:peatiaaQe anakddjvotion, he cries to that :groat rbtr4ator of menm s destinies for f wisdom   'ad ,length.  I-V Mamayia) or;a ,atime,:wear a cover- mIngoftxpe w .which may, shield :him in a lttte :measre;f irermor.; the -lash : of con- -sifiee,. e;. jreiaiy i plunge: so deep -in re:potreo$oiqsin,-,;ast : , flood and :sub  nmertga}8a:;1 the:. igoo; iimpwessions, of h lhne,. :te! Lingerings; and longinugs of   virtue and the holy aspirations of the soul; lle may bury beneath-the tatter- ed rays of'pleasure and sensual indul. gence, all tihe -finer sensibilities of his bette: nature-but in somne moment, when the day is bright, and the -sun is shining, and all is gay and blithesome without, it will suddenly awake, burst asuncer the cerements of sin and pol- lution, come up from- its grave and 'confront the man like the recording angel at the judgement; and then how he shrinks frot.-the- vile ex')osure of his crimes and prays :for- some -moun:ain :of annihilation to fal- upon him and crush himn to atoms. And ,thus Nwith Hubert Middleton-this was one o:' the hours, which $'every man sees many times in a. lifetime, when no exercise of" the will stifles the -iward voice,--h6 must listen and hear.-- "Whie' he emused 'the 'fire burned" within him. He sat there long after the light had burnt , out in its socket, and his limbs were chilled, and 'numb :withcold,alnd hhe only Was- awakened from his reproachful, lessons by the ha- zy beams of the morning sun peering through the dusty glass into'the dreary I    apartment But those silent watches of the night had not passed without leaving! their impressions, and -they had done him good. Good resolutions were strong in his heart, and he arose determined to break the fetters which had bound him so long, and become a man. But what could he do--no home, ho friends, no character, no money, all gone-all swallowed up in the cup of debauchery, not the faint- est shadow, of capital to work upon- what could he do? His first act was to throw, out of the window his mug of beer--he heeded - not that a slight di- Verging from the line in which it went, would have crushed in the head of an early traveler who was wending his way to the market--hewas filled with his vows, and the earth clothed as it was in its sober robe, looked happier, -and more hopeful than it had for months and years before. It seemed to him that nature begun to smile w th its old smile, and everything, was cast- ing ,off- the eternal froNwn, which it seemed :o him it long had worn.    CAAPTER IIt - "A thousand fantasies,  Begir to throng into my memory, Of ca ling shapes, and beckoning shadows dire, And airy tongues that syllable men's names, And sands, and shores, and desert wilderresses." MLTON. Hubert Middleton paced his at-ic, in the cold gray of the morning, deciding what his first step in his new life should be, the cry of ;'fire! fire! fire!' and the  impetous rattling of engines, and the clanging peals of a score of bells, told him that in his own neighborhood the devou ring element was sweeping prop- erty aid perhaps life itself to destruc- tion. He followed his first, impulse, and rushed with the- mass of individuals who were hurrying to the scene of the calamity, A snlend'd hotel was fast succumb. ing to the flames. The whole loweir story Wvas crackling with heat, and the, I/   immense pile was wrdathed, with the smoke and cinders of the burning mass. In the third story, reaching far out of the window, wringing her hands and shrieking for help, was a maiden. 'She had on but the flowing night-dress, and as the lurid flames circled, higher, and higher, nearer and close to her person, enveloping in- its scorching cloud ,her slight,; and beauteous form, she looked like a, being- of another world. i-The firemen had placed their only ladder up the walls already, but it only .reached to a window some twelve fiet below the one in which she was standing, and none' were willing to trust themselves in the falling build- ing. The fierce curling flames ap- palled the stoutest, and sturdy men all unused to fear, quailed before more than mortal adversary, The,mosthe- roic among- them all, was unwilling to mount the ladder. Hubert waited but for a: moment, then flew up the ladder dashed in the window, made his way into the building, up the tottering flight of stairs, to the chamber in which the object of his .search was last seen. The dense snmoke stifled him almost to   suffocation, but he had no thought" bnly ' to save her who was perishing. This moved lim with-superhuman strength and energy. He gasped hs way through - the dense- hot cloud, til., he- found her, only just breatliing as She was, and with a desperate effort, took, her up, retraced his steps, throulcrh the ' burning draft over the thin and seared floor to he w'ndow,. The crowd :send  up ashout which rings through the air the happy greeting. He 'quickly de-- scends the blazing ladder with his pre- cious-burden, and, as- he reaches. its lowest round falls insensible to the earth. I Days and: weeks passed, and deliri. um held high revel in the bed of 11u- bert MiCdleton, Some days he woluld-. rave -with wild? anguish of some of -hiss doings in. past days, then he' would,: burst out "in some bachannalian son0g-- again- he wou: d beg, with madlfrenzys for a cup of the poison:whic - had: beenl the bane of his life--and then curse : the cup which bhe had julst before- prayed for. And always at his bed:- side sat a lovely being wiping withl gentle -carehis fevered boow, listening   oft with tears, as he in his ravings, told of those many, scenes of dissipa- tion and vice, where his' months and his years had flown from him. Though his ravuygs, cursings and mournful cries were terrible to hear, yet still that lovely watcher sat by his bedside, ever ready to soothe and -to bless. After a long time, and death had been almost to the door, -and his foot. steps could almost be -heard as they passed, the fever abated, and health- ful nature begun again to. assert her sway, and he sunk into that calm sleep so gratefulto-the convalescent. Oh! what a blissful gift of heaven is quiet sleep-how it enwraps its pos- sessor, wearied, torn, and distracted by the turmoil of the world; in its gentle mantle, taking away the trou- ble ofthe mind and heart, drivng far off hunger, and want and fear, and bathing in a radiant cloud the dire- ful prospect of the waking  hours. How the shipwrecked mariner tossed and beaten by many waves, longs for the hour when his strained eyeballs may close, if it be in the sleep of death, and how the aged; as life grows death-. a     f   more wakeful, as the soul comes near- er the eternal bourne- wishes for that calm, seren sleep of the body, which it enjoyed vhen life was fresh and young. When H bert came out of his sleep, he perceived by the obscure light, that he was n a high ceiledc apartment, riohly hung with paintings, and fur. nished with uxurious ease and splen, dor. He made an effort Ito rise but the effort showed him, how feeble he was, for he fell back into unconscious- ness. He was, after he knew no* how long a :ime had passed, awakened by hearing whisperings arou 0dhim. A mild sweet voice asked, DDoctor is he any better 'r "Will he live . " and then a ruff voice "Perhap so, i you keep h:im still.": "Give  hmis med icine regula , and I guess we'll get him up again."  And the' the ame winning voic e, "Oh'! how glad we all are."  Then came orders- from the Doctor, about what his nourish ment should be, armd all the little etcet eas, which a judiaious physician is. careful to attend to. Then the door closed and the Doctor was gone. Nature re.   quired rest% and he slink agailn to balmy, sleep.. ;Bright -.andglowing, dreams, unrolled a,lifelik'e: panorama before him. ): H-e was layingi: oni a^ downy couch, with angelic creatures attend- ing to :his c6allsi- and one robetd in white dmpery,. spangled;with silver, seemedy  to6 mite upoa him, and gently ,farined- him, aind calmed? hitm, :with, the swdet! scent of violets ,and rosess which made himr dizzy. with: delight.- , Thef she: tookth'e. fair form of fan earflytschool-: mateofhis, happy Ella Marshall, who in his: young :days. used. t twtine gay:, garlan'ds, and -tritn his hat:; : but on her, brow, amid ,allits purity and beauty, there Was-a sad ,and molrnfuil express., ion,:which thTew a! melancholy -inge: over- her i face,:, wreatthetd ,as it was in- smiles ;jUst as an: untoward word; will:: change the ringlng laughter and- miTrth- of: a weding :pairty, intfo bitter:pain;, And this, being, talthlLoughi it: beek6ned- him on, land seemed ,to lead the way; yet often cast a :refproaebhful . glance- at  him, andr the dim; sense just coiming told him, he:: had: occasioned it: all.- With -. the, thought tears' came,- in;' his i eyesy and breathing theli wordi1 aElZa,':   he awoke, but there was no one near but the good old nurse who sat at the foot of the bed. He spoke to her, but she Lushed him. "He must not talk; He was too sick."  "But,'" interced- ed Hubert, ",who are you? and where am I? Have I been dreaminig ; When was - taken sick 't "Stop!" said the nurse, "'or else I will call the doctor"--' "You must hush. Keep quiet and whe:n you get well I will tell you all about it." . Constrained to remain still, he tl-ought over his dream. But the longer he thought, the deeper he got into the mazes of mystery. He could not -hink it was all a -dieam, he was sure, some gentle hand l-ad been near, ministering to him, but whether angel or mortal, no persuasions of his could induce his nurse to reveal to him. Slowly the sense ofthe scenes of the fire came lupon him ;n all their terror, he remembered, his passing on to thile ladder from the burning building; but he could remember no farther, and as ofter- as he questioned the nurse, she woud tell him to '-'hush," and if he persisted, she:woould leavje, him alone, And so:he spent his wakef ul hours, in  t.   trying, to solve- the problem, "'How came-I here?' When wearied with doubts and surmises, he wonld sink into sleep only to have similar visions of happiness and' bliss pass before his eyes.. CHAPTER Ir., "So gaze met gaze, Andheart saw heart, translucid through the rays. One same harmonious, universal law, Atom, to atom, star to star, can draw, And heart to heart! Swift darts, as' from the sunt The strong attraction, and the chare is done. "': THE NJEW TIMOX,. days after day passed, Hubert rapidly improved in bodily vigor, but his ex.-  treme weakness would not allow him to remain up, but for an ex- ceedingly few' moments   in a day.  Whenever he wi'shed to rise, the. nurse. would call' the serving man, John, who dressed- him in a loose wrapper, and ' attended him while up.   Hubert in- dustrio0usy endeavored to discover if any one had been near him   'while he  was sick, but the, man was impassible,    threats or entreaties, only occasioned immoderate laughter. Hs found as he improved ir health that he old nurse left him,: more and more with the serving-man, until she- did rot appear at all, or very seldom, and -hen but for a moment. But as ofter as he slept the same fairy- forms would fill his dreams. He still longed to krnow more about his situation, and he determined the firstopportunity to explore the house and discover what he could. One evening just as the sun was de- seending so its bed of golden glory, Hubert awoke, and found himself aloll.. H I hastily arose, put on his clothing, and though- so weal;k .s hard- ly to be able to complete his toilet, he op)encd a door, passed wdown a long, hall, and a stairway, which was dimly lighted by the fading beanms of lhe sun. He qame to a door which he noiseless- ly oeened and stealthily advanced into a Ilare and sumptuous saloon of grand proprtions, most elegantly carpeted and -urnished with gorgeous damask curtains, ottomans, divans and all the many beautiful articles, which go to   make: up a fashionable' 'pa'rlor.  At th-e farther end of the: apartment stood a piano, and preparing, and arranging'  the music,: in the dim "t-wilight, stood what riveted all his attention. A form which in its outlinie was perfect as loveliness itself, and to 'which symmme-  try could add nothing.  A face as fair as a poet's love, and more than all, the glorious being he beheld:was the veryv personation of his dreams.  He stood entranced, every sensibility of his ex- citable nature enwrapped in the vision of beauty  which  stood before him. His soul was filled with delight, and he hardly knew whether he was in heav- en or'on earth.  The gentle no'es -of the piano, recalled him to himself, arnd a sweet bewitching voice warbled in dulcet measure the following SONG. Though beauty, may smilingly cail And wrv-eathe gay garlands fi t ie,--. I I look with disdain, on them all, For still I renlember TH/]r. Tho.-gh honor, and fame, bid me rise, \ And 6'hisper of what I may be, IklioW that the world'is greatest prize Of n o va lue wo0ld be,- withbut, TEHEE. Thmovgh gold, the briht siren may sing, And offer to loan me ier key,-- Wbh -n she sings of thejoys she can bring,- I still shaill remember THEE.   Thmogh llnds may rise lilc a bar, And I ail over many a sea, Yet saill As; I t'avel afar,  My3 lhemrt, Oh11! it still clings to THEE. yo! the ;vorld and all it can give, 'lhough its gifts come ready and free, A'ill not[in the moemory li-ve - Like the fond recollections of THElE. No! I shbl1 never forget !  i hereyer. in life I may be, That EM, which with brilliants is set,- - For I still sliall remember THEo. She3 sung the stanzas vith deep and tender emotion, as -though  unbidden thollghts were gathering; and when she stopped, her head fell upon the pi- ano, and she sobbed as though her heart would break. Suddenly she threw her head back, brush3d aside the jetty ringlets fro a her fOrehead, as though such thoughtts: were unwelcome guests, turned partly roun  to rise, when her eye$  rested, upon Hubert who was standing reside her.  A doep red flush suffused her cheeks, instantly succeeded by a pa- rian whiteness, like marble, and she fell in a swoon.  When jat the loud ringing of the -hasty bell, the servants hurried to the room, -Hubert was call- ing for help, and ordering enough to be done. to keep a hundred, servants at ork fora day.   Itdid not takeelong ;,   to bring the bounding blood back again in the veins of the maiden, or to march off to his room Hubert, who would fain have remained :-but the inci- dent had learnt him one fact, which was to be the ruling passion of his life, that he loved-loved with the ardent attachment, which all the surges of f life could never wash out. The reader must follow out in im- agination, the many happy hours, which Hubert and Ella spent in each, others society ; the twilight hours of love, are sacred--no impertinent hand ought to draw the curtain, or in- ,trude on those blissful moments!which 'seldom are man 's to enjoy but once in a: lifetime; for, when the first, true love is lost, whether it be by being in Godl' providence transfered to a new robed anigel up on high, or bvy the dark malice of fiendish 'men ; never can that etherial fire burn-with its ear- ly intensity again. i It is like a: rose in a vase, when, by its beauty it has pleased the'sight Tordays, and' many have extolled its excellence--its finely shaliaded tints anid bringht colors are still there, but the perfume has gone, it res-   ted on the first loving hand that press- ed i. But it is time 'for us to hTace -out the events which have transpired, -and which have brought our herb and he- roine in such close proximity. Mr. Marshall, the father of Ellna, the spring preceding the time our story commences, had been called by urgent business to the West, to attend some land speculations, which his agent had entered into by his request. On his return, he[ was suddenlyltaken sick in the city of C. some hundreds of miles from his home. He immediately sent for his wife and daughter, under whose care he soon- became convales- cent. Tle morning of the day he was to start wih his family for horse, the hotel caught fire, at which they were boarding and as we have seen was  burn- to the ground, and the incidents we have so defectively portrayed oo- curred. Mr. and Mrs. Marshall, as they escaped from the burning build- ing, discovered that Ella was not with them, and were almost fiantic with fear Rest she had returned to he room and their only child might be consum-  ghthe........................... -   \  " ed by; :the raging: elements. They soon discovered that she was indeed in the; building, and then parelital love al- most drove each insane, at the fearful peril in .wlich she :vas placed. They made great exertions,'and Mr. Mar- shall came near losing his own life as he run over the charred timbers ; but being so confused, and confounded by the -shouts of the crowd, and the dread- ful scene, their exertions were of no atvail. It:may he supposed :that their hearts were overflowing with gratitude tothe deliverer, when the. glad hurra of the firemen brought them to the foot of the ladder, from which Hubert and Ella had just fallen, 'Twas but the work of an instant to convey each to a neighboring hotel, when Ella soon re- vived, uninjured except by a slight, scar on her-arm and the loss of part of her'beautiful ringlets, which the flames had- qrisped a nd singed.  Bv the earnest persuasion of Ella, Mi' MarshalZ consented, to lease a ,house:in.:the city for thb winter, where I-Hubert,. during..one. of his delirious spells.. was . conveyed, Ella is the wiohing girl of nineteen,- as beautiful   as wn, as sprightly as a - gazelle, and hls just begun to love, while Hu- bert has found what amid all his wan- derings, he has never found before, and O! how tmany times he rhas longed for it---an ob ect, he could love with- out fear of being scorned. There is but one thing that comes between hm and Ella, and that threatens to dash to the earth, the first full cup of ha ppiness lhe hlas ever bad proffered him. It is his appetite for strong drink-acquir- ed 1ong ago- This rages within him- like a fire in the hold of a ship-if not quenched speedily, sure to consume the noble structure at last.: It is these early bad habits which in after life, come like the worm at the root of the tree, dnd gnaw deep into the heart, , and no purity of purpose, or integrity of principle, or after repentance, can stay their effects; though years pass away, and bitter tears try to wash the m out. Early dissipation, leaves a life- long nark on the deluded victim. Hubert with his many vows and deep , resolmuions, could not restrain t, se fire within him, and although 'asharred to speak of it before' Ella, yet its very in-     A)   tensity, prolonged his fever to an un- usual length, and the mind, as it often :I   does, kept his b6dy from resuming its healthy functions, with its wonted flow of invigorating impulses. i! i ) \   CHAPTER IV. "What is this life without, the light of love? 1 cas. it from me, since its worth is gone. Yes ; when we found and loved each othe-, life Was something. Glittering lay before nr e The golden morn. I had two hours of heaven. 'r'Thou strodst at the threshold-of die stcene Of bt sy life. With timid steps I crossed it; How fair it lay in solemn shade anti sheen! And 3;.hou beside me like an angel posted, 'I o lead me olut of childhood's fairy land, On) to life's glancing summit, hand in hand! Mfy first thought was of joy, no tongue cau tell; My first look on thy spotless spirit fell,- And 'ate put forth its hand, inoxorable,-cold." SCHIILLER. WAS a bright spark- ling day, in ,arly spring when Hubert first rode out after his sickness.  The morning was unusu- ally pleasant, the air soft and balmy, the early birds bone-by one, had begun  to chirp  and  carol along the walks and hedges, "the cat- tle on a thousand hills"  had begun to lod  sweet music to the genial sea-son, while fields and forests streamlet and   lake, began to wear the brign'ter garb of life and verdure. Ella had long promised Hu bert, that some clear day, she Nould accompany him, On a drive, and hold the reins; she bhad al'ready delayed it fio0m week to week, and seemed .unwi'ling to ftlfil her pronmise, but the delays :-lad been so frequent, that' there was r o long er any excuse. Hubert linad looked for- ward to this day wVith anxiouis expec- tation, and delightful anticipawions, for lie meant this interview ;should decide his destiny ;-but now the mnoment had arrived how could he open the subject which laid nearest his heart? It seemed as though :Ella 'had a presentiment, that this was to be the grand imioment of her life, for after theyJ ha:l driven some distance in perfect silence she started, at; thbe spund of his voice, as though her thoughts were dischver- ed-. Strange it is that love is such a t   tell-tale, thlat it can never. keep: its$ own I ' secrets, hardly for a day,bu it must by, some deep mant!ngr. blush or rosy tinted shame, disclose. oft to its. very !   object, thc lbeaven-born passion, which   has just begun to be part of the exist- ence. Hubert and Ella, rode along over hill and dale, but neither felt like breaking the silence till Ella spoke- "They rpust return, they were K riding too far"--then a silence and Hub ert said '"EEla P" "what!" was the onlv answer;, then another long pause, "Ella I love you," Hubert whispered and bu- ried his -ace in his hands-but it was her turn now to tremble, and when he gathering courage as he proceec ed, lifted his head, and told her, of the many times he had longed and prayed for some one to love, and that in find- ingher, his life-love had rested, and how amidl his sickness, it had sustained and comnforted him, and without she could return his love, his life was the- same desert blank it ever had been, his heart was hlers, would she re ect it? And then Ella, all weeping in her innocence, could not but own she loved him too. Howlo0vingly she told him, how she had watched his fevered face, and brushed back his'dark loclksq U fromn his hot brow, but she had dons it /: willingly, for she could never forget, : -    Cv  that he periled his life to save' hers, and that then she loved him, aye, and had, ever since, and should ever, though the world stands between. And then he told her of his dream, of the angel that beckoned him on, ever in his sleeping hours, who was no longer ideal but a real angel beside )   him. Then a dark cloud came across her countenance, and she spoke of his past life, and sobbed as t ough her heart would break as shed touched on the gloomy days hle must :lave gone through; and the dismal life he had led, away from home, with no mother, or sister, or loved ones around him.. And he wept too'; the scalding tears would come, and then he called on )   high heaven' to witness, that he was, )   and would beevermore, a better, wis- er and purer man, and tfien they both plighted hands and hearts agan-and so they were betrothed. The pony had slackened his pace, but as slow as he' went, they were at home long before they wished to be. With beaming eyes Ella, hastened to X:;- communicate the intelligence to her father and mother. They both ap-.   peared startled and surprised and not altogether pleased, and Ella was dis- mayed that her father spoke so scorn. fully. "'Ella why did you not ask our ad- vice, ere you gave yourself away?" "Why were you so rash IP Hubert must never marry you."- "Why dear father, I love him, is it wrong?"No my dear Ella", and a look of sadness covered his counte- nance,"but our Ella must not be a- drunkard's wife."  From that moment, Ella commenc- ed living a new life, a life of earnest, hopeful work. All the love and ener-, gy of her being, was centered in this ! one great purpose of her being-the   ( total reformation of Hubert firom the . power of the tempter. It was in -his work that woman's love shone out ' with that sublime radiance, which ever ( surrounds a good deed, and which makes a noble act, beam, with the   (I glory of the better land.       r "The influence of Mr. Mars-all    i soon procured a situation for Hubert , in the couanting room of a wealthy , merchant, and. Ella persisted, in hay-.  /  \ j   ing him board, at their house, and so I 3   she did by winning words, end persua- )   sive smiles, what thousands have tried to do by bars and bolts-she restrained hiimn from leaving the clieer-ul fireside, and the welcome home-circle, for the t   f hlaunts of the vile, the gilded saloon, t   the voluptuous embrace of :the Circe, and the gay dancing hall---the openl gates to destruction.  If the virtuous woman, but knew l her power-her -smiles and tears, her joyous presence, and blessed cmon ! panionship can subdue the worst pas- sions, and elevate the most dispairful i soul, and if she would wield this poiW- er aright, in hope and in charity, and love,- how would the long array of I dissipated husbands and sors and lov- ers, dwiatdle to a few far be- tween cases of misery and degradation. Let butwoman, take her right position, Lthe assuager of sorrow, and the eleva-  tor of the down trodden and debased, and the world will have made a vast stride towards the milcn'al period.  Tens of ithbusainds are already engag- ed in the noble work,-not -m lecturing on woman's rights, but: in the still, si"    lent, but all powerful works, of love. At home-abroad  andtin all the kind sympathies in which her rightful s-here abounds. And so Ella worked. Oft- en she would meet him at the counting- room door, as he was ready to come home from his daily toil, and by her own bright presence drive away the legions of evil spirits, who, within, and without, would lure him, to the -'chambers of hell."' One sad night, which all the joys of coming life could never make her for- get, he was brought home, by a good Samaritan, miserably intoxicated; and the humbling degrading, thoughts that came with his sober moments almost left him, without any will for good; but Ella, was constant, and persever- ing, and his liability to be caught in the evils of the adversary, made him more circumspect, and nerved him bet. ter for the future. The first days of summer came and with them the re- moval of the oMarshalls to their home, Hubert plead long that their union might take place ere they removed- and althoug the parents left it entirely to Ella she was inexorable-":If he -\ sy  ,' --'s^ ,..   g  x /   remained among the temptations of the I X city untainted for a year to come he 3   might claim her', and the hard work she had to utter her decree, told him too plainly, that if he fell, she was lost to him and the world forever. And g) so they parted, one breathing a vow, -  and the other a prayer-God grant the i  one may be kept and the other answer- ed., I- L     ( CHAPTER V. "It matters not how, or when I die; But I lift O, God! my humble prayer That my hand from my brothlerls blood be clear; ilke the righteous man's, let my spirit flee, And like his, like his, let my lastend be. RI. lI. CHALTON., 3ia  UBERT was steady at his :0Xx;, work week in, and week out OaItm ; until he was called the most IndM industrious of the score of clerks with whom he associated. The merchant ever watchful of his own in- terests, invited him to his house, intro- duced him to his wife and daughters, and the dazzling chains of wealth and beauty, were thrown around him; but he was as true as steel. No gold or pearls was:able to seduce himn from- the love, which had become his bea. con light. Her image was ever with him, in the brilliant party, at the desk as he conned over the time worn ledg- ers ; as he with many others listened to the rapturous strains of mnusic and song; or on his restless bed-tossing-   in nervous anxiety-the mind could not fly from mind, the heart felt that the form imaged on itself ,was reflect- ed by every object a round it. Letters full of love and tenderness came and went, and so the year passed by, go. ing slowly and wearily to each, but l still winging its swift way into the past. The year had almost gone, when -Hubert received a line from Ella stat. ing that her father was very sick, and if he would see him alive, he must hasten to thbem, Full of grief Hubert sped to Mr, Marshall's sick-bed. He arrived early on the following after- noon, after speeding as fast as money would produce swiftness on the part of his carriers. As he walked up tile long path from the gate of the park to the house, he was struck with the des. olate appearance, of the house and its adjuncts. Everything proclaimed in silent ,but moving language that the master was sick. Hubert gently op- ened the front door, put the quick ear -of love lad heard his step on the walk, and he was met at the threshold, and'  clasped in the arms of love and affec. tion---A silent kiss, and a whispered   word,-and they repaired to the cham- ber of the dying. Mr. Marshall was  N lying on his couch bolstered up by pil- lows, and very evidently neal his end. His face showed the workings of dis- - 1 ease and he was but the shadow of his former self, but the eye was undimmed,  bright with an unearthly lustre. He  t had been a meek child of faith, a con-  stant and zealous lover of Christ and his doctrines; had ever lived in the light of "the world to come" and now  as the open portals of eternity and the billows of death are in full view, and ( the turbid waters of "the dark river" h appear  in sight, his "silver cord" shines and glistens with increasing  beauty-and he hears the voice of his ; master, "I will be with thee to the end," filling the room with melody, so that  almost the weeping friends can hear it, and all the clouds of doubt are gone, and tinted and vailed in a holy light,  the couch seems to be covered with a  glory not of earth.         ( Oh! what a cheering thought, that j after a long life oftoil, passing through its varied scenes of hope, and fear, blights, afflictions, sorrows, pains, and [  (*"   all the many trials,. which make it the vanity it is, to have the evening come, like the glad chimes of christmas to usher the soul into the cloudless pure, eternal day of heaven. As the sor- rowing family stood around the bed-- the mother with pale and anxious brow : bending over the parting spirit, the gentle -Ella, kneeling in all the aban- don of beauty in woe -Hubert clasp- ingthv dying man's hand-the ser- vants of the house, weeping in boister- ous grief, and the old nurse gliding \ round, and -quietly taking all the pre- cautions for the comfort of the sufferer, which respect or love could suggest- the scene was a fit prelude to the quiet and rest on which it verged.  'Twas sweet to look on such a death- bed. Every feeling of the dying man, seemed brought into that perfect and blissful submission to - the will of  God, which we might expect from one who had lived as he had. Faith and full assurance of hope was given him in full measure, and sustained him in the trying hour.. As the' day declined, and the last golden cloud, with its wavy line .ofsil-   vcr fringed the west, and began to re-  ede and fade, the dying man awoke. ,'Ella! here my child," he whispered. 'I am going home; my moments are short on earth; would I could see you  made happy ere I die, it is the -only remaining desire ofmy Soul ere it flies from the unreal to the real,-but e I fear for Hubert--He paused a long  while---then as the spark of life was  e waning--he spake again. ",Hubert, promise me before God, you will nev- er taste of the drunkard's bowl again.' "1 promise' gasped Hubert.     \ Th en take her, she is yours-a fa   ther's blessing rests on you both,' and  he placed her hand inhis God shles- sing be on you both, my loved ones  1 And no   rewell fa rew member the Jordan of death is before ,you all, live so that at last you may journey to that happier country, where there is no more death, and where every tear is   wiped irom every eye. And you deal - wife, how joyously we will meet in the heaven of rest. Our pilgrimage has been almost unalloyed. : Sorrow and pain have been far from us-how kind our God has been to us-tis a l        l   sorrowful parting, but 'twill be a bliss. ful meeting.-good bye-1 shall met you again.'             i He suddenly ceased, and when t e nm'rse approached and raised the ccv- erlid the painful truth was apparent- He was dead. "And there is no death or night there." Weep not poor  stricken ones. Listen and hear the heavenly harps-Look across the ga'-, and see beyond the floating clouds, the angelic throng in white and shinire g robes. Rest satisfied, that your Lord has passed through the same, and left a sweet aroma, which every believer shall enjoy, ,as he goes through the dark passage. Many were the mourners at the grave of Mr. Marshall, for he waNv known as a good man, and was dearly loved by- many who in his lifetime he had helped in .the hour of exigency At a proper time they laid him in his  last resting place, knowing full well that they could meet him again, in that Hingdom, whose extent is unmeasura- ble, whose length is eternity, "whose throne is heaven, and whose crown is glory.,'  -   CHAPTER' YI. *I ,"'Ihcre is a bliss b)eyodall alltha h e minstrel lls told, W hen two that are lin ked in on hleavenly tier eaith iart nevercha ngingll and lrownever coll, "Wle oil throug I all ill.. and Ive on till they die. Otle hour of a passion so sacred jis worth , Whole aes of healrtless, iHld walluering liss, AndL lC)! if tlere be al Elystum )n earth,.. It is this--it is this-A :-:? -few months a ter the period *.: when our last chapter closes, (  ,/iA j! in a fine mar sion in a fash- '..?:oio na ble locality of the city ef A-, n a beautifuLay in August a happy party were gathered. ihey were all dressed in richlattire, although some of the most conSp iuous of the group were in black  Our friend Hubert is to be married to Ella. He looks different from wh t he did some, three years since when we first be- come acquainted with him. The liv- id hue to his face, which . however much is done to hide it, always ap? pears on a user of strong drink is gone, and a clear, fresh, ruddy complexion has taken its place. [Thle healthful   blood flows on, in its unimpeded course not thinned and weakened by ' the subtle poison. Hubert stands up a man, in the noblest sense. Ella the little divinity isdressed in pure white satin, made plain, and fitting closely; displaying to the best. advantage the fascinating contour and perfect sym- metry of he'r form. Her waist is clasped by a belt of mother of pearl, her glossy ringlets hang ill beautiful confusion over her shoulders and neck, and over it all in fleecy folds are the long waves of the bridal veil. Mrs. Marshall, with all a mother's tenderness, is hanging around the bride that' is to be, who receives her advan- ces with becoming 'composure.: - The party seem waiting for some fresh ar- rival-Who can it be?--the minister is there, and the long rooms are a!most fillt of joyful faces, and the bride has come down from her, chamber--and they have waited an hourlpast the time now, who can; it be? But they are not destined Ato, wait much longer. AA thundering knock which reverberates through all the rooms gives notice that t some impatient one has arrived. Hu-  I * I *     I    bert hurried to the door, almost over- setting the servant who was answering the call, welcomed his father and mother, for it- was them : and when the emnbracing, and 'God bless yoll I my boy" were over, and they had ta- ken off their traveling' garments, and, arranged their toilet, they entered into the parlor; the old gentleman declaru, mg le would prosecutel the propletors of the stage line, for, ustiing the i coach and delaying blim a day, so as to make him almost too late for the wedding.  And now everything is ready, and the-joyful though solemn ceremony commences. Many hours of lifeare holy-when the music of God's earth- ly temple fills the dome minglea with devotion from pious hearts the nmo- ment of delightful recognition of long separated friends-thy baptism, whe the bud of priomise is consecrated 'to the most high-the death-bed with its shadows from the spirit world,-all are 'holy-but what holier or 'fraught with greater effects than the hour of ' the unionof two immortals in the sa- cred bonds of wedlock? Who can tell   the gtod or evil--the lasting glory,or enduring woe of the giving away of all of life in love? The minister utters the earnest prayer, for theyoung cou- I pie, about to be made one, he speaks  of the sorrows, and deli-ghts, the griefs  and the joys of their daily life, and  prays that in all their progress throughl this world, they mny be improving  for the better one beyond. Linked by- indisqiuble ties to each otIler, that  they may be also linked by golden  bobnds to Christ, that at the marriaget supper of the Lamb, they may beo no unwelcome guests. Then the vow is made before high-heaven,-for weal  or woe they are one. "What God has joined together, let no man put asun- t der.'      .    , -     ( After the ceremony, came the gifts, and congratulations, and greetings,  I and in the midst of them all Hubert  gathered the friends around him, and twining his arm around his own Ella, he told all there, thlat, he owed all he  had to her. She by her devoted love,  and kind and gentle influence, hadh drawn him from the deep pitofintem-  l perance, which he had approached so   ', *"/\   near as to look into, and made him what he was,-and   how when the storms-of temptation, and the angry billows daoshed and rage d around him, and every star had set, and the heav- ens tere as a pall over him, she ap- pcared, clothed in charity, and true ove,and bid him hop, and pointed ilmn above for strength and support-- which iould not nor would, lqen Ella, smiling through her  tears, like a rose weeping dew, whis- Pe red ," Twas all for lovc, 'twas all for In one of the next ir-orning papers, could be read the following para- g   "  .Covn;u- a,-Marredd on the fifth il*st. by the Rev. Mr. F-, Hubert ,iddleto E, Esq., to Miss. Ella Marsh- ;Il, dlaughter of the Hon. Jerome 1Marshall--deceased.-' 1Mr. Middleton is senior in the firm o f Middleton, Allyne & Co, aconcern  w lIicl only having been in business a fetv m-onths has already acquired a lharalcter for- integrity and upright. Cess, which is seldom attaineds and /            i   never surpassed. His bride has long  been the belle of the city, and is as amiable :as she is beautiful. The  happy pair, accompanied by her moth. er, Mrs.- Marshall, go on a bridal tour to Switzerland. -We wish them much joy.'  We shall not tell you, gentle reader, how after spending a year in Europe, $ Hubert and Ella returned from their jaunt, with love unabated,--tiow de-  lightful their home became and is, . and how to this day, as he kisses a lit- tle rosy face, which nestles in his bo- (. som, and parts the golden locks from,' the pearly-brow of a little cherub, who calls ilim, 'papa" andswho he declares. V looks just like his mother--I shall tell, you none of this, not the least bit of it--neither shall I tell you his father ( and-the mothers of each, all live with them, and, the old ladies once in a, (/ while have a brush of words, one as- 'I serting that"Ella is the best wife there ( is in the world," and: the other that BeI "'Hubert:is good enough to wear the[  crown. of dia:nonds," or that they still live.?blessing to the world--No! I  shall tell you none of these things,  T       rA   but I will just whisper in your eart that you can make some man as hap- py as Hubert is, though?mayhap you  .{ cleanse him from his vice and intern-  perance. But you must remember, in order to do this, you must have the sane principles Eawas actuatedb, you must do it "ALL FOR LOVE. " a,.   '  you Must - .         !    .   !EMLIA    
         
       
   
