
    ----CITATION----
        Porter, A. E. (1816-1898). Glencoe Parsonage .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7481
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Glencoe parsonage 
            
                 "When he ,av meC, he tried to start with ,the horse, that he might ride away from my sight."      Page 43.   GLENCOE PARSONAGE. BY , MRS. A. E. PORTER.  "The promise is unto you and to your children."  Published by   . J2otihIrop & Co. Dover, N. H.: G. T. (ayy C Co, 1870.    Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by D. LOTHROP & CO. AND L. R; BURLINGAMB, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts.   PREEFACE. PREFACE. Many years ago, I boarded for a short time in a country minister's family. Their house was in a lit- tle mountain town, surrounded by some of the finest scenery in New England. The minister and his wife were devoted to their work, loving their peo- ple and sharing all their joys and sorrows. It was a house of prayer. Mr. Lee's faith in God's promises was no mere theory to him, but the life of his soul, the source of his joy, his daily bread. In the darkest hours of his life, he trusted in God and was at rest. When Christian mothers came to him, mourning because their children were not gathered into the fold of Christ, his answer was: "Let us pray ;" and he prayed for them with such faith in God's prom- ises, that the weeping mother would go away with her heart comforted and faith strengthened. When fathers came to him in sorrow for a wandering son, he would read the story of the prodigal, and say: "They can   4      Preface. not get away from God, though they leave their father's house; let us pray night and day for themn and seek them, too, not forgetting that work is also prayer." At one .time, in a dark' hour of the. missionary cause, when the treasury was low and the churches slow to respond to the call of the Board, Mr. Lee was present at the Annual Meeting. There was a crowded house when the subject was presented, and some, of the best speakers had pleaded eloquently for the cause. In a short interval between the speeches, Mr. Lee arose in a pew, and said: "Brethren and sisters, God will not forsake His cause. Let us trust Him. I pledge one hundred dol- lars for the coming year. When our wants are made lnown, the treasury-will be replenished." He took his set, but his words were. like an elec- trical shock. He was known by many as a .country minister, with a salary of six hundred dollars. He died, leaving a son with no- wealth save the leg- acy of his prayers. Three years ago, I was passing through Wall street, and needed some advice from a competent busi- ness man. The names of two or three firms pre-. sented themselves, when my eyes fell on a familiar   Preface.         5 name. I entered. In the outer office five or six young  men were busy at their desks; but when I inquired for the head of the firm,' and announced my name, I was ushered at once into a large, cheerful room, where a coal fire -was burning, and where the gentle- man was sitting at a table, reading the newspapers. "' My mother's friend!" he said; and his paper was thrown aside, and I had no doubt of my welcome, even in business hours. That mother was in heaven, but the very mention of her name told me how fresh and green was her memory in her son's heart. He had preserved her journal and letters. I have compiled them in love, as a comfort to praying moth- ers; and to such I dedicate this little book. Newhuryport, Mass.        A. E. P. t   CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. THE YOUNG MOTHER'S PLANS ..    ..  CHAPTER 1H. ECSTASY AND ANXIETy. . .32 CHAPTER III. PHASES OF CHLD - LIFE . .47 CHAPTER IV. STRENGTH WITHOUT GENTLENESS ...    . 61 CHAPTER V. ,r"CHE GREAT DARKNESS     .  CHAPTER VI. PROSTRATE HOPES     ....      112 CHAPTER VII. "GHTS AND SHADOWS .       .   3 CHAPTER VIII. UNCOVERED HEARTS .  ...179 CHAPTER IX. DAY DAWNING        . .     .99 CHAPTER X.  FRUITION AND JOY . .2 .         36 s   C7HAPTER VII1^  rt  23   GLENCOE PARSONAGE. CHAPTER I. THE YOUNG MOTIER'S PLANS. "Prayer is the Christian's plummet, sounding heaven and earth." THS is the twentieth day of Septem- ber, eighteen hundred and thirty. I write, prppled up by pillows, in my be. By mlly side sleeps ny first-born, fair and. spotless as a lily. My husband steals in often, from the study to look at us. I said to him this morning: "Herbert, I was never so happy in this world before, nor can I conceive of greater happiness in   O   The Young Mother's 'lans.    . leaven, for my soul is full of gratitude, and it ometimes overflows with rapture." "There  are moments in life," he replied, when we have a foretaste of the perfect happi- less of heaven, but it is transitory, like a glimpse f blue sky when rain- clouds qbscure the heav- ns; and there are times when the guilty man suf-  ers as keenly as the lost soul, from the pangs of emorse, but that, too, passes away. Heaven, ny love, is eternal peace." As he spoke, a sudden thought thrilled my very leart- strings: "Herbert, if this child should die:" "Bertha, there is deeper sorrow in this world than the death of those we love." . I can not understand that. I can bear any- ;hing, everything but the death of husband or child. But I will not think of death. My baby will live; for I shall watch over it with the tenderest care. It shall be fed at regu- tar hours, be dressed without pins, shall never be   disturbed in its sleep, or allowed to lie upon one side too long at a time. I will bathe it daily, and its brain shall never know the stupefying effects of paregoric or Godfrey's cordial. I will guard it carefully from-all contact with vice; no harsh tones or vulgar words shall ever fall upon its ears. Yes, darling, a mother's love and a father's care shall make this world only a dwell- ing- place for a perfect child, and a noble, good man, who will die full of years. and honor. All this I thought, and much more, for, under his father's training, he will be intellectually strong, and who knows, little one, what you will do for the world? I can see(my way plain. The child, so passive now, can be easily molded by, a mother's hand. Why are there so many wretched failures, in bringing up children? It is sad to see bad, un- governed children among the leading families of our own-church. One of our deacon's sons has ')ruined his father by dissipation, and brought his ,.   12   -The Young Mother's Plans. mother with sorrow to the grave. Another child of one of our members has been sent to sea because he was so reckless at home ; and, worse than all, the only son of our former minister has been, expelled from college for his wild& and extravagant habits.( These things ought not to be, and, if parents do right, will not be. My little one must not go astray. \ At present he sleeps nearly, all the time, and needs only to be washed and fed. Sept. 30. Baby has waked at last, and seems to have made up his mind that this is a busy world, and that he must do something in it. For want of other employment, he cries most ener- getically. My nurse is a good woman, doing what she esteems her duty, faithfully. She has her own ideas about babies, and is inclined to'fol- low them, even wlen they differ front my-own. To-day, she wished me to stop his crying by feeding him. I would not consent, for I must adhere to my rule. She was displeased, but   T; Te Young AMother's Plans.   13 made no reply, save by taking baby in her arms and walking the room with it. "Oh, Mrs. Jackson! don't do that," I said. "It is not good for him." "It is not good for the nurse, but well enough for the child. We must stop his crying in some way, or he will injure himself." Let me take it," I said, and I tried in vain to hush its cries till' the hour for nursing came, and then he fell asleep in a few moments; but I was very much worried, and so tired that I did not get rested for some hours. "After all, nurse, a baby is nothing but a hun- gry. little animal." "You've spoken the truth about babies for once, ma'ami," (did she mean that I did n't always speak the truth?) "and sometimes I think God do n't give 'em any souls till-they can talk." "I do not believe that, nurse." "Well, ma'am, the most we think about now is the body. It is a blessed thing to have a child -.*$    "     Gl'encoe Parsonage. as perfect as this little fellow, who seems to be made up for real service." "He is a nice baby, nurse, but what made him cry so long?" "Hungry; I guess, ma'am, he thought you were going to starve him." "But, nurse, do n't you think once in thriee hours is often enough for a baby to eat?" "It may be, ma'am, and- it may be not. We can not always tell; and, as the child can only make its wants known by crying, we must guess what it needs." "But, nurse, we must have some rules." "My notion is, ma'am, that the same rules won't do for all babies. Some is hungry babies, and some is n't; some is spiteful and cross, and some is sweet and pleasant. Some is independent babies, and do n't want much care, and some come into the world only to worry nurses and make  all the trouble they can for them as has the care of 'em. Now, ma'am, I've nursed, off and on,   The Young Mother's Plans.    15 for thirty years, and more'n two hundred babies; and my experience tells mle .that you can't treat 'em all alike any more than you can the mothers. My rule is, do the best you can, but do n't let 'em cry too long before they are fhree months old. There is one thing I have observed, and JI never could make it quite clear to my mind; - the most gentle, quiet mothers have the noisiest and most obstreperous babies. You have been quiet and gentle as a lamb, and I should n't won- der if, when that boy gets wide awake, he should be a noisy, crying, troublesome baby. The way he squares his little fists now, and his loud crying, lead me to guess that, if he wants a thing in this world, he 'll make a fuss till he gets it. He'll want his own way, maam." "But he can not have it, nurse." "Mothers mostly give it to such children." "He 'll find it otherwise with me." Nurse pursed up her mouth and went to fetch my gruel.    16     .Glencoe Parsonage. Wednesday evening. Mrs. Lincoln's chil- dren were here to- day* to see the baby. Mary Lincoln is my dearest friend. She is a lovely, gentle woman, whose daily life is so fragrant with goodness, that I tremble for fear she will soon 'be taken to dwell with the angels. She has three children. They were all here to -day. Mary, the eldest, is a thoughtful little woman, very much like her mother. Julia, or June as I call her, for she is like sunshine and roses, and Charlie, as yet the baby of the house, though he is five years old. . Mary inquired for my health, praised the baby, stepped lightly and talked in a low voice. June couldn't keep her hands from the baby. She danced round him and called ihim the sweetest lit- tle baby she ever beheld, begged} nurse to put him in her lap, and wished he would wake, so that she could see his eyes. Charlie looked at it a moment, and then turned away with contempt. Pshaw! I do n't like it. 'It has n't any: hair,   The Young Motler's Plns.    17 and can't play ball. I am going to play ball. Jim Russell is waiting for me." "But mother said you must not play with Jim Russell," said Mary. "I will play with Jim Russell, and y6u shan't stop mn." "Sit down," Charlie," I said, and nurse will bring some peaches." He obeyed, but, while waiting for the peaches, took a little paper cigar from his pocket, and placing his feet upon a high chair near him, cocked his hat upon one side, and put the cigar to his mouth with such a perfect imitation of an old smoker, that I could not help smiling, though I was surprised to see such conduct in Mary Lin- coln's child. "O Charlie!" said his sister Mary, "do n't be such a naughty boy. Mother says she hopes no boy of hers will ever smoke, it is such a bad habit. Where 4id you get 'that cigar?" "Jim Russell gave it to me. He makes 'em 2    18   *  Glencoe Parsonage. for the boys. It is not a bad habit, either, for Dr. Dagget smoked last Sunday when he came home from church. 'Squire Barnes says he is a ' stunner of apreacher.'" "Oh, dear!"I said, when they were gone. "That is Mary Lincoln's child, and she is such a good, faithful mother!  Nurse smiled. "I hope, ma'am, you don't think the child is very bad. He 'll come out right. You can't keep a smart, healthy boy like that, reading his book and saying his prayers all the time." "But I would keep him from bad boys." "It a'n't so easy, ma'am; this is a dreadful wicked world, and you can't keep boys from it. These little fellows repeat what they hear, with- out knowing that it is wrong. Charlie is in all sorts of mischief; he fears no danger." "I am afraid he 'll never live to grow up." ' "There seems, ma'am, to be a special provi- dence watching over children; I can't explain it   The Young iother's Plans.    19 in any other way, or else we should have them drowned or scalded or choked to death every hour. They need -a deal of care, ma'am,. any how. -Will you give baby his dinner, ma'am? It is just three hou's by the clock since he had his breakfast." "But, nurse, he is sleeping sweetly; would you wake him?" "I make it a p'int never to wake a sleeping baby; but you said you must. follow rules, ma'am." I lay back upon my pillow and thought a moment. This little incident and Charlie Lin- coln's cigar led me to fear breakers ahead in the voyage which had begun with such a fine breeze. I went to my husband as usual with my troubles ; but it seemed very easy to him to manage an , infant by rules. He thought nurse might be igno- rant, and set in her way. I must insist upon. being obeyed, if the interest of the child required it. .He had certain notions of bathing, exercise I I   20      Glencoe Parsonage. and physical culture, quite at variance with those of the nurse. "But, after all, Mary," he added, "when see the wee, helpless infant, so deli- cate that I dare not touch it, and so inferior to the lamb or pig in ability to take cpe of itself, and watch nurse handling it so deftly, hushing its cries as women only can do, I feel my own incom- petency and ignorance. I am like the fifth wheel of a coach in the nursery. When our boy is older, I hope to give you efficient aid in training him." The. next day Mrs. Thayer called, bringing with her a little boy, her son, about six years of age. The boy's clothes were very nice and clean; not a string untied nor a butthn disturbed. He sat still where his mother placed him, not ventur- ing to move or speak, till I, 'pitying the child, asked Jennie to lead him into the garden. When he was gone, I remarked that he must be a well- behaved child. "Yes," the mother replied; "I never have any   The Young Mother's Plans.    21 trouble with my children. It is easy enough to bring them up, if you only begin right, and in-  sist upon perfect obedience. Neither Olive nor Henry has given me an hour's anxiety." I looked at her in astonishment, and said, I  hoped I should learn of her how to train my child. "Only subdue them in season," was her reply. "I had my first contest with Olive when she was but three months old, and punished her severely at that time." Nurse was holding the baby, and I happened at that instant to be looking that way. The wom-. an's lips were pursed up in her own peculiar style, and the expression of her face implied .that she knew the secret. My daughter is now at Madame Campan's Boarding School, in New York.  She is very ambitious, and stands at the head of her class. I told her if she did not bring me home one of the three best prizes for scholarship, I would n't give'her a new dress for a year, and she knows I   22     Glencoe Parsonage. will do as I say, for she has never known me to do anything els ."  "But, about babies," I said, "tell me about managing babies. What do you do when a child cries at that age?" "In'nine cases out of ten it does not hurt them- to cry. People are altogether too indulgent toward babies."  Just then Henry came in with two ripe peaches in his hand, which Jennie had given him. He had eaten some in the garden, and had stained his ruffles with the juice. His mother saw it at once. "You have been careless, Henry. Give those peaches back to Jennie; you can not have them." "I hope you will excuse him," I said; "Jen- nie was to blame in not giving him a napkin." "Not at all; he knows better." Henry gave up the peaches, but his lip quiv- ered, though he said not a word, and his looks lingered longingly on the forbidden fruit.              .     K   The Young Mother's Plans.    23 When Mrs. Thayer had gone, I lay still for a while, wondering if. I could compel such obedi- ence from my child. Nurse, who is a bit of a gossip, divined my thoughts. "If she was a step-mother, ma'am, the whole town would be talling ag'in her. It is true, as she says, she ha'n't no trouble with her children, and little comfort either, I might say. She gov- erns 'em wholly by fear, but in all their pleasures and troubles they go to their father. But Belinda Mack always was a strange girl. I went to school with her before she was married, and she man- aged to make the teachers think she was a piece of perfection, when all the tine she was tha greatest rogue in the school." "Belinda Mack! Why, she was at boarding school with Mrs. Lincoln, at Bradford." "I believe so, ma'am. I knew her only at the common school. But I remember that 'her hus- band came from Bradford." I recalled the name, and her reputation among   24      Glencoe Parsonage. the scholars, as being secretive and false. They never forgave-her for getting into a closet to hear secrets which she could obtain in no other way. But this woman managed' leer family well, and, notwithstanding nurse's prejudice, her children were models of obedience and neatness. I deter- mined to take lessons from her. I, too, would have perfect obedience, but then, I must be my child's best friend. All his sorrows and joys must. be poured into my ear. What a bright, happy future I pictured to my- self, as the little round face looked up at me from the mass of flannel and white cambAic! Now Ahd then a tiny fist would be squared out at the world above the flannel, as if it said: I shall attend to this matter myself by and by; wait, only wait till I get into jacket and trousers, and we'll see!" Meanwhile the child  grew apace, fat and strong, but the faster it grew the more it cried; till my patience was tried and my nerves wea-k-   4 The Young Mother's Plans.    25 ened with the constant anxiety, watching and care.  Aye, reader, I did my best; but as I 'heard one mother say whod visited me: "One never knows till one tries it, how,many perplexities attend the rearing of a crying baby." I was putting on the fourth white frock one day, when she came in. She was the mother of four sons, who were all worthy and honorable men. "I remember," she said, " one day when my second boy was a baby, that I had no servant, and was very busy. The little one was so still that I suspected mis- chief, and going into a little room adjoining the kitchen, I found him seated in the coal bucket,- evidently his first improvised carriage,-and there he sat for two hours, happy as a king on his throne, his white dress and face and hands dirty as a coal heaver. Better have a soiled dress than spoil the temper of your child by too much washing and changing."  Our home is on the busy village street. I ^   26      Glencoe Parsonage. was annoyed when we came here to find a black- smith's shop nearly opposite the house, but I have learned that there are some pleasant features even in a blacksmith's shop. Our streets are not lighted, but there at the forge is a bright place till nine o'clock. In the long winter evenings there is a positive sense of comfort in looking at the glowing coals, and of protection in the strength of the brawny arms that wield those heavy hammers. They are honest, happy men, and work cheerily; they are prosperous, too, and are making money by their useful craft. The chamber in which I sit has three windows, two looking towards the village street, and one into the green, sjady yard which lies between us and our neighbor Kendall, who owns the forge. A little beyond, at the turn of the road, where the river bends, is a bridge and a mill. I can see the dam from the window, and when the sun shines, I like to watch the sparkle of the falling water.   The Young Mother's .Plans.    27 There is a long, open space between the shiop and the mill, where I can look beyond the river to the cool, green woods, that skirt the edge of the stream, and yet stretch far away, and upward' to the high-hills. There are maples and beeches in the lowland, but the summits of tlW hills are crowned with pines and hemlocks. There is an opening where the. grass is rich and green, and now and then, as the wind moves the foliage of the trees, I see the flicker of sunshine on the grass. I have followed that path, and I know where the, violets cluster in the spring, and. where the wild robin and saxifra'e and bloodroot grow. Just at the entrance of the wood is a little house, where Prince Ebony and his wife live. He is a runaway slave, and found a safe refilge in this place. Melinda, the wife, makes the little gar- den gay with flowers. ,There are scarlet runners and poppies, sunflowers and dahas, and all sorts of sweet herbs for seasoning, for Melinda under- stands how to make savory dishes. There is i. '    28      Glenco- Parsonage. another small house nearer the street; I can just see it from the window. It belongs to Mike, who came from Cork. There are no flowers in that garden, but there are plenty of cabbages and po- tatoes, .and I am sure I see a pig-pen in the cor- ner.  Little Willie is asleep in a cradle by my side. I did not mean to use a cradle for my baby, but he cried so much, that all the old ladies told his father that he must buy a cradle for him. Her- bert has great respect for the wisdom of mothers, and he therefore came home one day with a pretty basket cradle. After all, I think I like to see a baby in a cradle. This is so light that I can move it to any part of the house, myself. I stop my writing often to look at my baby. How happy I am! This room is a cheerful spot. There is a little fire in the old - fashioned fire - place. The brass andirons ale very bright. They once belonged to my glandmother and graced her best room, where I' used to see them on   IThe Young Moter's Plans.    29 Thanksgiving and other festive days, so that they are indelibly associated with happy faces, roast turkey and plum pudding. Many a fair face that now lies in the family burying-ground, has been reflected in their polished surface, and almost all the loved ones that used to sit around the fire in grandma's parlor, have gone totheir long home. The dear old couple walked with God. I remem- ber that my grandfather used to pray that his descendants, to the latest generation, might know and love the God of their fathers. I am contented in this house, but I want a lit- tle home of our own, away from the street. We are very prudent, and are trying to save money from our small salary to buy one.        CHAPTER II. ECSTASY AND ANXIETY. ovemzber 20. -My husband has gone to Pilgrim Hill to see Deacon Bates, who is very sickl He is nearly ninety years of age, and ripe for heaven, but e feel that our church needs him on earth. He seems to me like one of the good men who came over in the Mayflower, he is so strong and reliable. He is sound in the faith, hates tyr- -anny, and would die for his country or his creed. He came here a poor young man, but by his industry and prudence has accumulated a compe- tence. My husband loves him very much, for, while he is not blind to his faults, he sees the good traits in his minister and honors him for his   i Ecstasy and Anxiety.    31 work. He speaks his mind plainly, but always with a genuine kindness that goes to the heart. He said to him, one day: It You must notthink I love you any the less, because you are not the angel Gabriel or can not perform the labor of St. Paul I I only wish that I was wiser and better, that I might help you more, and richer that I might add to your salary, which is too small for you to lay up anything for future want. A 'min- ister can not grow well intellectualry who is struggling all theetime with poverty and anxious about the support of his family. I have noticed that, when I set trees on the north side of my farm, where the wind is always blowing, the soil sandy and no woods to protect them from the winter's cold, they are always stinted in their growth, and the fruit is small and poor. But in the lower orchard, where a belt of woods protects on one side and the long stables on the other, where the snow lingers until May, and the soil is mellow, I perceive that the tree b *       1'      * '  .   32      Glencoe Parsonage. gets a beautiful growth, is 'comely and fair to the sight, and the fruit full of rich juices. So a minster, especially a young pastor, needs to be surrounded by kindness and love. If he is of the right sort, a little protection of loving hearts -and strong hands will make him grow and bear fruit." -The good man has shielded my husband from many a bitter word and sharp tongue, and has shared his basket and his store with us. Evening--Herbert has justereturned from the death-bed of the deacon. The dying' saint breathed his last in the arms of his beloved young pastor. He departed like one starting on a long journey, who has made all ready, and quietly waits the carriage that is to bear him away. His last words were: I know that my Redeemer liveth," with a strong emphasis on the word know. Among other things he said:"God bless your boy, and make him a pillar in the true church." Dear child! you sleep all unconscious of the rich -        * '  "   Ecstasy and Anxiety.     33 legacy of such a blessing. May the good. man's prayer not fail of its answer. Thursday night .4-Deacon Bates's funeral ser- mon was preached to - day, and a long procession followed him to the grave. He was sincerely loved and is truly mourned. I never saw my husband more depressed since he came to Glencoe. He feels like Aaron without Moses, like Paul with- out Barnabas. I sang to him, "Jerusalem, my happy home," and read the papers aloud while he. rested in the old arm chair. When I had finished reading, he sat silent awhile, then said: "I would like to live as long and useful a life as the deacon whom we have buried to - day, but that can not be; my family are not long lived, and. I must do my work quickly. I see a great work for me in Glencoe, and I mean to live and die for this people. I received a call to the city to - dy ;" and he handed me the letter.   34     Glencoe Parsonage. It was an urgent call with an offer of two thou- sand dollars, while our salary in Glencoe is only eight hundred. "We do need more money," I said, glancing at the cradle. - Herbert smiled. "Yes, Bertha; but I see my duty so plainly that I will not be tempted." Sactrday evening. I was sitting by baby's cradle this afternoon, sewing and singing, when Herbert came in with a roll of paper in his hand. "You have not lost your admiration for the house on Poplar hill, I hope, Bertha." "No, indeed; the prettiest spot in all this region!" I replied. "It was sold this morning, and I am now the owner. Deacon Bates planned this little surprise for us, leaving us five hundred dollars toward the payment.- We shall now have a home of our own, a garden for my leisure hours, and a green, quiet spot for our child to play in. Life will be' very pleasant."   Ecstasy and Anxiety.     35 Life pleasant! Ay! is n't it bright for me this day? I thank God for liy husband, for the privilege of laboring with him, for the dear child who binds our hearts more closely, together. Little Willie grows apasce. I am perplexed daily to know how to train him, for he shows a quick temper and a strong will. Jtne 20.-Willie is nine months old to-day. He walks about the house, and is in all the mis-- chief he can find.- His curiosity to pry into the secrets of housekeeping, and into all corners and boxes, is irrepressible. He gets out into the green yard and delights in grass and dandelions, and especially in pebbles and dirt. He has a great fancy for Mr. Kendall, the blacksmith, who sometimes takes him in his arms and carries him across the street. Yesterday, he seated him on a fine horse that was brought to be shod, and Wil- lie seemed as fearless and as delighted as an older boy would have been; patting the horse and try- ing to make it go. When I went over for him,   36      Glencoe Parsonage. he was asleep, with his head against the leather apron of the blacksmith, and his white frock begrimed with the dust of the shop. Next summer we shall be in our own home, away from the village, wher4 I hope to have no trouble in keeping Willie by my side. September 20.-My boy is one year old to- day! It has been the happiest year of my life, so full of joy that I say daily,- "Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name!" I had some perplexity with Willie to -day. I had given him his bath and dressed him in a clean whitefrock, and, as the day was sunny, he trot- ted into the little yard to amuse himself with the miniature wagon which his father had made for him. In less than half an hour he was missing, though the gate was locked. I found him at last in the blacksmith's shop, with a little hammer in his hand, pounding on a piece of iron in imitation of the workmen, his little face and hands very dirty.   Ecstasy and Anxiety.     37 "Come, Willie; mamma wants you."' "I xwon't come. Willie shoe the old horse. Go away, mamma; Willie do n't want mamma any more." It was a trifle, a baby's talk; but somehow it sent a pang through my heart and made me very sad. Would the time come when my boy would not want his mother? I won him home by giving him the hammer and promising him some nails, and kept him there awhile by putting an extra rail upon the fence. He hears profane language there, and I can not let him go any more. "Oh, dear!"I said to my husband; "here is my child liking the blacksmith's shop better than his home. It will not be long before he will be using the language of the place. What shall I do?" "Keep him from the shop, by all means, if you can. But, Bertha, where in the wide world shall we' go to escape the contamination of   38     Glencoe Parsonage. sin? Do you expect your child to be sinless by keeping him from the world? To be good in the absence of temptation is mere negative goodness. Virtue is resistance to evil, and strength is gained by wrestling with wrong,"  "Must we know evil to be good?  Must our little one become strong in the right only by becoming acquainted with sin?" "He will know it, Bertha, if he lives to mature age. He must mingle with men and see the result of sin in this world, before he will be dis- posed to do his part in making men better. It is not our creed that the cloister and the nunnery, the cave and the desert, are gdod for man. No, like Christ, he must mingle with pharisee and publican, and; like him, lay his hand in pitying love on the Samaritan and the despised Magda- lene." I was sad when Herbert- talked  in this way. I wanted my child to be like John, always near the Saviour, and not like Paul, learning of   Ecstasy and Anxiety.     39 him and his followers first by persecuting them. Yes, I wanted him kept from the knowledge of evil as far as possible. He shall be fitted at home for college. His father went through with honor, so can my boy. Yes. I can see the way clearly. He will be a minister, and when Her- bert is old, and I sit in my arm- chair with spec- tacles and knitting wok, our boy will come from his own parish to preach in his father's pulpit 1 I sat and wove my future of bright threads of sunshine and love. June.-  have been so busy moving that I have neglected my journal. We are now in our new home. lMy'happiness is so great that it seems palpable. I grasp it. The world has a new and wondrous charm for m. I wake in the morning with a delightful sense of pleasure, as if I held the day in my hand, filled with duties to be sure, but duties that are only pleasures. Our home is a little paradise. The house is embowered in shrubbery and vines. There is an orchard full of i   40      Glencoe Parsonage. stout apple-trees that are enjoying a green old age; adjoining this is a garden where damask and white roses abound, with striped grass, where Willie and I sat to - day, trying to find two spires alike; then there is coriander and summer savory, and wormwood and sage.         l Herbert is a good gardener, and has bought- me a garden hat and a setof garden tools, that I may work with him. I have laid aside all Wil- lie's white frocks and delicate shoes, and bought him stout, dark ginghams and thick shoes, and a coarse straw hat. He, too, has his little hoe and rake, and works with us. He troubles us by dig- ging up the seeds to see if they are sprouting, and pulling off the scions which his father inserts in his young trees. He has had some discipline in this matter. Lately he takes to worms and bugs and toads; all sorts of creeping things have a charm for him. I am my own servant how, and do my house- work, with the occasional assistance of a woman   Ecstasy and Anxiety.     41 who lives in a little house at the foot of our hill. The day goes quickly by, full of such a quiet hap- piness that I often ask myself, - Can heaven be more delightful? Herbert toils hard in his parish work, but it does not seem to weary him, for God blesses him. Our Sunday school has almost doubled within two years. The congregation has increased so much that we have enlarged our church, and now have a neat and comely house for our worship. "I-have had no shady side, as yet," Herbert said, last week; "but no doubt it will come, for none are exempt from trouble." I have been absent on a journey with mly hue- band. We took no wedding trip when we were married, but promised ourselves one whenever the time should come that we could take one without lightening our small purse too much. We have been to the sea - side, and have spent a week upon the beach, taking n sail every day. It was a new life to me, and we have come back   42      Glencoe Parsonage. to the mountains sympathizing with the psalmist; and thohgh I felt, when watching the ceaseless motion of the waves andhstening to their music, that the sea is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, yet when we entered our little yalley, and fol- lowed the winding road among the hills, I could not help saying to Herbert, "The mountains shall bring peace to thy people." Our home!  There it was, nestled quietly amid the trees, full of welcome, as we fancied,  for us.  I have been very busy, and Herbert has more than usual to occupy him in the study and the parish. For these reasons, perhaps, Willie has been left to amuse himselfmore than usual. To -day he was missing, and as the gate was open, I concluded he had strayed into the high - way, and followed on. Sure enough, for there were indubitable traces of the child in the print of one little barefoot and one shoe, alternating.   "'Our home, thler  it was., nestled quietly amlidl thc  trees, full of welcomle,' as wre fanieid, for uls."          ag  2    u   'Ecstasy and Anxiety.     43 I followed the tracks, and they led me to the vil- lage and straight to the blacksmith's shop. There was my child seated upon a horse near the door, having climbed up himself from the horse - block. When he saw me, he tried to start the horse that he might ride away from my sight. Mr. Kendall was near and opened his arms for Willie to come to him. The child sprang towards him, and laying his little fat hand on Mr. Kendall's shoulder, said: "You be a darned good fellow. Willie go with you." The blacksmith and his assistants laughed hear- tily, which pleased Willie so much that he repeated it. I was so shocked and grieved that I was speechless, and could only take Willie in my arms and carry him home. When I came to my own room, I sat down and wept,- a very weak' thing to do, I acknowl- edge.   "     Glencoe Parsonage. Willie, who was standing near me, could not bear to see my tears, and thinking to make me laugh, repeated the words which he had used at the shop. I tried to explain to him that the words were very wicked, but he replied;: Uncle Kinney say so. Uncle Kinney good." He seems to be learning evil every day, and I find that my work is only undoing, instead of quietly forming character as I had intended. I have no little, loving Saint John to bless our ' household, but a fat, red - cheeked, healthy, ob- streperous boy, who will not be petted, who can not sit still even in family prayers, who prefers a stick and a rocking - horse to a book, and whom I scarcely dare to take to church lest he mor- tify me by some roguish trick, I took him with me last Sunday, but while his father was at prayer, he heard the stamping of horses in the sheds near the church, and climbing over the side of the pew, found his way to Mr. Kendall, saying: 'Please, Mr. Iinney, go and   Ecstasy and Anxiety.     45 see horses. I tired of meeting." He is quick- tempered, too, and shows it by flashing Oyes and stamping feet. Charlie Lincoln comes to see him often, but, instead of the quiet play which I had hoped from the children, they are much of the time, like two belligerents, in open warfare. They love each other, but each one wishes to lead. I seldom take Willie to Mrs. Thayer's house, for it is such a standing reproach to me to see the obedient and subdued manner of her boy, so dif- ferent from my boisterous child. My husband is oven-tempered and gentle in his ways, never speaking in haste, entirely unlike his child. He is wholly unprepared for the fun and mischief that are continually bubbling up in his boy; but Willie, with all his willfulness and high- temper, yields more readily to his father than to me. To me the boy seems like a steam engine under full headway; it is dangerous to stop it too sud- f    "i  '   CGZenco 'Parsonage. denly, andyet you are in constant fear lest it may do mischief. Iam always putting on the brakes. I had expected a quiet, gentle child, and behold I here is the steam engine, and I have neither Watt's ingenuity or Fulton's wisdom.   CHAPTER III. PHASES OF CHLD-LIFE. R. HOLDEN has just finished (.^A building a house on the lot joining ' our garden, and the family are mov- ing in this, week. He is a member of our church, and I try to like him, but he is a hard, stern man, one of those men of coarse fiber, great endurance and ruggedthealth, who have lit- tle sympathy with weak and suffering humanity. He is a Christian of the Cromwellian sort, and would like. better to fight for his Master than to sit at his feet and learn of him. He is plain and primitive in his habits, and has a great contempt for all that is ornamental in life.   48     Glencoe Parsonage. I am afraid of him, because I know he has found so much fault with me. At one time, he told some of the church members that I set a very bad example to the church, because I used a silver tea - pot every day. It was my grandmother's;: she gave it to me before she died, telling me to use it constantly. When I heard what Mr. Holden said, I bought a tin tea- pot and used it the next time he visited me; then his wife found fault, saying she was not treated as well as other people, for there was no silver tea - pot for her.  "Oh dear! Herbert, what does Saint Paul mean when he says we must become all things to all men? Whenever I try to be like the saints and apostles, I make a wretched failure." "I do not think, Bertha, that he intended that we should trouble ourselves about the gospel of ignorant people." "Do you think he would use the silver teax-pot in spite of Mr. Holden?"   Phases of Child-Life.     49 Decidedly. Saint Gaul was a nan of culti- vated taste and good judgment, and would have used the silver tea- pot -as a matter of economy. It has lasted through two generations and will no doubt be used by two more ;" and he turned to his sermon, never thinking of the tea-pot again, or realizing for a moment that he had quieted my trouble. My husband is always a tower of refuge to me in any perplexity. Mrs. Holden was a quiet, timid little woman, living in great awe of her husband, who looked like a giant at her side. She died a few months since, and her little boy, about the age of Willie, is left to the tender mercy' of the father and his maiden sister, Aunt Rachel, the feminine counter- part of the father. He is a beautiful boy, with large, black eyes, drooping lashes and dark curly hair. The father has, no doubt, a natural affec- tion for his child, but he never fondles him or ex- presses any tenderness towards him.  Aunt Rachel scrubs him daily with soap - suds, scolds 4,   50      Glencoe Parsonage. him soundly if he soils his clothes, and makes him read the Bible, and say a little of the cate- chism, daily. Yes, the father has natural affec- tion for the child, no doubt; but he seems to see in him only a subject for discipline. "The rod and reproof, the rod and reproof," he repeats often; " these put wisdom into a child and drive folly out." He forgets that a wise physician does not use his most powerful medicines for slight ailments. The little boy has! had some terrible whippings, young as he is, and lives in constant fqr of his father. September 6. - Willie has learned to read, and to print letters with a pencil. I hoped, when he had become able to-read, he would amuse him- self with books, and be more subdued and tract- able. Vain delusion! He is too busy for that, excepting Sundays. He always has some work on hand, -a house building in the orchard, a mill by the water pipe, or work on his farm. IA   Phases of Child-Lzfe.     51 He has a piece of land which he calls his own, and which is plowed and planted, and produces a rotation of crops in one season. Books are thrown aside, and the only literary taste which he displays is the printing of a week- ly newspaper with a pencil. It is composed al- most entirely of advertisements for fast trotting horses, steam-plows, horse -rakes and a menage- rie. These menageries arc exhibited in our barn, and before I knew what was going on, there were actually on hand, in little cages, five cats, two dogs, one toad, two squirrels, a little tank of polywogs and two suckers in one of my china bowls. It so happened that we had a very bad season for our garden, the year that Mr. Holden came to live upon the hill. He was no favorite wifli the children,- his stern, reticent manner forbidding any near ap- proach to him, and Willie, of course, shared this feeling in common with the other children. One   52      Glencoe Parsonage.  day this notice appeared in the columns of his Weekly Advertiser: "Mr. Holden looked upon our apples and they blasteded. "He treaded on our fields, and the corn growed not. "He looked on our flowers, and they withered away." I discovered a copy of the paper in a box where he kept his painting tools, as he called his pencil, paper, knife and spelling book. "Willie," said I, "have you more than one copy of your paper this week?  "Yes, mamma, I have six 'scribers."' "Who are they, Willie?" "Mr. Dana,- he keeps store, you know,- and I advertise for him. Then there is Frank Holden, and Charlie Lincoln, and Aunt Betsey, and Mr. Wood, the postmaster." I said nothing to Willie about his obnoxious article, but hastened to the study, where my en-   Phases of Child-Life.     53 trance, no doubt, cut the thicad of a sermon. " Herbert! what shall we do with this boy?" "What now, Bertha?" as he laid down his pen with a smile, evidently not alarmed. He read the paper.-"This is unfortunate. I wonder how- the child got such a prejudice  against Mr. Holden?" "I uppose he shares it in common with all the other children of the place." "His style is scriltural and somewhat figurative. I have not thought him possessed of much flncy." "Mr. Holden will be mortally offended." "Perhaps he will not see it, my dear. He takes but little notice of the doings of children. Willie " Willie came at his bidding, holding a torn hat in one hand, and his cat, pressed close to his side, in the other. "Why did you write this article about Mr. Holden?" "I just thought of it, papa, when he came   54      Glencoe Parsonage. through the garden one day, and looked very cross. "But Mr. Holden is a better man than you think, Willie. When we had a war with Eng- land, he went into the army and fought bravely for us. The enemy took him prisoner and kept him shut up in a dungeon with only bread' and water to eat, and told him they would hang him unless he would come 6ver to their side. They offered him freedom, and gold if he would turn traitor." "What did he say?" asked Willie, dropping his cat, and coming closer to his father. Why, that they might hang him and starve him, but he would be true to his country." "How did he get out of prison?" "He was exchanged for some men that we held as prisoners." "I never will write anything more against him, papa. Do you suppose Mr. Beecher knew this about him?"   Phases of Child-Life.     55 "I do n't know; why do you ask?" Because, when he visited here, I heard him say, -- that man's heart was as shrunk in him as the meat of an old dried nut; one can hear it rattle as he walks.' I got close to him one day, but I coul& not heal it. Perhaps I should, if he had not told me to run away. I asked Frankie about it, and he said it rattled hardest when his father was asleep. I am sorry for Frankie, papa. He goes to the grave-yard and sits down by his mother's grave. He says no one kisea- him or loves him now." "You'love him, .Willie, and can tell him so, and his father and aunt take good care of him." "Yes, I suppose so, papa; but the other day he wandered away to the grave- yard, and stayed there so long that he fell asleep on his mother's grave. His aunt Rachel found him there after his bed-time, and his father gave him a terrible whipping for being out so late." I left the room, but my heart ached for little   56     Glencoe Parsonage. Frank, and I could see only a sad future for him. And yet, if I question my neighbor's mode of government, may he not say,-"Look at home!" for where is there a more difficult child to man- age than my own boy? I bought Willie a little missionary box, that he might save something of his own to give to the poor at home and the heathen abroad. One day he was playing in the yard. with Minnie Brown, who had a beautifully dressed doll in her hand. A beggar woman passed, followed by a forlorn looking little girl, ragged and dirty. The child peeped through the fence very wist- fully at the doll, and pulled her mother's gown' that she might see it, too. "Come along, child; such things aren't for the like of you." But .the child remained, looking at the doll. "Have n't you a dolly?" said Willie. "No, never had none,-see 'em in shop win- dows,- that's pretty."   Phases of Child-Life.     57 Little Minnie hugged her doll closely, and drew back. Willie went to the house for his nmis- sionary box, broke it open, and, running down to the store, gave about all his mnoney for a doll. "Here, take it, my girl; here's a doll." Mr. Holden noticed this transaction, for he was at work in his garden at the time. He came to me with a grave face. "I 'll tell you what, ma 'am, if you allow your boy in such waste and extravagance as that, your husband's salary will come short." I felt my temper rise and my cheek flush. But I forced back the angry retort which rose, to my lips. How often for my husband's sake had I done this? When Herbert came in I carried the empty box and told him what a naughty boy Wil- he had been. "Not naughty at all; I am proud of the boy. It has taught ne a lesson. Next Christmas we will buy some dolls, and you may dress them if you will, and give them to those poor children   58     eGlencoe Parsonage. who have none. I ought to have thought of it without the aid of such a reminder." t Why, Herbert, would you encourage our boy- in taking his missionary money to buy dolls for poor children?" "I certainly shall not censure him for so doing. Life is hard and dreary to the poor, at best. Shall we not gratify their craving for the beautiful as well as their physical hunger? Remember the costly box of ointment." But, Herbert, that was our Saviour." "Inasmuch as ye have have done it unto one of the least of these, ye have done it unto me." I went away, musing.- "Good people differ," I said to myself, for, after all, Mr. Holden is a good man, though the old Adam, which he talks about so much, creeps out once in a while. "Mamma," said Willie, the next day, "I have been making a trade. You know the jumping jack which uncle Nat gave me? Well, Jim White told me he would give me a dollar for it, and I   Phases of Child-Life.     59 thought you would feel so bad about my spending my money for the beggar girl, that I went down to - day and sold it. Here is the money." "But Willie, you should never make such trades without consulting me." "I will not, mamma, if you say so. But uncle Kinney told a man the other day that women did n't know any thing 'about trades; 'these wom- en spile a bargain,' he said." And this from my child, six years old-, that I have watched and guarded with special care! "You never heard father talk in this way, Willie." "But father is a minister. Ministers never go to auctions, or trade horses, or buy goods.", "But, Willie, some day I hope you will be a minister, like your father." No, noo,mamma. I will not be a minister, to write sermons and attend funerals. I am going to be a stage-driver, with four white horses; wo'nt I make 'em go?"And he ran away to I.   60      Glencoe Parsonage. harness Rover to his little -wagon and play stage- driver. I went to my room to pray for wisdom and pa- tience to guide my child aright. I wanted to be a watcher at the temple of my child's heart, that no unclean thing enter; but, alas! every day the little gleaner is gathering more tares than wheat. Heaven help me May my work hot prove a failure. Poor little Frank Holden! -I must gather him into the arms of my love, too. His father seems to be blind to the bright promise which the boy gives. He loves books better than Willie, but he is a very nervous, sensitive child, inheriting his mother's temperament. He neeeds patience and gentle treatment, but he receives only harshness and constant reproof: The little tree will become stunted in its growth.   CHAPTER IV. 'STRENGTH WITIOUT GENTLENESS. "Prayer is the Christian's vital breath, Thle Christian's native air, His watchword at the gates of death,- He enters heaven with lrayer." RUSHED into the study! My face  y was flushed and my heart beat fast. erbert had been at prayer; I knew it by the rapt look upon his face, by the sweet calm of his manner. "Herbert! do you believe that God lanswers prayer; fully believe it with all your heart, so that, A  when you pray for spiritual blessings, you wait in faith, expecting the answer?" My husband turned his large, full, blue eyes   62      Glencoe Parsonage. upon me with a look of mute, earnest inquiry, in which was mingled a shade of reproach. "I know what I am asking," I said, in reply to that look. I have lost faith and am groping in the darki" "There is a quaint, old writer, Bertha, who says: 'Answer your own prayers;' in' other words, work as well as pray." "And have I not? O Herbert! I have prayed for our child, incessantly, day and night, ever since he was born. I consecrated him to God from the first moment of his existence. I do not ask any greater worldly honor than to have him a devoted minister, like yourself. I wanted to guard him from all sin, and you see he is full of mischief, and how prone to do wrong all the time." "Yes, yes, Bertha, but a great deal of it is the effervescence of high spirits, such as we find in all healthy children. I. wish we retained more of it as we grow older. But, my dear wife, I   Strength without Gentleness.   63 ;.            ( must be faithful to. you. Your intense anxiety for this child is one form of selfishness; your love is too absorbing, and I tremble lest you suf- fer for it." This was too much for me; I burst into tears. "  Herbert, my  punishment has  come already!" He was standing, leaning one arm upon the mantel as I spoke. He drew me towards him, and as I leaned my head upon him, I felt his hand smoothing my hair, as he said: "What now, Bertha?  What great crime has our Willie committed?"  "Herbert!"I gasped, "Mr. Holden has been here, and he says," -here I broke down; I could go no further. "Do not be troubled, Bertha; let me know what he says?" "He says that- that - our Willie has been -stealing! Stealing his' water-melons! only think! Our little boy, the minister's son, steal-     "      Glencoe Parsonage. ing water - melons!" And I broke down really gasping for breath. The shame and the fear were almost crushing me. "That is a serious charge, Bertha. Is he sure of it?" "Yes; he says that Charles Lincoln, Henry Thayer, Jim Brown and his own boy were in the garden yesterday afternoon, playing. Aunt Rachel saw them, and, besides, saw Jim Brown run away with a big one in his hand. More- over, Henry  Thayer told his mother that Willie and Frank picked the water -melons from the vines, and piled them up. He says he watched them through the paling of the fence." "Have you asked Willie about it?" "I dare not; I am so afraid he will deny it, and add lying to stealing." His father called him. -        . He came in with a very soiled apron, -it was clean this morning, --and his hat torn again, that is the. third hat this season, - strange that he   Strength without Gentleness.   65 should lie so careless of his clothes! I have often charged him to watch himself. "Willie, did you. take Mr. Iolden's melons?" "Not to eat, sir. I would n't eat one of them, but I helped pick them off, I guess I picked the most of them!" His eyes flashed as if he were not at all ashamed of the deed, but when he saw his father'4 grieved and surprised look, his countenance fell, and his manner wa;s more subdued. "You see, sir, I was very angry because his father whipped him. Frank did n't do anything to deserve a whipping. 'He only took up Aunt Rachel's white rose - bush, without ,asking her, and put it on his mother's grave. It didn't do well, and died. When Aunt Rachel found out what he had done, she was very angry, and told his father he ought to be whipped for doing such things without permission; so his father whipped him and sent him to bed without his-supper. We boys said, 'We 'll fix him.' "   "    Glencoe Parsonage. Whom do you mean by 'we boys?" asked his father.  Willie hesitated. "I'd rather not tell; I'd sooner be whipped than tell." "Very well, how did 'we boys'fix it?' "Why, you see, Mr. Holden thinks a great deal of his melons. He sells them at the rail- road depot for a great deal of money; so we said he should have no water - melons this year. We pulled them all from the vines, every one of them!" 'I saw that Herbert felt that this was a grave offense, and Willie began to think the same, as he followed his father to the study. "Aunt Betsey" was in the garden picking a basket of apples. She is a maiden lady who lives near us, a dear good sister in the church whom we all love very much. I went out to her, and she comforted me with the words: "Boys will be boys; of course his father will punish him; but do not let it trouble you- too much; the s   Strength without Gentleness.   7 little fellow will outgrow these things by and by." It is not always so. The peccadillos of the child are sometimes the crimes of the man. When Willie came out of his father's room he looked very grave, and I saw he had been weep- ing. He went directly to the garden with his lit- tle wagon, and picked all the ripe melons from our vines, and drew them in the direction of Mr. Holden's house. I heard Aunt Betsey say, - Every one, Wil- lie?" "Yes, every one; if he would only let me save one for mamma, I would not care; but he says neither he nor mother will eat a water - melon from our vines unless Mr. Holden gives them to us.", "I guess he '1 give you sonic, never fear," said Aunt Betsey. "I guess he won't!" said Willie, and walked off with his load. The words of my husband sank deep into my   68 .      Glencoe Parsonage. heart. "Your intense love for this child is one form of selfishness." I determined to do more for other children. I would begin with Frank Holden. He was an unhappy child. What sad- der sight! August 1.-I saw Frank Holden sitting under a tree in our orchard to - day, during school hours. I went out to speak to him. He rose as I came towards him, and said: "I was hoping, ma'am, you would come this way. I can not go to your house, because my father has forbidden me to go, as a punishment." I could hardly realize, as I looked at the tall, manly boy before me, that it was the same child that used to be brought in his mother's arms to our house. He is now nearly twelve years old, and almost fitted for college!" "I am sorry, Frank, that you have so much trouble at home. Be patient. In a little while you will be fitted for college, and then matters may mend."   Strength without Gentleness.  69 "My father' has altered his mind about my going to college, and says-he shall apprentice me to Mr. Long, the shoemaker. I can go to school this winter, and in. the spring I must go into the shop."  My whole soul rebelled against this disposition of the boy, and I was sure by his manner that he was resenting it deeply. -Frank is a fine scholar, always standing at the head of his class. "I hope he will think better of it by spring," I said; "you must study hard this winter, and get such a standing in the school that he will con- sent to your going to college." I do study hard, Mrs. Lee; I am willing to study hard; but father will not alter his mind. He says I have such a bad disposition and am so stubborn that I will never be fit for anything, and he has no money to waste upon me. I do not know but he is right. I feel wicked enough, most of the time. I vish I was dead. I am afraid you will think I am not fit to play with   70      Glencoe Parsonage. Willie; but I have tried to keepl him from some bad things. I wish Jim Brown would not try to teach him to smoke." "Teach him to smoke! My baby, almost, - for so he seems to me, Frank,- smoking!" "Jim Brown told Willie that, if he would smoke a little paper cigar which he had made and had filled with tobacco, he would .give him fifty cents." -I was so surprised and grieved at this informa- tion that I did not talk with Frank as I intended. I regretted it very much afterwards. The next morning, while we were at breakfast, Mr. Holden came in and inquired if Frank was in the house. On being told that he was not, he added: "Then he must have run away. His best clothes are gone, and ten dollars from my desk. The money was his own, however.. Do you know where he has gone, Willie?" he asked, in a stern voice, such as a man uses when his passions are more active than his reason.   Strength without Gentleness.  '71 Willie hesitated a moment. We were all look- ing at him. "Yes, sir," he said at last. "Well, then tell, and be quick about it, too!" Willie made no reply. Mr. Holden was impatient and spoke decidedly. "Tell me, I say, and waste no time, for I am in a hurry." "I can not tell you, for I promised I would not."  "Do n't trifle with me in that way, youngster; you are both bad boys, and going to destruction." Willie looked so . angry, that I involuntarily rose to lay my hand upon him, lest he should do or say something very wrong. His father, by a look, checked ne. "Mr. Iolden," said Willie, "I can't tell where Frank is, because I promised I would not; so you need not ask me any more." Mr. Holden walked out, and went directly t( the telegraph office, and from there went in his   72     Glencoe Parsonage. wagon to the station. My husband took the Bible for family worship, and nothing more was, said upon the subject, Three hours afterwards, Mr. Holden rode past our house with Frank tied into the back of the wagon, very much as a farmer ties a sheep that he is taking to market. Herbert sighed. Alas!" said he, "whenwill men learn that it is no light task to train an im- mortal soul?" Mr. Holden came in after dinner, and went directly to the study. Well, Mr, Lee, I have come over to have a little talk with you about my boy. I have him shut up in the cellar. He deserves to be thrashed within a inch of his life, and I shall give it to him, but what to do with'him then I do n't know. He is so uneasy at home that there is no knowing but he will be off again." Herbert was very glad of this opportunity to speak a few words of warning and advice. He did   Strength without Gentleness.   73 it faithfully, and I must do Mr. Holden the jus- tice to add, that he received it kindly. His eyes were opened, in a measure, to the truth, that a child's home must be made happy for him, or he will find his pleasure elsewhere. He sent Frank over on some errand in the evening, and the two were closeted in the study awhile. When he came out, he seemed to wear a more peaceful expree- sion. I hope there will be better times at home after this day. 'September 20. Willie is seven years old to- day. Aunt Lincoln sent word that she had a present for him. He was so eager to go, that he could hardly wait till I could go with him. When we entered the house, there was an unusual still- ness prevailing. Charlie camne into the sitting room and said, in a whisper, to Willie: "Mother said I must not tell you anything about your present till you came to her room." It is singular that Aunt Mary has always been such a favorite with my boisterous Willie. But   74     Glencoe Parsonage. it has been so from his birth. When a .crying baby, her touch would quiet him when music failed; and as he grows older, the friendship strengthens. Her gentle, even temperament is such a contrast to his impulsive nature, that it may have a charm for him. Opposites combine; contraries repel. But, to - day, when Willie entered her darken- ed chamber, he hardly knew how to carry himself when he found' her in bed with a babe at her side. Here, Willie," shesaid, "is your birth - day present!" He  stood still in blank astonishment for awhile, and when he found words to speak, asked: "What shall I do with it, Auntie?" "Name it, Willie, we have all concluded to let you name it. When you are older, you inust' love her and help take care of her, and never let a naughty word fall upon her little ears." "May n't say jolly and---- "    Strength without Gentleness.   75 "Stop, Willie; see, she has earsnow; they look like tiny pink shells." "Why, Aunt Mary, she is n't bigger than my kitten. How much suppose she'll weigh, now?" "Just six pounds." "But what will you name her, Willie?" "Why, Auntie, if she. is going to play with me, and ride in my wagon, and slide down hill in winter, I should like to' call her Katie." June clapped her hands with delight. "I knew you would call it Katie, and that is just the name we all like." "Perhaps you will like Katie's present better than mine. You will find it down stairs." I thought the children had remained long enough in the chamber, and sent them away. Willie found a box of tools as Katie's present, with which he was certainly better pleased than with Katie herself. I sat by Mary's side for an hour, and as I looked upon the little sleeper, a sweet fancy stole     76ti    Glencoe Parsonage.  into my heart. "Who knows but she may be a  good angel, that shall guide my boy into ways of  gentleness and peace?"'            i Mary has great faith for her children. "I know," she Said, "that my Charlie is a  wild, careless boy now; but, Bertha, my faith fails not. He will preach the gospel some day, and I  shall live to hear him.'   : I dare not be so confident about my child. Mary, the eldest daughter of Mrs. Lincoln, is a  lovely, consistent Christian. Mother and daugh-  ter take sweet counsel together, and are loving friends ;-how rare a circumstance in this world! i Henry Lord, the son of their nearest neighbor, is finishing his studies in Germany. He writes to Mary often, and before many years, perhaps, he will ask my friend to give him her most precious treasure. I asked Mary if she would be willing to part with her. "I would not be be so selfish as to keep her with me. My own married life is too happy for   -trengtn wzrnout el ueneness.   ( ne to wish to deprive Mary of being a wife and nother." Willie has been very happy to-day. As he ies asleep, he looks like a gentle child that might be led with a silken string. How plump and rosy ie is, and how beautifully his brown hair curls! Che presents which he has received to- day are all aroufid him. There is Katie's box of tools, Robinson Crusoe with illustrations,' a dissected nap from his father, and a pair of boots from nother. They are his first boots. I think this ast piesent gives him the most pleasure. Who vould think that a bit of calf - skin could fill a ,hild's head with such perfect satisfaction? What s the mystery? Aye, it is one step onward to nanhood.  Children sec the size, the strength, and feel the power of the man; but how ignorant of the toil, the responsibility, the temptations and the sorrow of mature years! If angelhood brings such increased responsibility in proportion to power, we night wall fear to ascend unto its hihts.   78 .    Glencoe Parsonage. What a chubby, strong hand that is which is laid upon the boots! Willie is a strong, healthy child, and has never taken medicine. Aunt Betsey says,-and she has had a great deal of experience with children,-that the spirit of all mischief enters into healthy children, and that boys who are sick once in a while are more manageable. "Then give me'the ungovernable ones," Her- bert says. Willie goes to school now, and is very ambitious to be at the head of his class. But the teacher says he can not sit still, and is full of mischief. He is too much given to making comments and practical observations when they read the Bible,- in imitation, I suppose, of his father. Whetl they were reading the story of the prophet and the bears; he said: "Miss Crain, I think Mr. Holden would be willing to be called 'bald head' if the bears would come and eat up all the boys in Glencoe." Spring is her, and spring \is a Welcome Of                 .   Strength without Gentleness.   79 guest at the parsonage, for the snow has lain deep in orchard and garden, and the north winds have blown fierce and strong. We have with diffi- culty kept a narrow path open to the road, and have been, for weeks together, almost shut out from the world. But the snow has melted, the south breezes blow gently, the violets have sprung up in their "old haunts," and Willie keeps a vase on my table, filled with them, Henry Lord has returned from Germany to re- main a few months, but he goes back in the fall as private secretary to our minister at Berlin. I saw him ridingr with Mrs. Lincoln's daughter Mary to - day, and I think it will not be long be- fore my friend must part with her first-born. Thus it is! Our children mingle in the battle of life almost before we are aware that they are weaned from our arms. --  "Mamma! mamma!" cried Willie this  morning, " do you hear the fire bells?" and he came rushing through the house like a small tornado.   80     Glencoe Parsonage. "Where s papa?" he said, as the study door was flung open with a bang that resounded through the house. Papa had gone to the Post Office, and before I had time to check the child, he was half- way to the village. I waited in great suspense, bat neither father nor son made his appearance till night- fall. At last Willie came in alone, ragged, hun- gry and tired. "I have been to the fire, mother; may I have some supper?" "You don't deserve any, Willie. You are a naughty boy, to go away and keep me in such anxiety all day." Meanwhile I was getting him some bread and milk. He was so sleepy and tired that I had no heart to punish him then, but I told him that in the morning we would have  a settlement. He  must learn not. to run away in that fashion. He was too sleepy for any words to have much   Strength without Gentleness.  81 effect upon him, and had washed himself and put on his night- gown, when his father came in. "Ah, my boy, is that you?" and he tool; him in his arms and kissed him. I looked on in indignant surprise. Strange way to treat a child who has given his mother eight long hours of anxiety! "My noble boy! imy little hero!" his father added. To be sure, I said to myself, he is a handsome little fellow, with his high, white forehead and dark curls, but how foolish in his father to tell him of it!  Meanwhile I was looking from father to son in great perplexity. "Why, Willie, have n't y6u told your mother?" "I was too tired and sleepy, papa; but I am glad the old lady didn't burn  up, aren't you?" Willie jumped into bed, and was asleep almost before his head touched the pillow. *   82     Glencoe parsonage. "What has my boy done to be called a hero?" I asked. "I hope you do n't call running away and leaving me to suffer eight hours of suspense, any- thing heroic!"  "He followed the crowd to the fiife, walking nearly all the way, till Mr. Kendall, happening to see him, took him into his wagon. When they arrived, the hotel was in flames, and the fire- men, in their anxiety to save that, did not notice that Esquire Parsons's house had taken fire. The barn was full of hay, and, before they could turn their engines in that direction, the house and barn were in flames. No one remembered the old lady, who is bed - ridden. The Irish girl, in her fright, had run from the house. But Willie, our little Willie, thought of Grandma Parsons, and rushed right into the house, where he found her trying to escape, but her poor, paralyzed limbs refused to obey her will. Willie persuaded some boys to help him, and they had got her outside thedoor, when Mr. Lincoln, who had just arrived in town, i, A  .     Strength without Gentleness.   83 met them. They tell me that Willie was black with smoke and his hat thoroughly scorched." "To be sure, he was dirty and ragged," I said; "and as for his hat, it is always torn. I bought him a new" one yesterday." I found it at once. There it was, blackened and torn! Before I was aware of it, my tears were falling,-tears of joy and pride. . My boy, the roguish, restless child that was so full of mischief, had done a deed of which a man might be proud I I could not keep away from him, but went and waked him with my kisses. "I am so glad, Willie, that you saved dear old Grandma Parsons, Aunt Mary's mother, you know!" "Yes, and Aunt Mary wants us all to come there to - morrow and have a celebration. You 'll go, mamma, and we'll have a 'hunkey-dory' time; but I am so sleepy!" and he nestled down again to the sweet sleep of a tired child. I turned away with a sigh. Oh, dear! why   84      Glencoe Parsonage.  will he spoil his good deeds with the low, vulgar language of the streets?" --- We had a gala day at Mrs. Lincoln's house. Grandma Parsons was there in the seat of honor, and Willie was at her right hand. "Sun- beam" had made a beautiful bouquet and laid it by his plate, and Aunt Mary had ordered chicken and "little boys' pudding," his favorite dishes. Uncle Lincoln had invested one hundred dollars in the savings bank in Willie's name, which present did not seem to call forth any expression of grati- tude from the child; but when Henry Lord gave him a four bladed pen-knife, he felt himself on the very topmost ladder of his ambition. "You are our hero, to- day," said Aunt Mary, when she placed him beside grandmother.  "What is a hero, Aunt Marj?" he asked. She hesitated a moment, and he added: "It is n't a good boy, Aunt Mary; I \an sure of thit.' "Why so, Willie?"   Strength without Gentleness.   85 "Because I am not a good boy. Nobody calls me good, and I do n't want to be a good boy. All the good boys that I read about die young, and I want to live to be a man. Then I like to run with firemen to the engine, and they are not good, for they swear terribly; but I 'd rather go with them to a fire than go to a meeting." I' suppose I looked very sad, for I caught Her- bert's eyes fixed upon me, and I read what his lips so often say to me: "Do not despair; have faith for our boy." "But what is a hero?" said Willie. "I think one definition is,- '"He that is willing to incur danger and suffer- ing for others." There was a pause, and a hush as if each one was criticising Aunt Mary's definition; when little June broke the silence by saying: "Then, mother, I know, who is the greatest hero the world ever saw. For Christ so loved the world that he gave himself to die for us." t     O   86     -Glencoe JParsonage. I wish Willie was different,-more yielding and gentle, more disposed to read. Herbert says often: "Remember what St. Paul says: When I was a child, I thought as a child, I spake as a child.' God's promise is to believing parents, and I shall claim it, working for the conversion of my child, and never ceasing to pray for him. I dare not ask for any other blessing with such assurance, but this one,-the conversion of my child,- God will grant it to me in his own good time. It may be when I am dead, but it will come. This faith buoys me up in many an hour of discour- agement And fear. July   .When I last wrote in this journal, it was spring. The world was all bright to me. I was so happy in my home, in husband and child, that I used often to say: "I ask no more; only let me hold these treasures." I loved to have husband and child in sight, and grudged the time that Willie spent away from me. 1   Strength without Gentleness.   87 Alas I there came a time when he seldom left me,-when for three weeks he was constantly by my side! Those days came in June, -June, when the roses were in bloom in our garden, and the apple trees rich with their fair, sweet prom- ises, when the honeysuckles and violets whispered sweetness, and the world,-our world,-was full of beauty and love! As I now write with trem- bling fingers and dimmed vision, that June rises before me, and I forget all the other Junes of my life!   CHAPTER V. THE GREAT DARKNESS. ay 20,- Two or, three ministers were in our parlor this morning; on \f ^    ^their way to New York. My hus- band goes with them to attend the anniversaries, which, to many of our country cler- gymen, are what the feasts at Jerusalem were to the devout Jews. Herbert will be absent three or four weeks. As we were saying our good- byes, Willie stepped up to his father and said: "Father, do n't forget to go to Barnum's and see the great sea - horse; and, father, if you could just go out to Harlem, and see the famous Kentucky mare that   The Great Darkness.     89 runs a mile in 'two - thirty, you would get well paid for your journey."' I was mortified, as was evident from the color in my face; but Herbert whispered: "Be patient; do n't expect Willie to preach till he has studied 'divinity." Our home was very lonely without, its head, but we resolved to improve the time by putting into execution a plan which we had formed to give papa a surprise. This was to paint, paper and carpet the study, anew. I had a little sum of my own, which I had carefully hoarded for that purpose. While the painter was doing his work, we amused ourselves in selecting paper and carpet. How fastidious we were! At last, after much delay and many private consultations, Willie an;/ I fixed upon a neat paper, with a gray, neutral tint, that made a good back -ground for the three or four pictures which the room contained. The carpet which we chose   90      Glencoe Parsonage. was what is called the moss pattern, looking so much, when down, like the fresh, green moss of the woods, that, when Willie filled the hanging- baskets with wild flowers, the room had a sweet, fresh, spring look that was delightful. Our work proved a success; for the beauty of the room, when completed, exceeded our expectations. One evening, at twilight, I sat upon the lounge fancying Herbert's surprise and pleasure, when he should enter the stucy on his return. "Now, mamma, when papa gets here, it will be about supper- time; do you think he will come up to the study before supper!" "Very likely he will, my son." "Then I shall not be here; because you know, mamma, I must drive the horse down to uncle's." "Let me see, Willie; we shall be here about seven, if we go to the depot to meet your father. Aunt Betsey will be here, and we will ask her to have the supper on the table when we arrive. You may keep the key of the study in your   The Great Dalrkness.    91 pocket, and that will prevent papa from getting in too soon."  This arrangement was satisfactory to Willie, and he turned to his book,-"Swiss Family Robinson ;" but before long he fell asleep upon the carpet where he had thrown himself down to read. I 'sat and mused. "The time will come when this carpet will be old and faded, the paper dim from age, the books old and rusty like those in grandpa's library;- but our love, Herbert's and mine, will be fresh and pure as ever." My whole soul went forth in prayer for my husband and child; and, as Willie lay on the carpet with one hand under his head, his brown curls still moist on his white forehead, his bheek bright with health, I looked at the sturdy little fellow with all i  a mother's pride and love. Then did I consecrate him anew to God. "I ask for no'other blessing,' I said, " than that my child may be a man of God. Send whatever trials thou wilt, O Father in Heaven; take my   92 9     Glencoe Parsonage. life even, if need be, for the good of my child!" Very often we know nci for what we pray. Willie roused himself, said his evening prayer and went to bed. His last words were: "Wake me early, mother dear. I -have so much to do. I mean to rub down the pony myself, and see that  she has her oats. We will make short time going to the station." He slept, but as I was wakeful, - so wakeful and restless that I rose in the night, - and findingc that it was bright moonlight, I went into the garden. - The rose - trees were beginning to blos- som; a few moss buds were partlyj opened, and some white roses also. These last were my hus- band's favorite flowers. I had a fancy that flowers, gathered when the dew was upon them, would keep fresh a long time, and I made a boquet i of rose - buds and geranium leaves and placed them in a vase on the study stable. As I did so, the'moonlight fell on his last letter. The sight of it recalled all his love and tenderness (to me, - 1         O. '-    The Great Darkness.     93 his forbearance with my infirmities, his patience with my ignorance, his strength of body and mind which was freely used for me. I had never felt thankful enough for this, God's best gift to me. I prayed that I might be more worthy of it, and aid my husband in his ascent to heaven, and be no longer al weight uponthe eagle's wings. With that prayer in my heart I fell asleep toward morning, and did not wake till I heard Willie singing. We had a busy day, giving a few last touches to the study, and weeding the garden, that Her- bert might sec that I could take care of the place when he was away. We were to start for the station at four o'clock. The carriage was at the door, my bonnet and shawl were on, and we were only waiting for Aunt Betsey's return from a call upon a sick neighbor. I was impaticnt at her delay. The restlessness of the night was upon me, and I walked back and forth in the parlor, a little    ,Crtenfcoe rtarsonage. annoyed at Aunt Betsey's love of gossip.  I opened the door to look for her and saw, not Aunt Betsey, but Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln. I had no sooner caught a glimpse of their fiices than a horror of great darkness fell upon me. The facility with which a soul reads its fate in the glance of another's eye, is a wonderful mys- tery. We know  our doom before a word is spoken! "Tell me, quick," I said, as IArs. Lincoln took my hand. "Something terrible has hap- pened! Is he dead?" That word, though spoken by myself, came back with a terrible recoil. I was sick and faint. Mr. Lincoln aided me into the house, for I reeled and would have fallen but for such support. But I rallied quickly:  "Tell me all, tell me quick!" "He is not dead. No. Thank God, Bertha, not so bad as that, I trust. Take courage!) There has been a railroad accident, and a few   ,    .  'IV H,- /w y5 killed and a larger number wounded. Your hus- band is among the latter. The train was thrown off the track at Brown's Station. We have no particulars, but we know that your husband lives, for he has sent a message, requesting you and Willie to come to him at once." "ome quick, Willie, come!" and I did not wait for any one to assist me into the carriage. Mr. Lincoln and Willie were more thoughtful; they  waited to6 fetch dressing-gown and pillows. Willie sat by my side, and Mr. Lincoln took the  rieins. Oh, that ride! It was Mr. Lincoln's carriage, I found, instead of our own, and those fist, well- trained horses were put to their best speed, but that half hour seemed an age to mIe. Bruised, helpless, disfigured, my husband lay in a small room at the village tavern, but he was alive and conscious. It was thus far better than my fears. He could use his left hand a little, but the right was crushed and helpless. Willie *    96      Glencoe Parsonage.  .  stood by his father's side, trying to keep back the tears and do what he could, but it seemed as if my heart would break when I thought of the separation of these two. The doctor gave us no hope of Herbert's recov- ery, and advised us not to remove him; but my husband was so anxious to die among hv own people, and in his own home, that I determined to gratify his wish. Our family physician came over, and with his aid we accomplished it. We carried him into the study, where a bed had been prepared for him. I shall never forget the expression of his face as he looked around the room. He seemed to take in everything, and then turned to me with such a look of love as brought the tears which I, until then, had kept the power to restrain. "Bertha, Jear, this is a sweet place to die in. Bring the flowers nearer. They whisper to me of paradise!" ' He lived six days, in great agony, and died at l  e   The Great \Darkcn8ss.    97 last in what seemed an interval of almost entire freedom from pain. His head rested upon my bosom. He had just said to Willie,-  Be a good boy and take care of your mother," and to me, - "Bertha, we will meet in heaven; -never lose faith for our child. God's promise never fails!"He closed his eyes, and I thought he had fallen aSletpr but with a step so silent and a heart all love; he entered his Master's presence! The' anguish of that hour is so burned into my heart 'that I shall never recall it without intense suffering of body and mind. Mary Lincoln gently released my hold of the dead, and drew me into the next room, but not until I had felt the pressure of Willie's hand in mine. How I thanked God for that child, in that hour of darkness! Willie ,had always shrunk from death, and avoided a funeral; but when his father lay upon the sofa in the study, Wiilie remained upon a little stool at his side most of the time. He had no fear in that darkened room, 7 ?                A   'Y    w tencoe rarsonage. even at night, alone with the corpse. Death had put on his garments of beauty for him. - It is all over! The light of our home is put out. Willie often says: "Mamma, our good times are all gone." Aye! he must not say that any more. I must rouse myself and live. Live! Oh, how much easier to take my child and follow through the valley, before so dark, but now radiant with the dying smile of my beloved! August 10. I have been sick, confined to my room. Willie has proved a good nurse. I am better, and this morning dressed myself with the same care as in former days, and came down to breakfast. Willie looked pleased. " Will you take your father's place, Willie?" I asked. "Please, mamma, let us leave it just as if he werje here, and I will sit in my own place." I could not object, but I led the conversation to the garden, to the school and to subjects which I   the Great Darkness.     99 knew interested him. I found he was making his own plans about taking care of me. After breakfast, I went into the study and opened a certain box, containing papers. Her- bert had told me to do this as soon as possible after his death. I took pencil in hand and made some calculations, only, however, to find tht we were poor, and that we could not live without making some exertion.  One resolution I made, in that study:- I would educate my boy. Just then I heard him singing in. the garden. Hle little knows the burden of care which now weighs upon my heart. We must sell our home and leave Glencoe! I marked out my path and prayed for strength to walk in it. That evening we had a cheerful sup- per and talked about our loved one in heaven. Bedford, Oct. 30--I have had no heart to write in my journal. Our home is now the home of strangers. Glencoe, the parsonage, my mar- ried life, all are but a memory, -a memory so   100      Glencoe Parsonage. fragrant and so full of love that I am continually reproaching myself -that I murmur, for there is no life but into it some rain must fall. I can not write about the sale of the house. We did not talk much about it, but we wept together. After all, -it was dark and lonely, for the light of it was not there. I came here to place Willie at school, and have opened a girls' school myself, by which I hope to make our little income, supply all our wants. Willie studies well and keeps a. good standing in his class, but he likes too well to go to the depot and the machine - shop. He knows every wheel and screw and joint in a locomotive, and can manage it as well as an engineer. His last composition was upon the Steam Engine, and he says it is more minute and more easily under- stood than Olmstead's in thePhilosophy. I laugh at him for his vanity, but in truth he makes the matter clearer to me than the sdhool - book does. The conductor and tie engineer are his particular /             -   The Great Darkness.     101, friends, and he has learned all their "technicali- ties" as he calls them; but they sound to me* very much like slang phrases. The pages of his Latin grammar are covered with pictures of Steam Engines, and cars and names of noted business men. His sleeping room is ornamented with Steamships, Insurance Calendars, and cards of the principal firms in the cities. Hs indifference to religious instruction gives me great pain. Noveniber 10. Willie has acquired a fondness for dress such as he has never manifested before. He says he wants to dress as well as the other boys. He threw down his cap to - day angrily. "There! I am  not going to wear that any more. The 'boys asked me, to-day, if it came out of the ark. They are all buying the 'D'Or- says,' at Munford's." At this time, our income hardly meets our expenses, but I went to Munford's and paid the two dollars which I really needed for our daily bread. I said to Willie: A         102     Glencoe Parsonage.  ' "You must not expect, my child, to dress like the rich men's sons who are in your school:" "Well, mother, I do not want to go with rich men's sons. I want to go into the machine- shop  and earn my own living. I can support you, mother; then you will not be obliged to wear old bonnets and turned silks."  "O Willie! I want you to go to college and be a scholar, like your father. I am willing to wear old bonnets and shawls if we can accom- plish this." "I 'd rather you wouldn't, mother; I want to work my own way in the world." I was troubled and perplexed, but I thought my duty was clear to keep him in school. He had a faithful teacher, who kept him well up to the task of fittting for college. He left school with a good standing as to scholarship, with many warm friends among the boys, and with the  best wishes of his teachers. One of the latter took occasion to say to me: "There are fine   Th]e Great lDarkess. '    103 qualities in your boy, but he is a high 'mettl&l steed,- needs curb and bit, though too much of it will spoil him." I did not sleep that night,; I felt very weak and helpless, but remembering the words of my hus- band, -- Have faith for our child," -I took courage.. I have been here three years, now, and have, paid my way without infringing upon our little capital. Willie has chosen Yale col- lege, because it was his father's alma mater. I received a letter to- day from Glencoe, from 'Mr. Lincoln and other gentlemen, inviting me to come there and open a school for girls. They offer me such inducements as will make it much easier for me to pay Willie's college bills. It seems a special providence, and yet we walk so much in shadows here, that' we mistake, some- times. It will be so delightful to be with old friends again, -to live near Mary Lincoln, and feel the influence of their sympathy and love. Dec. -I have taken a small house, near Mrs.   104    ,  Glencoe Parsonage. Lincoln,; one room  is devoted to scholars, one little chamber is fitted up for Willie when he is here in his vacations, and another room is a cosy place, which I call mine, exclusively. The win- dos of .this room  open into a little garden, through which there is a path to Mr. Lincoln's grounds.  It is delightful to be with those dear friends again. Little Katie is one of my pupils, and calls my house her new home. She is a beautiful child. She comes in early every morning with a bouquet. Now, as'there are no flowers in the garden, she brings geranium and heliotrope. Willie helped me get to house-keeping, and the old friendship between the children 'is revived. Katie is nine years old.  She wrote a letter to Willie to - day, and I preserved a copy: "DEAR WILLIE: I love you very much, and I think you are the nicest looking boy in Glencoe. I want you to be good. You are not good all of the time. I -saw the tears in your mother's eyes the other day when you said, - It is n't a bit of harm to play w                   ,      .   The Great. Darkness.       105 a game of cards; I am not going to be a "sp oney."' I do ndt know what it is to-be a ' spooney;' but I know it is naughty to say anything which will make your mother unhiappy.  "There is not much news in Glencoe. Brother Charlie is going to Germany for his health. He is delighted, as he can see sister Mary often. "He hopes to be so much bettei- for the voyage that he can study a year at Heidelberg. "I am studying hard, now. I like my music teacher very much, and I spend four hours every day at the piano,-- one before breakfast, one before dinneri and two before supper. I ride an hour every day, and take a long walk, and study some. So you see the day passes away very fast. I suppose you, also, are hard at work witlh your books. When vacation comes, we will play all the time. Your little cousin, KATIE." ---  It is Willie's first vacation from college. He is changed. He does not seem like my boy, or like his father's child. He complains of his small allowance of pocket money, pronounces Glencoe folks decidedly "slow," and for the first time in his life, receives letters which he conceals. froni me.  Some days he is the same warm, affection- ate boy as ever, and at other times there is a re- serve and coldness which yound me keenly.   106      Glen'coe Parsonzage. Poor little Katie is puzzled. She watches him with her soft, dove - like eyes when he comes in with his prompt, decided step, and ventures, as of old, to brush his curls with her little hands, or put a flower in his button -hole; but sometimes his brusque way seems to repel her, and she re- mains very quiet. This morning, as he sat reading, she ventured to his side and peeped over his shoulder. He drew her nearer to him.   "Listen, Katie," he said,'and read these lines: "Her brow was overhung with coins of gold, That sparkled o'er the auburn' of her hair, - 'Her clustering hair, whose longer locks were rolled In braids behind; and though her stature were  E'en of the highest for a femnale mold, They nearly reached her heels; and in her air There was a something which bespoke command, As one who was a lady in the land." "Read more, Willie, please.   I like to hear you read," said Katie; "but I will sit further away from you, for I do not like the smell of ci-   Thle Great Darkcness.    107 gar - smoke. Must you smoke, Willie, if you go to college?" When alone with Willie, a short tiine after- wards, I said: "I was sorry to hear you reading Byron to Katie, Willie." I was sorry myself, mother, after I com- menced, and did not read much. A young lady is better without his poetry, I think." "And how about young gentlemen?" "Oh, it will not harm them at all. Why, mother, I can repeat nearly the whole of Childe Harold, arid for'that matter, half that the poet has written. -He is the greatest poet of his age." "I hope time may modify that opinion. But how about smoking?  Do you remember how much your father disliked the habit?" "Why, mother, I smoked almost in self-de- fense. All the fellows smoke. I should be smoked to death in our room, if I were to pro- claim myself anti'- tobacco." ,v              108  .    Glencoe Parsonage. "But, Willie, t is unhealthy and expensive." "There it. is, mother, always the expensive. I tell you, it is hard for a college student to be poor. There is Stuart, who had a sophomore oration the other day. The poor fellow actually had to borrow a coat to speak in. He acts as sexton to the church, and it is of course his busi- ness to make the fires and, light the house; he does it to help pay his college bills. Well, when he was doing his work, the others were studying their orations, looking the over for the last time. He could not do that, as his name was first on the list. The consequence was that he broke down, - made a dead failure of it, though he stands first in his class." "Second, you mean, Willie?" "So they say, mother; but he deserves to be first, for he is a harder student than myself." "He is the son of that good old minister, Father Stuart of Montrose, who used to visit us in your father's day."    The Great Darkness.     109 "I presume so, mother. Poverty is the herit- age of ministers' sons."  "Your father was rich in goodness and intel- lect. I ask no better heritage for his son." "But I am tired of poverty, mother. I shall strike out a new path soon." "My boy! my boy! strive for something bet- ter than riches." "Do n't worry yourself about me, mother. I went to college because you wished it; but I would gladly be, in some business that would sup- port you well." "Do not worry, mother." How many boys say that to anxious mothers to whom it brings only increased anxiety, because they see that these boys are trusting in their own strength, and have no idea of the power of those temptations that will assail them. Jan. 5. - I paid all my bills yesterday, and now hake twenty dollars left. Mr. Brown owes me five, which he will pay this evening. This   "O      Glencoe Parsonage. amount will buy me a riew black dress.    My mourning is very shabby, and I must renew it. I shall look quite nice when Willie comes home again. Jan. 6.--I started for the store this morning to buy my dress, taking the Post Office in my way, for it is the day to hear from  Willie. I found the following: "DEAR MOTHER : Can you send me twenty dollars? I have incurred a debt which I am anxious to pay. I am sorry to trouble you for it, and I promise to make it up by extra economy. I will give up smoking at once if you can send me that amount. I will write a longer letter the next time, but am in haste to-day. Your affectionate son, WILLIE." I closed the letter, went directly home and sent him the money.   Then I sat down, ripped  my old black dress, and turned it for the second time. My heart was cheered this evening by a letter which Mr. Lincoln received from a friend inr New Haven.  He says:   The Great Darkness.     1" "Willie Lee has the highest honors of the Junior Class, and bids fair to be the valedicto- rian when he graduates." Katie was radiant with joy. "I always knew he would be first. Only think, mother, first in a class of sixty!" I rejoiced with trembling, but, like an unwise mother that I was, I kept writing him letter after letter, entreating him to watch himself, to avoid bad habits, telling him how much anxiety I suf- fered on his account, --making my letters dreary sermons, when they should have been bright, cheerful, newsy letters from home.   CHAPTER VI. PROSTRATE HOPES.         s n, RA1K Holden has returned to Glencoe.' He succeeded in running away from home the second time, and was absent three years. At last, one cold December day, when the snow lay deep in ;our little valley and on our hills, he came home, as he thought, to die. He was so emaciated that his own father did not know him, and IMts. Hol- den, his step-mother, took him in and fed and warmed him, before she knew it was her husband's child. Poor Frank will never be well. His health and   Prostrate Hopes.      113 ambition are gone, and he submitted without murmuring to go to work in his uncle's shoe-shop. He likes to read as well as ever, and is studying the college studies, using Charlie Lincoln's books. He calls in to see me often, and we talk about the dear old days when we lived at Hillside. His complexion is sallow, and he stoops a little. I asked his father, one day, if it wouldnot be bet- ter for him to work on the farm. "No," he said, the boy was not fit for that; in - door work would suit him best. Mr. Holden has never studied physiology, and he would call / it very absurd in me if I should tell him that he was shortening his child's life by keeping him in a shoe - shop. Mrs. Thayer's children seem to have won suc- cess in life. Henry has completed his law studies, and formed a partnership with a lawyer of good reputation. Glencoe is proud of young Thayer,- "a rising young man," Esquire Cobb often says. Olive Thayer has won the heart of, Charlie k    '   "4     Glencoe Parsonage. Lincoln. She is a graceful, slender, pretty girl, held up by most mothers as a model of propriety. I dan not tell why, but I do not love her. She seems to me to be lacking in heart, The union of Charlie and Olive is thought a very suitable one, here, and all the course 'of their love seems to run smoothly.  Mr. Spencer, the minister, lives in the parson- age. I do not go there much, for the grief at part- ing from it is not so dulled that I can see the house without pain. I am glad that the minister and his wife love flowers, and that the white rose has been carefully tended. .It climbs to the roof- tree, now, and often flings its pure petals into the study window.  The orchard thrives, and Mr. Spencer often sends me apples from the scions which my hus- band grafted into the sturdy old trees. Some- times the minister comes in his modest carriage, and asks me to ride,--always at such times urg- ing me to stop at Hillside. I know they think I   '       Prostrate Hopes.        115 am wrong to refuse; perhaps they are right; but the desolation of a widow's heart, who can tell? If Willie should ever preach the gospel, then I will go with him to the parsonage.  I will go over the dear old home and tell him   where his father prayed and studied, and how he planned the house for a minister's house.  Wait awhile, Mr. Spen- cer; a time may come when I shall go to the par-' sonage.  I find that my hopes are as strong   as my fears'.        i     . Mary Lincoln came in, yesterday, with a letter which she had received from Charlie.   He writes: "I am now in Geneva, as you will perceive, and mean to begin my theological studies here, as my facilities for study- ing Hebrew will be better here tlan at home. This place seems sacred to theological studies. But I want to be near you in the last year of my preparation for the ministry; you shall be my head pr .fessor; for you have led me to my life - work, and your teaching alnd example have done more for me than all the learning of the schools. I find no place like home,-no friend to whom I can tell my joy and sorrow like my mother. "I am glad to hear you speak so kindly of Olivc. Her pic- ture hangs beside yours, and I mingle the names in my prayer. God bless you and keep you both in the sunlight of his love."   "6       Glencoe Parsonage. -That very day   I received the  following from my son: "DEAR MOTHER: 1 am tired of poverty. If poverty is, as you say, the herit- age of ministers' sons, I wish my father had chosen some other vocation.. My college bills this year are greater than ever before. I see no way to lessen them. "I have not the self- denial of Stuart, who buttons his over- coat above his ragged vest and goes to recitation. He has not a decent coat to wear, save this same old overcoat, but he is a splendid scholar, and stands (behold my vanity 1) second best to, your correspondent. I need fifty dollars very much. If you can send that sum to me, please do so; if not, let me know at once, and I will see what can be done."   I had not five dollars to send, but I sat down to think how I might obtain the     money,  My watch is a very valuable one.   It was a wedding present from  my uncle.  I will go to Salem  and dispose of it. Feb. 6.--   sold the watch and chain for one hundred and twenty - five dollars.   I sent Willie fifty, and have deposited the remainder in the Savings Bank. I heard  some village  gossip to-day   which   Prostrate Hopes.      117 wounds me keenly. When Willie was here, he passed many evenings away from home.    It troubled me a little, for I feared I was selfish. I wanted my boy near me as much as possible. Just before his return to college, these absences were explained. There live, in the outskirts of the town, a fam- ily by the name of Homer. The father owns a mill, and is an active business man, but is con- sidered more shrewd than honest,-in fact, a bad, unprincipled person. He lhas no respect for the Sabbath, makes sport of the Bible, and draws round him the young men of the village, who are amused by his wit and his sport of all that a Christian holds sacred. He has a daughter, considered by many persons a beauty. The beauty is in her red cheeks, sparkling black eyes, and a profusion of glossy curls; but she has a loud voice, bold manners, and no education save a little knowledge of' dancing and music. It is at Mr. Homer's house that my   "8      Glencoe Parsonage. Willie has been spending his evenings. It was Bessie Homer's society that made his vacation agreeeble ;-such is the person who was winning my boy's heart from me. Mrs. Lincoln was much annoyed at this friend- ship, and I begged her to remonstrate with Wil- lie. "No, Bertha, silence is best," she replied. "My only comfort is, that a young man's first love is seldom his wife." I was less discreet 'than my friend, and, one evening when I had been sitting alone, Willie came in late. I felt a bitterness of spirit at being deprived of my boy's society, and I spoke,-hasty words they were,-of the bad reputation of Ho- mer, and of the rude manners and ignorance of Bessie. Willie's eyes flashed, the color mounted to his cheeks, and I could see that he put a strong restraint upon himself not to answer me angrily. When I finished, he rose.   Prostrate Hopes.      119 *  "Good-night, mother; I have a great admiration for Bessie, and I do not think even my mother could lessen that feeling; but marriage, alas! it will be years before I can win a competency for ai wife; but I am sure I shall never see anybody that I shall admire as much as Bessie Homer." I said no more, and have never mentioned Bessie's name since. Thus is broken that sweet ro- mance which I had woven in silence for many years. Dear little Katie! You are the light of my home.' How can I take Bessie Homer in your place?- Gossip now says that Willie and Bessie correspond regularly, but he has i never informed me of this. "Therefore my soul lay out of sight, Untuned, unstrung." It is four months since I have written in my journal! Let me go back and review them. It may do me good. Willie was at home a week or two. I was packing the last things in his valise on   120     Glencoe Parsonage. the day when he left. I had just finished; when  he appeared. He came in, in his quick, prompt way, and said: "Well, mother, I must go; only ten minutes now before the train starts!" I drew him towards me and knelt down. The habit of his childhood led him to do the same, and thus I prayed from the depths of my heart: " God, bless my child! Keep him from yield- ing to temptation; guard him from danger; give him grace to live worthily or to meet death fear- lessly.". We rose, and with a kiss and a pressure of the hand, we parted,-only for a few months, I said to myself; then I shall see him' for a short time before he goes back to take, as we hope, the high- est honors of his class. I watched my boy as he walked dowp the street, side by side with Mr. Lincoln. I could not help an emotion of mingled pride and pleas-   Prostrate Hopes.      121 ure as I saw how tall and manly he looked. He is taller than Mr. Lincoln, and has a lithe, elas- tic step, as if mere walking was a pleasure, as it is, for he is very healthy. Katie came to the window and laid her little hand in mine. "He looks finely, Auntie! I think he is the handsomest young man in Glencoe!" After Willie's return, he wrote regularly, as usual, but then came an interval of silence. I solaced myself with the thought that he was studying hard, and had less time to write letters. The Glencoe people were all congratulating me on Willie's standing in college; they considered it an honor to Glencoe that lie should obtain the valedictory. Mr. Kendall, the blacksmith, said he should buy a suit of new clothes and go down to see his boy graduate. 'He had promised to give him a horse if he obtained the honors ofhis class. Our minister was to accompany the Lincoln fam- ily and myself. I was saving every dollar to buy   122     Glencoe Parsonage. a suitable dress, that Willie might hot be ashamed of his mother. Not one of my friends suspected my deep poverty at that time. Frank Holden little knew how acceptable was the pres- ent of a pair of gaiters, which he gave me at that time. They were made by himself, and he wanted, he said, to show his gratitude for the use of our books. Three weeks and no letter! Such a long hia- tus in our correspondence had never happened during Willie's life. I had written repeatedly, but no reply. One cold, stormy day I went to the Post Office, myself. I could trust no other person. The oblig- ing clerk made a thorough search. He thought the letters must be detained in some office, for he had known Wilie's punctuality. I knew there was a midnight mail, and It rose early and went to the office before breakfast. There was a letter, but in a. strange hand! I clutched it nervously and turned homeward; but, with all my impa-   Prostrate Hopes.        123 tience, I did not open it till I had gained nmy own house and my own room. Then I deliberately  locked the door, and held the letter with a trembling hand while I examined the superscription critically. As I have said, once before in this sketch, we read our fate in the glance of an eye, almost in the tread of a messenger who brings evil tidings. Once before in my life, I read the story of my great sorrow  in Mrs. Lincoln's face, before a spoken word had fallen upon my ear; so, now, in that unopened letter I read a greater grief. With my shawl over my shoulders; my bonnet strings loosened, I read what follows: 4 DEAR MADAM: -I regret deeply to be the bearer of sad tidings to yoy, but I must fulfill my friend Lee's request. I enclose his letter, that you may learn the story from himself; but I must add that his offense was not so great asi he supposed, nor do I think lie would have suffered the disgrace whic he feared. He was a general favorite with faculty and stuCdents, and stood so well in his class, that I can not but think his offense would have been pardoned. If we could only get him back now, I believe he would be pardoned and reinstated. I am sure all his class i:   124       Glencoe Parsonage. would petition for it. Yours, with great respect, JOHN STUART." Then came the following: "DEAR STUART: I must be off. That rascally tutor, upon whom I wrote the epigram for his stupid blunders in the Greek class, (wish it had been his epitaph) has found out that I have violated the rules of college, and has informed. The President called me to his room, yesterday, for a private interview. He held out no prospect of pardon, though he said he should see me again be- fore the meeting of the Faculty. "The President knew my father, and I tell you, old cove, I never had harder work to keep from blubbering like a little school-boy, than when he spoke of my father. If he had added the w-ord mother, too, I verily believe I should have been on my knees before him. As it was, I swallowed a great lump in my throat, and bore a bold front to the enemy. "You will believe me, whatever others think, when I say that I am no gambler, nor do I care for play; but my debts were accumulating, and I was ashamed to ask my poor mother ,for any more money. "I held a good hand at cards, and thought I would try my luck. "I was successful in winning enough to pay the debts, but my success was the cause of my being found out. I' wish I had your moral courage, and were not ashamed of poverty; but my friends were rich men's sons, and I wanted to keep up with them, if possible. There is one consolation;-my fall will be your elevation. You are more worthy of the valedic- tory than 'that reckless Lee,' as Tutor Jones calls me.                      Prostrate Hopes.         125 " leave you the best part of my wardrobe, for I shall not iwed nice clothes where I am going. Use them, if you love me. The rest of my effects I have sold to pay my debts, and I now owe-no man. "I will not stay to hear my sentence of expulsion. I care less for college honors than for the grief of my mother. The word unmans me, and I have to shut down the gatesMof thought whenever I think of home. I can not write to her, do it for me, Stuart, and go and see her if you can. It may soften the blow. I do wonder that her son should be sucll a graceless scamp, for I know I have been a burden to her ever since my father died. "I can not go to Glencoc. "I am bound on a voyage to China, and you will not re- ceive tlis letter till my home is on the boundless sea. Good- bye, old fellow; I love you well, with all your old clothes and puritanic ways.                WILL."   * Mr. Stuart added this postcript to the letter: "I assure you, Madam, that our class all sympathize with you, and regret this affair exceedingly. Some of the students have gone to New York, hoping to find him. If you should hear from him, please inform me at once. Yours respectfully, JOHN STUART." I remember the clock struck seven    when I en-  tered the house with this letter in my hand, and I      / that I read it through in spite   of the grief that filled my heart.  The  next event that I recall I,   126     Glencoe Parsonage. was the clock striking nine, and I lay upon the floor in my room. I had fainted and fallen. The agony of that "coming to "as it is called, was terrible beyond expression. Therelay upon my heart a terrible weight, and my head seemed bound with a band of iron. All my hopes are disappointed My highest ambition is crushed! The peaceful death of my husband seemed now a lesser sorrow. I thought that if Willie was a Christian, I could have borne his death better than this. It was more than I could bear, and I prayed for death,-death, then, that I might hot look on the faces of the living any more. But as we sometimes pluck safety from great danger, so sometimes, in the very extremity of our grief, we find consolation where we thought that Gilead had no balm and no physician, for our sick souls. I rose with effort, bathed my head in cold wa-    Prostrate Iopes.     127 ter and lay down upon the bed; then this thought occurred to me: "Have you faith in God, yet? Can you trust his promises?"  There was a struggle. On one side, an abyss so dark that no finite mind could fathom it,- darkness, coldness, death, despair; on the other, the sheltering arms of paternal love, that infinite kindness, which, seeing the end from the begin- ning, afflicts not willingly, but chasteneth whom He loveth. I thought of Him whose agony in the deep shadow of the Olive trees in Gethsemane none but God and angels knew, and that cry,- "My God! my God! why hast thou forsaken me!" resounding through the ages. It hushed my murmuring. Then Isaw my cross and stooped to bear it. How heavy it seemed. If only Her- bert were here to help me Jear it! But no, I must bear it alone. No, not so, God is with me, and with my child on the waste of waters as well as in his quiet home.   128      Glencoe Parsonage. I did not reproach my boy. My heart warmed to him, with all his faults. If I could only see himr,-only clasp him in my arms, I would for- give him ;-yes, I wold tell him that self- denial and sacrifice for his sake was only a pleasure. If I could only have him with me again, I would be more gentle and loving than ever before. I had failed in some way. It was all my fault that he had gone astray. A Other letters came that day,-one from the president of the college to Mr. Lincoln. Mary came over to see me, and I never saw her so moved before. I knew she loved my child, but I was not aware how closely he had twined him- self about her heart. There was something in his bold, frank way that had won upon her strangely. .She blamed herself, and said,- "O Bertha! why -lidn't you tell me that he needed more money? It was only yesterday that my husband was saying,- 'Willie's expenses must be more thani usual. I   Prostrate Hopes.      129 will send him a hundred dollars to-morrow.' Why couldn't you have trusted your friends, Bertha?" She said this as she was helping me, taking off my best dress,--my twice- turned silk. I saw her look at it, as she hung it in the wardrobe, and when she came back her tears were falling. She gathered me in her arlls, and her embrace warmed-me, for I was shivering with cold. I am small and thin and pale, and she is fair and plump and comely. She laid me back upon the pillow, and threw over me the cashmere shawl which she wore. "There, darling, lie still; you mustn't get up to - day; I will nurse you." "No, Mary, no; I can not lie stilltill Isee your husband. He has so many friends in New York, will he write for me? Perhaps something can be done." "Will he write? Do you think my husband would stop to write at such a time? Why, Bertha, he   130     Glencoe Parsonage. left for New York in the-next train after receiv- ing the letter!" Aye! God was helping me to bear the burden. "Mary," I whispered, "let me comfort you. This is all right. God permitted this trial be- cause he knows I needed it. It is in love; I will not murmur." Mary replied only with her tears and a caress. We waited in great anxiety for Mr. Lincoln's return. Mary almost expected to see Willie with' him, I had no such hope. But to my great joy, he found a trace of him. He had gone as a comr mon sailor in the ship Flying Cloud, bound for Canton, Captain Simonds, Master. Mr. Lincoln found his name recorded as one of the crew; they would be gone a year. A whole year! 1 dared not look forward; I could not bear that long, dreary prospective. It was during the first week after Willie sailed that a storm occurred. The wind shook the house and whistled drearily in the branches of   Prostrate Hopes.      131 the leafless trees before the house. I was alone, and had gone to my own room at my usual hour of retiring, when I heard a slight kilocking at the outer door. There stood my little Katie, wrap- ped in her red riding-hood, her round f:ce peep- ing out of the hood, and her curls flying wildly about. "I could not go to sleep, Auntic, thinking you might be lonely in this storm. May I come and stay with you?" I drew her into me, and after we went up stairs, she read, in her clear, sweet voice, the psalm,- "The Lord is my Shepherd."  I fell asleep, as usual, with a prayer for my boy on my lips. I waked, as I think I did, in about an hour; at least I seemed to be awake. The wind was blow- ing fearfully, and I saw, in my mind's eye, a stormy sea and a vessel tossed to and fro. There were busy sailors on board, and among them the face of my own boy. He wore a fearless look, full of courage and energy; suddenly a sailor   132      Glencoe Parsonage. was washed overboard, and I saw Willie's face turn pale for an instant, and then he grasped something and threw overboard to the drowning man; but the waves were high, and the - man was in a trough of the sea. The ship neared him for a moment, but was tossed 'violently away, and he was not rescued. I suppose this was a picture of my excited im- agination; but Willie's face was before me so viv- idly that I was comforted, and fell asleep with that look of courage before me. All the next day I felt that 1 had seen Willie. I found kind friends, but the hardest trial of daily lifeqwas the expressed pity of such friends as Mrs. Thayer and Mr. Holden. I am so sorry," said Mrs. Thayer. "Just as our hopes were about to be realized, that they should meet with this disappointment! No boy was more beloved than Willie, but college is a terrible place for boys. Willie is only onei of  many that fail. I am sure Henry would have   ' I     - -  *   Prostrate Hopes.      133 done worse if we hadn't told him that, if he was expelled from college, le should never come home to us. He is making fine headway in his profession, and cleared five thousand dollars last year. He will .marry soon, for le hoards Ilis gains with great care. Yes, I am sorry for Will. He's a fine fellow, but he is too generous and open- hearted to make his way in the world. -A man must not carry his heart outside his coat now - - days; indeed, the less heart a man has, the more successful lie will be. Do come over, Mrs. Lee, often; do not stay ,here alone. We shall be glad to sec you at any time. It is not'your fault if Willie has had to leave college." My heart writhed under this torture. It was worse than Mr. IIolden, for this was all bitter- ness; but the comfort of the latter had a dash of the ridiculous in it. "All these afflictions arc sent for sour good, Mrs. Lee. You have been too lax in your manage- ment of the boy, and we see the result. The   134     Glencoe Parsonage. dangers and hardships of his present life are great, but if his life is spared he may come out right, after all. But the sea is terribly destructive; there's danger on the deep. I hope you will be persuaded now to settle yourself;--you know what I'mean ;-M-r. Post has a good house and some money in bank ;-Mellissy Ann needs a mother,. and you would do well to improve the opening." "Miserable comforters are ye all," said my heart in its bitterness. Frank Holden and Katie were my comforting angels, myn messengers of love, sent by God for my relief. Frank was a musician, and had taught himself to play a little upon the piano. Katie volunteered to give him lessons.  It amuses me to see the contrast between them. Frank, quiet, pale, reserved, with stooping shoulders and coarse, ill-fitting clothes; Katie, like a little fairy in all her movements, never quiet long at a time, and always dressed in bright colors. She is an unselfish little birdie, always \    '  '   Prostrate Hopes.     135 flitting about with a kind word, a kiss or a gift for some one. Frank watches her movements with a wondering admiration that amuses me. It is good for him to be with her, for the monotony of his life, in that dreary shoe- shop, and his hard study are wearing upon his health and spirits.   CHAPTER VII. LIGHTS AND SHADOWS. I HAD  no heart in those days to take my daily walk and seldom went out of the house, except. to church. But one cold day in winter, I was under the necessity of going to Farmer Steele's to settle for my winter's wood and to order another load. As I took my way over the newly fallen snow, I was chilled in body and heart. My road led me past the old parsonage, into the village street, by the blacksmith's shop, Mr. Kendal's large, white house, Irish Sally's' little home and over the bridge, -among all the scenes -of my early married life. Memory was wide awake, and I -4   Lights and Shadows.     137 could not help exclaiming, "Oh, that it were with me as in days past!" The fire was bright in the blacksmith's shop, and two or three horses were standing at the door waiting to be shod. Mr. Kendall is a gray- haired man, but hale and hearty still. .He stood in the door - way with his leather apron on. "Good morning, Mrs. Lee," he said, cheer- ily. "I saw you coming and waited, hoping to get a chance to speak to you. Will you walk in? We have one clean spot," and he pointed to a ' chair near which a clean sheep - skin mat had been laid.  "I have wanted to see you, ma'am; but I dared not venture to call, because, you sce, "ma'am, when one has trouble, an ignorant man, like myself, do n't know how to choose the best words, and even ministers sometimes make a dread- ful muss of it, when they try to comfort others. Sorrow is like one of our burns,.- best healed by covering it close and not meddling with it.   138     Glencoe Parsonage. "Then, again, I thought, may be you blamed me for giving a sort of turn to the boy's notions. I never shall forget the tears in your eyes when the boy used some of the rough words he heard *In the shop. But if I ever see him again, shall tell him how differently I see things now from what I once did. I am not the same man I was before your husband's death. The seed he sowed lay in my heart till then, but at that time it began to spring up. There is no swearing in my shop, now -a days. But what I was going to say, ma'am, was this ;-that my brother- in - law is captain of the Flying Cloud.  "Perhaps you do n't know, for it was before you came to Glencoe, that my sister Polly married a sailor, -Jack Simonds. Well, he has got to be master Of a brig now, and a jolly old alt he is, It would do you good to hear him laugh; he is as big as two of me, and shakes the whole house when he walks across the room. "I remember, now, as if it were only yester-   Lights and Shadows.     139 day, that Willie was passing the shop on his way to school, with his school books under his arm, when the captain sat here, right by the door, sec- ing me shoe a horse. I called out, 'Holloo! my boy, stop a minute; here is a man that can teach you more about navigation in one hour than you  can learn of Master Moody in a year.' He stopped, and the captain took a wonderful fancy to the boy. They had many a chat together, and Jack spun some of his longest yarns to please Willie. "Well, when Mr. Lincoln .came from New York the other day, and said that Willie had sailed in the Flying Cloud, Simonds, Master, why, you see, I felt that there was a little com- fort in his being with Jack. Jack makes his boys toe the mark, but he is not a brutal fellow, like some of them sea - captains that we ,'ead about in the papers; if a .boy does his duty, he will speak a kind word to him; and Willie is n't the fellow to shirk work, there is no lazy blood in   "O     Glencoe Parsonage. him. He'll do his duty, whatever comes, and I should not be surprised if he was captain himself some day.. 'I know it is hard for you to lose him so, just as he had his hand on the honors; why, tough old fellow as I am, I cried, like a baby when I heard of it, and not a wink of sleep could I get the whbe night. But the more I think of it, the more I believe it is what you professors call a merciful dispensation of Providence. You see, the boy was too full of spirits, like that mare of mine (Zaidee, Willie named her,) that every- body admires so much; I could sell her for six hundred to - day, but I was afraid she would -be fit for nothing. It is amazin' what pluck and temper she had, but she has-come out right at last, and so will your boy. "There is good blood in him, and a mighty strong will, and lie ha'n't no 'chronic,' as the doctors say, to kill him off quick. Then, just think,- Jack has lived through twenty years of   Lights and Shadows.     141 sea - life ; why should n't Willie live through one? ",Then, again, he will think more of his mother in his watches on deck, when lie has nothing but water below and stars above, than he ever did afore in his life. You see I have been thinking it all over, and wanted just to spcak my mind to you. "There are brighter days in store for you, Mrs. "ee, and you, must excuse me if I have made you feel bad by talking about the boy (he saw the tears which I could not keep back). I love him as much as if he were my own. "I remember how often his little curly head used to 'fall asleep on my shoulder, and lie learned to' say,' Uncle Kinny,' almost as soon as, 'Papa' and 'Mamma.' -  I made his first hammer, and taught him to ride. When' he grew up and became a handsome fellow in Yale college, he was never ashamed  of the old blacksmith and his shop. lie always came to' see me, first, after his mother. The   "2     Glencoe Patrsonage. very last time he was here, he put his head into the door as he, was hurrying to the depot, and said, -'Good - bye, Uncle Kinney; I shall look for you when I speak my piece.' "Do n't worry, Mrs. Lee; it will all come out right. I am learning, in my old age, that. we poor critters do n't know how to govern the world. Perhaps we had better trust Him who made it. There! if there is n't Jim with my new cutter. Just jump in and see how beauti- fully Zaidee will takeyou home. She is the gen- tlest and the spiritedest horse in this town." I parted from Mr. Hendall with more comfort in my heart than I had felt since the letter which crushed me to the earth. There was now a link between me and Willie. The ,ride home was exhilarating, and, once there, again I fell on my knees and thanked God for the kind words of Mr. Kendall.  "Auntie, there lis a gentleman in the parlor that wants to see you,' said little Katie to me, as she r   Lights and Shadows.     143 came into thekitchen soon after breakfast, one morning. "He is a gentleman, I think, and yet he is odd looking; his arms are long and his coat sleeves short, and he thanked me when I said, Walk in?' and he thanked me when I said, 'Take a seat,' and he thanked me when I said I would call you. lie is an antedeluvian, I guess." When I entered the room, a tall, loose - jointed, awkward young man rose and handed me his card, - John Stuart." I gave him a cordial welcome. He had come to Glencoe to see me and to bring a small pack- age. I was so eager for news from my child that I tore open the envelope at once; a check dropped upon the floor, and I made out to read, T;Aough my eyes were blurred with tears, the few words below: "DEAR NMOTHER: The enclosed is my advance pay. Think of me as efrning for you with good, hard, honest labor. Your affectionate son, WIILIE." *   "4     Glencoe Parsonage. Stuart picked up the check and handed it to me. I could not touch it. "No, Mr. Stuart, it is the price of my boy's life." He stood there silent and apparently helpless, but there was a wistful look in his face, so full of pity that I was moved, but I could not speak, and, faint and sick at heart, I sat down in the nearest chair. "Let us pray," he said, in a low tone. I bowed my head upon the table, and there fell upon my ear one of the most earnest, pleading prayers ever breathed by mortal lips. It was for me and my child, and it was evident that lie who prayed loved myr boy well. I grew calm, and there stole into my heart a peace which I had not known for many weeks; a faith, for one moment, almost like that of my husband for our child. Stuart remained a few days, and-won the inter- est of all our friends but Katie. She thought him "too tall," "too stiff," too goodish" and 4'  "No, Mr, Stuart, it is thieoprice of my lxoy', lit'c."--Pagc 144.     Lqghts and Shadows.     145 "too prim," and only think," she said, "of his declaiming, the valedictory in place of our Wil- lie." I reproved her, saying,-"Why, Katie, he deserves it more than Willie." I am not sure of that," she said, and pursed up her little red lips as if she had made up her mind about Stuart, and did not mean to change. Time passed. I settled down to the usual rou- tine of my school duties. It was well for me that God had put this work into my hands. The long, dreary nights were hard to bear, when the wind whistled without, and I thought of storms at sea, then memory carried me back to the quiet days in the dear home, when the same roof cov- ered husband and child, and I was so happy with my household treasures in sight. I was sure that my destiny now would be, to tread life's pathway alone, and lie down at my husband's side in the churchyard, while our child's grave would be in the deep ocean. l   "6      Glencoe Parsonage. Mr. Lincoln's family were looking forward to the return of Charles) at the close of the 'year, with Mary and her husband. Katie was to accom- pany her father to New York to meet them when the steamer arrived. This would be her first visit to the city, and she was full of delightful anticipations. - lMr. Lincoln's children have come! What a busy time we have had! I was with my friend the day before the arrival. The kitchen was red- olent of spices and fruits, and the whole house wore the air of happy expectation. Charlie's room was made as pleasant as a mother's love could make it. It had been newly painted and papered, and all his boyish treasures were replaced,-l his gun, fishing rod, paint- boxes, the old; well- worn books, everything which, as a joy, he had loved, still remained. The mother's own hands had ironed the white muslin curtains and the white linen pillow cases, as their white- ness and luster testified.   Lights and Shadows.     147 While Mary was busying herself with these last touches in the room, I sat down by the win- dow, lwhich commanded a view of the village and the hill on which stood -the minister's house, the latter like a little nest- embowered in green. Mary came and laid her hand on my shoulder. "Bertha, some day, in the bright future we shall be making such preparations for our other wan- derer. Yes, Bertha, who knows but he will yet be Charlie's groomsman when he completes his two years of study? See! yonder is Olive Thayer. She has a fine figure and walks grace- fully, her taste in dress, too, is good. That blue velvet hat and white plume are exceedingly becoming.  "Yes," continued  Mary, "'how delighted Charlie will be to see how much she has improved. She .ill spend a part of the day with us to-morrow." "I understand," I said, "that she was much admired in Washington last winter, when she spent some time with her uncle, the senator.   "8    Glencoe Parsonage. "Yes, she could not be otherwise than admired ; but nothing can disturb the love of these two, for it has grown with their growth, a childish engage- ment, you know. As for Charlie, he is of that peculiar temperament that, if Olive should die; he would never marry." The morrow  came, bringing with it the expected travelers, and one more than went out from the home,--the baby, the little grand - daughter, who was soon installed queen of the household, entering into her kingdom by the right of love. I did not see the meeting between mother and son.  She had stepped up stairs to light the candles in Charlie's room, and did not hear the carriage when it stopped at the door; but I heard his, "Where's mother?" followed by his tread on the staircase, two stairs at a time. How bright and warm the house looked! The servants had lived in the family for many years, and shared in all its joys and sorrows. From   Lights and Shadows.      149 Mr. Lincoln down to black' Peter, there were merry hearts and sunny faces. The baby was pronounced beautiful, and nestled quietly down in my friend's lap, finding, like many others, a rest- ing-place near her heart. Mr. Lincoln's eyes rested on this picture with such a look that it w'as beautiful to witness. Mrs. Lincoln wore a dress of silver- gray silk and a cap of rich, soft lace, trimmed with blue ribbon.. At the table, I had an opportunity to see what change time had wrought in Charlie. "Can this be," I said to myself, "the same child that was once so willful, catching so read- ily the slang of the street, and smoking cigars?  His face wore the expression of a heart at peace. It is like his mother's in sweetness of expression and regularity of feature. But lie is pale, and I detect an expression of suffering, as if he had made acquaintance with pain. The stoop of the shoulders is still there, and the chest is somewhat contracted. His manner is grave but   150     Glencoe Parsonage. cheerful, and he is a good talker. Charhe was at his mother's side till about eight o'clock, and then he disappeared from the circle. A slight shadow passed over my friend's face, but it disap- peared as quickly as it came. I bade them good evening about nine o'clock, and was going home through the grapery which led to the garden. path, when I stopped to glance a moment at the bright windows of Mr. Lincoln's house, and then back again to the darknessof my own. I could not suppress one sighl, but the next minute I felt the pressure of a little hand. I knew it was Katie's. "Auntie, will you let me go home with you to - night? I am very tired and shall sleep bet- ter in your quiet home than in our noisy house." The dear, unselfish darling! She could sleep anywhere, the sleep of innocent childhood, but she knew well how much better I, could sleep with my head pillowed on her bosom. She talked some time, telling me what a won- '   Lights cand Shadows.     151 derful baby had come to us, and how much she enjoyed New York. "O Auntie! The Park is perfectly splendid, and the beautiful dresses of the ladies charmed me; I saw one who wore a blue velvet --- Just there the sentence closed, for the little talker had fallen into dreamland, and I was left alone with my memories. -   Christmas has come and gone. There was a larger gathering on Christmas eve at the Lincoln's. Henry Thayer, who had come to spend the holidays at home, was there with his sister. He is now a prominent business man in Boston; and I see his name in Railroad Compa- nies, Bank Corporations, &e., and it is whispered that he is to be a candidate for the Legislature. He is very sociable with the old neighbors, much of his reticence having worn away. I watched Olive closely that evening, for I determined to conquer the unaccountable preju- dice which I felt towards her, or know the reason of it. She looked queenly. The most fastidi-   152     GZencoe Parsonage. ous could find no fault with her dress, and her manners were equally removed from prudery and hoydenism. She was easy, unaffected, entering into the sports of the evening with interest, affa- ble to all and moving gracefully about among old and young. Charhe was proud -of her, and I watched the expression of his face as it lingered upon her. It was full of admiration. I could see the heart- worship in his eyes, the tenderness of his manly heart in all his bearing towards her. Their lives had run on from childhood, side by side; they had been children at the same school, and they stood together at God's altar and consecrated themselves to Him in the one holy hour.  But as I looked at her now, I asked myself the question "Will this beautiful, fashionable girl be willing to accept the plain, self- denying way of a minister's wife?  I was seated in a little nook of the large par- lor, watching the panorama before me, when, by   Lights and Shadows.     153 some accident, Olive and her brother Henry were brought together in the shadow of the heavy cur- tain. "This is a pleasant party," he said, " though not quite as gay as our last winter's party in Washington. So you had the good sense not to wear those diamonds to -night, but they become you well. If our friends could see you as they saw you at the French Minister's house last win- ter, they would admire you more than they now do. Livy," and he lowered his. voice, "you need not tell me that Uncle Josh gave you those diamonds; it is not in his nature to be so gener- ous." "Who else do you suspect of such generos- ity?" said Olive, whose color had risen percepti- bly.  He stooped and whispered a name. I could see the rich color mantle the cheek and brow. "If it were not for that solemn - looking young minister, I know I could read you a brilliant future.   154     Glencoe Parsonage. But, Livy, did n't you do wrong to accept?" "Hush, Henry ;" and her hand was laid lightly on his arm. "Yes, yes, I see; Charlie's eyes are fixed upon you; you are the center round which his soul moves; he lives and breathes for you. If he knew about the devotion of another worshiper, think you he would love as ardently? But there comes La Mere Lincoln, with that mathematical diagram, Stuart. Let us ask him if he has heard from Willie Lee. "They tell me that he pretends that he ought not to have had the vale- dictory and made a great lamentation over Wil- lie's flight. For my part, I shouldn't be sur- prised to learn that he was the informer himself." Stuart came, and was received with great apparent cordiality by brother and sister. As they moved away, after a few minutes conversa- tion, I wab left in my corner. "Eureka!"I said to myself, "I have found out why I could not love Olive Thayer. She is fair and false;"   Lights and Shadows.     155 and from that hour, I trembled for Charlic's future. --We are settling down into a very quiet life. Charlie Lincoln is at the Theological Sem- inary, Mary and the baby will stay with us some months. My scholars occupy inmot of my time, and Katie, God bless her! comes in with the baby every day, making music and sunshine in my widow's home. Charlie comes home every few weeks, and he and Olive seem to have settled down into one of those humdrum courtships which excite no gos- sip, because it is a thing accepted; and when they walk arm in arm to church, no one remarks upon it 'any more than upon Deacon Beck and his wife, who celebrated their fiftieth anniversary last week. It is now nearly time for the "Flying; Clocd" to reach Boston, It lacks only twenty days of one year since sheleft. She was reported once on her passage otL. My heart is quiet, but   10oo    6;;lWencoe Parsonage. sometimes I think it is the lull of a dead heart, and not the peace of resignation. There have been some terrible gales in the latitude near which the vessel must have been at the time. A number of vessels are reported as dismasted, and one was wrecked.. Our friends do not talk mueh about it, and are very slol4 in giving me infor- mation. I have one faithful friend, who believes that the simple truth is best even in the hour of trouble. Stuart is teaching school at Cold Run, only ten miles fromn Glencoe, and comes often to see me. More tlan once his, "Let us pray," has soothed my spirit, as did the Master's words the troubled waters of the stormy sea. --  The ship should have been in before this time. I can see that my friends are anxious, though they-are so hopeful when they talk with me. I can see a shadow on Mary's face, and when her hope fails I may well despair. Katie only remains bright and gay as ever. She is here now nearly all the time. "O Katie, dar- i      Lzights and Shadows.      157 ling! I sometimes say to myself, " how can you be so gay when Willie is sleeping his death sleep in the sea?" But she knows nothing, of the sweet romance I had woven so many years ago, and to  which I had clung so fondly.  Once I surprised her in tears, and thought perhaps she felt more deeply than I had imagined, but the very next minute she was dancing with the baby to a merry tune. To -day  the Commercial Advertiser con- tained 'he following pargrgraph; "Fears are entertained that the ship Flying Cloud may have been lost in the gale of October 20, in which so mlany vessels were dismantled and one lost. Captain Simonds is an old and experienced seaman, and may have kept his vessel away from the coast."  I carried that paper to my room and prayed for resignation to live. It is terrible to live on when the one tie that binds us to life is sundered I I saw in that hour what had never been clear to me before, that I had lived for my husband and child!   158     Glencoe Parsonage. How selfish my life! How terrible my pun- ishment! I could think of my husband's death with calm- ness, but Willie!"O  God! hast thou. not promised to answer prayer, and has my child, - for whom such prayers were offered, for whom a father's faith was like that of Abraham, - gone down in one breath of the angry tempest, all unppared to meet his God?" Again, a horror of great darkness was upon me. "Be still,. and know that I am God," came from my'Bible, and I bowed lmy head again and prayed: "O God, thou art infinitely wise and good. Though Thou slay me, I will trust in Thee." I consecrated myself anew to him, and resolved henceforth to live for others. A lonely life stretched out before me, but day by day, my heavenly Father will give me strength.. It is months since I wrote in my journal.  Heart and hanlds have been too busy for me to   Lights and Shaldows.    159 wield the pen. But I will go back and fill the blank. We have still a midnight mail in Glencoe. I remember well waking one night from a troulled sleep to hear the mail wagon  as it was driven to the Post Office, and thinking: c Let- ters from the outer world for all but myself! God is merciful; perhaps he will let death come before long and release me from this pain, that I may go home... Meantime, the cross which he has given to me, I will bear patiently. If this lIfe were all, - Alas!    . Just then, some one knocked upon the window of the sitting-room below. It did not rouse Katie, and I inquired, in a low voice, what was wanted. "A letter for you, Mrs. Lee; I could not wait till morning." I recognized Mr. Kendall's voice, threw on my cloak' and flew down-stairs. Mr. Kendall, handed me the letter sayinrg,- "May I wait a moment to hear the news?"   160       Glencoe Parsonage. I was trying to light the lamp, but my hands trembled so that I could not do it.  He lighted it for me, and then I saw that it was not Willie's writing. "This is cruel!"I said, and  flung the letter down. "Hold on a minute," said Mr. Kendall.      "I knew the hand, or I should not have come at this time of night.  Jack Simonds wrote that. Do n't I know? for he wrote lots of letters to our Sally, when he was courting her." "Read it! - Read it quick, Mr. Kendall," I said, for I was sick with the disappointment.   He read as follows: "DEAR IA DAM: Our vessel has just arrived in port, after the longest and stormiest voyage I ever had in my life. I weathered the storm, however, only to come down with a fever. If your son had not been one of the best nurses that ever trod a ship, my voyage would have ended before now. I owe my life to his care, but I am sorry to add that he is down with the same fever. I brought him ashore, and he is now in my house. 47, E. Street. My Polly is doing the best she can,-but the poor boy is out of his head, and keeps calling for his mother. 'Mother! mother! /A   Lights and Shadows.       161 just put your hand on my head, and it will be cool, he is say- ing that now. I wish I could give you strong encouragement that he will get through, but at any rate, it will be a comfort to have his mother with him. Come on by next train, and ask brother Kendall to come with you.  Respectfully yours, JOHN SIMONDS." I think Mrs Thayer must have been right when she said I had not much sensibility; for here was my boy dying, and yet I never knew  a hap- pier moment.  I had buried him  in the ocean long since. I had wept till the fountain of tears was dry, and had thoughtm'yself botl  a widow and childless. Now, my child had come back; come back to die, perhaps, but to die in my arms! I could calmly lay him  beside his father in the Glencoe church -yard. 'He wanted me! He longed for a touch of my hand!    I was a happy mother. I called Katie, and at the words "I have heard from Willie,"-  she s pjng from  her bed like a vhte dove from its nest, and, flinging her arms around my neck, burst into tears. "'   A               162     Glencoe Parsonage. Ay, darling, you were not so indifferent, after all. This chatting and singing were the bright flowers about the sorrowing heart! He is alive, then, Auntie?" "Yes, darling, but very sick; I am going to him. The train starts in two hours; will you help me?" At these words she was the same helpful little woman as ever, and thought of everything that I shoull need, so that we were all ready and wait- ing when Mr. Kendall came with the buggy to take me to the depot. As we stood there waiting for him, her hand in mine, she spoke precious words of comfort. "He will get well, he will; for we will all pray, and good Mr. Stuart will pray night and day." "Then you do think Mr. Stuart good, Katie," I said.                     i "Oh, yes! Auntie, good, gooder, goodest, but,"  t-         .  !    Lights and Shadows.     163 "Do. not describe my friends with a but, Katie." "All ready!" said ir. Kendall, and Stuart was forgotten for the moment. "Telegraph, Auntie, as soon as you get there, and, will you writefirst to me?"  "Yes, darling;" and we parted there, just as the sun was sending his avant couriers of light athwart the eastern horizon. I caught my last glimps9 of-Katie, standing in the door, in her bright plaid dress, holding back with one hand the mass bf brown curls that she might see us more distinctly as we drove through the village street. I little thoqght, then, that our parting would be for many months. "There, Willie, dear, lie-still a minute; do n't toss your arms about so. Lie still, and let me bathe your face in this cool water." The only reply was, a more restless flinging of the arms. "Mother! mother! come just one minute. I would like to see you once more "   164     Glencoe Parsonage. He was never more beautiful. The curls clus- tered about his head, the fever flushed his cheek, and he looked, oh! too beautiful to die. The doctor gave no encouragement. It was typhus in its worst form. I was never so help- less as I stood there, unknown to my child. A thought occurred to me. Suddenly I took both his hands in mine. "Willie, say, ' Our Father.'"In an instant the muscles relaxed, his eyes were fixed upon me, and a gleam of recog- nition passed over his face. "Our Father," he said, and went through with the Lord's prayer as if he were a child again. "Mother, mother," he said, tenderly, and, releasing one hand from mine, stroked my face and hair as an infant will sometimes caress a mother. "Mother, mother! lay your hand on my head! It is so hot, mother." I laid my hand on his forehead, and he was comforted; and while I was bathing his face and \   Lights and Shadows.     165 hands, he fell asleep. Then Captain Simonds cut off the clustering curls which had been my pride. Day after day, night after night, I watched beside my boy, tillthe fever came to a crisis. To the surprise of the doctor, and of all others who had seen him, he passed it safely. His uncom- mon vigor of constitution triumphed. But he rose from that bed a mere wreck. He was so emaciated that, frail as I am myself, I could have carried him in my arms. His step was as feeble and tottering as the step of age. The vessel has gone to New York and is here- after to sail from that port. Captain Simonds did not go in her. He would not go while Willie lay so sick. I could not persuade Willie to go to .Glencoe, and as Captain Simonds has decided to take up his abode in New York, we went thither also, taking board for a while in a small village in the suburbs of the city, where a sister of my hus-   166  .   Glencoe Parsonage. band resided. Here Willie gained strength grad- ually, but it was long before he regained his for- mer buoyant spirits. One day there came a letter which cheered him greatly. He did not show it, to me, but he said it was from Bessie Homer. She had been absent from Glencoe, and had just heard. "Aye, mother, pessie  has proved faithful amid all the changes of my life." I had long since ceased to feel unkindly toward Bessie. I was learning to accept the inevitables of life, and be passive if not resigned. I did not even tell 'Willie that Bessie had not been very true to him in his long absence. We stayed six months in our little retreat, and in all that time Willie had not gained his former health and spirits. Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln came to see us. When the latter saw poor Willie's head, almost bald, for the fever had taken what Captain "Simonds's shears spared, she could hardly speak. Willie /   Lights and Shadows.    167 noticed her emotion, and merrily exclaimed, with his old spirit, -- "You see, Aunt Mary, that the top gallant sails have gone in the storm!" t Yes, Willie, but the ship is in port for repairs, I see, and she will be rigged anew before long." Willie enjoyed this visit, and I was delighted when he took from his trunk a beautiful, carved work-box, complete in all its appointments, and said: "I bought this expressly for Katie. I suppose I have long since passed from her mem- ory, but her bright face haunted me in Canton one day, and I bought this, hoping it would please her taste." "And will you not deliver it in person, Willie?" "No, I must decline. I shall go to sea again as soon as I am able." My heart sank within me, for the matter had not been mentioned between us. It prepared me, however, for Captain Simonds's visit, a few days   .. %,  sLT^ teeuc j-7rsonage. afterwards. His interest in Willie has been of the truest and steadiest kind, from the first. "Halloo! my boy," was his first salutation to Willie. "I never expected to see you on horse- back!"  He stood at the door when Willie re- turned from his morning ride. "One would n't suppose you had been a year and more on board ship, to see you sit a horse. Sailors generally ride a horse as awkwardly as a landsman reefs a jib sail ;" then, giying him a hearty slap on the back, he added: "All you need now, my'boy, is another voyage to make you a hearty cock again." "I am ready," said Willie.  "That's a word fitly spoken, as the Scripter hath it. I came over to tell you that I have been offered the command of the Transit, as fine a ship as ever trod the water; and if you want to be first mate, the berth is yours. We shall sail in two weeks."  Willie was delighted, for he had determined to return to Canton. I made no opposition, but my   oor heart found it hard to lie still at the thought s f another long separation. *  We went to the city to remain till the vessel ift port. Bessie Homer came on, at Willie's  equest, and I treated her- kindly for my boy's  aike; but I could only marvel at the old, old story f love's blindness. She looked very bright and appy. When we went on board with Willie to ay good-bye, I heard one of the sailors say:i She's as han'some as a full - blown piny ;" and agreed with him in my heart.  ----Back to Glencoe, in my little lone home. Katie was there with a nice supper, a bright oom and a warm welcome. But she looked thin ,nd pale. ,  "Why did n't you come on, Birdie, to see Wil- ie off? I can not tell you how yoh disappointed me; )y refusing our invitation."  "I could n't, Auntie; the baby needed me,   ^ and mamma was not well, and Charlie came iome for a visit just at that time."  ,I   170      Glencoe Parsongoe. "And you were not specially pleased with Stu- art for company?i No, Auntie, but,---- "Never mind, Katie," I said, as I saw her eyes fill with tears. -"Tell me all the news in Glencoe." "Kate Green is married to John Brown, and the Cabots are here from Boston, and Charlie is to preach his first sermon in our church to - mor- row. Mr. Holden says that these fond mothers spoil their boys, andthat Willie Lee is ruined for want of stern discipline; and Deacon Beck says, if only poor, dear Mrs. Lee would consent to marry 'Squire Stubbs and-settle down here, it would be a blessing to the eight young Stubbses, who sadly need a mother, and Aunt Betsey --" "There, stop,Katie; that will do. The plum of this conglomerate pudding is Charlie's first sermon. But there is the bell. I hoped, Katie, to have had you all to myself this evening." It was young Mr. Cabot, come to take Katie to   Lights and Shadows.     171 ride. The Cabots are joint owners in the mills herewith Mr. Lincoln. They are wealthy and cultivated people, and make quite a ripple in Glencoe waters when they come aamong us. The old lady seems to me a mass of silk, thread lace and diamonds. I wonder if there would be much left of her if these should be removed. They have lived in Paris so much that they have imbibed French manners, and French thinking, too. They sometimes go. to church on Sundays morning, but spend the afternoon in riding, and the evening at a sumptuous dinner. Herbert used to say: "Bertha, dear, I find it hard to do my duty when the Cabots are in town. When Jim Ball goes around the streets, ragged, profane and drunk, he is a sermon, in himself, against intem- perance; when Jack Whitman talks infidelity, my people are repelled, for they see the craft and dis- honesty, of his daily life; but when the Cabots, with all the Charmis of wealth and elegance, are here, refined in manners, liberal in purse, honor-   172     Glencoe Parsonage. able in business, but drinking wine daily at their table, playing cards for pastime, and reading the subtle, seductive books of Strauss and fashion- able French writers, I find it hard to show my people sin in its true light. The dead men's bones are there, but they see them not, for the gilded marble and the beautiful flowers that ad-orn it." I thought of Herbert's remark when Gerald Cabot entered the room. He is an agreeable * young man, with all the charms which position, wealth and education can give. "Come, Miss Katie, the evening is fine, and I trust yofu will give me the pleasure of driving with you to Riverside. We will come back by moon- light, as I find the moon rises before eight ' o'clock." There was a slight flush on Katie's cheeks, a little hesitation, as she turned her bright eyes to the gentleman and said: "It's the evening for the prayer-meeting, Mr. Cabot, and you must excuse me from riding."   Lights and Shadows.  *  173 I could see the look of disappointment in the gentleman's face, and the least curl of contempt in the lip, as he replied: "I am sorry, MAs Katie, and wish you could forego the prayer meeting for the pure worship of nature. God is in the hills and waters, in val- ley and sky, as surely as in that dingy little chapel."  "Yes, yes, Mr. Cabot, I suppose so; I can not reason with you about it, because I do not under- stand logic; but I never miss the prayer - meeting. It is to me a half-way house between Sundays, and I feel stronger and happier for 'esting there awhile." Cabot was standing by the piano, and carelessly ran his fingers over the keys, to a pretty French air. "Ah, what is this?" he asked, as he glanced at a little tune and hymn book' which lay open on the piano.        . : "Only thie; music I was practicing for tnc meet- I   174      Glencoe Parsonage. ing. You would not like it, Mr. Cabot, I think, for it is very simple." "Allow me to be judge," he said. -Without hesitation, Katie ise and seated her- self at the piano, and played and sang: "Prayer is the Christian's vital breath, The Christian's native air, His watchword at the gate of death,- He enters heaven by prayer." "That is good music, at least," he said; "if you will not go to ride with me, let me at least drive. Mrs. Lee and yourself to the meeting." There was no objection to this, but on no ac- count could he be induced to enter. Sunday evening.-   Charlie Lincoln preach-. ed his first sermon, to -day. He is a good writer, and speaks well, but is not brilliant, and will never make a sensation preacher, for he lacks the vigorous health so essential to energetic delivery. His, manner was quiet, but sincere and earnest. You feel that you are listening to one who speaks from the heart, and his face bears the impress of 1   Lights and Shadows.     175 a soul that lives in daily communion with God. There was no effort at display. We all felt that we were in the presence of one whose mission\ on earth was to preach Christ crucified to fallen man. He came home with me, and rested in my quiet room. "I am not a preacher," he said, "to win the ap- plause of my hearers. I have not the gift of elo- quence, but I will do my Master's work." After a few minutes of rest, he turned to me and said,--- "Ah! Mrs. Lee, if Willie could only stand in that pulpit! He was the best speaker in his class. Perhaps he may yet preach the gospel." I shook my head. , Alas! my boy was, perhaps, that very moment walking the deck with a cigar in his mouth, or busy landing a cargo at some port. "No, Charlie; I have long since ceased to hope for this. One by one the cherished hopes of my life are disappointed, and now my only prayer   176     Glencoe Parsonage. is that my son may be a Christian. I have no higher ambition now for him. The brilliant promise of his childhood is not fulfilled, but God has spared Bim for some good purpose, I believe." I am sure, Auntie, that God will not forsake us. He is leading your son by a way which you would not have marked out; yet who knows but this experience, this knowledge of life and of nmen on board ship, may not enable him to be a more useful Christian than ifhe had lived the entire life of a student? Says some writer: 'One of the noblest men I ever knew had committed a very grave error in his youth. Through these fierce fires of temptation, not always unscathed, I think the Lord often leads those whom he is fitting for his chosen sons of consolation. No one has such broad charity as he who knows from his own experience how easy it is to go astray. I re- member this friend, leading back many a wan- dering soul with a pity and tenderness which were something wonderful.'" I '   Lights and ShadoWs.    1" This was a new view of Willie's case, and it gave me comfort. While  we were talking, Mr. Cabot's car- riage stopped at the door, and the servant came in with a note to Katie. It was an invitation to dine with them at six o'clock that evening. Katie stood irresolute for a moment, with the note in her hand. Sohe enjoyed the society of the Cabots, why should she not? The elegance of their din- ners pleased her fastidious taste. The real silver, the cut glass, the flowers, the music and the re- finement of the guests who often came from the city to spend Sunday with the Cabots, were all attractions to our bright Katie. "What is it?" said Charlie, as Katie stood with a grave look, re- reading the note. "I would like to go, Charlie." "Aye, an invitation to go to one of the Cabots' Sunday' dinners? They are very elegant, I am told." "Auntie," said Katie, "I am so troubled about   178       Glencoe rarsonage. answering this.  I can not go, but I fear it will be rude to give my true reason." What is your true reason, Katie?" - Why, Charlie, it is the Sabbath!" "Katie dear, answer it just as your own con- science dictates," he said. Katie went to her room  and returned with the  following: "MY DEAR MADAM: I thank you for your kind invitation to dinner, but I can not acceptit on the Sabbath. Respectfully yours, KATE LINCOLN." "It will give offense, I fear," said Charlie.   To CHAPTER VIII. UNCOVERED HEARTS. was writing at my desk, this morn- ing, when Katie came in with a face that bore the marks of recent tears, and throwing herself on the carpet at my feet, she laid her head on my lap and exclaimed,- O"Auntie! it will kill Charlie ; I think it will kill him! She should have been less hasty. It is critel as 'the grave! I wish,-I can not, dare not say what I wish may happen to her; I fear I am very wicked, Auntie." I understood it all. It had come at last! "Well, darling, Olive Thayer has concluded to marry a rich old gentleman, instead of becoming k .    180      Glencoe Parsonage. the wife of an humble minister of the gospel." " Auntie! you knew   this all the time, and did not tell us!" "I knew very little, Katie; but I have been silently reading Olive for many montls, and had lost confidence in her integrity. I can not say that I am sorry for the result." "But, Auntie, think of Charlie's perfect trust in her.  The awakening is terrible for him!" "Yes, but better now than later.   I know  it will darken his life,-that it will be hard to bear; but Charlie is moored on a rock, he will not be utterly cast down." "Here it is, Auntie." Katie opened a Washington paper and read: "MARRIED.-IIn this city, on Thursday cevening, Hon. Asa Willetts, Senator from Alabama, to Miss Olive A. Thayer, of Glencoe, Mass. The wedding was a brilliant affair. The bride has been a reigning belle this winter, and she was never more beautiful than in the unique and rich costume whidh she wore at the altar. We congratulate the Honorable member upon winning so fair a prize. The happy couple leave to - morrow for a European tour."   Uncovered Hearts.        181 "Surely, my child, Charlie must have known of this before.  She can not be so  utterly heart- less." "Her own   mother knew   nothing  of it, but Charlie's last letter bears date only a week prc- vious.  Mother told me I   mlight read a part of Olive's letter to you. I copied a part." And she read as follows :  ' I received your letterby the same mail which brought one from mother. She gave me a description of your first sermon in Glencoe. It is a beautiful text,-'Abide in the truth ' "Perhaps, Charlie. I have not been quite truthful with you, and I will make amends now. You have sometimes thought me a little cold -hearted. The truth is, Charlie, I have not loved you as you deserve, neither do I feel myself fit to be a minister's wife. I should never be happy, lilke Mrs. Lee, in a country parsonage, nor be willing to leave country And friends for a heathen - land. "I hope you are quite well, now, and will find a wife who is more worthy of you than your old friend and playmate. OLIVE." ' Cool, and quite to the purpose," I replied. "I pity Mrs. Thayer," said Katie.    "She has been at our house this mlorning, and is very much t                .   182       Glencoe Pcirsonage. perplexed and troubled.   She was not even invited to the wedding.'  She received a letter by, the same mail which brought the paper.   She says to her mother: ' I wish you would see Charlie. I have nothing more to add. in excuse for my conduct, except that I never loved him as I ought, if I were to become his wife. I have corresponded with Mr. Willett's for six months, but Henry advised me to keep the matter a secret, and,he has been my adviser in this matter. We start for Europe immediately. Henry said that, if I were mar- ried at once, here, there would be less gossip and excitement in Glencoe, than if my wedding took place at home. "I am sure. dear mother, you will approve my choice when you see Mr. Willetts. He has a fine establishment, south, and he says I shall lead a gay and happy life. "I will write you again, to-morrow. ,Your affectionate daughter, OLIVE." "H-   !"I said;  " ' affectionate.' That is an expressive word, of which she does not, com- prehend the meaning." Andthua our loved one, Charlie, awoke from a beautiful dream!   Olive was dead to him,-dead in the saddest sense of the word. We lay our beloved in the grave, in the glori-   Uncovered Hearts.     183 ous hope of a resurrection, a- resurrection that shall bring us a reunion,l-meeting to part no more. We deck the grave with immortelles as an emblem of the love that dies not with the body. How much'sadder to'bury the living dead, and know that falsehood and deception have opened a grave so deep that no archangel's trump can awaken the sleeper! Charlie came to us for a few days. He was serene, and seldom alluded to his trial. He is not one who carries his griefs to the market place, but I am sure that Stuart's friendship was a great consolation to him. That big, honest, manly heart was a good resting-place for Charlie's sensi- tive, refined nature. -This softened Katie's heart a little, and she gave him a warmer reception than usual when he called, this evening. Monday evening.---The Cabots have left Glencoe. Katie's refusal to dine with them on Sunday did not break friendship. I think if we are firm but gentle in acting out our views of duty, MVYIIINVVICI. 1LW'   184     Glencoe Pacrsonage. we do not often lose the good opinion of those who differ from us. Katie is such a bright little Bird, and so thoughtful of others, that she wins the love of all who know her. She tries to regulate her life by the Saviour's example, and, with all her mirthfulness, is as firm inher faith as good old Deacon Beck, whose trust in God is so strong, that he stands, like the Israelites, by the Jordan, longing for the moment when God shall part the waters for him to pass over. The Cabots make Aa pet of Katie, and take her from us a great deal. She. often rides ott with Madam Cabot, who is a large, stately woman, and dresses in rich silks and costly laces. Katie, like a bird of rich plumage, nestles down beside her.  "They say,"-that means, I suppose, the gos- sips of Glencoe,-that Gerald Cabot would like to take Katie Flway from us. The thought does not please me. I am selfish, IJuppose; but, though the marriage would be a brilliant one, I do not    Uncovered Hearts.     185 think it would be for Katie's peace. The glitter of wealth, the careless lives of those who regard the Bible a book of fables and Christ a myth, would prove full of danger to the little one who is trying to walk in the' straight and narrow path. Let me think a moment. Is Katie the child that I call her? She is seven years younger than Willie, and he is twenty - three. Sixteen! How these children grow into womanhood while we are calling them our little ones! Aye, Katie, I will pray that God may have you in his holy keeping, and give enc grace to part with you, some day, but not yet, olf,not yet! - The summer is over and gone; the 1leas- ant days of autumn are here. I have heard from Willie! The: ship was spoken by an inward- bound vessel, and I received a long letter. Wil- ligs health is fully restored,-O God, I thank thee, with a full heart! The voyage, thus far, has been pleasant. I am so glad that Katic says   186     Glencoe Parsonage. I am like the dear auntie of her childhood. We walk and sing, and ride together, and the little cottage seems brighter than a palace to us. Stuart and Charlie, who are at the same Theo- logical Seminary, come over once a month and spend Sunday with us. Frank Holden leads the village choir, and comes on Saturday evening to sing in my parlor,--Charlie, Katie, Stuart and Frank. Stuart has a splendid bass voice. What music they make! I feel that it is a blessed preparation'for the Sabbath. Music is Charlie's delight. I watched his countenance as he sang: "Nearer my God, to thee, Nearer to thee; E 'en though it be a cross That raiseth me." I dare not sing it, but he seems to do so with his whole heart. His trials have brought him very near to God, and when-he comes among us, I feel C      I Q.    Uncovered Hearts.     187  - as though we were entertaining a saint ripe for heaven. Stuart is as angular as ever. He has not learned any more polish at the Seminary, and is as much troubled where to put his hands and feet as when he first visited us. Katie does not laugh about it as she once did, but treats him kindly for Charlie's sake. I smile when I see Stuart and Katie talking or singing together. It reminds me of a humming bird and a great Newfoundland dog. Stuart is six feet four', his arms-are unusually long, and as the tailor is chary of the cloth in his coat sleeves, no wonder his huge, hands trouble him,- theie is so much of them. Gerald Cabot is here often. His ostensible business is the overseeing of the new mill, but as he has more money than knowledge of manufac- turing, Mr. Lincoln says that his prcgence has dit- tle influence there. He always calls to take Katie out to ride. An incident happened the other day which troubled me not a little.     [    188      Glencoe Parsonage. Cabot's carriage was at my door early in the morning.  He had a pair of fine bays, well groomed, and looking as they felt, proud of their gay trappings. Gerald Cabot asked Katie if she would ride to Glen's Falls, a pretty little water- ing-place about ten miles from here, where Madam  Cabot was spending a few days. Katie was ready in five minutes. She is ond of those persons who never stand long at the mirror,- a few touches, a little pecking of the bright plum- * age, and she is ready for flight. I noticed the admiration in Cabot's eyes as she came in, wearing her blue silk and white hat, with neatly fitting gloves on her hands,-not held loosely, to be put on in the carriage,;-and her face radiant as the skies: without. Cabot was driving. I saw them depart with a sigh. Katie is my onb little ewe lamb, and I could not resign her, even for so bright a destiny, without a 'feel- ing of disappointment. Ithought of Bessie Ho- mer and sighed.   Uncovered Hearts.     189 "This will never do, little woman," I said to myself; " wait till you come to the bridge before you worry about crossing it. If your life is to be a lonely one; fill it with good works." I therefore put on my bonnet and went to see ' widow West, who is sick with a rieumatic fever. She has lost her husband and four children, and her only remaining child is hopelessly insane. 'I spent the day in putting her house in order, sew- ing for her, and adding wLat little I could to her comfort. I returnedAtome at sunset, much more at peace with myself Than when I went out.  I had scarcely4entercd the house 'when I heard Cabot's carriage at the door. I went to receive them, and to ask the gentleman in to tea,-a lit- tle piece of politeness Jwhich was to satisfy my own mind that I had conquered the wrong fcclings of the morning.  -            ^ His curt refusal surprised me, and with a mut- tered good evening, he sprang into the carriatge and gave the bays such a cruel cut with the whip,   190     Glencoe Parsonage. that they plunged and reared, to the astonishment of the gaping boys in the street and my own fear of the driver's safety. I closed the door and turned to speak to Katie, but I only caught sight of a blue silk dress fluttering up the stair - case, and, the next nfoment, heard the key turn in the  lock of a little room which Katie called her own study, I stood a little bewildered. Ihave seen men sometimes give a sort of whistle when in such a mood, but not being given to whistling, I stood stupidly staring upwards at the locked door, as if I expected the gift of clairvoyance. Finding it was not bestowed, I went about my business of preparing supper; but, though I rang the little bell when it was ready, no one came to share it with me, and I waited till twilight was, past and the candles had been lighted. At last I ventured to tap at the door. It was not opened to me, but a pleasant little voice said,- "Yes, Auntie, I will be with you in a moment." A              be   Uncovered Hiearts.   191 When she came, she looked like a little birdie. that had been out in the rain, with drooping wings and bowed head. I drew her towards me. "Why, Birdie, you went out as bright as a singing lark, and you come back like a dove that has lost its mate." She laid her head  on my shoulder and said,-'          v " Auntie, may I be your own Katie always, and live with you all the time, till I die?" "Why, Katie, you know how happy that would make me; but do n't talk about dying. I do not talk about dying. It is a habit that young girls have sometimes, when they feel very sentimental, or when little peplexities happen to them." "Well, Auntie, if yof think it is wrong, I will not, but sometimes I think death would be easy for mle." "Come, Katie, eat a few of these delicious blackberries. I expect, some day, to see you in a beautiful house of ydur own, and I shall leave \1 '. v   192     Glencoe Parsonage. my lonely cottage, once in a while, to go to you." "No, Auntie, I shall never be married. I have seen too much of life already ever to wish to be married. No, I will live withk you, and we will be happy in trying to do good to others." I laughed merrily; for, in truth, my day's work had done me good, and Katie, seeing my mood, turned the subject. I was sorry, afterwards, that I had not hu- rmored her mood a little'; for I was very curious to hear what had caused it, but I would not urge a confidence that was not freely given. [It seems that Mrs. Lee learned, afterwards, what caused Katie's sadness that day; for I find a loose paper, dated many years afterwards, but inserted between the leaves, and bearing the date of this chapter. I Jill copy'tf'here.-CoMPILER] -I read Gerald Cabot's name in the paper, to- day, as present at some banquet given to Ameri- cans in Paris. There was a description of his * a    Uncovered Hearts.     193 wife and her elegant toilette. This reminded me  to ask Katie why Cabot never visited us after that ride to Glen's Falls; and she gave me the particulars, which I, having plenty of leisure during these days, wrote down for my  own amusement. They rode a few minutes, when Cabot said,- ' Miss Katie, how do you like the bays?" "Very much, sir; they trot splendidly, and the carriage is so easy that we seem to be floating alono as if we were in a boat." "Can you drive?" "Try me, sir." Cabot gave her the ribbons.  The horses, seemed to understand wyhat was expected of them, while Cabot sat back, enjoying the sight of Katie, who watched the horses with great interest. "I see you can manage a horse in harness as well as when you are on horseback." "You have one horse, Mr. Cabot, that I would especially like to try."   194      Glencoe Parsonage. "Aye, my thorough -bred Sultana.  She is a beauty, but needs a tight rein and a fearless rider. She is at your service if you willrenture." "I will venture, sir, any morning." , When did you become such a skillful horse- woman, Miss Katie?" "Here in Glencoe. Willie taught me, when I was a little girl, not to be afraid of a horse. I practiced so much with him at one time, and could manage a horse so well, that they called me the little circus rider." * "Is he your cousin, Miss Katie?" "No, but I always call him so, mother. and Auntie Lee are like sisters." "This 'Cousin Willie' is a sort of scape - grace, I believe,-:a sailor, and has broken his mother's heart with his bad ways."  "He is no scape- grace at all, neither is his mother's heart-broken. He is now at Canton, sir, and writes beautiful letters to Jhis mother.' Cabot smiled as he looked at Katie's flushed o       Uncovered Hearts.     195  face, who, in her excitement, was forgetting her duty as driver.  "Miss Katie, your warmth reminds me of a reportwhich my mother heard i the village,- that you and Willie Lee were betrothed in your babyhood." "It is not so, Mr. Cabot; our parents had more sense and wisdom. Willie Lee is engaged to marry Bessie' Homer." " "That coarse beauty that sometimes sings in the village choir? Quite to a sailor's taste, I fancy. But these people are not proper associates for you, Miss Katie."  "I do not associate with Bessie lIomer, but Willie is a scholar and a gentleman." "Well, -Miss Katie, I will send Sultana to you to - morrow evening, and come with this off bay to accompany you." "To - morfow is the Sabbath." "Yes, I know it. I hd a, beautiful ride last Sunday evening. Ah, I forget; you are a little   , 196     Glencoe Parsonage. puritan, and rather strict in your notions of  pleasure-and duty." "They are not 'notions,' Mr. Cabot. The Sabbath is hol, time, and I have been taught to reverence it." "Yes, yes, like most of the puritan descend- ants; but, Miss Katie, a few years in Paris will cure you of such strictness." "Then I hope never to see Paris." "And I hope, Miss Katie, that you may live there many years.  This religion is a terrible bondage. It fetters soul and body. I do not mean that we should not worship God and live pure lives; but this preaching and praying, this strict observance of the Sabbath, this-going about among the poor and degraded,-why, 'Katie, you were made for a brighter life, and I want to lead you into it." ' A different life from that which my dear mother lives, Mr. Cabot?" "Your mother is a noble woman, Katie, but   Uncovered Hearts.     197 her life has been bounded by Glencoe horizon. Had she lived among more refined and fashionable people, she might have had more enjoyment of life. I would like? to see you removed from all sight and sound of poverty and vulgarity, and surrounded by everything that can make life de- lightful to you."  "Christ, though rich and heir of all things, made himself poor that we- might be saved; and he left the poor and suffering that those of- us to whom he has given wealth may help them to bear their burdens." Just then they arrived at the Falls, and Maid- am Cabot met them at the door. They dined with her, and on their return home the conversa- tion was renewed. Gerald Cabot had no doubt of winning Katie. His wealth, his handsome person and his accomplished manners made him a favorite in any society. He was surprised, therefore, when he had offered Katie, most sin- cerely, his heart and hand, to find a firm but gen-   198      Glencoe Parsonage. tie refus. He was at first silent, with surprise, but at length said,-     - "You will think better of this, Miss Katie. I will hope still. Indeed, I would be almost a Christian could I win you." "That motive would lead me to doubt your sin- cerity. Once for all, Mr. Cabot, I can never be your wife, and you will forfeit my respect forever, if this subject is renewed:" It was a stern, decided reply for. little Birdie, and it was given just before they stopped at my door. The horses felt the outhurst of Cabot's disappointment. "To think, Auntie," said Katie to me, as she spoke of it to - day,-so many years afterwards,- "that he presumed to think I would marry a man who had no faith in my mother's Saviour, no rev- erence for God's word and his Sabbath!" ' 1   CHAPTER IX. DAY DAWNING. "No Matter how barren the past may have been; It is enough for us to know that the leaves are green." (M  D  ffound the following  among  the items in the "Ship News" of the morn- ing paper on Tuesday: "Ship Transit telegraphed off Sandy Hook this morning at four o'clock.." "Why did I not have a telegram?"I asked my- self, repeatedly, and my anxiety was very great, when two days had passed, and neither telegram nor letter had arrived.' On the third day, as twilight was coming on,   200     Glencoe Parsonage. and I sat, dreading the sleepless night which I knew must come, Mr. Kendall's well- known step and knock were heard at the door. Captain Simonds was with him. The sight of him made my heart sink within me, and I think I must have showed my fear in my face, for he said, hastily,- "Willie is all right, ma'am; I am not a mes- senger of evil."  "But why has he not telegraphed?" "Poor fellow! he could n't telegraph from Can- ton, or he would, quick enough. He has business which detains him there, and here is a whole pack- age of letters which will explain it all to you. He -is well and hearty, has gained thirty pounds, and is strong as Samson." I had long since learned to bear such disappoint- ments. I thank God that he is well and happy. But my heart yearns to see him. Six months is a long time to wait. Charlie Lincoln preached for us again last Sun-   Day Dawning.       .201 day. The blessing had been asked, and the con- gregation were seated again, when a little com- motion was made by the entrance of two stran- gers, a large, portly, white-headed gentleman and a richly - dressed lady. They entered Mrs. Thayer's pew, and then I recognized Mr. and Mrs. Willetts They had returned from their European tour the week previous. She is as beautiful as ever, more so, perhaps, in her rich attire which she knows well how to arrange. Travel has given a healthier glow to her cheeks, and she sat there, in outward sdeming at least, a woman of rare beauty. The preacher had turned to the chapter where the rapt disciple sees a vision of the New Jerusa- lem. He paused an instant, till the ripple caused by the entrance of the strangers had died away, and then he read in slow, sweet tones these glowing words: "And I, John, saw the holy city, the New Je-   202      Glencoe Parsonage. rusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband." Then came the precious old hymn that has made so many hearts glow with rapture: "There is a land of pure delight, Where saints immortal reign; Infinite day excludes the night, And pleasures banish pain." Charlie looked,. that day, like one who had talked with God, and his prayer ascended, as Jeremy Taylor would tell us, like the lark that had risen above the storm-cloud in its heavenward flight:    .  His text was,--"There remaineth, therefore, a rest to the people of God." We have heretofore thought Charlie a little de- ficient in poetic fancy and rich imagery, but that day he bore us heavenward by the beauty of ,his language and the sweetness of his manner. His sermon was' redolent with the spirit of heaven, and he, like one who, having visited the celestial hills, turns back ai homent to tell us of their 4   Day Dawning.       203 glories. Hejoined me at the close of the service, and when we reached home,'he was much ex- hausted. I gave him a cordial. "Thank you, Auntie, I needed it. Icame in here, partly because I shrink from giving my mother pain. I do not like to tell hier that I raised a large quantity of blood to - day." "Why, Charlie, how could you preach?" He smiled. "Why, Auntie, I preach with more eise, phys- ically I -nean, after such an attack. I feel like a bird, and long to fly. I am not ialarmed, and believe that the climate of 'Persia will restore my healthi. I long to stand on missionary ground." Herested in the quiet, darkened room, and preached again in the afternoon. He has not mentioned Olive. If her presence awakenedold memories, they did not disturb him. God has given him that peace which no one has power to take away, but it is peace after struggle, victory after a well fought battle.   -  a - ^-ffuw rL-lCsonage. I am afraid there is a spice of retaliation in my heart which Charlie would not approve, for I am pleased to learn that not one person in Glencoe called on Mrs. Willetts! Not one old friend wel- comed her back to her home! They came among us, and they went away again, but for all interest in them, they might have been express packages carried back and forth. - Frank Holden was here to -day.  He has finished all the studies required of him to the third year of college life. Stuart has been his teacher, andjl have no fear that he will be found deficient. He will enter college this fall, and struggle through in some way. Friends will aid him, I trust. Katie has become quite studious of late, and studies under the direction of her brother.  When I look at these young people who meet in my parlor so often, and remember the prayers of their mothers for them, I feel my faith strength- ened in God's promises to believing parents. Many    .'   "ay uawnzng.       205 years ago, when Willie was a baby, I proposed a mother's prayer -meeting in Glencoe. It has been well sustained since then, and though I often carry a troubled heart and a trembling voice, I dare not stay away. I would not if I dared. But I shall never forget the weight of sorrow which I carried there upon the week that Willie left col- lege. Self- reproach and a feeling of despair al- ternated, and, for the first time, I could not lead the devotions of others; but Mary Lincoln's prayer was to my troubled heart like the words of Jesus, "Peace be sti." Thus she prayed: 'O God, give unto us the faith of Abraham ' which never wavered, eveh'nn the hour of severest trial; the devotion of Hannah, who rejoiced in consecrating her all to Thy service. Thou know-. est, Lord, that we have founded our hope on the firm rock of Thy govenant, and here will we plant our feet, though all is dark around us, and nei- ther sun nor moon nor s;ars appear. Our chil- dren are Thine, for we have consecrated them to   206      Glencoe Parsonage. Thee; and we know Thou wilt make Thy promise good concerning them." It was a dark hour with me, but I felt, when she prayed thus, that I heard a voice saying unto me: "Be of good cheer, thy faith shall make thee whole," and when she closed with this,-"May the hours of darkness and sorrow be to us like the seasons of cloud and rain to the natural world, making us take deep root, and grow strong for the sunshine,"--I felt that I could say,-- Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him." The next day I heard that M*c Thayer said, she wondered that Mrs. Lee could go to the prayer - meetings; for her part, she never had any interest, in them, her children had done better without the Maternal Society than mine with it. I could not replyt for at that time it seemed that she was right. And now,*while my boy is on the sea, self- exiled from home, her son comes here only to receive the respect and hospitality of the .whole village. He does not profess to be a   Day Dawning.        207 Christian, neither does he believe that man is. sin- ful ,and needs fa change of heait to fit him for this world and for heaven; but his life is outwardly  fair and pure. He is President of a Banking In- stitution, in which Mr. Lincoln and some half a dozen others of our best men have invested funds. He is managing it well, and his opinion is quoted as authority in matters of business. He has mar- ried into one of the best families of Boston, as his mother truly says, for his wife is lovely and good. Life is very bright to them. But- I can not yet give up my faith in -prayer, though I am now in darkness and sorrow. ----That last sentence was written three weeks agco. To - day \Katie and Willie were sit- ting with me, Katie reading aloud, when she suddenly laid down her book and said, quite to our surprise,-"Auntie, it is six months to - day since Capt. Simonds was here, and I remember that he said,-- Look for Willie on the 26th of June.'      *   208     Glencoe Parsonage. "Yes, Katie, do you think I have forgotten it? but winds and waves do not always accomodate our wishes." "Patience is having her perfect work with you, Auntie," said Charlie. "For some wise purpose is this trial sent upon you. I like the old figure, that life is'like a-piece of tapestry, looked at upon the reverse side. It seems irregular and confused and devoid of all symmetry. Turn it, and what a contrast I We shall see it in all its beauty when unrolled in the eternity beyond." \ I have traveled a long and weary road, Char- lie; days and nights of anxiety have been my portion. God only knows what the end may be. I try, daily, to say, God's willbe 3one.'" "Hark, Auntie! there is the bell!" exclaimed Katie;" who knows?" "Hopeful Katie!" said Charlie. But Katie -herself was at the door as he spoke, and back again in a minute with a telegram which she held up triumphantly. I opened it and read; UP            ' -     'Day Dawning.       209 "NvEW YORK, JUNE 26. Just arrived. Can you come on to-morrow? Will meet you at the depot, 26th Street.  W. H. LEE." Katie's countenance fell, and even Charlie looked sad. "What is the reason that Willie will not come i to Glencoe?" he asked. "He cares little for his old friends, now," said Katie. "I hope time will prove that you are wrong, I said."' -- I have been one week in New York, and  have not written in my journal. I arrived about  eight o'clock in the evening. The locomotive liad been taken off at    street, and horses were attached to the train, when I noticed a large, su:- burnt, stalwart man, walking slowly through the cars. He came at last to my seat, and point- ing to the unoccupied half seat, said,- Has any one a claim to this seat, maltin?" Now, I have traveled little, and am desperately afraid of pickpockets the moment I see the spires   210     Gleneoe Parsoage. of New York; and seeing plenty of whole seats unoccupied, I replied,-"You will find it more agreeable by that window; a gehtleman left the car a moment since, with his baggage."  The man persisted in sitting by me, and soon laid his hand on mine, at which I turned round with a look which I meant should be withering, when I encountered the laughing eyes of my Willie! "Why, mother, do n't you know your own child?" and he laughed that clear, merry laugh of his childhood, that was to my heart like sun- shine to a flower. My boy! Why, I could not eat my supper that'night for looking at him. He is brown and sturdy 'and tall, and the dark curls have all come back again; and, best of all, he looks so much like his father, that, while my eyes fill with tears when I look at him, my heart is full of gratitude. The rooms which 'he had engaged for us at the hotel opened into each other.   Day Dawning.       2" "Now, mother, you need have no fear, though you are so timid in the city. I will leave my door open, and if anything happens to disturb you, you have but to speak and I shall wake." Then he kissed me and bade me good night,; and promised that, when I had had a night's rest, he would tell me all about himself and his travels. I waited till I heard his step on the stairs, and then knelt to pray, but I could n't utter a word. My heart was full, and I only bowed my head in a blissful silence. I was not asleep when Willie came to his room. He stepped lightly, lest he should disturb my slumbers. "Willie, I .am not asleep." "Will you have anything, mother? are you ill? "No, Willie; I think I am too happy to sleep." He came and sat by my side again, and talked awhile. It is so like the dear old home - life at the parsonage, that I seemed to be transported back                *      /KA   212      Glencoe Parsonage.  there. At last I fell asleep, only to dream of my husband and hear him say,-"Have faith for our child, Bertha." It was a restful night, such as I had not known for many years. I can hardly describe the sense of protection which I felt with my Willie as guard in the ante- room. Only mothers, whose wandering sons have returned to them, can understand my feelings. Our prayers were not answered. Willie was not a Christian, but he is here, alive, he reads his Bible,-the mention of his father's prayers brings tears to his eyes.' Aye, there is a rift in my dark sky. I can almost see a bit of the silver liiing. My heart is full of praise. The next day, Willie gave me his reasons for remaining in Canton. He had formed some busi- ness connections which would allow him to remain in the city. He had accumulated what to me, with my limited ideas, was a competency; but he smiled when I told him so, and asked if I would \remain in the city with him. He will not go   Day Dawning.       213 to Glencoe, even to visit. This pains me, but the subject is so unpleasant to him that I do not mention it. Bessie Homer is in the city, and Willie spends an hour or two of each evening with her. I called to see her with him. I am determined t6 have no\ root of bitterness to mar our peace. Bessie retains her bright complexion, and, I am sorry to add, her love of gaudy dress and her ig- norance of all grammatical rules. She says,-"We is," "I have saw," and "I done it," and she likes the circus and low comedy. Willie sends her books, but she prefers jewelry. How blind love can be! No' wonder there is a long hiatus in my journal this time. We have been in the valley of the shadow of death. A shining one has come down and carried a loved one to the other side. Let me go back a little. Charlie Lincoln surprised us one day, by call- ing upon us without any previous letter from i            *.   214      Glencoe Parsonage. Glencoe to inform us of his coming. He came to make preparation for his missionary life in Persia. He was very thin, and seemed exhausted and out of breath in coming up the stairs to my room. The contrast between the two boys, as I still call them, was great;--one strong, tall and elastic, the other, pale and delicate, but witlian expression in his face that was like a benediction. The one was fitted to breast the wind and the storm; the other seemed onlyp waiting to be clothed upon, to change the frail body for the spiritual vigor of heaven. Willie was troubled exceedingly, but with his usual restlessness, he consulted the best doctors, and insisted, at least, upon Charlie's placing him- self under the care of Doctor Mott. Then he took upon himself the charge of all Charlie's out- fit, and declared that he understood the matter better than any missionary. He came in one day with a neat little medicine chest. "Please examine, mother, and see if anything   more is needed; for, indeed, I don't know one drug from another." As I was examining them, he added: "I sup- pose, mother, it is some consblation to you to see me helping a missionary, is it not?, Isn't it just as acceptable as teaching the heathen the cate- chism?'  "O Willie! I wish you were fitted to teach them the way to heaven." "If I am not, iother, it is not the fault of my parents."  Charhe was resting in Willie's room. It was pleasant to have him near me. I heard him call- ing for me, faintly. I went to him. The crimson flood that almost poured: from his mouth told the cause of that call. He restcd in Willie's strong arms a moment, and then we laid him back upon his pillow, pale, almost, as the linen which covered it. His des- tiny was settled. God was calling him to heaven, not to Persia. ' ! ".f'-   216     Glencoe Parsonage. A telegram brought Mr. and Mrs, Lincoln and Katie the next day. But Charhe was very cheerful, and almost like his former self, when they came. He was very weak, and the doctor forbade conversation. His mother sat with him till he fell asleep, and then retired to an adjoining room for a little rest. Willie threw himself upbn a lounge in his own room, where Charlie still remained. About five o'clock in the morning, I was roused by a touch upon my arm. I had' lain down in my dressing - gown, for I had my fears, knowing too well that, in this disease, death often comes like a thief in the night. "Mother, come quick!' I followed him at once, but found Charlie not - in the agony of the last strucggle, as I feared, but quietly sleeping. 'Hiis left hand was under his head, which was turned from me a little. "He sleeps well, Willie," I said. Were you alarmed? See how calm and peaceful he looks i" Come nearer, mother! Take his hand!"   Day Dawning.       217 I did so, but there was no pulse. I laid mine upon the heart. It had ceased to beat  "At rest with God!" It was an easy passage. Some angel had borne the sleeping one over the cold waters of death to his eternal home. My dear friend Mary! How my heart ached for her as she bent over the sleeper, and tried to catch one breath from those pale lips, to feel one throb from the still heart! And now came the consolation of her faith. I think we seldom see a stronger friendship between mother and son, but this love was purified by the. higher love of God, and when the'mother found that the spirit had departed, she laid her hand upon the forehead of her child and said,-"Only a little while, Char- lie,-a few years at most, and we shall worship together-in heaven. God will give you the work in  heaven for which you longed on earth." It was a terrible shock to our little Katie. For   218     Glencoe Parsonage. the first day 'she shed no tears, scarcely spoke, and seemed like a flower stricken down by a sud- den tempest. When they had laid Charlie in his coffin, pre- paratory to taking him home, she came and laid her head on my bosom, and I clasped her in my arms, as I used to do when she was a child. She lay quiet' for a moment and 'then said,- "Oh, Auntie! did you know that I was going to Persia, too, and be a missionary with Charlie? Charhe had promised to send for me as soon as he was settled there, and had prepared a home for me. -Mr. and Mrs. S. will go next year, and had promised to take me with them. We shouldhave been so happy together, and I was sure my life- work was before me. I wish God would take me home to himself, now." She had been my comforter in all my hours of trial, and now it seemed as if all power of. con- solation was gone from me. I could only say,- "Katie, God will provide work for you. Your o    Day Dawning.   *    219 friends need you. Rouse yourself for your mother's sake." There was no selfishness in her nature, and the. thought of her mother recalled her to her own place. "And then, Katie," I added, "I must tell you of a little plan whch I think about in the nights when I sleep but little.' Willie, you know, will marry Bessie Homer. I will not oppose hinm; perhaps it is for the best, and I will be patient. But I can not make my home with Bessie, and when his marriage takes place, I will go back to the cottage in Glencoe, and remain till I go to my long resting-place on the hill. There we will work together. There is missionary ground in Glencoe, among the workers in the mills." Katie's eyes brightened. "Why, Auntie, I have already opened a Sun- day school there, and Clarhe said that an even- ing school for the girls would be the means of great good. I will have one at once, and when   you come back to us, Auntie, I will be your own child, as you promised long ago." "Yes, we will keep house together, and live to do good." It was a sad evening for Willie and myself, when  we returned from the depot where we had said farewell to our friends. Willie sat late in my room, for neither of us could sleep. "Poor Katie!"I said, often; "hbr heart is broken." "Why, mother, you have never told me, what a rare beauty Katie has become! It is strange that I have thought of her only as a child." "Why, Willie, she could be quite a belle if she chose. She has already many admirers. Among her most devoted we may reckon Gerald Cabot." Gerald Cabot! he is a man of birth and breeding, wealth and culture, as the papers would say. The little beauty is aspiring. Is she hold- ing herself in readiness for the Prince Royal, or a .. , % v .  , . .\   ". .y jawnzng.      2L.  the heir of all the Russias? I am not sure but she would grace the position." O Willie, you are an ignorant boy. Don't you know that a true woman would refuse her hand to a king if she could not give her heart; and that Katie could never have one who calls the Bible a fable, and has no reverence for God?" i'There are few such women, mother. Possibly, Aunt Mary may be one." "Her daughter is" like her," I replied. "You have seen so little of society, that you are not a competent judge. There, go now, or I may say too much."  Willie hesitated, was silent a moment, and then gave a long, low whistle. "Go to bed, Willie. It is not polite to whistle in ladies' society!" "I beg your pardon, mother. Good- night." December.--.A gloom has rested upon this city for many weeks. Strong men have become weak, and the bravest hearts have failed them for fear.   222     Glencoe Parsonage. Fortunes which have taken years to accumulate, have melted like snow in spring. "Who next?" is the oft- repeated question, as one after an- other of the mercantile houses has gone down. The failure of the Ohio Life and Trust Company was the first block prostrated, which has caused so many to topple. I saw but little of Willie, for he hurried away from his meals, hardly stopping indeed to eat at . all, and avoided conversation. He was out late at night, and wore a harassed and perplexed air. I did not questionhim, -but waited and watched. At last, Captain Simonds returned from his long voyage. After the vessel was telegraphed, I saw no more of Willie for two days, but when he came in late one night, Ikheard his voice at my door: "Mother, are you awake?" When was I ever asleep if he were out? "Mother, who was the man that got rid of a heavy burden in a good old book that you used to   Day Dawning.       223 read so much? I have a faint recollection of the story, but the particulars have faded out." "Why, Willie, do you not remember Christian in the Pilgrim's Progress?" "I think I feel as he did, when the burden dropped. I have been for two weeks so anxious. and perplexed that I have scarcely slept or eaten. The firm has been upon the breakers, and in dan- ger of being wrecked. But Captain Simonds's voyage has saved us. Long life to the good old captain!" "Ah, Willie, I rejoice with you; but no such burden did Christian bear. His was the burden  of sin; no worldly success can take away that burden. Willie, read aloud the second chapter of Hebrews." He did so, and rose to bid me good - night. "Willie, we have a High Priest who has made atonement for our sins. Do you feel the need of that atonement?" I'have been sinful enough, mother, if that is   224     Glencoe Parsonage. what you mean; but I am trying to amend the past." By grace are ye saved, through faith," I 're- plied, as he passed into his room. Mr. Kendall has made us a visit. He grows old, his hair is almost white, and he has given up work at the forge. He brings us all the news from Glencoe. Cabot sold all his interest in the mills, some time ago, to a Boston firm. Henry Thayer is the agent in Boston, and now the bqnk of which he is President has failed, and. Mr. Lin- coln has lost heavily. There are -fears expressed that his mills must stop. Frank Holden had de- posited his earnings,-only three hundred dollars, to be sure, but his dependence for his education,- in Thayer's bank, and has -lost it all. This is a heavier blow for him than thousands to Mr., Lin- coln. Old Mr. Holden is poor, and I see no way now for Frank to enter the ministry. The next morning, as Willie was reading the newspaper, he laid it down with an exclama- k   Day Dawning.         225 tion that startled me by its abruptness, and the strong feeling that forced it. out. "It can not be I He was above suspicion!" "What now, Lee?" said the captain; "more failures of big firms?" "Worse than that."  And he read: "Henry Thayer, of Bostoi, has proved a defaulter to the. amount of one hundred thousand dollars. "It is supposed that he has taken passage' in a New York steamer for -Europe. He has had the unlimited confidence of all parties and his fall produces a deep sensation in this com- munity."  .  "Well," said Mr. Kendall, "he was a close fellow, and I never could get a direct answer to any question which I asked.  It is lucky for me that my little fortune is in a farm and homestead. These,' with the profits of my shop, make me in- dependent of banks and factories at this time. But all our people will suffer. He has given them large dividlends, and thus led many who were eager for money to put all their savings into lhis hands.  I must go home to - day." That night, Willie told me that he should carry   226      Glencoe Parsonage. Frank Holden through his studies for the minis- try.  "You remember, mother, your wish that I stould preach the gospel; perhaps it will be a little atonement if I aid another to do it." "I have  been praying, for some days, Willie, that a door might be opened for Frank to preach." "I heard you say once, mother, that 'praying breath was never spent in vain." "Yes, Willie;  but sometimes we wait long for the answer." I did not tell him how long I had waited, and prayed and longed for him  to become a praying man- himself. - Letters have come from Glencoe.   Katie writes thus: "Mother is not well. There is something about her appear- ance which troubles me very much. She is just as gentle and kind as ever, but she has lost her interest in the household cares, and in the village concerns. She was ncver used to being idle, but now she sits hours with her hands folded, and says nothing, excepting, 'Katie dear, will you see that your father is taken care of? do not neglect him. M1ary is with her husband in Germany, and Jung is spending the year with them. You will see I am an important character at home.   Day  Dawning.         227 "The mills have stopped, and we have lost a great deal of money. I am housekeeper, now, and have dismissed all the servants but one. The carriage has been sold, and Peter has gone to live with..Mrs. Cabot, and I am so busy that I have no time to be sad. The poor people at the mills are suffering very much; it makes my heart ache to go among them, but I do so, twice a week. You know grandmother left me a thousand dol- lars, the interest of which I have never used. I bless the good old lady, every day of my life, for the good tlat it is doing these por people. Biddie Murphy's baby died last week. and they had not a dollar in the house t, buy a coffin, or a shroud to lay her out in. I carried doiwn one of Mary's baby's frocks, and laid out the dead child myself. I wish you could have seen it with the white flowers in its tiny hands, and the wreath of im- mortelles on the peat, plain coffin. "I teach a Sunday school there, and, once a week, a sewing school for the girls. You were right, Auntie; God has work for me here. I think there is work for us wherever our lot is cast. I am glad now that I am not in China or Persia, espe- cially when I see that mother sometimes smiles when I sing or laugh, but never otherwise, and sometimes not then. I am sure it is riot our pecuniary troubles that makes mother so sad, for she never cared much for money. The doctor says it is the state of her health, and vishes her to go away from Glencoc; but she pleads so earnestly to remain at home, that we do not urge it. "Frank Holden has gone back to the Seminary. He lost all his money by the failure of Thayer's bank, but in some way the Lord has provided fuids, and he will be a preacher if lie lives. Mr. Stuart is settled in his native plac3, and lis people love him as they ought. His sermons are mines of thought. Wlen he preaches here on Sunday, I think hard all the week   following. The hard work does not all end with making the  sermons, and the hearer must share the labors with the speaker. "Come to us, Auntie, if you can, and comfort my mother." The other letter was from   Frank Holdennand ran thus: "I have accepted your loan,-allow me to call it such,-as freely as it was offered. God helping me, I shall complete my studies and serve him in the ministry. Since I have become a student, I have taken a new lease of life, and sometime I hope to repay you, principal and interest. May God give you to know by personal experience the blessing of that atonement without which life itself is worthless, and the future darkness and gloom.  Your true friend,  F. HOLDEN." I hastened to Mrs. Lincoln, and found what I feared, that she had fallen into a melancholy to which some of her family had been subject. She knew and welcomed me, but the bright smile and the sunny hopefulness were all gone.   She sits in her room  and reads a little, but refuses to go out, and eats  nothing  but bread, except when, "to please Katie," as she says, she now    and then takes a few  mouthfils of meat.  My stay was of no benefit, and the doctor says   that time, and perhaps some startling event, may restore her to her former self. On my return in the cars, I saw Bessie Homer on the same train with myself, accompanied by a- young man in flashy apparel, who was very de- voted to her. Bessie's voice was loud, and she laughed much. She did not see me, and I thought- best not to make myself known to her. A friend, Mrs. Bass, a member of the same church in New York with myself, was in the same car,-and I took a seat by her side. It was dusk then, and we had still four hours' ride to the city. My seat was directly in front of Bessie and her companion. Their conversation was carried on in a voice loud enough to be heard by any one who chose to keep awake. I trust I may be pardoned, under the circumstances, if the following question prevented my going to sleep till I heard the answer: "Have you made up your mind, Bessie? " "Yes, Mr. Benson; but I can't be blamed if it makes me feel bad to do it. Mr. Lee is -very   230     Glencoe Parsonage. kind to me, and he wants me to be like his moth- er in my ways. He is making money, too, if' he don't. give me jewelry as you do. But 'tain't no use,. I 'm Bessie Homer, and shall be to the end of. ny days. I a'nt no lady, like Mrs. Lee and them Lincoln girls, and Willie has grown serious of late. He a'n't the same fellow I promised to marry, and yet I do like him, though I am half afraid of him. I am sorry to make him feel bad. I am, indeed, Mr. Benson. I tried, once, to tell him about you, but the first time I said Mr. Benson,' I was so frightened I could not get any further." e "Suppose you write,-Bessie," said her compan- ion. That would be the best way; I '1 try when I get to the city.' Then followed certain plans for going to places of amusement in the city, and by and by, in a lower voice, vows of never - ending constancy were exchanged.   Day Dawning,       231 The lady at my side slept, but I was wide awake, and continued so till we came to the city. I remainedin my seat till Willie came to me, but my fellow - travelers disappeared in the darkness, though I am sure Willie and Bessie passed each other in the crowd. I kept my own counsel. Silence and patience had been my teachers in years past, and I would still learn of them. About a week afterwards, Willie brought a letter for me to read. "I have no secrets, now, from you, mothel  though, when I was a college student, I was ex- ceedingly afraid that I should be called a 'spoon- ey,' if I confided in my mother. I see, now, that a young man who keeps fresh in his heart a good mother's memory, is never wholly lost. I am aware that I made one mistake which I could not retrieve, and I determined to pay the penalty. You know my boyish admiration of Bessie Ho-  mer. Her bright eyes and red cheeks pleased my eye, and her bold manner did not offend my * ,       t/ *   232      Glencoe Parsonage. taste. Even a little profanity only added spice to her lively talk, 'which, by the way, was in de- fiance of all grammar. When I returned from my first voyage, broken down in health, morti- fied by the loss of my reputation, she came to me, the same merry, kind - hearted girl, and I deter- mined that not even my mother should persuade me to forsake her. "But, chastened by'that long sickness, living in close intercourse with yourself, I saw for the first time Bessie's deficiencies, and saw how .un- wise my choice had been. O mother! how many a young man wrecks his own happiness and the future of his clildren by one such false step! Christian mothers often ignore the subject 'with - their sons. I know I was rude and unkind toward you when you tried, in time, to save me, but it was seed that brought forth fruit after a while. "But I had determined to marry Bessie, not- withstanding, for my honor was pledged, and I Would as soon cut off lmy right hand as have been   Day Dawning.           233 untrue to her.  I could not have respected   my.- self had I allowed her ignorance and uncultivated manners to be an excuse for my fickleness. 'It is her own fault that I am not married.    I have known Mr. Benson.    He is a vain, shallow  cox- comb, and I am sorry, for Bessie's sake, that lle has won her affection.    But you must read the letter." I copy it as it was written: ",MY DEAR WILLIE: i am sorry to tel you that i like somebody els beter than you. you se willie, Mr benson has ben to se mc-of and on for too years. He gin eic a grate dymond Ring, and he ses, he wiil Take me to travil all over the country. Now willie, i don n't want to Leave you and have you Die like charlie lincoln, but, if you dlon n't mind dear Ville i wood like to Marry benson. * your Mother aint exacly my sort, and i guess she never liked Me over much, and i should n't feel to hom with her, so if you do n't mind, wiilie, we will brake of. you must come to See Me and tel Mc if you feel very b:tad 'about it, cause i could n't be Gay, and dressin in fine close and you. dyin like charlie lincoln. but if you do n't mind, willie pleas come and let IMe take back my promis to Marry you. your Friend BESSIE HOMER..   I could not help laughing over this letter. It was such a relief to me, that my spirits rose like the mercury in the thermometer, with summer heat. I was so merry that Willie was almost grieved, and looked serious.- Well, "Willie, if you dont mind." He was standing erect, his broad chest and fine figure bearing witness to vigorous health. "It will not throw me 'into a consumption, mother, or drive me to suicide; but do not blame'. Bessie or laugh at her blunders. I would as soon find fault with Glencoe pond, because it will not float a three decker. I launched my craft in shallow water, and it has run aground." "I never liked Bessie as much as at this mo- ment,' I replied. "If you do n't mind, Willie,' do relieve her anxiety at once." Thus fell another burden which I had borne for years, and which, I fully believed, w'ould sad- den my life- I had not murmured, but trusted, and my faith was justified.        ^ A    '                        "': CHAPTER X. 1                 . FRUITION AND JOY. "Long waiting love doth entrance find Into the slow believing mind." [NOTE BY THE COMPILER.] THE two years following the date of  the last chapter, Mrs., Lee passed in the city with her son. He    purchased a house that they might once more have a home of their own. Her time was occupied in  works of charity, and her journal is filled with   : incidents of suffering and poverty, from which  much material might be gathered to interest the   'I reader.                  '     i  She was happy in doing good, and never hcsi- : " tated in making large demands upon her son's  i.   236     Glencoe Parsonage.  purse for the comfort of the wretched -people whom she sought in the cellars and by - ways of that great city. 'On one day, she is at the   r Orphan Asylums, at another-time the Old Lady's Home occupies her thoughts and depletes her purse. At all times and everywhere her heart is devising some good work which her hands exe- cute. Now and then an allusion is made to Glencoe, to which place she always turns with great inter- est. The pecuniary troubles of Mr. Lincoln told severely at last upon his health, and he sank under the burden of business cares. The mis- management of others made it difficult for him *to settle with his creditors, and the bare thought that any one .should suffir through him, embit- tered his'last days. He paid his debts fully; at last, leaving but a pittance for his wife and Katie, the only one of his children who remained unmar- ried at his. death. But the exertion hastened his departure. This           .  .        j   Fruition and Joy.      237    a , r.    ' sad event roused Mrs. Lincoin, as the doctor prY , dieted, and Katie found great consolation in her sorrow, from seeing her mother come out of her darkened room and take up the broken threads of  her life again. We copy-again from the journal. June 2. Our home is delightful. It com-  mands a view of New York harbor. I take great pleasure in watching the ships as they come and  go. They are the links which bind two conti- nents together.  I attended a Bethel meeting to- day. Willie ,! says that, among all my "charitable hobbies," as  he calls the benevolent societies to which I  belong, he thinks the sailors have the warmest  place in my heart. "My running away to sea has been the means of making many a poor sail- or's heart glad," -he said to me, yesterday.   .  Willie is thirty years old. I can hardly believe it, though he is a tall, stout man, in figure   - reminding me 6f my father; but his features, his expression, his smile are all Herbert's.    4   238      , Glencoe Parsonage.     e Sunday eve, June 10. I can not go to bed till I record God's goodness to me. Even as I write, I seem to hear a voice saying: "Bertha, I may not live to see it, but God's promise will bo, fulfilled. Is it not unto us and to our children?" If our departed ones are' permitted to be min- istering spirits unto us who linger in the body, then surely my husband has been here to- day.   l Willie and I were sitting in the porch, after service, looking down upon the crowds who throng the ferries at all hours, some for church, but the mass for amusement. It had been a warm day, but now the breeze blew fresh from the water andswas very welcome. Willie had been unusually reserved all day. He had attended church, and waited for me till the communion service was over, and then walked home with me almost in silence. The text was, -"Do this in remembrance of me."  He had risen from his evening seat and was walking back and forth on the stoop, when he turned suddenly   .                .   Fruition and Joy.      239  and said, in a voice that was resolute and calm, but full of suppressed feeling: Mother, I believe a man-ought not be ashamed to acknowledge himself a Christian before the world. I am going to Glencoe, this week, to have a talk with my minister about it." " Willie, my son, do you hope you are a Chris- tian?" "I hardly dare to hope it, my dear mother, but I am seeking to enter the kingdom of heaven. I remember what my father used to say, -'No one enters there but on his knees.' I knew the truth, --I have not forgotten the teaching of my child- hood, - but was not willing to be saved in God's way. 'By grace are ye saved, through faith, and that, not of yourselves, it is the gift of God.' This was a stumbling - block to me. But Frank Holden has never allowed me to trust in my own works. His letters to me have been faithful, ear- nest, full of love, but showing me no way into the kingdom of God but the same which my  240      Glencoe Parsonage. father taught me, - the way of the cross. I trust, through God's mercy, I have found it, and I will not be ashamed to profess my faith before the world." My ear drank in these words of my child as the thirsty hart the water from the cooling stream. I could not speak, for the tears which would flow; and when Willie came near to me and said,- "Mother, I hope to live hereafter as my father prayed that I might,"-then I knew God had heard me. "Let me tell you of an incident that occurred on my first voyage," my boy went on. "We had a terrible storm, the same, you will remember, in which so. -many vessels were lost. At the first, I was full of courage, for I had longed for just such a storm; and at that time I cared little whether I lived or died. The battle of the elements just suited the stormy state of my mind. I was obeying orders with good will, - the better sailor perhaps from my recklessness,- when suddenly a shipmate, working beside me,   Fruition and Joy.      241 was washed overboard. I seized a rope and threw out to him, but a terrible wave rolled towards him like a wild beast furious for its prey. I saw his upturned face, full of agony in the despair of was  aiz  a  despair of the moment, for he knew at Once that we were helpless to save him. He had been a profane and reckless fellow, and it seemed to me that the awful fear of the future was written in his features when he saw the ship leaving him. I was kept hard at work all that day, but that prayer of yours when I parted from you to go to college the last term, kept ringing in my cars. 'O God! bless my child ! keep him from yielding to temptation, guard him in danger, give him grace to live wor- thily or to meet death fearlessly.' " Day and night, all through that fearful storm, I worked as men wilf work in the face of death; but all that time, - amid the stern orders of the captain, the.oaths of desperate men, the hiss and roar of an angry sea, the flashes of lightning, the peals of thunder,  came ever and anon the  242     Glencoe Parsonage. words of that prayer. I could not get rid of it. I have been a different man froni that hour, but not a Christan, - not such a Christian as St. Paul means when he says, 'saved by grace.' "But, lately, I have been able to say, ' there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved,' than that' of Jesus Christ. I want my father's God and faith. I resolved not to go to Glencoe till I could redeem in some measure the follies of my youth, and bear my. testimony to the faith which sustained him. in death. I wish to do this in the church where he preached. Will you go with me, mother?" i With you, Willie, to visit your father's grave, and to hear you profess y6ur faith in Christ in the dear old church?" "Yes, mother, will you go?" "Willie, my boy, I said to your father, when you were born, and I clasped my first - born in my arms, that it seemed as if Heaven had no greater happiness for me; but I drink now the   Fruition  and Joy.        24. sweetest drop in my cup of life. My heart runs over with praise! " "You must hear Uncle Kendall's letter, mother, and learn wlhy I wish to go to Glencoe this week. The good man does not write a very good hand, but I can decipher his pot - hooks and horse - shoes, for -they are much after the patterns in his old shop.   After giving me an account of some busi- ness which he has transacted for me, he writes: ' Our people have given Frank Holden a call to become our minister, and he will be settled here on Wednesday of next week.' If there ever was a man fitted by much study and a holy life to be a minister, it is Frank Holden. I never think now- a- days of staying at homel and my good woman is so happy that she says her only regret is that we did not begin to serve God forty years ago. Your friend, Mr. Stuart, will be here, and many old friends of y6ur mother. 'I supiose you know all about Mrs. Lincoln's taking the little cottage on the Parsonage Hill. Katie and her mother live together. They are poor, but the lass is as bright and comely as ever. She does all the work with her own hands, and man- ages to keep the house as neat as wax - work. Gerald Cabot has taken Mr. Lincoln's former home for a summer residence, and is here a part of the summer wish his foreign wife. She has mighty fine airs, and takes special pleasure in riding out with her coach and servant in livery, every Sunday afternoon, about the time we are coming out of church. But, to my thinlking,    244     Glencoe- Parsonage. she is not as beautiful as our Katie of whom we are all proud. 'Our minister has no wife, and I once hinted to him that he need not go out'of the villagefor a heipmeet to do the Lord's work; but he looked at me with those great black eyes of his, with such a scared lok, that I thought I must have treed a secret, as we say of dogs when they are hunting squirrels. Perhaps he intends to give us a surprise one of these days.'" Glencoe,  September.  Frank  Holden  was ordained as a minister and settled over the church in Glencoe, a week since.  Stuart prayed, - one of those prayers of his which hold you to God's mercy - seat till you feel that prayer is the breath of angels, - the key of heaven, -  the ladder of Jacob.  That day it was half praise.  The com- munion that followed the services was, to Mrs. Lincoln and myself, like meeting with the disci- ples on the resurrection morning.  To us Christ seemed risen again. When my child stooa before the altar and pro- fessed his faith in Christ, there were few dry eyes in the congregation.  Old men wept as they remembered my husband when he was no older ili:n the son who now stood before them; the X " *    -            Fruition anM Jcoy.     245 mothers of the Maternal Prayer Meeting, white- haired and venerable now, shed tears of joy as they thought of the prayers they had offered for the wanderer. I could only repeat to myself the words of my husband: "The promise is to you and to your children." We had gone directly to Mrs. Lincoln's cottage, and remained until the close of the ordination services. The house was a Bethel. The next morning, Willie asked me to walk with him to the old home. I was happy to do it, now. The garden was in fine order, the  shade trees trimmed, the white rose-tree had climbed above the study window and was peeping over the roof of the house, and' the same flowers that I loved so well were blooming in the garden. When I walked through the house, I forgot all the present, and the years of sadness that had intervened since I left my home, for here was the same furniture in the old places. I went into the study; the carpet was of the. same moss pattern   246     Glencoe Parsonage. which Willie and I had selected in those June days, when we were so happy for a while, and the paper, fresh as if hung but yesterday, but of -the same neutral tint;-the very lounge was there that we had covered with our own hands! I rubbed my eyes to assure myself that I was awake. Willie! Willie "I said, "what does this mean?" Simply, mother, that the parsonage was for sale, and I bought it for a summer home for you. Uncle Kendall has collected the furniture which you sold to pay my debts. We will go to house- keeping to - morrow if you like." We returned to Mrs. Lincoln's to dine, where Katie, on hospitable thoughts intent, was as busy as a country housekeeper must be when there is only one pair of hands to do the work. In the evening, Stuart came to us, bringing his wife, a plain, practical woman, who was well fitted to share the burden of a missionary life.   Fruition and Joy.     247 Stuart was a home missionary in northern New York, giving his talents and all the energy of his earnest soul to a small, needy church, - not because he could not command a more prominent and lucrative position, but in accordance with a vow which he had made, that if the Lord permit- ted him to enter the ministry, he would give three years of the best of his life to missionary work. Blessed is that little church in the moral waste called"John Brown's Tract.' I was in the garden of the parsonage the next morning, when Frank Holden, - or the Reverend Mr. Holden, perhaps I should say, -came through the little gate which opened from his father's garden into our own. He looks healthier and happier than when he worked in a shoemaker's shop. A life of study and freedom from pecuni-  ary care have wrought a great change in him. His father, white- headed and bent, is a gentle, kind old man. There are some fruits that are, crabbed and sour when gathered, but become ripe *     ,1 OI   248     Glencoe Parsonage.       . and mellow by age and keeping. We sat in the arbor and talked of the old days, when he brought  his childish troubles to me. "My father was harsh to me, Mrs. Lee, but from false notions of government. Yet in spite of all his sternness he sought my good, and prayed for me. In that he never failed." "But, Frank," I said, it must be lonely to have neither mother nor wife in iyour home. I hope you will nsarry soon, for a minister needs a wife." Then I understood  what "Uncle Kinney" meant when he said, that Frank's great black eyes had a scared look when he talked of marriage. I read the look with a woman's eyes, and knew the secret. "Can it never be, Frank?" No, never, and you will be glad some time that it can not be. God bless you, Mrs.\Lee! Yow have been my good angel through life. I thank you for what you have done for me. Now "' ' , /   Fruition and' Joy.     249 my life- work is before me, -my church and the care of my aged father. ,God helping me, I will be faithful unto death." That night I gathered Katie to my arms as I was wont to do when I was a child. ?"Katie," I said, "Stuart is happy with his wife; Cabot has married a gay French lady and they are moving in the circles of fashion and pleas- ure. Poor Frank is alone, with no one to aid him in his work; can you not have pity on him?" "Pity, Auntie? that is not the creed of love which you have taught me." "Really, Katie, I fear I have taught my chil- dren some false creed, for Frank Holden will not marry; you are making the same resolve; and Willie, who thought he loved Bessie Homer, seems delighted that he is released from her, and sent her to-day a valuable wedding present." Katie gave a sudden start at these words. I would have given a great deal could I have seen her face. I gave her an account of Bessie's let-   ^250    Clencoe Parsonage. ter, and her repetition of the words, -"If you do riot mind, Willie, I will say 'yes' to Benson." Her merry laugh, as'I told her this, reminded me of my "Birdie" of other days.  "After all," she said, "Bessie has more heart than Olive Thayer. I like her better now than I ever did before."  While Katie slept, I lay awake, thinking, and a suspicion came and nestled into my heart, and I could not reason it away. It would not let me sleep, and it was like a key which opened many rooms. I was, all night long, wandering through the chambers of memory with that little golden key, and, as one after another of the doors opened so easily, I wondered I had never looked for that key before. I fell asleep towards morning, and when I awoke, Katie was standing in her long night- dreas,. smoothing the luxuriant hair which still hung in natural curls. She turned towards me with a smile, and said, -"If you do not mind,  .                    ,i.   Fruition and Joy.     251 Willie, I would like to say ye s'to Benson." -- -e were six weeks in Glencoe. Willie was a happy child again, living oyer the old times. Mr. Kendall came every day to sit in a warm, sunny place in the garden. He came to talk of heaven and the loved ones who were there. He is a child- like, humble Christian, and a great comfort to. the young minister. But of all the old friendships, not one seems to have kept so bright as that between Mrs. Lin- coln and Willie. She finds in the strong, prompt business man just the support which she needs. She watched him, one day, as he came up the deep yard, and then, turning to me, while a sweet smile lighted her face, she said, -- "Be thou no more cast down, O my soul, nor disquieted within me; for I hope in God, and will praise Him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Bertha, God will answer prayer. I know how earnestly you prayed that your child might preach the gospel; he does preach it, * ,  '* ,   ?t   2i2o    Glencoe Parsonage. though not in the way you hoped. My prayer eyer was:  Give him a renewed heart; make him a Christian in heart and life.' I believed God would hear me. It night be that the boy would die a. poor sailor in a foreign land, or on the sea, but I believed he would die a child of God. 'Why are we ever faithless and unbelieving?" -  These are happy days, and the bright sum- mer weather was never more beautiful. Willie works in the garden as he used to do when a boy. Katie was with me, one day, and, when Willie returned from his walk home with her, I could not help saying: Where is there another woman who unites so much that is lovely in mind and person as Katie?" "The promise of her childhood is more than fulfilled," he said. "She reminds me of Dante's beautiful sonnet." And he recited these lines: "And though she hears her praises, she doth go Benignly, clothed with all humility; And, like a thing come down, she seems to be, From heaven to earth a miracle to show,- ,.          ,   Fruition and Joy.      253 So pleaseth she whoever cometh nigh: She gives the heart a sweetness through the eyes Which none can understand who do not prize." Oh, Willie! it has always seemed strange to me that you had not appreciated this loveliness, years ago." 'We were in the yard, walking under the old elm trees. He stopped, and leaning against one, said,- Mother, the fact that I could not, has perhaps shut me out from an earthly paradise. I have barred and barricaded my own heart lest I should think too much of Katie. Bessic Homer and Katie Lincoln! The sunflower and the lily! The paste and the diamond! The one of the earth, earthy, the other, pure and heavenly.' But Katie shows that she values my taste for what it is worth. She avoids me, and never indulges in the familiarity of our childhood. The love which she feels for the mother sheds no brightness upon the son. I confess that it pains ne." w            ,.          254     Glencoe Parsonage.  I was satisfied with Willie's self- depreciation. He ought to feel thus, but I smiled and said, - "As you and Katie have decided never to marry; we mothers will have the rare pleasure of keep- ing our children with us.?' "Is that Katie's decision?", "Yes, I think so." The next day Willie was very restless and absent-minded, wandering from garden to house, and from library to attic, as if in search of some- thing which he had lost. After tea he walked out, and I did not see him till towards evening. It was a warm night. I was sitting in the library by an open window. The roses were blooming in the garden, and a vase of them stood on the table. I could catch a glimpse through the trees of- the white monument which marked the resting-place of my husband. For a few minutes, the bitterness of that June came back to me. The house was still, the moonlight slept upon the green sward, and the shadows of the *.'          * "   -FrIuition and Joy.     255  - trees were distinctly defined upon the lawn. The  ' perfume of the flowers came in at the open win- Adow. Everything reminded me of that time  when my life was suddenly overshadowed with a great sorrow. There are moments when the tabernacle of  God is let down to' men, and we are drawn in from the sin and sorrow of earth, to dwell a while with heavenly visitors. I saw then all the way in which God had led me; the bitterest trials of life had drawn me nearer to Him, and I could say, "Lord, I thank thee for the sor-     rows as well as the joys of life." I heard the click of the garden gate. Hark! there is the same quick, decided step that I have waited to hear so often in days that are past. A moment more and Willie is at my side. I look  at him and see an expression of delight I never : saw on his face before. I thought of his father,  when he looked for the first time on his first- -  born.   -256    Skencoe  Pcs7sonage.. .............  "Brother! Katie has loved me all these lotng years,-even those. years of sin and waywalrd-i ness! For my sake she has refused wealth andAx position, and would have carried this secret to her graitve had I not won itlfrom her by a Caulnk con- fession of my own unworthiness to win atnd-weare such a treasuve. God has biessed me beyond my deserts. I pray that I may be more worthy.'j I bowed my heads and WIlie prayed,' and -when I heard his voice, I. remembered ,what my husband repeated so often:       / "Have faith, Berthed The promise sis to you and to your children.") I recalledl the time also when I stooped to bear my cross8, and salid,- s "Thy will be done." I had 'played for spifitual blessings onlv, but God had added the richest earthly gifts, and T ' bowed down and worshiped with a' gratitude that  was silent only because it' was so deep. THE END.      
         
       
   
