
    ----CITATION----
        Sage, Robert F.. Charette .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7693
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Charette 
            
                 CHARETTE: A TALE "oers' Sorrows ani ttDir tangleb Nm." ALL MANKIND LOVES A LOVER."--Ralph Waldo Emerson.   G. W. Carleton &  Co., Pubishrers "ONDON: LOW'& CO. MDCCCLXXV.   COPYRIGHT, 1875, BY G. W. CARLETON & CO. JOHN F. TROW & SON, PRINTERS AND STEREOTYERS, 205-2z3 East I2tA St., NEW YORK.   CONTENTS. PAGE CHAPTER   I ...... ...........   .......    7 CHAPTER  ' II ...  .  .   . .........................  29 CHAPTER   III........................... ......... 52 CHAPTER   IV...................................... 80 CHAPTER   V ..............................     108 CHAPTER   VI...........  .....................  138 CEHAPTER  VII.......................a............. 168 CHAPTER VIII   .... .  ............................  194 CHAPTER    IX ..... ......  ......................... 213 CHAPTER   X    .... ............. ...... .... 236 CHAPTER   XI..........       .............. 271 CHAPTER   I................................   . 293 CHAPTER XIII ....................................  302 CHAPTER XIV .................................     322 *             -7      CHARETTE.  CHAPTER I. GROUP of young men, well dressed in the extreme of fashion of the day, were gathered in one of the large win- dows of the --  Club House, that look out upon Fifth Avenue, in the city of New York. Their conversation was'such as is usual when young men meet,-of dogs, of horses, of wine, of women, of the last yacht race, of a recent spurt. between two celebrated trotters on Harlem Lane, of a new dansesee of Bonner and Vanderbilts.' stables, of a recent beauty that had appeared in "fashion's world, perhaps of some exploit' at .the gaming table, or even in less reputable-haunts. From time to time they criticised the passers-by, men, women and equipages. "Yonder goes old "Tony Rich. He treads light. 'Tis said he made a cool quarter of a miillion on, that last squeeze in North-Western."    8        CHARUTT. .  , ' "S0o much the better for Archie Talbot. Arche i marries Ti7,ie Rich next week, and he is terribly hipped; his exploits with the Tiger have proved expensive." "That's a neat rig of Percy Poor's. That off mare is a fine stepper."  "You don't have such nobby turn-outs here, as one'sees in Hyde Park." "Oh! cut that, Tom, and don't try and play the Britisher here, because you have taken an English University degree; you can't hide the Yankee blood, and you ought not if you could. Remem- ber your patent of nobility dates from a Nan- tucket whale-ship, and hence is fishy." "You may brag, Tom, of British horses, but can London beat that in the woman line?" and the speaker pointed to a lady, exquisitely dressed in walking costume, who passed slowly on the opposite side of the street. Her step was slow, and she turned a timid look towards the windows of the Club House. Recognizing some of the young men of our group, she bowed slightly, i and then gave a searching glance at the other windows.  As she withdrew her last lingering look, an evident shade of disappointment gath- ered upon her beautiful countenance, and thus she passed from their sight. "By Jove!" said Tom, our American with   aHsPARETTE.     E     9 English manners, ' by Jove, she is a beauty who \ is she, lads?" "-Miss Merrifield-Miss Kate Merrifield-as fine a woman as treads God's earth; and yonder is the lout, I doubt not,.those beautiful eyes were seeking, and whose strange conduct caused that look of sadness." The last speaker was probably the most manly of the group of youths, and the warmth of his tone, and the look of antipathy he turned upon the man to whom he applied the opprobrious epi- thets, would seem to indicate that he had some deep feeling in the matter. The object of these remarks, though seated not far distant, either did not hear or did not heed them. He sat idle, his hat pulled over his brows, one or two magazines lying upon the table beside him, and a daily paper neglected upon his- knees. "Why," drawled Tom, " bless me! 'Tis Hugh Dymocke ; I have not seen him since my return. What ails the boy?" "Oh, no one knows. You know whathe once was-the gayest of the gay, always ready for fun or frolic, plenty of money, handsome, adored .by the women, liked by the men, engaged--or, if not- engaged, as good as engaged to this same Miss Merrifield, rich, beautiful, and evidently fond of   10        CHARETTE. him; when suddenly some few months since, without any apparent reason, he gave up society and became moody and morose. At first it was said he had lost heavily at play, then that Miss Merrifield hal jilted him; but both these suppo- sitions were soon proved false." "Another woman somewhere " suggested Tom. "Reckon not. Hugh is not wild that way. Miss Merrifield is the only girl I have ever known him 'spooney' on."  - "Wwellj I'll stir him up; we were old school- fellows, and I'll try what I can make of him," said Tom; and with a lazy gait he strolled to- wards Dymocke, and, laying his hand upon his shoulder, accosted him. "Why, Hugh, my boy, what welcome is this for an old friend. I have just returned after a four years' absence abroad, and here I have been in the room with you half an hour, and you have not noticed-me."' "Beg pardon," replied Hugh, stretching out hishand without altering his position. "Beg par- don ; ' my dull brain was wrought with things for- gotten.' Welcome, old friend! ':What make you from Wittenburgh?" . .. What! playing the melancholy Dane, Hugh? Give over; such mummery and shake, as if you were glad to see me."   CHARETTE.        " "I wear you in my heart's core-yea, in my heart of hearts." - "What means this, Hugh? Nay, knit not your brows. Friendship has its privileges, and I shall take them. I left you, IIugh, a few years since, a high-spirited lad; I have heard often of you since as gay and happy, and report spoke flatter- ingly of you as a man. I return to find all this changed; I hear that you shun society, that you avoid old friends or perhaps treat them with rudeness, and rumor says you even neglect the lady you profess to admire." "Rumor is apt to lie, Tom, but in this she speaks truth. I shun society, true; I've had my whack, and tired of it; there is nothing in it, Tom. I shun old friends, true; they bore me; I find better companions in books. As to the lady, idle rumor or gossip does ill to link her name so closely with mine, Admiration--and she is worthy of any man's admiration-with ine never ripened into love." "Well, Hugh, I must cure you of this folly. -Come with me to-night; I give a supper at Del- monico's to some old friends; join us, and we will drown your sorrows in Chateau Margaux." . "Although not much in the festive humor, I accept your invitation for 'Auld lang syne.'! Expect me at nine."        '   12        OHAR'Arj .  "Right! Richard is himself again! I want your company also, Hugh, in another venture. Some of us, old acquaintances of yours, propose to cut Newport and Saratoga, and go off some- where in the woods. None of us are skilled fishermen or shots, but we have heard other boys tell of roughing it, and we are disposed to see how it goes. Now this will be just the thing for. you, and you are just the man for us. Is it a bargain a " 'We will talk it over at supper. Till then adieu." With the past lives of these young men we are not interested, but a wordor two' of Dymocke is necessary. He early inherited a fortune, studied law, and was admitted to the Bar. There was a den somewhere in Nassau Street, with a tin sign on the door, on which was painted in gilt letters, HOUGH DYMOCImE, Attorney and Counsellor at Law, yet it was never known that he had had a client, or had taken a fee. He was fond of pleasure and of literature, and both tastes he cul- tivyed with assiduity. His law office gave indications of this. Upon the green cloth-covered table that stood in the   CHARETTE.        13 centre of the room, instead of briefs and dusty bundles of tape-bound papers, lay billets-doux and invitations to all sorts of entertainments, from a cock-fight in the Bowery, to a ball on Murray Hill. Few volumes of law calf were seen upon the shelves, but specimens -of the light literature of all lands--novels, poetry, essays. But he had one strange hobby, one more conso- nant with the 'nature of delicate women than with that of a rough-handed, muscular-armed man. This was a fancy for laces. His father had been extensively engaged in the lace trade; was a stockholder in some of the largest Belgian manufactories, and their factor in lNeew York. After his death, Hugh had spent some time in Belgium settling the estate. This gave him an opportunity to .study the manufacture of this delicate fabric, and he soon became fascinated with it. He visited every factory of note, and studied the machinery, more wonderful and deli- cate than the finest chronometer, on which these fabrics are wrought. ie penetrated- into Irish hovels and French cottages, to watch pale-faced women at work on that marvellously fine hand lace, in the making of which, the touch is more depended on than sight. Hence, lace to him had a deeper signifi- cance than to many.   "       OBIARETTE. Women' of fine and. delicate sensibilities al- most always have a fancy for lace, but it is for its actual beauty, for its dainty and elegant tex- ture, resembling the fairy touches of the Frost King upon the window-pane.   But Dyinocke had all these feelings, and more. To him lace Xta  I romance. If in the ball-room he saw clasp the neck of beauty, a delicate collar of Valciennes or gMechn ; whilst others admired only its beauty, or perhaps still imore the beauty that it adorned, his thoughts would wander off to the fair land in which it was manufactured and loom and factory rose before him; and perhaps some pale sweet face that he had seen theyet-with its tired, hopeless look, would rise like a spectre in the gay scene; arid a cloud would rest upon his brow, and a sadness come over him, that people would wonder why Dymocke was sad when others were so happy. ,This .strange passion led to an adventure, the result of which is interwoven with this history. Kate Merrifield's twentieth birthday drew near. His relations with this fair lady were most intimate, and if he was not actually an acknow- ledged lover, his attentions at least had reached that point, that she unhesitatingly accepted frozm him rich gifts. This birthday was to be made the occasion of   CHARETTE.       15 a grand fete, and the world of fashion was agog with preparation. Casting about for some present suitable for the occasion, Dym'ocke's thoughts naturally turned towards the fabrics he so much admired, and he determined, if possible, to present, as his birth- day gift, laces finer far, than any ladv in the land could boast.  With this intent, he searched every store in New York, but found nothing that equalled his wishes; and he was about giving up in despair, when, one  day, on emerging from Stewart's, where he had spent many hours in a last effort to find what would gratify his whim, his arm -was touched by a German Jew, who said, "Mister Dymocke, you vant some fine lace? come vith me: I can suit you." Dymocke laughed. "I   was not aware my wishes had become  a thing of rumor; still I fear, my  good sir, you can scarce show me any- thing that will suit my present needs." "You don't know; you colme vith me and see. Hush  Stoop down  and let me visper in your ear. I have some point antique de Venise!" Dymocke again smiled. He knew well this famous lace, almost unknown on this side of the Atlantic, and he had no idea there was any in the Jew's possession; but with an idle curiosity   16        CHA:. ETE. to see what he would attempt to palm off ill place of it, he determined to pursue the adven- ture to a close, so requesting the Jew to lead the way, he followed him into a Fourth Avenue car from which they emerged somewhere in the neighborhood of Catharine Street. Down this dreary thoroughfare they plunged till they came to a clothing store, lnothing differing from manyr others in the same locality. Here the Jew paused and stopped, as if but examining the goods displayed in the doorway and windows, then glancing up and down the street, he entered. Dymocke followed. Passing through the Store, to the occupants of which he nodded recognition, the Jew led the way to a flight of stairs in the rear, down which they descended. Here they found themselves in a small room, but dimly lighted by two small windows. These the Jew carefully closed, effectually excluding all -light, and then striking a match lighted the gas. On one side of the room hung a lot of second- hand clothing, dust-covered and moth-eaten. Some of these the Jew removed, disclosing a door in the wall. Taking a key from his pocket,  he soon had this door open, through which he dis- appeared for a few moments, but soon returned, bearing in his hands a tin case, such as pedlers are accustomed to carry suspended from their   CHARETTE.       17 shoulders. From this he produced some truly exquisite lace, Honiton, Valenciennes and Point Applique, but artfully mixed with them all were many pieces of imitation well calculated to deceive,-but not one so versed in the fabric as Hugh. He examined in silence all the Jew had to show, who was voluble in praise of his wares, and when he could produce nothing more, Hugh turned from them contemptuously, and laying his hand roughly on the Israelite's arm, exclaimed angrily, "You told me you had some 'point antique de Venise; ' do you think to palm this smuggled trash off upon me, for that famous workmanship for which princes vie?" "No, no, no! I beg ten tousand pardons! Oh, Father Abraham! how  suspicious -these Christians are! I only showed you these first; but I have de Yenise. Yes, I have de Venise. But can't you use some of these? They are very fine. I sell them very sheap." o "No, I don't want them. I can buy such as these anywhere, and I prefer to trade with regu- lar dealers; but if you have anything that they have not, such as the point antique de Venise that you talk about, produce it." The Jew sighed as he found he could not dis- pose of the wares he had offered, opened the   18    .    oHARfrTE.  door that led to the stairway by which they had descended, drew a whistle from his pocket, and on it sounde& a call. A boy soon answered the summons, and the Jew bade? him send Miss Jacqueline to him.. While awaiting her appearance he busied himn- self replacing the laces in the tin case, and ceased not to call attention to the beauty of each piece as he laid it away. Before he had finished, the door opened, and Miss Jacqueline entered. Hugh sprang to his feet, and raising his hat bowed as he would have done to a princess. To him it seemed as if that dark, mildewed, cobwebbed room was suddenly- glorified. This young girl, radiant in youth, health and beauty, seemed indeed like some fairy, and all things changed at her approach. Her dress was a neat walking costume, which showed to advantage a, trim, well-shaped figure. From beneath her jockey hat, which was worn with something of a coquettish air, a pair of dark eyes shone, full of youthful fire; her complexion, a. dark warm brunette, seemed to indicate some foreign blood; 'and the smile that played about a full rosy mouth was calculated to excite emotions in a heart far, less susceptible than that which beat in Dymocke's breast. "Did you send for me, Monsieur Moses," she   OHAREfl'T.       19 asked, in tones whose silvery sweetness well suited the portal from which they issued. "I did, Miss Jacqueline. This young shentle- man wished to see the Idice, the beautiful lace, the point antique de Venise that you have. Ah! mine dear sir, now you shall see the most exquisite thing your eyes ever beheld!" "I see it already," said Hugh, bowing to Jac- queline. A deep and almost painful blush over- spread her features at this compliment, and it was evident at once to Hugh that she was unaccus- tomed to flattering speeches from young men. Recovering herself quickly, however, Jacque- line took from a small travelling-bag that hung upon her armn a package containing several pieces of lace, and handed it to Dymocke, who at once saw that he had found that of which he was in search. This was indeed the true point antique de Venise, the rarest and most costly lace now known to the world, the manufacture of which is obsolete, and hence its rarity; but it is not this alone that constitutes its value, but the beauty and delicacy of the workmanship, with which mnodern skill seems unable to vie. It is much sought after by the monarchs and princes of Europe, and also by the high dignitaries of the Romish Church, with which to trim their sacer- dotal garments.   20        CHARETTE., O ifaeg your pardon, Mr. Moses," said Dymocke, "for doMbtingyour word; this is indeed the true point antique de Yenise, and if we can agree upon the price I should like to purchase it." "Yes, yes, yes," said the Jew, rubbing his hands, "I knew we should please the young shen- telman; but you know, my young friend, this lace is very costly-very rare, therefore, good Mr. Dy- mocke, we shall have to ask a pretty high price; but I know you will think it sheap. You can have all this for ten tousand dollars!  Before Hugh could answer, Miss Jacqueline spoke: "You exceed your commission, Mr. Moses; the price you were bid to take was five thou- sand." "Father Abraham!" exclaimed the Jew, rais- ing his hand in astonishment. "'Father Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob! you mistake, good Miss Jac- queline. I had the price from--" "Hush!" said Jacqueline, with a gesture of warning, and at the same time of impatience; "Iinow the price; if Mr. Dymocke is pleased to give five thousand dollars for this rubbish, it is his." "I take it gladly; I have a passion, Miss Jac- queline, for this sort of thing; besides, I have a very particular use for it."   CHARETTE.       21 "A gift to some lady fair, I presume," she re- plied, smiling. "Well, I trust it may rest upon a happy heart." "I have not the money by me to pay you, Mr, Moses," said Dymocke; " can you send some one with me to my banker's a l "I cannot go myself    rve business, and there is no one here I can trust with so much moneys. Let me see-suppose Miss Jacqueline goes with you. Do you think you could find your way back, my dear?" "I will undertake to see the young lady safely home, if you will trust her with me." "Very goot. Now, my dear, you are all dressed for a walk; you vill go vith goot Mr. Dymocke to his banker's, and he vill give you five tousand dollars. Then you vill give him the lace that I vill do up in a neat package; then you vill be very particular not to lose the moneys, and come back here." Jacqueline bowed acquiescence, and receiving from Moses the package, handed it at once to Dy- mocke. The Jew looked as though he thought this giving possession of the goods before the money was in hand, as a rather venturesome pro- ceeding, but as he had acquainted himself pretty well with the standing of his customer before he had accosted him for the very purpose of making   22        OHARETTE. this bargain, he quickly banished all feeling of suspicion from his mind. Hugh and his companion threaded their way through that sweet thoroughfare, Chatham Street, to the Park Bank. He soon discovered that this was Miss Jacqueline's first visit to the great me- tropolis, and though she was very reticent as to her past history, he judged from chance expres- sions that fell from her lips, that she had been reared in more rural scenes. As they stood upon the steps of the Park Bank, whose magnificent fagade towered above them, and gazed upon the ever-moving throng that surged through Broad- way, and at the imposing piles of architecture that met the eye in every direction, expressions of surprise, wonder, and admiration passed over her speaking countenance. Hugh, willing to pro- long the interview, pointed out each object of interest, and then said: "As you seem a stranger here, Miss Jacqueline, if you will accept my poor escort, it will give me great pleasure to'show  you something of our city, of which we 'native  here' are perhaps unduly proud." "I shotild like it above all things," replied Jac- queline, " only I mustl be back by nightfall." Hugh took from his pocket a card, and writing directions to his groom to bring his drag at once to Delmonico's, gave it to a messenger standing   COARETTE.       23 by, with orders to see it delivered with dispatch. Then entering the bank, the money part of the transaction was soon concluded. "Now, Miss Jacqueline, we will go for a little luncheon. By the time we have finished, my wagon will be on hand, and then for a turn in the Park." Wending their way to Delmonico's, on the corner of Broadway and Chambers Street, they were soon seated in a cozy little room, and before them was spread an appetizing lunch. Many men would have wondered that a young and beautiful girl like Jacqueline, should so unreservedly trust herself with an entire stranger; but no such thoughts had Hugh. He was too pure himself to imagine evil, or to sup- pose that any could suspect it of him. The lunch over, Hugh handed Miss Jacqueline into his drag, which stood at the door, and they were soon whirling away towards Central Park. The day was perfect, with its clear sky and cool, bracing wind. Hugh's heart was gay, and it beat with a thrill of exquisite pleasure all unknown before. His feelings seemed even to be communicated to his steeds, and they trod the earth as if disdaining it. What Miss Jacqueline's natural disposition may have been-whether gay or sad, Hugh knew , , ,..   24        CHARETTE. not-but there was no sadness now. Hler eyes flashed merriment, a smile was ever on her lips, and an. alminost childish glee welled up as from lier very heart, and found utterance at her mouth. -Hgh pointed out each object of interest that presented itself: the elegant stores on Broadway, the almost regal residences of Fifth Avenue,- and then into the Park. Jacqueline seemed more familiar with nature in her wilder moods, andc had never imagined aught like this, where art has so adorned and improved nature. Each scene that presented itself seemed more beautiful than the last. Then the frequenters of this fairy scene-the gay equipages of the wealthy, filled with youth, beauty, and fashion, and the sylvan nooks where the sons of toil with their wives and little ones enjoyed an unaccustomed holiday, and drank in health and pleasure with every breath.  O! happy, happy, happy day for these two young hearts! To Hugh the leaves of the Park had never before seemed so green, the air so redolent of perfume, the sunshine so bright, the songs of the birds so musical. To Jacqueline all was novelty and surprise. Chatting and laughing, they came suddenly upon a party of equestrians. Among them was Miss Merrifield. N   CHARETTE.       2.5 Recognizing HuHghl she bowed graciously, and thenl glanced at his'companion. Dymocke re- turned the salutation, and suddenly it seemed as if all icy hand had been laid upon his heart, as he noted' the look of wonderment on that fair face as she glanced at Jacqaleline. "What a beautiful woman 1 ' exclaimed Hugh's companion. "I never saw any one so handsome. A friend of yours, Mr. Dymocke a Yes. "Some relative, perhaps." "No, but a valued friend."' "Perhaps 'tis she who will wear the point antique de Venise 2 " "You guess well, Miss Jacqueline; it ts in- tended as a birthday gift for Miss Merrifield." Has the sun suddenly gone under a cloud? Have the birds all gone to their nests? Are the flowers all frost-stricken? Some sudden change seems to have taken place, for the bright happy look on Jacqueline's face has passed away) and she is as silent as her companion. This mood did not last long, however, and soon both were seemingly as merry as ever. The shades of nighlk had fallen as- they drove up in front of the little clothing shop in Catha- rine Street. Moses was pacing the pavement in evident anxiety. "My dears, my dears," he ex- 9          ,   26        CHARETrE. claimed, as they alighted; "where have you been? Have you the monies, M:iss Jacqiqe- line " "Certainly," she replied; " and Mr. Dymocke has very kindly been showing me some of the beauties of the city." "Ito, ho, but you did very wrong, my dear; but never mind, the monies is all righllt, praise be to Abraham. Good-night, Mr. Dymnocke." "Good-night, Mr. Moses, and good-night, Miss Jacqueline. I shall be here to-morrow at tenl o'clock, to escort you to the yacht race," said Hugh; then springing into his wagon, he drove rapidly, away. Punctually the next morning, Ilugh was at the clothing shop. Some men were busy re- moving the sign that hung over the door. On entering, he could recognize no one that he had seen the day before. He inquired of a young man in attendance for Mr. Moses. The young iman had no know- ledge of suchl a person. His employers, Ripinski & Bro., had yesterday bought out the stock of Greenbaum & Son, the former occupants, and he was there in possession. "But," said Hugh, "I left Mr. Moses here last night, and with hiln a young lady. Cannot you tell me something of thein 2 "   CHaRETTE.        27 "No; I came here this morning, and have seen no one of that description." "Wheire 'can I find the former occupants, G-reenbaum & Son?" "I cannot say; I understood they were about leaving'for California, to start in business there." It is needless to pursue the conversation. Jac- queline had disappeared, leaving not a trace be- hind'. Hugh sought her by every means in his power for weeks and months in vain, till he gave up the search as useless. 3But her image had left an impress upon his heart, which nothing could efface.  A settled melancholy came over him, against which he strove in vain. Unfortunately, his circumstances were such that there was no ne- cessity for work, and he simply brooded over his love. The-yacht race, to which he had invited Jac- queline, came off, and the world of fashion was there, but the sails of Hugh's yacht flapped idly in the wind, and her pennant lay upon the snowy deck, waiting for the appearance of her coin- mander, to be given to the breeze; but he came !lot, and the crew and the assembled friends that he had invited, saw the gay, fleet depart, wonder- ing what had detained so famous a yachtsman as ugh Dymocke. Miss Merrifield's birthday party came off in   28        CK HARl-Vrl'. due time, and she was regal in her loveliness and in. her robes, for her' dress was trimmed with Hugh's gift of the point antiqule de Venise; but as the evening wore on and the hours deepenled into midnight, and HIugh came not, a feeling of desolation came over her, and she could searce re- frain from tearing off his gift and trampling it beneath her feet. And so afterwards, day by day, and week by- week, she saw Hugh grow more cold and distant, alld knew not the cause; although a strong suspi- cioll calne upon her that the stranger lady she had seen with him in the Park was at -the" bottom of it all. But this she concealed in her own bosom.   CIHAPTER II. T the supper to which Vance had invited Dymocke, a fishing and hunting excur- sion was planned, and the conlduct of the saime entrusted to our hero. As usual in such cases, all present were eager for it, but when the party assembled on the deck of the Dean Rich. nooned, on a beautiful afternoon in July, Dymocke found the number had dwindled down to four- himself, Vance, Cecil Carew, a young lawyer, and Herbert Stanhope, merchant. A  goodly supply of preserved meats, wines, and cigars had been forwarded to Alexandria Bay, in the State of New  York. There our friends soon overtook them; and engaging their boats with their oarsmen, transported themselves and provisions to a sequestered island, one of the famous Thousand, that dot the broad bosom of the- fair St. Lawrence. There life resembled more a perpetual picnic,   30        CHEA2RETTE. than the " roughing it" that Vance had proposed to Dymocke. Beneath the shelter of their Sibley tents, they slept as soundly as upon their accustomed hair mat- tresses; they rose late, when a well-cooked bleak- fast, of fresh fish and coffee, awaited them. A pipe or cigar followed, and then the day's work begau, which consisted in sitting quiet and at ease on cushioned seats in a tight boat, while the oarsman rowed thema about amid those lovely islands, theig onlly exertion being to occasionally pull in a fool- ish fish, which without any effort of theirs had contrived to fasten itself upon a spoon or squid that trolled along at the stern of the boat. Dy- tocke, more of a sportsman than the others, had furnished himself with a reel and flies, and de- \oted himself to bass fishing. The Oswego or I black bass found in the St. Lawrence take readily to the fly, and are very gamey. This gave Dymocke some good sport, anid tended in some measure to divert his thoughts. Generally about meridian they all met upon some neighboring island, where an excellent lunch was eatenl, washed down with a glasg or more of cooled claret or iced champagne- Another smoke, a doze on the grass un der the trees; and then home again, in the same lazy way. Aud then in the evening, until deep into the llight, theyfsat,   CHARETTE.        31 these young men, beneath the stars, and smoked and talked, and thought and sung ; and the world seemed faraway, and their thoughts became more pure, perhaps more loly; and although, per- chance, the evening commenced with gay shgs and idle badinage, as the night deepened, the con- versatiol assumed a more serious tone, and the songs a sadder strain. A week or more of this sort of life had passed with no incident Worthy of special mention, wheln one day as Dymocke was out bass-fishing, his oars'man, who had been ailing for some days, gave out, and said he must put into the bay, where Dymocke could supply   himself with another boat and oarsman,. Tatning the prow of their boat in that direction, however, they encountered another boat rmowed by a young lad. Hailing the stranger, Dymlocke, after some parley, induced him to take him   onboard, and to row him to the island where- his party was encamped; Dymocke's boatman promising, if he could not return hilnself oil the morrow, to send another in his place. The lad seemed not over fifteen years of age, but as his boat was light, and as he evidently understood the mallage- ment of his oars, Dymocke's homeward progress bade fair to-be full as rapid as before. Hugh's attention was attracted towards the   32        CHARnjEYE. tranger. He was singularly haildsome, and rmasses of dark wavy hair hung down to his Shoulders. IIis dress was qluite picturesque com- pared with that usually worn by'lads of his age. The small straw hat that he wore was bound with a bright-colored riblbol, the ends of which. reached half way down his back; and instead of coat or jacket, he wore a neat blouse confined at the waist by a belt, and reaching to his knees. Round his neck was a ribbon fastened in a bow in front,andld corresponding in color with that upon his h. The two soon fell into conversation, and Dymocke found the lad was well acquainted with these islands and the waters adjacent. The boy took some pains to point out the beauti- ful and striking views that presented themselves, sometimes deviating considerably from a direct course in order to do so. He called himself Jacques; said his home was on the Canada side, but that he had friends living on some of the islands, where he passed a portion of his time. There was something about the boy that attracted Dymocke strangely, and he tried to engage him to act as his oarsmnan for the remain- der of the time his party should remain in the neighborhood. But this Jacques firmly refused- said he had other affairs to attend to--that he was   CTHARETTE.       33 not a professional oarsman, etc.; but finally, at Dymnocke's earnest solicitation, promised to come on the mnorrow and row him over to the village of Clayton, where he wished to replenish his book of flies. Reaqhincg their, island Dymocke invited his colnpanion to supper; this the boy declined, and before Dymocke could get out his wallet to pay him for his work, had pushed off into the strealn, and was soon lost to sight behind -a bend -in the land. The following morning betimes, Jacques and his boat were on hand. It was a long row from the calnp to Clayton, but somehow the time seemed to pass rapidly to Dymocke, alld lie could scarce believe that it was long past meridian when they reached their destination. Each had taken turns at the oars and the rod, for they beguiled the way with angling, and Jacques proved himself no novice at the art, casting the fly with skill, and landing his fish neatly. After dining with mine host of the Johnson House, the two started out to make the desired puirchases, and Jacques led the way to a store, where lie thought could be found some flies that would prove enticing to bass. It was a country store,-containing a little of everything. At the door hung some oil-cloth suits and ready-made clothillng, that somehow reminded Dvlnocke of 2*   34 ,       CHARETTE. the little shop - in Catharine Street. Here Dymocke found a fair assortment of lines and flies, and was busy making his selections, when his attention was attracted by a voice that pro- ^ ceeded from a sinall room -partitioned off in tile rear of the building, and which was called the office. "Father Abrahaln!" were the -words Dy)mocke heard. "But I tell you it must be done at once ; ,when the toiles were suddenly lowered, and he could 11eal no more.  But he had heard enough to ralkb him certain he had heard the voice before, and that it was the voice of Moses.  To still further assure himself, however, he strolled leisurely towards the office, as if examiniig the wares displayed upon shelves and counters, till throullgh a wilndow in the partition he caught a glimpse of the back of a man in close conversation with three or four rough-looking characters, and this back was the back 'of Moses. He saw no lnore, for a curtain was suddenly dropped over the window, but he -was satisfied; and quick as'thought his imagilla- tion wrought out this theorv. Moses was in league with a band of smugglers, and along tli s shore of the St. Lawrence they conducted their operations. Then a pang shot through his heart as he -thought of Jacqiuelinle. So young, so fair,   CHARETTE.        35 consorting with such characters. But the thought must be put away. Here was a clue, which, properly followed up, might lead to her, and he must see her again. At once he resolved upon his course. He would returnl to his friends, make some excuse for leaving tlem, and then take rooms at one of the hotels of this village of Clayton, and after- wards be guided by-events. iHe turned to where he had left Jacques stand- ing, to order him at once to return; but the boy was not to be seen. Completing and paying for his selection, of flies and lines, he-sought. hhn at the hotel, but in vain. Then he strolled down to the beach where the boat was left, but not only was Jacques still invisible, but his boat also. Dyymocke could only wait. A large vessel lavy at anchor in-the stream directly opposite where he stood, and by alnd bye from behind the vessel Jacques altd his boat appeared.- Dymocke signalled the lad, and as soon as he was within speaking distance, ordered him somewhat sharply to prepare to. return. To this Jacques seemed nothing loath, and as soon as Dymocke was embarked, he gave all his strength to his oars, and the village of Clayton 4d   36       'CHAEETTEJ. was soon far in the distance. By this time it was near nightfall, and it was evident they must be "borrowers of the night.' It was an even- ing that lived long afterwards in Dylnocke's memory. Perhaps it was that, having discovered the whereabouts of Moses, he had now some in- centive to exertion that wrought the change. Certain it is that all the mists and--clouds that seemed to shroud his mind had disappeared, and all his old buoyancy- and elasticity of spirit returned. And there seemed to be a change in his companion also; at least Dy3mocke seemed to think so.  As the twilight deepened into night, and the garish light of day was supplanted by the milder and more uncertain light of the rising moon, a species of. bashfulness Dymocke had noted in the boy--a hardly defilled shrinking whenever Dyvmoeke approached or looked at him atten- tively-seemed to pass away, and a, more inti- mate and freer intercourse was established be- tween them. In the conversation that took place during that long sail, the boy exhibited a mind matured far beyond what his' years would indicate, and an acquaintance with both French and English literature that surprised and puzzled Dynmocklc   CHARETTE.        87 The night was so beautiful, and all around so peaceful and lovely, that Dymocke bade Jacques row. slowly that they might prololg the pleasure. By and by a light and favoring breeze sprallg up, and Dymocke having nloticed that there was a sail rolled up in the bottom of the boat, insisted upon setting it. It was but a rude affair, but it served its purpose. Givinig up the oars there- fore) these two seated themselves in' the stern of the boat, Dymocke guiding it with an (arl. I-ow, peaceful and quiet was the scene! Scarce a sound was heard, save the ripple of waters be- neath the bows of the boat, or an occasional screaming. of a night-bird. "How the soft moonlight enhances the beauty of this scene!" said Dymocke; 'somehow it recalls that exquisite scene in the "Merchant of Venice," where, the action of the play fillished, and all the high-wrought feelings of the aiudi- ence subdued, the poet introduces Lorenzo and Jessica, seated in the moonlight, talking of their love." '"I have often wondered," said Jacques, "if the scenery aitd adjuncts of the stage increased one's interest in Shakespeare. When I read his wonderful delineations, all the scenes and bir- cumstances are before Ine: I actually see what the poet is describing. So I have thought that any   38        CHnAETTE.   T attempt to portray them upon the- stage would rather detract from than heighten the effect upon the imagination." "It is often thus," replied Dymocke; "yet there is no doubt the' depiction of passioin 1)y men -and women of true genlius opens a lnew\ illsight into those wonderful delineatiklls. But this is not a scene to recall tumultuous emlotiolls; here one would seem to be free from passiolls incident to a stirring city life." "Seemingly only," said Jacques. "Even here they exist, and bear their fruit as elsewhere." "What passions'are these?" "Greed and avarice, love of gain, law break- ing, and dishonesty." "It seems scarcely possible," replied Dymoclke. "I thought all living hereabouts were peaceful fishermen or tillers of the soil, with no thought save how to fill the larder or replenish a scanlty wardrobe." "See you yon narrow strait between two islands " said Jacques; "the wind favors us. See if your skill will enable us to pass through it without the assistance of the oars." Dymocke pointed the boat in the direction indicated, and soon they found thelmselves in a narrow channel that separated two islalds. '"Hlere," said Jacqttes, " is the dividing-line   CHARETTE.        39 between two nations. Had we the oars out, we could dip one in American, the other in Cana- dian waters. Think you the facilities this region offers for a trade too profitable as the contraband, will not-be taken adsvantage-of by men of doubt- ful morals 'f It was to these I more partic- ularly alluded in what I said a moment since." "- Do you know any of these people?" "I -have seen some." "I wish you would bring me to some of them; I have a most particular reason for wishing it." "Oh! M[r. Dymnocke, I beg you will hlave nothing to do wit]h themn. They can do you no good, and lnight prove dangerous."' "I have no fears. In short, my heart, my life, my all, is enlisted in a search in which some of these men may materially aid me. And if you, my lad, who are familiar with this region, call and will assist me, I shall owe you a debt of grati- tude which I would pay with half-- my. fortune;" and in his earnestness he laid his halnd upou the lad's shoulder. Jacques let it rest there for a moment without replying; then gently removing it said, "I might aid you, in this, Mr. Dymocke, but I qmuzst not. And oh! I beg of you at once to depart hence. If these men find you are seeking them, they   40        CHARETTE. will at once suspect you of some design upon their trade, and there is more than one among them, who would not hesitate even at murder, if he thought his safety depended upon it." "Iri comparison with the object I have in view," replied Dy mocke calmly, "I hold not my life at a phi's fee." "I know not why," he con- tinued, "but I -am going to make you-a mere boy, a stranger--my confidant; but there is some- thing in your face to-night, as I see it here in the moonlight, that recalls one inexpressibly dear to me. What I am now about to tell Sou is a seceret, heretofore locked close in my own heart." And then he told this stranger the story of his love; and in passionate, burning words, spoke of the bright being who had flitted for a moment across his path, only to disappear -forever. Then of his recognizing the Jew Moses, and how with this faint clue he was determined to seek till-lie found the lost Jacqueline. As the tale proceeded, Jacques was visibly affected, and as Dymocke spoke of his love, lle bowed his head in his hands and trembled violently. "And now, my child,' continued Dymocke, "you know why I am determined upon this search. But I was wrong to think of invol ving you in it. I can readily see that, living here   CHARETTE.       41 upon the border, it might prove; dangerous to you.2" Jacques raised his head. There was a tear in his eye, but a smile on his lip. "I said, Mr. Dymocke, I might be able to assist you. Give me your word that you will make no move until I see you again, and I will endeavor to do so." "-I cannot: Moses may slip away. 1No, I must about it to-morrow." "I beg of you! I may be of mnore service than you think. I promise to see you to-morrow, and if then I do not show good cause for furtlher delay, I will say no -more." Dymocke gave the desired promise, and as he did so, the keel of the boat grated upon the sands, near where the tents of the encampment shone pale in the moonlight. Dymocke tried to induce the lad to come ashore and rest for the night, but this he de- clined-said he   mnust sail all night about Dymdeke's butsiness. "Hallo, Dynmocke! Hlad a  good time, old boy?" was Vance's salutations he entered his tent. "Ought to have been with us! Lots of wine, and pretty girls! Oh! I forgot: you are a misanthrope, and have cut. women. You see, Carew and I grew tired of this everlasting pick-   42      M, OHAEETTE. erel fishing, and then our stupid boatman forgot the wine, so we pulled over to the Bay. Het Archie Talbot there, and Mrs. Archie. Splendid creature Mrs. Archie! Got lot of girls with her-all coming here to-morrow for luncheon. Will bring the croqucet along, and have a game under the trees. So put on your best clothes in the mnorning, old fellow, for we must do the thing genteelly." Dymnocke growled; he was not much in humor for society. It was fully eleven the next morning before the expected visitors arrived. In the meantime, Tom Vance and Herbert Stanhope had busied themselves in making every preparation ill their power for a proper entertainment of their guests. Dymocke and Carew appeared too much occu- pied with their own thoughts to give them much assistance. Dymocke, lighting a cigar, early took his seat at the foot of a large beech-tree, from whece he commanded a view up and down the river, and impatiently watched for the return of Jacques. Carew also seemed impatient, and his glance would alternately wander from Dymlnocke to the direction from which Archie Talbot and friends would come. "Can it be," he muttered to himself, "that Dymocke still has a fancy for Miss Merrifield 1   CIIARETTE.       43 He seems nervous ald anxious, and is evidently impatient for her arrival."' Now it clhaneed that Dymocke had not the slightest idea that Miss Merrifield was expected, or that she was within a-hundred mi-iles of hilm, So occupied was lie with his own thoughts, that lhe scarcely lleard Tom Vance, as in a rather maudlin way, the night previous, he had related his day's adventure. How he and Carew had been to the Bay ; how there they had met Archie Talbot, who, with his bride, had been making a tour of the watering-places; how Archie having promised Lizzie on their wedding day never more to touch a card, found these same watering-- places deuced stupid, and how, in a fit of despe- ration, le had proposed to his wife a fishing ex- cursion to the St. Lawrence ; how solme three or four sensible young girls had proposed to joill, them; and how thus Archie now found hilnself travelling about the country withl tlese flth- fledged young women on his hlands, his young wife acting as chaperone; and that one of these young ladies was Miss Merrifield. All this Vance had told, Dymocke as he was stripping for bed. But Dymocke's mind was "wool gathering," and he heard scarce a word of it, farther than that they were to expect some lady visitors. i    "        CHARETTE. Miss Merrifield was equally ignorant that she would meet Dymocke. She had seeni Carew the day previous, and he had presented Valce; but in speaking of his companions he had not once mentioned our hero. We may as well tell it right here: Carew was enamored of Miss Merrifield, and consequently jealous of Hugh. It' was he who had applied the reproachful terms to Dymocke at the club room. Since then he had pressed his suit. Miss Merrifield had given him little encouragemient --her heart was too sore for that yet; buit she would have been less than woman, had not the attention of one every way so eligible as Cecil Carew, brought some balm to the wound pro- duced by a faithless lover. Thus it was, that as a barge filled with gayly-dressed ladies, and pro- pelled by two stalwart boatmen, approached the island, Hugh had no tlought of Miss Ilerri- field, but out of courtesy to the expected guests, he joined the other gentlemen at the landing, to Welcome thelnm. Miss Merrifield's back was towards the shore as they approached, and thus it chanced that her foot was on the gunwale of the boat, when their eyes first met, and they simultaneously recognized each other. Cecil Carew was standing with outstretched hands to assist her to the shore.   CHARETTE.       45 Something of the old feeling, or the remem- brance of the old time, must have come upon Dymocke, which led him to press before Carew, and proffer his assistance. "Excuse me, MV. Dymocke," said Carew, "you are over forward! this is my duty."- "And when did Cecil Carew acquire the right to take precedence of Hugh Dymocke in atten- tions to Miss Merrifield " returned Dynmocke, angrily. And the two stood glaring at each other, while Miss Merrifield's feet rested in a somewhat precarious position upon the side of the boat. "So, gentlemen," she exclaimed, laughiilg, "while you are disputing, I am like to fall to the ground. But I can cut the Gordian knot. MVy young lad, will you lend me your hand?." Thus appealed to, our young friend Jacques, who had landed upon another part of the island and had approached unperceived while the gen- tlemen were watching the barge, bounded for- ward, and extending,his hand to Miss Merrifield, landed her safely upon the beach. As he did this, he cast a look so full of roguish mirth upon the two disappointed suitors, that the whole com- pany gave a shout of laughter, and good-humor was apparently restored. Dymocke was now all impatience to have an interview with Jacques, but this the boy seemed   "  ;      CIIARETTE. in no haste to granlt. On the contrary, he ap- peared inclined to continue his attentions to Miss Merrifield. ".T-Iaving favored me by accepting so slight a service at my hands," he said, " will you not, fair lady, allow me to be your cavalier for a space . These gentlemen can come at any time, and bask in the sunshine of your eyes, and gaze upon your wondrous beauty; to an hnmble lad like myself sulchl a chance is the event of a lifetime." I "Why, my boy," replied the lady, laughing, "you are a born courtier. ' Beshrew the strip- ling! He will be dangerous when'his beard is grown. , "You will have to wait long for that, made- moiselle; meanwhile, shall we not stroll about this island ' it will refresh yon after your long sitting, and I can show you all its beauties. , "'Show thee e jay's nest, and instruct thee how  To snare the nimble marmoset; I'll bring thee To clust'ring filberds, and sometimes I'll get thee Young scamels from the rock.'"  "It would be hard to resist such tempting offers," replied Miss Merrifield, entering into the spirit of the joke. "So lend me your arm, for the ground seems not over smooth; " and glancing back, smil- ing at the two discomnfited gentlemen, whllo seemed   CHARETTE.    '   47 struck dumb by the audacity of the boy, she took his arm, and - both soon disappeared in the wood. By this time the gentlemen had greeted the other ladies of the party. "There is little we call offer in the way of amusement," said Vance. "Our time here is mostly spent in slnolkillg, dream- ing, and eating and drinki." "That word 'drinking' has a pleasant sound," said Mrs. Archie Talbot, "for I am dying of thirst." "Come, then, one and all," said Vance, " and seat yourselves under yonder oak, and a glass of cool claret aild a biscuit shall refresh you while luncheoln is preparing."  Accordingly, all were soon reclinilln upon the green sward beleath the shade of an umbrageous oak, sipping their wine. With the exception of - yiocke, whose thoughts were a little distraught, -alld Carew, who- was somewhat vexed, all were merry, and mirth and jollity prevailed. After a little, Miss Merrifield and her companionl joined the group, anld she commenced with a. pleasant badinage, to exult over the other ladies of the party on having won the attentions of so young and gallant a cavalier. Dymocke could hardly realize that this was the same bashful lad who the day before would scarce raise his eyes from the ground. He joined in the   48        CIARErTT:E. conversation with the ladies without hesitation, and his wit was so keen and his replies so apro- pos, that he at once became a favorite with them all, who, seeing in him only a boy, lavished upon him attentions that made the hearts of the gen- tlemen of the party beat with envy. For awhile Dymocke sat a listener, without taking any part in the conversation; but at length, perceiving that Jacques purposely avoided giving him a private interview, and thoroughly ashamed of himself that he should thus allow his private griefs to interfere with the general hilarity, with an effort he shook off his apathy, and taking a seat in the midst of the group, gave full play to those conversational powers he possessed in no ordinary degree. Cecil Carew had thrown him- self on the grass at Miss Merrifield's feet, and Jacques hovered about her, seemingly attracted by her wondrous beauty, which far surpassed that of the other ladies of the party. What devil it was that induced Hugh to interfere with this most sat- isfactory arrangement, it is impossible to say. No spark of his old love for Miss Merrifield re- mainied. His heart--his whole thoughts, were full of Jacqueline. Yet now, when he saw Kate accepting with seeming pleasure the attentions of other gentlemen, he mentally reproached her for her ickleness in so soon forgetting him.   CHABRImVr.        49 Gradually he turned his attentions to her. At first she seemed startled, then pleased; the love in her heart had not expired; the fire burned low, but the embers were there, though covered with ashes. Again she listened to the music of his voice. She forgot Carew-she forgot Jacques-- and the hope sprang into her heart that per- chance she could "lure this gentle tercel back again." More and more pointed became his attentions; more and more pleased the object of them; and a feeling of pride for which he de- tested himself, swelled his heart as he saw he still held the first place in the esteem of this sweet lady. At length he awoke to a conlscious- ness of his actions. Starting up, he found that Jacques had disappeared, and that Carew had withdrawn to some distance, and with a moody brow was busy skipping stones into the water. His first thoughts were of Jacques.. The boy must not leave the island, until he had conversed with him. After some inquiry and search he found him strolling about alone. "Now, Jacques," said Dymocke, as they drew near to each other, "Now, Jacques. what have you to say? I have   lost time enough. Have vou been able to help me in any way 2 " "I  supposed Mr. Dymocke had given up his 3 2^    50        CITARETTE. search for the young lady," replied Jacques, somewhat sullenly. "Given up the search! what mean you, lad? . "I imagined Miss Merrifield might have driven the thoughts of any other lady out of your head." "The devil! has my folly borne fruit already a No, Jacques, I have not given up the search. With your help, if you will; without it, if I must, I will find Jacqueline." . "If such is still your purpose, you may read that, although I have not the same faith I had last night that you will regard it; " said Jacques taking a letter from his pocket, and handing it to Dymocke. - Hugh tore off the envelope, and taking thence a note written in a neat, ladvlike-hand, read: "Jacques has informed me of his interview with yoll last night, and I am greatly flattered at the interest Mr. Dymocke takes in one so almost unknown as myself. I beg of him however, if his professions of esteem are sincere, for my sake, as well as his own, to cease his quest for a few days, and remain quiet upon the island where he is encamped, until he again hears from me, which will be within a week. "JACQUELINE. "P. S. Danger threatens you. Follow my ad- vice and you will avoid it."   CHART'rI.       51 "And is my love so near me?" exclaimed Hugh, as he finished the perusal of the note. "And you have seen her-feasted upon her beauty, and listened to the music of her voice! Oh speak to me of her!- How looked she? Was she well? Sent she no message save this letter?" "Yes," replied Jacques, "she bade me say to Mr. Dymocke that 'she should never forget his kindness in New York.' But I fancy, had she seen you as I saw you but now, paying your court to Miss Merrifield, her message would have been less cordial." "Forget that, my lad. It was a folly that will never be repeated. Come with me to my tent; I will pen- an answer to this dear note, which you shall bear to Jacqueline. How my tongue loves to dwell upon that name! As we go, you shall talk to me of her. Oh, be sure I will obey her slightest mandate, and will rest here as idle as A chilles in his teut, until I hear again from her;" Here they were met by a summons to luncheon, which was spread in a grove near by.  While they are engaged in that pleasant pastime, we will take a moment and tell what danger it was that threatened Hugh.   CHAPTER III. DYMOCKE was right in his conjecture. Moses the Jew  as in league with a gang of smugglers, who carried on their oper- ations sometimes on the Canadian border, some- times on the Atlantic coast. Moses' part of the business was to dispose of the goods thus brought into the country, which he did through the agency of various establishments in different cities of the Union, the proprietors of which were, to all out- ward appearances, honest traders, engaged in lawful avocations. The establishment of Ripinski & Bro., of Catherine Street, was one of these. In his deal- ing with Dymocke, Moses had not exhibited his usual caution. He had an expensive article in his possession, which he was anxious to dispose of at once. He could not offer it to the regular trade, as it would invite inquiry as , how it came into his possession ; and it would have been hard to find a private purchaser who would appreciate   its value. So, by chance hearing of Dymocke's desire for some lace out of the common sorts, he determined to try to find in him a buyer. In laying his plans, he concluded it would rather please the fancy of the young man to think he was buying goods that had been smug- gled into the country, and that, as Dymocke was- but a gay youth addicted to pleasure, he ran no risk of his exposing him for any moral or busi- ness reasons. Bitt after the sale was accomplished, his partners, Messrs. Ripinski, became somewhat nervous over it, and the result was that those gentlemen disappeared, and Greenbaum's name hung over the entrance to the store. Then came Dymocke's inquiries after Moses; and although he did not employ any officers of the law in seeking him, he put the affair in the hands of some private detectives, and this the objects of the search soon discovered, and they, not knowing or suspecting the cause that induced it, naturally concluded it had some connection with their trade. Again, it chanced that the island on which our friends had encamped was in a neighbor- hood where some of these clandestine operations were carried on. On an island not far distant, lived a simple farmer, who tilled. a small piece of ground, and CHARE'YTE. eked out a scanty livelihood by rod and reel, which latter employment took him often to the American shore to dispose of his fish.  Now just at this time there lv in the cellar of this honest citizen a large amount of valuable goods, which it was deemed important should be trans- ferred to the mainland under cover of the night. It was to look after this venture that Moses had appeared in that region, and the presence of the young men on the neighboring island was looked upon as a hindrance. Still, they were regarded as merely a party of pleasure-seekers, and idle curiosity on their part was all that was feared, until Dymocke's appear- ance at Clayton. His movements in the little store there had been observed and reported to Moses, who, put- ting himself in a position where he could see and not be seen, at once recognized in him the person to whom he had sold the lace, and who  subsequently had instituted so sharp a search as to give him some trouble to elude it. The guilty are generally suspicious, and the presence of Dymocke at that important moment gave Moses and his confreres great alarm, and they deter- mined at once to keep him and his friends under close surveillance; and there was more than one' threat made that if they found he was there with   CHARETTE.   designs inimical to themn or their trade, he should suffer for it in his person. No doubt their threats had reached Jacqueline, and were the cause'of the warning she sent to Dymocke. So much in retrospection: and now to return to our friends. Mrs. Archie Talbot, although but a bride of a few weeks, played the part of chaperone to the young ladies most becomingly.   Nature had endowed her with many charms. Of medium height, her form was full, almost to matronly proportions. Her hair, of the fairest alburn, was, according to the fashion of the day, displayed in the most lavish profusion; her skin was radi- antly fair, and her expression most pleasing. Before her engagement to Archie, she had reigned a belle in her circle, not only on account of her father's reputed wealth, but by her own attractions. Many suitors had she; but all were discarded for Archie Talbot. This Archie had inherited a fair fortune which he soon squan- dered. In a word, he was fast, and unfortu- nately had become infatuated with play, His debts of honor were large and most embarrass- ing.  Besides, he was indebted to tradesmen of all descriptions, and his notes were to be found in the hands of many money-changers. He was an early admirer of Miss Rich; but no vice   56        oHAIETTE. hardens the softer feelings like gambling, and it is doubtful if he ever would have thought of making her his wife, had not his debts pressed him sore, and the only relief he could devise was in getting some claim upon the money-bags of old Rich. He was even forced to borrow the money necessary for his wedding expenses, and now some weeks had passed since their lnarriage, and he saw no indications that his father-in-law intended to aid him. It is true, a settlement had been made on Lizzie, but the terms were such that only the interest thereon was available, and this had to come through her hands. . Archie had solemnly promised to give up play; and now, without his accustomed excite- ment, he was restless and uneasy. Every mail brought him dunning letters-letters that he was ashamed to show his wife; so that now, in the very morn of their wedded life, were sown the seeds of future estrangement. Lizzie was truly in love with her husband; but it was- rather hard for her-a six weeks' bride--at the very acme of the honeymoon, to find him, her heart's lord, so indifferent, constantly seeking the most frivolous excuses to be absent from her, and leav- ing her hour after hour alone in those dreary ho- tels, her own thoughts her only pastime. Is it to    CHARETTE.        57 be wondered at that a little feeling of annoyance had already found a place in her heart? Archie himself was conscious of not acting right, and had resolved that on this little excur- sion at least, he would play the part of the young husband with becoming assiduity.  But fate thwarted this most praiseworthy intention. There is an old adage that warns one against reading a letter at night for fear the contents may spoil a night's sleep. The same rule will apply on a day intended for pleasure. Archie had violated the rule: he opened and read his letters just before embarking, and their contents were not such as to give him pleasure. There were 'the usual duns; and one creditor more persistent than the others, threatened at once to make a personal application to Mr. Rich. This had put Archie in a bad humor, -and he forgot his intention of playing the agreeable to his wife, and she was forced to find solace in her duties of chaperoning the young ladies. But now Tom  Vance appears on the scene. Tom was one of the best fellows in the world. The old Adam that pervades so many of us had but a small share in his composition. He was gay--fond of society, of pleasant compan- ionship, of a social glass; was affected in his dress and in his speech, in which he aped the 3*   58        cHArETE. youth of Britain; but of real vice he knew nothing. He was just home from a long sojourn at one of the English Universities, where he had applied himself with a fair degree of diligence to his studies, -and graduated with honor. Full of spirits, and heartwhole, he was just in the condition to fall iii love with the first fair face that came in his way, and this chanced to be Mrs. Archie. Dymocke and Carew were too full of their own affairs to pay her much attention. Herbert Stan- hope devoted himself to the Misses Wyeth, two very nice girls just out of school, who completed the party from the Bay. So, without any intention on the part of either, Vance and Mrs. Archie found themselves perforce thrown together the most of the day, and Vance's good humor and obliging dis- position, were an agreeable relief to the irritability and ill-suppressed ennui of Archie. Thus situated, each found pleasure in the other's society. To Mrs. Archie the day passed most agreeably, and Vance was in raptures over her charms and agreeable manners. When Dymocke and Jacques reached the grove where luncheon was spread, they found hosts and guests assembled, discussing the goods by the gods provided. Mrs. Archie was enthroned on a camp-stool at   CHAR'TTE.        59 the head of the table) and Vance was toasting her in a bumper of chlampage. "Here come o lr truants," she exclaimed, as the two belated wanderers entered. "Make room near me for this young stranger! Come hither, boy, and see if I have no charms that will extort some pretty compliments, like those you paid .Miss Merrifield. Mr. Vance has played the agreeable all the morning, and he has not said a nice thing yet." 'Probably he is like some rapt devotee at the shine of his fair saint; he can only worship and adore in silence," said Jacques. "Toln Vance as a pietist, worshipping, is pretty good," growled Archie, pouring out ah-  other glass of wine. "I am certainly a suffering saint, if not a fair one," said Mrs. Archie. "A little of that salad, my dear, wo uld make me perfectly angelic, in disposition at least." "A   saint asking for lobster salad!" said Archie.  "Well, a saint might do worse!" "Who is that boy Jacques?" asked Miss Mer- rifield of Mr. Carew. "Some one Dymocke picked up hereabouts." "He is very pretty, and seems of gentle breed- ing."         - "The son   of some French /labitaz  on the Canada shore, I  fancy."    60        TTAI kTiV He looks like some Thessalian shepherd. I should not be surprised if he were to pull from his pocket an oaten reed, and pipe us some gentle strain," said the elder Miss Wyeth, who, as we have said, was but just from boarding- school. "And we, nymphs, fauns, and dryads, drawn hither by the magic of his music," added the younger Miss Wyeth. "As we are among such sylvan deities, it is fit that we a free libation offer to the great god Pan," said Herbert Stanhope, pouring a glass of wine upon the ground. "Thank Heaven!" exclaimed Archie Talbot, "' we are all saints and good Christians at our end of the table, and make a more Christian-like use of such good liquor; "and he poured out another bumper and swallowed it. In such like merry fooling the time passed quickly. Luncheon over, the croquet arches were pitched on the green sward, near the margin of the river, and a game was inaugurated. Those who were debarred from playing, seated themselves in picturesque groups as observers. We will not weary the patience of the reader by dwelling upon the varying fortunes of the game. There were the usual number of good and *    v          s   CHARIEtE.       61 poor shots, the usual bickering over doubtful points, and the average quantity of good humor. -Before the game was played out, an interruption occurred. A steamer hove in sight, which, as it neared, was discovered to be the revenue- cutter Chase. When opposite the island she slackened her speed, and dropping her anchor came to a full stop. A boat  was lowered, manned, and headed to the shore. Making a landing near by, an officer, in the uniform of the American revenue service, stepped ashore and approached our friends. Archie Talbot at once recognized in him an old acquaintance, and advanced to welcome him. "Why, Jack, my boy, who expected to see you here! By whatever -chance it has happened, I am glad to see you." "And I you, Archie! You see I have recently % been transferred; am now first officer on yonder cutter. My captain is on sick leave, and I am in command. On my way up stopped at the Bay, saw your name on the hotel register, heard you were somewhere hereabouts, so concluded to beat you up, to congratulate you on being a married man, and pay my respects to the bride. Now present me." "My dear," said Archie, " this is an old friend, Lieutenant Updyke." d,   62        CIIARETTE. "I am most pleased to welcome any of Mr. Talbot's friends," said Mrs. Archie. "Let me present you to the ladies and gentlemen of our party;" and the customary bowings and hand- shakings were gone through with. The game of croquet 'was resumed. Lieutenant Updyke was enlisted by Mrs. Archie on her side. New spirit was infused into the players by the presence of a. stranger, and game followed game, until the day was so far spent that it was time for the visitors to prepare to return to the -Bay, when it was discovered that a sudden and portentous change in the weather had taken place. Large masses of threatening clouds were roll- ing up from the west, the wind had suddenly risen, and the waters of the river, before so calm and peaceful, had become angry and turbulent. All gathered upon a neighboring knoll, which commanded an extensive view, to watch the gath- ering of the storm. The sublimity of the scene, however, did not prevent an earnest discussion as to what was to be done, should the storm not abate. The encampment comprised three tents: one of these was given up to the boatmen, one was occupied by Dymocke and Vance, and one by Carew and Stanhope. It was decided that the larger of these should    CHARETTE.        63 be assigned to the ladies, the other to Carew, Stanhope, and Talbot, while Dymocke and Vance accepted Lieut. Updyke's invitation to spend the night on the cutter. "I do not fancy disturbing you gentlemen in this manner," said Miss Merrifield. "Our barge is very staunch, and with such wraps as you sportsmen can probably spare us, I do not see why we should not venture to brave the storm." "'You do not know, Miss Merrifield," said Lieut. Updyke, " how violent some of these stun- ner storms are; and this bids fair to be quite se- vere, although it may be of short duration. The vaters of the river are soon lashed into fury, and t would be far better for you to remain here mtil morning, than to hazard your healths, per- haps your lives, by attempting to return to the bay to-night." "Why, yonder goes a boat, and it is much smaller than ours," returned the young lady, and the pointed to where a smnallskiff could be seen, bearing a broad sail, that was driving rapidly be- fore the wind, with one person only to guide it. All turned their eyes in the direction indicated, and Dymocke thought the sail resembled the one he had helped raise in-Jacques's boat. Calling to an oarsman standing by, he bade him 'un. to his tent for a glass. As soon, as he had it,   ":    C-A RE'LT TT-. he levelled it at the little frail barkl that seemed to be struggling with the waves. "My heavens!"he exclaimed. "It is indeed the boy Jacques! What foolhardiness! His boat can never stand that amount of canvas in this gale; for worlds I would have no harm come to the lad. A thousand dollars to any one of you who will reach him and bring him safe to shore!" he continued, addressing a group of boatmen. None stirred. "Man one of your boats, and i will go with you." "It is useless," said one of the oldest of the boatmen. "We have but oars, and you see your- self how yonder boat is driving before the wind. We could never overtake her." ' Tis true," said Dymocke, sadly," the attempt would be futile. I pray God the lad may escape all harm; " and he continued to watch him through the glass, until a distant island hid boat and boy, from view. By this time a few large drops of rain were heard pattering upon the trees, and the party of pleasure-seekers hastily sought the shelter of the tents. They had no sooner done so than the storm burst in all its fury. The rain poured in torrents, the wind blew fiercely, and the waves rolled tumultuously. Before this, Vance had busied himself prepar- !*     CHARETTE.        65 ing the tent for the ladies, and by stripping the "other tent of camp-beds and chairs, had contrived to render it quite comfortable. I The oarsmen, in spite of the storm, had con-- trived to prepare them a cup of good coffee, and :some fresh fish well cooked, so that, suffering 'neither from hunger nor the storm, they had every prospect of a comfortable night. Shortly after dark Updyke took his leave, accompanied by Dymocke and Vance, and the camp was left to its repose. As soon as Lieut. Updyke's foot was on the deck of his ship, his manner entirely changed; the free-and-easy ways that had marked his in- tercourse with the party on shore disappeared, and he was the officer on duty again. Giving some orders to the boatswain, who stood at the gangway, he directed the second lieutenant to at- tend him in the cabin. - Here he introduced him to Dymocke and Vance as Mr. Halliday, ordered wine and spirits, and dismissed the attendant. "Take a glass of spirits, gentlemen," he said, pushing the decanters towards his guests. "It will keep off the chill, after your exposure. You will excuse Mr. Halliday and myself from join- ing you in anything stronger than wine ; we have some business on hand to-night that may require cool heads."   "d  -CHARETTE. "Nothing more than a game of whist, I trust," said Dymocke.  "At least, I hope it will jnot take you out this wild night. Judging from the sound of the wind and the way our vessel rolls, the storm must be increasing." "It will abate after a little," replied the lieu- tenant. "We may as well take these gentlemen illto our confidence. Mr. Halliday; they have been prowling round amongst these islands some time, and may give us some information of value. You know, gentlemen, what my profession is, and rwhy I amn here. I am in the revenue service, and this is a revenue cutter. Now, so far, it has proved of about as much service in protecting Uncle Sam's revenue by preventing smuggling, as would a seventy-four-gun ship. Our captain has been more or less blamed for this, but what can he do? He can't take this vessel into the shoals and inlets where these illegal traders run their small craft. As soon as this vessel heaves in sight, every smuggler disappears, and we find only honest fishermen and traders. At last, how- ever, I think an opportunity offers for a haul. Information on which I can rely, has been sent me, that there is a depot of smuggled goods of great value on an island hereabouts, and that it is the intention of the smugglers to run themr, over the first dark night.   CHARETTE.       67 "Now, hearing of your party, it was mny in- tention to join you, and under pretence of giving you some pleasure excursions, cruise around here, watching for indications, and try and make a capture of these goods. But this storm has upset that plan. It is just the sorit of night to suit these fellows, and unless I can do something at once, I fear half these goods will be in the States before morning. Now, gentlemen, you have been fishing hereabouts for some time. Have you seen anything that will aid uts?" Both confessed themselves unable to furnish any information. "Who was that youth in rather peculiar dress I saw among you, and: whom afterwards you, Mr. Dymocke, were watching so attentively through your glass?"  'A lad I accidentally picked up, and who rowed me over to Clayton yesterday, my own boatman being suddenly taken sick." \  "I have some notes sent me as to persons sus- pected of aiding these smugglers; and if I remember right, there was something about a lad that tallies somewhat with this boy;" and going to an escriitoire the lieutenant took thence a written paper, and running his eye over it, read: "With this man Coyer is often seen a lad of almost feminine appearance, who dresses some-   68        CHARhWITIG. what out of the common, usually wearing a blouse; and often passes to and fro between the American and Canadian shores. This boy is strongly suspected of being the medium  by which the smugglers communicate with each other." "I think that is your friend." continued the lieutenant, folding up the MS., "and- un- doubtedly by this time his confreres have full information of our presence here. I noted the course the lad took, and I propose to man a couple of boats, and follow on his track to-night. If I amn not much mistaken, we will overhaul something before morning. Poor Dymocke could answer not a word. What he knew of Jacques, only rendered this suspicion too probable. His acquaintance with Jacqueline, Jacque- line's connection with Moses, all indicated the complicity of the boy with these lawless men. But then the ingenuousness of his character, which spoke in every feature, and the strong terms in which he expressed reprobation of this species of traffic, militated against this theory; and Dymocke's sympathies were at once with the boy, and he found himself hoping, both for his and Jacqueline's sakes, the lieutenant's expedi- tion might prove fruitless. The two officers now left the cabin to complete their preparations,   CHARETTE.       69 leaving our friends to discuss the contents of the decanters at their leisure. The mind of Dymocke was troubled. He thought that danger threatened Jacqueline, and he knowing it, and not to extend a helping hand, was almost madness to him. So, when Vance proposed that they should ask permission to accompany the expedition, he grasped at the idea eagerly. True, he remembered the promise he had made, through Jacques, to Jacqueline, not to leave the island until he again heard from her, but he judged that the circumstances would absolve him from his promise. When, therefore, Lieutenant Updyke returned to the cabin to bid his guests good-night, and to point out their sleeping quar- ters, Hugh proposed that he and Vance should be allowed to bear him company. To this the lieutenant gave a willing consent. He furnished each with a thick cloak, and together they sought the deck. The boats were already manned. Updyke took Dymocke with him, and assigned Vance to the care of Halliday. The storm still raged, and the night was very dark. "'Fortunately," said Updyke, "'I took some -observations this afternoon, or we soon would be bewildered. For the present we shall have to trust mnore to our compass than our eyes. Tile   70        CHAREErE. wind has changed a few points, and we shall have moonlight by and by. I should like to get upon these fellows before then. Mr. Halliday, yon will follow in our wake, andWvithin hail." Dymocke, wrapping his- cloak about him, took -his seat beside the lieutenant, a prey to great anxiety. Both Jacques and Jacqueline were mingled in his thoughts, and somehow he found himself as often thinking of the one as the other, and anxious for the safety of each alike. Vanlce had nothing of the sort to trouble him; and the novelty of the situation, the wild howling of the tempest, the unknown dangers before thleln, had an exhilarating effect upon his mercurial temperament. He found a charming companion in Mr. Halli- day, and they beguiled the way with story and jest. The oars were all muffled, and had they not been, the storm would have prevented their being heard at any great distance. They had rowed steadily for about an hour, when a rocket was descried cleaving the air, and evidently discharged at no great distance. "There is a signal," said UTpdyke, "intended, doubtless, for some confederates, but it will serve our turn quite as well. Port your helm a trifle, coxswain." Soon land was sighted, which, owing to the darkness, they had drawn quite near to be-   CHARETTE.        71 fore discovering. Following the dim outline of- the shore for some distance, suddenly, in turning a point of land, they came upon the party for whom they were in search. Lights were gleam- ing upon the beach, and by the aid of a night- glass the lieutenant was able to discern a number of men busily engaged in loading some boats; while a small fishing smack lay at anchor near by, her sails all loosened, evidently ready to hoist at a moment's notice. Updyke gave the command to the men to rest upon their oars until the second boat came up.       ' "I think," he said, " my men can manage the fellows on the shore. The land hereabouts seems well wooded. Here we will effect a landing, and, aided by the shelter of the trees, get as near the enemy as possible. As soon, Mr. Halliday, as you see we have commenced an attack or have been dciscovered, yol will take your position be- tween yonder smack and the boats on the beach, and if any of them attempt to make off, you will prevent it. Are you armed, Mr. Dyminocke  "I am ashamed to say I am not," replied Hugh. "Here, take this revolver," anad, addressing one of the men, "pass Mr. Dymocke a pike." The landing was effected without accident, and Updyke, leaving the boat in charge of two trusty men, led the remainder of his force into the   72        CHTAT,rTE.  wood. He gave strict orders for the men to keep close to him, and under no circumstances to use fire-arms except in self-defence, but to endeavor to secure the smugglers alive, and without blood- shed. By this time the change in the weather, which the lieutenant had predicted, had taken place. The rain had ceased-the clouds were being rapidly dispersed by a brisk north-west wind, and the moon occasionally showed her pale face between the rifts in the clouds. By the friendly aid of the wood Updyke was enabled to draw quite near without discovery, and to make his observations at leisure. Upon a rise of the ground stood a large farm-house with the customary outhuildings. Men could be seen busily engaged transporting bales, barrels, and bundles from this house to the boats on the beach. Giving the word of command, Updyke and his men with loud shouts rushed upon them. Taken entirely unawares, the resistance was very short, and without the discharge of a pistol' all were secured except such as may have been in the house. The clouds now had entirely rolled away, and the moon threw a flood of light upon the scene. "Now, men," said Updyke, "for the house! Follow me!" His foot was on the step, when the door was   IIARETTE.       73 1 flung wide open, and a man, broad-shouldered and muscular, stood before him in the doorway. He was armed with a shot-gun, which he levelled at Updyke's breast. "Stop where ,you are!" he exclaimed in thundering tones. "This is my house. He who crosses its threshold without my permission or by due authority of law, dies /" "I demand admission in the name of the Gov- ernment of the United States, in whose service I am," returned Updyke, his eyes flashing back defiance. "Then back to your government-for you will find no entrance here. This is Canadian soil, and I am a subject of England.  "That dodge won't do, my friend," replied Updyke with a scornful laugh. "Put down your musket, or I will order my men to use force. "Let them try it. Raise your hand but to order back your men, and your life is forfeited:" and the stranger covered Updyke with 1liagun. The lieutenant was stubborn and hot-headed and a deed of blood would undoubtedly have been enacted had not an opportune interruption occurred. Suddenly between the two enraged men stood a man dressed in the garb of a Romish priest. He was of a lofty stature, and evidently 4   74 -       CHA RKTT. of great strength; but his face, as seen in the moonlight, wore an expression of the utmost benignity. "IPut up your weapon, Antoine," he said in mild tones. "And you, my young sir, let me know the cause of this midnight assault. It is possible- there is some mistake here." "I am  Lieutenant Updyke, of the revenue service of the United States, at present in coln- mand of the cutter Chase. Hearing of this store of contraband goods, I am here to seize the same, and arrest the offenders." " I fear, lieutenant, your zeal has outrun your discretion. These goods are still on Canadian soil. That it was the purpose of these men to, have evaded your revenue laws, I fear there is no good reason to doubt. But you should have waited at least till they were in your waters be- fore attempting their seizure." "Can you satisfyv me of this, sir . " "I think I can. Antoine, bring the chart of the river that hangs in your parlor." The chart was brought. It was one issued un- der the authority of the U. S. Government. On it the boundary line was distinctly defined; and: aided by a light from a lantern Updyke could easily trace it. The place where they now stood was soon   CHAxi-RETl.       75 found, and the moonlight, rendering distinct, objects the darkness had concealed, the priest had no difficulty in convinlcing Updyke of his error. He had been on the station only a few weeks, and being full of ambition to distinguish himself in the absence of his captain, had not sufficiently informed himself of the boundary lines. Full of chagrin he rejoined his men. "The game is up, boys," he said; "leave your prisoners and fall in. Back to the boat!"Then turning towards the band of smnugglers he shook his fist, exclaiming, "I will have you yet, you scoundrels, and your goods too." Tliis was received with a shout of derision; and tholgh no attempt was made to interfere with his peaceful withdrawal; as long as he was within hearing, he and his men were the objects of much coarse and scurrilous chaffin. Dymocke had taken no part in the fray; but intent on his own affairs, he went about, scanling. the face and form of each one of the gang, think- ing he might find Jacques among them. But his search was fruitless. He recognized one of the boats on the beach as the one in which Jacques had left the island that afternoon, so his mind was relieved from the fear that he might have perished in the storm. Finally, finding there was to be no need of his services he went prowl-   76        CEHARlt'E ing around the house, gazing up at the different windows, with some wild hope that Jacqueline might be there. But there was no indication that such was the case; so withl a feeling of dis- appointment he slowly anld reluctantly Withdrew. By this time Updyke had retired with his men, and was concealed froin view in the woods. Dymocke, certain that he would be missed at the embarkation, felt no uneasiness, but with a lusty stride started in pursuit. He had taken no great heed as to the way they had approached, and thus he failed to strike the wood at the proper point, alnd soon found himlself somewhat be- wildered. He decided his best course would be to retrace his steps and regain the open ground; whenl, by the aid of the moon, he would unldoubt- edly be able to find the proper path. This he did, and had skirted the edge of the wood for some distance, when suddenly a female fornm issued from a dense thicket, and rushing to him exclaimed, "Fly, Mr. Dymocke, fly! quick! away, or you are lost!" Before Dymocke could reply or inquire the cause of this alarm, the sharp report of a pistol rang out upon the night air, and the stranger, uttering a cry of pain, staggered and would have fallen to the ground, had not Dymocke caught. her in his arlns.   CHARETTE.       " "Thank God!" she said, " it is I instead of you. Oh! do you not know me . I am Jacque- line and Jacques! Oh darling, I aln dyin g--my life's blood ebbs away! But I amn happy-I aln in your arms.  Hold me close to your heart! Kiss me! let me feel your lips upon minle, ere I die!" The pale moon lit up the whole scene with its argent rays; and as Dyimocke, in agonized amazement, gazed upon the fair face, now pale in death, of her he held in his aris, he recognllized too well the lost Jacqueline. "O God!" he exclaimed, " have I found you at last only for this Oh, my love! my darling, look up! I cannot lose you now! You must not-shall not die! Let me bear you where some help can be obtained." "'No, it is useless! lay me on the grass and hold me so that the moon will shine upon your face. I grow weak--am  faint. Oh, Hugh! I may speak it Inow, for I am passing away,--I love you! My heart, now in the feeble -pulsations of death, beats all for you. Cherish my memory, darling-think kindly of me!" "My God! my God!" exclaimed Hugh, as drops of untold agony gathered upon his brow. " uMust this be! Must I here part with her I love best on earth :,"   78        OHAREE'TE. "It is best thus, darling; you never could have made me your wife.  Time will soften your grief; but I know you will never forget me. Love like minie must have found its echo inl your heart. Now kiss me once mnore!" Dymocke bent over her; her head lay in his lap; he pressed his lips upon hers. She wound her arms around his neck-again and again she breathed his name in accents of tenderest love. Gradually her arms loosed, her eyes closed-a shiver of agony passed through her frame, and Dymocke held the senseless form of Jacqueline! Overcome by his emotions, Dymocke seemed paralyzed, and sat in a state of stupor, gazing upon the face of the dead, when he was aroused by the sound of approaching footsteps. Looking up, he saw the tall priest. Horror was depicted upon his countenance. Stooping down, he lifted in his powerful arms the inanimate form. "Alas, poor saint!" he cried in accents of tenderest pity, "poor, poor saint! Is this the end? Is it fortffs that I have toiled, and you have sufferedq! God forgive me if I have sinned! But praise be to his Holy name, your soul, sweet child, is now in Paradise; but we poor mortals must still toil on and mourn. But this is idle: we must have help: some spark of life may yet remain. Follow nle, young sir; you   CHARETrE.   ,    79 have nought to fear.' Dymocke eagerly sprang to his feet, and prepared to follow, when he heard a rusling as of many feet. Suddenly he found himself roughly seized from  behind, heavy blows fell like rain upon his head alnd shoulders, and, mangled and bloody, he was thrown senseless to the ground. , ;i    CHAPTER IV. where the four storm-bound ladies were to pass the night. One solitary candle threw its feeble rays around in a vain effort to dispel the same. When the gentlemen had bade good-night to these forlorn ones, and left then to that repose which the fatigues of the day had rendered most needful, they stood gazing upon each other in a sort of mock despair. Then they took a survey of their apartment, and found that Mr. Vance" had made a truly mannish arrange- ment of the four little camp beds; having placed them as far apart as the limited space would allow. This would not have been in ac- cordance with woman's gregarious nature under ordinary circumstances-far less now, when each was the subject of some slight degree of timid- ity. The isolation of the place, the wild storm that raged without, the frail nature of their can- vas roofing that seemed in momentary danger of being swept away, all contributed to their fears.   C RETTE.        Si The first thing they did therefore was to seize upon their beds and arrange them side by side as close as possible, "all in a row." Behold then, these four parallel beds, with a young lady seated upon tie foot of each gazing upon each other in a sort of comical dismay, giving little shrieks of terror as some fierce blast shook their frail cov- ering, threatening to bear it from its fastenings. "I feel very mlch," said Mrs. Archie, "as I do in one of those horrid sleeping-cars: I hardly know how to begin to undress.  Here is this tangled mass of hair, with 'rats and mice and such small deer all through it. I can't possibly sleep in it, and I never can get it back in place in the morning, without my own conveniences." "I don't care about my hair," said one of the Misses Wyeth, "but what are we to do for night gear " "Sleeping-car style, my dear. Take off your gaiters, loosen your stays, and so woo the drowsy god. So happy low lie down; uneasy will rest my head that wears a fashionable coiffure." "I wish I was a boy," chimed in the other Miss Wyeth. "I do think all this mass of toggery we girls are compelled to wear to keep us up to the fashion, is simply barbarous. I really envied that boy Jacques as we were play- ing croquet. How sweet and pretty he looked 4*    CHARElTTES. in that loose blouse! and his hair all nnconfined. How free and easy were all his movements, while my skirts were continually flapping in the wind, renderilg a good stroke almost impossible." By the way, girls," said Mrs. Archie," who ill the world is this boy Jacques? As I understand, he is merely Mr. Dyilocke's boatman; and yet he seems to make a companion of him, and allowed him unrebuked to associate with us, his guests, as an equal." "I thought he looked more like a girl than a boy," said the eldest Miss Wyeth. "And I noticed his ears were pierced for rings," said the younger. Mrs. Archie opened wide her eyes. "Can it be," she said, "that Mr. Dymnocke has been solacing himself with a companion on this little excursion, and that he has had the audacity to present her to us in this disguise? Shaml!  shame upon him if this be so." At this Miss Merrifield fired up. "Shame! shame upon you, madam, for daring to make the insinuation. On Mr. Dymocke's brow shame is ashamed to sit.' I know him well-a- man of the noblest character; one of the purest, the truest, the most chivalrous of men. Then how absurd the idea; think you any girl could or would have dared to take that frail boat out in   Ch ARE TT.       83   this wild storm, as did that boy? Your suspi- cions are foolish!" "I beg your pardon," said Mrs. Archie, "and Mr. Dymocke's too. It was but a chance thought, and I see it had no founldation."' Although the subject was here dropped, the heightened color on Miss Merrifield's cheek, and the troubled look on her brow, showed that the thoughts suggested lingered in her mind. The unlacing of gaiters now began in earnest, and we will blow out the light. How long the ladies had slept they could not tell; all their slumbers had been somewhat fitful-- when Mrs. Archie awoke then: "Girls, there has certainly something happened: there seems to be great commotion outside, and I heard some one calling up the gentlemen. I mean to get up and see what is the matter." So she accordingly rose, and slipping her feet into her gaiters without waiting to lace -them, raised the canvass that hung over the entrance and peered out. It was in the gray of early dawn. Her com- panions eagerly demanded what she saw. "I see a group of men upon the beach, and one of the cutter's boats, I think, and they are raising something in their hands. It is a piece of sail-it is heavy weighted, and at least five   84        CHARETTE. or six sailors are bearing it; they come this way. I can now see their faces; they look pale and awe- struck. They draw nearer; there is lMr. Vance; yes, and Carew and, thank God, there is Archie and Mr. Stanhope and Lieutenant Updyke." "And Mr. Dyinocke 2." asked Miss Merrifield in a husky voice. "No, I do not see him; no, he is not there. There is a cloak thrown over the sail. My God! some fearful accident lias happened!" By this time the girls had all got themselves in presentable condition, and issuing from the tents, stood awaiting the approach of the cortege. Vance saw theml, and whispered to Archie to let them know what had happened. Mr. Talbot approached, and his wife hastened to meet him. "What is it, Archie? What has happened 2" "Poor Dymocke, the best fellow  in the world!" Here he completely broke down and burst into sobs. "Tell me, Archie! speak! is he dead?" "No, not dead, thank God! but fearfully, horribly mangled. Look to Miss Merrifield!" The poor girl had heard his words; she tried hard to control her emotions, but unable to do so, swooned in the arms of Miss Wyeth. While the ladies looked to her, Dymocke was borne into the gentlemen's tent, and laid upon a   CHARETTE.        85 bed. He was entirely unconscious, but groaned as if his pain was great. Mr. Halliday had beeni despatched, in one- of the cutter's boats to Clay- ton for a doctor, and. it would be some time be- fore he could .arrive. In the meantime Updyke applied cold-water bandages to his bruises, and as soon as Miss Merrifield was recovered from her faint, the ladies all kindly tendered their services as nurses; but as these were not needed at present, Lieutenant Updyke insisted upon taking them back with him to the cutter. Here lihe gave up the cabin for their acnomnmodation, and they were enabled to make their inorning toilette in a much more satisfactory and thorough manl- ner than would have been possible on shore. It was near noon when the doctor arrived, who at once proceeded to dress Dymocke's wounds, which he pronounced very severe, but not neces- sarily fatal; gave him some soothing potion, and recommended that he should at once be remnov:ed to some place where he could have regular med- ical attendance, and such comforts and nursing as a man so prostrated would require. Ogdens- burg seemed the most feasible place, and as Lieutenant Updyke placed the cutter entirely at the service of the gentlemen, it was decided at once to break up the camp, and taking Dymocke on board, proceed with himn to that city. The   86        CIIARETTE. *  necessary preparations were hastily made, the store of provisions that remailled given away, the boat- menl paid off, .and directions given- them as to how the camp equipage was to be packed andl shipped. Dymocke was carefully and safely transported to the cutter and laid upoll Updyke's bed, wherel, under the-influence of the doctor's anodynelte seemed more easy. The anchor was weigh, and the cutter headed down the stream.  On consultation with Iis wife and the yo ng ladies under his charge, Mr. Talbot found they had no desire longer to remain in that neighbor- hood, but that they would much prefer contilln- ing oil the cutter to Ogdelsburg, from wltich point they could decide upon their future move- ments-either to return to Saratoga by way of Lake Champlain, or else continue down the river to Montreal; or strike out into the White Moun- tains and so back to New York. Lieutenant Up- dyke stopped the cutter long enough at the Baay, for Talbot to settle the hotel bill, and ve their luggage put on board. Were it not for the anxiety all felt for their suffering friend, the trip down the river would have been mostenjoyable. Theladies, of course, were all curiosity and anxiety to know how Dy- mocke had met with his injuries. The lieutenant      .*   CHARETTE.        87 detailed to them the incidents of the night's ad- venture, concluding, "It was not until I reached the boat, and had nmy men all enmbarked, that I discovered that Dymocke was missing. Supposing he had loitered behind, I felt no uneasiness, but sat waiting for him, when I heard the report of a pistol. Fearing some deviltry, I took a squad of men, and hastened back; we were not long in-finding hin.  Near the wood, and in the full moonlight, he lay .upon the wet grass, all bathed in blood. Not another soul was in sight; but 'there is no doubt it was the work of those rascals, the smugglers. But I will be even with theln before I leave the stationn." Our friends were all gathered upon the for- ward deck of the steamrer ;-the gentlemen with tlhe everlasting cigar in their mouths, and the ladies-some with books, and some with tatting or crochet, but all taking part in the colnversa- tion, or observing the beauties of the scellery; Lieutenant Updyke alone was missing; he had insisted upon taking full charge of Dymocke while he was on his boat, and was with him now. Miss Merrifield, taking advantage of a moment when the attention of the group was attracted to some more than ordinarily striking view that pre- sented itself, quietly slipped away to the rooln   88   -CHARTTf. where the injured man lay. At the moment Updyke was absent, having -stepped out to give some orders connected with his ship. He had left the door slightly ajar; with a trembling hand she gently pushed it open. Dymocke lay upon the bed, his head bound with linen cloths, his face deathly pale and his beard all smeared with blood. With the tenderest interest she gazed upon him, whom she once fondly thought was to have been her husband. How long ago seemed that time-that happy time-when all the world was bright, and all of life was joy. And yet only a few brief months had passed since then! The, trees, then full of tlossoms, had not perfected their fruit; yet that bud of 'love-then so full of promise--lay all withered and dead. The fair cheek of the gentle girl was bedewed with tears; but it would be hard to say, if they fell for the sad hap that had befallen her whilom lover, or for the loss of that lover's love. Dymocke stirred; he began to toss aboult un- easily; he threw his arms about as if in pailn, and clashed tightly his hands together. He be- gan murmuring in his delirium, and then wildly cried: "Jacqueline, Jacqueline! dead! dead! My love! my heart's darling! dead, dead, dead! Jacqueline and Jacques-Jacques and Jacque- line, dead! dead!"   CHARETTE.        89 Quickly Miss Merrifield escaped from the room and sought the cabin, where she could be alone. At last she felt the secret was revealed to her. Another had come between her and her love; another had usurped the place she once held in Dymocke's heart. He had called her by niane, Jacqueline; he had called her his love, his dar- ling-endearing terms she had one day fondly hoped to hear linked with her name. Break now, fond heart! H-Iope itself is dead! But is it dead? What was that other word that rang out- so wild and sad--a word that ought to lhave buried hope, but at the sound  hope revived. Dead! Jacqueline is dead! Jacques and Jacqueline are \ dead.  Was ts t true, or but the mere raving of delirium?   Whas there a Jacqueline? Who and what was she that had won the love of such a man?   Faces innumerable that she had beheld floated before her. At last it came like a revela- tion-that ride in Central Park, and  that fair girl she had seen with Dymocke--so beautiful and so radiantly happy.  Where had she seen that face since . Why came it back to her now? Jacques? Yes, it was the same. The clue had led to the goal! Jacques and Jacqueline were one. The gentle girl buried her face in her hands   90        CHEAREITE. and wept hot scalding tears. It was not now for the loss of Dymocke's love. lIt was not now for pity for Dymoclke's wounds. ' It was that her idol had falledz-that one whom her imagination had endowed with every virtue was suddenly revealed to her a whited sepulchre, outwardly, oh so fair, but inwardly full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. And for this she had been discarded; for this he had thrown away her love-a love so pure, that God and angels might approve it. And for what . For one who could so far forget her womanly modesty as to go tramping about the country with liin in masculine attire. Was it possible this could be? And were all men false? Was Vance, who seemed so open and franli,--was Carew, who appeared so chivalrous and true- were they too false? lIad they knowingly al- lowed this woman to associate with them unre- buked? She would know the truth. Hastily bathing her eyes to remove as far as possible all the traces of her recent emotion, she ascended to the deck and joined the group of gentlemen seated there.- Adroitly she led the conversation to their island life, and at length to Jacques. By question anld cross-question she got at the   CHARETTE.        91 facts: all were ignorant as to who the boy was; all they knew1 came from Dymocke, whose boat- man had been taken suddenly ill, and this boy had rowed him home.' Alas! had he even stooped to lying, to conceal his wickedness? The day before the pic-hic they had been out all day alone together, and far into the nlight. She could no longer endure to be near him, where she should see, or hear of him. She in- quired of Mr. Talbot if there was any necessity of their remnaining at Ogdensburg. Could they not take the train and go on that night?  Updyke was consulted. "They would reach Ogdensbung in tine for the night train to Ronse's Poillt." "Then let us go," said Miss Merrifield. "At Rouse's Point we can decide our future move- nments.," TaTbot made no objection; Ogdensburg had no attractions for him. Carew and Stanhope asked permission to accompany them, while Vance declared his intention of remaining with Dymocke. The ladies' trunks were taken to the cabin where they changed their dresses for those more suitable for travelling. It was early evening when the cutter reached   92        CHARETTE. her destination, and onr friends were soon com- fortably established in that abomnination of Mrs. Archie-a sleeping-car. Vance took his leave with many longing looks. H-e fain would have gone on with the others, but the good-hearted 'fellow could not bear the thought of leaving Dymocke to the tender mercies of strangers. As the train rolled away, Mrs. Archie leaned out of the window, and with a bllush and a smile threw him a kiss with her daintily-gloved hand. This was some consolation. Good quarters were obtained at the Seymour House, and to them Dymocke was carried. A doctor was summoned to re-dress his wounds, and Vance and UTpdyke watched over him with un- wearied calre. His recovery was not as rapid as Vance had wished and expected: a naturally strong consti- tution, that had not been undermined by exces- sive dissipation, enabled himn soon to recoveir fromn his bodily injuries, but the shock to his mental and nervous system was not so easily overcome. The tragic, scenes of that fatal night werele never absent' fromn his thoughts by day, and were re- peated, with imaginary horrors, during the houlrs  of fevered sleep. Thus was his convalescence retarded, and it was only after weeks of confine- ment that, with languid step and slow, he began   CHARETTE.       93 to tread the quiet streets of that most quiet burgh. Updyke's duties of course did not allow him to remain with him all this tine, but it was noted that the Chase was seen more frequently than usual, beside the wharf at Ogdensburg. Vance's heart had often yearned to be off to the White Mountains, where the Talbots and thetr friends were sojourning; but he never allowed Htugh to suspect it. At length, ]lowever, he was sufficicently recovered to travel with safety, and Vance pro- posed that they should join Archie. "A sniff or two of that sharp mountain air will put new life into you, old boy, and the cheer- ful society of Mrs. Archie and the girls, will ban- ish all these melancholy devils that now possess you, into outer darkness, where they properly belong." "Perhaps so, my dear fellow," replied Dy- mocke, " and it certainly would be most selfish of me to keep you longer mewed up here, tending me as if I were but a puling girl. But, Vance, before I leave this neighborhood I have a sort of childish fancy I wish to gratify. I suppose it is because I am not quite my old self, that this fool- ish idea has taken possession of me, and will not 'down at my bidding.' I have an intense desire to revisit our island, where we passed those calmn   "       CUIARETrrE. and' tranquil days ; alld I would like, also, to see the spot where I Inet with that sad mischance. I have thought, therefore, of asking Updyke to take us there, on his next trip up." "' And lo! where on his cue he comes, " said Vance, gazing out of the window, which conm- manded a view of the street. In a few moments Updyke was in the room, and in that cheery, breezy way habitual to him, soon had Vance roaring at son, e new jest, and an nnwollted simile playing round Dyinocke's pale lips. Most willingly he complied with the latter's request, and -proposed that they should at once take up their quarters on the cutter, that by starting during the night they might by morning find themselves at their destination, and so have the entire day for their purpose. The landlord accordingly was summoned, all the necessary arrangements made, and Dymocke bade farewell to his sick-chamber, and was soon -colnfortably installed on the CAase. On ascending to the deck the following morn- ing, our hero found himself in the presence of well-rellemebered scenes. The vessel lay riding at anchor, near the spot where she lay that wild, tempestuous night when he and Vance and Updyke had started on their ill-staired expedition. Before him was the island   CIARE'TTE.       95. on- which they had encamped, and all around the placid river, its wavelets dancing in the early sunlight Wonl which he had sailed with Jacques, all unknowing it was his heart's darling, who was his companion and guide.  Breakfast over, Updyke ordered a boat to be manned, and the three friends were soon upon the island. As Dymocke apparently wished to be alone, Vance anld Updyke seated thelnselves for a quiet smoke, while Hugh went wandering about, trying to recall every place where he had seen Jacques sit or stanld: the grove, where at luncheon he had amused the guests with his pi- quant wit, to the sequestered spot where he had given him Jacqueline's letter, and half in jest and half in earnest, rallied him on his devotion to Miss Merrifield; and then he sought to find the partic- ular place from which he must have embarked that last time he was to appear in his boyish cos- tume--when he trusted himself, all alone in that frail bark, to the dangers of storm and wave, either from some sense of duty, or, more probably, because modesty prevented his remaining on the island during the night. This spot Dymocke fan- cied he had found, because upon- the beach he dis- covered some prints made by tiny feet, which, with a lover's fervid irnagiation, he at once con- cluded were made by Jacques.   * 96        CHARETTE. His reverie over, he rejoined his friends, who, putting themselves again aboard the launch, started for the snmuggler's island. At Dymocke's request they landed on the salme spot as before, and together they traversed the wood. Updyke had no difficulty in pointing out the exact spot where Dymocke was found. Hugh was overcome with emotion. His friends attri- buted this to a remembrance of his injuries, ignorant as they were of the events that had preceded them. He required all the fortitude he could summon, in his present weak state, to command himself. More vividly than ever rose before him that fatal scene-the sudden appear- ance of Jacqueline, her fair face pale in death, her words of tenderest love-then the last he: could remember, as she lay in the arms of the dark-robed priest, bathed in the pure moonlight. Some simple wild-flowers were blooming near; of these le gathered a few, which he carefully preserved. Then they took their way to the farm-house. Here all was desolation, the win- dow shutters were closed, and no sign of life appeared. Long and heavy raps given at the door failed to elicit any response. Not to be baulked in his purpose, Hugh sought to force an entrancej which he succeeded in doing at one of the rear windows, which was less securely fas-   CHARETTE.        97 tened than the others. Within, no sound met his cars, save the echo of his own footsteps. He looked everywhere to find some trace of Jacque-, line. At last he thought he had done so, for upon the floor of a small chamber, he found the rib- bon that he had seen about Jacques's neck; this he eagerly seized upon, and concealed close to his heart. There were also a few scattered books with the simple name "Jacqueline" writ- ten in them. With what feelings he gazed around him! There were few of those little trifles that mark a woman's presence; but there was the little cot with its coarse but clean cover- let, on which her fair limbs had reposed-there the tiny mirror that had reflected her sweet face ; and here, the ivory crucifix, before which, morn- ing and evening, she had poured forth her pure orisons. Dymocke sat down overwhelmed with grief and self-reproach. "Oh!" he murmured, "if I had but kept my word, and obeyed her re- quest to remain upon the island, all this horror had not come upon us!" He was roused froln his reverie by the voice of Vance, who   had followed him  into the house, and  was now seeking him. No  inci- dent of note. marked their return to Ogdens- burg. Here, reluctantly, Dymocke and Vance bade adieu to Lieutenant Updyke, whom   they 5                 pT/   98        CHARE TTE. had learned to esteem, and took tne cars for Rouse's Point. Archie Talbot and friends had passed the in- terval since we parted with them, in wandering about the White Mountains and vicinity. Here Hugh and Vance joined them. A warm and friendly greeting they received from all, except Miss Merrifield. Towards Vance, indeed, her manner seemed unchanged; but Dymocke re- ceived only the coldest and most distant bow of recognition. Any lack of warmth on her part was, however, fully made up by the enthusiasm of Mrs. Archie. She thought his pale looks and somewhat languid manner, only made him the more interesting; and as to Vance, the hearty warmth with which she took his proffered hand, and the- ardent pleasure -that sparkled in her bright eyes, made the honest fellow's heart beat with rapture. Carew and Stanhope were still with the party, the former more than ever enamorled with Miss Merrifield, and he was flattering himself that of late his attentions were not unpleasant to that lady. With a lover's jealousy, he had dreaded the reappearance of Dymocke, and he noted with secret satisfaction the distant manner in which she- bore herself towards him. As days passed on, this manner, instead of softenillg,   OCARETrTrJ.       99 only increased, and at times it seemed as if his presence was absolutely hateful to her. At first, Dymocke absorbed in his own sad memories scarcely noticed it; then he thought it but the reflex of his own conduct towards her; but at length it became so marked, that he could not but conclude there was some deeper reason than he was aware of, at the bottom of it. As to the young lady herself, her position was most embar- rassing. She well knew that the little coterie of friends, with whomn she was thown in daily con- tact, were aware of her former relations towards Mr. Dymocke, ^and that they would and did attribute her conduet to pique at the loss of his attentions-a position, of all others, the most painful to a sensitive woman. Then, again, she felt she was doing wrong, in allowing one who had grossly insulted themn all, to associate with her young friends unexposed; and yet she could not bring herself -to reveal it to them. Although Dymoclke had fallen in her estima- tion; although, as formerly, she had believed him endowed with every virtue, now she con- ceived him capable of every vice, yet she shrank from lifting the veil that concealed his'deformity from the world.   How a true heart eks to shield the faults of the object it has once loved I Thus affairs went on from day to day, and still   100        CHARETTE. our party lingered, fascinated by the charms of that mountain land. Dymocke was now    rapidly regaining his strength, so that he thought lie might venture to indulge in his favorite sport; accordingly one bright morning he borrowed a few flies from the landlord, and sallied out to have a cast or two for trout, in a neighboring stream. The absorbing nature of his pastime led him further than he had intended, and it was late in the afternoon before he set out on his return. That same afternoon Miss Merrifield also went out unattended; she was a good walker, and- passionately fonld of nature; there was not a glen, or stream, or mountain pass for miles around, with which she had not become familiar. On the present occasion her steps were directed- up the mountain. She carried her sketch-book in her hand, for she had a view in her mind that she wished to transfer to paper. Reaching the desired spot, she seated herself upon a projecting rock that overlooked the valley, and soon, with all an artist's enthusiasm, had thrown herself into her work. She had noticed that a thick mist had gathered about the higher peaks, but absorbed in her occupation had not observed that this mist was rolling rapidly down the sides of the mountain; so that before   CHARERETE.       101  she was aware of it, shile was enveloped in a thick fog. Somewhat alarmed leAs she should not be able to find her way back to the hotel, she arose, and was hesitating whether to set out at once, on wait, in hopes that a friendly wind would soon dispel the mist, lwhen she was aware that some- one stood beside her, and turning, recognized Mr. Dymocke. Now that very morning she had written and despatched the following note, which Hugh had received just before starting on his fishing excur- sion : "I once received from   one I held in high esteem, these gifts. This person has fallen so low in my estimation, that I can no longer keep them: therefore I return them to the donor. "K M." With this note was a package containing vari- )us trinkets that Dymocke had presented her, aid also that unfortunate lace, which, without ler knowing it, had been " the cause of all her voe." Hugh could scarcely believe his senses, as he cad and re-read this severe note. He had too igh an opinion of Miss Merrifield's good sense to elieve that wounded  vanity or even blighted   102 .       CHARETTE. affection would induce her to write it. There was some hidden cause: and hle determined that another day should not pass without an explana- tion. This unexpected encounter gave him the opportunity which he determined to improve. "I saw you, Miss Merrifield," lhe said, " from a distance, and I tried to warn you of the ap- proaching mists; but my voice is solmewhat fee- ble, I think; at least I failed to make you hear ne."  "' Thank you, sir, for your kind intentions, but a little fog will not hurt me. Good afternoon ;" alld she gathered up her books and pencils, as preparing to descend the mountain. Dymocke laid his hand upon her arm, and gently' but firmly detained her. ' It would be folly, Miss Merrifield," he said, "for you to attempt tofind your way in this dense fog alone : you surely would wander from the path; you, had better wait awhile; the fog may lift, and if not, we will do better together than alone. Besides, Miss Merrifield, I have somewhat to say to you, and there can be no better opportunity than the present. Do me the kindness to resume your seat, and in patience hear me-. I ask it in the name of thepast." His manner was so gentle, and there was such a sad and mournful tremor in his voice, that she 1,t    CHARETTE.       103 could not refuse. Dymocke seated himself be- side her and began: "I am aware, Aliss Merrifield, that you have good cause of complaint against me: my conduct towards you has not been such as I can extenuate or excuse. I paid you, attentions that no man should pay to any woman unless it was his inten- tion to make her his wife." "I beg, Mr. Dymocke," interrupted Miss Merri- field, " that you. will let all that pass. It was a dream  at the best, and like a dream has van- ished. No good can come of recalling it." "Indeed I must recall it," said Ilugh. "From the note I received from  you this morning, I find I have sunk low in your estimation; I would not have it so. I cannot afford to lose the esteem of one like yourself, and  I must make some effort to regain it. Please let ime go on." A  hard, stony look came into the lady's face. It had no business there: it wasiforeign to her nature; but she felt that Dymocke was about to makle some trifling excuses for his conduct towards her, and she hardened her heart, and resolved, that when he had exhausted himself in these vain efforts she would overwhelm him with an account of his perfidy, tear away the cloak' of deception in which she believed he was trying to con- ceal himself, and thus exposing him to scorn   104       OHARETTE. and shame, banish him from her presence for- Gver. (' I said," resumed Dymocke, " that my atten- tions to you were such as to give you good cause to believe it mny purpose to endeavor to make you my wife. Such was mny purpose; up to the time that this estrangement began,-there was no one whom I admired as I admired you; there was no one I loved as then I thought I loved you; I use the term advisedly, as I thought I loved you. For highly as I esteemed you--as I could not but esteemt you, beholding as I did the beauty of your person, knowing as I did the treasures of your mind, and feeling as I did the sweetness of your temper. Yet I did not love! That passion in all its intensity took pos- session of me in a moment; and you were not its object. Oh! it cannot pain you, if I speak to you of one who came to me like some heavenly joy, vouchsafed to me for a moment and then snatched away forever. You returned to me this morning a little gift I sent you on your last birthday-a trifling bit of lace. Ah! little did I think, when seeking it to give you pleasure, that it would lead to such dire results. Listen!" And then he told the story. It would be im- possible in printed words to give any idea of the pathos of his tones, or fitly describe the exquisite   -CHAIRETTE.      105 play of his features, the joy and love and agony pictured there, as in thrilling words he spoke of Jacqueline. As the story progressed, Miss Merrifield became intensely interested; she had no thought of self or of her wrongs, she was interested for her rival only; and when he spoke of Jacques, and she discovered the purity of that intercourse, how she detested-and loathed herself for the unfounded, suspicions that she had entertained; and how her heart filled with unutterable joy that her iqol was restored whole as before. This feeling, lifting her iup from the depths into which she had fal- len, gave her such relief, that the sting of Dy- mocke's lost love was entirely removed ; and when he told of Jacqueline's tragic end, divinest pity filled her heart, and, seizing his hands, shelex- claimed, A 01, Dymocke! how my heart bleeds for you!" and then as she grew calmer she con- tinued: "And now I come to you to sue for par- don! Oh, how I have wronged you! I had placed you in my imagination on a pedestal so high, and when I thought I had found a flaw in you, I cast you down into the dust. I went to your room in the steamer. I saw your poor head all mangled and bloody; and I heard your ravings, and I learned that Jacques was a woman-and your love. What cozld I think? 5'*   106       cuHARETE. Forgive me!  I wronged you and I wronged her." "You did indeed wrong her, if for a moment the merest shade of suspicion crossed your mind as to her purity; the Virgin Mother of our Lord was not more pure : but this you could not know. I forgive you, as you must forgive me for all the pain I may have caused you. And now let me make you what reparation I can; I am aware that I have comprominsed you in the eyes of the world. You know my story; my affections all lie buried in the unknown grave of that sweet girl. But if you will accept the lees of a broken heart, and the poor remnant of a purposeless life, what I have, I lay at your feet." "No, no, Dymocke, at least not now; wait till this great sorrow has softened, and we can see our way clearer. You have taken such a weight from my heart, that, were it not for your sufferings, I should be almost happy again. Oh, what agony it is to feel that one we love is unworthy! and what joy can equal that of his restoration to our y- esteem!" A gust of wind parted the mist that had envel- loped them as with a mantle. Through the opening shone the beams of the western sun; they fell full upon the form of the dear girl, so that a holy radiance seemed to surround her;   CHARETTE.       107 and as she bent her gaze upof Dymocke, stricken with sorrow and suffering, a painter might have sought to catch the expression there, to limn the divine pity that must have shone upon the Mas- ter's face, as Iis eyes rested upon the childless widow of zNain.   CHFTPT Ei V. URING all these weeks Archie Talbots R Ji demeanor towards his wife showed no improvement. He left her much alone, and often was unduly exacting and punctilious. Pressed for money, as a last resort he had written to his father-in-law, detailing his situation quite frankly, and asking assistance. The old gentle- inan's reply was somewhat curt. He suggested that the best thing for Archie to do was to put his shoulder to the wheel, and go to work; but he failed to pointt out any way in which a man, brought up as Archie had been, could, go about it. Still there was a P. S. to the letter that was more pleasing. It ran: a As I don't care to see my daughter's husband beholden to others so early in his wedded life, 1 enclose a check for $2,500 for current expenses.' Archie surveyed the check contemptuously, and then proceeded to have it cashed. Thle amount was so small, compared with :his debts,- that he concluded it was not worth while -fol any   CHAREETTE.       109) of it to go towards their liquidation, but it en- abled him to continue his tour mnore comfortably. And then, with a little money in his pocket, the old passion for gaming came back upon him strongly. At every hotel at which they stopped he would encounter some jolly companion of his -bachelor days, who would always suggest a " quiet little game."  But Archie resisted manfully, and was true to his word. Billiards was his only recreation.    Hie thought Lizzie did not give him sufficient credit for his sacrifice, and the restraint he was put- ting upon his inclination. And this, in part, was true, for she had no idea of the hold this passion for gaming has upon a man who has once yielded to its fascinations. She knew not the terrible or- deal through which he was passing, so, estrange- ment went on from day to day. The little endear- ments comlon   with the newly-married, were quietly dropped, and a somewhat formal inte'r- course substituted instead. Archie addicted him- self much to solitary rambles, often being absent the entire day. Almost, it seemed, as a matter of course, Vance was expected to take upon himself those duties towards the ladies, that Archie neglected, and this threw him and Mrs. Archie more and more to- gethel; until at length she accustomed herself   "O       CHARETTE. thoughtlessly to turn to him for many little at- tentions, which she should have sought of her husband. In one of his rambles, Archie came upon one of those agricultural fairs common in the au- tumn season in mnost country towns. As usual, a race-course was an adjunct of the same, and an exhibition of horse-flesh, formed one of the prime attractions.           The neighborhood was celebrated for some fa- mous breeds, and it was at once evident to Archie, that considerable interest was felt in the trial of speed to come off between some old well-known favorites, and some new aspirants for fame. Ar- chie himself, was no bad judge of the qualities of the noble animal; and mingling in the groups of farmers and country jockeys, was soon interested in their conversation regarding the respective mer- its of the different beasts. Among them was one boisterous fellow, evidently a well-to-do farmer, who was particularly loud in praise of -a colt that was then to make his first trial. He was eloquent in his account- of the ancestry of this young geld- ing, and the length of his pedigree would have nade many a scion of nobility hang his head. The fellow was flourishing a well-filled pocket- book, and offering to back his colt against the field for any amount. Archie had promised not   CHARETTE.       1" to bet on cards, but this promise, he argued, did not extend to betting on a horse-race; so when he saw this braggart bumpkin shaking his money about so loosely, he could not resist the tempta- tion to take him up for five hundred dollars, and fortunately he had the money by him. The race came off in due tiirme, and, to the dis- may of our rural frierid, not only did Lis favorite Alcibiades not win, but he was absolutely dis- tanced by the whole field. Never was there a man more crestfallen!  In his rage he kicked his poor dumb beast, and whereas, before the race, he talked of the fabulous sums he was to realize from his sale, now he offered allnost to give him awav. Archie had watched the movements of Alci- biades closely, and was convinced that there- was more in him than appeared: that his owner had made a mistake in trying to make a trotter of him, and that if he was destined for the turf, it was under the saddle, and not in harness, that he would excel. He determined to purchase the beast, and tak- ing advantage of the farmer's disgust, absolutely bought him  for the five hundred dollars he had won out of his owner. The trotting over, a hurdle race was improvised, mnd Archie asked permission to enter Alcibia- les. This was readily granted. Borrowing a sad-   "2       CHARETTE. dle and bridle, he stripped off his coat and waist- coat, and mounted his horse himself.' He was no indifferent rider, and the colt soon found he- had his master. Alcibiade took the lead -at the start: hurdle after hurdle was met and cleared, and Archie came in ahead of the field. The multitude set up a shout of applause. On the second heat, Archie, who had before been somewhat cautious, determined to allow his horse to do his best, and the consequence was the whole field was absolutely distanced, and among them were some noble animals. The shout that followed made the welkin ring. Alcibiades's late owner tore his hair in his vexation and chagrin, and Archie was offered one thousand dollars for his bargain. This he re- fused. "No," he said to himself, "I'll -keep the beast. My dear father-in-law suggested that I should go to work to earn my living. I'll do it! This horse shall be my stock-in-trade, and with him I will either rise or fall." He sought and found- a suitable person to take him in charge, and- train him for the course. Soinewhat elated with the events of the day, he took his way back to the hotel, which he did not reach until far into the night. The most of the guests had retired. Mrs. Ar-   CHARETTE.        113 chie, however, was still up, awaiting her husband. The moonlight lay soft upon the south piazza, and here, wrapped in a warml mantle, she was seated. Vance was too considerate to allow her to sit all alone; therefore he too had foregone the pleasure of an early sleep, and was by her side. Archie greeted them cordially; the success of the day had made him more cheerful, and in his tones, as he spoke to his wife, there was more of the lover than usual. At this Mrs. Archie's heart gave a leap of jy, and with pleased attention she listened to his re- cital of the day's adventures. Archie now devoted himself to" business " with comrmendable assiduity. Every day found him at the village, superintending the training of Alcibiades. More and more he was pleased with the fine qualities that his horse developed, and he was soon firmly convinced that it was no ordinary animal he had in his possession. One morning, however, he was greatly alarmed for fear that, after all, he would have to part with him, for on arriving at the stable he found-him in possession of the sheriff. A Jew, to whonm in his distress he had applied for assistance, and who now held a considerable amount of his I O U's, which he had given for loans at most ,        W   "4       CIIARETTE. usurious rates of interest, had tracked him out, and finding him the owner of something of value, had sued out a writ of attachment. Archie was in great distress; he sought out his creditor, and offered to renew the notes on any terms, but the Jew was inexorable. I e had dis- covered enough to know that Alcibiades was likely to'prove of great value, and he determined to have his pay or the horse. At last Archie suggested a second name on the notes, and thought of Dymocke. The Jew con- sented to accompany him to the hotel, but evi- dently with little expectation that anything would come of it. Archie got him up to his room 'un- perceived, and went in search of Dymocke; told him what his hopes were in regard to Alcibiades, and at last asked him to go his security. This Dymocke consented to do, and accompanied Archie to his room, and on entering found him- self face to face with his old acquaintance Moses. The recognition was mutual-but this Moses tried to conceal, and when Archie mentioned Mr. Dy- mocke's name, he bowed as if he was a stranger. This, Hugh noticed, and it gave him an advan- tage, as it was clear to him that Moses held him in some fear. The question of Archie's indebtedness was dis- cussed, and the Jew insisted upon holding his I           *   .   CHARETTE.       115'     ' bond of flesh-he would keep the horse or have his money. Dymocke asked to see the evidence of the in- debtedness: these Moses drew from a greasy, well-stuffed pocket-book. He looked them over carefully. 'Have all these notes the requisite govern- ment stamps ?" he inquired, glancing up at the Jew. "Oh! yes, yes, a fifty-cent shtamp to every tousand dollar," replied Moses. "Oh! I only inquired frolm curiosity. I thought perhaps that they who live by avoiding the pay- ment of one description of taxes, might be un- scrupulous as to others." "Misihter Dymocke is pleased to talk in rid- dles." Riddles, that you can solve well enough, good Moses. Archie, turn the key in your door. Now, how much money have you probably had on these pieces of paper ?" "Possibly about half what they represent." "I thought as much! How much time would you like to have on new notes, in case our good friend consents to renew?"2 "Twelve months will do; by that time I shall be in a position to retire them, or they will be worthless."   "6       OCHAR:tlrTE. "You hear, IMoses? here are writing materials; write out new notes, and destroy these." "Good Mishter Dymocke vill put his pretty signature on the back of them ."  "INot at all, Moses; I am not in the commer- cial way. The new notes will be as good as the old ones." "But, my dear friends, I can't do dis. I vill hold, the horse, and so get my pay." "Don't haggle, Moses'; you and I understand each other. Mr. Sheriff can serve other writs, besides those relating to horse-flesh." Moses gave a sigh: he knew he was in Dymocke's power. Reluctantly he wrothe out other notes, and destroyed the old ones, and went with the two young men to, the sheriff's office, and executed the papers that released Alcibiades. This unpleasant occurrence induced a change of plans. Archie knew he had plenty more cred- itors, who might follow Moses' example, and from whom he could not hope to escape so easily; therefore he determined to take his horse into Canada, and keep him there until the fall races at Jerome Park. Besides, there were some races in contemplation at Montreal, at which it might be well to try Alcibiades' mettle. Canada is not famous for devotion to the turf; but, just now, a son of the Queen, a prince of England, was    CHARETTE.       117 making a tour of the Dominion, and the officers of the British army stationed at Montreal were get- ting up races by way of entertainment. Archie therefore suggested to his friends, that they should crown their summer tour, by a short sojourn in that pleasant city, where the ladies could gratify their curiosity by a glimpse of roy- alty. The idea pleased all. A few hours run by rail, and they were safely installed at "St. Law- rence Hall." The next day Alcibiades and his groom ap- peared. To an American, accustomed to the cities south of the border, Montreal appears some- what quaint: its narrow streets, the sombre style of its architecture, the constant ringing of church bells, the never-ending names of saints on the street corners, and the general religious aspect of the place, has in it something of medievalism; but it is a pleasant city withal, at least in the  summer time and doubtless in the winter, when, bound in icy fetters and surrounded by moun- tainous piles of snow, it has its peculiar pleasures. To the ladies of the party, its shops seemed the principal attraction, and to Dymocke, who had had such a recent experience with smugglers, the little display of feminine art, by which a few trumpery articles were to be surreptitiously taken   "8    .   .CARETIrE. into the States, was infinitely amusing, as were not, the sophistical arguments by which they at- tempted to quiet their consciences in so doing. Archie's time was entirely taken up with A1- cibiades, and preparing for the coming races. The ladies had an unwearying attendant in Vance; and Dymnocke, not taking particularly to Carew or Stanhope, had 'nany idle hours on his hands. This accorded with his humor, and he would stroll alone about this quaint town--con- versing with its habitans in their mixed dialect, dropping into the churches at all hours,/visiting nunnleries, and familiarizing himself to some ex- tent with the workings of their educational and charitable institutions. At the close of a lovely day, he entered the Cathedral of Notre Dame. One candle only gleamed from the chancel, and the light from the departing sun but feebly illumined the vast inte- rior. A holy stillness reigned, only broken by the footfalls of those who came to kneel before altar or shrine, and offer an evening prayer. We Protestants call this superstition, but to Dymocke, as he stood leaning against one of those massive columns that support the fretted roof, and marked the devout bearing of the worship- pers-here a tired artisan homeward bound from his daily toil, there a poor servant-girl, her heart   CHUARETT.       119 full of that home in the green island she had left; by her side her mistress perchance, fired of the inanities of "i frivolous life, it seemed the very poetry of religion; and he felt there was a cold- ness in a faith that kept the doors of its places of worship closely barred, save on the Sabbath day, while there are many thousand weary hearts who fain would pass a few moments of every day in silent communion within consecrated walls. A light step, and the touch of a dress, as a female brushed past him, awoke Hugh from his reverie. There was yet sufficient light for him to see that the figure wore the dress of a religieuse or nun, but with those distinguishing marks which showed her yet but a novice, or one still under probation. She passed up the aisle and knelt at the con- fessional. The secrets of the confessional are sacred; but no harm can come now in repeating the substance of the interview between this novice and her confessor. He was concealed from view, but the remain- ing light of departing day fell full upon the face of the kneeling penitent. "Daughter!?" came in a deep, full voice from within, " how is this? Alone, and at this hour?"   120        HARETTE. "Father, I had permission from the Lady Superior, and I entered at the garden postern. Old Joseph there awaits my' return."- "And what unwonted reason brings my daughter here at this unaccustomed hour? If I mistake not, it was but yesterday you confessed and received absolution."  "True, Father! but I came not now to confess. Oh, Father! I have seen him! he lives!" "He do not speak in riddles! Who lives?" "Who! There is but one who, and one he. It is he I confessed to you that I loved: Dymocke. tie lives!" "Impossible! Your fancy has deceived you. Antoine said he received blows enough to kill twenty mortal men." "The Holy Virgin be praised, he was mis- taken! -Hugh Dymocke was at St. Joseph's Chapel yesterday at even song. .y own eyes saw him. Oh Father, in pity hear me! Release- me from my vows! You know how it was:; weak and feeble from my wounds, believing Dymocke in the cold grave, I consented to renounce the world and entered upon my novi- tiate. But all this has changed. The healthy blood again courses through my veins. Dymocke is alive; my heart is with him. Should I now take the irrevocable vows it would be with a lie   CHAIRET.'We.     121 upon my lips: my heart would be still in the world where Dymocke is, my imagination would be constantly filled with his dear image. I can- not, dare not do it, Father!" A deep groan came from the confessional. "The holy saints forbid that I should seek to force an unwilling soul to take those sacred vows. But, daughter, you know not what you forego. Within yonder convent walls are quiet and peace and holy rest; without, are suffering, tribulation, and toil." "It may be so, holy Father; so it seemed to me but yesterday. To-day the convent seems a prison, dark and dlrear. Without, all is bright- ness and joy!" "Poor, mistaken child! I sorrow for you, and I sorrow for myself. I must again take up the heavy cross I thought I had laid down forever. If you again go out into the world, your mother's fair name must be vindicated, for till then you can  never. be any honest man's wife. The warfare must be renewed; you know what my efforts have been in your behalf, and what my hopes and wishes were; and when I saw them all overthrown, as I supposed by your untimely death, I thought the hand of the Lord was in it, and I made a vow, if you were restored to life, that I would forget the past and dedicate you to   122       AHARETTrE. His holy service. This is not to be. Your incli- nation shall not be forced." "Oh forgive and pardon, my Father, for all the trouble I have brought upon you. For your k ind care of the poor orphan, God and His angels reward you!" "Let us now think of the future. There remains of the money realized from the sale of your mother's wardrobe, some three or four thousand dollars. This I had thought to devote to some pious purpose on the day that you should take the veil. But now it must be used in a seemingly more worldly, but perhaps in an equally righteous cause. I have orders from my metropolitan, transferring me to New York. This seems providential. Thither you must also go: there we will again resume the struggle, and God assist us! for our cause is just. And now, my daughter, it waxeth late for you to be out. Confess your most secret thoughts that tend to sin, and so thou mayst depart with my blessing." The fair penitent bowed her head, and absolu- tion followed confession. Long ere this Dymocke had turned to leave the building; and as he did so, he caught a view, through the partly open door by which Jacqueline had entered, of the garden attlched   CILARETTE.      123 to the bishop's palace. This garden is hid from the outer world by high and massive stone walls, but the little glimpse that Hugh caught attracted him, and he approached the pestern. Joseph, the superannuated gardener, stood near, waiting the novice's return. Dymocke gave him a polite "good-evening," and extolled the flowery beauties that he could see. Old Joseph was proud of his garden, and like mont old men, garrulous. He returned Dymocke's salutation cordially, and swung wider open the door that he might disclose more of the beauties of the place. It was a fair spot, in admirable order, and gorgeous with its wealth of autumn flowers. Although it was contrary to instruction, old Joseph allowed Dymocke to pass through the doorway,n'd descanting upon his favorite theme, led the way down a wide gravelled walk, from shrub to shrub, and from flower to flower, until they were near the centre of the enclosure. Here the two stood, examining some rare shrub about which Joseph was eagerly discoursing, when Jacqueline, confession over, entered the garden on her way back to the convent. Sup- psing herself free from observation, she raised her veil the better to enjoy the evening air. She saw and recognized Dymocke. How her I   124        CHRETTE. heart beat! She noticed the solmbre color of the garments he had on, and wondered if it was in memory. of her that they were worn. Hastily she lowered her veil: no scandal must come upon the holy order of virgins by any action of hers; and this was not the place to reveal her- self to her lover. It was evident, however, that she must pass him. Stooping, she gathered a small cluster of flowers. With drooping head and veil closely drawn, she approached the spot where he stood. Truisting to Joseph's failing sight and infirmity of hearing, as she passed IHugh slie handed him the flowers, whispering: ' There's rosemary; that's for remembrance!" -iHugh started: the voice was somewhat muf- fled by the veil, yet the tones thrilled him. Fain ;would he have replied, but before he could : collect hirnself, she was out of sight. "Come, sir," said Joseph, "my watch is over; I must close." "Who was the lady who passed us just now?" asked Dymocke. "Some novice from the nunnery: she has been to confession to good Father Guardet. She will soon take the veil, I suppose." "Know you her name . " "' Not I--I know the names of all my flowers, but of the sisters I know nothing. Come, sir:   CHARETTE.       -125 I would not be riude, but it grows 'late, and I (nust close." HuIgh gave the old man a generous gratuity, and bade him  good-night, the voice and the words'of the novice still in his ears: "' There's rose- mary,-that's for remembrance!"  In his room that night the voice haunted him strangely: How like Jacquelines'! Could it be she? Impos- sible! the seeming similarity must be but a trick of his fancy: but he took out the little withered bunch of wild-flowers he had gathered on the place of her cruel death,' and beside them laid those he had received from the sister, repeating again and again, "' There's rosemary: that's for rtI3embrane!"' After this, during all the time of their stay in the city, he haunted cathedral and cloister. He never gained entrance again to the bishpp's gar- -  en, but often he would climb up those weary stairs to the top of the tower of Notre Dame, which overlooked the same; and he attended- every public service when the sisters would ap- pear; scanning every form and every, face, but inl -no manner could he discover who it was that had given him the flowers. ' And now the bells ring out a joyous peal! Now the loud-mouthed, cannon thunders, till   126        CHARETTE. buildings tremble, and distant hills reverberate the sounid. Now martial music salutes the ear, land- loud huzzas rend the skies. For he comes, this English prince, and loyal Qanada gives him greeting! St. George's proud banner waves from turret and steeple, and welcome shines in every face. Maany festivities were preparing. Our gentle- men were mostly interested in the races, for which Alcibiades was duly entered; and the ladies in a masquerade-ball for which they were busily arranging costumes. Tlhe scenes and incidents of a race-course have been too often and too well described, to render it necessary to go into any particulars of this one at Decker Park. The course was indifferent: the horses entered had no history; the time made was poor. It, however, gave Archie Talbot an opportunity of testing somewhat the qualities of Alcibiades, and, on the whole, he was pleased. He won the cup, took his share of the gate money, and made a few honest dollars on bets. He also engaged a new groom--one Jean Coyer - :who was well recommended. The race over, the gentlemen took their way , back to the hotel to prepare for the ball. Dymocke had no heart for such gayeties, and had   OHARETTE.       127 early announced his intention of remaining away; but the ladies planned it otherwise. It was their wish to conceal their costumes from the gentlemen of their party, but they did not fancy being alone, among almost strangers, as , it were. So they insisted thlat Dymocke should accomrpally them in usual evening costume, un- lnasked, that they might seek his protection, should any unexpected elnergency arise requiring Hugh found some difficulty in obtaining en- trance, his dress not being ez reygle, but he sent his card to olle of the managers with whom he was acquainted (and frolm whom, in fact, our friends had received their cards of invitation), in- forminllg him of the circumstances; and througl courtesy to him, as a stranger, this favor was granted, which would have been denied to a citi- zen. This very absence of mask and costume, rendered him the more conspicuous, and he soon found himself a target for the jests of harlequins and clowns, and also for a little badinage from saucy gills, who, sheltered behind'their masks, feared not to indulge in a little rudeness. A few months ago this would have been but sport for him; now, however, he was not equal to it, and he was glad to get into a corner where he would be less observed. By and by, the prince   128       CHARETTE. and his mentor, the stern duke, appeared. They  also were unmasked. This drew off the attention of the crowd, and Dymocke was left in compara- tive quiet.  We have nothing to do with the sayings and doings of princes: these we leave to poets-laureate and newspaper scribes; our record is of the less lofty ones. Dymocke, from  his "coign of vantage," amused himself with the gay scene, before him.  It differed in nothing from that usual on such occasions: the same music, the same lights, the same flowers, the same run of costumes. Hugh's  principal amusement was in watching the move- ments of his own friends. He knew the costume  of each, and he could see the efforts each was making to identify the other. He saw poor Vance--who had made himself liideous by stuff- ing himself into a pair of red breeches, and a velveteen jacket a world too small for him, and calling himself a brigand-go prowling about in search of Mrs. Archie, who was displaying her charms in a bewitching costume of a Bohemian. peasant girl, cut low in the corsage and short in the skirts, which enabled her to show a pair of dainty feet and trim ankles in a manner to set wild many a poor bachelor. He saw Vance constantly getting on the wrong f,   COARETTE.       129 trail, and then turn away in disgust when assured of his mistake. At last uIIgh saw him approach- ing, and guessed his purpose. "Hugh, old fellow, do me a good turn ! I have a wager with Mrs. Arehie that I will dis- cover her before the removing of masks at supper-time. Just give me a little hint; that's a good fellow !" " See you yonder Quakeress ? Look under that close-fitting cap, and see if you do not find those fair locks, which, if displayed, would render all disguise useless." Vance pranced off happy, and soon led the de- mure Quakeress out for a waltz. Now appears the Bohemian girl-the true Mrs. Archie: "Please, Mr. Dymocke, I know Mr. Vance is trying to find me, for we have a little wager about it: please give me just a little hint that I may avoid him." " See you yonder jockey in buckskin breeches and skull-cap ?  Avoid him if you would avoid Vance." Alas for female veracity! The music sounded a waltz, and Mrs. Archie was whirling wildly in the jockey's arms. The measure done, Dymocke saw brigand and peasant approach. "Hugh, you scoundrel!" began the brig- and.  130       CHARETTE. Mr. Dymocke, you faithless man!" said the Bohemienne. "There," said Hugh, laughing, " say no more. Vance, behold those auburn locks. Mrs. Archie, look upon that matchless form. There, a cotillon is forming; be off!-  "You have lost your wager," said Mrs. Archie, taking Vance's arm. "Iow so? have I not found you?." "You found me, indeed, when Mr. Dymocke told you! How blind you must be! Didn't I give you every chance by hanging out this red light?" and she shook her fair auburn curls co- quettishy.  l "I'll pay without a murmur, if you will give me the next two round dances." "That shall -depend uponnthe grace with which you dance the first one." Dymocke had scarce sent these two away, when a figure representing Night drew near. Heri dark dress was bedecked with stars, and a crescent moon shone upon her forehead.        I "Please, Mr. Dymocke," came, in the timid voice of one of the Misses Wyeth, from beneath the mask, "please, Mr. Dymocke, I don't know any one here, and I find this very tiresome. Won't you please point out Mr. Stanlhope to me?"   CHARETTE.       131 Dymocke's first impulse was to send the little maiden off on a ';wild-goose hunt," as he had done Mrs. Archie; but remembering her youth, he refrained. "See you yonder pilgrim, with the rough staff and the cross embroidered in white upon his shoulderi?-he who is talking with the gypsy. That. is he."' "Tha;nk you, Mr. Dymnocke; you are very kind; " and the little girl tripped off to take ad- vantage of her knowledge. No sooner had Nox departed, than Aurora, bright goddess of the morn, in roseate mantle clad, appeared. "Please, Mr. Dymocke," came in the tones of the other Miss Wyetli, "won't you tell me how Mr. Stanhope is dressed? I want to play a little trick upon him." "Follow your sister; she has already made the discovery." A faint little sigh came from beneatli Aurora's mask, and she too went in search of Mr. Stan- hope. Archie Talbot nowappeared. He had simply thrown a monk's cowl over his usual dress. Ile came up lalughing. "I have a good joke on my wife, Dymocke," he said; " by accident I discovered her costume,   132       CHARETTE. and I saw her dancing in quite a gushing way with a young jockey; curlious to learn who the fellow was, when the dance ended I followed him, got into conversation, and invited him to the smoking-room. Here he at once removed his mask, and to my surprise, not to say my disgust, revealed the features of my new groom, Jean Coyer."  "Impossible! you must be mistaken. I under- stood only the very elite could obtain cards." "I have made no mistake; it was Jean Cover, certain. Fortunately I had not unmasked, so he did not know me. I handed the fellow a cigar, and suddenly remembered I had an engagement on the floor." "Have you seen him since?" "Yes; he followed me back, and I saw him in close conversation with a nun, in a manner which convinced me she was of his party. When he left her, I drew near. As my wife had danced with my groom, I thought I might with his conm- panion, My manner, I confess, was a little swag- gering, and I said something about monks and nuns being ' birds of a feather,' forgetting I was in a Catholic city. The little chit, though dis- guised in that hideous dress, drew herself up lilke a princess, and although the tones of her voice were as sweet as a bird's, the biting sarcasm of   CHARETTE.       133 her reply cut to the quick, and I slunk off like a whipped cur. I never did have any brass with the women!"' i. Dymocke smiled at Archie's discomfiture, and advised him to go and look after his wife. By and by Miss Merrifield drew near. She was leaning on the arm of Cecil Carew, whose fine figure was displayed to full advantage in the costume of the Master of Ravenswood. Amid all that array of elegant women, Miss Merrifield stood peerless, for her matchless for1xm, her su- perb carriage, and the richness of her costume. Although the envious mask still concealed her face, she was the cynosure of every eye, and even the prince had sought the honor of her hand in the dance. Her dress, of the richest silk, was after the fashion of the court of Louis XI V., and was trimmed with a profusion of lace-the point antique de Venise, that had again found its way into her possession. "I am a trifle fatigued," she said, releasing the arm of her companion, "and will rest 'awhile. Do not let me detain you, Mr. Carew, from the pleasures of the evening. I will sit here by Mr. Dymocke."   Carew bowed and withdrew, but with steps so slow, it was evident he knew not where else to turn to find that pleasure. "I suppose it is superfluous to ask Miss Merri-   134       OHARETTE. field how she has enjoyed the evening," said Dy- mocke, as he seated himself beside her. "To dance with a queen's son would give many young ladies a theme for conversation for a month.!' "It might me, too, could I suppose oit was to me the compliment was paid," replied the young lady. "As my charms were most effectually con- cealed, I can only take it, the prince intended to compliment my mantua-maker. And now this absurd mask, as if not satisfied with the mischief it has done, is galling my cheek badly. Please stand before me, that I may remove it unper- ceived, to see if I cannot adjust it better." Dymnocke stationed himself so as to shield her to some extent from the view of the passers, and she removed her mask. The excitement of the dance had brought the warm  blood into her cheeks, and she looked more than usually beauti- ful. Dymocke's face expressed admiration. A faint sigh met his ear: glancing round, he saw the figure of a nun seated in a corner near by, and he wondered. if it was she who gave it breath. In trying to readjust her mask, Miss M}errifield disarranged her hair, and the more she worked with it the worse its plight becamre. At last spy- ing the nun, she applied to her for assistance, which was readily granted. In aiding Miss Mer-.   CHARETTE.       135 rifield, the nun displayed a hand which Dymocke remarked was transparently fair, as of onerlwho had had a long sickness, and Kate Merrifield noted that from beneath the mask shone a pair of most beautiful dark eyes. With her nimble fingers she soon had the dis- ordered coiffure in order. As she smoothed the fair locks, she whispered, "Mademoiselle is very beautiful! it must be- a great pleasure to be so beautiful!!" Miss Merrifield, used as she was to complimlent4,.blushed at this from one of her own sex. A flower-girl passed, singing "Buy my flow- ers-buy my flowers--buy my flowers!" In ar- ranging some of the decorations of the room a scaffolding had fallen, precipitating a workman to the floor, killing him instantly. He left a wife and young family. The lady managers were deeply interested in them, and had given several young ladies per- mission to vend bouquets during the evening, the avails to be for the benefit of the stricken widow and her children. This was understood by the guests, and the young flower-venders found ready sales and lib- eral prices. Dymocke stopped the one who was now passing, and taking her basket frolm her hanlds, presented   CHAEETTE. it to Miss Merrifield and her assistant, requesting them to select such as would please them. Miss Merrifield took a spray of scarlet geranium and placed it in her hair. The nun was not so easily suited: she turned over the whole contents of the basket before she found what she wanted; then taking up a bunch of heart's ease, she handed it to Dymocke, saying: "There's pansies-that's for thoughts! " then passing to Kate a sprig of some herb, she said: " There's rue for yo , and here's some for me.' DyMnocke was confounded: the connection of the words with those he had heard in the bishop's garden seemed too close to be accidental. As to the voice, the mask disguised it too much for him to determine if it was the same or not. As before, he was taken too much by surprise to make any immediate reply; and before he had recovered himself and paid the flower-girl, the nun had dis- appeared. Dymocke would have sought her at once, but politeness to Miss Merrifield prevented. As soon as he could release lhimself he did so. I-e looked about him and saw scores of nuns. He addressed the first he encountered. Her voice was harsh and disagreeable. This was not she. He tried them all by turns, but made no discovery.  At supper, when unmasking was general, he scanned   OHARETTE.   137   the face of each one in this costume ; in ribne did he recognize any one he had ever seen; Archie Talbot stood beside him. "Have you seen your groom again," inquired Dymocke. No, I have looked for him here; not that I care for him, but I would like to know what that little chit of a nun is like. But as he is not here, I cannot tell which of this vast sisterhood is the particular she." Dyinocke wondered if it could be his nun that Archie was seeking. The music has ceased. Put out the lights. Back to your rooms, ye truants, and pack your trunks. The summer vacation is ended, and to- morrow you turn your faces homeward.    CHAPTER VI. EFORE leaving Montreal Archie Talbot consuilted Cecil Carew as to how he coftld avoid having Alcibiades seized, for debt on returning to the States. Carew advised him to transfer the ownership to some trusty friend. Accordingly a bill of sale was mtde olt, by which, for a nominal considera- tion, Tom Vance became the seeming owner of that piece of horse-flesh. At the same time another legal document was executed, the terms of which were that Vance leased Alcibiades to Talbot, he, the said Talbot, to be responsible for the expense of keeping him, and to be entitled to all profits and emnoltu- nents to be derived from his use. - Thus, feeling himself secure from further an- noyalnce of the kind he had received from Moses, Archie wrote to the Secretary of. the Jerome Park Jockey Club, asking permission to enter his horse for the fall races, and stating that he would be in   CHARETTE.       139 New York in a few days, and would call ill per- son for an answer. For several days after his arrival in that city, however, he was busy seeking a suitable place in which to keep and train Alcibiades. He wished this to be near the city, that- he might go to and fro daily, and yet sufficiently isolated to keep off idle and meddling curiosity. Finally he decided upon a farm in New Jersey, and thither Alcibiades was taken by his groom, young Jean Coyer. This done, Archie called upon the Secretary of the Jerome Jockey Club, and was courteously in- formed that the field for the fall races was made up, and that there would be no further entries. Archie went home much disappointed. At a meeting of the managers, however, that same evening, it, was announced that one of the horses entered was ailing, and- would be withdrawn. In the discussion that followed, Archllie's note was produced and read. He had some friends in the directory, and they advocated the granting of his wish. "We have all known Talbot in his better days," they argued, " and when he was in funlds, no man ever spent his money with a freer hand, or was more honorable in his transactions. This horse he wishes to enter probably don't amount to much, but the fact that he has run at Jerome Park may   "O     C, IARETTE. help -him upon the country courses. Besides,"-- and here the worser side of human nature came out-"Old Rich won't last forever; he is a little shaky on his pins now, and if Talbot should have the handling of the old miser's money-bags there would be some good pickings for needy turfites." g    The consequence of all this was, that the next day Archie received a note. from the courteous secretaryr,to the effect that Lady Betty having been withdrawn, his- horse Alcibiades was sub- stituted in her place for the great race of the sea- son, viz.: for the Maynard purse of ten thousand dollars, four-mile heat. Now, in this race much interest was felt by the sporting gentry, and this interest was gradually extending to the great public; for those heroes of the turf, Lord Nelson and Flambeau, who had won fame and honor on many a well-contested field, were for the first time to be pitted against each other. To fill up the field, stars of lesser magnitude were allowed to appear, viz.: Dandy Dinmont, Charles O'Malley, and now Alcibiades. In the next week's issue of the gentleman's Paper appeared this announcement: "The following horses have been entered as contestants for the Maynard Purse of $10,000, to be run at the Jerome Park Course, Oct. 30.   CHARETTE.         141 'ONE HEAT OF FOUR MLES. Mr. Henry St. Andre, Flambeau, b. m., 5 years, by the Marquis out of Worcester, 185 bs............... H. Wear. Mr. S.- Stafford, Lord Nelson, ch. h., 6 years, by Montana out of Imogene, 175 lbs ........................... Tait. Mr. Sinclair, Dandy Dinmont, b. h., 4 years, out of Sy- corax, 161 Ibs ................... ....... Jas. Elis. Mr. Elwell, Charles O'Malley, g. h., 5 years, out of Tilson, 154 lbs ............................ ...... . ..... Adsit. Mr. A. Talbot, Alcibiades, blk. g., 4 years, pedigree un- known, 170 lbs ...................   J. Coyer." This official announcement was the signal for  sporting men to commence operations, and ac- cordingly pool-selling and betting were soon in Ifu ll blast. Of course all the interest was concentrated on- Flambeau and Lord-Nelson, the bets running about even on the two, although in the pools Flambeau had the call, Dinmont, Charles O'Mal- ley and Alcibiades going at some nominal sum, and in most of the pools selling in a lump as the Fiqeld against the two champions. Some little flutter was created when a new horse like Alcibiades was introduced, but the sporting gentry soon ascertained all there was to know about himn, and then the interest ceased. Archie now went to work in earnlesf.    Every   "2        CHARETrrE. day saw him at the farm  superintending the training of Alcibiades. With Jean Coyer he was well pleased. At first he thought of engag- ing a professional trainer, but Coyer showed sulch skill that he concluded to trust entirely to him; the more: especially as employing a pro- fessional might make public some of the quali- ties of his horse that he was desirous of conceal- ing. The nights saw him at the hotels, saloons and meeting places of the sporting fraternity where betting and pool-selling went on. He had- about fifteen hundred dollars left of his father-in-law's present. He watched the pools carefully, and whenever the Field, as against the champions, sold particularly cheap, he would take it, and at such rates that when he put down hundreds he stood to take up thousands. In this way he in- vested his fifteen hundred dollars, and was hard pushed to raise money for his daily expenses. When old Mr. Rich discovered that his son-in- law had become a sport, a companion of jockeys and horse men,-he was furious; he forbade him to appear in his presence, positively refused to assist him in any way, and when any of Archie's creditors came importuning, he sent them pack- ing. All this while the position of Tizzie was most   CHARETTE.       143 uncolmfortable: from her father she heard noth- ing but reproaches for her unfortunate marriage; from her friends and acquaintances she was forced to receive condolences; and from Archie she got only neglect. His mind was preoccupied, and his time employed from  early morn until far into the night, so that he failed to mark the change that was coming over her--how the once bright face -had become saddened, how the bloom was fading from her cheek, and how dark circles were gath- ering beneatIr her eyes. As to his father-in-law, Archie expressed only contempt when the sayings of that worthy were reported to him. His ire was aroused, and he would bite his lips and mrnutter to himself, "The old beggar will sing a different song if this ven- ture wins; he won't turn up his nose at the mloney if it is won on a horse-race; and he will soon convince his conscience that it is just as honest money as hig that has been made by stock gambling : and so it is!" Late one night Archie was wending his way home from his nightly haunts; he was feeling particularly annoyed. The excitement about the cominig races, instead of abating, was increasing from hour to hour, and the names of Flambeau -ald Nelson were in every mouth. The remainder   D144      oC BHrE. of the field was almost entirely ignored, and that night had sold particularly cheap; but, as Archie had no more money, he could not take advantage of this, and here was one cause of his annoy- ance. Full of his own thoughts, he did not observe Athat he was followed. Passing a concert saloon -that was open unusually late, the light from the open doors and windows fell full upon him, when the person who had been dogging his steps for some time, as if he had but waited to be sure of his identity, plucked the sleeve of his coat; turning, Archie recognized his old- acquaintance, Moses the Jew. "Ah! my ill-omened bird!' he said, "you are flying late. What quarry have you in view now?" "Ah! Mishter Talbot!" responded Moses, " you always vould have your leetle joke. It vas you I was looking for." "Me ' why what do you want with me? My notes are not due these tenll months." "I have some leetle information for you: I hear you are going to run your horse for the Maynard stakes, and that you are betting on him. Do you expect to vin ." "It appears to me Moses that you are seeking information instead of imparting it. But I will be frank with you, for I know you have an in-  \'    CHARETmt.       145 terest in me, for, if I win, those little IOU's of mine that you hold will be of some value; if 1 lose, they are not worth the paper they are written on. Frankly, then, my expectation of winning is not great; still there is a chance, and by risking a little I may make a good deal. Do you see, Moses?" "Yes, I sees. Ilow much monies have you  bet ." "Only fifteen hundred dollars; all I ad.'5 "If you had more vould you risk him " aEvery cent." "Vell, vy don't you borrow him then a? "Ha-ha! pretty good! Moses, will you lend me some s?"  "Ye-es, on good security." "Oh, I will give you the very best--my note. What amount shall I make it for-ten thousand?" 'Oh no, no! not ten; I vill lend you tree tousand dollars, and take a mortgage on your horse-vat you call him?-Alcibiades." Archie's troubles had made him suspicious, and the thought flashed through his mind that Moses was but making this offer to get him to acknowl- edge himself as still the owner of Alcibiades, so he replied, "Vance is now the fortunate possessor of Alcibiades."- "Yes, I -know. Perhaps, to accommodate a 7   '-  146       CHARETT'E. friend, Mishter Vance vould execute the mort- gage." "Perhaps so," said Archie. "Now, Moses, let , me hear the terms 2 " "Vell, I vill lend you tree tousand dollar. I vill take, as security, a mortgage on Alcibiades,; the loan to be repaid the day after the race; if not paid, I to have the horse, vith dis further condition, Mishter Talbot, that if you vins you shall pay me at vonce, not only the tree tousand dollar, but all the other notes I hold of yours." Archie at once comprehended Moses' object; he had probably satisfied himself that the horse 3ras worth three thousand dollars, so that he ran no rsk in making this further advance, and by doing so he perhaps might secure all the debt. Then Archie reflected on his own situation; he was desperate, and had resolved to risk all his fu- ture on this cast; should he fail, he well knew there was no resurrection for him; he could not- now withdraw from the contest, even if he wished it; he was in so deep that returning was as tedious as' to go o'er. So turning to Moses, he accepted his offer, and made an appointment to meet him in the morning with Vance, at Cecil Carew's office, and have the necessary papers drawn up. "Now, Moses," said Archie, as they were sepa- "   (HARETTE.       147 rating, "you said you had some information for me. What is it?'."  Moses whispered, "Flacmbeau is overturned; it is an even chance that she will break down be- fore the last mile. Good-night." Archie went home pondering. Flambeau overtrained! This was great news! Archie was awiare of the Jew's prying disposition, how he was loaning money to many turf men, and that he was well posted in all that was going on in the sport- ing world. As to Alcibiades, Archie had sub- jected him to severe tests; he had not only given evidence of great speed, but--which in a long race is of equal importance-great bottom; nothing seemed to tire him. -If Flambeau should break down! that would be a great point gained, although there was still Lord Nelson. "But enough for to-night," said Archie, as he inserted his latch-key in his father-in-law's hall door and crept softly uf to his room. The gas burned low, but there was stifficient light to re- veal all the room contained. Lizzie was asleep, and the luxuriant masses of her auburn hair contrasted strongly with the pure white pillow on which her fair head rested. Archie approached the bed-side, and now, for the first time, he was sensible of the change that   "8       CIIARETTE. had come upon her. Even in'sleep there was a look of pain upon her face, and he noticed how pale she was. A great pang shot through his heart, and a dimness, as from a tear, came over his sight. "Alas, poor girl," he murmured softly, "I have proved a sad husband. Well, well, a little while longer and all shall be well-for you. If once I am free from these harassing debts, I will be a man again; if I lose (opening a bureat drawer and taking from it a. tiny revolver), this will re- lease you and make all even." The next morning Archie met Moses according to appointment; the papers were duly executed, and Archie found himself in possession of three thousand dollars. With this money in his pocket he reflected whether he had better go on and risk it all on Alcibiades, as he had done the fifteen hundred dollars; or, taking advantage of Moses' information regarding Flambeau, hedge by stak- ing part on Lord Nelson; then, if Nelson won, he might come out about even; if Alcibiades, still largely ahead. Before deciding, he concluded to take one more look at his horse, and question Coyer closely as to his opinion. With this in view, he took an afternoon train for the farm. His visits heretofore had been in the morning, and Coyer was accustomed to meet him with a   CHARETTE.       149 buggy at the depot. Htis visit now was unlooked for, and when he alighted at the station he found he could get no conveyance, and that he would have to make the necessary five miles on foot. This distance, howevep, could be shortened by a route across the fields with which he was famil- iar, and- which would bring him upon the rear of the farm. This route he decided to take. The improvised training course was sheltered on one side by a growth of young wood, and it was through this wood that his way ran. On emerging from the umbrage, a sight presented itself that sent the blood to his heart, and he shook as one with the palsy. This sight was Alcibiades, galloping at full speed round the course with .a young girl upon his back, while Jean, stood by applauding. Archie approached unperceived until he was near enough to hear Jean's exclamation, "Well done, well done, Jacques. Not quite so tight on the bri- die. Nay, more than that! there, that'sbetter!" "And this is still better!" exclaimed Archie, seizing Jean by his coat collar, as he sat back to- ward him, on a low rail fence, and threw him violently to the ground. "You infernal scoun- drel, do you mean to ruin my horse, letting every vagabond boy and brazen hussy in the neighbor-             \   15U,       CIIARETTE. hood ride him for their pastime. Heg your par- don, miss; I did nlot mean to be offensive." This last sentence was addressed to Alcibiades' rider, as she reined up her steed near him. As he looked upon the fair face before him, his anger cooled, his wrath vanished. Such is thy power, oh beauty!  It was Jacqueline on whom he gazed: the ruddy hue of health- had returned to her cheeks, and her face glowed with the excitement of the ride; her hair was flowing loosely, and her eyes sparkled with merriment at Jean's crestfallen ap- pearance as he rose froln the ground. "I do not think, Mr. Talbot," said the girlish rider, "that I have injured Alcibiades by exercis- ing him to-day." "Injured him!" broke in Jean; "no, indeed! If I thought I could handle him as you can, I would not fear the result of next Thursday." "You see, Mr. Talbot, my uncle, Jean's father, was a famous breeder of horses, and he used to say-this partial uncle-that I could get more out of his cattle, as he called them, than any of his sons." "That's so!" said Jean; C"there was that a vicious colt Menelaus; none of us boys could do anything with him, sir, when one day cousin Jac- queline, unknown to us, saddled and mounted   CHAREU'T'.       151 him, and from that day he was asgentle as a kitten." You must know, Mr. Talbot, I have been a little ailing of late, so came up here to spend a short time with my cousin Jeall and get some of this pure country air." 4"And she has been of the greatest service to me, sir, in the training of Alcibiades. When'I put him to his paces, she stands by and instructs me, and when she mounts, I do the same for her. Why, she knows more about a horse than half the veterinary doctors in the land. Alcibiades has improved wonderfully since she has been here, sir:. We have just commenced our after- noon exercises; would you like to witness them, sir     . " "(By all means: go on." Jacqueline prepared to dismount. Jean stopped her.  "No, no: I want Mr. Talbotto see you ride." "I had rather not, Jean; and Mr. Talbot would much prefer you." "If the young lady would oblige ine," said Archie, "I should like to judge for myself if Jean's encomiums are deserved." Jacqueline's face flushed as she .prepared to comply with his request.  Gathering up her "bridle, she seated herself firmly in the saddle (which was merely a man's saddle improvised for   152       CHARETTE. her use by throwing the right stirrup over to the left side), spoke quietly to her horse, then started off on a gentle canter, but gradually this speed increased until they seemed to fly through the air. Again and again they passed Archie, sweep- ing round the small circle, as on the wings of the wind. He could not repress a look of admiration both at the' beauty of Alcibiadesy and at the more glorious beauty of his rider, and when they stopped, and he sprang forward to assist the young lady to dismount, he said, "Many, mAny thanks, Miss Jacqueline: I find Jean's eulogiuns  fall far short of the reality.: But think you Alcibiades could keep up that pace for long?" "Indeed he could, sir," broke in Jean: "his endurance is wonderful: I believe in that re- spect he will equal any horse matched against him." "That's well. Now, Coyer, let us see if you can do as well as your cousin." Jean divested himself of his jacket and was soon in the saddle.   As Archie stood beside  Jacqueline, he could not resist the temptation to scrutinize her closely, and, as he did so, there seemed something familiar to him in her counte- nance and in the sound of her voice, but he could not recall when or where he had met her. The conclusion that Talbot came  to after a   CIIARETTE.       153 thorough canvas of the condition and perform- ance of Alcibiades, and with some deference to the opinion of Jean, was-to go on- with his bets as he had begun, and stand to win largely or lose all. Accordingly, that same evening, and many evenings and nights following, saw him at Cham- berlain's and other betting haunts, and soon he had all Moses' money up in pools, As the day appointed for the great race drew nigh, the public interest seemed to increase, and the friends of Nelson and Flambeau rang their praises. Indeed, this interest extended to the most private circles, and fair ladies' laid wagers of gloves and bon-bons with their beaux, and wore the blue colors of Nelson, and the scarlet of Flambeau. At length the all-important day arrived: it was in the last week of October, and was one of those mellow Indian-summer days which nature kindly grants to us ere ushering in the drear November. Archie'was astir betimes, and  was dressed before Lizzie had arisen; he approached to give her a parting kiss: the pent-up feelings that he had restrained so long, at length asserted their might: he trembled violently, anrid amid tears and sobs he strained his long-neglected wife to his heart. 7*   154-       CH'ARETTE.  She, all unaccustomed to such endearments, and not knowing the violent passions that were contending in her husband's breast, scarce knew what to make of this outhurst of feeling, and she almost cried with pain as the pistol that lay con- cealed in the pocket of his coat pressed against her bosom. Ah! little did she dream to what  use that pistol might be put ere night-fall!  "Good-by! good-by, Lizzie,' said Archie, disengaging himself; "I have made a -sad huss I band; but oh; darling, you klow not in what a hell I have lived these many months: but if all goes well to-day, I will be a different man. There, don't cry: good-by, I will see you on the grounds. Vance will come for you. Good-bye;" and ere she could speak he had left the room. It was a gay and joyous scene, that race- course at Fordham, on that bright October day, with its motley, surging crowd, with its bevies of fair ladies in fresh fall attire, with its gorgeous equipages and glossy steeds.  The waters of the fountains danced merrily in the bright sunshine, and the forest trees that flanked the course were glorious with the changing tints of autumn. The day was so bright and the air so balmy, that many ladies left the shelter of the Club-House piazza, to seat themselves upon the greensward under the shadow of great trees   CHARETTE.       155 whose leaves made even their bright plnumage look dull. Elegantly dressed gentlemen col- lected at the quarter-stretch and talked horse and made bets, while men of every rank and grade of society gathered at the pools, listening to tile click click of the French, concern, and anx- iously awaiting their turn to pay in their five dollars; or at the stand where the Hibernian auctioneer kept up his never-endinc cry, "Fif- teen hundred dollars in the pool, and Flambeau sold: how- much  for the second  choiceS?" "Twenty-nine hundred dollars in the pool; Flambeau and Nelson sold: how much for the field?" and so on interminably; for no sooner was one pool disposed of than another was started. The crowd could scarce control its impatience, while one or two preliminary races of little interest were run, so anxious were they for the great event of the day; and when -at length Flambeau and Lord Nelson appeared, the welkin rang with cheers: the ladies clapped their little lhands and waved their scarfs of blue or searlet. As for Alcibiades and his ignoble companions, there was " none so poor to do them reverence" until kind-hearted Tom Vance drew from  his pocket a little yellow rosette, and asked permis- sion to pin it upon Mrs. Archie's bosom. *j   156        CHAIRELTE. The voice of the multitude was hushed as the five noble animals appeared before the judges' stand preparatory to the start. Well might they excite admiration, for no nobler specimens of the species than Flambeau and Nelson ever con- I tended for the honors of the course. Flambeau's rider wore a jacket of brilliant scarlet with a cap of the -same, which contrasted well with the light blue of Lord Nelson. Coyer was dressed in pale yellow, but little differing in color from his buck-skin breeches. So unpretending was his costume that he at- tracted but little attention; indeed, he indulged in no preliminary exercises, but stood as still as his impatient steed would allow, until the track was cleared and the last bell sounded, talking with Talbot. Archie's face was very pale, but in no other way did he show that he was under any unusual excitement.  ^ "Well, Jean," he said, as he took an extra hitch in the saddle-girth, " the hour has come that will make or mar me forever. I have told you, my boy, of my desperate fortunes and what my hopes are from this race. Have you any words of cheer for me?" 'Yes; my cousin Jacqueline, the young girl you met last week, has been reading up the records of Flambeau and Nelson, and she bade   CHARETTE.       157 me say to you, that, barring accidents, she believes we will beat the best time they have yet made." "I accept the oracle, coming from so fair a priestess; and, Jean, if we win you will be a richer man to-night than ever before." "I need no such incentive to do my best, Mr. Talbot."- "I know it, Jean; I have faith in you, and I will say now, that whatever may be the result of this day's race, I believe you have done all that could be done in the training of Alcibiades, and that you will do your best as his rider." "Thanks, Mr. Talbot; have you any instrac- tions for me . " "Nothing different from what we have already talked; as we have confidence in Alcibiades' endurance, reserve his best for the last mile. There goes the bell! Good-by, Jean, and God bless -you; ;" and Archie shook his groom's hand warmly, and left the track. From the restlessness of the steeds and the impatience of their riders, it was some time before the contestants could be got well in line; biat at last the flag falls: "Off with you," cries the starter; and away they dash down the course.    158-     ,  GCHAREETrE. - "All raised at once the lash above their steeds And smote them with their reins, and cheered them on i With vehement cries. Across the plain they swept. Beneath them rose the dust, A cloud, a tempest, and their tossing manes Were lifted by the winds." For the first quarter they are all in a bunch, but grad ually Flambeau and Nelson leave the crowd, and together, side by side, pass the Club- House and disappear behind the hill. Every eye and glass is turned toward the point whele they will reappear.  Not long have the impatient crowd to wait; anon they break to view, still side by side, neck and neck; and so thev come down the quarter-stretch, when suddenly, Flam- beau, as if inspired by the sight of the starting post, launches out into a tremendous stride and passes under the wire a full length ahead of her competitor. Now   the welkin rings with shouts! now  the scarlet colors wave amain! BBut where are Alci- blades aird  Dinmont and O'Malley?   The two latter have pulled up and are preparing quietly to leave the course, while Alcibiades comes in far far behind. The crowd jeer him as he draws nigh, and pelt rider and horse with vulgar slang.  Tom   Vance gazes silently upon the rosette he had given Mrs. Archie, and blushes until his face. I               ,    *   -     OCHARETTE.       159 is of the color of Flambeau's favors, and the lady turns pale and sick at heart, until she hears the kindly voice of Dymnocke whispering in her ear: "Don't be cast down, Mrs Talbot,I think your husband's horse has not vet shown what he can do." But the multitude have no thoughts of Alci- biades; their eyes are on the champions. Soon Lord Nelson closes the, gap between him and Flambeau, and, as they agln pass the Club Htouse, his nose lalps her flank. The mare is straining every nerve: on, on she speeds, with the Lord thundering at her heels, and so again they pass from sight, and so again they approach the quarter-stretch. The mare still has the lead, but Nelson is close behind;--so close that Flambeau's rider can hear his loud breathing. On, on they fly! ply whip! strike deep your spurs! On oil! Each is at his best! behold those dilated eyes, those straining nerves, those reeking flanks, that smoking breath! On! On! Hurra! the wire is past! Flambeau again ahead! Once more the air resounds with cherers; once more the scarlet favors salute the air. But alas! alas! dear-bought victory-inauspicious speed! The noble victor gives one wild look around, and falls to the earth dead!   160        CHARETTu. The excitement is intense; the mighty throng surges to and fro. Great drops of sweat stand upon the bromrs of those who have staked heavily upon the mare; and while words of pity for the noble dead fall from the lips of Nelson's friends, their eyes and faces beam with satisfaction; for this will put money in their purses. In the confusion Alcibiades is almost entirely overlooked, but he is not far behind; and as he comes down the quiarter-stretch, he looks clean and cool, as if just from the stable. As he passes Archie, Coyer catches his eye and hears his exclamation, "Now, Jean, at 'em!" Flambeau in falling fell just in front of Lord Nelson, whose rider was forced to rein him up suddenly to avoid stumbling over her. This gave Coyer an opportunity to close part of the wide gap separating him from his now only competitor. The stable boys, seeing the mare lying motion- less, with her rider apparently crushed beneath her, rushed to their assistance, totally forgetting Alcibiades. At the signal from Archie, Jean had brought his whip down with a whack upon his horse's right flank, at the same time urging him forward with loud shoutings. Alcibiades, as if he had but waited for this signal, immediately launched out with an aston-   CHARErTTE.       161 ishing pace, and as he approached the spot where Flambeau lay, the track was- full of stable boys. A warning cry arose, "Stop, stop," from the crowd; "Rein up," from the judges' stand. The boys, seing the danger, began to fly in every di- rection. Jean comprehended the situation at a glance; to rein up would be to lose the race. The clearest spot on the course was where Flam- beau lay. At this spot he dashed his horse; then, with a ringing shout, heard far over the field, he lifted him from his feet and with a bounld cleared the carcase, and the poor scarlet-bedecked boy, who was just crawling out from beneath it. It was so gallantly done, that the crowd cheered horse and rider as they passed out of hearing; then all interest in the race suddenly seemed to cease. Lord kTelson had only to gallop quietly twice round the course and take the purse. The spectators commence discussing the events of the day, particularly Flambeau's death. -Nel- son's backers proceed to count up their gains, and Flambeau's friends are disconsolate. The grooms of the, elegant carriages that line the course, are Qrdered to draw forth the hampers and prepare luncheon; and thirsty gentlemen al- ready have the blades of their penknives to the strings on the champagne bottles. Archie, having done all in his power to'ensure   162     ,   CHARETT.          I success, leaves the result to fate, anld inakes his way to the ladies' stand. Here he finds not only Lizzie and Vallce, but all those other friends who  were his companions on his summer tour. All greet him warmly, and compliment him on the appearance of Alcibiades; but it was evident that no suspicion of his winning the race had crept into any of their minds. "I 1 aln glad, Lizzie," said Archie, " to see that you wear my colors. I believe no other lady has so honored Alcibiades."  "And for this," said Lizzie, touching her ro- sette, "I am indebted to Mr. Vance." "Thank you, Tom,"' cried Archie, "you are a good fellow." Then placing his lips close to Vance's ear, he whispered, '"If you have any money upon Nelson, hedge." Tom opened wide his eyes, "Are you in ear- nest, Archie 2" "I think it a wse' precaution., , The conversation was here cut short by a shout of surprise from the crowd. All turned their eyes towards the track. The horses were just passing the Club House in full view of the Grand Stand, and what had elicited the expression of amazement was, that Alcibiades had closed the long gap that had separated him from Lord Nel- Oson, and was actually lapping him. This, of * 4 b * . I   CHaRETTE.       163 course, would have been impossible had Nelson's rider anticipated anything of the kind; but, when Flambeau fell, he considered the race virtually won, and had greatly slackened his speed. From this dream of security he was suddenly wakened by the thunder of Alcibiades' hoofs close behind him, and he saw he still had work to do before he could carry off .the honors of the day. He heard, too, the shouts of the assembled con- course, and, as for a moment, he glanced toward the Club. House, he saw there was sudden com- Imotion among those who thronged its wide piazzas or dotted the-greensward in front of it. All this he saw at a glance; then, rising in his stirrups, he spoke sharply to his horse, and with vigor laid on the lash. The horse heard the voice and felt the smart, and at once shot ahead, striking out into his old gait-a gait that had so tried the mettle of Flam- beau. And the crowd jeered, "This new horse, thought to steal a inarch upon the old Lord foolish thought!" "There seems to be something in that horse of Talbot's, but Nelson will show him a clean pair of heels before reaching the quarter-stretch." As, thus they spoke, the hill hid both horses from sight, Nelson disappearing full two lengths ahead; when again they break to view, Alcibiades   164       CHARETTE. has regained this lost ground, and as they enter upon the last quarter of the third mile, they are neck and neck, and so they come down the quar- ter-stretch, and so pass under the wire. -Nelson's rider is plying whip and spur, but Alcibiades keeps close beside him, and it is impossible to say which ism-head. If we dalled the excitement attending the con- test between Flambeau and Nelson "intense," what word will describe the feelings that now possess that vast crowd?  Alcibiades had too few friends for them  to make any noisy demonstrations, and those who had staked heavily upon Nelson, and who, when Flambeau fell, thought their wagers won, looked on amazed, and stood silent and aghast. Under- neath calm exteriors some hearts were beating wildly, while upon many brows stood great beads of sweat. Still on sped horse and rider, bearing the for- tunes of many on their backs. On! on! down the first quarter-round the north curve--past the Club House, neither having any seeming ad- vantage. Nelson's rider shouts to his steed, plies his scourge, and strikes deep his spurs. Jean re-echoes his shouts with encouraging words to Alcibiades, plies hard his whip, but withholds the spurs; and so, neck and neckl saddle-bow to   CHARE'mT.        165 saddle-bow, they disappear for the fourth and last time behind the hill. A mighty sigh escapes from the breast of the excited crowd; then follow a few seconds of awful suspense--a few seconds only-and again every neck is stretched forward, every eye and glass turned to the southern ex- tremity of the course. Not a word is spoken. The multitude scarce seems to breathe! Why de- lay the steeds? Will they never come in sight? It is but a few lnoments that they are hid, but to those excited watchers it seems an age. Aha! they come! A cloud of dust for a little renders their figures indistinct; but this soon clears away, showing the contestants side by side. Will this last forever . Thus pass they on to the last quarter. Here Jean for the first time uses the spurs, and, as he strikes them deep into those now steam- ing sides, the welkin re-echoes his ringing shout. Well-well did Alcibiades respond.   With a migohtv leap he passes his competitor, and dashes towards the goal. On, on they come down the quarter-stretch, Alcibiades a good length ahead. Spur, spur, Lord Nelson! think upon the name you bear.  Win or die!  "Victory or West- minster Abbey!"That's right, my Lord's jockey, strike your spurs till the red blood flows! Ply your whip till great welts tell the force of your   166       CHARIET'.     . blows'! Shout till your voice fails you! On, on, "Victory or Westminster Abbey!" The goal is reached-the wire passed--Alci- biades three seconds ahead! List to the shouting! Q Behold the waving scarfs! The crowd cannot repress its admiration; and, as the noise of the tumult reaches the ears of Arcllie, he swoons in Dymocke's arms. For the whole day his frame had been but a bundle of X nerves, and these strung to their highest pitch; and when he saw that his horse had won, all the conse- quences of that success rushed upon his mind, and his senses left him. Had the result beet different-had he left that stand a defeated and ruined man,-he would have left it with a smile ,upon his lip, although he left it for a suicide's grave. When his consciousness returned, he found the course the scene of the wildest uproar ; the crowd had passed the barriers separating them from the traci, arid had surrounded the judge's stand, and were assailing him with loud clamor. "This race was sold! we are cheated-swindled! Fraud! ,Fraud!" they cry. Soon, however, the judge made his voice heard above the din. "This race may have been sold, gentlemen," he said. "There may have been jockeying; but if it is so, it is the strangest sold   OHARETTE.        167 race on record. There is Flambeau dead, trying to win it! and here is the time this new horse has made-the best time ever made on this or any other American course;" and he ran up the figures, "7 m. 19 sec." When the crowd saw these figures, they slunk back quieted; and Archie Talbot stood a free man, and Alcibiades the head of the American Turf.      .   CHAPTER VII. ^ ^'jECIL CAREW was a rising young law- j i  yer, industrious and hard-working; it was rare that he gave himself such recrea- tion as he had taken the past summer, and only the attractions of Miss Merrifield could have in- duced him to do so. On'his return to the city, he took hold of business with redoubled zest, not only because his affairs required it, but in a vain hope that occupation would drive Miss Merri- field's image from his mind. Some eight or ten days after the events record- \  ed -in the last chapter, he was seated in his private office when Archie Talbot entered, ac- companied by a dark, low-browed man, whom he introduced as Mr. St. Andre. He was a short, heavy man, with a repulsive countenance, on which wild dissipation and unmastered passions had left their impress. Hle returned Carew's bow with a surly nod, and throwing himself into '\ a chair left Talbot to explain the object of their visit.   CHARETTE.       169 As to the latter, it was pleasant to mark his changed appearance.  No longer gloomy or morose, he greeted Carew with cheerful warmth. Once again he was basking in the sunlight of prosperity. "Well, Carew," he said as lie seated himself, "how goes it with  my inexorable creditors; have you settled with theln all?" "I believe the last was paid to-day," replied Carew. "Moses took his money yesterday, and here are your notes duly cancelled; also a satis- faction piece for the mortgage he held on Alci- blades. Here also is a schedule of the various amounts paid for you; some of them are so out- rageous--some of the charges so villanously hsurious, that I was: strongly inlitled to contest them. But this foolishtfellow insists upon pay- ing cent per cent, Mr. 'St.- Andre'." "Bigger fool he!"grunted St. Andre. "Do unto others as you think they will do unto you, is nmy motto; and a cursed good one I have found it." "Ah! St. Andre," replied Archie, smiling, "you have ever been the darling of fortune, and never knew what it was to be in debt; to be obliged to put off, with all sorts of lying excuses, men whom you honestly owe, and who you know need the money; to tremble at every ring at the 8   170       CHARETTE. door, fearing a dun; to see old friends shun you lest you should seek a loan; and then, suddenly, to have all this changed-to be able to say to these fellows, ' There is dollar for dollar and more besides;' to be able to walk with head erect, and to look every man in the face. Ahl! one moment of feelings such as these, is better than the wealth of the Roothschilds!  "And how does your worthy father-in-law carry sail now?"*asked Carew. "Like the base hound he is," replied Archie. "When first he heard of my success at Fordham, and the rumor--magnified three-fold-reached his ears of the amount I had won, he came to, me beaming with smiles, conlgratulated ine with the greatest empressement, invited me to dinner, and had down the family plate; but when I told him that all ol about all of this money would go to pay my debts, and that I still was a poor man and expected to look to the turf for support, he froze at once. I b)elieve, too, he has been poison- ing mny wife's minhd against me. I suppose if I should make another 'ten strike' he would be all affability again. By the way, Carew, how much money shall I have after paying all these debts?"  . "Not quite ten thousand." "But then  there is Alcibiades; and he   .            ,- '    CHETTE.        171 is quite a valuable piece of horse-flesh just 1now.' "True, and that reminds me; Vance was here yesterday, and supposing there was no longer reason for keeping the title in his name, I had him sign a release, transferring the ownership back to you." "That is well," replied Archie, " and in good time, for I have brought Mr. St. Andre here on some turf business. As you know, Mr. St. Andre was the owner of Flambeau; her unfor- tunate death--though- fortunate for me--knocks up some of his arrangements for the winter cam- paign. Still, he has a fine stable independenlt of Flambeau. Now we propose to join forces: I to put in Alcibiades, and he the horses whose names you will find oil this memorandumn, and to divide the profits or losses in the manner there stated; and we wish you to draw up a little agrleement to that effect for both of us to sign." Here an office boy entered with a visitor's card. Carew glanced at it and read, "Rev. Pierre Guardet." "Give the gentleman a chair, John, alld hand him  the morning paper. Tell him I will be at leisure in a few moments." "Rev. Pierre Guardet," read St. Andre, pick- ing up the card which Carew had thrown upon   172    iHARETTE. the table. ' Rev. Pierre Gutarde,'--that name sounds strangely familiar; thougl for 'the life of me, I cannot recall where I have heard it." "He is a stranger to me," said Carew. "And now, have you any further business, gentlemen a If not, I must ask you to leave those memoranda with me. Call in any time to-morrow and you will find the agreement ready for your signatures. "We will do so," returned Archie. "Come, St. Andre, we must not take up more of Carew's time. 'Time is money' with him you know. Good-morning, Carew."  "Good-morning, gentlemen." In the alnte-roqlp they encountered the French priest, Father Guardet. - His mild eyes met the evil glance of St. Andre, but no token of recog- nition followed. They had never before met, and knew not each other, and yet this man St. Andre, was at the moment uppermost in the mind of the good priest. As our two acquaintances left, the priest was shown into Carew's private office. The lawyer bowed politely, and motioning to a seat waited for his visitor to announce the object of his visit. "It is probably rare," said Father Guardet, "for one of my profession to seek counsel from one of yours; but I come to you, Mr. Carew, in behalf of one who has suffered a great wrong ,         ,    CHARETTE.       173 which the law alone can right. It is a case of a will which we purpose contesting; and I wish to ascertain if you are willing to undertake it.", "Before I can reply, I should have to know the points in the case." "I will furnish you with temn, though it may be necessary for me to be somewhat prolix." "I can give you half an hour," said Carew, looking at his watch. "Do not be afraid of going into particulars; clients often omit cir- umstances which to them seem trivial, but which afterwards prove important." "Well, then, I must go back a generation; The St. Andres were an ancient familv of La Vendee: for many generations preceding the first French revolution, they had been extensive land- owners and prosperous farmers in the Bocage. Like most of the inhabitants of that devoted province, they were opposed to the republic. Ardent royalists and devout Catholics, they gave of their blood, and of their substance, to the cause in which they gloried; and when at last, in spite of the heroic endeavors of this simple people, the arms of the republic had conquered, and that fair land had been converted into a howling wilderness, and the Convention issued its decree, 'La Vendee no longer exists,' the few scattered remnants of the name could echo back   174:       aHARsB Er 'The family of St. Andre is no more.' In more peaceful times, however; a few of the name wandered back towards their ancient patrimony; but these but feebly represented the olden glory so that in 18  all that remained of the name were two -young men, brothers-Philip  anld Louis. Hopeless of their future in the land of their birth, they resolved to emigrate. Convelt- ing their small possessions into cash, thev bade farewell to the tombs of their ancestors, and sailed for America.      , "Philip settled in Canada; he was ten years the elder, of a hardy, rugged nature, and there was something in that bleak climate and those lonely, interminable forests that strongly attract- ed him. "Louis, on the contrary, was of a mild and easy disposition, and he could see nothing alluring'in that northern land. The balmy airs and fragrant savannahs of the Sollth  wooed him, and he located in Louisiana. God, to both, sent pros- perity.  Philip engaged  extensively in Ilmn- bering, and in time became the possessor of vast tracts of- those pine  latnds he so muchl admnired. "Louis engaged in agricultule, and grew to be an extensive planter, and was much loved and respected ill his- section. Philip never married;   oHARrETTE.       -175 but Louis took to wife a native of the South, who bore him several children. "I was awyoung priest, but just in orders when I first met Philip St. Andre. It was at the little village of La DarbelliBre, which had grown up around some mills he had erected.- I was on missionary duty, and La Darbelliere was within my jurisdiction. He then was a gloomy, austere man, living much alone in a large and somewhat pretentious mansion which he had erected, and which the neighbors dignified with the title of the 'Manor House,'  As far as I know, there was only one human being in the wide world in whom he took any interest, and this was a young girl, the daughter- of one of his tenants and employes. He  was her godfather, and at the font he named her Jacquelille, i memory of the youthful hero of La Velidee--the heroic and chivalrous I ienri de La Rochejaecquelile. Some- how this young girl hiad entwined herself about his heart; he treated her as his daughter; had her hutch at the Manor House; sent her to the best schools i Montreal; and, as she grew to, womanhood, took delight in furnishing her witlh the mnost costly'attile.  As I said, St. Andrie was wifeless and childless, so that Coyer, the girl's father, and indeed the neighbors generally, had but one idea about all this, which was, that he    4 v      CHAEET'm'I. intended to make Jacqueline his heir. Indeed, he was often heard to speak of it, and there is little doubt but that such was his intention ; but like many other men, he put off making his will too long. "Hee was far up on the Ottawa superintending some lumbering operations, when he met with a sudden and  terrible death.  His body was brought home and buried; his effects were searched for a will, but none was ever found; the law administered upon the estate; heirs were advertised for, and Louis St. Andre appeared. "There could be but little doubt that he was the legal and only heir, and in due time he was put in possession. But all this took time, and this time Louis spent at the Manor IIouse. He must have been about fifty years of age, although he looked younger-a  most agreeable and courtly gentleman. "He spoke of hmself as a widower with four sons.  He  was thrown much with Jacqueline: indeed he had little to do but await the slow pro- cess of the law, and she was the only person in the neighborhood in whom he could find pleasant companionship. The consequences you can fore- see: he became  deeply enamored of the young Canadian girl, and in a short time offered himself to her in' marriage.   CHARETTE.       1" ' The disappoilttment of Coyer and his daughter at the failure of Philip to mnake a will in Jacque- line's favor was naturally great, and this doubt- less induced the former to look favorably upon this offer. Besides, I think there is little doubt that, despite the difference of ages, Louis had won the gir'os affections; as he was superior in every respect to any man she had ever met. "At any rate she accepted hiln with her father's consent, and they were married.   I was the priest who performed the lloly rite. Never shall I forget how she looked-this young bride. I think she was the most beautiful woman I ever beheld. "They took up their abode at the Manor House, and both seemed supremely happy.    After a little, however, a change came over Louis. He appeared thoughtful and somewhat irritable; it was evident something preyed uponiis mind. At length he confided all to me. He had deceiv- ed Jacqueline; his first wife was yet alive! Tru e, she was dead to him; for many years she had been the inmate of a mnad-house. At that time she was failing rapidly, and in a little while God would release him from his bonds. "As soon as he had confessed this to me, I told him that to live longer with Jacqueline was a sin, and insisted that he should at once leave her, and 8'   178       CHARETTE. as soon as his wife was dead, he could return and I would repronounce the words that would make them lawfully man and wife. "With many sobs and groans he promised com- pliance. -- My duties called me away to a distant part of my mission field. When I returned I found St. Andre gone, and with him Jacqueline. He left for me a note, which fortunately I have preserved. Here it is: please read it." Carew took the note, and read': "DEAR FATHER GUARDET,--I have tried to tell Jacqueline-I have tried to leave her-bult my heart failed me. Two days since, I received a letter from Doctor Ward; he says poor Marie is sinking fast, and a few weeks at longest will elnd her misery. We leave here to-da3y, and shall make our way slowly towards Halifax; there I shall await tidings from Marie, and as soon; as God has released her from her pains, I will tell Jacqueline all, and Holy Church shall repro- nounce us man and wife. Then we shall sail for France. Adieu. "Ever yours, "LOUIS ST. ANDRE." Father Guardet resumed his narrative. "Years rolled on, and I heard little of the St. Andres.   CHAREmTE.       179 The village of La Darbclliere, which had de- pended almost entirely upou the alumbering opera- tions of Philip for support, went to decay; the large saw-mills he had erected there were allowed to stand idle, and bats and owls became the sole tenants of the Manor House. "Louis placed his large estate in the hands of an agent, who would occasionally be instructed to sell a piece of timber land, when the owner stood in need of ready money,; but the bulk of the estate still remained intact, and year by year increased in value. "During this period I was relieved from my missionary labors and became a prebendary of Notre Dame at Montreal. One wild and stormy night in the winter of 18-- a visitor was alnolunced, and a youllg girl. was ushered into my humble room. She was genteelly attired, but in a garb every way unsuited to our cold-climate. She seemed greatly fatigued and distressed. I placed her near a blazing wood fire and gave her a. glass of wine. Soon she was sufficiently refreshed to tell me her story. "' I came to you, Father,' she said, ' because I am an entire stranger here. I am but just arrived in your city, and on inquiring for a priest of my church, as the most proper person to whom I should apply for instruction, was directed to you.   I do not-know as there is anything you can do for me, except to show me where I can obtain lodging suitable for, an unprotected girl like myself, while I make inquiries regarding some of my mother's relatives who reside in these parts, but in what place, I am ignorant." ".Let me know nmore of your story, daughter, I replied, ' and if it is fittingh I caln find you shelter and food within one of our convents.' Thanks, Father, but I am   not entirely empty-handed, and'I shall not need to be beholden to any one for bounty.  The people whom  I seek bear my mother's maiden name of Coyer. -My name is Jacqueline St. Andre.' "You can imagine my surprise!   I got up, pushed back her veil, and gazed eagerly into her face.  All her mother's features were there: the same lustrous black eyes, the same perfect mouthl and a  certain ingenuous expression of counte- nance which spoke a soul of purity and truth. "' You are indeed the daughter of Jacqueline Coyer; every lineament of your countenance speaks of her!  "' Did you know my mother ' she inquired. ' Intimately,' I  replied. Even from her girlhood. I  as her first confessor, and it was I   who married her to your father, Louis St. Andre.' ,I    CHARETTE.     v  181 "' The saints be praised! They have directed my steps aright!'  And then she told her story. "From what I heard that night, and froln what I have gathered since, I judge this to be about the history of the family after Jacqueline 'became the bride of St. Andre: "After leaving La Darbelliere, Louis, with his new-made wife, proceeded to Montreal, thence to Halifax. "At this place he must have received authen- tic intelligence of the death of his first wife. From Halifax they took passage to England, and thence to France. "Two years and more must have elapsed after. this, before they reached their Southern home. They brought with them the young child Jacque- line, born to them in France.  ' "At Charette-ithe name of Mr. St. Andre's estate--Mrs. St. Andre found her step-children, four stalwart young men. By all, save one, she was received most kindly: this exception was the eldest son, Henri. "He differed in every particular from'his broth- ers. While ,they were manly and noble youths, he was rough, selfish, and brutal. -He com- menced to wage war against his young step- mother from the moment she crossed the thresh-   old of Charette, and this war never ceased dur-  ing her life. "Still, on the whoie, I judge Mrs. St. Alld're"' wedded life was a pleasant one; she was beloved by her husband, treated with the utmost defer- i ence and respect by the younger boys, alld had all a motler's joys in watching the gradually ex- panding bud, Heaven had given into her bosom. "The beauty of her youth was, if possible, eclipsed b)y the maturer beauties of womanhdood. The passion for dress that old St. And!re had in- spired by his foolish indulgence tohller in her youth, never left her, and she was celebrated in  her section, for her rich and costly wardrobe. "It was their custom   to spend the winter months at the St. Charles Hotel in. New Orleans, and here she shone' resplendent, and was the charm and adlmiration of the eleganlt society that gathered there anterior to the war. To all this  the war that broke out in '61 betweein the two sections of your country, was a sad blow. "Louis St. Andrde remained at Charette, liut one by one he saw his sons depart to join the armies of the Soith;, one by one they fell upon ! bloody fields. One sleeps forever on the banks of the Tennessee, one rests at Gettysburghl, and one wandered holne only to die of his wounds. Henri only remained.  He was a coward as well   CIARETTEo        183 as a brute; he shirked, first by sending a substi- tute, and then on some plea of'ill health. ' These sorrows told upon St. Andre, who was now  well advalnced in years, and his milnd showed many symptoms of decay. But his mis- fortunes were not over: gradually the red wave of war, which at first had seemred far off, ap- proached, till, finally, his servants were swept away, his home pillaged, and his crops either seized or destroyed. His wife was ill of a fever, and the excitement attendant on such sceles was fatal to her; gradually she sank away and died. "Louis, with his son Henri and the young Jacqueline, with a few old and almost worthless servants, continlued to reside at Charette, now but a wreck of its former beauty. "Day by day the old man grew more feeble both in mind and body. By and by the war closed, and Henri, finding himself the object of scorn and contempt to all his neighbors, con- cluded to come North, anld under the plea of' finding better medical advice, induced, or rather compelled, the old man  to accompany him. They took up their abode at the New   York Hotel, and' Henri began a life of the wildest dissipation. "On the 20th August, 18-, Louis St. Andre died. A few days after, Henri offered his will   !184:      CHRETTEr. at the Snrrogate's office for probate. It was comprised inl a few lines, and was dated but a few days before his death. I have a copy." Carew took the paper the Father offered him, and read: "In the name of God. Amen. I, Louis St. Andre, being at this present a citizen of the city and county of New, York, in the State of New York, being sound in mind, though infirm of body, do hereby, first revoking all other wills by me made, declare this to be my last will and testament -to wit: First, tlat my lawful debts and funeral expenses shall be duly paid, and the remainder of Iny estate--all the goods and chattels of which I am possessed, of what description soever, both real and personal-I do hereby will, devise, and be- queath to my well-beloved son, Henri Cliaiette, he being the only surviving legitimate fruit of mny body. And I appoint and nominate him-the said Henri Charette-to be the sole executor of this, lny last will and testament. "In witniess whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, this, the fifteenth day of August, i1s--. "Louis ST. ANDRE." "Witness, "I. Seabright. "Michael Donohue.'  -   OHARETTE.       185 "As far as I can ascertain," resumed the priest, "everything was done in a legal manner. No one appeared to contest the will: it" was duly probated, and Henri confilned as executor. In- deed, who was there to dispute it? The only other heir was the younog girl Jacqneline, and she was far away, either on the plantation or at boarding-school, and knew nothing of what was going on. "Indeed, it was some time after the event that she was informed of her father's death. "In December she received a letter from I-ienri, informing her that he was about to return to Charette, and directing her to meet him there. She was then at boarding-school, somewhere- in Alabama. She obeyed his directions, and pro- ceeded to Charette. "It was now a desolate spot.  Everything seemed neglected. A few old servants still lived on the place ; but the main part of the house was closed. She did what a child could to get it in order; the rooms were opened and aired, and the furniture cleaned. It was about Christmas-tide that the new master arrived. "The few old servants, with their whitened locks and bended forms, gathered in the hall to meet him. As they came forward to welcome' him, he cracked his whip at them, cursed them   for a set of worthless hounds, and so, rudely passed them by---he was drunk. "In the drawing-roonm, despoiled during the war of every object of art that had once rendered it attractive, he found his young sister. 1te was the onlly living soul left for her to cling to. For- getting--as she had forgiven--all his past con- duct towards her mother and herself, she ap- proached him with outstretched arms. He re- pulsed her roughly, and with such violence, that had she not caught at a chair, she would have fallen. Then  he applied to her opprobrious names, calling her beggar, pauper, interloper, and at last one other name that sent the hot blood to her cheeks, as it cast a slur upon her birth ald upon her mother's fair name.- "In tearsshe sought her room. In the morln- ing thngs were no better; if possible the wretch  was worse sober, than drunk; his eyes fairly shot  hatred; there was no end to his malignity.  In a few days she knew all--that she was left penni- less, entirely dependent upon his bounty. More than this, her mother's marriage he declared a sham. He showed her the marriage certificate I had given ;  he showed her a certifieate of his own mother's death, and with fiendish cruelty he pointed out to her the date: the former was some six weeks anterior to the latter. Then he pro- *   *      f   CHARETTE.        1L'f' duced a copy of their father's will, in which she was declared illegitimate. "The poor girl knew not what to do. To re- main dependent upon such a wretch was impos- sible; yet she knew- not to whom to apply for advice or assistance. The former wealthy plant- ers of the neighborhood were now poor and needy; the most of them had left the vicinity, having rented their plantations to strangers. "She addressed a note to the caure of the par- ish. He came to her. He saw and expostulated with Henri.. The wretch, forgetting  all his father's precepts, had all rights the servants turn the holy mall out of the house. Then he vented his rage upon Jacqueline for exposing his villany, aud he bade her too to quit the house. "' I shall go to-morrow,' she replied, and im- mediately began making preparations to depart. His heart must have softened somewhat at this, as he bade her take everythilg that had be- longed to her mother; and he himself saw that the 'servants Ipacked all those dresses and jewels in which' that good lady had taken such pride. He even gave her a purse not indifferently filled. No sleep came to Jacqueline that night. She lay broad awake, trying to devise where to go and what to do. "At last she decided to go in quest of her .   188       CHAR"TTE. mother's relatives: perhaps they would receive her. Nonle of theln had she ever seen; little did she know of them. She relnembered that in her mother's lifetime an occasional letter-had passed between thernm; and she rememlbered the sad tears that dear mnother had shed when one with a black seal came, telling of her grand-father, old Jean Coyer's death. "She knew she had uncles living, and had some vague idea of the place; but what reception she should meet with, she could form no judgment. At any rate, it could not be worse than her pres- ent life; so she started alone, this young girl, in the depth of winter, to make that long jour- ney. Day and night, night and day she travelled, until, worn and tired, she found her way, by a  kind Providence directed, to my humble abode.  "I see, sir, you are interested in this sad story. You can imagine my feelings, as I had it fromn the lips of that young girl. I knew how pure and innocent her mother was, and my heart ached that such sorrow had come upon her only child. And now I come to you, as a lawyer, to colnsult-  you as to the possibility of having this great wronlg righted." . "Let us drop that for a -moment," said Carew. "Tell me, first, what reception the girl met from :' her mother's relatives."   w g. CIIARETTE. '      189 - A most warln and hearty one. They are all poor people, moving 'in the humblest walks of life; but to her they opened wide their hearts, and took her in; and now they would lay down their -lives to serve her. "For some time after her arrival in Montreal, the weather was too severe to allow us to go in search of them; in the meanwhile I placed Jac-. queline in one of our nunneries.        3 "( When the spring was sufficiently advanced to make it safe, we started together for the village of La Darbelliere. e We found it, as I said before, almost de- serted ; the enterprise of old Philip St. Anldr3 had given it life; that wanting, there was noth- ing to sustain it. We found the little cottage where her tiother was born. It was tenantless, and had nearly gone to decay. We sought the old mansion of Philip St. Anldre : this, too, was closed. We obtained the key at a neighboring cottage, and entered. Time's unsparing hand had done its work: the walls were damp and mil- dewed; the wind swept through the broken win- dows; most of the ceiling had fallen and lay upon the floor beneath; the beams and joints were rotting, and -even the strong foundation seemed crumbling to decay. The sight struck a chill to my heart; the young girl who stood by my   190       CIIBAETTE. side was the olnly livillng ting left to remilld me of those who once had filled the halnlet with the hum of busy illdustry, and these now deserted halls with life and joy. We found no onle bearing the name of Coyer at La Darbelliere, but we obtained a clue which, followed up, led us to Antoine Coyer, a brother of Mrs. St. Aindre, and conlsequently uncle of Jacqueline.  He was living upol an islalld in the St. Lawrence--one of the famous "Thousand." Here he cultivated a small farm while his sons- gave n ucth time to fishing, and to rowing about the summer visitors at Clayton and Alexandria Bay. Hunting and   trapping in the winter helped to support the family. Coyer had another resource whieh was not so creditable. Being favorably situated, he allowed his house to be made the depository of snmugglers, and for which he was well paid. In  this wild spot, with these rough men, Miss St. Andrde has passed three summers: the, winters she has spent at school in Montreal. Deprived of the  companionship of her own sex, she joined her cousin in all their manly sports and occupations, and she became skilled at rowing, hunting, and  fishing, and even in riding;  for Antoine to his other occupation added that of raising horses.  All this has   CHARET.         191 developed her physique, so that now she is jlust budding into womanhood, perfect inl body, full of health and strength, with a minld not ,ill-informed, and with one of the sweetest ald ,host loving of dispositions. And yet this dark staill is upon her birth, blighting all her pros- pects for a happy settlement in life. "You spoke of a second possible marriage," said Carew. '"Have you made any inquiries in regard to it "  - "Yes, but I regret to say in vain. I sent a young student to examine all the parish registers at Moltreal anld at Halifax, and at many of the intermediate  places, but without  success. I wrote to a friend in France, and he even- person- ally examined the church registers at Caen and other places, which St. Andrle was known to have visited, but with like result. It is just possible there may have been a civil marriage there, but with St. Andre's and Jacqueline's religious prin- ciples, it is not probable.- I have a firm convic- tion that -there was a second marriage, but I know not how to prove it. "Let us see how the case now stands," said the lawyer; "I think there is little doubt but that old St. Andre was unsound in his minid when lie, signed this will, or at any rate that his son Henri used undue influence in inducing himn to    192        CHARETTE. do so. We call probably prove something of this, by some of the employes of the hotel; and the will is so manifestly unjust, that with any fair degree of doubt, the court would break it." "But, having done so,- what next?   The State steps in, to divide the estate between the lawful heirs. Is this young girl Jacqueline one? In justice, yes: but in law there is a doubt. True, her mother was married by you to the testa- tor ; but that marriage was clearly illegal. The fact that for years they lived together, and that he everywhere introduced her as his wife, would go far with a jury. But against this is the fact that-St. An'dre has been three years and more in possession, and he will use all the power his money gives him, and avail himnself of all the de- lays the law to retain that possession. Might it not be well to propose a compromise?" "Never! never!" said Father Guardet. "It is not the mnoney we want, but a public acknowl- edgment by a legal tribunal that Jacqueline was born in lawful wedlock. This can only be ob- tained by the strong arm of the law wrenching fromn this degenerate scion of a noble race one half of his possessions, and for this we will try. We have a little money raised from the sale of Mrs. Louis St. Andre's wardrobe. Every cent shall ?   CHARETTE.       193 go- in this cause and! we believe that God will prosper us! We should like to entrust the case to you, but if you decline it, we must seek other counsel." "It is not the nature of a lawyer," said Carew, smiling, "to decline a fcc particularly in so interesting a case as this: my advice, you must admit, was disinterested. I have an engagement at court, and must now leave you: please leave your papers, and call in a couple of days for an answer."   ' The- good father, with a somewhat lighter heart than he had entered, took his departure.   CHAPTER V;III. GOOD-MORNING, Archie," exclaimed Hugh Dymocke, as lie encountered Ar- chie Talbot on the sunny side of Broad- wray one crisp rnorning inl December, "I scarce expected to meet you here, my collquering turfite. I supposed you were gathering shekels in more sunny climes." "I had hoped before this to have hard a shy at thlose cotton lords, but St. Andre has been de- tained by some conllfounded law  business or other," returned Talbot; "and, apropos to the same, I am now on my way to the Surrogate's office, where I promised to meet St. Andre, and where some action in the case is to be taken this morning. Come withl me, and afterwards we will have luncheon together. "Willingly; anything to beguile the time," re- turned Hugh; "but tell me, as we pass alog,; what is this suit of St. Andre'sa I have heard solme rumors that a claimant has appeared for part of his estates. Do you know the facts. "   COHA!"ETrE.       195 "Bat indifferently,i" replied Archie. "St. An- dre says it is an idle claim, that he will be able to dispose of to-day, and that to-morrow we can start oni our Southern campaign. As near as I can learn, St. Andre's father must have been even wilder than his son ; for it would seem that'even late in life he had his little adventures, and this claimant-boy or girl,; I forget which-is the result of one of them, and on this the claim on the estate is based." "I should have supposed," said Dymnocke, " that St. Andre, out of respect for his father's memory, would have settled this before it got-into the courts. And that reminds me, Archie, it has- seemed strange to me that you should have linked your fortunes with that mag: he always appeared to me to be a scurvy fellow; look sharp, my boy, or he will cheat you." "To tell the ti:uth, Iugh, I do not fancy hiln myself; but he understands the business we are on, and stands well. with the turf." "Who are his lawyers?" "Swagg and Leach; sharp fellows, it is said." "Yes, sharp, but unprincipled. They will not give character to the defence. But see, there is a white hand signalling one of us from yonder car- riage. If I mistake not, I caught a glimpse of Mrs. Talbot's fair locks as they passed us."   196       CHArRETE. The carriage-a close hackney--drew up to the curb, a short distance in advance of the gen- tlemen, and Mrs. Archie's pretty face was thrust out of the window. "Well met, gentlemen!" was her greeting, as our two pedestrians drew near; "open the door, Archie, and come in with Mr. Dymnocke; I have an old friend with me; " and leaning back in the seat, she erabled the gentlemen to see and recog- nize Miss Merrifield. The salutations ended, and the gentlemen being seated, Mrs. Archie continued : "You will be sur- prised when I tell you that we are going to court." "To court r " "Yes to court; Kate came round for me short- ly after you left home, Archie, and asked me to accompany her to the Surrogate's court. It seems Mr. Carew has for client a young lady, who is a stranger here and entirely without lady friends. -Ie appears to take great interest in the case; and as she is to be in .court, as -it were almost alone, he asked Kate to do him the favor to be pre- sent also. that this young person might not seem entirely without support from her own sex." "Why," said Archie to Dymocke, c" this minst be the same affair we were talking of just now. I heard St Andre say Carew was engaged against hin."   CHUARE'r.       197 "Yes," said Miss Merrifield, "Mr. Carew told me it was St. Andre versus St. Andre." "I am afraid, Archie," said Hugh, " your friend will find. there is more in this than he seems to think, if Carew is enlisted against him. Carew is no visionary, and Messrs. Swagg and Leach will find him no feeble antagonist.'- "He is yet young,"' returned Archie, '-and many young lawyers fancy themselves. red cross knights, destined to chalnpion a11 distressed dam- sels; but in their enthusiasm they often mistake Duessa for TTna.", "However that mnay be," said Dymocke, " if 1 were St. Andre I would rather have Carew for me than against me. But here we- are even' at the portal where justice is supposed to dwell; and look where St. Andre comes, and with him our good friend Tom Vance." The latter recognized -the ladies, joined them, and introduced St. Andre. Thus it chanced that the defendant in this suit entered the court-roont surrounded by so many of our old acquaintances. Jacqueline was already there, the only woian in the room. Beside her sat Father Guardet in close[Conversation with Carew. She was closely veiled. As St. Andre entered she looked up, and saw him accompanied by the Talbots, Miss Mer- rifielJ, Vance and Dymocke. Her heart sank;   198      , CHARETTE. she felt friendless and alone with all the world ar- rayed against her'; and indeed it appeared so.. The court-roorr was nearly empty. Apart she sat,- her only friend beside her, and lie a poor priest-- when her brother entered. Thais brother was her bitter foe; he was wealthy; possessor of the vast revenues of the St. Andre estates; he was strong and she felt herself so weak; she could hear his coarse laugh, and she saw him surrounded by, and in apparent intimate relations with, those her memory had dwelt upon so fondly, and whom she so highly esteemed. Is it strange that she bowed her head upon her hands,and that her heart failed her? Dymocke turned to look at the plaintiff; she was too closely veiled for recognition. The priest in conversation with Carew raised his head, and Dymocke saw his face. Only once before had he' seen it, and then by the uncertain, light of the moon; but every circumstance of that night of horror was too deeply engraven upon his memory for him to be mistaken. - Yes, he knew at once this to be the priest in lwhose arms he had seen his last of Jacqueline. What sad thoughts that face suggested! How vividly it recalled the past! Sweet Jacqueline! so fair and so early dead.' At the sight of- the priest the old longing came back upon him to know more of his lost   CHARETTE.       199 darling; what was her past history; where had tley laid her? Here was one who could tell him all. He determinled that when the couirt rose, he would seek the priest and endeavor to have these questionls answered. Jacqueline's head was still bowed in her hands; she saw not the face of her lover; she heard but itle gay laughter and the idle chatting of the group, where she knew he was seated, and which surrounded her great enemy. Oh how she had longed for this day, the day that was to bring her and her brother face to face in open court, and to have their rival claims decided by the stern rule of justice and of right! Now she faill would have shrunk back and given up all; but it is too late, the judge has takzenl his seat, and she hears- the clerk calling "St. Andre versus St. Andre." Swagg and Leach also were there, and had summoned St. Andre to their side. A marked contrast was presented by plaintiff and defen- dant. On the one side was a younl girl, modest- ly and closely veiled, as if shrinking from the observation she knew she must attract; by her side the good priest Father Guairdet, his benevo- lent countenance illumined by a holy enthusiasm, as his eyes rested upon the girlish form at his side; before them, as if to shield this helpless   '200        CHARETTE. pair from the blows of their enemies, rose the manly formtof Cecil Carew. As he gathered his papers in his hands and stood for a moment, his magnificent head thrown slightly back, his eyes resting with scorn upon his opponents, he looked indeed like a red cross knight ready to wage woful fight against dragon, giant, or churl in behalf of his distressed client. b On the other hand was St. Andre, with " fore- head villanously low," his face distorted by evil passions, his bloodshot eyes darting furtive looks of hatred towards the shrinking figure at Carew's side; and with him those harpies of the law, Swagg and Leach, fit champions of such a cause. Swagg was a large, florid, blustering fellow, dressed in a coarse sack coat with most capacious pockets, as if to carry off any plunder he might lay his hands on; while Leach was long of limb a and lean in flesh, with a dirty chalky complexion. He Awore a rusty close-fitting suit of dark green. He had a trick of lifting up his head and stretching his long neck, at the same time protruding his thick lips, as if seeking for some likely subject on which to fasten. "Your friend St. Andre," whispered Mrs. Talbot to her husband, " seemns to have selected strange counsellors; they have a villanons look." "Not more so than their client, it strikes me,"   CHARlTlfi.       201 said Miss. Merrifield. "But hlsh! the silver- tongued Carew begins." "May it please the court," he said, "we beg to ask the clerk to read this attested copy of the last will and testalnent of Louis St. Andre, of Charette, Louisiana." "Of Louisiana, Mr. Carew ." said the judge; "wei supposed this was a citizen of our State." "It is so stated in the will, yourhonor," replied Carew, "and it was probated here; but Mr. St. Andre was- but on a transient visit to this city at the time of the execution of this will, and was in no sense a citizen of our State; so I still say Louis St. Andre of Louisiana." "Well, proceed, Mr. Clerk," said the judge; and the clerk read the will presented to the reader in the last chapter. "May it please your honor," resumed Carew, "the plaintiff in this suit claims that -under the law, as well as in justice, she is legal heir to one half of all the property devised by this testament. She claims to be the child of Louis St. Andre; and we propose to show that at the time of the execution of this will he was not only infirm in body, but imbecile in mind; and that over that mind, weakened by age and suffering, undue influence was exercised by the defendant in this suit, Henri (Charette St. Andre, to the great V-       '      '     -   202        CHARTTr1. wrong and injury of his half-sister, the young girl here at my side, the plaintiff in this suit, Jacqueline St. Andre'." A thrill passed through Dymocke's frame.' That name, and this priest! associated here together. A feeling almost like fear came over himn; he could feel liis heart beating wildly, his limbs trembling; he scarce knew what he hoped, or what he feared.. He  gazed eagerly towards the young girl; her face was still closely veiled, her formn enveloped in a loose mantle. Then he recalled the scene in the bishop's garden at Mont- real and the words that fell from the lips of the nun. "There's rosemary; that's for remem- brance!"  A wild hope, he dare scarce admit' to himself, arose in his heart; might this not be his Jacqueline 2 His thoughts were interrupted by Carew, who resumed: "Let me briefly relate the history of this. Louis St. Andrd, whose last will lies before us." . Then he told, with all the magic of eloquence,. the story whose outlines are known to us. He drew in a few burning words a vivid picture of the horrors of the first French revolution, and of the peace and tranquillity that, prior to that time, rested upon La Vendee; and then of the struggle of that heroic peasantry, and of the scenes of blood and acts of noble daring there                )I    CHARETTE.       203 enacted. He told of the expatriation of the two young men Philip and Louis St. Alldre; he drew a cottrast between the easy life of Louis, / whose lot was cast amid the flowery fields and fertile lands of the balmy South, and the hard thil of 'Philip, in the bleak forests of, Canada. He pictured Jacqueline Coyer radiant in beauty, the destined heir of Philip; and showed how, in all -probability, but for his sudden death, she would have inherited all his vast wealth, which had by course of law fallen to his brother the testator. he spoke of the advent of Louis in Canada, and his marriage with the young Cana- , dian; of his subsequent confession of the il- legality of that marriage, and of his promise to right it; of the subsequent life of this pair at Charette, and of the honored love Louis always bore his wife; of their sufferings from the civil war; of their deaths. And then, in words that would have brought shame and confusion to any wretch less hardened than Henri St. Andre, he gave a detail off the defendant's conduct towards his orphan sister. He said: "In a breast where dwelt one spark of manly virtue, what emotions would have been awakened by that visit to Charette after his father's death! It was the place of his birth-the home of his childhood., Upon its now desolate walls hung the   204        CHARETTE. portrait of that aged sire whose industry had created it, of that fair lady whose beauty had adorned it, and of those heroic brethren who had died defending it. It was the holy Christmas time-the time when even evil spirits are sup- posed to seek their hiding-places--the time wheli the heavens proclaim ' Peace, good-will towards men.' At such a time, amid such scenes--scenies calculated to evoke the best thoughts, to stir the deepest affections, this mcmu,--oh that I should degrade humanity by calling him, so!--this monster, this Caliban, meets his orphan sister. She flies to him with outstretched arms; hle meets her with a blow; his foul tongue heaps abuse and obloquy upon her innocent head; and finally he ends by driving her from the shelter of her father's roof! O God! had you no thunder- bolt ready for such a wretch! "It is in the depths of winter; she knows not where to fly; but some instinct directs her steps toward that northern land--her mother's homle. Here for many dreary months, the Frost King holds undisputed sway; here, at the zenith of his power, in the month of January, on a darl, teln- pestuous night, this young girl all unattended arrives. She is in the great city of Montreal--a stranger unknowing and unknown.  Bit angels bear her in their hands! She is guided to the   CHAETTE.       205 home of one who was 'her mother's friend-of one whose simple virtues ennoble humanity--of him whose hand I now clasp, prold tol be allowed to call him friend--the Rev. Pierre Guardet." The interest among the auditory had become intense. By this time the court-room was crowded with eager listeners, and hundreds of curious eyes were directed alternately from Jacqueline to St. Andre-from  St. Andre to Jacqueline. She drew her veil closer and closer about her face; but he was proof against everyv shaft that Carew directed against him. As to Dymocke, lie was wrought up to the highest pitch of nervous excitement: his temples throbbed, the veins of his forehead seemed bursting. Miss Merrifield too had caught the infection. She had heard the name of Jacqueline: she had marked its effect upon Dymocke, and she felt that some new phase in his life was about to be developed. "Rejected by her own," continued Carew, "'an outcast and a wanderer, my client, guided by this good priest, found an asylum among her mother's kindred. "Upon our north rolls a vast and mighty streamn -the river St. Lawrence. On his broad bosom lie a thousand gems of beauty. When, in the summer time, his waters rival the cerulean slay,   206       CHARETTE. they show like emeralds, being clothed in nature's -greenest verdure. In winlter, when the Frost King has' laid his icy hand upon the godlike stream, they are chalnged to mighty pearls "eof purest ray serene." "Upon one of these gems-one of the Thousallnd Islands of the St. Lawrence, lived Antoille Coyer --brother of Mrs. Louis St. Andr ; and here for three years has dwelt, amid scenes of surpassing beauty, but in need and poverty, the heiress of vast estates, Jacqueline, daughter of Louis St. Andre, of Charette." "His bastard!" roared Henri St. Andre, stung at last by Carew's taunts and by his enlogium of his sister. The words were scarcely out of his mouth ere Dymocle with mighty strides was by his side. With h1  gloved hand he smote the reviler upon his cheek a blow that made him sway in his chair; then marching directly to Jacqueline, and taking one of her hands in his, turned his frowning face towards St. Andre. Jacqueline, when she saw Dytmocke approach- ing her brother in that threatening manner, in her anxiety had thrown back her veil, revealing to the curious frowd her exquisite beauty; and when she saw the lowering looks exchanged by him and St. Andre, a feeling of faintne s came over her; and Carew, although he understood not the cause of-   CHABEri'B .   207 her enmotion, yet fearing a scene, hastily sunmon- ing Mrs Talbot and Miss Merrifield, he requested thorn to attend his fair clienlt to a small rooln opening from the court-room. 'When the disorder arising from  this little episode was quieted, proceedings were resumed. 'Mr. Swagg rose to address the court, which he did in a strain of great vulgarity. He described Louis St. Andre as a man of the most dissolute habits; said, "if the claim of the plaintiff as a legal heir was allowed, scores of other claimants, with rights fully as valid as 'hers, would arise. He denied that St. Andre lhad ever any thorughts of making Jacqueline Coyer his lawful wife; pointed triumphantly to the clause in the will that declared Henri to be his only legitimate child; defied the plaintiff to produce any proofs that the testator was unsound in mind at the time of the execution of the will, or that any influence had been used to induce him to make it. He pointed to the three years that his client had held undisputed possession of the estates--said no such claim as has now been set up was ever thought of, until it was hatched in a secret conclave of Jesuits in the popish city of Montreal, whose representative, with brazen effrontery, now sits in this room, bearing a forged letter of Louis Andre's --a letter which, if written at the time stated,   208        CHARETTE. Would have perished in all human probability years ago. In short, may it please the court, this whole claim is but a Jesuitical plot to deprive a citizen of this Protestant land of his patrimony in order to enrich the coffers of a corrupt church --to add perchance another tower to the Jeslit College at Montreal; to erect another shrine within the walls of Notre Dame-certainly to forge new chains for the superstitions peasantry of Canada. For this purpose, with the craft and skill for which this order is proverbial, they have sought out this girl Jacqueline-a girl who for years has been consorting with a band of smug- glers--I know not with what other characters- and put her forward to make this claim. "If she, or rather they, are successful, it will be another blow struck at Protestantism ; another prop added to the tottering throne of the old man at Rome. But the very idea is idle; the whole thing is too preposterous; and as my client has important business to call him from the city, I beg the Court to dismiss this case at once, and so justice will prevail, and the Jesuits for once find they are powerless for wrong in a Protestant American court."  "I would inquire of Mr. Carew," said the judge, as Swagg brought his harangue to a close, " if he has any proof that a second marriage between   CHARETTE.       209 Louis St. Andre and Jacqueline Coyer was ever solemnized after the death of the first wife." "I have not, your honor, although I am now making search for the same, and it may be necessary to send to France. But your honor is aware that we look for no decision to-day on the validity of the will. All we expect at this stage of proceedings is, that the court will grant an order restraining the defendant from, in any way, parting with or encumbering the estate until these proceedings are closed." "I will grant such an order," said the judge, "as it can work no injury to the defendant if he succeeds in his defence. This case is certainly a most interesting one;' but I will say here, that the eventual decision will turn greatly upon the fact that a second marriage can be proved. The plaintiff certainly acquires no rights by the marriage solemnized by the Rev. Guardet; all her rights must come from what took place after the death of Marie St. Andre. "The case is adjourned for this day three months, if that is agreeable to you, gentlemen.5" The gentlemen were satisfied, and the court rose. "That was- a good hit' about the Jesuits,"' said Leach to his partner. "It was an inspiration that came on hearing   210        CHARETTE. Carew's eulogium on the priest. It did not have much effect on the judge, but it will tell if we' ever colne before a jury, alld we' may as well commlence manufacturinllg public opinion at onlce; so you had better preplare an article for tile 'Daily Slanderer.' Spice it hot: you can't throw in too  anlly allusions to the Jesuits, the Pope, Antichrist, the Babylonish wioman. and all that sort of thing." -lere the conversation of the two worthies was interrupted by the sound of Dymoeke's voice addressing St. Andre. ' I wish yol to understand, Mr. St. Alldre,' he said, " that you have no longer a mere girl to con- tend with. I am Miss St. Andreds friend. and. if : money is needed to obtain her her rights, it will be furnished;7' and then in lower tones he added, handing St. Andre his card, "I will!be at home this evening if you have any message for me" : How the eyes of Swagg and Leach glistened as they heard Dylnocke's words; visions of elld- less litigations and of enormous fees floated before them. Swagg thrust his great hands into his pockets, as if to ascertain if they were suffi- ciently capacious to hold his share; while Leach stretched forth his long neck and- thrust out his thick lips as if about to fasten upon his victim. He could not resist the impulse to lay his   CHARETTE.       2" clammy hands upon St. Aridre's shoulders, as if he wanted to commence his blood-letting opera- tions at once. Having fired his pating shot at St. Andre,  Dylnocke took his way towards the room where Jacqueline had retreated. In response to hs gentle rap the door was opened by Miss Merrifield, who, as sne admitted lilm, belkoned Mrs. Archie to her side and with her withdrew. Mrs. Archie would fain have relnained, for she was full of curiosity; but Miiss Merrifield's inborn delicacy told her this first meeting of the lovers should be alone. And we too, following her example, will not intrude upon so sacred a scene, but leave thle imagrination of the reader to divine it. If he is in the bloomn of youth, with a mind full of 'high thoughts and pure aspirations, well will he be able to fancy it; if he has passed that halcyon tilne, and has entered "the sere and yellow" period, memory will recall when he too experi- eniced the rapture of some such hour. Meanwhile, Miss Merrifield sat just without the door, her great heart swollen with emotion. A great joy had come to her lover; a load of sorrow and sadness was lifted from his breast; why should she not rejoice? Alas! poor human nature! Fain would it be heroic, fain would it   212        CHARErrTT. be godlike; but it is impossible-the. Azman in us will prevail. Even to this noble girl a feeling of desolation- would intrude itself when she en- deavored to rejoice at Dymoc e's joy. And so we leave her in her sadness, knowing that time will soften her grief, as it will dull the lover's   CHAPTER IX. EAR T     LBOT,-We have lost too much titne already. I propose starting for the South at nine A tM. to-morrow. As ryo are aware, our stables are at Richmond awaiting our movements; will take you up on my way to the depot." "ST. ANDRE." It was on the evening of the day whose chief events as connected with this history are narrated in the last chapter, that Archie Talbot received the above note. He was seated in the luxuriously furnished drawing-room of old Anthony Rich. As the world was warm in its praises of the honorable conduct of Archie in the payment of his debts (a fact which his friends Carew and Dymocke took pains to herald), old Rich, out of deference to public opinion, had received him again into partial favor. Still there was no love lost between these two; the truce was a hollow one, in danger of being broken at any time--the   214       CeHiRETTE. smouldering fire might at any imoment be fanned into a ltze. "The summons has come at last, Lizzie: I must leave you in the morning,'" said Archie, handing her'St. Andr'Is note to read.- "You surely are not going to consort with that man after what we have heard to-day," said Mrs. Arehie, returning St. Andre's note. "I must; he has my contract, and I am legally and honorably bound to go with him," replied Archie. "Honor.! I never before knew the word was known alnong you horse-jockeys," sneered Rich. Archie's face grew very pale. ' I fancy, sir," he said, "in public estimation the honor of the gentlemen of the turf stands quite as high as the honor of the gentlemen of" the street. " "Fiddlesticks!" growled Rich. "You go and squander your nmoney on a parcel of Jews and sharpers-nlot one in a dozen of whom could have collected at law--because your honor- requires it. Honor! humbug." "I am aware, sir, it is not your style, as Wall and Broad Streets have good cause to remember." This was a cruel thrust. It referred to a celebrated financial transaction in which the usually astute Rich was caght, during a corner, largely short 9   CIIARETTE.       215 of some fancy stock. The losses were immense, but there was a legal loophole, and through this Tony Rich crept, leavin g his creditors in the lurch. "It was your style, however," returned Rich, choking with rage, "'to sneak into a gentleman's house and beguile the affections of his child that you might get your fillgers into her father's molley-chest." "Father!" exclaimed Lizzie, trying to press her hand uponl his mouth. "If such was my purpose I have not been very successful," said Archie. "Alld I dol't intend you shall be," roared Rich, pusliing lhis daughter aside. "None of my money shall go to enrich a parcel of gamblers and blacklegs; depend upon that, sir! Pretty company you have got into, sir. Was it not enough that my daughter should marry a beggar but you must bring disgrlace upon us also?" By a great effort Archllie compelled himself to speak quietly, although his lips were pale with passion., "I will not disgrace you longer, sir, nor will I again uninvited cross your threshold. The time has come, Lizzie, that I have long foreseen : you imust now choose between yo1ur father and your husband. I cannot offer you wealth or position,   216       CHARETTE. but such as I have is yours. Will you come with me" "If she does, she goes with my curse," said Rich, "and not a stiver of my money shall she ever handle! Sooner than she should do so, I would sink every dollar of it, in the deepest depths of the sea." "I will take her with your curse and without your cursed money," rejoined Archie. Lizzie looked with longing eyes at her husband: then she took two little steps forward, when, hearing a stifled groan, she turned towards her father. She saw an old, feeble, gray-haired mann: she knew him to be wifeless-if she should leave him he would be childless too; if she left him, she left him to hirelings: in sickness there would be no loving hands to smooth his pillow, in death none to close his eyes. Before- her arose the memory of her childhood, ere her father had become the grasping, sordid, money- getting man we see him, when he fondled her in his arms and covered her with loving kisses. She recalled Archie's cold indifference and cruel neglect even in the early days of their wedded life, and she feared again to subject herself to the same treatment. So she stood irreso- lute, both men gazing upon her with anxious eyes.   CHARETTE.       217 "Archie," at length she said, "I am your wife, loving and true; where you go my heart will go also, but for the present my place is here;" arid, going to her father, she laid her hands in his. Old Rich's eyes beamed with triumph. As for Archie, he knew not the reasons which ,had led Lizzie to her decision: he only knew that the old man had threatened her with disinheritance, and it was for this cause alone that he supposed she had decided to desert him. "As is the father, so is the child," he mur- murred, "both worshippers of Mammon! So let it be, Lizzie," he continued, in a sad tone. I had thought better things of you. Farewell! As to you, sir, you have never ceased to heap taunts upon me from the moment I became con- nected with your family. This I can forgive you; but for estranging from me the affections of my wife I will never forgive you! She decides to remain with you; be careful how you fulfil the trust; she will be a widowed wife--subject to many temptations; see that she brings no dis- grace on my name or you must answer for it to me, who still am her husband;" and turning he left them. "O father! what have I done " exclaimed the poor lady, sobbing upon her father's breast. That same evening Dymocke' sat alone 'in his i        -       218       CHA R9TTE room waiting. He expected a message from St. Andre. - He knew he was a Southerner, accustom- ed to the duello, and educated to believe a gentle- man could not receive a blow without seeking to wipe it out in blood; but he did not know that he was a cowyard! So he sat waiting, and his thoughts were not altogether pleasant. Trlue Jacqueline had come back to him--come back as it were from the grave. He found her even more lovely in person than he had imagined, and he had discovered that, ardent as was his pas- sion, it was fully returned by its object. All this should have made him the happiest of men; but there was that dark message he was momentarily expecting; should it come, he would accept it, for he had given the insult and invited it. But he had not even the consolation of believing he was acting right; every instinct of his nature re- volted against the shedding of human blood. -He had been educated to believe duelling to be sinful; his reason told him it was foolish. He had no cowardly fears, yet life had suddenly be- come very precious to him. Yesterday he would have laid it down without a sigh-yea, welcomed -death as a kind friend; but to-day it was differ- ent: a great joy had come to him: his peer- less lady was restored; to die now were hard indeed!   CRHARErF,. -      219 And even if he returned from the field un- scathed, what then-? A brother's blood would cry from the ground for vengeance! And whose brother?  Hers-his love's. Horrid thought I True, he was an unnatural brother-one who had done his sister a great wrong; but still, in their veins ran the same blood,-still they called the same man father. Could she marry this brother's murderer? Would he not be banished from her sweet presence forever? Thus he sat waiting, the prey of sad thoughts. The clock struck nine; -he would wait no longer. Leaving word with his servant that should there be any visitors, to tell them he would be at home in the morning, he sallied forth into the night. He bent his steps towards the address Jacqueline had given him ; he would at least have the joy of one more interview. Her rooms were in a distant and more humble -part of the city, as her means were most limited.. Dymocke found the house, rang, and was ad- mitted, Within he found Father Guardet; the greeting on both sides was mlost cordial. A long conversation followed. Recognizing in the priest the guardian-Heaven    appointed-of Jacque- line, Hugh made a formal offer of his heart and hand. The priest, in reply, did not conceal that his ward's feelings were much interested in   220       CHARETTE. our hero, and that he was in every way accept- able to himnself; but stated that under no cir- cumstances would he give his consent to any marriage, nor would Jacqueline give her hand to any man, until the legitimacy of her birth was established--until the courts had pronounced upon the validity of her father's will. Dymnocke tried in every way, and by every ar- gulnent to combat this resolution, but the priest was inflexible, and he was forced to submit. He then made a tender of his purse to any extent, and promised in the morning to see Carew, and con- sult with hiln as to what measures were necessary for the securilg of evidence. "I know you are anxious now to see Jacque- line," said the Father, " but hereafter, for obvious reasons, these interviews must be very rare; but to-night, after what you both have suffered, I can- not deny you. I go now, and will send her to you, and my blessing I leave with you." And so saying, the good Father, his face beaming with kindly'feeling, left the apartment. Soon again the d oor swung upon its hinges, and JacquelinO, with timid steps and blushing cheeks, entered. All disguises are ended now. Clothed in -plain attire, but radiant in her magic loveliness, she stands before- her -lover. He devours her with his eyes, he stands entranced, feasting upon her   OHARETTE.       221 beauty, till she, abashed by his too ardent gaze, flies towards him and conceals her blushes upon his shoulder.; He folds her in a close embrace, exclaiming, scarce aware that he was using the words of- the world's great poet: "'0, my soul's joy! if after every tempest come such calms, may the winds blow till they waken death!" When these raptures had somewhat subsided, they seat themselves side by side for suchll col- verse as lovers most delight in. In this confidence, be assured, many things were cleared up that Dymocke did not understand. Jacqueline's visit -to New York was easily ex- plained. Desirous of -raising money for the pro- seeution of her suit against St. Andre, she had commenced disposing of her mother's wardrobe. Among other thngs was the point antique de Venise lace. This Coyer mentioned to Moses, and among theln they concluded to sell it in'the States. Jacqueline, weary of the sameness of her life on the island, was most eager to accompany Moses, and this the fond uncle could not deny her. It was her intention to have spent some days in New York, and she was filled with grief when Moses insisted upon her leaving in the night train, al- though she had an engagement with Dymocke in the morning; but she was forced to submit. Then her recovery from her wound.  When,  ,   222       CHARETl'r I the priest had borne her back to Coyer's house, he proceeded at once to examine her injuries. He was possessessed of some surgical and medical knowledge, and he decided that there was some hope for her life if proper medical aid could be obtained. Accordingly he despatched young Jean Coyer, to the nearest telegraph station, with a mles- sage to Montreal, for a doctor in whose qualifica- tions he had confidence, and as Antoine Coyer decided it was unsafe for him or his friends to re- main on the island after the, homicide they sulp- posed they were guilty of, it was determined to remove her to the mainland. Accordingly a rude raft was improvised, on which a mattress was laid, and on this, towed by all the boats belonging to the family, she was transferred to the little village of Gananoque, and, so wonderful in these days are the results of electricity and steam, hardly had she reached the sholre ere the surgeon appeared. The ball was extracted and, under the combined care of doctor and priest, the young girl's life was saved. Antoine Coyer with his family had taken up his residence in Montreal. Thither Jacqueline fol- lowed, but not to his hospitable roof-a roof that had sheltered her for three years ; but, influenced by Father Guardet, having been made to believe. that Dymocke was dead, she decided to take the   CHARETTE.        223 veil and devote herself to heaven. Fortunately she was only in her novitiate when she saw Dy- iooke at one of their ser\vices. Dymocke trembled when he thought how acci- dental had been his visit to Monltreal-how it arose from AMoses' seizing Archie Talbot's horse for debt. Theie was something ludicrous about it too, and Itughl smiled as he told Jacqueline how twice the Jew llad been Love's agent to bring them together. After leaving the convent, Jacqlueline went to spend a few days with her uncle Coyer, previous to her departure for the States with Father Guar- det. Here she somehow learned that Dymiocke's party was to be at the ball given in honor of the English prince. She succeeded in obtaining a ticket of admission, as she could not resist the tetmptation of seeing her lover ollce again and, if a favorable opportunity offered, she determined to discover herself to him. She went ill the garb of a lun, and Jean Coyer was her escort. She saw Dymocke. Gradually she approached and took a seat lnear him. Here she heard his conversation witlh Miss ]Merrifield, and saw the looks of adlni- ration he cast upon that lady when she unmasked -saw her dress enriched with point antique de Vellise, which she knlew to be Dymocke's gift; beheld the matchless beauty of her rival, and a   224        CHARET'E. feeling of despair took possession of her: for how could one so lowly as herself dare to hope to rival such as she? And it was with this feeling she gave Dymocke the heart's-ease, and divided the sprig of rue between Miss Merrifield and her- self. "You foolish one!" said IIugh. "Think youl any shafts from bright eyes could reach mny heart when it was shielded with such armor as this? ' And he drew from his breast an envelope contain- ing the bunch of rosemary fromn the Bishop's Pal- ace, and the wild flowers from the field where he supposed she had breathed her last. Their conversation here was rudely interrupted by a violent ringing of the door-bell, and soon they heard heavy steps in the passage, and loud talking. The door of the room in which they were sitting was thrown violently open, antwo poligemen appeared in the doorway. Dymocke, supposing some danger threatened Jacqueline, sprang to his feet and placed himself between her and the officers, and demanded their business. "Your name is Dymocke, sir?" inquired the larger of the two men. '"It is; and what have you to do with my name .'  "Hugh Dymocke?"   CHARETTE.       225 "The same." "We have a warrant for your arrest, and we want you to come with us.") "There is some mistake, my good fellow; I have committed no offence, nor violated any law." "You can read for yourself, sir," said the small man, handing Dymocke the warrant. Dymocke took the paper and read it. "This really seems intended for me," he sail, "but I am utterly at a loss to understand what has caused it. Do yotu know on whose complaint it was issued?" "No, sir. We had it from M1r. Leach-of' Swagg & Leach." "Oh ho!" said IIugh, smiling. "I understand it now. So this is the way St. Andre intends vin- dicating his honor! Gentlemen, if you will wait for me outside the door, I give you my word to join you in five minutes." The officers feeling they could trust him, com- plied with his request, and he turned to soothe the trembling girl at his side. To do this he was ob- liged to tell her the truth: that he had supposed he would have to meet St. Andre in deadly fight; but as St. Andre preferred seeking redress at the law, he was well satisfied; indeed he Wnras rather pleased that events had taken this course. "It will be but one night out of my bed, darling," he   226       c  l. said. "Nay, but part of i night; for see! the clock shows it to be long past midnight. I will send for Carew the'first thing in the morning, and as soon as the court meets, I will be dis- charged. So dry your eyes, pretty one; as soon as I am free, I will come to you, which will be before eleven." "But to think of you, shut up in that dark, loathsome prison, all alone for so many, many weary hours!" sobbed Jacqueline. "Lonely 1 why, I will beguile the time thinking of you, little one; think yot then I will be lonely? What better company could I have, save your own dear self in person . So, sweet, good- night. All angels guard you till we meet again." And with a light heart he tore himself away and delivered himself up to the officers of the law. The following morning Dymocke did not find his case quite so easily disposed of as he expected. He had supposed the charge would be assault and battery, and that by the payment of a suitable fine, justice would be satisfied and the affair elid- ed. The charge, however, was provoking a duel and inviting a ciallenge; and he found Swagg & Leach in court egging on the district attorney to insist upon the extreme rigor of the law. The statutes of the State of New York on this point are very severe, and are directed not only ,    CHARETTE.       22.7 against the principals, but against all aiders and abettors.               , i In spite of this, however, a duel had just been foughlt, the tragic result of which had violently excited: the public mind. A young man iln the bloom of youth, a son of a most venerable and esteemed citizen, iad been urged on to accept a challenge from a worthless and dissipated roud. He had fallen dead upon the field. His antag- onist had escaped^but the seconds had been ar- rested, and were now in confinement awaiting trial. The press was calling loudly for their punishment, and unfortunately our judiciary, a creature of the public, is often unduly sensitive to the opinion of that public, be it right or be it wrong. Consequently, when Dymocke was brought up for examination he found the judge strongly prejudiced against him. On the desk before him lay the "Mornillng Slanderer," in which, in a highly spiced article (prepared, by the way, in Swagg & Leach's office), Dymocke's conduct in the Surrogate's Court the previous day was severely commented on. Swagg & Leach swore to the insult offered to St. Andre by Dy- muocke ; also to his presenting St. Andre his card, at the same time saying, "I shall be home this evening, if you have any message for me." "My client understood the meaning of these   2238       CHARETTE. wordsifl said Swagg, ,'as your honor will 'under- stand them. It was to invite a challenge to deadly combat; but Mr. St. Andrd is a law-abid- ing citizen, and to the law he leaves the punish- ment of the prisoners. Dymocke could not deny that he intended, by the language he had used, just what Swagg as- serted, nor would he permit his counsel, Carew, to explain it in any other way. So- Swagg had all the advantage. This he saw, and made tile most of. Carew proposed at once that his client should be admitted to bail; but this Swagg op- posed in so boisterous a manner, that the little judge was fairly browheaten, until Carew offered a list of names as bondsmen so respectable and well-known, that for very shame he was forced to grant the demand. Then those bondsmen had to be sent for, and the bail-bonid drawn and signed. All this took time; and all this time Dymocke knew Jacqueline would be filled with fears (she was " a woman, naturally born to fears "). So to relieve his own mind and to quiet hers, he de- spatched messenger after messenger, with billets- doux full of sweet nothings, which sound so much like sense to young lovers; and as soon as he was free, he hailed the first cab that passed, which served as Love's chariot to bear hinm to the armns of his adored.   CHEAETTE.       229 All this time Archie Talbot and his companion, Henri St. Andre, were speeding towards Rich- mond, where Jean Coyer had preceded them with Aleibiades, and where also were St. Andre's "cattle.' St. Aindre found Archie a dull com- panion, and was at a loss to account for his low- ness of spirits, until he had wormled out of him the particulars of his quarrel with his fatlher-in- law, and his, separation from Lizzie. "It was a little rough on you, Archie, and not over complimentary to me," said St. Andre ; ' but it may not turn out as bad as it looks now: the old hunks can't last much longer, and when he goes you can easily win over the, woman again. Meanwhile you. are not the slave of any one pet- ticoat, but can lead a good jolly bachelor life, and when the old grav-beard is gathered to his fathers you can step into your proper place, manage your wife's income, turn pious, lead an honest life, and die a good old man, much respected by all your acquaintances. So cheer up, my boy; and now, to drive dull care away, we will go into the smoking-car, and cut for dimes." "No! I have not touched a card since my mar- riage : I promised Lizzie I would not, and I won't." "And she promised, that forsaking all others she would keep only unto you. How does she keep her promise "   26 U       CHUARETEL' . "Too true, too true," said Archie, burying hig face in his hands and almost sobbing aloud. "Well, I must get this off my mind, or I shall go minad! So here's with you, St. Andre6'; and rising, he led the way towards the smoking-car. St. Andre follow- ed, a satanic smile of triumph upon his lip. It was not without a deep purpose that St. Andre had joined fortunes with Talbot. His great horse, his pride, his glory, Flambeau, was dead; Alcibiades stood without .rival, the ac- knowledged head of the American Turf. By fair means if necessary, by foul means if possible, he determined he should be added to his stable, and he thought it would be strange if, with his knowledge of turf matters, he could not accom- plish this during the winter campaign. Seated in the smoking-car, cards were produced, and these two worthies proceeded to begtuile the time by cutting for dimes. Small as were, the stakes, Archie soon became interested in the vary- ing fortunes of the game. St. Andre watched him closely: soonW he saw the old eager look comlne back into his eyes, the same hectic glow upon his cheek and he knew the passion for gamining was once more upon him, and that never, never, never again would it leave him! Already he looked upon Alcibiades as his own. *    CHARETTE.       231 Miss St. Andre found herself suddenly trans- formed into a heroine. Her romantic story was bruited from mouth to mouth.  The idlers of Fashion, ever ready for a new sensation, seized upon this, and Jacqueline St. Andrd became the rage. Mrs. Talbot and Miss Merrifield took the lead in calling upon her. This was the signal for all their extensive circle of acquaintances, and soon the quiet of the humble street in which she had found refuge was broken by the rumbling of the chariots of the proud and wealthy, and her table strewed with the cards of the curious, who were eager to behold the girl who, in such lowly guise, as well as in "masculine usurped attire," could win the heart of the fastidious Hugh Dymocke. Overwhelmed by these civilities, the bewildered girl knew not what to do, until Miss Mcrrifield, anticipating her embarrassment, came to her assistance. To that poor lady strength was at last given to enact the heroic. She forced herself to rejoice in Dymocke's joy; she banished from her heart every feeling of envy or jealousy towards Jacqueline, who had supplanted her in his affec- tions. Indeed, she felt herself strongly drawn toward the young girl. She became her daily companion, her counsellor and friend. She teii'-   232        CHARETTE. dered her the use of her carriage, and accompanied her on the round of calls she was forced to make in returning the civilities shown her. She threw open her magnificent mansion, and gave a ball in her honor. This was a new experience for our heroine. Miss Merrifield selected her dress and attended to all the details of her toilette; and for the first time in many years, Jacqueline St. Andre found herself clothed in garments befitting her station. She had inherited some of her mother's love of finery, and she was a daughter of Eve; therefore it is not surprising that she experienced a thrill of pleasure as she surveyed herself in Miss Merri- field's large cheval glass, and felt that she was beautiful. And when she entered the spacious drawing-rooms'where the air was fragrant with the perfume of countless flowers, where strains from an unseen orchestra greeted her ears, where the light from prismatic'chandeliers threw a flood ' of radiance around, where she. saw fair women in vestures of wondrous beauty, and encountered Dymocke's admiring eyes beaming with love and pride, her soul overflowed with happiness. "Oh, my dear friend!" she said to her hostess, "this is fairy land! Alas for poor me, if, like some fairy spell, it vanishes away-if my brother per- sists in doing me wrong, and I have to go back to   CHARETTE.        233 my dull life on the St. Lawrence, or the still more dreary seclusion of the cloister!" "Fear not, pretty one, you shall never more leave us. Your pride now says if you lose your suit against your brother you will not marry ; and so says the good priest: but there is a little god who sits up aloft, who is stronger than priest or holy church, and he says you shall stay and be Dymocke's bride." Jacqueline's eloquent blush was her only reply. Among the bright and happy throng that filled Miss Merrifield's parlors, none seemed more wildly gay than Mrs. Archie Talbot. Ever since Archie left her she had seemed in a state of unnatural excitement. Every day saw her upon the -pave- ment or drive, and every evening at opera or ball. Tom Vance was her unwearied attendant, her constant cavalier. He seemed- but to live for her. All this was witnessed by his friends with sorrow and alarlm. They had warmly welcomed hium home from -England, supposing that after a short recreation he would settle down to the work of life, and take the position and assume the responsibilities that his education and talents fitted hifm for. They saw all these wishes and expectations dis- appointed. They saw him   but the slave of a   ;6z4       CHA'RETTE. woman, and she the wife of his friend. They reasoned with him, they expostulated in vain: he would fly from them to the house of his charmer, the home of the syren. You can see them now at Miss Merrifield's ball: the music of one of Strauss' wildest waltzes is' oil the air; Mrs. Archie's fair hand rests upon Vance's arm, that thrills at the touch; his right arm encircles her waist-their feet keep time to the music's mad strain. He draws her closer and closer to him-he feels her heart beat-his breathing fans her cheek. He is intoxicated with joy, his soul is filled with love--while she is urged on by an uncontrollable excitement, she can neither ex- plain nor comprehend; and again and agaill she whispers to herself, "How is all this to end? ' The music ceases. Vance leads her to a seat and flies to the banqueting-room: he pours down glass after glass of wine. Already his brain is on fire, his heart beating with tumultuous passions; and yet, to drown -thought, memory, honor, he is thus forced to add fuel to the flame. And where is old Anthony Rich the while? Her-father-how is he guarding the trust he has taken fronm Talbot Busy, busy heaping up riches, that perish in the using; while this poor soul stands trembling upon the brink of ever- lasting Death!   CHARETTE.       235 And so days weeks and months glide by. To Dymocke alid Jacqueline they bring that joy that springs floin a chaste and innocent love--a love that ennobles and refines. To Vance and Mrs. Archie they bring all the excitement that comes from uncontrolled passions-passions that allow no rest or repose. To Miss AMerrifield- spotless one-they bring peace-that peace flow- ing from duties well performed, from a life of self-denial and good 'Works. To Anthony Rich they bring increase of wealth. To Cecil Carew, added honors. And so the time passes by. 'I, AL   CHAPTER   X. ELCOME, thrice welcome to CharLette!" exclaimed Henri St. Andr6, leaping lightly from his carriage, and extending a helping hand to Archie Talbot. "Welcome to the honie of my boyhood: our campaign is. ended, and hele we will find rest. 'Tis a dull- looking place, Archie, but there is an inner cellar that your Yankee bummers, sharp-scented as they were, failed to find; and there the old man kept his choicest liquors. 'We'll teach you to drink deep, ere you depart': so cheer iup, my lad; better luck shall attend us in the North." Archie Talbot pushed aside St. Andre's hand, and slowly descended to the ground. He- was sadly changed since last we saw him: he looked ten years older, his face was pale, his eyes sunken, his step feeble. Since that fatal day when lie suffered himself to be beguiled into cut- ting for dimes, he had led a life of wild dissipa- tion. And then the t-urf business had riot turnedj out well; somehow the St. Andre and Talbot   cmtm:HARKTTK. l237 stables rarely won. As things went bad, St. Andre's spirits seemed to rise, and he constantly lured Archie on with hopes of better fortune. Of late, too, Alcibiades had shown signs of fail- ing: his food did not appear to nourish him; --he seemed short of breath, and had been shame- fully beaten in his last two races. Something of this Archie attributed to the fact that his groom, Jean Coyer, had also been ailing. With- out being actually sick he was weak and languid, and unable to attend as faithfully to his duties as heretofore. Consequently, Alcibiades had been left somewhat to the care of St. Andre's men, one of whom had ridden him on the two unfor- tunate races that were lost. Archie could not dis- guise from himself however, that something serious was the matter with his horse--sonething that the veterinary surgeons did not seem to understand, and that'his value as an article of merchandise was constantly falling. In short, Archie was in the toils of a sharper, though he knew it not. - It is an easy thing for you, St. Andre, to be gay and happy," said Talbot, turning to survey the landscape, on reaching the wide and spacious piazza that nearly surrounded the mansion  of Charette. "It is easy for you to be happy and gay after such luck as we have had, for there is no end to your wealth. I suppose, of this vast   238       CthARETTr. stretch of country that lies before us, you own- the larger part; bVt for a poor devil like me, another such a turn would be mny -ruin." "-My dear fellow," returned St. Andre, you know it has passed into a proverb that Fortune is a fickle damsel, but that like most'other damsels she loves a bold wooer; the chances are that if you should tempt her to-morrow she would shower you with golden favors. But we will not think of this now, but rest here for a while and recu- perate--then to it again. Ah! here comes Miles, my overseer-steward-major-domo--what you Will. How d'ye, Miles? this is my friend and partner, Mr. Talbot. We have come to rout you out of your hole, you old rat. Hope your larder is well stocked; as for the cellar-well, you will find but empty bins when we depart." "Waal, squire, they do say good wine makes good sauce, and good -sauce savory meat; so yon be answerable for the cellar, and I'll be answera- ble for the larder," replied Miles, a huge giant of a fellow, whose face was nearly covered with a coarse, red unkempt beard; his hair long and un- combed, with thick, bushy eyebrows, from be- neath which peered a pair of small, sharp, cun- ning, gray eyes. Indeed, when St. Andrd called him " old rat," Archie thought it was no inappro- priate title.   CHARETTE.       239 "Did you send those invitations to King and Seabright, as I wrote you?" asked St. Andre. "Yes, and have answers; they'll be here for dinler, an'll stavy a week." Good! that is well. Two jolly dogs, Talbot- deep drinkers and splendid shots. I foresee glori- ous times. But excuse me; as this is a strictly bachelor establishment, and not in the best of order, I must see after your rooms nyself. I will: return presently. Come, Miles." Left to himself, Archie turled again towards the landscape spread before him. Even in .1eg- lect ald decay, Charette was a noble inherit- ance. The mnlsion itself had little pretension to architectural beauty, but it was spalious, evi- dencing an open-handed hospitality. It stood on an elevation that commanded an extensive view, and was reached by a broad drive which was overshadowed by lofty and agedntrees. All around lay lauxlriant cotton lands-lands un- excelled in the whole world for the production of this indispensable plant. Already Archie could see the freedmen, with the oxen and mules, preparing the soil of bounlte- ous Mother Earth for the reception of the seed that was to fructify, in her warm bosom, into that wondrous staple which, tlough shorn of its political attributes, is still a mighty king, for it   240       CHARETT . bids commerce flourish, and lo! the white sails of a thousand ships belly to the breeze; the scream of the locomotive awakens the echoes along the hill-sides, and startles the wild-fowls amid the morasses; while the ceaseless plash of paddle and screw disturbs the slumbers of Thetis in her re- motest coral grove. It bids manufactories arise, and lo! Manchester and Lowell, and busy cities and sequestered glens, resound with the hum of machinery. It commands that the naked be clothed, and even the most remote African savage is furnished with his strip of cotton cloth. In the distance, Archie could see the muddy waters of the Mississippi, and could trace the passing steamers by the long line of bituminous smoke belched forth from sooty pipes. As he gazed, he grew covetous, and wondered why a brute like St. Andre should enjoy all these vast possessions, and he a beggar! Ilk was awakened from his reverie by the clat- ter of many hoofs upon the gravelled road, and soon he saw approaching St. Andre's horses, and with them Alcibiades, led by Jean Coyer. He descended to intercept them on their way to the stables. He saw Alcibiades and Coyer approach; how different their appearance now from that day -that glorious day--when they had snatched vic- tory and honor from veterans and heroes at the,   CHARETTE.       241 i Jerome lists! What fire was then in their eyes, what vigor in then actions! Now the eyes of both horse and groom were dull and bleary, their movements, slow and uncertain. Archie spoke not a word, but With a heavy heart turned towards the house. As he reached the steps he heard the sounds of other horses approaching, and soon a dog-cart, drawn by a pair of splendid grays, drew up, and two gentlemen alighted. St. Andre appearing at the moment introduced them. "-This," said he, " is Mr. King-Dr. King we call him, although I don't know that he possesses a diploma or has any practice among Our species; but for sick dogs, mules, or horses there is not his equal in the country." "Then I am right glad to meet him," said- Archie, "for 'Alcibiades has need of more skil- ful treatment,than he has had yet. Will you go with me now, Doctor, and have a look at him? ." "Leave it until after dinner, 'which will be served in a moment," said St. Andre. "And this, Mr. Talbot, is my friend Seabright-JMaqor Seabright. He is little, as- you see, but he -is gamey : he is a dead shot and an unconscionable drinker; have a care how you provoke him to a proof of either accomplishment. Oh, I am glad to see, gentlemen, you have brought your dogs: my kennels I expect have gone to the dogs long ago. We will start some game to-morrow. But "   XJ *"*"      CHARUTTEl'fi. come, I will show you all to your rooms, and din- ner will be on the table in a few minutes. We have no ladies, so we need not spend much time upon our toilettes." And he led the way into the house, his guests following. Archie had never before seen St. Andre so , chatty, and he gave him credit for making a bet- ter host than he supposed possible. When he had 'King and Seabright alone, St. Andre had a short confidential talk with each, the object of which may possibly be developed in this chapter. The dining-room. was lofty and spacious. Cov- ers. were placed for five: St. Andre sat at the head, Miles at the foot of the table. Archie foulnd him- self beside Seabright, with the Doctor opposite. The attendance was poor, one old gray-headed negro being the only servant in waiting. St. Andre seemed determined the dinner should not be a failure for the want of that sauce to which Miles had alluded. Indeed it would seem as if he must have some purpose in plying his guests so freely with wine. Before the soup was finished he had their glasses filled with golden sherry, and ere the fish was removed, champagne corks were flying; while the claret was gently warming at the kitchen fire, and the Sauterne cooling in buckets of ice. Archie saw that his companions were well con-   CHA-IRETTE.      243 s tent to second the intentions of their host, who was evidently bent on a carouse; and he, suffering from a thirst begotten of many nights' dissipation, and a prey to sad thoughts and deep anxieties, was nothing loath to play his part: so he filled his glass and pushed about the bottle with the best of them. St. Andre had the strongest head of the party, but even he began to feel the effects of his potations. In his cups he was apt to be somewhat pugnacious, at least till he got to the maudlin state, but being by nature a coward, was wont to exercise his pugnacity upon servants and men- ials-upon the small and weak. He was in this state when Pete, the old serving-man, whose feebleness should have been an excuse for any awkwardness, in passing the bottle chanced to touch a glass that stood brimming with ruby claret, and the contents were overturned upon the figured silk vest and lavender trousers of -the master. 'You d-d infernal nigger," exclaimed St. Andre, " take that for your stupidity; " and seizing the bottle from Pete's trelnbling hand, struck him a blow that felled hiln to the floor, and the carpet was stained with blood as well as wine. ' Take out the black scoundrel, Miles, and send in another boy," said St. Andre. The shock-haired giant rose and easily lifted   2444       CHARETTE. the body of the old man in his powerful arns; but being by this time somewhat uncertain in his legs, staggered' with' him towards the door, against which he was forced to lean heavily, and the door giving way to the pressure, both fell into the hall beyond. Archie and the doctor went to the assistance of Miles, while a chorus of African voices in loud wailing reached the ears of St. And're, who re- mained seated. St. Andre's menage consisted of a few old ser- valts who had belonged to his father, who were  too old and weak to be of any service on the plan- tation, and yet who, out of fear of the opinion of his neighbors, he dare not turn adrift. These lifted up tenderly the body of their aged companion and bore him to a distantquarter, where their outcries could not disturb the revels of the master. As to Miles, the shock of the fall served to sober him, and he was able to gather himself up without assistance. This little episode, far from damping the gayety of the party, only served to increase it. "I say, St. Andre,' said little Seabright, "we are so. snug and comfortable here, and the side- board is so handy, what say you to drawing the blinds, lighting the candles, have out the-cards, and so make a night of it?"   CIIARETTE.       245 The proposition was hailed with applause. St. Andre rang the bell. "Have up some one, Miles, -to clear off the dishes." In answer to the master's bell and Miles' loud shouts, a feeble step was heard in the hall, and a withered figure appeared at the door. It was that of an ancient negress, so old that her linbs trembled under her; her skin was like parchment, her hair like the hoar-frost, upon her face the senile smile of age. IHer appearance was greeted with a burst of laughter. "I say, Miles,'! said the doctor, "you're a good judge of women, only you want themn well ripened." "'I don't think Mrs. Miles-if there is such a person-need be jealous of this specimen," added Seabright., "St. Andre will make a change in all this, if he stays long," said Archie. "What do you mean, Miles, by having such a hag as this to wait upon us?." growled St. Andre. "Get out, you d-d witch," roared Miles, "and send Miss Sarah har, if there is no one else that can attend." "He! he! he!" gibbered the old crone, " he! he! he! ' Young men want de young wenches. 1 knozws 'em, I knows 'em-he! he! he! What for dey want ole wimmen? No! no! I know'd yer   246        CHA'ETTE. - fadder, 'Siar Miles, I know'd him when he was as sharp after a wellch as you be. He was a nigger trader den down Mississippi." "Get out, you hag, before I murder you, and do as I bid you," again roared the giant,'as he threw a biscuit at her to accelerate her mnovements. "Have you seen. this Miss Sarah, St. Andre . " inquired the doctor. "No, Miles has her ill hiding, I reckon," replied the host; "I never even heard of her." "Miles is a sly dog," said Seabright. "What is she like, Miles,-this concealed beauty. Has she a skin dark as the- sloe? does she cover her curly wool with a bright bandanna? are her lips protuberant? and does the hollow of her foot make a hole in the ground?" "  No rmatter what she's like, Major Seabright," said Miles, frowning. "She's not for you, nor for any other man [with a dark glance at St. Andre]. So you're all fair warned, rmy boys : any one who interferes with this ar gal has to deal with Josiah Miles;-" and he stretched forth and displayed his brawny right arm to add force to his warning. His words fell upon dull ears: his hearers were all pot-valiant, and not disposed to be overawed by one in Miles' position-St. Andre'sloverseer, and the son of a negro trader. Further chaffing was cut short by the entrance /   CHARETTE.       247 of the girl in question. Instead of a personage such as Seabright had depicted and the others imagined, she was a young and pretty quadroon. She was handsomely but somewhat gaudily dressed. The men exchanged glances. "I sent for you, Sarah, because there seemed no one else to wait. Whar are all the servants 9" asked Miles, speaking with great courtesy. "They are all weeping and wailing over old Uncle Pete, who still is senseless," said Sarah. "Wal, let 'en howl ; it may do 'ern go0 said Miles. "Just clar off this table, Sarah, close the blinds, and bring candles. We'll spend the even- ingr har." The girl did as she was bid, moving with infinite grace-but, to Miles, evident annoyance, contriving to exchange glances with each of the guests. "Thar, Sarah, thar," exclaimed Miles impa- tiently, as she lingered longer than seemed need- ful. "' That'll do: you can wait within call, and we'll ring if we want you."  Herdeparture was the signal for an outcry. \ "Oh, you sly dog! iyou cunning rogue! where did you pick her up? What eyes! what a bust! what grace! O Miles,. Miles, -you are in luck!" Miles frowned: "I tell you once again, she's for   248        CHARETTE. none of you. So hands off, or thar'll be trouble." Here he produced cards and chips and the palrty sat down to a game of bragg, and the girl was forgotten. "A (pony 'before we begin, boys," said St. Andre, filling some cordial glasses with raw brandy. Each tossed off his glass and plav commenced; slowly but surely the madness rose, larger grew the stakes, deeper and deeper the interest. Brandy circulated freely: some drank because they were in luck, some because they were losers. St. Andre and little Seabright were in great spirits --fortune was with them. Archie was gloomy, the doctor and Miles indifferent. Hours passed: it was after midnight: the con- stant passing of chips showed the varying fortunes of the game. The candles burned low. "Let us have fresh lights," said St. Andre, placing his hand upon the bell-cord and ringing violently. Sarah answered the summons.   St. Andre was well in liquor.  "We rang for lights, pretty one," said he, chuck- ing the girl under the chin. We rang for lights, but your eyes will render them unnecessary!" The girl laughed a merry laugh. Miles' faces before flushed with liquor, became suddenly purple. "Hands off, St. Andre," he said hoarsely; "the   CHAJRETTE.       249 gal is under my protection, and she shan't be meddled with!" "Your protection, indeed!." sneered little Seabright. "A pretty fellow you to claim a monopoly of such charms! Taste her lips, St. Andre; they burst with sweets waiting to be gathered."- St. Andrd needed no prompting. He seized the girl, who was apparently not very loath, in his arms and pressed his lips upon hers. t Hell and the devil, if you will have it!" shouted Miles, springing forward. With his right hand he seized the girl, and sent her spin- ning to the other side of the room; with his left, he planted a powerful blow in St. Andre's face that sent, hinm crashing to the floor. The girl herself would have fallen had not little Sea- bright opportunely caught her in  his arms. Holding her thus for a moment, he was tempted by the same fruit that had attracted St. Andre, and undeterred by his pnnishment, attempted to gather it, just as Miles turned. "And you. too, you little jackanapes!" he roared, rushing towards him. Bat Seabright, although like the rest somewhat uncertain on his legs, contrived to get the table between him and his antagonist, drew his revolver and fired; but his hand was too unsteady and his eye too dim "*    250        CHARErTTE. to make his aim very accurate. The ball passed harmless, and buried itself in the wainscot. Archie seized the pistol and wrenched it from Seabright's feeble grasp; the doctor threw him- self between Miles and his opponent. . St. Andre gathered himself up, and the girl escaped from the room.  The cause of the melee removed from sight, the clamor gradually ceased. Archie assumed the role of peace-maker. Miles, fired with jealousy and inflamed by wine, was hard to pacify; but St. Andrd, all his "pot valor " evap- orated, trembling in every limb, made an humble apology. Indeed hL\esldenly dropped from the combative to the maudlin state of drunkenness, and beslavered Miles and his companions with his loathsome caresses. Cards were now thrown aside. Miles himself went for fresh candles, the decanters and cigars were placed ,upon the table, and drinking re- commenced. When the rays of the morning sun forced themselves through the crevices in the blinds, they fell upon a sickening sight: five men in- the prime of life sleeping the sleep of the drunkard. A late breakfast of course followed such a night. Miles suggested that a few hours in the open   CHARETTE.       251 air would brace up their nerves and banish their headaches, and proposed that they should take their guns and try for ducks. St. Andre excused himself on the plea of not feeling well; indeed, his face was badly swollen from the blow he had received from Miles. 'The gentlemen there- fore left him to his own devices, and followed the dogs to the bayous. Some fair sport was their reward, and they bagged as mnuch game as could have been expected, considering the state of their nerves. It was late in the afternoon ere they returned. As they approached the house, they saw St. Andr6 seated, in a bamboo chair, on the piazza, and caught a glimpse of a white skirt disappear-. ing through a window opening on to the same. Miles' brow grew black as night. Before this Archie had had Dr. King out to look at Alcibiades. The doctor talked learnedly, but to his hearer unintelligibly, about the diseases of horses; looked serious when he had examined Alcibiades; shook his head, and gave no encour- agement that he would ever be a strong animal again; prescribed some medicine that he said nmight be of service, and promised to watch the case carefully. On his return from the field, Archie again visited the stable, but found no improvement.           t   252       CHARETTE. Coyer, too, looked feeble and sick; and when he led Alcibiades out for his master's inspection, and pointed to his drooping head and lack-lustre eye, the good fellow seemed ready to burst into tears. Archie's cup was nearly full. That night he declined to play, and went early to bed. The next evening, however, saw him again at the table, with cards, and chips, and brandy. And so the days and nights of a fortnight were spent.  Play ran high, and Archie found himself debtor, not only to his host, but to Miles, to Sea- bright, and to the doctor, and nothing left but Alcibiades, and he comparatively such a worth- less beast. Their sojourn at Charette was drawing to a close; it was their last night, as St. Andre must start to-morrow for New York, where the great suit of St. Andre vs. St. Andre was soon to be on again. St. Andre determined they should make a night of it; so the blinds were drawn and the candles lighted early. Archie commenced betting largely.' St. Andre plied him with liquor; he chipped in recklessly, and little Seabright began taunting him. "I would see your bet, Talbot, and raise it a hundred," he said, throwing down his cards;   CHARErTE.       253 "but what's the use? you owe me a pretty sum now, and I don't see as you can ever pay me." "You are afraid to trust me, ale you, Major Seabright?" returned Talbot; "you forget, sir, that I am the sole owner of the fastest horse in America, and that as soon as he gets well I can earn all the money I win." "Well, King says he never will be well; is played out." "I don't believe a word of it," said Archie, raking in the pool, Seabright declining to see his bet. "I don't believe a word of it; let me but once get him North out of this cursed South- ern miasma and he will be all right again." "Whether he is or not, " said St. Andre, "I am not going to see a guest and partner of mine put down for want'of a little money. I will make you an offer, Talbot ;:" here he took up the cards and proceeded to deal them slowly while he talked. "I will make you a proposition: I will buy Alcibiades, all broken down as he is. I will give you $5,000 for him, and you can have him back at the same figure any time within a week." Archie was picking up his cards: first an ace, then a knave-then an ace. It was Seabright's first bet. He chipped in a hundred dollars. Miles and the doctor threw down their cards. It was   254       CHARETTE. Archie's say: "I take your offer, St. Andre; give me the bills now." St. Andre and Seabright exchanged quick glances of intelligence. St. Andre counted out five thousand dollars in bills and handed them to Archie. "I see your hundred, Major," said Archie, and go a thousand better! X St. Andre threw down his cards. "I see that thousand, and raise a thousand!" returned Seabright. "I see your bet and raise it two thousand!" said Archie. "I see that, and raise it a thousand!? from Seabright. "I see your money, and call!" said Archie.  "There are my cards: two bullets and a bragger."  And he stretched out his hand towards the pile of bills and chips that lay upon the table. "And there are mine," said Seabright coolly-- "also two bullets and a bragger, and I have the age."  "Cheating, by --!" shouted Archie, laying his hand upon the money. In a moment Seabright's pistol was levelled full at Archie's face. "You d--d yankee," he said, "' take back that word and take your hands from that money, or 1'll kill you."   CBABi;TTE.       255 "I will not take back a syllable of it! Hear me, St. Andre: you may kill me amongst you, if you wish, but with my last breath I will proclaim you all a set of cheats and scoundrels." Every man rose to his feet. Seabright still covered Archie with his pistol. "Don't kill him, Major," Shouted St. Andre; "wing him, and then we will kick him out of the house." Seabright fired, and the ball entered Archie's right shoulder, passing out, however, leaving but a flesh wound; "Now, Miles," said St. Andre, " pitch the poor devil out of the house." "Not I," growled the giant. "I have done enough of your dirty work; do this yourself." Miles was suffering from an attack of jealousy, consequent upon some little love passages he had detected between Sarah and St. Andre. St. Andre observed that Archie's right arm hung powerless, and his courage rose. "'You have grown cowardly, Miles," said he. "Come, boys, let's get rid of the Yankee beggar;" and the three seized upon Archie. He defended himself as best he could with his left arm, but the three soon overpowered him, and opening a window pitched him out. He fell to the, earth, but the fall was broken by a thorn bush, which, however, lacerated   256       CHARETTE. him badly. He was nearly senseless, but he heard St. Andre exclaim, "Go to your friend Dymocke, and tell him worse punishment awaits himn, for daring to interfere in the affairs, of a gentleman. " Then a chorus of laughter and derision followed I  "I fancy," he heard little Seabright say, ' the scamp will be careful how he accuses a gentleman of cheating at cards again." "I reckon,' returned Miles, "he warn't far out thar; St. Andre knows how to deal." "Any way, I 'don't allow any Yankee stroller to accuse me of it," answered Seabright. 'Here Archie's senses deserted him and lie heard no molre. How long lie lay there he never knew, but he was roused by a rough shaking. The light of a lantern fell full upon his face, and a voice whispered, "If possible, rouse yourself and collme with me."  It was the voice of Jean Coyer. -Archie answered by a groan, "What is it, Mr Talbot, are you hurt?" "I fear I am, Jean; the scoundrels lodged a bullet in my shoulder, and I fell pretty heavily." "My poor master!" said Jean ; " but if possi- ble, for the love of God, rise and come with me Z more depends upon it than you think. There, lean on my arm; are you better?" "Yes, the night air revives me. What have youL to say, Jean V"   CHARETT1E.      257 "Let us get farther from the house; we -may be overheard." They were upon the lawn, and not far off stood a rustic summer-house. Hither Jean led Archie, and assisted him to a seat. "You are among a lot of sharpers, Mr. Talbot," said Jean. "They are cheating and robbing you." "I know it," groaned Archie. "Do you, sir a How did you find them out ." "IIow ' Haven't they stocked the -cards, cheated me out of my money, robbed me of my horse, pistolled me, and thrown me out of the window!"  "Is it possible!" said Jean. -"And they have drugged Alcibiades, and poisoned me too, the scoundrels!I' "Drugged Alcibiades, and poisoned you!" exclaimed Archie, the startling revelation reviv- ing all his faculties. "What do you mean?" "I have been a little suspicious for some time that all was not right, and have been on the watch, and this afternoon I heard that Dr. King talking with Jim. I heard enough to assure me that they were drugging Alcibiades to stupefy him, and so lessen his value that St. Andre might buy him at a bargain.., I tried to get to you, sir, before dinner, to tell you this, that we might   258        CHARETTE. at once get out of the place, but I could not." Archie groaned. "Too late now, Jean! I have sold Alcibiades, and am totally ruined!" "Sold Alcibiades, Mr. Talbot! '" exclaimed Jeall in amazement. "Tell me all about it." Alld Talbot related to Jean all the events of thp evening. "You were cheated, swindled," ;said Jean, as sopin as he had heard Archie's tale. "It was all a plot, a game, to get possession of Alcibiades. Don't stand it, sir; let us see if we can't beat these 'fellows yet. Crone with me and we will have up this fellow Jim, and hear his story, and if we find that my suspicions are correct, we will see what we can do. But first let me look at your arm." Coyer placed the lantern so that its beams fell upon his master. He removed his coat, and found the sleeve of his shirt drenched with blood. Jean cut this sleeve away; the wound was still T bleeding slightly. With the linen of the sleeve he made a bandage, and bound it tightly about the arm, and constructed a sling for the disabled member, of two handkerchiefs, and Archie found himself more comfortable. Jean led the way towards the stables. Archie had never carried a concealed weapon, and was unarmed. His companion thrust a revolver into   CHARETTE.      259 his left hand, and asked him if he thought he could use it if necessary. Archie thought he could. They made their way to a room in the stable -where Jim slept. Coyer threw the light from the lantern upon his face. He was a mu- latto boy. "Now, Mr. Talbot, cover him with your pistol, and I will wake him." Archie did so, and Jean awoke the slumnberer with a kick. The boy start- ed up and gazed wildly around. Jean clapped his hand upon his mouth.  "Not a word, Jiln," he said, "or you are a dead nigger. We are not going to hurt you if you will tell us the- truth. We know you and Dr. King have been i playing the devil with Mr. Talbot's horse. What we want to know from you is, what you have been giving him, and who put you up to it. Now, don't manufacture any lies, for it will be of no use; we are going to have the truth out of vou if we have to cut it out with a- knife;" and Jean displayed a forqidable looking bowie-knife. Jim glanced from this to the pistol that Archie still levelled at him, and then at the determined look of the two men, and surrendered at once. "I won't tell no lies, Massa Talbot," he said. "You jest pint dat dar pistol todder way; it don't look invitin'. Mars' St. Andre, he just gibbed le ,de medicine for 'Biades when we was   260       CHARETTE. down in Orleans-said 'twouldn't hurt nuffilln. When Dr. Kiiig come, he gib me nodder bottle. Said if bottle number one made him too droopy, I must gib him some of number two, den- he'd be all right agin. Dr. King, he came here dis ebening; said I needn't gib him any more num- ber one, dat de game was about played out; and ordered a big dose of number two. I gibbed him a putty big dose, and I reckon you'll find him better in de morning.' "And have you been giving me some of this number one also?a asked Coyer. "Ya, ya," grinned Jim. "I gibbed you a little now and den in your grog." "And what did you do that -for?" demanded- Talbot. "Massa told me-said 'twould make him little bit sick, and then I could ride 'Biades." "And you did ride him-ride him with a ven- geance. How came you to be beaten?." "Massa gibbed me hundred dollars for doing dat ;-but, by golly! 'twas hard work. '-Biades got de go in him!" Archie began to comprehend that he had been cheated every way and at every turn. "And this number two," asked Coyer, " will it take this weakness out of my legs, and give me back my strength . " O                  \   AOHRETTE.       261 "I done reckon it will." "Where will I find it?"  Jim pointed to a shelf on which stood a number of bottles and phials. Here Jean found one marked with a fig- ure 1, and another with the figure 2. He took down the latter and demanded of Jim if that was it. Jim nodded. "I don't know whether to believe you or riot; here, you yellow-faced scoundrel, swallow a lot of it first." Jim made a wry face but showed no signs of. fear, took the bottle, and drank a portion. Coyl then took a small dose, and corking the bottle carefully, put it in his pocket. Archie and Jean now drew a little apart and held a consultation in a low voice. At its con- clusion they ordered Jim to get into his clothes, and follow  them. Jean led the way to the stables. He had a key of each door. They went directly to Alcibiades' stall; the intelligent beast gave a whinny of recognition on hearing Jean's voice.  Jean was overjoyed: it was the first time for weeks that he had done this: and it showed  the antidote already had had some effect. They directed Jim to saddle and bridle him.  Then they bade him bring the next fleet- est horse in St. Andre's stable-Black Dan. He too was saddled and bridled. Then Jean was or-)    26,2       CHARETTE. dered to fasten spurs, upon Archie's heels, while Jean did the same office for himself. "Now, my lad," said Talbot, " get you back to your room, and if I hear you have uttered a sound until these horses are missed, and I ever meet you again, I will cut your tell-tale tongue from your throat. So back with you!--and Jean, bring a strong rope." Our two friends accompanied the mulatto back to his room, bound him hand and foot, tied Jean's neckcloth about his mouth, and so left him, tak- ingc, the precaution to -lock the door and carry off the key. The filrst faint streaks of dawn were discernible in the East as Archie on Alcibiades, and Jim on Black Dan, issued forth from the stable yard. They moved cautiously, taking care to keep as nmuch as possible on the turf to deaden the sound of the horses' hoofs. Their route led them past the mansion of Charette. Here Jean suddenly recollected something he wished to carry off with him, threw his bridle to Talbot, sprang lightly to the ground, and ran towards the outhouse where was his sleeping apartment. Archie was greatly annoyed, for he feared some early stirrer might discover them and give the alarm. In fact, Jean on his way to his room roused up a slumbering dog, who began to bark and howl. This seemed   CHAERTTE.       263 to- awaken every other beast of the same species about the place, and a chorus of yelps and barks followed. Jean soon reappeared and imounted. "What trumpery article took you back?" in- quired Archie; "you would risk your- life for some foolish keepsake." "It is but a book that old Aunty Sue gave me: it belonged to Cousin Jacqueline's mother, and the good old soul insisted upon sending it to her. I believe it will give Jacqueline some pleasure, so I brought it." "Well, we are -out of sight of the house now, and nmay move a little faster," said Archie. Soon they reached the highway. Neither had much knowledge of the topography of the coun- try, but they had a general idea that it would be best to travel northward and keep near the river, with the chance of catchiilg a northern-bound steamer at some of the landings. They felt the importance of pressing on as fast as possible, as they knew that as soon as the horses should be missed, a hot pursuit would be inaugurated. Yet the debilitated state of Alcibiades, Jean's enfee- bled condition, and Archie's wound showed them that their progress must of necessity be slow. Still they would have some hours' start, as St. Andre and his companions undoubtedly kept up their carou-   26 i       0HARETTE. sal until a late hour, and would not be stirring early; so that unless Jim should contrive to give the alarm, it would be some time before they were missed.                j When the morning broke, and they were able to discern objects more distinctly, Jean began to recognize some familiar scenes, and soon he announced to Archie that they were on the road by which he with the grooms and horses of St." Andre's stables had reached Charette. He was certain that by continuing that course, they would reach a landing on the Mississippi, where many boats were accustomed to touch. If they could manage to catch one of these, and get off, before St. Andre overtook them, they would have a fair. chance of escape, taking Alcibiades with them. As to Black Dan, they would leave him behind, and St. Andre could claim him when he found him. In this hope they urged on their horses as fast- as was prudent for Alcibiades or themselves. It was about noon when they reached a little wayside inn, where they were enabled to get some needed refreshment, both for their horses and themselves. Here Jean, took another dose of ZNo. 2, and gave some to Alcibiades, and he found that not only did he feel better himself, but that the horse also showed signs of, reviving spirits.   CTARETTE.       265 They rested here an hour. Ill conversation with the landlord and men about the place, they learned that the early spring rains had swollen some of the streams that they wofuld have to cross, and a traveller, who arrived while they were diiining, stated that a bridge over one of the larger branches--never very strong ats the best, and now pretty old and in a general state of decay-was in imminent danger of being swept away. Indeed, he was of the opinion that they would not find it, safe to cross, even if it should be still standing. When they again mounted, Archie noticed that Jean had a large axe swung at his saddle- bow. Inquiring his object in thus adding to the weight le had to carry, Jean said it was his intention to give the coup de grace to that rickety old bridge, if they should be so lucky as to cross it. The afternoon was well advanced, when they reached the brow of a hill, from whence they caught a sight of this stream. Even at the dis- tance at which they stood, they could. see that its waters had overflowed the banks, and were rush- ing onward with terrific force and velocity. At the same time, another unpleasant object struck' their sight. The range of elevated ground on which they stood, made a sudden turn to the 12   266        CHARETTE. north, making a bend almost at right angles-: 'thus they were enabled to see another road, which crossing- this range, united with that on which they were travelling, some quarter of a mile or so from the bridge. As they stood lbreathing their horses upon the top of the, hill, they saw a horseman standing on the other road on the s m- mit of the range. He was joined by another and another, and half a dozen more mounted men. Archie called Jean's attention to the group; he surveyed them for a moment before speak- ing. "I fear it is all up with us, ZMr. Talbot," he said. "That undoubtedly is Mr. St: Andre and his friends.' "What's to be done?" queried Archie. "- If we go forward we must encounter them where the roads meet: olughlt we not to turn back 2.  "If we do," replied Jean,-' it is only a ques- tion of time: we are sure to be overtaken. If we could get to the bridge first, and after cross- ing destroy it, we would be safe." "Forward, then!" said Archie; " to . waste time in deliberation, is to be lost." So they connmmenced their descent of the hill. As soon as they were sheltered from the view of the opposing party, they urged their horses to a VLIV VrVllt rV VJ VIIV   CHARETTE.       267 rapid- trot. Black Dan was one of ,Mr. St. Andre's best and fastest horses, so they had no fear blt that he would do his part. All their fears were for Alcibiades: his sickness, or rather the drugging to which he had been subjected, had left him in a state but little fitted for hard work. Still, he looked better now than he had done for days, and it was evident the effects of the drug were in some measure passing off. And now when he heard the voice of Jean Co yer speaking to himn as he had heard in days past, something of the old spirit returned, and some- thing of the old step. When on the level again, a piece of woodland still concealed the cross-road from view; they were therefore in doubt where the pursuing party was : whether, havilg discovered themn, they too were running their horses, or if they were approaching more slowly., Their doubts were soon set at rest: they reached a point where they could obtain a view of the road again, and there they saw the St. Andre party urging their horses to the top of their speed. Both parties, pursued and pursuers, caught sight of each other at the same moment: the latter were but a few rods. behind; they gave a yell of triumph.  It was a motley crowd of whites and blacks. . At their head was St.   268        CHARE'r E. Andre, beside him, Miles. Archie could hear the exalting shout of the former, and the stentorian voice of the latter, urging forward the huge beast on which he was mounted. They evidently felt sure of their game. "For the bridge! for the bridge!" shouted Jean, as he struck the spurs deep in Black Dan's side. Archie spoke to Alcibiades,--he touched hin lightly with the spurs: the noble beast felt the prick, he heard the sound of the hoofs behind him; again lie felt the enmulation of the course; again he launched out into that famous stride that had excited such amazement at Fordham. He in- crleases the distance between him and his pursuers; he passes Black Dan-he approaches the bridge. It still stands, but it is creaking and swaying and- trembling in every timber. The swollen tide is roaring beneath, like some angry monster eager to devour it. To attempt to cross -seems perilous in the extreme; but beyond is safety--on this side death! Archie hesitates not a moment, but Alcibiades does. He stops and refuses to cross- but for a moment only; he hears Archie's en- couraging voice-he feels the spurs-he hears the thnder of the pursuer's steps, and he dashes on the frail structure. Black Dan and his rider follow. The monster, foaming and rushing and ;.            i   -CHA-tETTE.  -269 tumbling beneath, seems to utter a louder roar; at every step the old bridge, that alone keeps them from his devouring maw, seems aboutt to crumble beneath them; it shivers and trembles, but it holds, and they are upon solid earth again. As their hoofs strike the turf, their-pursners reach the opposite side of the stream. Jean springs to the ground with his axe. St. Andre urges his trembling steed upon the bridge. Jean swings high his axe in air. Archie sees the danger-a generous impulse seizes him: he shouts, "Backl back! St. Andre, or you are lost!" But St. Andlre is blind to the danger, lie is deaf to the- warning. On he presses-; he is near the centre of the bridge, when his horse refuses to proceed, and stops trembling in every limb. St. Andre looks around. All at once he realizes his situation: his coward soul is overwhelmed with fears; he slips frorm his horse, he falls upon his knees; he dares neither go forward nor backward, his limbs refuse their office; he sees the turbulent waters, he hears the ceaseless stroke of Coyer's axe. tie cries aloud, "Save me! oh save me! Talbot! Miles! help me, oh help!"  Still the waters rave and roar; still the bridge shivers and trembles; still goes on the stroke on stroke of the inexorable axe. The poor wretch, with blanched cheeks and white lips, still stretches   270        CHARETTE. forth his hands, imploring help, when the totter- ing structure gives one last mighty shiver, as it were a living thing, then falls with a crash, anid goes sweeping down the stream!   CHAPTER   XI. THE room where the Surrogate holds court is crowded. The great case of St. Andre versss St. Andre is onl. For five long days it has occupied the attention of the court; for five days the public press has carried the testi- mony of witnesses, the arguments of couinsels, the. rings of the Judge, into every household and counting-room. Far different is the scene now from that presented on'the day on which proceed- ings in this great case were first inaugurated. Then the room contained but indifferent specta- tors; then St. Andre was arrogant in his pride- Certain of success. Then Miss St. Andre sat shillking beside a poor priest-he her only friend. Now this is all changed: now the room is crowded with elegance and beauty, and fair ladies jostle each other roughly, as at an opera matinee, in their efforts to secure favorable positions. Now Miss St. Andre is accompanied by Hugh Dymocke, once the pet of fashionable society, and by the rich and beautiful Miss Merrifield;   2720       CIEARETTE. while amid the audience she has troops of friends. St. Andre, feeling hilnself the object of scorn and contempt to nmany, has lost much of his blus- ter; indeed he is not as strong physically as before, for he is but just recovering from the effects of his enforced plunge into the swollen branch where we last saw him. Then he was nearly drowned, and would inevitably have perished had not his overseer Miles stripped off his coat, and 'at the ilnminent peril of his own life plunged into the torrent and drawnl him to the shore, more dead than alive. Swagg and Leach, too, at first appeared some- what nervous and iuncertain; but as the case pro- ceeded, ald they were enabled to see Carew's hand, and to know what he could prove and what he could not, their courage rose, and their effrontery and insolence returned. Indeed, Carew found his case unexpectedly weak: all efforts to discover proofs of a second marriage had failed. No expense had been spared: Dymocke had sent skilled emissaries throughout Canada, the Lower Provinces and France, without avail. Not the slightest proof of such a marriage was found. Then Carew was unfortunate in finding wit- nesses as to t h mental condition of Louis St. Andre at the time the will was executed. The  proprietors of the hotel only remembered him as   CHARETTE.       273 a feeble old man, who was confiled most of the time to his room, and could swear to nothing nfinite as to the somundless of his mind. The iters and employes about the hotel at the time of a is sojourn there, had mostly left, and were hard to find; and he had got hold of no one who could materially aid his case. It is true he had discovered Michael Donohue, one of the two witnesses of the will. He was porter at the hotel at that time, and had witnessed the signing, at Henri St. Andre's request. He was prepared to swear that the old man was entirely unconscious at the time, and that Henri St. Andr6 had guided his hand as he traced the signature; that he was in his room on the day preceding this, and from the appearance of the old man then, he judged him to be in the last stages. of life; that he had then heard him in feeble voice implore his son to send for a priest, that hb might receive the last sacrament, but his son replied that " he did not propose to have any d d priest meddling in his affairs." That he never saw any priest there; and tlat he had heard the servants about the place express the opinion that the old man died, without the last rites of the church. But this witness-the most important one the plaintiff had to produce-had suddenly disappeared, and Carew supposed, and was probally right in his 12*   274        OIIARETTE.  supposition, that Swagg and Leach had bought him off and sent hiln out of thes country. The other witness to the will was little Major Seabright, and he swore positively that the tes- tator was perfectly conscious, and in his right mind at the time. The doctor who had attended Mr. St. Andre in this last sickness, was then a young and obscure practitioner., Now, he was suddenly possessed of sufficient means to enlable him to take an ex- tended pleasure tour, and was lost to search in sone far distant country. Thus Carew carne into court, almost as illy prepared for the trial as on the day he had first opened the case, and he felt he had a difficult and almost hopeless task before him. But his whole soul was enlisted in the case: he believed in his client; he believed she was entitled to all she claimed. Miss Merrifield's eyes too were upon him, and he had every desire to stand high in that fair ladys opinion; so he nerved himself to his work.  Period after period of winged words poured from his lips; his clarion voice rang out in denunciation of a great wrong; and all the tricks of logic, of subtle reasoning, and bewildering argument were employed to aid his cause. Indeed, the audience was so carried away by his eloquence that it could scarce refrain   CIARETTE.       275 from expressing its approbation by, applause, and lallny thought his side would winl, and the will be brloken; but when Swagg arose, and in clear terse. terlms showed the fallacy of Carew's argumellts,  read the lawj and cited case after case in support of the defence, their hopes vanished, and all or nearly all gave up the case. Still there was sufficient doubt to detai the spectators, until the Judge had pronounced his decision, and, when he arose for this purpose, a breathless stillness reigned throughout the room. The heart of the Judge was as tender as his head was clear, and before he begunl to speak he bent a look of compassion on Jacqueline. She was trembling violently and had grasped Dymocke's hand and held it fast, as if she fealed she was about to hear the words that were to separate them forever. Before pronouncing his decision, the Judge reviewed the evidence in every detail: he did not spare Henri St. Andre, but described his conduct in fitting terms, and implored him, by the respect he' bore his father's memory, by the affection lie should bear to one in rhose veins ran that father's blood,-by the instincts of a common humanity to do a deed of simple justice,--acknowledge the plaintiff to be his sister, and share with her his estates. Here he   276        CHAErE. paused, as if expecting a reply: but-St-Andre sat imnovable, uttering no sound; while Swagg and Leach smiled scornlfully. " lThen," continued the Judge," I it remains for me only to pronounce the decision of this court. Great is the seeming severity of this will towards the plaintiff: still the law must not be wrested frorm its intent for a mere sentiment of humanity. The last will and testament of a dying man is a sacred thing, and must not be disturbed without good and suf- ficient reasons--on clear evidence of fraud, or on sufficient proof that the testator was of unsound mind." In this strain the Judge went on for some time. Jacqueline pressed harder the hand of Dylnocke, holding it with a convulsive grasp. The good Father Guardet lowered his head in his hands overwhelmed with emotion, while the moist eyes and heaving bosom of Miss Merrifield showed how poignant was her sorrow. Still the Judge went on--evidently delaying, from his tender feelings, pronouncing the words that were to dash to the ground all hope. It was at this supreme moment, when all hearts were beating fast, all ears strained to listen, all feelings wound up to their utmost, that an in- terruption occurred. A 1mana was seen elbowing his way through the   CHARETTE.       2" crowd: he forced himself to the front, and ap- proaching Carew handed him a packet. It was Jean Coyer! "I received this in trust for Miss Jacqueline," he said, addressing OCarew; "-but Mr. Talbot, who chanced to look it over, told mre lnot to rest night or day unltil I had given it inlto your hands." Carew opened the packet, and took out a book, which he glanced over. It was in -manuscript. At once a ray of hope shone on his face. "Mlay I interrupt the court," he said, rising. The Judge paused. "Chance," continued Carew, ' or rather, let me say, a good Providence, has just put in my hands a document, which may be instrumental in clear- ing up this mystery. I beg, therefore, that your honor will suspend your decision to allow me to look it over, and if I find it of the importance I anticipate, that the case lnay be reopened, and we be allowed to present it in evidence." Swagg was at once on his feet, declaring that the- case was closed, and that no new evidence could be introduced. He was interrupted by the Judge, who said, "I do not intend that any arbitrary rules shall pre- vent our arriving at the truth in this case. You can have half an hour, Mr. Carew, and if at the expiration of that time you find you have allny- i-   278        CIIARETTE. portant evidence to present, it shall be allowed. We know well, 1Mr. Carew, that you will not trifle with the court by presenting any trivial or doubt- ful testimony." Carew bowed, and rising, requested Father Guardet and Jacqueline to accompany him illto a separate apartment. - The court took a recess of thirty minutes, dur- ing which time the audience amused itself conjec- turing what could be the contents of the packet Carew had received.  At the expiration of the half hour, the court resumed its session, and Carew and his compan- ions reappeared and took their seats. One glance at their countenances told Swagg and Leach that something of importance had been brought to light, but they knew not what it could be, and they whispered earnestly with their client; but the blank looks of all three showed that he too was unable to enlighten them. Carew called Jean Coyer, who took the stand and was sworn. After the usual qulestions were asked and answer- ed, as to age, place of birth, etc. the following is the record of the court: Q. "What is vour present occupation? A. Gzbom and rider of the horse Alcibiades, belonging to Mr. Talbot. Q. Are, you in the pay of Mr. Talbot I    CHAkETTE.       279 A. Yes, sir. Q. How long have you been thus employed? A. Since September last. Q. Have'Mr. Talbot and Mr. St. Andre been in partnership of late? A. They have. Q. In your capacity of rider and groom of this horse Alcibiades, have you ever been in the South- ern States  A. I have but just returned fromn there. Q. During that visit South, did you ever stop at a place known as "Charette," in Louisiana? A. I did. Q. To whom does this place called Charette belong  W1ho is its owner  A. Mr. St. Andre, as I understand. Q. Now look at this book, and tell me if you- have ever seen it before? A. I have. Q. Where? A. First at Charette, from whence I brought it and gave it to you to-day. Q. In whose possession did you first see it? A. In possession of an old negro servant of Mr. St. Andr6, called Aunty Sue. Q. Did she place it in your possession? A. She did. Q. For what purpose, or with what instruction?   280        CHARErK. A. With a request that I would take it North with me, and give it to Miss Jacqueline, meaning Miss St., Andre. Q. Did she sayr why she desired this? . A. Yes; she said it had belonged to Miss Jacqueline's mother, and she thought it would please her to have it. "Now mayv it please the court," said Carew, "having shown how the book came into our pos- session, I propose to offer it in evidence. It is the private diary or journal of Mrs. Louis St. Andre, commenced before her marriage with Louis St. Andre, and continued some time after that period. As it is in the French language, ani interpreter will be necessary, as I wish to have some passages which I have marked, read to the court."- An interpreter was easily found, who being sworn, proceeded to read as follows: allay 21st.-To-morrow will be my wedding- day. How strange it seems that I, a poor girl,  should marry into the family of the proud St. Andrer. I pray the pure Virgin that I may be a true wife, a worthy companion of Louis. May 22d..-The bridal morn! How blest amin I! I went to early confession and received abso- lution. How I respect this young priest Guardet. His advice is so timely, his admonitions so full of wisdom; and when he laid his hands upon nk-   CHARETTE.       281 head and blessed me, I felt as one of those little ones must have felt when the dear Lord Hilmself took them in His loving armns and blessed them. Then Louis- and I partook of the sacramenlt. I am so happy! Dear Lord! sweet Mother of ny Lord, make me worthy of all this bliss. May 23d.--Married! A   wife! No longer, little Jacqueline Coyer, daughter of the poor woodmall; but Jacqueline St. Andre, wife of Louis St. Andre. How shall I ever fill my high station! God helping me, it shall not be by for- getting mny humble birth, my hard-working father, my dear brothers, my aged mnother. No! I will follow Father Guardet's advice; I will ennoble my station by deeds of loving-kindlless - bv works of charity-by using all this wealth, that Louis insists upon placing at my disposal, in the service of God. May 30tA.-A week of happiness and festiv- ity-a week's holiday for all La Darbelliere. The mills have been closed, the men brought in from the woods, and the Manor House has been dressed fresh every day with garlands and greens. The lads have played at quoits, at wrestling and leaping ; and the girls have been dressed in their Sunday frocks, and have danced more than half the night away in the great hall. And I have been the queen of it all! And the good father   282       CHARETTE. and mother have sat by, the while, smiling and happy. JUne 8th.-Do I dream, or is my husband changed? He is not so gay as he was; at least, so it seems to ne. This morning he started ab- ruptly from my side, and left me without the ac- customed kiss. Perhaps I am very foolish, and this is onrly the lover changingo into the husballd. And then, too, lie may have cares I knIlow not of; for yesterday when the tmail cdame in and he read his letters he looked very sad and troubled. Perhaps by and by lie will tell me all his annoy- ances, and I will do -what a wife can to lighten them. July 13th.--Father Guardet left us yesterday. It was very sad parting with the good man,- for I mav never nevei' see him again. But thank God! he will be happy, for he will ever find happiness in doing his duty. May God and all saints bless him! o Juty 16th.--To-:morrow we leave La Darbellire, Louis and I. I shall be glad to go, for Lonis must have grown tired of this dull place; there is nothing to interest him here. When we get to more stirring scenes, to places where he can meet with men of culture like himself, this moody turn that has came over him will-pass away, and we will be happy again.   CHARETTE.       283 Jzuly 20th.-QUEBEC.-We have had such a pleasanlt journey from La Darbelliere here, and I have been so happy, and Louis has been more like his old self again. I knew it was but that dull place that made him sad. From here we propose going to Halifax, and thence to France. We shall visit Paris and La Vende'e. Oh how enthusiastic Louis grows when he talks of La- Vendee: his whole comntenance lights lp with a holy fervor when he tells of the heroism of his compatriots. To think Louis should have left holme so poor and forlorn, and now returnlso rich ald prosperous. AUg. 16.--HALIFA'X.-We have made a long journey, stopping at many places, but it hlas been most enjoyable: the weather has been per- feet, and Louis, though thoughtful, not unhappy. We are to await here letters from Charette: ald when some important ones, which Louis says he expects daily, shall lhave come to hand, we propose taking a Cunard steamer for Liver- pool, and thence to France. "La Belle France, ma patrie!" as Louis seems never tired of re- peating. Aug. 21.- "O my God! What is it I have heard? What is it I suspect? My heart throbs, my head reels, my veins seem on fire. I can scarce see the letters I form. I know not why 1   284       CHABmI'r write them; but there is not a living soul in all this place--no! not in the wide, wide world, that I Cean consult and counsel with; so H will try and calm myself by writing here what I fear, what I dread. This morning, while we were at breakfast, which as usual, we were taking in our own room, tlhe mnail was brought in. I had a letter froin La Darbelliere. It was from mly dealr dear mother. I was long in reading it, and did not observe Louis. When I did look up, lny God! what a look of agony was oil his face! His eyes seemled starting from their sockets; and yet they were full of sorrow and pityv as he bent them full up- on me. With a scream I rushed to him, but he pushed me aside, and without a word left the room. In doing so he dropped a letter. I1l- spired by a burning curiosity to kno'w what had caused Louis his trouble, I picked it up and read it. It was from Louis, his second son. That I may make no mistake, I will copy here the para- graph that thus annoys me. He writes: "I re- turned yesterday from Montgoimery. I have seen my dear mamma; she is much better, and the doctor spoke very hopefully. O, papa! if it could only be that she could get well again, and you come back to us, and we all be together again, happy as we used to be.?'   CHARETTE.       285 Wliat does this mean? Am I no wife? Has Louis deceived me? Who is this mamma? Is it Marie, who Lonis told me was dead . O my Lord,! if this should be so, what is to become of me?  I cannot stay with Louis; I cannot go back to La Darbellier1e, to be talked and gossiped about by all the neighbors. O Holy Virgin! thou sinless one, look in pity upon thy child! Direct, counsel, guide her! Sept. 21.-A month to-day since last I wrote in this book; a long, sad, weary weary month. Let me write here what I have passed through. I had scarce'finished penning the last para- graph as written above, when I heard Louis' steps in the hall below. I hastened down to him, deterlnined to know the truthf. I carried the letter I had picked up, in my hand. "Tell me, tell me, Louis," I said ; " what is this? Is Marie, your wife, still living2 ' He did not answer; he turned from me, and buried his face in the thick folds of the window-curtains; his form shook violently. It was enough--he could not deny it. I left him: I hastened to my room. I stripped off everything he had ever given me, save my wedding-ring. I dressed myself in a gown I had worn before I knew him; I made a little bundle of a few necessaries, and with them placed this journal.   286       CHARETTE. The shades of evening were ,gathering as I slipped unperceived froln the house. I did not know where I was goillg; I did nlot care: my only thoughts were to get away before he should seek, with specious-arguments, to induce me to remain with him. All nighlt I travelled by the light of the stars. I passed the bounds of the city. I was out on the sanlds, following the waters of the bay. Again and agaill I tripped and fell ; but still I kept ol, until, tired, footsore, drip- ping with ooze, I fell senseless upon, the sands. When I awoke to consciousness, I felt myself rocking gently to and fro; I heard the creaking of cordage and the rippling of waters. Looking about me, I found myself in the little cabin of what proved to be a fisherman's boat. It belonged to Captain Derrick, of Prawn, a small fishing village on the coast of Nova Scotia. Cap- tain Derrick had been to Halifax for some sup- plies and had stopped near where I had fallen, for fresh water. There they found me in the early morning, and touched by my appearance, carried me to their'boat. These rough men were overjoyed   when I awoke to consciousness, and offered to take me, back to Halifax. But I implored them to take me anywhere rather than there, and  so they- brought me here. Captain Derrick took me to Jr   CHARETTE.       287 hs little cabin and placed me in charge of his wife. These people are very rough, their manners uncouth, but their hearts are pure gold. Here I was seized with a brain fever, and for days my life was despaired of; but now I amn conlvales- -cellt. I walked out a little yesterday. To-day I aln strong enlough to write this. I have no plans for the future. I wish I could stay here. Here no one will ever know mlly story Hlere Mr. St. Aiudre never can find ime. Why am I afraid he should find me? Do I distrust myself? Is my love so strong that I would forgive himl the wrong he has done me? I fear-I fear! Sept 26.--Joy! Joy! Louis has come back to me. I have forgiven him all. How could I help it? he looked so sad, he was so penitent. He told ine his story: how poor Marie lias not been herself for miany long years, and how he was carried away by his love, to so deceive me; and I have forgiven himn! And now Marie is truly dead! He has letters and a certificate from'Dr. Ward; there can be no doubt about it, and to-mnorrow we are to be married   again. There is a mission here under the charge of Father Jerome, and he will marry us. I am more thoughtful, but I believe I amr as happy as on my first bridal morn.   '   288       CHARETTE. Sept. 27.-It is over! -the wedding. The Rev. Father came to the cottage, as I did not feel well enough to go to the little chapel. He knows our story, and compassionates us. No one was present but Captain Derrick and his family. Tile ceremony seemed very soleln., I had taken off my wedding ring, and laid it away; but' I brought it forth to-day, and again it was placed upon mny finger, never, never to be removed. I am Louis St. Andre's wife in very truth! As sopn as I am sufficiently recovered, -we sail for Europe. . . . . Here ended the reading of the passages marked by Carew. A profound sensation followed; the audience uttered one vast sigh, as if a terrible burden had been lifted from it. Many eyes were wet, and the judge took that moment to wipe his spectacles.   ;      l The judge asked Mr. Carew to allow him to see the manuscript journal; he turned it over comnparilg dates with some memoranda that lay on the table before him. "I should like to see the marriage certificate given by Father Guardet," he said; "hgve you it, Mr. Carew?           - "No, it has never been in our possession ." "Mr. Swagg, you must have it. Please let me see it!"   CHAuRTE.       289 Swagg was in earnest conversation with hi; partner Leach; he took up a bundle of papers and passed them to St. Andre. "You will find it there, St. Andr6, please pick it out and hand it to the judge," and he went on with his conver- sation. St. Andre turned over the papers, and found one endorsed, "Marriage certificate of Louis and Jacqueline St. Andre; " drew it forth, and passed it up. The judge took it, and read; and those who were watching him saw a look of amaze- ment and satisfaction upon his face. "This, Mr. Swagg," he said, "' is not what I asked for. I asked for the certificate of the marriage solemnized at La Darbelliere by the Rev. Pierre Guardet." Swagg started with an air of alarm, reached forth and seized the package of papers he had passed to St. Andre, and turned themn over with a nervous hand. Finally he drew out another paper, and hastened with it to the judge. As he , presented it, he endeavored: to take from the judge's hand, the one he already held. The judge declined giving it up, but proceeded to compare the two documents; then he rose slowly to his feet, and said solemnly: "God has interposed to confound the guilty, and uphold - the innocent! He has placed in my 13    290       CHARETTE. hands-rece/ved from the defendat in this suit --two certificates of marriage between Louis St. Andr(d of Charette and Jacqueline Coyer of La Darbelliere; one solemnized by Father Guardet, the other by Father Jerome; the latter dated fully one month after the death -of Marie St. Andre, as proved by the certificate of Dr. Ward, also presented by the defence. There was joy in the court. The audience ex- pressed its feelings by a clapping of hands, which the judge did not attempt to silence; 'Father Guardet pressed Jacqueline in his arms, over- joyed that at last his efforts had been crowned with success, while Dymocke shook Carew warmly by the hand. While this was going on on one side of the room, a different scene was being enacted on the other. St. Andre had seized Swagg roughtly by the shoulder as he sat trembling, with great drops of sweat pouring from his forehead, and was whispering with white lips: "You told me you had destroyed that paper." "I, I thought I had," returned Swagg, almost inaudibly; but he was lying, and St. Andre knew it. He had kept it for the purpose of ex- torting money from St. Andre after the suit should be ended. Swagg was so confounded and overcome by   CHEETTEn.       291 the discovery of the certificate, that he was unable to collect himself sufficiently to say anything on behalf of his client; so to Leach was left the difficult task of explaining away 7 the damaging evidence that had been pro- duced. He was forced to abandon the ground-of ille- gitimacy, and rest his case solely upon the wishes of the testator as expressed in the will. But the judge was too clear-headed to be confused on this point; and he declared that the will, assert- ing, as it did, an untruth, when it pronounced Henri to be'the only lawful living issue of Louis St. Andre, showed that either the testator was of unsound mind, or that he did not know-what he was signing; and that taking all the circum- stances into consideration, the weak condition of the testator, the influence his son Henri had obtained over him, the manifest injustice of the will, the fact that all tiis time the defendant was aware that the plaintiff was lawful issue born in wedlock; he felt himself fully justified in declaring and pronouncing, as he did declare and pronounce, the will of Louis St. Andre as- probated in his court, to,be null, void, and of no effect. And he recommended the plaintiff, if the defendant refused to do her full justice, to com- mence proceedings against him at once for one   292         OHA  ITE. half of her father's estates, with -one half of all rents, emoluments, incomes, of, what kind soever, derived from the same since that father's death. r" s             w   4^   CHAPTER XII. FTER leaving the court-room, St. Andre had a violent altercation with his coun- sel Swagg and Leach. High words, and words far from complimentary passed between them. As the defeated trickster wended his way up Broadway, he encountered some of his sporting acquaintances who cut him decidedly; they had seen Archie Talbot. He stopped at his club and ordered dinner. Through the window near which he sat, he could hear the newsboys crying the- evening papers, with full accounts of the great St. Andre law suit. Gradually the room filled: men gathered in groups, or seated themselves at the little dining-tables. St. Andre could not hear the words of the suppressed talking that was going on around him, but he knew from the furtive glances in his direction, that he was the subject of it. He sat alone, all his acquaintances seeming to shun him; after awhile Major Seabright entered. For years Seabright had been his tool, his   294.       O  m czbL.  shadow:; now he called to him,: but Seabright pretending not to hear, passed into another room. He ordered more brandy, and swallowed a huge draught; he asked for delicacy after delica(cy, and-pushed all away untasted; he lighted a cigar and strolled into the billiard roonm; he was a famous billiardist, and whenever he played, a crowd of interested spectators always gathered around. Now  he approached all unoccupied table, and picking up a cue, began making some of those " shots" that had ever elicited admirling plaudits. He feared to ask any one to play with hiln lest they should refuse; but he kept on practising with his cue, certain that a crowd of spectators would soon gather round his table. Never could he' remember having performed such feats before; he would strike the balls with a seemingly reckless hand, and scatter them in every opposite direction; then they would roll towards elich other, and stop all in a bunch as if they were magnetically attracting each other. If by chance some straggler lodged inl a distant corner, his own ball, shot 'apparently at an en- tirely different angle, would& :'seek it oUt and bring it into line again. Thus he kept on, making coAnt upon count, carom after carom, until he was surprised at his own skill. All this while he kept his eyes upon the table; but by   CHARETTE.       295 and by he looked up, expecting to see a group of attentive witnesses of, his play--the room was deserted. He threw down his cue in disgust; at last he knew that he was avoided; at last even Ais blunted sensibilities began to feel'the slight. He ground his teeth with rage. So this was the result of all his scheming! - All his villainous plotting and machinations had this ending! His despised and hated sister would have half the estates; he would be obliged to return her half of those revenues he had already squan- dered in dissipation; lie would be forced to abandon the metropolitan life in which he de- lighted, driven from it by the power of public opinion. He felt himself an outcast-a pariah! He left the club house and went out into the street; the lamps shone dimly through a murky atmosphere, a cold, drizzling rain was beginning to fall. He buttoned his coat close to his chin, and wandered moodily up and down. He was schemning to keep his sister as long as possible out of her inheritance; to-morrow, early, he would make a will, lest perchance, he dying intestate, she should have even his portion; he would giveo his- fortune to anyone-to anything, rather than it should go to one he so hated. Thus he wandered about thinking and plotting for hours. The clock sounded one as he ascended the steps of the build-   296       CHAE'WrE. ing where lhe had rooms. He was very cold, his clothing dripping wet. He entered his room; within things looked better, the gas burned brightly, a cheerful fire of cannel coal shone- in the grate, and Sarah, the beautiful quadroon from Charette, received him with open arms and a smile of welcome. But even all this could not entirely drive the moody devil fromn his soul, or the ac- cumulated annoyances of the day from his mind. Sarah insisted upon removing his wet coat and bringing his dressing-gown and slippers; she poured out for him a glass of wine, and gradually soothed him into a better mood. He told her the events of the day, and the re- sult of the suit, and was very bitter in his ex- pressions against Jacqueline. But Sarah, by her blandishments and caresses, gradually lured him on to look on the brighter side of the picture, un- til he acknowledged that he \as still the possessor of vast estates. "You and I, Sarah," he said, "will go to other, lands and enjoy ourselves; to-morrow I will make my will, and leave all I have to you; so when I die, you will be joint heir with Jacqueline. I will make it conditional, too, that you take the name of St. Andr6. Ha! that will gall the jade with her pretences of sanctity and virtue. Don't spare her, Sarah; flaunt yourself before her on   COHARETTE,      297 all occasions. Don't part with your portion of Charette, but plant yourself there. Oh, I see her now, the vixen! how she will rage and tear! and that hound Dymocke, too, curse him! While I live 1 will find means to trouble them; when I die, I leave the carrying out of my revenge a legacy to you; and I know you will do it, and do it well, too." And the brute uttered a triumphant laugh, as he thotight he could thus plant a thorn that would fester and annoy even when he had passed away. His laughing was checked by a low rap at the door. Sarah fled into an inner apartment, and St. Andre demanded gruffly who was there. No reply was vouchsafed, but the door was pushed gently open, and a head thrust in. St. Andre started as he recogniized Josiah Miles. The giant gradually worked his whole body in- to the room, closed the door behind him, shot the bolt of the lock and put the key in his pocket. He slowly approached St. Andre who sat as one paralyzed anxiously watching the actions of his overseer. Gradually, however, he forced himself to assume a confidence he did not feel, and, rising, he extended his hand, exclaiming: A How are you, Miles? I had no thought of see- ing you here." Miles thrust aside the proffered hand and reiOed: ^3   298-       CHARNTTL  "I know you hadn't, and you don't like the sight of me, now you do see me; you'd as lief the devil entered your room as me, St. Andr6e." "You are mistaken, Miles. Why, you are an old friend and are most- welcome.' Sit down and let me pour you a glass of wine, or shall it be brandy?" "Neither. You and me, St. Andre, have drunk our last drink' together. Set down yourself; I have something to say to you," and he laid his powerful hand upon St. Andre's shoulder, and forced him back into the easy chair from which he had risen. "I've bin a faithful servant of yourn, St. Andre," continued Miles, standing in front of him. I've bin a faithful servant of yourn. 'I've done lots of your dirty work. I've had it in my power to cheat you, to rob you, to ruin you, any time these last three years. I've knowed how you cheated your friends at cards and on the turf. I've knowed all about how you obtained that will by which you cheated a poor girl out of her in- heritance, I say, I could have ruined you any day these last three year; but I -spared you I Spared you? Why, it was but the other day I saved your life! I had it in my heart then to let you die like the dog you are; would to God I had! but I thought of the days when we were boys together,.    CHARETTE.       299 and I relented, and while all your friends, Sea- bright, King, and all the rest, stood idly by watch- ing your dying struggles, I alone plunged into the torrent and bore you safe to land. You escaped unharmed, but Iwas laid up for weeks from in- juries received froma passing piece of timber. But little you cared. I might have died; it would have been all the same to you. You never came near me; and when I got about again, I found you had robbed me,-robbed me of the only being I had ever loved! Oh, St. Andre! -It was a cruel deed, taking from me this girl! You knew how lonely had been mly past life, ;how I was driven from reputable society, because my father. was a nigger trader, how ,Ihad not a solitary be- ing in all the world to love but this girl'; and yet you robbed Ame of -her, robbed me when I could not protect her; when I was confined to my bed by injuries received in saving your worthless car- "I did not know, Miles-I did not think-I had no idea," stammered St. Andre, " that you thought so much of the girl. I wouldn't have taken her away if I had; you know that, Miles. And now you can have her back again; I will give her up to you, and with her a pile of money to repay you for any trouble I may have caused you. That's fair, Miles- now isn't it?"'   300       CHAiETTE. "Do you insult as well as injure me, St. Andre 2 Do you think I shall take up with what you have cast aside a I will teach you differently, Henri St. Andre. I have travelled all the way from Louisiana; I have dogged your steps all day to have satisfaction, and I propose to have it to- night; so take your choice of these; and God have mercy upon one of us, for before the sun rises -yes, before the first cock crows one of our souls will be tormented in hell." So saying, Miles presented a pair of murderous looking bowie knives. St. Andre took one in his trembling hand, but it fell from his nerveless grasp. Helpless he sank upon his knees, and begged wildly for his life. Miles clapped his left hand over his mouth to prevent his cries awak- ing the slumbering inmates of the house, while with his right he raised the knife to strike. Sarah, who, shrouded in the darkness of the inner room, had watched the scene, now with pallid cheeks and whiter lips rushed between the two, seized'the descending arm and turned aside the blow. The sight of Sarah, clothed in gorgeous raiment, bedecked with jewels, the gift of St. Andre, and now struggling in his behalf, inflamed Miles to madness. In his blind rage he struck about recklessly. With one hand he seized Sarah, and flung her to the floor; with   the other he, drove the knife into: St. Andre's heart to the hilt! - The wretched man, uttering no sound, fell heav- ily to the floor, and his soul went-whither? Miles turned towards Sarah; she was lifting herself up, her hair had escaped from the comb, and hung in luxuriant masses about her bare shoulders. Miles raised her,--gazed long and silently-upon her face, beautiful even in its pallor; pressed one kiss, upon her lips, once so fondly loved; then flung her from him as if she were some worthless thing, and fled out inth'the night, just as lights began to gleam in the upper halls.   CHA PTER XIII. HTTRRE was commotion in Wall street; it was a feld day with the bankers and -brokers; there were hurryings to, and fro; there were wild shoutings and gesticulations; there were pallid cheeks and flushed brows; men's hearts were failing them from fear; and fortunes, which had taken years to gather, were vanishing like " some baseless fabric of a vision, leaving no rack behind." Panic reigned para- mount; the Stock Exchange was one vast paln- demonium. The great International Never-Failing Safety Deposit and Trust Company had closed its doors; wild rumors of fraud, peculation and dishonesty floated in the air. The cashier of the Rotary Life and Indemnity Insurance Company had fled with all its assets; the 999th National Bank was in trouble, and had refused to certify the checks of Mushroom   & Fungus, the great American bankers. The paper of the Labrador and Si- berian Intercolonial Railway had gone to protest;   CH-- aETrs.      303 stocks were coming down with a run. Who, was safe?I Who was good I Who could meet such a storm  Amid all this turmoil and confusion Anthony Rich stood at his office door smiling; he had scented the danger from afar, and had prepared for the coming tempest. He had sold out his stocks Nieeks ago, and the proceeds thereof lay in fair Government Bonds or smiling greenbacks in the strong vaults of the Pharmaceutical Bank. More than this, he was largely short on "Central," "Lake Shore," "North West," "Western Union." And as the brokers rushed wildly past, shouting the latest prices, or as his clerk read out the quota- tions as recorded on the. tape in his inner office, he chuckled exultantly, for every drop in prices added to his gains; and when at last the clock of old Trinity sounded three, and the struggle for the day was over, and men retired with sullen looks to the privacy of their offices that they might count up their losses in secret, or hasten with hurried steps to stages and cars to seek in the tender sympathy of the family circle solace for the day's disasters, Rich buttoned tight his coat about his withered form, seized his gold- headed cane, and with a triumphant air turned his steps northward. While the general public were busy estimat-   304       CHABETTIE ing the losses of the street, it amused itself also in reckoning ,the gains of Anthony Rich, and con- jecture outdid conjecture as to the amount he had realized. Occupants of the -passing stages pointed him out to each other as the fortunate speculator; old acquaintances button-holed him on the street to offer their congratulations. ie entered his club-house and ordered dinner as was his custom, and treated himself to a more generous bottle of claret than was usual. "Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry!" His gossip, Jeremiah Sharpe, took a seat beside him, and Rich called for another bottle of wine; and the two withered, wasted, wrinkled old men bobbed their bald heads towards each other and chuckled. "Ah, Tony, Tony I ' said Sharpe, " what a head you have got on your shouders! You will be the richest man in the city if you keep on this way. How much did you clear to-day-honest now?"  "Only a little, Jerry-only a little; you know I' am a careful man and don't play for large pro- fits. You must have done pretty well too, Jerry!" "Me? why, I never make any money; I am just trying to live on my little income; bUut it is lard work to do it, Tony, hard work to make both  o L   CEBAETTE.       305: ends meet; the expenses of living since the war have been terrible." "Yes, but when money is worth one or two per cent. a day, I notice you are always round with a pretty good pocket full, Jerry." "Yes, but the losses, Tony, the losses! think how the securities have gone down to-day. How can I ever protect myself, Tony?" "I guess Jerry Sharpe knows how to do that without any of my advice. How many poor devils now did you sell out to-day and take their stocks to account, eh?5" "He, he, he I' chuckled Sharpe, "if the boys can't make their margins good, we must protect ourselves, Tony, we must protect ourselves." "We must, Jerry, we must; it is a duty we owe to the street. And we do so too, don't we, Jerry?" and Rich poked his withered old crony in the sides, and they chuckled, again, and filled their glasses, and bobbed their old heads, and smiled dismal smiles. "Come, Tony," continued Sharpe,q guess now what I was thinking about to-day? But you never could guess. It was such a queer idea! I was pass- ing along the street and I saw you standing in your- counting-room. You were surrounded by a group of excited bankers and brokers and operators: and there you stood calm as a rock amid the   306       CHARETTE. breakers; and as I stood looking at you and say- ing to myself " what a man it is!" suddenly thoughts of little Amy Stuart came-stealing over me. Wasn't that strange now: little Amy Stuart! You remember little Amy Stuart? of course you do. We were but striplings then-in the old vil- lage on the Connecticut. We were foolish boys, and we both fell in love with little Amy. She never favored' me; and when one day I spoke to her of marriage, she said "nay." But she was in love with you, Tony, and now I remember you were engaged to mairy her; but you came to New York and married rich old Sturtevant the banker's daughter instead; and little Amy died, and they buried her in the old church- yard. Wasn't it strange, now, that I should think of little Amy just then a." "Yes, and very foolish," replied Rich as he passed his handkerchief rapidly 4over his face, "'very foolish: what have you,- a battered old bachelor, or me, a ,forlorn old widower, to do with little girls 8 or old ones either, for that matter?"  But although Rich tried thus to thrust aside the vision his friend's words had called up, it would not away. Little Amy Stuart! He- filled his glass, and sipped the ruby wine, and called for the Even-   CHARETTE.       307 ing Journal, and looked over the latest rumors from the street, and talked stocks with Sharpe and endeavored to forecast the future of the market. Still the vision of little Amy Stuart haunted him. Why came she back to-night to disturb him thus in the hour of his success? It was years and years ago that he had known her. It was in his native village-that little hamlet that lies like a jewel in a setting of green hills on the banks of the smiling Connecticut. She was his boyish flame; nay, she was the object of the only pure love he had ever known. They had plighted their troth under the boughs of the golden sweet apple-tree. How it all came back to him now after these long years.' It was in the Spring time, and he could see now the wealth of blossoms that covered branch and spray, even as they were covered then; and he could hear the drowsy hum  of bees gathering honey in' the bright sunshine, as he remembered hearing it that day, while little Amy prattled of her hopes and fears. How sweet to him then was her innocent love! but he left her to seek his fortune in the great city. Then he forgot little Amy, for he met Elizabeth, daughter of the rich banker, and married her; for to marry the daughter of the banker would give him a great lift in the world.,   308-       OHARBBTT.       - And little Amy sickened and died, and they buried her in the pretty church-yard beneath the boughs of a mighty elm. And there she has lain in the mold so many, many years, by the world forgotten; and yet she comes to disturb and annoy him now. And then he falls to wondering and conjectur- ing, if he had .married Amy instead of the banker's daughter, if he would have been a different man. Probably he would not have been so rich, but might he not have been more happy? And then' his children: might, he not have had some boys to inherit his name . Would his daughter have been like Lizzie? poor Lizzie! he had seen but little of her of late: he had been so engrossed with his affairs, and she with her pleasures, that they rarely met: and when they did, he would talk constantly of Archie, and would slander him and speak ill of him, and would upbraid and reproach her for marrying such a man; so Lizzie's heart was made very sore, and she was forced to seek forgetfulness and consolation in the giddy round of pleasure. And so she kept travelling onward and onward the broad path which leads downward. And somehow it seemed to Rich now as if little Amy came to reproach him for his conduct   CHARElTT.       309 towards Lizzie, and his aroused conscience stung him, and he got up and said: "I muist leave you, Jerry, and go home and look after my daughter Lizzie." "And not a motnent too soon, if all I hear be' true!" replied Sharpe. Rich sank back in his chair. "What have you heard about Lizzie  Tell me, Jerry, what you have heard?" "Nay,'Tony, I only said I had heard it, and we can't believe all we hear, you know, Tony." "I don't ask you to tell me what you believe, but what you have heard." "Well, I hear the youngsters talking-I am not a society man, as you know, Tony, so I don't know anything about it -myself; but I hear the youngsters talking; and they do say that your daughter Lizzie is a little 'fast ': that since Archie Talbot deserted her, she has been flirting around worse than any young widow." "He desert her indeed-! I kicked him out of my house, the scoundrel!" "Well, I don't know how that" may be; I met Vance this morning--you know' Vance-Vance & Smith, the Front st. grocers;--their paper rates gilt-edged.-Well, Vance was in great trouble about his son Tom; said he was afraid he was going to the bad, all because he was in   310       . COHRETTA . the toils of Archie Talbot's grass widow, who was hurrying him on to ruin." Rich waited to hear no more. Lizzie-his child --the heir to all his wealth thus talked about; her name bandied from mouth to mouth. This must be stopped; he would give up business-he had money enough; he would take her to Europe; he would watch over and guard her henceforth hinmself. He rose up and hastened into the street; a great dread was upon him-a fear of coming evil. He hailed a stage and soon reached his home, and ascended the broad brown-stone steps thatled to his hall-door. He inserted his latch- key and entered; how silent it seemed! He stood and listened, no sound of voice or footstep met his ear. Often and often had it been the same, but he had never noticed it before. It seemed like the tomb-this profound silence. lie entered the spacious drawing-room. Upon its walls hung rare paintings; all-around were strewn rich specimens of the upholsterer's art, but how dead it seemed! No sound, no sign of life. He wandered through library and boudoir; he ascended to his bedchamber; he knocked at Lizzie's door. No answer. What was this chilling fear that possessed him?. It was seldom that he found Lizzie at home; she *     "   .   OHAERTTm.       3" had rone out as was her wont, to some matinde, or0as riding late in the P-ark, or was visiting salne friend; she would be home soon; his was a foolish alarm, and he tried to laugh at his idle :fears, but the sound he uttered was but the ghost of a laugh: He knocked again; perhaps she was lying down and had fallen asleep. He listened with all his senses; in the stillness he could hear the beating of his heart, he could feel his limbs tremble, and he knew great drops -of sweat were gathering on his wrinkled brow. Still no answer; still the silence of the tomb.    -. He pushes open the door and enters; it is Liz- zie's bedchamber and untenanted. Rich gazes hurriedly around: he sees but a picture of a Madonna clasping tightly her child, and bending on him a pair of reproachful eyes, and somehow they look to him like the eyes of little Amy Stuart. He hears no sound save the twittering of a pair of Java sparrows in a cage near the win- dow. It is the bedchamber of a beautiful woman, but it feels cold and dreary. Rich shudders; by-and-by he catches a glimpse of his face in the toilette mirror; he hardly recognizes himself-he is so changed; he approaches to survey himself mnore closely, when something on' the bureau attracts his attention. - It is a note. With trem-   812        OHAREArE. bling hand he adjusts his spectacles; the note is addressed to him. Why does he not open it and read? lHe lays it down instead and lets his eyes wander round the room. Still the eyes of the Madonna are on him; still the twittering of the sparrows goes on. Again he takes up the note; it is twilight now, and his eyes are old, he -cannot. see well, so he strikes a match and lights the gas. Again he seizes- the note and turns it over and over in his hands, and at last breaks the seal and reads. It falls from his hands; he sinks back into a chair. Desolate! desolate! She has deserted him- his Lizzie-his child-his only one! deserted- fled from him--fled with a stranger--a stripling - a boy! Poor old man! desolate, desolate. Whatto you are your riches now! what the costly luxury that surrounds you  . you would give all, all to have her back, your Lizzie-your child! His head sinks upon his hands, his hands upon his knees; no sound escapes him-his grief is too deep for words. The twitterings of the sparrows, go on, but he hears theIn not, he is alone-alone ---in the midst of wealth and luxury. Desolate, desolate!  That morning Lizzie Talbot, Archie Talbot's wife, had fled with Vance I For months and   OHARETTE.       313 months she had worn a sad heart under a light and frivolous behavior. :By nature sympathetic, she longed for sympathy in return. Of a warmn and loving disposition, she yearned for the confiden- ces of love. This she had not found; her father, engrossed in his avocations, did not furnish it, her husband had not yielded it. She was yearning for sympathy; her heart was crying out for love. If Archie had but realized this, if he had but returned one tithe of her affection, how different might have been their fate! And now they were separated, apparently for- ever; and there was one constantly at her side who worshipped her; who would give her con- fidence for confidence, love for love. Would she not go with him'? He had but little of worldly wealth to offer; but it was enough to take them to some fair land-some warm and sunny clime, away from the cold and heartless atmosphere in which they dwelt. There he would labor for her; there she should know no care or sorrow. Long she struggled-long refused-but day by day her struggles grew  fainter, her refusals less decided. Even then if her father had but lknown, if he had but encouraged, with one word, the confidence she was yearning to pour inlto his ear; if he had but held open his arms, as time after time she was longing to throw herself upon "   314       CHARErITTE. his breast and tell him all! But his thoughts were upon other things. He surrounded her with -luxury, he gave her everything that money could buy, and thought he was a model father--when she would have given it all for one loving word. And so the fatal consent is given--she will fly with Vance-she will give up wealth, position, father, husband, reputation, for ones who will give her that for which her heart pants-affec- tion. And now the carriage is at the door that is to bear her from her father's house; the steam is generating in the mighty ship that is to carry her away from her native land. Her trunk is strapped upon the rack. Vance stands waiting in the hall, but she lingers behind to take a last look at the home she is leaving forever; to write that note that is to bring. sorrow and anguish to Anthony Rich. In it she unburdens her heart, she gives full vent to her pent-up feelings; she does not spare her father, but accuses him of taking from her, her husband, and then refusing her all sympathy, treating her as if she were some chattel his money had bought; but before she finishes more tender feel- ings come over her, and she writes with the fast- falling tears almost blotting the words, "Oh, my father! my father! my poor, poor father! God's   CHARETTE.        3015 eternal blessing rest upon you and may you for- give and bless your errinag child!" And thlen, not daring longer to trust herself, she flies to Vance, and with him enters the car- riage. The swift-footed steeds bear them rapidly towards the dock where lies the ocean steamer which already is tugging at its fastenings, impa- tient to be away to the billow and the storm. Vance sees the traces of tears upon her cheeks; he hears her convulsive sobbings, and he seeks to soothe her with tender and loving words. On fly the steeds, bearing theln nearer and nearer to the steamer, when suddenly they hear wild shouting as of men in danger.  Their carriage stops; Lizzie turns her eyes inll the direction the crowd is gazing ; she sees a frightened horse galloping wildly towards her. She sees men and women flying from before him ; and before she can speak he flies past, dragging at his heels, one foot caught in the stirrup, the form of a man. "My God! it is Archie's -horse Alcibiades," exclaimed Vance. Lizzie shouts to the driver, "Follow, follow! quick, quick!"The driver whips up his horses and obeys. Lizzie's head is thrust far out of the window. In the distance a great crowd is gathering; the carriage reaches its outskirts. "Man and horse are dead!" she' hears some one say :--she opens the door herself,   316        CIaRE'To.  and before Vance is aware of her intention, is on the pavement. She forces her way through the crowd of people; they see her pale and awe-struck face, and open a way for her. She sees Alcibiades breathing his last. Froin his side a stream of purple blood is flowing. In his fright he had struck against a dray loaded with bars of iron, one of which had pierced his side. Some are lifting the man; she turns her eyes upon him. It is Archie! with al cry that strikes a clill to the heart of every hearer, she flies to' him and kneels upon the dusty street, and takes his blood-stained head in her lap. "My husband! my Archie!"The crowd fall back, awed by such great sorrow. "My husband! my Archie!" Her lips are pressed upon his grimy brow, her dress dyed with his blood. My husband! my Archie!" A surgeon passing by recognized her, and stop- ping, inquired the cause of the commotion. He placed his hand upon Archie's heart. "There is still life; we must take him to the hospital," he said tenderly, but firmly. "Call a carriage." Vance, who stood by, went for the one from which he and Lizzie had just alighted. Some men stepped forward and lifted the body. Ah, what a bloody, mangled, formless, wretched mass   CHARETTE.       317 lit was! Could this be Archie Talbot, once so strong and valiant-so full of life? The men placed-him tenderly in the carriage. Lizzie stepped in and supported him in her lov- ing arms. Vance, scarce knowing what he was doing, followed, the doctor ascended' the box, and so they reached the hospital. While the attendants were stripping the patient and the doctor examining his wounds, Vance drew Lizzie aside, and looking with dislnay at her bloody and dust-stained garments, he threw a mantle over them and whispered, "Come my love, let us make haste, we have yet time to catch the steamer. Come, let us away from all this horror; -to-night we shall be rolling upon the mighty ocean, and in a few days we shall reach the land of sunshine and joy, of love and happi- ness." But Lizzie turned upon him a look full of reproach; threw off the mantle he had wrapped about her, and pointed to the room where Archie lay. Vance knew that his dream of bliss was over. For days, Archie's life trembled in the balance. Lizzie knew not where to go, so she begged her friend, the doctor, to arrange it so that she could ' remain at the hospital. This he succeeded in doing, and a room was assigned her, to which her trunk was carried, and so, day and night, night   318        CHARETTl'E. anld day, for weeks Lizzie was the unwearied nulse, the nntiring watcher at her husband's couch. Part of the time he was insensible--the faint breathing alone indicating life--part of the time deliious, and he did not know her. Again and again the little spark of life that still inhab- ited that crushed and mangled form,' seemed about to expire. But under skillful treatment and careful nursing by-and-by it grew stronger, and then stronger, until at last the announcement was made that the patient would live, but that he?rould be a helpless cripple for life. Lizzie hears this opinion with something like joy; his life at least will be spared. Now she will have him all to herself; now -she will makle atonement for the past. Ah, who shall calculate the height and depth, the length and breadth of woman's love! Hlid- den it may be in prosperity and joy, but when suffering and sorrow, pain and poverty comle, it asserts itself with resistless power. When at last-Archie's reason anld consciousness returned, and he saw the loving eyes of his neglect- ed wife turned upon him, filled with tender pity, he realized how shameful had been his conduct, and he stretched forth his poor emaciated hands in a mute appeal for forgiveness. Need it be said how willingly it was grallted?    Cl-ARETl'E.       319 And then came the days ofi convalescence, those peacefull, calm days when the patient's pain is gone and he feels strength returning with every breath, when the air see:ns so full of per- fume, and the palate is so sensitive to the pleasures of taste. It was on one such day that Lizzie sat on a stool at her husband's feet; he was wrapped in a blallnket, for the windows were opened wide to let ill the golden sunlight and the cool westerly breeze. With one hand Archie was toying with her auburn locks, while ithe other was clasped in her two warmn pallns. No words would be ne- cessary to assure a spectator that confidencee was re-established between these two, that Lizzie's heart, yearning for love, was satisfied. The door of the room is pushed gently open, but the occu- pants hear it not. The doctor's head is thrust in and then withdrawn. Thell-an old gray-haired man enters, noiselessly, and the door closes behind him: it is Anthony Rich. Lonog he stands sup- porting himself on his cane, and unwonted tears stream down his- wrinkled cheeks. .. A suppressed sigh reaches Lizzie's ears, and she turns her,head; she springs to her feet and rushes into his armns. "My father, imy father." "( My child-my Lizzie-my child!" Archie tries to turn in his chair, but his poor   320       CHAREETT'. broken body cannot respond to his will. He cannot see, but he hears the mingled sobs and words of father and child. Thle Lizzie leads the old man to Arcllhie; faill would he have fall- en at his feet and bergged forgiveness, so much had sorrow and shame broken the spirit of this stern old man, but Lizzie prevented him, so he took Archie's hand in his and said: "I come to ask pardon for all I have done to you, Archie, and to Lizzie, and to take back all I may have said. When last you left my house, Archie, you said you would never enter it again uninvited. I not only now invite you to come, but I beg you to do so, and you shall be my son, and all I have shall be yours and Lizzie's.5" And thus a reconciliation was effected, and the poor old man, whose form had become sadly bent during the past few weeks, shed tears of joy.--"This, my child, was dead and is alive again ; was lost and is found!" Soon a litter was prepared, and Archie was borne to the mansion of Anthony Rich, and the old man followed leaning upon Lizzie's arlm; and the lately silehe ls rang with the sound of happy voices; and every pleasant day the stately family carriage of Anthony Rich could be seen in the park with Archie Talbot propped up with cushions, Lizzie beside him, as radiant and beau-   -C HAx R:rr.     321 tiful as of yore, and in front, facing them, an old man who seemed never tired of contemnplat- ing the pair. The prediction of the medical men proved mnost true; Archie never recovered the use of his limbs; but by and by the ruddy hue of health returned to his cheeks, and the bright sparkle to his eyes and, aided by cane and crutch, and Lizzie's ever ready arm, he almost ceased to regret his clrippled condition. If we could lift the curtain that shrouds the future we should see that stately falnily carriage gradually filling with childish forms, and should hear the halls and saloons of that vast mansion resound with the echo of childish voices, and we should see too, a happy old man with grand- children many, climbing on his knees. "*   CHAPTER XIV. HE vast interior of St. Patrick's Cathe- dral was brilliant with the light of countless burners. Its mammoth organ pealed forth a joyous wedding inarch. Nave and transept were filled with the beauty and fashion of the city, drawn together to witness the nuptials of Hugh Dymocke, and the wealthy and beautiful Jacqueline St. Andrce. If Dymocke thought her lovely, when he saw her for the first time in that dark cellar in Catharine street, what must he have thought now as she joined' him at the foot of the altar clothed in her bridal garments. These garments were the wedding gift of Miss Merrifield; and Dy-mocke's quick eye recognized at once the riclh trimming of "point antique de Venise," and his heart gave a bound of joy that his -seeming foolish fancy, a fancy that had often drawn upon him the derision of his companions, had brought him such reward! ,   CHARETTE.       323 Supporting Miss St., Andre, was her peer in beauty, Miss Merrifield; and indeed many in that vast multitude awarded her the palm. With Dymocke stood Lieutenant Updyke, scarce able to smooth his merry face sufficiently to suit the solemnity of the occasion. Old Antoine Coyer, his weather-beaten face more than usually r:osy, gave the bride away; and the good Father Guardet, his 'heart so full of- thankfulness that it illuminiled his counte- nance, pronounced the holy rite. Greetings and congratulations followed; but there wds 'no heartier greeting or handshaking ill that vast assembly than that between Lieutenant Updyke and old Antoine Coyer; between an offleer of the U. S. Revenue service, and a whilom smuggler; and they laughed as they re- called to each other's memory how they had stood breast to breast in deadly enmity, in the pale moonlight, and how the interposition of the good priest alone had saved one of their lives; and Coyer accepted an invitation to dine witlh Updyke on the morrow, and drink a merry glass in token of buried animosity.  Bride and groom -bade adieu to thronging friends, passed. down, the aisle, and entering -their carriage drove off alone with their great happiness. Miss Merrifield, excusing herself to     324:       CHARETTE. Lieutenant Updyke, also entered her carriage alone. As if previously instructed, the driver urged his horses to a rapid trot and proceeded to a distant part of the city. He stopped at the little church of St. Wrapping a large mantle about her to conceal her festive garments, she gained the robing room beside the chancel. Here she is welcomed by a group of women dressed in black; they remove her wedding garments and put upon her a robei similar to their own. They take from her fingers her jewelled rings, from her ears their diamond pendants. In removing the flowers from her hair, the golden locks loosened from their fasten- ings, fall in a mass of beauty about her shoulders. An attendant applies the scissors, and these fair tresses fall to the floor. A neat-fitting cap of white is placed on her head, a white cape upon her shoulders. Thus attired, she is led by the attendants into the church. As the procession enters, the worshippers rise, and the organ utters a solelnn peal, and from chancel and nave, from priest and laymen ascends a song of praise.            t Then, with few and simple rites, the venera- ble Protestant Episcopal bishop- of the diocese of New York receives her into the sisterhood of All Saints, and she makes a solemn vow hence-   CHARETTE.       325 forth to devote herself and all her powers, to holy and pious deeds of charity. Does the reader think she is -entering upon a dark and dreary life, a sad and hopeless future? Would he could see her on her rounds of saintly charity, bearing needed nourishment to some poor stricken body, bearing more needed nourishment to some poor stricken sozd; binding up some -broken limbs, solacing some broken hearts, re- claiming some erring daughter, nursing some failing mother. Could he see her in her little school, with the eyes of a score of pale and famine-pinched chil- dren fixed upon her with looks of love; could he hear the blessings heaped upon her by the poor as she walks the streets, he would feel that, among the happiest women in New York this day, is Sister Helena, the once beautiful leader of fashion, Kate Merrifield. Cecil Carew became early distinguished in his profession, and was everywhere looked upon as a rising man; but, as there are some incidents in his career which may hereafter be given to the public, we will not anticipate them here. As to Vance, his life was blasted; one unfortu- nate attachment proved his ruin. For a time he lingered in New York, hoping Mrs. Talbot would recall him; but sooni he found that could never   326       CHARETTE. be. Then Dylnocke sent hint to superintend the Chlarette estates, while he and his wife made a short tlip to Europe; but the dreamy attnosphere of the South only seemed to nourish his passion. Discovering this on his return, Dy- moocke induced him to go to Canada with Antoine Coyer. The old mansion of Philip St. Andre at La Dalrbelliere was repaired,-and the mills rebuilt, and again the deserted valley awoke into life. This cold and rugged climate inspired new energy; and here, wrestling with nature, and subduing forests, Vance found his vocationl. Rarelv a summer passes that Mr. and lMrs. Dymocke do not spend some portion of it at the oldManor House; and Hughl and Vance hlave some rare sport with rod and reel, as well as with gun and- dogs.  Occasionally Mrs. Dymocke challenges Jean Coyer to a trial of skill in throwing the fly, even as she used to do when playing the boy amid the Thousand Islands. Although they thus pass some portion of each - summer, their home is at Charette ; which, under their fostering care, guided by refined taste, has resumed more than its olden beauty. There old Uncle Pete, in his capacity of head butler, rules the servants of the house, while Aunty Sue issues   OHARETTE.       327 her orders in the kitchen as imperiously as an eastern sovereign. Mrs. Dymocke has become the toast of all tile young men for miles around; but when the old planters hear the youngsters boasting of her wit and beauty, they smile contemptuously, and de- clare that in no respect can she compare with her mother, the late Mrs. Louis St. Andre. FINIS. 3%. '.L6p   NEW BOOKS   AND NEW EDITIONS, RBCBNTLY iSSUED BY   G. W. CARLETON & CO., Publishers, Madison Square, New York.   Tho Publishers, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send any book on this Catalogue by mail, postae free, to any part of the United States. kI books in this list [unless otherwise specifiedl are handsomely bound in cloth board binding, with gilt backs, suitable for libraries. Mary J. Holmes' Works.   tempest and S nshine ..... .... , . 50 English Orphans ...  ... I  ......  50 HomesteaC on the Hillside....... 50 "ena Rivers.......... s...o. . 50 Meadow Brook..... ...  ........ , .50 Dora Deane........ 5......... Cousin Maude ................. ... 50 Marian Gray ....aa..................t C   Darkness and Daylight .......... ,r 50 Hugh Worthington .........    ..  o Cameron Pride .................   s50 Rose Mather......................  5 So Ethelyn's Mistake ................ I  50 Millbank .............  ......... 50o Edna Browning ......... ........  x 50o West Lawn .........(new) ...... x 5o   I Marion Harland's Works.   Alone   .......................$ so50 Hidden Path..           50........ o Moss Side ...... ..;........ .  5 so Nemesis ........................... 50 Miriam .......................... . o50 At Last.  ....................., 50 Helen Gardner .................... x 50 True as Steel ....... (. ..n ..... x 50   Sunnybank................ ....1 s50 Husbands and Homes ..... ....  50 Ruby's Husband .................. 50 Phcmie's Temptation ........... 50 The Empty Heart. ............... 50 Jessamine ............go............. From My Youth Up ....(new)... ., o50   Charles Dickens-15 Vols.-"Carleton's Edition."   Pickwick, and Catalogue... ....$x 50 Dombey and Son ...... .......... 50 Bleak House ................... 50o Martin Chuzzlewit ............... I 50 Barnaby Rudge--Edwin Drood.. x 50o Child's England-Miscellaneous. I so   David Copperfield ................ 50 Nicholas Nickleby ................ 50o Little Dorrit .............     X 50 Our Mutual Friend...........   x  Curiosity Shop-Miscellaneous.. X 50 Sketches by Bo--Hard Times.... *   so   oulver -Twist-and-The Uncommercial Traveller. ............. ............ 50 Great Expec*atibns-and-Pictures of Italy and America.............. ...  -50 Christmas Books-and--A Tale of Two Cities     ........................... 50 Sets of Dickens' Complete Works, in 15- vol.--[elegant half calf bindings].. 6o o0 Augusta J. Evans' Novels.   Beulah ............................-.x 7 Macaria........................... x 75 Ine .................... ........... X 75 1 75 1   I St. Elmo .... ...... ..*. .... .  $2 oo Vashti ....................... ......  oo2  Infelice..... (new).     .... ... 2  oo   Miriam   Coles Harris.   Rutledge  ..... ..................... $I 50 Frank Warrington     ................ 50 Louie's Last Term, etc. ....... I 5o Richard Vandermarck.     .......... 50   The Sutherlands ..................    so St. Philip's... ........... ........ 5 Round Hearts, for Children..... X So A Perfect Adonis.-(New)....    .. X 5o   Mayg Agnes Fleming's Novels.   Guy Earlscourt's Wife.    ........ $  75 A Terrible Secret...........   ... I 75 Norine's Revenge. (In press) .... x 75   A Wonderful Woman .............   -75 iA Mad Marriage .......(new).....   75   Julie P. Smith's 'Nnoals.   Widow Goldsmith's Daughter..$t 75 Chris and Otho .................. I 75 Ten Old Maids ......(new'"........ I 75   The Widower.... ...... ..... .   75 The Married Belle......... .... . x 75 Courtingl and Farminr. (Inpress). r -r   Captain Mayne Reid-Illustrated.   Tlbe Scalp Hunters .............   50 The Rifle Rangers. ..............   50 The War Trail ......    ...   i 5o The Wood Rangers. ..... .....     50 The Wild Huntress .............x 50   The White Chief ................ $   50 The Tiger Hunter..      .............. 50 The Hunter's Feast .............. I 50 Wild Life .................. ......    50 Osceola, the Seminole ....'........ x so   A. S. Roe's Select Stories.   True to the Las  ....... .........$ 50 The Stai and the Cloud.......... . 50 How Could He help It? .........  i To   A Long Look Ahead........ ......  o I've Been Thinking ............... 50 To Love and to be Loved .......  50   Charles   Dickens. Child's History of England.--Carletofr s New "Sccwol Editiot." Illustrated..  25 Hand-Books of Society. Habits of Good Society.--l'he nice points of taste and good mannrs ........... $ 50 Art of Conversation.--For those who wish to be agreeable talkers or listeners i....  50 Arts of Writing, Reading, and Speaking.-For self-improvement .......... r    50 New  Diamond Edition.-Small size, elegantly bound, 3 volumes in a box ..... 3 oo Mrs. Hill's Cook Book. Mrs. A. P.. Hill's New Cookery BookL and family domestic receipts .........$. oo Famous Books-"Carleton's Edition." Robinson, Crusoe.-An elegant new 12mo edition, with characteristic illustrations by ERNEST GRISET     ...................................        50 Swiss Family Robinson.-An elegant new i2mo edition, with characteristic' illus- trations by  M ARCKL ............... .... ............................... o The Arabian Nights.-An elegant new 12mo edition, with characteristic illitstra- tions  by  DEMORAINE .................................................  . ,  Don Quixote.--An elegant new 12mo edition, with characteristic illustrations by GUSTAVE   DORE. ... ... ........... .....    ............. ....... ........... .. .. Victor Hugo. Les Miserables.-An English translation from the original French. Octavo ......$250 Les Miserables.-In the Spanish Language. Two volumes, cloth bound ......... S oo Popular Italian Novels. Doctor Antonio.-A love storyof Italy. By Ruffini ............ ..  ..... .....$1 75 Beatrice Cenci.--By Guerrazzi. With a steel engraving from Guido's Picture.   75 Manfred.-By the Author of "Beatrice Cenci." Translated by Luigi Monti...... X 75 M. Michelet's Remarkable Works. Love (L'amour).--English translation from the original French ............... x so Woman (La Femme)         .....Do ......Do ...... Do .............. ........ Popular Novels, from       the French.   She Loved Him Madly.--Borys..$x 75 A Fatal Passion.--By Bernard.... I 75 Led Astray.-Octave Feuillet.. . T 75   So Fair Yet False.--BvChavette .-$ 75 Through Thick and Thin.-Memy. x 75   Johnny. Ludlow. A clever and amusing collection of capital New English Stories........$i n          I -   d Artomus Ward's Comic Works. A New Stereotype Edition.-Embracing the whole of his writings, with a Bio- graphy of the author, and profusely illustrated ............. ............. ...... Charlotte Bronte. Shirley.--By the author of "Jane Eyie." With an illustration ,..................  Ernest Renan's French Works.   IC-I aol IIM,  ia"1 -, The Life of Jesus .................. $ 75 Lives of the Apostles ............. I 75   Life of Saint Paul................ .,- 1 75 Bible in India.-By Jacolliot ....,.; a oo   Ceo. W. Carleton.   Our Artist in Cuba.-Pictures. ..... $I 5o Our Artist in Peru--   Do. ...... 50   Our Artist in Africa. (Ia press.)..$s 50 Our Artist in Mexico.    Do.   .. I 50   Fanny Fern's Works.   Polly as it Flies ...................$i 50 Gingersnaps...............    ..... X 50   I Caper-Sauce .(new)........... $ 50 A Memorial.-By James Parton.... X oo   Josh Billings' Comic Works.   Josh Billings' Proverbs ..........$..  50 Josh Billings on Ice ............... x 50   I Josh Billings' Farmer's Alminax, 25 cts- D      (In paper covers.)   Verdant Creen. A racy English college story--with numerous comic illustrations ................... $ 5o Algernon Charles Swinburne, Laus Veneris, and Other Poems.-An elegant new edition .....  ...........$.. I 50 French Love-Songs.-Selected from the best French authors .................. I 50 'Robert Dale Owen. The Debatable Land Between this World and the Next     ................. 00oo Threading My Way.--Twenty-five years of Autobiography ....................... x 5o The Came of Whist. Pole on Whist.-Thelate English standard work ............................. co , Mother Coose Set to Music, Mother Coose Melodies.--With music for singing, and many illustrations ..... .$i 5o M. M. Pomeroy "Brick."   Sense-(a serious book) .............  z 50 Gold-Dust    Do.   ............. I 50 Our Saturiay. Nights .............    50o   Nonsense--(a comic book) .........$i So Brick-Dust   Do.   .........  50 S Life of M. M. Pomeroy..... . ... I 50   Joseph Rodman Drake. The Culprit fay.-The well-known fairy poem, with zoo illustrations ............  The Culprit Fay.     / Do. .     suberbly bound in turkey morocO. 6 oo Richard   B. Kimball.   Was He successful   .  ............. V 75 Undercurrents of Wll/Street .... x 75 SaintLeger .........../ ......... I 75 Romance of Student Iife .........  75   Life in San Domingo..............li So Henry Powers, Banker.......,.0.    x 75 To-Daym  ............................ ; 75 Emilie  (In press.).............  .   belia E. Cardner's Novels.   Stolen Waters- (inVerse). .  i 50 Broken Dreams /Do. .......... so I   Tested; ...........  ...(in prose. $ S75 Rich Medway's Two Loves De.. . 7!       / Mrs. N. S. Emerson. Betsey and I arOut--And other Poems. A Thanksgiving 4csyr..............x 5X Louisa  M. Alcott. , orning Glori-A cautiful juvenile, by the author of "Litdtle Wome" ........ z S9o Ceo. A. Crofutt. Trans.-Continental Tourist from New Ycrk to"San Francisco.--Illustrated .Is i   Miscellaneous Works. lHoW to Make Money; and How to Keep It.--By Thomas A. Davies  ............. I 5 Tales from the Operas.-A collection o, Stories based upon the plots ............. so Newt Nonsense Rhymes.--B W. H. Beckett, with illustrations by C. G. Bush.. oo Wood's Guide to the City of New York.--Beautifully illustrated.. I o. The Art of Amusing.-A book of home amusements. with Illus-tra ons . X  ..o A Book About Lawyers.-A curious and interesting volume. By Jeaffreson,.. 2 ' A Book About Doctors.    Do.        .      Do. 2o D  oc The Birth and Triumph of Love.-FuIl of exquisite tinted illustrations ... ..... o Progressive Petticoats.--A satirical tale by Robert B. Roosevelt ................ so Ecce Femina, or, The Woman Zoe.-Cuyler Pine, author "lary Brandegeee." I 5, Women and Theatres.-A bright and readable book by Olive Logan.......  Souvenirs of Travel.--By Madame Octavia Walton Le Vert ..............   o Wo aLove and Marriage.--A spicy little work by Fred Saunders .......  Shiftlsslks.--A brilliant new novelby Fannie Smih.....   .........   " A W6man in Armorc--A powerful new novel by Mary Hartwell................... I 50 Female Beauty and the Art of Pleasing.-From the'Flench ............ 50 Transformation Scenes in the United States.-By Hiram Fuiler ....::.....  5 The Fall of Man.--A Darwinian satire. By author "New Gospel Peace." ....... 50 The Chronicles of Gotham.-A modern satire.  Do.    Do.    ..   25 The Story of a Summer.-Journal Leaves by Cecelia Cleveland ...... ..  Phemie Frost's Experiences.-By Mrs. Ann S..Stephcns..::::::::::::::::;  s 75 Miscellaneous Novels.   A Charming Widow.-Macquoid.$i 75 True to Him Ever.-By F. W. R.. x 50 The Forgiving Kiss.--By M. Loth. I 75 Loyal Unto Leath ................ 1 75 Bessie Wilmir/ton.--Westcott..... I 75 Cachet.--Mrs. M. J. R. Hamilton... 1 75 Mark Gildersleeve.-J. S. Sauzade. I 75 Crown Jewels.-Mrs. Moffat....... I 75 Avery Glibun.- Orpheus C. Kerr... 2 oo The Cloven Foot.-   Do    ... x 50 Romance of Railroad.-Smith....  x 50 Fairfax.-John Esten Cooke ......... ..  5 Hilt to Hilt.--  Do.  ......    50 Out of the Foam.-    .... ..... 50 Hammer and Rapier.-   ......... 50 Kenneth, My King.--S. A. Brock.. 1 75 Heart Hungry.-M. J. Westmoreland  75 Clifford Troupe.   - Do.    x 75   Four Oaks.-Kamba Thorpe.....   7S.. Maurice.-From the French ......... o 'Purple and Fine Linen.-Fawcett . x 75 Faustina.-From the German ....... s50o Adrift with a Vegeance... ..'... i so Adrift in Dixie.--Edmund Kirke .z 50 Among the Guerillas.-  Do. .. o Among the Pines.-   Do. ,   so 0 My Southern Friends.- Do.  ..  0 Down in Tennessee.-   Do.   o 5o Ebon and Gold.-C. L. Mcllvain.. x 50 Robert Greathouse.--J. F. Swift.. 2 o00 Warwick.--By M. T. Walworth.... X 75 Lulu.-      Do.      ' 75 Hotspur.-    Do.       7 Stormcliff.-   Do.       75 Delaplaine.-   Do.    .   75 Beverly.-'    Do.       75   Miscellaneous Works.   Beldazzle's Bachelor Studies..... $s oo Little Wanderers.-Illustrated..... i 5o Genesis Disclosed.-T. A. Davies.. x 50 Commodore Rollingpin's Log.... I 50 Brazen Gates.-A juvenile ......... i 50 Antidote to Gates Ajar ...........5 cts. The Snoblace Ball Do, .........25 cts.   Northern Ballads.-Anderson,......i oo O. C. Kerr Papers.-4 vols. in ..... 2 00 Victor Hugo.-His fe........   .. 00 Beauty is Power .............    - 50 Sandwiches.-Artemus Ward ....... ctS. Widow Spriggins.-Widow Bedott 1 75 Squibob Papers.-John Phoenix.... i 5o  UlhUz $o   Miscellaneous Works. Bill Arp's Peace Papers.-Full of comic illustrations. .......................... I  A Book of Epitaphs.-Amusing, quaint, and curious  (New.) .......a ....... * .; x  50 Ballad of Lord Bateman.-With illustrations by Cruikshank (paper) * o cts5 The Yachtman's Primor.-For amateur sailors. T. R. Warren (paper)......,. scts. Rural Architecture.--By M. Field. With plans and illustrations ............... 00 What I Know of. Farming.-Bly Horace Greeley ............   .......... I so Twelve Views of Heaven.-Bly T'welve I)uiinguhed Engh D'ivines . : . I So Houses Not Made With Hands.-A juvenile, illustrated by Hoppin.... . ....  oo Impending Crisis of the South.-By Hinton Rowan Helper.... .............  I        . i^ ^^^^^^^   CHARLES DICKENS' WORKS. A New  Edition, Among the many editions of the works of this greatest of English- Novelists, there has not been until now one that entirely satisfies the public demand.-Without exception, t.;ey each have some strong distinctive objection,--either the form and dimensions of the volumes are unhandy-or, the type is small and indistinct- or, the illustrations are unsatisfactory-or, the binding is poor-or, the price is too high. An entirely new edition is now, however, published by G. W. Carleton & Co. of New York, which, it is believet, will, in every respect, completely satisfy the popular demand.-It is known as t(Carletons New   Illustrated Edition." COMPLETE IN 15 VOLUMES. The size and form is most convenient for holding,-the type is entirely new, and of a clear and open character that has received the approval of the reading community in other popular works. The illustrations are by the original artists chosen Ly Charles' Dickens himself-and the paper, printing, and binding are of an attractive-and substantial character. This beautiful new edition iscomplete in I5 volumes-at the extremely reasonable price of $i.5opecrvolume, as follows:- I.--PICKWICK PAPERS AND CATALOGUE. 2.--OLIVER TWIST. -UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. 3.--DAVID COPPERFIELD. 4.-GREAT EXPECTATIONS.-ITALY AND AMERICA. 5.---DOMBEY AND SON. 6.--BARNABY RUDGE AND EDWIN DROOD. 7.---NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 8.-CURIOSITY SHOP AND MSCELLANEOUS. 9.-BLEAK HOUSE. IO.-LITTLE DORRIT. I I.-MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. 12.-OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. I3.--CHRISTMAS BOOKS.-TALE OF TWO CITIIS. 4.--SKETCHES BY BOZ AND HARD TIMES. 15.---CHLD'S ENGLAND AND MSCELLANEOUS. The first volume-Pickwick Papers-contains an alphabetical catalogue of all of Charles Dickens! writings, with their positions in the volumes. This edition is sold by Booksellers, everywhere-and single speci. men cppies will be forwarded by mail, postage free, on receipt of *rice, 1$.50, by G. W. CARLETON & CO., Publishers, Madison Square, New York.   THREE VALUABLE BOOKS, All Beautifully Printed and Elegantly Bound. X L-The Art of Conversation, With- Drwctdonsx for Self-Culture. An admirably conceived and enUrtein work-sensible; instructive, and fell of suggestions valuable to every one who desires to be either a good taker or listener, or who wishes to appear to adzva- Inge In good society. Every young and even old person Should read it, study it orer sAud over again, and follow those hints in it which lead them to break ul bad habits and cultivate good ones. *** Price $1.50. Among the contents wX'l be tound chapters upon-   KTIENTION IN CONGVERSATION.-SAT- IBE.--PUNS--SARbCASM.- TEASING.- CENSURE. - - FAULT-FINDING.--- EGOT- IBM.-POLITENESS.-COMPLIMENTS.- RTORIES.-ANECDOTES.-Q UESTIONING. -LtBERTEE --IMPUDENCE.-- STARING. -DISAGBRIRABT IT SUBJECTB. - SEL-   FISHNE8S. -ARGUMENT.-- BACBOU[JU. -SILENT PEOPLE.-DINNER CON- VERSATION.-TIMDITY.-ITS CUBE.- MODESTY.---CORREC' --LANG UAGE.- SELF-INSTRUCTION. -MSCELLANEOUS KNOWLEDGIE.- ANGUAGES.   lI.--The Habits of Good Society. A Handbook for Ladies and Gentlenen. With thoughts, hints, and anecdotes ooncerning social observances, nice points of taste and good manners, and the art of making oneself agreeable. The whole interspersed with humorous illu- trationf of social predicaments, remarks on fashion, etc. ** Price $1.50. Among tho contents will be found chapters upon--   GENTLEMEN'S aPREFAOE. "ADIE IPREFACE.-FASHONS. THOUGHTS ON SOCIETY. Goo0, SOCIETY.-BAD SOCIETY. Txs DRESSING-ROOM. TH1E LADIES' TOILET.-DBESS. PEM ININE ACCOMPLISHMENTS. MAdNSERS AND HABITS. ?PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ETIQUETTE. AIE AN UNMARRIED AND UNMARRIED LADIES. DO    DO GENTLEMEN. CALLING ETIQUETTE.-CARDS. VISITIrrNG ETIQUETTE.-DINNERS. DINNER PARTIES.   "ADIES AT DINNER. DINNER HABITS.--CARVINO. MANNERS AT SUPPBB.--BAIAJe MORNING PARrTES.--I-PINxIC EVENING PARTIES.-DANCES. PRIVATE THEATRICALS. RECEPTIONS. -SNG AGEMENTS. MARRIAGE CEREMONIES. INVITATIONS.-DRESSES. BRIDESMAIDS.-PRESENTS TRAVELLING ETIQUETTE. PUBLIO PROMENADE. COUNTRY VISITS.-CITY VISITS.   I1l.-Arts of Writing, Reading, and Speaking. An exceedingly fascinating work for teaching not only the beginner, but fog perfecting every one in these three most desirable accomplishments. For youth this book is both interesting and valuable; and for adults, whether professionally' or socially, it is a book that they cannot dispense with. *** Price $1.60. Among the contents will be found chapters upon-   READING & THNKING.--LANGUAGE.- WORDS, SENTENCES, & CONSTRUCTION. WHAT TO AVOID. --LETTER WRITING.- PRONUNCIATION.-EXPRESSION.-TONE RELIGIOUS READINGS.-THE BIBLE.-- PRAYERS8 -DRAMATIC READ1NGS.-THE ACTOR & READER.-FOUNDATIONS FOR 'ORATORY AND SPEAKING.-- HAT TO   SAY.-WHAT NOT TO SAY.-HOW TO BEGIN.- CAUTIONS.-DELIVERY. -WRIT- ING A SPEECH.-FIRST LESSONS.-PUB- "Io0 SPEAKING.-DELIVERY.-- ACTION. ORATORY OF T'rHE PULPIT.--COMPOSI- TION.-THE BAR.--READING OF WIT & ]RUMOR.-THi PLATFORM.-CONSTRUO- TION OF A SPEECH.   WTke works are the most perfece of their kind ever publisAd; fwesh, sensble' oead-humored. entertaining, and readable. Every person of taste 8hould po9-    w ta th and cannot be otherwie than delighted with them. IW' A beautiful new minature edition of thesbe ,ery popular bowt*r has just been published, entitled '"THE DIAMOND EDITION," three little volumes, elo antly printed oa ted ed paper, and handsomely bound in a box. Prioe $3.00. $* These books are all sent by mail, asaged free, on receipt of price, by  W. CAlLETON & CO., Publ!shers, Madison Square, Now Tor?0r   MARY J. HOLMES' WORKS.   w.-TEMPEST AND SULNSHNIt. '  HENGLISH ORPHANS. ;-:-HOMESTEAD ON HLLSIDE. $--'LENA RIVERS. S, -MEADOW BROOK. 6 --DORA DEANE. 7 -COUSIN MAUDE.       8. -MARIAN GRAY. 9.-DARKNESS AND DAYIGCW tro.-HUGH WOR1 H INGTO,. xt.-CAMERON PRIDE. X2.-ROSE 'MATIIER. I3.-ETHELYN'S MSTAKE.  ".-h-MLL1;ANK. p15.--EDNA BROWNING.   OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. "Mrs. Holmes stories are universally read. Her admirers are numberless. She is in many respects without a rival in the world of fiction. Her characters are always ;ife-tke, and she makes them talk and act like human beings, subject to the same emotions, swayed by the same passions, and actuated by the same motives which are common among men and women of every day existence. Mrs. ILolmes is very happy ir portraying domestic life. Old and young peruse hex stories with great delight, for she writes in a style that all can comprehend."-- Neeo York Weekly. 'Mrs. Holmes' stories are all of a domestic character, and their interest, therefore, is not so intense as if they were more highly seasoned with sensational- ism, but it is of a healthy and abiding character. Almost any new book which her publisher might choose to announce from her pen would get an immediate and general reading. The interest in her tales begins at once, and is maintained to the close. Her sentiments are so sound, her sympathies so warm and ready, and her knowledge of manros, character, and the varied incidents of ordinary life is so thorough, that she kould find it difficult to write any other than an excellent tale if she were to t7 it"--Boston Banner. "Mrs. Holmes is very amusing; has a quick and true sense of humor, a sympathetic tone, a. perception of character, and a familiar, -attractive style' pleasantly adapted to the comprehension and the taste of that large class oi American readers for whom fashionable novels and ideal fantasies have no zeanln"- Henry T. Tuckerman. Sl   The -volunes are all handsomely printed and bound in cloth,-sold wwlr here, and sent by mail, postage free, on receipt of price L[$.50 each], by G. W. CARLETON & CO., Publishers, Mnladison  Square,- New    Yi orb    
         
       
   
