
    ----CITATION----
        Parker, Helen F. (1827-1874). Sunrise and Sunset .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7384
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               SUNRISE AND SUNSET. 
             
          
          
             
             
               SUNRISE AND SUNSET: 
               A True Tale. 
             
            BY HELEN F. PARKER.
             
            
               AUBURN: 
               DERBY AND MILLER. 
               BUFFALO: 
               DERBY, ORTON AND MULLIGAN. 
               CINCINNATI: 
               HENRY W. DERBY.
             
            1854. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three, by HELEN F. PARKER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Northern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            THE sketch of a life, from the bright morning of childhood, through a clouded noon, to a no less bright evening of old age-a life, too, that dawned in the eastern hemisphere and closed in the western-may be entitled "Sunrise and Sunset" with double propriety. The simple text of fact is given, with little comment, so that the reader's own reflection may carry out the moral of the story, which is, chiefly, the subduing influence of stern experiences, strange as those of fiction, on a high-spirited nature. No elaboration of the idea-no metaphysical analysis of supposed states of feeling-seems needful to exhibit this truth, but only that the tale should teach its own lesson. Offered from a private portfolio, it claims no merit but that of a truthful delineation of home-life in Ireland and in America, many years ago, as it came from the lips of one now resting in the grave, after a long and eventful life, which closed peacefully, amidst the third generation of her descendants. 
          
          
             
            INTRODUCTION. 
            IN the days when our heads were turned with Robinson Crusoe and Arabian Nights, we children used to be sent off in a flock to the nursery at "early candlelight." The youngest were snugly tucked away in the trundle-bed, and the rest of us, if tired of nut-cracking, were sure to find amusement enough in pushing the little ones, trundle-bed and all, under the larger couch, at the risk of crushing the innocents. Whereupon screams of laughter were sure to mingle in such uproarious concert as to call forth the admonitions of our good old grand-mother, already numbering nearly four-score, who invariably spent the long winter evenings with us. She would sit by the work-stand in an ample, green, stuffed chair, with her Bible on her knee, reading its worn pages for hours. 
            When wearied with our sports and tricks, we gathered around, teazed for stories, then softly stole away the great book, hid her spectacles, and with much coaxing and many promises of good behavior, finally succeeded in gaining her consent. Placing half a dozen pippins on the stove to roast for the sake of hearing them "siss and pop," we seated ourselves, after much ado, all about her. 
            "Tell us about the sea, grand-mother," said one. 
            "And the war," shouted a roguish, unruly brother. 
            "No, no! About your being a little girl with your hair powdered, and the pointed shoes," eagerly whispered another. To please all, she would begin at the foundation with, "Once upon a time"-that sentence has its charm for little people-and recount to us the scenes that were still strangely distinct in her memory. 
            In later times we heard those reminiscences repeated to the younger children till they came to be as clearly enrolled among the remembrances of years ago, as are the hills, lakes, and the remains of the ancient fort about which we rambled. 
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               PART FIRST. 
               I. CHILDHOOD, 17
                
               II. FIRST LOVE, 32
                
               III. DISAPPOINTMENT, 43
                
             
             
               PART SECOND. 
               IV. COURTSHIP, 67
                
               V. MARRIAGE, 87
                
             
             
               PART THIRD. 
               VI. BATTLE-SCENE, 97
                
               VII. THE BURGLAR, 130
                
             
             
               PART FOURTH. 
               VIII. VOYAGE, 147
                
               IX. NEW HOME, 169
                
               X. RETRIBUTION, 184
                
             
             
               PART FIFTH. 
               XI. LIFE'S SUNSET, 203
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Sunrise and sunset 
             
                
                
               Part First. 
               CHILDHOOD. 
               FIRST LOVE. 
               DISAPPOINTMENT. 
                
                   
                   
                  I. CHILDHOOD. 
                  IRELAND, like many of the States of Europe, possesses a population made up of two or more races, speaking distinct languages, and with habits and modes of life widely differing, although for centuries claiming home within the same boundaries, and under the same government. The contrast is somewhat softened by intermediate grades; still the difference is very marked. 
                  The south and west of Ireland are inhabited by a class of people almost entirely Catholics; bigoted, ignorant, superstitious, and extremely poor, except in the larger towns and cities. Scattered in little rented sections over the moors, heaths, and even among the bogs which form an important feature of the island, they manage to subsist on potatoes, and a variety of fish taken by solitary fishermen, who venture out upon the sea in frail, wicker corachs-a kind of boat coated with green hide. Their language, especially along the western coast, is so unintelligible as often to require an interpreter, when in communication with those of the north. 
                  The north and east of Ireland are occupied by a people of Scotch and English descent, mixed with the native Irish. The manners, customs and language of the former, characterise them, and the Protestant religion is almost exclusively professed by them. As a class, they are an intelligent, industrious and hardy people, and feel themselves as much superior to what are called the "native Irish," as the Americans are to the Indian race. The land is under superior cultivation vation, and is not so completely forsaken by landholders and the nobility, as is the case in the more barren, southern regions; thus a thriving and enterprising impulse is given that greatly contributes to the wealth and prosperity of the population. 
                  With all its disadvantages, Ireland deserves the encomiums so lavishly bestowed on its beauty by those who proudly claim it as their birthplace. The luxuriant greenness of its vegetation, the graceful foliage of the willows and larches, the dark firs among the mountains, the bold, rocky shores of the north, the countless lakes, with their wooded islands, ruins of ancient castles, picturesque monasteries and convents, the round towers, whose origin and use still remain a mystery, and the host of holy wells and enchanted resorts, give romance to its history, as well as strange beauty to its scenery. 
                  Ireland has been unjustly dealt with by English historians, English government, and American ican estimates of her resources, suggested by the poor emigrants from her barren heaths. Sir John Davies wrote thus of Ireland in 1612: 'I have observed the good temperature of the ayre, the fruitfulness of the soyle, the pleasant and commodious seats for habitation, the safe and large ports and havens lying open for trafficke into all the western parts of the world; the long inlets of many navigable rivers, and so many great lakes and fresh ponds within the land, as the like are not to be seen in any part of Europe; the rich fishings; the wild fowle of all kinds; and lastly the bodies and minds of the people endued with extraordinary abilities of nature.' 
                  The heaths and bogs, of which he does not speak, contain hard, coal-like fuel, extending to an unknown depth beneath the peat-enough to supply all England for a century to come, and is a mine of wealth which no practical, speculating Yankee would have left unopened through centuries, had he possessed the soil. 
                   
                  In the county of Armagh, in the north of Ireland, lived, a hundred years ago, a wealthy land-holder, who prided much in the broad, fruitful acres of his inheritance. A large share of it was rented to a respectable tenantry, but the most picturesque portion he had retained for his own use; a rich rolling extent of ground, mapped out by a ridge of low, stone walls, and parted into fields by dark green lines of neatly-trimmed, hawthorn hedges. 
                  The house was of stone, plastered and white-washed, according to the fashion of those days, with a portico extending across the whole front, supported by small, white columns. It stood upon a smooth, green slope, which descended gently to the highway, and was pleasantly sheltered and shaded by groups of larch and oak. A hugh, old willow reared its waving top close by the dwelling, sweeping the steep roof with its long, trailing boughs, and spreading out its enormous branches in roomy proportions that soon tempted the children to occupy it as a strong-hold, against the perpetual war which threatened the extermination of their pigmy, doll population and the attendant paraphernalia. 
                  A terraced garden extended behind the house, and beyond rose a group of low, undulating hills. A spring gurgled from one of the slopes, and tumbled down the declivity in miniature water-falls, till, circling round the base of one of the hills, it glided into a glen and supplied a sacred well, or pool, almost hidden from the passer-by, among a thick growth of bushes and low trees that dipped their branches into the clear, still water. Though hidden at the hill-side, it was well known to the Catholics for miles around as the scene of a miracle, performed by a favorite saint to whom they might appeal when in distress. Strips of cloth, of every hue, were fastened to the bending boughs and bushes, to remind the saint of their petitions. A prayer of penance, the devout sign of the cross, a low murmuring of what burdened the heart, and they went away as noiseless as they came, leaving the branches streaming with emblems of their blind superstition. 
                  Mr. Synton gave them free access to his grounds, believing that every man had a right to his own mode of worship, but sought to convince those erring people of their mistaken faith in the charmed waters. Though he frequently assailed them with earnest arguments, he was respected by them for his never-failing justice, and won their strong attachment by the warm, ready greeting of his manner. 
                  He was a tall, robust, bold-featured man, with a pleasant, humorous countenance, in conversation; yet his face, in repose, wore the impress of a stern determination of character. Being of a lively, social temperament, his patience was often taxed by the demure, quiet ways of his little, quaker wife. In her youth, in spite of the close bonnet overshadowing her mild eyes, and handkerchief folded firmly over her heart, he had found his way to both, won, and borne her away from the "Friends." Although she had permitted herself to be dissevered from the society, she retained the religious impression of her maidenhood, and gently maintained her own way of thinking, or worshiping, despite the occasional raillery of her husband. 
                  "Come out upon the lawn with us, and have a gay frolic! Why are you so silent, Elizabeth?" asked he when she sat quiet and thougtful. 
                  "Thee knows very well, William. I am communing with the spirit. I will go with thee by-and-by." But Mr. Synton had no idea of leaving her to her involuntary solitude. With perfect ease he lifted her in his arms and carried her off triumphantly, amid the merry shouts of the children. She was of unusually small stature, and, though of middle age, retained her youthful looks to a surprising degree. Possibly the entire absence of wrinkles in her calm, sweet face, was owing to the serenity of her temper, and the cultivation of a kind spirit that shone in her countenance even to old age; for, though she lived a hundred years, the same expression was there, the same smooth brow and clear eye, the same bright color upon her cheek. She met death in a gentle sleep, and when shrouded for the grave, none would have dreamed when looking upon the still youthful features, with scarcely the trace of sorrow or age, that the breath of a century had passed over them. But to return. 
                  Notwithstanding her mildness, the strictest obedience was enforced upon their three sons and only daughter, Kathleen. In Ireland, the word of the parent is absolute law, and the slightest departure from it is punished with the utmost severity. Such influence, together with the sternness of their father, rarely failed to secure ready obedience to their girlish mother. 
                  Kathleen, the pet of the household, won an especial place in her father's affections, which was chargeable to her frolicsome nature, in entire contrast with her three staid brothers. Joining in her sports, he could give vent to his playful moods, and never tire of her mischievous tricks. She was sure to find an asylum with him, if an extra expenditure of her love of mirth had incurred the displeasure of her brothers. In his absence, the topmost branches of the willow were not too high for her to climb for concealment, and in spite of the cries of "Kathleen! Kathleen!" that might resound far and near, she would persist in retaining her hiding-place till her father's return secured her defence. Nothing was out of the reach of her mischief-loving fingers, as even the poor Catholics could testify, had they known what saint caused their tokens of appeal to disappear from the bushes down by the holy well. 
                  But Miss Kate was constrained to her best behavior, when the Saturday evening sunset announced the beginning of the Sabbath. In the observance of the sacred hours, Mr. Synton was minutely particular; he required the same regard from every member of the household. When the sun had set, all labor was discontinued, and the family gathered in the neatly arranged parlor. The curtains were dropped before the windows, that none should be tempted to look out, or be diverted from the diligent study of the catechism, in preparation for the coming of the pastor. On stated occasions he visited each family within his jurisdiction, assembled every member of it, and listened to the recital of the catechism from the grey-headed father and ancient matron, down to the lisping child. The children could not always understand the expositions, but it was all the same if they had their lesson by rote, for when the whole was committed-unless at an earlier age than fifteen-they were admitted to the communion. 
                  For once in all the week, Kate was glad when bed-time came, nor was she ever ready to give a cordial greeting to the Sabbath morning that came like a spell, hushing and softening every sound. No laughter, or light words, no labor of any kind, no rambling under the trees, or along the shaded avenues of the garden. They partook of the simple, cold, morning meal, prepared in every particular the day previous, and then gathered in the quiet parlor again for religious exercises. The mother sat there with her close, neat, little cap, white as snow, around her placid face. Her severely plain garb was in direct contrast with all the rest. Mr. Synton occupied the great square arm-chair, looking stately, portly and dignified; the more so for his hair being stiffly powdered, thrown back and fastened in a long cue behind. A long-bodied, blue coat, with massive bright buttons, short clothes, elaborate knee and shoe-buckles most fastidiously fastened, completed his dress, which was faithfully copied in miniature in the three urchins who were demurely seated opposite. Kathleen's attire was not less showy than the others. She was perilously mounted beside her brothers, in a chair of broad, high-backed dimensions, the seat of which was too elevated to permit even the tip of her pointed shoe to touch the floor, in spite of the utmost stretch. Teeming with sly mischief, she was sure to break the imposed quiet with a burst of irrepressible laughter, or with her comical attempts at release and a side whisper, she would get her staid brothers into fits of merriment that were sure to gain for them a severe reprimand. What was to become of the perverse Kathleen, no one could tell. 
                  At a punctual hour, Mr. Synton led the way along the road-side, or, mounted on his riding-horse, with a pillion behind him for his quaint, little wife, went with sober countenance to the old church of the Seceders, which stood at the turning of the highway, a mile distant. 
                   
                  Though the public services were not calculated to edify the children, being as much beyond their comprehension as the unexplained catechism, still, as with that, strict attention was enforced, and it was good fortune to them, if they kept awake during half the sermon; otherwise they would be made sensible of the requirements by an occasional shake. The ever-wakeful Kathleen had no trouble of that kind, however, for she found abundant occupation in slily pinning the long cues of her nearest neighbors fast to the pew, or making wry faces in the enormous, mirror-like buttons that decorated her father's coat. She would find something to do; and if the preacher spoke in enigmas beyond the power of her brain to puzzle out, she persisted in employing her eyes and fingers in no very devotional way, in spite of the punishment that would inevitably follow. 
                  When the family were gathered again beneath the home-roof, the reading of the Scriptures and religious conversation were resumed, till the sun went down. This event was narrowly watched by the uneasy children, to whom the day had been made so void of interest that it was with ill-concealed joy they bade good night to the last sun-beam-the signal of the cessation of the Sabbath. The curtains were looped back, the books laid by, the servants resumed their labor, the calm, gentle mother noiselessly superintended her household, while the father strolled through the fields with his children, or assisted them at a game on the lawn, till night closed in. The business of the new week had fairly commenced. 
                
                
                   
                  II. FIRST LOVE. 
                  THUS the week-days and Sabbaths of Kathleen's childhood passed away with little to mark it, except the development of an impulsive, willful, high-spirited nature, which required all her father's sternness to curb. As was customary, at fifteen she became a communicant of the church of the Seceders-a mere outward form without an inner response, that had no effect whatever upon her character. She was the same pleasure-seeking, thoughtless, laughter-loving girl as before. Whether journeying or hunting, at the fairs or watering-places, she was always at her father's side. No journey was too long, no ride too fatiguing, no undertaking too dangerous. Sometimes perched upon a pillion behind him, and sometimes firmly and gracefully seated upon a spirited pony that had been a birth-day gift, she would gallop away for miles, ford the streams, or leap hedge after hedge, bound over the low, stone walls, sweep the fields, and return, glowing with the exercise and excitement, to her father's side for his approval. He gloried in her free, bold horsemanship, and gratified his pride by displaying her graceful accomplishment in frequent trips to the nearest gay resorts of the fashionable world. Equipped in a rich, cloth habit, of more sensible dimensions than the modern, flowing skirt that risks the life of the wearer, and crowned with a picturesque hat ornamented with a gold band and waving, black plumes, she was ready for a day's excursion. 
                  At eighteen, Kate was the acknowledged belle of the neighborhood. No excursion or festive gathering was thought complete in enjoyment without her, since she possessed the rare tact of inspiring those about her with the same liveliness that animated herself. In gala dress, she was indisputably beautiful. Her hair powdered, thrown from her face, and confined at the back of her finely-rounded head, in a silken coiffure, fastened with friezing pins, exposed to advantage the striking but perfectly feminine features. A smooth, open forehead, fine arched brows, beneath which beamed eyes of jetty black that flashed or softened with her emotions, an acquiline nose and a mouth that betrayed more pride than sweetness, made up a face whose greatest charm lay in the ever-varying and animated expression. Her tall, full figure was well-displayed in the neat-fitting satin bodice, if not in the wide hooped skirt she wore. High-heeled shoes, which she managed with admirable dexterity, completed her costume. 
                  Thus attired, one evening she sought her mother's approval. But a mild reproof was all she could elicit from the mother, who rarely entered into the gayeties in which her father so readily accompanied her. 
                  "Thee knows, Kathleen, I love not to see thee so gay. Thy father will spoil thee," was the quiet remark, after a survey, from which she returned to her employment. Kathleen went away with the feeling of vexation that arises in one's heart, when a favorite course does not meet the approbation of one whose judgment is revered. But her momentary regrets were forgotten in the evening festivities, at a near country seat, where stately dames in stiff brocades, and powdered and ruffled gentry walked the graceful minuet, while fair, young girls and gallant sons of Erin mingled in the more animating, national dances, and whirled in pirouettes or the mazy waltz. 
                  Among the many who sought the lively Kathleen, was one who, after a long absence, had returned to his home and the companions of his younger years. His mother, a wealthy widow, occupied the estate adjoining Mr. Synton's, and thus Kathleen and Henry Arvine had been almost constant companions in childhood. There was a congeniality in his lively temperament that made her prefer his society to either of her brothers, and readily receive the thousand little services which his kindly nature prompted him to bestow. It was he who helped her out of a maze in study, he who gathered wild flowers for her; who led the frisky pony in his first riding lessons till the motion was familiar, and afterwards, with her father, galloped by her side along the smooth, paved roads or the shores of some of the many lakes that beautify Ireland's scenery. He had shared the pet griefs and mischievous frolics of her childhood; he had laughed, chatted and sung with her in her free girlhood; but such a life could not continue long. At last, with unembarrassed tears and expressions of affection they parted; he to develop velop the powers of manhood in foreign scenes; she to expand in the full glory of her personal womanhood, under protecting, paternal care. 
                  Each, during that long absence, almost unconsciously to themselves, had preserved the ineffaceable image of the other, and made it the standard by which to judge all beside. Arvine was attracted by an irresistible sympathy towards those who laughed, spoke, or moved like Kathleen, till he could no longer conceal it from himself that Kathleen embodied his cherished ideal. 
                  They met again in the midst of the gay throng. Noble and manly in his bearing, intelligent, vivacious, and the heir of great wealth, his coming produced an undeniable sensation among ambitious, match-making mothers and aspiring daughters. But his eyes and heart were directed to Kathleen, whose beauty had so wondrously expanded during their long parting. His face looked and smiled the satisfaction he secretly felt at noting the blush that deepened upon the cheek of his long-chosen favorite, when he received her hand in his with a glad greeting. For once Kate was abashed, and lost her usual self-possession. Vexation at herself, for her want of ease in the presence of the very one whose opinion she prized the most, checked her flow of sprits; the few constrained inquiries that passed between them served to embarrass her all the more. When he turned away to others, she worried herself with thinking what a dunce he must take her to be, and how indifferently she had received him after an absence of years. It had nearly spoiled her evening's pleasure. 
                  At the close of a reel, he again approached her, and led her away from the group of flippants who paid their court. For the sake of recalling old remembrances, he left the crowded rooms, and they sat together in a happily arranged conservatory. Before they returned to the dance he had, with Irish impetuosity and warmth, unfolded all his dreams, his love, and his hopes, and drawn from her the confused acknowledgment of what she had scarcely confessed to herself, that she loved none other than Arvine. 
                  It seemed only a happy dream in the midst of that bewildering music and mirth, but a deeper, calmer, more enduring joy gladdened them, when, in an after and quiet home-scene, came the trysting, the father's blessing, and the mother's approving smile. A gift-ring of engagement encircled the finger of the affianced bride, and the promise was sealed. 
                  Days and weeks of the purest happiness followed. How bright the sun-shine seemed, and how glorious all creation! The world looked an Eden in the eyes of the lovers, and friends were ten-fold dearer; for the expanded affections seemed wide enough to enfold every loved one on earth. How our souls would be riveted to earth if such pure and exquisite joy could last a life-time, yet how wisely it is ordered otherwise, since the soul would forget to aspire to a holier, nobler existence! 
                  One evening at sunset, Kathleen and Arvine returned from a long excursion, in an unusually lively mood, alighted from their horses, said a smiling good night and parted, little dreaming of the ills that were awaiting them. Henry remounted and rode away, while Kate walked slowly towards the house, singing snatches of a ballad and striking at the bushes with her riding whip as she passed along. 
                  "Kathleen! Kathleen!" came a sharp, quick voice, that made her bound into the hall and look inquiringly into the room whence the voice proceeded. Her father was there, sitting in his accustomed chair near the window, but at her entrance he arose and walked rapidly back and forth as was his habit when excited. His flushed face wore an ominous scowl, and his hands were obstinately clasped behind him. He stopped short as she came nearer, with an expression of surprise and inquiry, and, in an angry, excited tone, exclaimed, 
                  "You shall never see the day that will make you the wife of Henry Arvine, nor shall he again cross my threshold. His haughty mother opposes his marriage since your dowry will not be equal to his inheritance. She has her eye upon an heiress, forsooth, as if you, my daughter, were not good enough for the greatest lord in the realm. Send that ring back to-night, nor dare to see that man's face again. If you disobey, you are no longer a child of mine!" concluded he, bringing his hand down heavily upon a slenderly supported table, as if to seal his resolve. 
                  The unexpected announcement stunned Kathleen too much for a reply. She stood still, looking at her father in amazement; her face flushed, her lips quivering with a fullness of feeling that could not readily find utterance. Mr. Synton read the indignant remonstrance in her face, but as she attempted to speak, he silenced her with, 
                  "Enough! You know my will. All you have to do, is to obey," said he, sternly, and left her alone. 
                  "I will not obey such a command," said she, after standing a moment. She brushed away the tears that were gathering in her eyes, and walked firmly from the room to seek her mother. 
                  "Mother," exclaimed she, on finding her in a favorite apartment that opened upon the front piazza. "Mother, do you know that--" 
                  Her angry determination melted before the sympathising look of her much loved parent, and, unable to utter another word, she burst into tears. 
                  "I know it all, my child," said she, drawing her tenderly towards her. "Do as thy father bade thee, Kathleen. He will certainly relent in time, for he loves thee too well to crush thy young spirit. Obey him, but remember, however it terminates, that the hand of God is in it for thy good." 
                  They wept together-Kathleen and her good, gentle mother, who had yet to learn the depth of her husband's stern, unyielding pride. 
                  A few weeks passed, during which Kathleen gradually resumed her cheerfulness. Her father seemed to have forgotten the severity with which he had treated her, for the subject had not once been recalled. He read in the returning sunshine of Kathleen's face, the obliteration of the love that had filled her heart, in ready obedience to his command, as if a stroke could dash out the ineffaceable impressions of first love. Kathleen had grown hopeful and cheerful, because she believed her father's silence indicated forgetfulness of his angry restrictions and their cause. Confident of his indulgence, she obeyed his commands only in part. 
                
                
                   
                  III. DISAPPOINTMENT. 
                  DOWN among the shady garden walks, upon the lower terrace and in the glen, often strolled, by star-light, two loving beings, whose existence seemed merged into one. A shade of sadness had fallen upon the interchange of soul once so joyous; they both keenly felt a degrading sense of the deception by which their stolen interviews were accomplished. It was galling to natures frank and free as theirs. Sometimes a manly voice of entreaty came up from the glen, urging flight, but the whispered reply was, ever, 
                  "No: I cannot bear my father's curse. Let us be patient yet a little longer. He will forget it all, and we shall be free and happy again." 
                   
                  Thus they met, till one evening, careless of their usual caution, their voices floated merrily on the air, and reached Mr. Synton's quick ear. He was pacing back and forth in the hall, the doors at both its extremities being thrown back to admit the cool, evening air. 
                  "Arrah! who's there with Kathleen?" said he aloud to himself; he approached the door, and leaning forward in a listening attitude, again heard the voices. 
                  "Kathleen! Kathleen!" shouted he, in the sharp, short tone that always evinced his displeasure. 
                  In an instant she bounded up the walks and stood by him. 
                  "Who is in the garden?" was his abrupt question. 
                  "Henry Arvine!" replied Kathleen, standing boldly erect, and disdaining to evade the question. 
                  A moment of silence ensued, during which Arvine, willing to shield one who had ventured her father's anger for his sake, came up to the silent group. In that moment the unrelenting father renewed his resolution to make the sting which his own pride had received, recoil upon Arvine's mother. He haughtily threw back his head and coldly returned Arvine's mild salutation, in which was neither servility nor defiance. 
                  "Mr. Synton," said he, calmly, "I trust you will pardon Kathleen's disobedience, since I tempted her. As for myself, I rely upon your sense of justice, which will sooner or later convince you of the unjust command you have laid upon us." 
                  "Go to your room, Kathleen. We will see if I am to be obeyed or not. And you, young man, hear my oath that, as long as God gives me breath, Kathleen shall not be your wife! Now relieve me of your presence, sir, if you please," said he, turning disdainfully upon his heel and entering the house. 
                   
                  Arvine burned with indignation and resentment, but checked the rising retort for Kathleen's sake; he slowly walked away to the lower terrace, crossed the little stream that watered it, and, mounting his horse that was secured in the meadow near by, rapidly rode off. He bounded through the fields, leaped the hedges and stone walls, and struck into the highway. Away he galloped over hill and heath, uncovering his brow to the cool breeze, in the endeavor to calm his excitement. But he could not drive from his thoughts the words he had just heard. The more he revolved them, the more certainly he was assured of his separation from Kathleen, and the deeper became his conviction of the iron will of his tormentor. Still he went faster and farther, as if to outride his agonizing thoughts. He dashed along the highway, over hill and dale, past clustered hamlets and quiet dwellings, like a madman, without noting where he was borne. At last, reckless and exhausted, he gave loose reins to the panting animal, which quietly took the direction of home. Brought unconsciously to his own door, he leaped from the saddle and hastened to his apartment. 
                  There he paced the floor till morning dawned, then threw himself upon his couch, only to toss restlessly about, and seek in vain for relief from the intolerable pain that fired his heart and brain. He had for days been threatened with illness, which was now suddenly and fearfully developed by the intense excitement and anguish of the thought of relinquishing Kathleen, whom he loved with all the fervor and oneness of his ardent nature. He struggled to crush down his grief, and hide it in his inmost heart, but it made the blood pass in quick, heavy throbs through his fevered veins. 
                  Those who came near him, imagined those groans were extorted by physical pain; he impatiently motioned away their vain offers of relief. His mother, surprised and alarmed, made endless inquiries of the servants-one moment thinking he had been poisoned, and the next believing the horse had thrown him, since it had been found in the morning straying upon the ground, saddled and bridled. 
                  "Go for a physician instantly," said she, in an excited tone, to a faithful servant. "Ride fast-do not lose a moment!" 
                  Many hours elapsed before the desired assistance was obtained, for miles were to be traversed in seeking a skillful practitioner. Long before he appeared, Arvine was in a raving delirium, and the cause was no longer a mystery to the anxious mother. He betrayed it all in the unconscious moanings that were burdened with entreaties for Kathleen to fly with him, and in the wild gestures and threatening words addressed to her father's fancied presence. Then, in an agony of distress, he would cry out for Kathleen not to leave him, as he imagined her torn from him. He turned, tossed and raved with all the restlessness of burning delirium, while every word went to the heart of the proud, but remorseful mother. 
                  At length the Doctor arrived, and was ushered into the sick-chamber. He approached the bedside, rubbing his soft, fat hands with an air of satisfaction and pomposity, scarcely suited to the occasion. He grasped the feverish hand of his patient, watched him steadily, and listened to the unhappy bursts of entreaty and grief he uttered, then seated himself near by, and stroked his chin while he kept his twinkling eyes fixed upon Arvine. A low sound of assent to his own wise thoughts, and an occasional nod of his well-powdered head, evinced his interest. 
                  "Yes, yes," said he, finally, "I see, I see how it is. Love affair-troublesome things those-hard to deal with-rather set a broken leg than a broken heart-obstinate disease that!" 
                  He started up, and began rubbing his soft, fat hands again. 
                   
                  "Bleed him-bleed him!" said he in a decided tone, turning and giving orders to the nearest servant. In an instant, half a dozen articles, of all sorts and sizes, were brought by as many hands; for a sympathizing group had gathered near the door, unnoticed by their bewildered mistress, and each, with willing heartiness, ran to do something for their young master, but were sure to bring the very thing that was least wanted. 
                  In past years, the servants in wealthy families were the native Catholic Irish from the west or south, who presented themselves in market for hire, once each month. Others could not be obtained without difficulty; thus their rude manners, blundering good nature, and almost unintelligible brogue, had to be endured till they were better taught. 
                  "Go down, every one of you, instantly," commanded their haughty mistress, provoked at the confused intrusion. "Patrick, you must remain main," said she to a trim, active fellow who stood foremost. 
                  The darkened chamber was soon cleared. The next half hour was occupied in busy attentions and efforts to relieve the suffering patient. Reduced by the loss of blood, he became quiet and gradually fell into a listless slumber. The curtains were drawn softly about him; faint whispers and noiseless steps only now and then risked the quiet of the hours that were fast ticking away into midnight. 
                  "Mother!" said a weak but rational voice from within the curtains. In a moment, both she and the physician, who had remained, stood by him. He had awakened with the full memory of what had occurred, and comprehended his present position. Weak and faint, the thought of an eternal separation suggested itself; with it, came rushing back his intense devotional love for Kathleen. "Mother, send for Kathleen. Tell her I must see her." 
                   
                  The request was obeyed, and a messenger hastily dispatched. The worthy doctor noted with anxiety the rising pulse, and sought to combat the effects of Arvine's excited mind. Some time had elapsed when the messenger returned. He bounded up the staircase with long leaps, and suddenly thrusting his head into the doorway said, in that peculiar intonation of voice with which an Irishman communicates bad news, 
                  "The masther says niver a bit will he be afther letting Miss Kathleen come, and he is-" 
                  "Hush up!" vociferated the doctor, cutting short the sentence in his alarm for his patient, and shutting the door forcibly. 
                  "It is all for that uncouth fellow," said the mother encouragingly to Arvine. "I will send Patrick, and Kathleen will be here presently." 
                  "Has she come?" was Arvine's impatient inquiry, long into the morning hours; in spite of watchful efforts, he relapsed into the raging delirium of the previous day. 
                   
                  Again the lancet dipped into his veins, and again came the lethargy of weakness. 
                  Messenger after messenger was dispatched with urgent entreaties for Kathleen to come. The doctor stamped and raged, and told them to tell the iron-hearted father that Arvine's blood would be upon his head, if he did not relent. It was all useless. Another day passed, freighted with the most intense anxiety. Towards evening a last entreaty was sent, telling them Arvine could not live, and besought to see Kathleen once more. Kathleen heard the message, and, almost frantic with grief, clung to the father, who idolized her, yet strangely inflicted the keenest torture, rather than yield his proud will. 
                  "I have said no. No it shall be. His own mother decreed it," was his firm reply, as he drew himself up to his most stately height, and dismissed the servant. 
                  Kathleen hastened to the garden, gathered a few choice flowers that spoke the language of her love and grief, and, unperceived, gave it to the messenger, saying, while her face was bathed in tears, 
                  "Tell him I sent them. He can read what I would say." 
                  She stood watching him till he was out of sight, thinking of a thousand things she wished she had said, that were swelling up in her full heart. She longed for wings, and as she returned to her own silent room, weeping and sobbing painfully, she asked herself, 
                  "Shall I not disobey my father, and go?" 
                  Then came the remembrance of the penalty; she knew her father too well to believe he would ever receive her again if she disobeyed his command. Her mother, her brothers, her home-could she give them up, and never claim them by those loved names again? Could she brave her father's curse? But the memory of Arvine dying and calling upon her, rose above, and conquered quered, every fear. She became calm and almost breathless as she revolved a dozen plans to go unseen. At length, summoning a servant whom she knew could be trusted, she bade him be ready at midnight with a horse and pillion to take her to Arvine's home. 
                  Anxious and trembling, she sat at the low casement, looking out upon the fields and trees that were silvered with moonlight. Quiet was within and without; she could only hear the heavy beating of her heart. Yet she waited till the midnight stroke of the tall clock had ceased, before she ventured to move-then noiselessly and easily dropped from the low window to the ground. Hastening along the walk to the rear of the house, she found the servant waiting in the shadow of a group of trees. Without a word, she approached and laid her hand upon the saddle, ready for a light spring, when her eldest brother bounded from the house towards her. An altercation ensued, which threatened to arouse the household. Kathleen was terrified into obedience, lest her father should discover her intention. The hope gone, she listlessly suffered herself to be led back to her room, and sat down in that sort of torpor which is the result of hopeless grief. Vacantly she looked out upon the moonlight, while unbroken stillness returned. Her heart was looking through her eyes, far into the chamber of death, where an agonized mother watched by the bedside of her dying son. 
                  The burning fever had left him pale and helpless, though conscious. The palor of death was upon his noble features, and its icy chill was fast creeping closer to his heart. Upon his breast lay a few flowers-Kathleen's last gift-but he could see them still, and he kept his eyes upon them as though her loved face was shadowed forth among the drooping leaves. 
                  "Kathleen! Kathleen!" he still faintly called in a fast failing voice. "Has she come?" he whispered at each opening of the door. 
                  Gently and slowly death severed the cords that bind the spirit to the mortal. Soon the lips were silent, the eye fixed and vacant, and those who wept and watched knew that the soul-the light-the life, was gone. 
                  Kathleen still sat gazing from the open casement when the click and ring of hoofs, upon the paved road, aroused her. The sound came nearer and louder, till it abruptly ceased. A moment of stillness succeeded; then a knock, heavy and hard, upon the hall door, went echoing through the house, awaking every sleeper, and sending a sickening chill through Kathleen's heart. The door was opened; the words came distinct and loud, 
                  "Henry Arvine is dead!" 
                  "She may go now!" spoke Mr. Synton, but she heard no more, and fell senseless to the floor. Thus her father found her. He had not weighed her affections or her strength in the balance with his pride. 
                  Those only who know what real grief is, and who have no God to sustain them, can understand Kathleen's agony when awakened again to consciousness. It is true she communed with the church, on the strength of a thorough knowledge of the catechism, but, like a thousand others, bore the name of Christian, without possessing the spirit of piety. She had none of the confiding faith that can say and feel, "God doeth all things well;" nothing of heart religion to sustain her in that overwhelming sorrow. All was dreary and dark to her. 
                  She entreated to see Arvine's face once more before they buried him from her sight. Ready to gratify her wishes now, her father conveyed her to the house of mourning, and to the chamber of death. Arvine rested upon a stately bed, shaded by drapery that swept in snow-white folds from the lofty top to the floor. Bands and knots of white ribbon looped back the flowing curtains. There reposed all that remained of the loved Arvine. Cold, calm and white, he no longer reached forth his arms to welcome his beloved Kathleen-no endearing words-no look of unspeakable affection such as had always greeted her. She did not heed the last busy preparations, nor notice the white knots of mourning that were arranged for her; she saw nothing but the motionless form before her, while her heart seemed breaking for a look or word. With wild, tearless sobs she laid her head beside the dead, and cried, 
                  "Oh, speak to me once more, Arvine! I cannot live without you-take me with you! Don't leave me alone, but speak to me-look at me Arvine-I have come!" 
                  Her bewildered and touching entreaties wrung burning tears of sympathy from every listener. They tore her away, fearful for the effects of her sorrow, and bore her to a distant apartment, that she should not see him taken away. The active preparations for the funeral went on. Arvine was removed to his coffin, but, as they laid him there, a dark stream of blood gushed from his nostrils, and showered in glaring spots upon the white vest and broad ruffles of Mr. Synton, who stood close by. Exclamations of horror came from every lip; all the superstitious suggestions that are so abundant among the people of the green isle, rose vividly to each mind. Whispers floated about of the judgment that had come upon him for his obstinate pride, yet few censured or condemned him, since the unbounded authority of the parent, in every particular, was universally acknowledged. Scenes like the one which called them together now, were not uncommon. 
                  The pageant of the funeral, with its waving hearse-plumes, and long, white hat-bands and linen scarfs, passed by, leaving behind the usual monotonous routine so intolerable to the bereaved, when every accustomed occupation, every daily resort and familiar place, speaks continually of one who is never to come again. Kathleen returned to her quiet home, remembering it all as a dreadful dream, from which arose the distinct, ever-present image of Arvine's cold, marble-like face, as motionless as if it had been chiseled in stone. She walked alone in the old paths where they had strayed together, and sat weeping in the haunts they had frequented since childhood. The sunshine was a mockery to her mourning spirit; the songs of the birds brought no respondent melody from lips that ever before had teemed with musical mirth. The evening notes of the nightingale, the sound of the rivulet, the swelling chorus of the leaves, all whispered of Arvine-lost-gone forever! Wandering through the garden, she would imagine his voice calling her, and listen for his accustomed tomed footsteps, then with the memory of his buried form, throw herself despairingly upon the turf, and cry out, 
                  "Oh, Arvine, I cannot live without you!" sobbing as if her heart would break, and yearning for a sight of the face whose presence had been the sun of her life. Now that it was blotted out, what darkness rested everywhere! Poor Kathleen! she did not yet see God's admonition in her bereavement; she had yet many sorrows to endure in her long pilgrimage, before a Christ-renewed life could enable her to say, submissively and cheerfully, "Thy will be done." 
                
             
             
                
                
               Part Second. 
               COURTSHIP. 
               MARRIAGE. 
                
                   
                   
                  IV. COURTSHIP 
                  TIME will wear away the edge of the keenest sorrow, if it does not obliterate it entirely. We remember the dead with tears and agonizing regrets at first, longing to commune with the spirit that we persuade ourselves still dwells with us. At last, wearied with the unanswered love, or thinking of the departed as farther removed-as having traveled too far into eternity for us to follow, we cease to mourn for the lost, and cling to earthly objects again. 
                  Two years had lessened the bitterness of Kathleen's grief, but she was yet far from being a superabundantly mirthful girl, as at eighteen. There was an impress of her first trial plainly written in her saddened face and subdued manner, to those who had ever seen the animation of her earlier girlhood; and the touch of melancholy added to, rather than detracted from, her beauty. 
                  Indifferent to gayety, she rarely accompanied her father in the excursions formerly so well suited to her vivacity; large assemblies had few attractions for her; only the social gatherings, of a few choice friends, drew her from the seclusion that had been most in unison with her feelings since the loss of one whom she had worshiped with a love near to idolatry. Those who sought her hand were coldly repulsed; she disdained protestations of love that came from lips less noble, less devoted than his, upon whom she had lavished the wealth of her heart. One after another strove to win her, and each went away chagrined at her haughtiness and immovable decision. They had flattered, wooed and knelt before her queenly coldness, without gaining ing so much as a smile in return for honeyed words. 
                  Sometimes her father remonstrated, or her mother reproved her, while one other looked on with secret satisfaction. That other was Dermot Neilson, who had been a frequent and familiar guest at Mr. Synton's for more than a year. He had been repulsed in his turn, but to Kathleen's surprise he did not in the least take it to heart; he seemed to forget that he had ever expressed his admiration, and took no notice whatever of her neglect during his visits. At first she avoided him, but his cheerful presence in the family, and unobtrusive attentions to her, soon disarmed her; more than once she found herself attracted to the circle gathered about him, and listened with interest to his entertaining conversation. In spite of herself, she laughed, too, with the rest at his humorous moods. 
                  True to the impulses of a kind nature, which eve prompts genuine politeness, he cared for her comfort in a way that had its charm, yet such as the presence of any lady would have demanded. Kathleen noticed it, and with the inconsistency of a woman used to admiration, was chagrined at the apparent withdrawal of his devotion, yet would have been indignant had he continued to manifest it. But her especial dislike for him arose from the abrupt and matter-of-fact manner in which his early addresses had been paid. The absence of flattery, entreaty and passionate admiration, in his attentions, represented him as cold and insincere to her; she felt annoyed, too, at the cool criticism he had from the first bestowed upon her faults, and, above all, his singular disregard of her indifference and marked displeasure was unpardonable. 
                  Under other circumstances, Kathleen might have admired him. There was no fault to be found with his commanding height, and his face, if not handsome, was striking in its noble-hearted expression. His complexion was relieved lieved from feminine fairness by a ruddy tinge of sun-burn, except the upper part of his brow, from which was thrown back a profusion of light brown hair. Full, blue eyes, a nose that indicated strength of character, though not within the line of beauty, and a mouth, about which lurked a pleasant playfulness, altogether constituted a face, and manifested qualities that must have attracted Kathleen, but for her wounded vanity. 
                  Dermot Neilson was no sighing, despairing lover; and thus, in his own opinion at least, he sacrificed neither pride nor dignity in his persevering determination to win Kathleen. On the contrary, he watched her with the satisfaction that a spider evinces when a fly alights upon his web, and he retires at a comfortable distance to keep an eye upon the struggles which are sure to entangle the victim more securely. 
                  One evening, Dermot followed Kathleen to the garden, where she was strolling by herself. He found her seated in the arbor, in a melancholy mood, and took an unproffered seat beside her. 
                  "Kathleen, why do you continue to grieve? It will not bring Arvine back. You might as well be cheerful, for your own sake as for others," said he, with more philosophy than feeling. 
                  She did not reply, but her cheeks crimsoned. 
                  "I have told you before, Kathleen, that I love you," continued he, in a softened voice. "I only wish I might secure your happiness and cheerfulness now-your love I would hope for afterwards." 
                  "Mr. Neilson, I have told you not to refer to that subject again. How many times shall I repeat, that I do not, and never will, love you? Have you no regard for what I say?" said she, measuring every word, and looking directly in his eyes, while her own flashed with earnestness. 
                  "Certainly, the utmost respect; but you do not know yourself-you will love me," returned he, emphatically. 
                   
                  "I won't! I hate you! Will that do?" she angrily exclaimed, rising from her seat. 
                  "No, that will not do! I will seek none other than yourself, and shall wait till you do love me," said he, with undisturbed self-possession, and a playful smile lurking about his mouth. 
                  Kathleen's eyes fairly shot the anger she felt at his cool pertinacity; she turned to go to the house, but stopped again and asked, with curling lip, 
                  "Do you regard me as a child?" 
                  "No, assuredly not," said he, rising and approaching her respectfully. "You are a noble girl, Kathleen, and I admire you all the more for the rare devotion with which you cherish the memory of one who is gone. Yet it cannot always be so, and I hope to win that love when it returns to things earthly. It is worth struggling for." 
                  "It is useless to persist. I never can love you," replied she coldly, but with lessened anger ger, as they walked on. She did not perceive the smile that resolutely implied "you will." Still offended with his presumptuous avowal, she maintained silence till they reached the house. 
                  "I will not detain you longer," said Mr. Neilson abruptly, "I go to Belfast to-morrow, and do not know when I may see you again. My adieu to your parents if you please." Before Kathleen could recover from the surprise of the announcement, he was gone. 
                  "Well, at least I shall be relieved now!" said she to herself in a congratulatory tone as she went in and joined the family circle. 
                  If she did feel a sense of relief at his departure, she soon began to miss his lively visits which, with their frequency and the cheerfulness they infused, had contributed more to her enjoyment than she was at all aware of. There was a fascination in his calm, determinate mode of making love that unconsciously interested Kathleen, notwithstanding her anger. As week after week passed away, she began to speculate upon his long absence; it was impossible not to be reminded of him at the time of his accustomed visits. 
                  "Mother, I wish Dermot Neilson was here to spend the evening with us," exclaimed she one afternoon, impatiently throwing aside her employment. "He is very entertaining when he chooses to be." 
                  "I thought thee disliked him," said her mother, in a tone of surprise. 
                  "I do dislike him, for he is always parading my faults, and ends with insisting I shall love him. I will not be wooed in that way." 
                  "Well, thee need not get angry about it, nor wish him here, for thee would treat him ill if he came. He speaks well if he chides thy faults, Kathleen. Thee would do wisely to trust thy heart with him." 
                  "No, indeed! He is too conceited in presuming and insisting that I shall love him. Not I, indeed!" replied she, tossing her head and compressing her lips scornfully. She heartily wished for his presence now, that she might renew the spiteful tte  tte of the garden. 
                  She was not an ill-tempered girl, but had been a little spoiled by the adulation received in her girlhood, and the strange mode of Mr. Neilson's procedure vexed her thoroughly, while at the same time it had a novel flattery that secretly pleased her, even if she would not acknowledge it to herself. 
                  "Kathleen, what say you to a trip to Lough Erne with me to-morrow?" said her father cheerfully as he came in from his weekly round among the tenantry. 
                  "Go, Kathleen, thee will find the Lough very beautiful, and thee will be better for the journey," added her mother; but Kathleen needed no persuasion and the matter was soon decided. 
                  Early on the following morning, they were equipped for their three days' excursion. Kathleen leen recovered something of her old cheerfulness, as, mounted upon her neglected pony, she sallied out in the pure morning air. She gaily galloped along at her father's side; sometimes turned from the paved roads into green lanes and by-ways, or, leaping the hedges and walls, skimmed over the green meadows; and sometimes she slowly followed the windings of a rivulet, or forded a stream, as her fancy happened to lead. She was wondrously cheerful that day. Her father, who had grown irritable and gloomy since her bereavement, caught her spirit and responded joyfully to her happy mood. 
                  "Let us go for Minnie Sullivan. Wouldn't it be charming for her to ride with us to Lough Erne?" almost laughed Kathleen, as she turned with dilated eyes, and face glowing with exercise, to her father. 
                  "We shall not even reach Clogher to night if we ramble so much out of our way," expostulated Mr. Synton. 
                   
                  "Gratify me this once-she will not detain us long, and we will ride all the faster," urged Kathleen. 
                  "Very well, it shall be as you choose," and accordingly their horses' heads were turned into a road at right angles with the one they had pursued. An hour's ride brought them to Minnie's house; a neat, rural cottage that seemed the nestling-place of peace. Minnie herself appeared in the doorway, then come forward from the vine-covered portico and glided across the greensward to greet her gladly recognized friend. The errand was speedily made known. Minnie looked up from under her long lashes with a mock solemnity and asked, 
                  "Am I to go on foot? I've no frisky pony like yours, nor a good fairy to serve me up a coach and six." 
                  "Ride behind father. You have a pillion, I know," replied Kathleen, smilingly, and admiring her lovely friend as she stood there hesitatingly tingly. Minnie's eyes were of the soul-full kind-deep and tender; one could not look into them once and forget them; she had a way too of bending her head slightly and looking from under her finely lined eye-brows, that was irresistible. Her complexion was beautifully delicate and transparent, and her hair almost flaxen, but she was saved from being a beauty by an unfortunate, upward curve of the nose, not unpleasantly perceptible, however, except in profile. 
                  "Come, Minnie, make haste. We have no time to lose. I will not dismount either, or your ladyship will take more time to get ready." 
                  Without further words, Minnie hastened away to make preparations. Meanwhile her mother, a stately looking woman, came out to offer civilities and make inquiries, while Mr. Synton stood at the gate with the bridle over his arm. 
                  Minnie appeared in due time, equipped becomingly in a short, green, riding dress, hat and plumes. Mr. Synton leaped into the saddle, stooped low, threw one arm round Minnie's waist and, by an adroit movement, swung her safely and firmly behind him. With hasty adieus they were off again, the dresses fluttering and plumes waving as they rode rapidly away. 
                  A night spent at Clogher, and the following sunrise found them on their way to Lough Erne. The smooth highways, for which Ireland, as well as England, is noted, led between meadows or cultivated fields, through towns and hamlets, past the ruins of old castles, or under the walls of a convent; but the fancies of the little party led them aside from the beaten track for the sake of climbing the occasional hills in the less frequented roads. From these ranges of hills, they looked down upon an apparently level stretch of country dotted here and there with villages, traced the bright windings of a stream, and speculated upon the uses of the mysterious round towers, one of which loomed up in the distance with its hidden secrets still safe from the generations that now surrounded it. When the travelers descended the hills, the plain assumed an undulating surface that successively revealed portions of the scenery which had been mapped out in a beautiful whole from the loftier heights. As they rode along, Mr. Synton entertained his young companions with old Irish legends associated with places they passed, and pointed out the raths, or moats, in which the fairies were said to live. These fairies the peasant believes to be fallen angels, whose punishment is limited to wanderings upon the earth. If a cloud of dust sweeps along the road, he will take off his hat and say, "God speed ye, gintlemen," believing they journey from place to place in their uncertain vehicles. 
                  "Who knows but we shall see the famous Leprechaun on one of the islands in the Lough!" said Mr. Synton, smiling. "They say he makes it his home there, but as Shane O'Neilly insists. 'he's sich a bit of an ould man that it's no wondther he niver could clap eyes on him.' He solemnly assured me that his grandfather saw the little brogue-maker there, and that he wore a 'cocked hat on his head an' a dudeen in his mouth, smokin' away; an' a little bit ov an apron on him, an' a pair o' silver buckles in his shoes, that a'most covered his feet, they war so big, an' he workin' away as hard as iver he could, heelin' a little pair o' pumps.' You must listen for the tick-tack of his wee hammer, Minnie," added Mr. Synton, laughing heartily. 
                  Amusing themselves thus, the time went rapidly, and each made an exclamation of surprise as they unexpectedly came in sight of Lough Erne. Their surprise and pleasure were doubled, when on arriving, they found Dermot Neilson there, just preparing for a boat excursion. 
                  "I thought you were at Belfast," exclaimed Kathleen, with increased color, as she received a cold recognition from her repulsed friend. 
                   
                  "I finished my business and found occasion to come here," replied he, adding a few complimentary inquiries. 
                  "So he passed Armagh without visiting us," thought Kathleen, not a litile piqued at the circumstance. She preserved a proud, distant demeanor towards him, and would have rejected his gallant offer of assistance in the day's excursion, but for her father's ready acceptance. 
                  "He accompanies us for the sake of Minnie," thought she again, as she watched with increasing depression of spirits the glances of admiration cast upon her lovely friend. She withdrew herself more to her father's companionship, which he attributed to her dislike for Mr. Neilson, while the simple-hearted Minnie wondered where her good spirits had flown. 
                  All day they rambled along the wild, rocky shores of Lough Erne, or skimmed over the waters in a light skiff, touching at the wooded islands and looking in upon their famed retreats, listening in spite of their unbelief for the ticktack of the little Leprechaun's hammer. Most of the many islets that gemmed the broad Lough had their legends or holy resorts, whither the superstitious peasantry and misled Catholics made frequent pilgrimages. Before nightfall, the boat was turned towards Enniskillen, a town built upon the banks of the narrow channel that divides Lough Erne into two sheets of water. Minnie dipped her hand into the waves that rippled before the prow of the boat and chatted gayly with Dermot Neilson. Kathleen sat aloof, looking quietly at the shores as they passed along, sad and scarcely understanding why she should care for the marked slight shown her, which, after all, was the realization of her often-expressed wish that Mr. Neilson "would leave her to herself." But now that a rival intervened, she began to discover him to be an attractive, agreeable and graceful suitor. She was not sorry when they reached Enniskillen and bade good night to her inconstant lover. 
                  The journey home, the following day, found Kathleen in no better mood. She rode beside her father; Minnie's pillion had been transferred to Mr. Neilson's horse, and she rode merrily behind him, with one arm clinging round him for support. She was safely escorted to her home, the remainder of the party continuing their way to Armagh. 
                  "Well, Kathleen, did thee think Lough Erne as fair as I said thee would find it?" smilingly inquired her mother as she came in wearied with her ride. 
                  "Yes, very pleasant," remarked she indifferently and with none of the enthusiasm she usually expressed after such an excursion. 
                  "Kathleen's trip was spoiled by the company of a disagreeable friend," suggested her father; but for some reason she was the more out of humor at the remark. 
                  "What a fool I have been to loose him!" said she honestly to herself, when she had retired to the quiet of her own room. 
                
                
                   
                  V. MARRIAGE. 
                  AN unclouded sun shone cheerfully upon hill and heath, upon flowing streams, upon the furze-flowers and fairy-bells, the green, velvety grass, and the rustling trees of Armagh. Nature, with one of her genial lessons, gave back the golden rays from the bosom of the stream, the flowers opened and reflected the light from their dewy petals, the abundant foliage of the trees glistened and fluttered gladly, as if eager to speak thanks to the warm, bright rays that kissed them. The sunshine fell pleasantly upon the trees that were grouped about Mr. Synton's dwelling, casting cool shades upon the lawn, and dancing shadows upon the white walls, and streamed in a little way at the open door. Sunshine and shadow were without-shadow and sunshine within. 
                  Unusual activity pervaded the household that morning. Servants hastened hither and thither, chattering significantly; doors opened and shut with noisy haste after them; the various apartments wore a look of studied arrangement; even the ancient, lazy puss was stirred out of her morning nap, and went mewing about the house as if wondering what all the stir meant. A glance into Kathleen's own room, just back of the parlor, betrayed it all. A high, tent-bedstead, shrouded in snow-white drapery, looped back far enough to display the quaintly-carved posts, stood in the centre of the room. Upon it lay a carefully assorted wardrobe, and near by were grouped Mrs. Synton, Kathleen, and Minnie Sullivan. Kathleen sat upon a low chair, and Minnie stood behind her nervously occupied in frizzing and powdering her hair after ter the most approved method. The placidity of the Quaker mother was for once overcome. One moment she stood with meekly folded hands before her daughter, watching the progress of her toilette, and the next came nearer to adjust something that did not quite please her. 
                  "Minnie, thee will get it too wide," suggested she, as Minnie put the finishing strokes upon the enormous frizzed puffs that stood out upon each side of Kathleen's fair, open brow. 
                  "Oh no! they certainly are not as wide as my own," replied she, glancing in the mirror opposite her. Kathleen looked in the glass for herself, and turned away quite satisfied. 
                  The bridal dress was quickly donned. Hoops had given place to long, flowing robes, not unlike the fashion of our own day. The silk bodice, sharp and laced across the front, lay open at the throat, where it expanded into a wide, standing collar that enclosed an immense lace frill. Her feet were encased in high-heeled silk shoes; the great, round hat, that completed her attire, was ornamented with bows of remarkable size and large bunches of white flowers. Minnie's costume was finished with a similar, high-crowned, circular hat. 
                  While the last, trembling arrangements of the bridal party are being made, we will seek the shadow that came in with the sunshine. In a darkened chamber Mr. Synton lay ill, partly from grief at Kathleen's intended marriage. Her presence had become necessary to him; and aside from that, he had never looked upon Dermot Neilson with the wish or expectation of receiving him as the husband of his idolized daughter. 
                  Kathleen had really become warmly attached to her determined lover, and, when her willingness to share her life with his was made known to her father, he was stunned with surprise. 
                  "I thought you detested him, Kathleen. You are very singular. No; I shall not give my consent. You can do better than that. I have no more to say upon the matter." 
                  Kathleen's and her mother's entreaties were of no avail; he had but one, unchangeable reply. 
                  "Mother, shall I yield to his wishes? How can I obey him and endure again that suffering which he imposed upon me once?" asked Kathleen, her face, manner and voice expressing her contending emotions. 
                  "My daughter," mildly and sweetly returned her mother, "he does not forbid thy marriage. My blessing, at least, will follow thee." 
                  In a measure consoled, Kathleen obeyed the dictates of her heart, and the preparations for a quiet, unostentatious wedding went on. 
                  This was the shadow that darkened the bridal morning. 
                  Dermot Neilson, at rest after his persevering success, waited with dignified composure to receive and lead away the prize which he had so faithfully striven to win. His face lost none of its attractiveness in the surroundings of his profusely powdered hair, so arranged as to add to his height. In the eyes of later generations, the addition of a hat would have been an unnecessary incumbrance, yet the wide-brimmed one, jauntily turned up at the sides, which he held in his hand, promised ample protection to his powdered locks. Broad ruffles, long waistcoat, high-collared, long-bodied coat, the rounded flaps falling to the bend of the knee; fine ruffles at the wrist; short-clothes and silk stockings; square, high-heeled shoes with massive buckles, made up the costume; not an unbecoming one to his finely proportioned form and commanding height. 
                  He paced back and forth in wise meditation till the door of Kathleen's apartment opened. Mrs. Synton led Kathleen forward, placed her hand in Dermot's, and fervently blessed them in a trembling voice; they then went together to the chamber where her father lay, enfeebled by illness, gloomy and depressed. 
                   
                  "Father, I have come for your blessing," said Kathleen, approaching the bedside. He looked reproachfully at her, sighed deeply and replied in a firm voice, 
                  "I will neither bless you nor curse you!" 
                  Kathleen burst into tears. 
                  "I would not go from you thus, father, but I obeyed you once; you know with what a long, bitter struggle. I have not courage to suffer so again. You may yet bestow your blessing," said she, slowly moving away. He did not look after her, but turned his face to the wall and wept. 
                  An hour afterwards, the bridal party stood in the midst of assembled friends, before the altar of the Church of the Seceders, and a simple, solemn rite made the subdued, pale Kathleen, the wife of Dermot Neilson. 
                  A year afterwards her father was sleeping in the grave. 
                
             
             
                
                
               Part Third. 
               BATTLE-SCENE. 
               THE BURGLAR. 
                
                   
                   
                  VI. BATTLE-SCENE. 
                  "WHAT now? More trouble from those Catholic rebels! By all their saints, I wish that all of them were pinioned in their own purgatory! Now for the regimentals, Kathleen; run Terence and bid Sloan bring round old Prince in a twinkling!" said Col. Neilson, starting up from a comfortable breakfast at the sound of the alarm that pealed out from the bells of the neighboring town. He stood a moment at a sun-lit window, with one hand shading his eyes, looking intently towards the town as if he might see what troubled the citizens, or, perhaps, in expectation of seeing one of the many devastating fires that, since the beginning of the rebellion lion, had left smouldering heaps in every direction, in token of hatred and strife. But none the wiser for the survey, he turned from the window, full of impatience. 
                  "Bless your heart, Kathleen, no need to rub that blade brighter," said he, as he took a glittering sword from her busy hands, and dropped it with a ringing, rattling sound, into the sheath he had just belted at his side. 
                  His wife's trembling fingers adjusted an orange knot upon the breast of his coat; it had been the badge of the Protestant party since the reign of William and Mary. Kathleen gave a few polishing strokes to his soldierly equipments, while he slashed a bright, silken scarf across his broad shoulders, rapidly exchanging words at the same time. 
                  "What could you do, Kathleen, if I found the need of enlisting Sloan among my men? Would you dare remain alone here?" 
                  "Dare?" answered she, with flashing eyes and courageous dignity. "You shall see, Dermot, how bravely I can defend our home if occasion demands it." 
                  "May God preserve you, my Kathleen," he fervently exclaimed, folding her in his arms an instant; then, giving a hearty, loving farewell to the children, he turned from them to mount his favorite, glossy-black Prince, that for some moments had been impatiently circling about the faithful Sloan. Sloan stood, hat in hand, at a little distance from the steps, holding the bridle. 
                  Col. Neilson gave a few directions and cautions in case of long absence, took the reins from the servant, sprang into the saddle, galloped down the lawn road and through the open gate towards the town. 
                  The tall, red-headed Sloan, whose powerful form suggested the strength of a Samson, stood with folded arms looking after his master and the fiery steed he rode with martial air, and longed to follow them. 
                   
                  "I'd like to have a fist at the fellows; I'd gi'e thim sich a bateing as they'd niver seen the like," said he, with a broad grin that displayed a substantial row of white teeth, at the same time rolling up the sleeves of his frieze jacket, and making various threatening gestures with his brawny, muscular arms. 
                  "You may yet have occasion to test your courage," remarked Kathleen, smiling at his formidable gestures and greatly doubting if his bravery would outlive a contest. She still stood upon the steps, watching the receding form of her husband. Now and then, horsemen passed along the highway, singly or in companies of three and four; often "jaunting cars" went trundling by, filled with volunteers who wore the distinctive orange badge, and were armed with weapons of every size and make. 
                  Some of the principal members of a league, known as the Society of United Irishmen, having been arrested on the detection of their secret cret object, which was the separation of Ireland from England with the assistance of France, they were obliged, either to abandon their project, or rise in open rebellion. The latter course was quickly chosen, and immediately the whole country was in arms. The old hatred, that had existed between the Catholics and Protestants during the contest between James II., and William, Prince of Orange, revived again, with additional fury and bitterness. The Catholics were exasperated at the long continued restrictions laid upon them by the penal code, which deprived them of equal privileges with the Protestants, though they were far superior in numbers. 
                  Ireland was obliged to rely mostly upon her own resources in quelling this rebellion, as the English troops had been drawn off for other service. Every citizen, capable of bearing arms, took part in the general war; this was a necessity, as well as a means of mutual revenge, since parties of frantic, bigoted men prowled nightly about isolated dwellings, or through the villages and towns, ready to fire them at any favorable opportunity. None could trust his Catholic neighbor or friend; each stood ready to guard his fireside, or to grasp his weapons and go forth at the sound of the alarm bells that announced a fresh insurrection. 
                  In scenes like these, we again find Dermot Neilson and Kathleen, after a lapse of nearly thirteen years. They occupied the old homestead of his father, in the vicinity of Armagh, but in an opposite direction from Kathleen's early home. They bore their years well and happily. Five or six beautiful children enlivened and graced their fireside. 
                  The house was square, solid-built, with immense doors, deep windows, and huge wooden shutters. It stood upon an elevation that sloped in velvety greenness down to the highway, and commanded a fine view of the neighboring town, upon the east side; upon every other it looked out on green fields and orchards, with their never-failing stone walls and thick hawthorne hedges. At the west of it, and farther back from the road was a pleasant and spacious stone house, occupied by a much-prized, wealthy neighbor, though a Catholic. Only a hedge divided the yards. A small garden lay in the rear of the house, gay with a profusion of flowers, of which Kathleen was passionately fond. 
                  From the beginning of the rebellion, Colonel Neilson had the command of a regiment of volunteers, and had several times been engaged in skirmishes. A sort of Indian warfare had been kept up, without any important engagement. On the present occasion, a somewhat formidable body of Catholics were marching towards Armagh; for this emergency the citizens were called out. 
                  Two or three hours of suspense and anxiety had passed after Colonel Neilson's hasty departure ure, when a messenger arrived with the intelligence, and demanded Sloan's services. The whole household was startled at the exciting news, but Kathleen calmly made the necessary preparations. Sloan gloried in his strength, and went through the motions of fight, talking meantime with his imaginary foe; it was not without much ado that Kathleen succeeded in placing safely in his hands the trusty gun that seemed likely to give vent to the teeming patriotism of its holder, before he should get among those for whom its contents were intended. 
                  "Be quiet, Sloan, or you'll shoot us. Take care the rebels don't see you beating a retreat instead of the enemy," said the eldest of the children, the womanly Azile, who in some vexation at his boasting and sundry evolutions, was doing her best to fasten the important orange knot upon the breast of his jacket. 
                  "An' d'ye think I'd be running away wi' mesilf, Miss Azile? Ye're too bad, altogither-" 
                   
                  "Halloa!" shouted the impatient messenger, from without, who waited in the saddle for the recruit. 
                  Sloan rushed headlong into the yard, and without further words sprang up behind the horseman and galloped away, without hearing the "God speed you" that followed him. 
                  "We are all alone, mother. What if those pikemen should come?" asked the younger ones, frightened into stillness by all they had heard, with open ears and eyes. 
                  "I would fasten you children up somewhere, and play soldier myself. There is a good sword left yet," said Kathleen, with a voice calmer than her feelings, while she endeavored to return to employments for which she had no thoughts. 
                  The frightened children grouped together in one of the low, wide windows that looked out upon the highway, watching the passers along the road. Their fears were presently forgotten, and, little by little, they ventured upon the lawn, where manifold games soon absorbed their indefinite terrors. Several hours passed thus, when a scream from one of the number directed the attention of the rest to long lines of soldiers and horsemen, winding along the road. 
                  "Mother! Mother!" screamed one little fellow, his face expressing the utmost fright; and gasping for breath as he ran and threw himself into her arms for protection. 
                  "The pikemen are coming to kill us," exclaimed the pale-faced Mary, weak with terror. 
                  "No such thing! They are our men!" shouted the manly Terence, pointing towards the town, from which direction they were marching. This was evident enough to the alarmed mother, when she came out among the children, and remained with them till the several companies had passed. Sunset tipped the polished arms with burning light before all had gone, with ominous ous tread, over the low range of hills, beyond which the little army disappeared. 
                  Those who had watched their movements remained listening to the thick, rumbling sound that still came back to them from the paved highway. The mother thought with trembling of the many who measured a death-tread, and shuddered for the sake of one who was among them. Endeavoring to shake off the gloomy misgivings that crept over her in the coming twilight, she called the children cheerfully, and sent them to get ready for dream-land in her own apartment, which, with its motherly look and associations, had the power to charm away half the fears of the little ones. The blue chintz hangings about the bed gave them a sense of hidden security; they nestled quietly down behind the dropped curtains, but no sooner were they alone, than mysterious whispers among them of the dreaded pikemen, awoke all their fears again; they crept softly out of bed, clinging ing to each other, fairly scrambled for the door, and, by the time it was opened, screamed out in real terror. 
                  Once more the mother ressured them, and now that windows and doors were securely fastened, she trimmed a dim light, and sat quietly near them, listening to their sweet voices in their soothing, nightly prayer of "Our Father;" then lulled them to sleep with one of her sweetly-sung hymns. Deep sleep quickly dispelled dreams as well as fears; they had no thoughts for the battle that fiercely raged beyond the hills. The gloomy boom of cannons came rolling and echoing along at intervals with the sure tidings of death. Kathleen could no longer repress her anxiety for the result, and her aversion to the depressing stillness and loneliness about her. Impelled by the feeling that urges one to a scene of excitement or danger, she arose, placed the night-lamp in safety, gazed a moment upon the children to assure herself of their sound slumbers, and, wrapping a light shawl about her, glided noiselessly from the quiet room. She passed through the wide hall to the wide entrance that opened into the garden, walked rapidly along the main walk to a gap in the hedge dividing it from the adjoining orchard, and fled fearlessly along in the deep shadow of the trees. The sounds of battle grew louder and nearer as she hastened over the fields, round the base of one of the low hills into a quiet, lonely glen, and crossed a rivulet that watered it-the way faintly lighted by a bright blaze flaming up from behind the hills which still hid the stretch of lowland, where the scene of strife was being frightfully enacted. 
                  "With a few bounds, she disentangled herself from the long grass bordering the brook, and reached the stone wall that skirted the road. Climbing to the top, she looked beyond upon the strange scene. A field of yellow grain waved on the slope across the highway, and at its foot lay the battle-field, alive with brutal, human passions, growling artillery, and shouts mingled with the stunning shocks of cannon and musketry. Here and there well disciplined troops wheeled round in orderly contest, but for the most part, confusion prevailed. Hatred between the two parties was too keen for deliberate movements. Hand to hand, in deadly struggle, was the general choice. Blinding flashes from the artillery mingled with the steady brilliancy of a flaming building near by, which cast a lurid glare upon the fierce faces, upturned in combat at one moment-the next, trampled under foot by those who eagerly pressed forward from behind them. 
                  The deceptive light and shadow upon the undulating hills, towered them to greater height. The grain, upon the lighted slopes, lay in sheets of flaming yellow; black, curling clouds of powder-fumed smoke, rolled heavily up the hill-sides and hung over the field of blood, where every object was tinged with the crimson light shed from the columns of flame, wreathing upward on the other side of the battle-field. 
                  Kathleen looked on with a fascinated gaze though filled with horror at the sight of fast falling victims in the bloody strife, till her quick ear caught the sound of groans of distress. After a single moment of hesitation, she obeyed her impulse, and cautiously crossed the road. She was soon carefully laying back the tall grain and finding her way through it to the spot whence the sound proceeded. A dark object lay upon the ground, from which she shrank at the first glance, but a distressed entreaty recalled her. 
                  "Water! Give me water!" was the thick utterance of the wounded man who had dragged himself there to die. Kathleen's first thought was of the rivulet she had passed in the glen, and she stooped to find the soldier's hat, intending to fill it, but it was gone. 
                   
                  "Water! oh, water!" he groaned again. 
                  Eager to relieve his agony, she unloosed the powder-flask fastened in his belt, emptied it, and fled back to the cool stream. Kathleen was quick-footed, and had long ago learned to leap the stone walls; she required but a few moments to fill the flask and return to the wounded man, who eagerly drained it. His parched lips and throat were cooled with the grateful draught; and the excessive pain of his wounds was relieved when Kathleen bound them carefully with her handkerchief and shawl, torn in strips. His thanks were mingled with prayers to the Virgin and execrations upon his foes, till his voice grew faint and husky. Again Kathleen filled the flask, placed it beside him, and turned to go, lest she should be endangered by the occasional shot that fell near them. But, hesitating, she asked of Colonel Neilson's safety. Epithets expressive of hatred were the only reply. 
                   
                  "I am his wife," exclaimed Kathleen, indignantly, and turned again to leave him. 
                  "The holy mother bless ye're kind heart, he's a brave mon, an' a good sthroke. He was there wi' himself, sure, for me two eyes saw him." 
                  The shouts of victory from the Orangemen, that came up the hill-side, cut short what he would have added, and changed his words to angry vociferations. Kathleen, fearing lest retreating or scattered soldiers would intercept her return, gave one glance at the smoking field and lessening fire-light, and made good her flight. She bounded over the fences, through the glen, across the fields to her home, where a profound quiet rested upon everything in and around the peaceful dwelling, in strong contrast with the frightful scenes from which she had just fled. Passing noiselessly in, and fastening the door behind her, she found her way back to the dimly lighted chamber, where the little ones still luxuriated in undisturbed, sweet sleep. Throwing herself down beside the two who breathed fragrantly upon her own pillow, she tried to calm herself to sleep and forgetfulness; but the cries of the wounded were still ringing in her ears; the sights and sounds of battle were too vividly and frightfully present for her eyelids to close, till the early morning hours, with ressuring light, calmed her excited imagination. Then she fell into a deep, dreamless slumber. 
                  Hours had passed when, suddenly waking into the broad daylight, her eyes met those of her husband, who bent kindly over her. She started up in surprise, and anxiously inquired if he had escaped wounds. 
                  "Safe and sound, Kathleen-not even the honor of a scratch. A sky-light in my hat, and bullet tracks in my coat, are all that I can boast of," was his laughing reply. 
                  He then told her of the defeat of the Catholics, and of the arrival of French troops at Killala, where the rebels were gathering from all quarters. Lord Cornwallis was, however, on the march, with a strong body of English troops, and the volunteers of Armagh were to join him at a stated town. But a few hours remained for rest and preparation; accordingly, Kathleen busied her wifely fingers in renewing Colonel Neilson's dusty and tarnished equipments, sadly thinking of the long separation, and of the wearisome marches and fierce battles through which he must pass, perhaps at the cost of his life. The thought was more unendurable after witnessing the frightful scenes of the previous night. 
                  Partings in old times were more serious events than in these days of lightning and steam. Knowing the long silence that must ensue, and full of gloomy forebodings, Kathleen clung to her husband, overcome with grief at the separation. He could offer few words of comfort, but knelt before God and implored protection over those whom he left-the God upon whom Kathleen had not yet learned to rely-then tore himself from the weeping family, mounted his horse and rode quickly away, waving back a farewell with his hand before he disappeared from sight, while Kathleen stood watching him, and striving to restrain the tears that continually blinded her. When she could no longer see him, she yielded to her tears. But her spirit was proud and courageous; she soon turned family-ward to dispel her unhappiness in its cares and duties. 
                  A week of quiet home-life had gone without anything unusual to interrupt the daily routine of affairs. The bustling activity which invariably pervades a thrifty household on a bright morning, had settled into a pleasant stillness. The doors had done opening and shutting; the quaint, high-backed chairs, the circular table rubbed to a faultless polish, and the various parlor ornaments were suffered to rest after a half-hour's dance with the duster; the heavy wooden shutters were partly closed, and a general neatness, coolness and quiet succeeded. The children were at play in the garden; Joe was sailing a miniature boat in a tub of water, and talking of the sea to his younger brother, Terence; and Mary, frail and timid, sat beside their mother in her own apartment, opposite the parlor, and opening into the same hall. 
                  As they sat thus, a quick, bounding footstep along the walk, a figure glancing past the windows, a rushing sound in the hall, were but an instant's impression, and Kathleen saw a deathly-pale, terrified face, with distended eyes, dart past the open door, looking towards her. Before she had time to rise, the figure returned-a shoeless, hatless, shaggy-headed man, with torn, dusty garments, as if he had just escaped a struggle. 
                  "Save-hide me! They'll murther the soul of me!" he hoarsely cried, looking and moving wildly about the room for a hiding place. 
                   
                  Kathleen sprang toward the door, selected a ponderous key from a number that hung behind it, and bidding him follow her, went speedily along the hall, up the winding staircase to a door at the left of the landing that opened into a narrow passage, leading to a large store-room. This room extended over the rear of the house, from which it also had access, and, as was the case with every other dwelling, was used as a kind of store-house. Long rows of hams, bacon, pork, cheese, jars of butter, and well-filled barrels and bins were arranged in perfect order. After she had unlocked and thrown open the door, Kathleen stood a moment, as if hesitating where to place the fugitive, while he immediately crept behind a row of barrels. 
                  "That won't do. Come here!" said she, vigorously piling back the contents of an apple bin. 
                  He obeyed her, and dove down among the hard, glossy fruit, while she as quickly tumbled it over him, concealing him completely in the midst of the fragrant bin. Smoothing the apples as they lay before being disturbed, she turned away, locked the door, fled back to her room, and restored the key to its accustomed nail. Mary sat there, still looking intently towards the door, pale and agitated. 
                  "Don't look so frightened, child, or you'll betray it all. They must not see you thus," said her mother, lifting her gently and laying her upon the bed; but she had hardly placed her there, before the rush of feet and angry voices resounded in the hall. Three men, without ceremony, approached her apartment with boisterous inquiries. 
                  "Where is that Catholic rebel? Out with him, if ye've harbored the like o'him!" roughly spoke a heavy-built, scowling, brutal looking man. Kathleen advanced a little towards them with an undaunted air, and replied calmly but with much firmness of voice and manner, 
                   
                  "You address me rudely, sir. I have no further information to give you." 
                  "Madam, interfered a tall, square-shouldered man with fierce, gray eyes, "Madam, we are in pursuit of a man who was seen to enter the house. We shall search, if you have concealed him," said he with a clear, rolling accent, and a deferential air, that bespoke his superiority over his companions. 
                  "Search as much as you please. I am no Catholic," replied she, indifferently. 
                  "Wait a bit, till we find him, an' I'll gi'e him a taste o' steel. He slipped out o' me hand, or he'd been slapeing as harmless as a doove yester' eve," said the first speaker, clasping the handle of the long, knife-like weapon in his belt, while he cast a suspicious glance around the apartment. 
                  "A poor cause that needs such vindicators! You might better defend your country against invaders, than to hunt down the vanquished, and murder in cold blood!" exclaimed Kathleen, unable to restrain her indignation at his brutality. 
                  He darted a fierce glance at her, and turned with the others to search the premises, determined not to be daunted by a woman, yet somewhat ashamed of his misdirected patriotism. Every room was thoroughly ransacked, but in spite of their faithfulness in peering into every suspicious looking nook, no fugitive was to be found. They were sure of his presence, and the self-constituted sentinel, without, was quite as certain he had not made his escape. Finding their way at last to the store-room, and trying in vain to gain entrance, the fierce-eyed man returned to Kathleen, while the other one remained grumbling before the door. 
                  "The key of the upper room, if ye plase, madam," said the intruder. He was provoked at the cool pertinacity with which she pointed to the bunch of keys, leaving him to select at his leisure, and the implied threat conveyed in the words that accompanied the movement. 
                  "Take it if you choose, but remember you are searching the house of one of your officers, without leave." 
                  "Who?" said he, looking surprised. 
                  "Colonel Neilson," she answered, and withdrew her attention to Mary, who really seemed an invalid. 
                  The man hesitated a moment, then stepped forward and took the keys, and returning to his companion, consulted upon further measures. But they had gone too far to be foiled in their errand, and opening the door, entered. All was quiet. They looked behind every article that could afford concealment, and left no barrel or chest unopened. The hunted man lay half smothered in his strange prison, breathless, and almost paralyzed with fear, as he heard the voices of his enemies close by, uttering bitter invectives, and felt their hands on every shivering nerve, as they rolled over the apples that covered him, to select a few of the choicest to console their disappointment. He dared not move till long after their retreating footsteps sounded along the hall. They slowly returned to the lower apartments, looking in here and there, still suspicious. The keys were restored to Kathleen, who, as she received them, said, with a provoking smile, 
                  "The same success to all your like undertakings!" 
                  The look of defiance in her face inclined them to resume the search, but her apparent indifference to their movements puzzled them again, and they walked slowly away, muttering and looking back occasionally, in hope of discovering some confirmation of their suspicions. But Kathleen remained quiet long after they disappeared; she did not venture to release her prisoner till quite confident of his safety. 
                  The unlocking of the door, and her cheerful voice were welcome sounds to the exhausted man, who, when he crept from his hiding place, could scarcely stand. 
                  "God bless ye, misthress. The Holy Vargin be with ye foriver. The goodness of ye'll niver lave me. God bless ye!" exclaimed he, falling upon his knees in tears, unable to thank her enough for saving him. 
                  "Show the same humanity towards the Protestants who fall in your hands, is all I ask in evidence of your gratitude," said she, inducing him to go below with her to obtain wherewith to refresh his weariness. 
                  Restored and refreshed, he left at nightfall, sorrowful that so generous and kind a benefactor should be a lost heretic; to the day of his death, he paid the priest for prayers to save her soul from purgatory! 
                  Accounts of continued strife and bloodshed, aggravated murders and the varions horrors of a civil contest, together with the anxiety regarding ing Colonel Neilson's protracted absence, depressed Kathleen's spirits, and made her long to fly from a country deluged with the blood of its own sons; she saw no promise of peaceful settlement of the cause in which they fought. Her thoughts wandered to the land where shouts of liberty rang up and resounded throughout the world. Her longing to seek its shores became a purpose, strengthened by the scenes which followed, though the very thought of forsaking her loved birth-place brought quick, burning tears. 
                  Darkness had come almost unawares, while she stood one evening on the lawn, thinking thus, and leaning against the gnarled trunk of a wide-spreading old tree, quite overshadowed by the thickly-leaved branches. The stars began to glimmer out mistily here and there, and sometimes a light breeze noisily fluttered the leaves, then subsided, leaving a lonely quiet. Kathleen was impelled to go in, yet remained sad and dispirited. While lingering thus, she caught the sound of stealthy footsteps and low whispering; presently, she detected the outline of two persons crouching and creeping along the hedge that separated the grounds from those of McIlvor-the Catholic neighbor, so highly valued by Colonel Neilson, notwithstanding their differences. 
                  Kathleen watched the figures breathlessly, as they stole along under the thick hedge, sure of some evil design, yet endeavored to know their intentions before she fled. She bent forward and listened intently to the whispers that came to her in the intervals of the slightly stirring breeze, but she could distinguish nothing till they both stopped nearly opposite her and crouched under the hedge. 
                  "Can it be me or mine they seek?" flashed upon her thoughts, with a quick, twinging heartbeat. 
                  Again she listened with every sense concentrated trated in hearing. When the noisy leaves kept quiet, she heard the few utterances of a coarse, gruff voice. 
                  "You'll be shooting first, Barney,--" then followed something in a lower whisper she could not catch. "When he's well off the steps,"-again the babbling leaves drowned the voice,-"said he'd be going at nine o' the clock." 
                  "Enough!" almost spoke Kathleen, in her eagerness, for she knew McIlvor was going to Armagh that night. "He shall not die, if I can help it," said she to herself, all her courage roused at the baseness of the meditated murder. She was about to retreat along the darkness of the trees, when Mcllvor's door opened, and the sound of his voice with others came cheerfully to her ear. Without an instant's reflection, she bounded towards the hedge, sprang through a gap close by the concealed men, and with an agile spring was upon McIlvor's steps. He stood at the entrance. Kathleen flung her arms around him, and exclaimed with all her strength, 
                  "If you shoot, you'll kill Neilson's wife!" and without waiting to explain, she drew him back into the house, closed and secured the door-a useless precaution, for the two men fled in dismay at the sudden apparition of their victim's preserver. 
                  The rection from fright overcame Kathleen, and she wept abundantly while relating to the surprised family what she had overhead. The excitement of the narrow escape, and the constant dread lest the avoided danger was but a precursor of coming evil to the whole household, gave them little rest that night. McIlvor had reason, as a member of the United Society, to dread the hatred of the Royalists; he knew not at what moment the example of his party might recoil upon his own home, and lay it in ruins. His wife shuddered and crossed herself, as she imagined the horror of seeing him stretched a corpse upon his own threshold. Blinding tears welled up as she attempted to speak her gratitude to Kathleen, who willingly escaped to her own home, leaving them in active preparation to charm away evil from their fireside. Strips of red cloth already decorated the entrance, and other outward appeals to their saints occupied and calmed their forebodings. 
                  Kathleen felt more keenly than ever the wretched condition of Ireland. The bitter warfare, with its inhuman butchery, the desolated homes, the wasting harvests, the superstition and bigotry among the educated as well as the ignorant classes, the fierce struggle between the two parties, each for the ascendancy of its own religion and influence in government, gave a hopeless, dismal prospect. "Oh for a home in a free land!" sighed Kathleen, when going to rest, after taking every precaution for security, though never sure of waking in safety. 
                
                
                   
                  VII. THE BURGLAR. 
                  WEEKS of suspense and fear dragged heavily along till the news of Lord Cornwallis' victory, which spread far and near, gave infinite relief to the unprotected, and crushed the wild hopes of the Catholics, whose main dependence had been upon the French. The successful landing of French troops, the prompt rallying of the Irish, which increased their army to a formidable body, and the advantage of the Catholics in numbers, had given rise to the certainty of victory on their part. This unexpected, entire defeat, after several successful skirmishes, struck terror into those who, in expectation of being the triumphant party, had committed depredations and mrder in every quarter. 
                   
                  "Ye'd betther be lookin' to yer head, Tom, thin sprawlin' about here o' days and takin' yersel out o' nights. Why, but ye gets som'at for the mouths of us whin we's starvin? A lazy bit ye are!" said a coarse-featured woman in a calico short-gown, red petticoat, and wide-bordered cap that flapped back and forth in comical time-keeping with her steps. She went hither and thither with long strides, now picking up the baby, whose travels around the boardless floor did not improve the condition of its begrimmed face and hands, and then giving a stinging slap upon the round cheeks of the little urchin who busied himself in making the pig squeal in the corner; for one room was all the hut contained. Impatient at the noise that drowned even her sharp voice, she tumbled th boy headlong into the opposite corner, with perfect unconcern as to how he might find himself. Wiping the baby's face with a coarse towel that hung over her arm, and which had performed the same service for the scanty dishes that garnished the top of an old chest, she seated the child upon the floor again, approached the door, rested her hands upon her hips, and scowling ferociously, made a tongue-attack upon the indolent fellow who sunned himself on a bench at the side of the shanty. 
                  "Where's the good to be there wi' yer slapin' cap on? Wake yer wits, mon, and stir about wi' yersel'. Off to yon big house, an' the lady'll give ye a bit for us," nodding her head in the direction of Colonel Neilson's house, which lay a mile or so over the fields in plain sight. 
                  "Faith, an' d'ye think I'll be askin' favors of thim Protestants? More's the shame for ye, whin ye knows they've bate us." 
                  "Shame to yersel', mon. Why but ye went to battle wi' the rest jist? Up wi' ye, and get sum'ut for the likes of us that has ne'er seen a dthrop to ate sin' the lady fetched hersel'. An' didn't I brake the ground for the praties this blessed mornin', wi' me own hands, long afoore ye was coom back from Mike's? Then tellin' shame to me it is! Out upon ye, mon!" cried she with rising temper, catching up a pan and flinging it at him. 
                  A skillful dodge, acquired from necessary practice, saved him the intended stroke. But he arose, picked up his cap, slouched it upon his head, thrust his hands deep into his empty pockets, and went shuffling along, grumbling as he walked. Over the stone fences he tumbled, and found his way lazily through the fields, till he reached the hedge-enclosed grounds of Colonel Neilson. There he lingered and hesitated, still unwilling to ask a favor of Protestants, yet sure it could "be had for the asking." He knew equally well he would meet with a rebuff at McIlvor's, since they were wearied with the frequent importunities of his family. Tom was a lazy fellow, and would rather steal than work, any day, if he could escape the penalty which must be paid with life. Work was a more terrible task than ever, after the past weeks of excitement and association with those who were busied nightly in bloody affrays, or firing houses. 
                  "I'll not be asking thim," concluded he, after much rambling and hesitation. "No more is the use, for where's the harm in takin' from the thim as has plinty. I'll be helpin' mysel' while the masther is away," muttered he, as he seated himself upon the top of a stone wall, preferring to kick it with his heels for an hour, rather than to listen to the reproaches of his more energetic wife. The more he thought upon his plan, the more satisfied he became. He finally strolled off to his usual haunt, a mile distant, and far back from the highway, known as "Mike's"-a place in no better condition than his own miserable home, but more attractive, from its being the resort of an association of lawless fellows. 
                  Night came softly down, offering rest to the guilty in their haunts, as well as to those whose homes were hallowed with peace and truth. Midnight found the reckless pursuing their crimes, stealing hither and thither in bands; but lulled, with its stillness, every one of Kathleen's household into refreshing slumber. The old clock in the corner struck one, with its usual precision, and the long pendulum clicked back and forth with its accustomed moderation. Yet Kathleen awoke suddenly at the stroke, sure that some other sound had disturbed her. She partly arose, looked intently about the apartment and listened, but all was quiet and she returned to her rest. While still listening and conjecturing as to what it might have been, the same unexplainable sound came again, apparently from the upper part of the house. Bounding to the floor and enveloping herself in a loose robe, she took a sword from its place against the wall at the head of her bed, and with a night-lamp in the other hand, stepped softly out into the hall. Nothing unusual was there; she stood still and listened. A muffled sound, as of some one treading across the floor of the upper rooms, came to her, and immediately she ascended the stairs and stood upon the landing. She scarcely breathed in her eagerness to detect the exact direction of the stealthy noise. Again, she heard it distinctly in the store-room, and without an instant's thought, pushed the key into the lock, turned it, and as quickly flung back the door. Raising the light above her and looking forward into the long room, she saw a man, whose face was concealed under a black mask, standing midway between her and the broken window, holding a well filled bag as if about to drag it after him. He instantly dropped it and stood still, confounded at the sudden apparition. Kathleen grasped the sword firmly, and without moving from near the entrance, said boldly and courageously, 
                  "Walk down those stairs before me, or I'll strike you to the heart. Tom Lawson, I know you," exclaimed she, keeping the shining blade between them. 
                  Without a word he obeyed her superior courage, passed through the door and descended before her. She kept the sword in threatening attitude between them, lest he might turn suddenly upon her. The life of each lay in the other's power; for should she deliver him into the hands of justice, hanging would be the penalty of his thievish propensity, and he could no more than lose his life if he took hers, which was his only chance of escaping exposure. But whether from want of weapons, or lack of courage, he obeyed unresistingly, unlocked the door and went out into the darkness as she commanded. 
                  Kathleen secured the door behind him, and after a sentinel excursion through the house, returned to her own apartment to watch nervously till daylight. A tap upon one of the windows startled her, but determined to exhibit no fear, she directly opened it. Tom stood beneath, and spoke in a voice of anxiety and entreaty. 
                  "Madam, me life is in yer hand. Spare it for God's sake. Ye knows I wud ne'er have doon the like but for the starvin' wife and childers. They've ne'er a bit for their mouths, and what'll coom to thim if ye give me over to the hangman? Och, madam, if there's a dthrop of marcy left in yet blessed heart, do not tell it on me." 
                  "What in the name of justice did you attempt to rob me for, Tom, when, if you had asked, I should have given what you needed? Have I ever refused your family food or clothing? Is it thus you return my gifts?" 
                  "The blessed Mary protect ye, madam. I'll niver be doing the like again, but don't till it on me-don't till it on me. I'll niver slape in pace till ye forgives it to me, and gi'es me yer word for it, ye'll not bethray me." Thus he entreated and plead till she gave her promise of secrecy, which should not be binding in case of a second offence. 
                  "God bless ye, madam. God bless ye foriver. Long life to ye and the wee ones. Ye'r marcy will light me till the breath laves me." 
                  Kathleen closed the window, unwilling to hear words that might be belied. For the sake of his poor wife, she had given her word to save him, though she had little hope of his reform. 
                  The next morning, Kathleen went forth, heavily laden, to the little hovel in the field, but no Tom was there, neither were his wife and children to be found. The little hut was deserted, and had scarcely a trace of having been inhabited, excepting a pile of old straw in a corner and the little mound of black peat near the door. The sudden removal was not to be wondered at, since they were but slightly burdened with worldly goods. With the pig under one arm and the bady under the other, the mother could easily march off, leaving the bag of potatoes and few household utensils for Tom to shoulder. 
                  Kathleen reproached herself for not sooner coming to their aid, though the guilty disappearance solved the summer's mystery of vanishing fruit and vegetables. On returning home, she found all in joyful commotion at the unexpected arrival of Colonel Neilson. The children ran about, clapped their hands and shouted with overwhelming gladness, telling the good news the twentieth time to every one they met. Happy exclamations, running to and fro, laughter and tears, betrayed the tidings to Kathleen, before the words could be uttered. The sudden relief from long suspense and anxiety for each other, gave too intense joy for words; an earnest and deep ejaculation was all Colonel Neilson could express as he clasped his weeping wife in his arms. 
                  "Thank God, we are all unharmed yet," exclaimed he at last, looking at Kathleen's now illuminated minated features, and upon the bright faces upturned all about him. The first gush of greeting over, the thousand and one questions answered on all sides, they gathered together in the wide hall where the breeze came in, fresh and cool, from the garden. Little Willie helped himself to a seat on his father's knee, and another scrambled up behind him. The rest clustered about, eager to hear the recital of his adventures. Thus they sat, listening to the rapid sketches of the past weeks; of the battles and long marches, over heaths and barren moors, along the seashore and among the humble thatched huts of the poor, wild Irish, along the western coast. 
                  "But there's one scene I never can forget," said he, speaking rapidly and looking earnestly at Kathleen. 
                  "If ever I meet that man I shall burn to revenge innocent blood." Passing his hand over his brow, as if to smooth away a painful remembrance, he hesitated a moment, but the recital cital was too nearly upon his lips to be repressed. 
                  "Before we joined Lord Cornwallis we came to a little hamlet near Elphin which seemed nearly deserted. Beyond, at some distance, thick smoke went curling up to the clouds. Suspecting some wrong or misfortune, a few of us, after the soldiers were quartered, went in the direction of the fire. Upon coming to the scene beyond a thick orchard, we were struck with horror on beholding a blazing barn, surrounded by a handful of miscreants, who were keeping in the flames a crowd of helpless women and children, gathered there for refuge. Screams of terror and pain came from the victims-such screams as will ring in my ears forever. One man, evidently a priest, whose every feature is impressed with odious distinctness upon my memory, seized a beautifully fair child who was creeping from under the planks to escape, and, thrusting a pitch-fork deep into its tender flesh, tossed it back into the flames! Ah, ha!" exclaimed he, shuddering at the recollection and starting up in his excitement, "if I could but have shot him! But he escaped me. We routed the fiendish brutes, though too late to save the poor wretches, who were quickly smothered and scorched. Before the affray was over, the building fell with a deafening crash, burying every soul in its ruins. Oh, that priest!" said he, angrily closing his teeth over his words. 
                  Kathleen's face expressed sickened horror, while she listened, and the young auditors looked wonderingly aghast, as they comprehended what was told them. It left an unhappy feeling with them all, more especially as their joy at the new arrival was lessened by the knowledge that peace and order were not yet restored, and that any moment might again break the family circle. 
                  "We cannot stay here," said Kathleen earnestly and sorrowfully. "We can no more be happy in dear old Ireland. A wretched, mistaken ken bigotry and oppression from every quarter, have already drenched her soil with blood. Erin, Erin, is a dear, holy name, but my heart warms towards the land of freedom. America and Liberty!" exclaimed she enthusiastically. Colonel Neilson could not respond as fervently to the suggestion, for he loved Ireland with all her misery, nor could he forsake her shores now. 
                  "We will see,-we will see, Kathleen. I own I have thought much of it, but I will stand by our brave old isle, till this trouble has swept by. Were I to go from her now, every blade of grass in her green sod might well cry shame to the deserter. But look to the future with your keen eyes, Kathleen!" 
                
             
             
                
               Part Fourth. 
               VOYAGE. 
               NEW HOME. 
               RETRIBUTION. 
                
                   
                   
                  VIII. VOYAGE. 
                  A BUSY and expectant crowd was moving to and fro upon the wharf at Belfast, a few hours before the ship "St. Patrick" set sail. The crew were hastening about in the final, busy preparations for a long voyage. Groups of friends gathered here and there to say hopeful, parting words to those who were about to seek better fortunes than poor Ireland could give, or, wearied with the scenes of oppression and bloodshed that desolated their homes, turned away to seek gladder, freer homes in other lands. 
                  Among the several groups on deck, was one of a mother in the midst of her six priceless treasures. One, a flaxen-haired girl, slender and delicately featured, was evidently the especial favorite of a manly brother, who now and then coaxed her away, and, with a wise, important air, explained the uses of the mazes of rigging that stretched above them, or, for her amusement, climbed the ropes with an agility and recklessness that called forth more fear than admiration from his gentle sister. 
                  "I'm going to be captain of a ship some day, you see, Mary," said he, sliding quickly and lightly down to where she stood, her mouth and eyes dilated with fear. "You're not afraid' child! You don't suppose I'd fall, do you?" laughed he, as he followed her back to where the rest were gathered. 
                  There sat Azile, the one of dark eyes and rich complexion, with her massive, glossy hair wound about her head in heavy braids. Her air was neither timid nor bold. Pride, and a consciousness of her own worth, without conceit, gave her a queenly air that was perfectly in keeping with the self-reliance and decision of character expressed sed in her face. She was the opposite, in every respect, of the spiritual, transparent, fragile Mary. A chubby little sister stole away from them whenever she could free herself from protection, and followed the bounding footsteps of young Willie, who darted off in every direction to find occupation for his busy eyes and mischievous fingers. When teeming with wonderful discoveries, he hastened to unfold them to his father, who paced the deck or looked silently off on land, and only noticed the enthusiastic stories by resting his hand kindly upon the clustered curls that lay like a golden crown upon the loved boy's head; his thoughts were with the land he was leaving; he was sad in relinquishing it for a strange, new home, in far-off America. 
                  Love of nation is nowhere stronger than with the Irish. Even the poor, famished creature upon the barren heaths devotedly kisses the very turf that scarcely yields a potato to his salt! This love of country struggled for the mastery in Colonel Neilson's heart. He had reluctantly decided to abandon his native land, after assuring himself of the inextinguishable feud between the two religious parties, the hopelessness of invoking liberty and peace to these shores. Influenced, too, by his wife's persuasions, he disposed of his possessions at great sacrifice, and now went to claim America as the land of his adoption. 
                  While he stood dispirited and doubting, his attention was attracted by exclamations of distress from among the crowd upon the wharf. A weeping girl was closely clasped in the arms of her mother, who entreated her not to go from her, and filled the air with cries of grief. 
                  "Ohone! Norah, how can ye be going over the sae that will be dhrowning ye long afoor ye sets fut on the shore? My eyes'll ne'r light on the like of ye, darlint. Och! Norah, ye shall not be takin' yersel' away," exclaimed she, in a wailing tone that expressed the deepest sorrow. The bystanders looked on with curiosity or sympathy, and the sailors swore at the delay occasioned by the mother's refusal to allow the chest that contained all Norah's possessions, to be conveyed on ship-board. 
                  "Kathleen, that is our Norah. We shall have trouble in getting her off," said Colonel Neilson, turning to his wife. He went out upon the wharf, expostulated with the mother, and endeavored to quiet her fears by glowing descriptions of the little fortune her daughter would acquire, of her return home, or of friends who would join her in America; but it was all useless; he received but one reply-a long, loud wail, mingled with broken exclamations. Thus he left them and consoled himself, as best he might, with the remembrance of her passage having been paid, and the inconvenience to his wife of being left without a servant. "Sloan must be all the more faithful," soliloquized he, as he returned to the upper deck. The last glimpse they had of Norah and her mother was when the two sat smiling and happy upon the bottom of a low, jaunting-car that was to trundle them through the streets of Belfast, and miles beyond, to their humble dwelling. 
                  The hour of departure arrived; the sails were unfurled to a fresh breeze, and amid shouts, fluttering handkerchiefs, and waving hats, the ship floated slowly away. Several days of fair weather and brisk winds wafted her far away upon the ocean. Then succeeded long weeks of wearied endurance of calms and storms, and the uncomfortable monotony of a long voyage in a close, crowded ship. The first few days, succeeding recovery from sea-sickness, passed pleasantly with the Neilson family, while amused with the novelty of affairs on ship-board, or looking off upon the boundless ocean and talking of its hidden wonders, watching the waves roll heavily back as the ship briskly ploughed through the waters; or standing amazed, at the stern, watching the phosphorescent light that gleamed and danced like fire-flies in the wake of the vessel. 
                  One morning, when Kathleen had exchanged the close air of the cabin for a pure, fresh breeze on deck, her motherly eye fell upon a young boy, who consoled his weeping sister in an almost unintelligible jargon, which at once stamped him a southern Catholic. They had evidently strayed from among the steerage passengers, and now sat quite alone upon some coiled ropes near the stern. 
                  "What troubles your sister?" asked Kathleen. At her words, a pale face, with swollen eyes, looked out from behind the crumpled folds of an apron that served to dry her tears. 
                  "Indade, misthress, it's pinin' for ould Ireland, she is. She'd be takin' hersel' back but for the wather that 'ouldn't lave her brogues dthry, I'm thinkin'." 
                  "Are you alone?" resumed the questioner, with a look and tone of sympathy that at once opened the full hearts of the voyagers. 
                  "If ye'll bide wi' us a bit, I'll tell ye for the matther o' that," eagerly replied the boy, to which followed a rapid account of themselves. Kathleen gathered from it that their mother had preceded them to America and earned sufficient to send for them. 
                  "It was the storm itsel' that frighted Biddy, and where's the wondther, for if we'd ha' been fast at the bottom o' the sae, where's the praste that would ha' knowed to say prayers to fetch the souls of us out o' purgatory." 
                  "Och, Mike, have n't we said prayers to the Vargin these tin days to kape us out o' the waves? It's not that. Ye see, ma'am, I was afeard the ship had gone asthray, for we've not clapt eyes on the turf sin' we lighted on the ship. An' for a' that there's som'at the matther among us. Thase foor days the women and childers ha' sickened, an' the men, too, for a' that. Last night there was no slape for me eyes, for seein' the two of 'em carried away dead; and did n't they throw 'em to the fishes in the dead o' night without a mass or sae mich as a candle to light 'em? Ochrane! we'll niver see the blessed turf again!" exclaimed she, bursting into a fresh torrent of tears. 
                  Kathleen tried to console her with the promise of caring for them till they joined their mother, but Biddy's account of sickness, and the secret burials, aroused her suspicions of the presence of a pestilence. Hastening to Colonel Neilson, she made known her fears. After closely questioning these children, he could not conceal the alarm he felt, for one of his own lay ill and feverish that morning. He was soon in close consulation with the captain, from whom he heard what could no longer be concealed-the yellow fever was fast claiming victims from among them. To fly for safety was the first instinct, not for his own sake, but to ensure the lives of those whom he held dear; second thought brought the certainty that there was no escape. They were hedged in with the fatal pestilence. With a shooting, sickening pain at his heart, he sought Kathleen, who still stood listening to Biddy's history. He could only utter the words that have paled many a cheek as surely as if they contained the dread death summons-"It is the yellow fever!" 
                  Every feature in Kathleen's face expressed the keenest anguish during the moment she remained silent. 
                  "Our Mary!" was all she could say as they turned away to seek the one who seemed marked for the first victim. Poor young Biddy and Mike returned to their close, infected quarters with renewed fears, yet consoled in having won the sympathy of a kind heart. 
                  Another sun-rise found the seal of death upon the features of the gentle, timid Mary. The hands of a loving mother arrayed the slight form in a snowy robe, in preparation for the sad burial in the waves. Sometimes she ceased her sad task, clasped the lifeless child close to her bosom, as though to win back her life again, but no caresses returned her fondness, and she resumed her task with fast-flowing tears. Azile severed a long lock from the waving, silken hair that had won for the lost the appellation of "floating glory," from the brother who had loved her so dearly. 
                  "I feared Mary would die," said Joe, "for she always looked to me like an angel." His eyes clung to the cold, tranquil face till it was hidden from sight in the folds of the winding-sheet. He kept close beside the shrouded form, watching every movement with jealous eyes, lest the sailors should not carry her gently. But it was not until the weeping family gathered near the dead, and a touching prayer ascended, that Joe realized the terror of an ocean burial. It all came back to him how Mary had stood there with him a few days before, when they talked of the ocean's mysteries. He remembered with dreadful distinctness how she clung to him when she said, "I should love to go down among the shells and caves; but would n't you be afraid of the great fishes, Joe?" little thinking how soon her form would glide down the liquid depths. 
                  He could no longer keep silent, but gave vent to his grief, and threw his arms over the hidden form as if to shield it. The sailors tore him away, and, quickly fastening weights to the winding-sheet, gently dropped into the dark waves all that remained of the loved Mary. Azile strained her eyes after the sinking form till the surging waves rolled over it and separated them forever. Colonel Neilson turned away from the sight, and went below to watch beside Kathleen, who had been carried to her berth insensible. She had no reliance upon God to support her under this trial, and the many that were yet to discipline her into a God-acknowledging life. For days they had but faint hopes of her recovery from an illness that followed her bereavement. She knew nothing of another death-that of Sloan, whose terror at finding himself shut in with the terrible pestilence, made him an easy victim. He would have torn it from him; he writhed and struggled in its frightful grasp, and at last sunk helpless under the stroke of death, with no hope beyond the mysterious tomb, wherein his sleeping, giant form found a place among the hosts who people the ocean's bed. 
                  Another week passed away and yet there was no abatement of the pestilence. More than sixty had found a grave in the track of the fated ship. Colonel Neilson had constantly exerted himself to infuse cheerfulness and courage in such as remained free from the disease, and provided every possible means to ensure the safety of his family. He had believed his efforts successful cessful, till one day the youngest-the much loved Willie, sank weak and feverish upon his bed. Kathleen, scarcely able to stand, dragged herself to the dark, narrow berth near her own; fear and anxiety for this idol of her flock, gave her unnatural strenth to watch over him. Nothing could persuade her to leave him, when she beheld the rapid strides of the disease, and saw that he was marked for death. Every moment of his fast-waning life was precious to her. At last he turned to her and asked, 
                  "Mother, will you hear me say my prayers?" 
                  She had been faithful in teaching her children the beautiful daily prayer of "Our Father," and gladly gave her assent. Willie faintly struggled to raise himself from the pillow; with his mother's sustaining arm he gained a kneeling posture and folded his hands together. Innocence and purity beamed in the pale but rounded face, about which clustered shining, golden curls; a fit crown for the dying child, already as beautiful as a white-robed angel. 
                  "Our Father-" he spoke faintly, then stopped; his hands dropped beside him, and he fell heavily back in his mother's arms. Willie was dead. 
                  The next morning a dark mass of clouds swept up from the horizon. Every sailor was at his post. The sails were furled, and the ship made ready for a battle with the storm. In the midst of these rapid preparations, Colonel Neilson came on deck, bearing in his arms his best-loved boy, who lay calmly unconscious of the warring sounds about him. 
                  "Is he dead?" sorrowfully asked the sailors, as they glanced by him in the quick performance of duty. 
                  "Pity he could not have been saved," said an old weather-beaten sailor, who came to assist in the burial. He thought of the hours he had frollicked licked away with the gleesome child, making miniature ships and wooden chains, or telling him strange stories of the deep, till he had grown to love the sunny-hearted boy. Tears rolled over his sun-burnt, wrinkled face, as he hastily sewed up the winding-sheet. The winds played fiercely along the deck, blowing and tossing the close curls back from the pure, smooth brow of the dead child, and then whirled away among the furled sails and the rattling rigging, with a dismal, whistling howl. Dizzily the ship rocked to and from, keeping time to the wild dirge and lullaby of the storm-spirit's song. Closer and closer drew the folds around the unconscious sleeper till at last the dimpled arm, then the sweet face, disappeared, and only those crowning curls remained without the shroud. Colonel Neilson could not restrain a groan of anguish as this last glimpse was shut from him. A few moments more and the child was poised upon a high, foam-crested wave, then descended swiftly into the boiling surge. Down, down, among the caves and rocks the fair child sank, to 
                        "--toss with tangle and with shells,"
                      but up-up, far beyond the wild storm, rose his angel spirit, to be with the "Father," whose name had been sweetly breathed out with his life. 
                  Several weeks afterwards the St. Patrick cast anchor below Staten Island, and prepared to send the passengers ashore, where they were to perform quarantine. Glad to escape the infected ship, Colonel Neilson eagerly placed his remaining family in the boat that had been immediately lowered. Several heavy chests, containing the most valuable of their effects, were placed in the bottom. All things in readiness, they gladly pushed from the ship; the oars rose and fell with a right good will, and, like freed prisoners, each occupant of the boat smiled gladly ly upon the other, neither noticing or caring for the inconvenience of the water that oozed in. A sailor quietly busied himself in bailing it out, till presently he acknowledged that his efforts did not prevent its gradual increase. The oarsmen began to move more rapidly, and Colonel Neilson assisted in dashing out the water. They all worked in silence and with rapidity, but it was soon evident the boat had sprung a leak, and they were yet nearly two miles from shore. 
                  "The chests must go overboard," said the sailor, ceasing from his work. Two, heavily laden, were plunged into the water. Again, labor was resumed, but danger every moment increased. Unable longer to restrain her fears, Kathleen uttered shriek after shriek in a clear shrill voice that echoed along the shore. Terror gave greater force to a voice long noted for its strength and clearness in song, and it did them a life-service now; for it rang upon the ears of those on shore, and attracted their notice to the fluttering tering shawl she shook above her most vehemently. Skiffs quickly shot out from the beach, and glanced swiftly over the bay, reaching the half-drowned voyagers in time to rescue them from threatened death. The sinking boat was already nearly filled with water; the terrified children, drenched in the unwelcome bath, gladly followed their mother into a dry skiff, and were soon safe upon terra-firma. 
                  Tents were erected on shore for those remaining in health, while the sick, among whom Biddy and Mike were included, were placed in the already crowded hospital. From morning till night, and from night till morning, the dull, heavy sound of the hammer resounded without and within the hospital, closing the dead in their rude pine coffins-a sad death-knell to the inconsolable mother, who walked back and forth on the beach, calling upon the sea to give back her dead. 
                  One morning, soon after her arrival, while she stood looking out upon the bay, her sympathies were roused at the sight of a poorly clad woman who remained before the gates of the hospital, weeping, and entreating every one who passed her, to gain her admittance, where she had been peremptorily refused. No communication with the city was permitted, though the pestilence was stealing a slow but sure march within its precincts. Having herself suffered, Kathleen pitied the tears of the poor woman, approached and questioned her. She discovered in her the mother of the lonely young voyagers, Biddy and Mike, whom she had taken a friendly interest in, and had visited in the hospital. Her admittance was not disputed, as the resident physician was an old, well-tried friend from Dublin. Never at a loss for expedients in difficulty, Kathleen induced the woman to follow her, and, concealed behind one of the divisions of the tent she occupied, quickly exchanged dress, bonnet and shawl with the applicant. 
                   
                  "Now go," said she, "and when you pass, do not let your face be seen. Give my name, and they will readily admit you." A few directions as to where she would find her children, and she was on her way to them with a beating heart. Entering a large apartment, and looking eagerly at each invalid in the long rows ranged on either side, she passed on, till her motherly eye recognized her daughter, in spite of two years' separation and the ravages of disease. Clasping Biddy in her arms, she wept convulsively, while the poor child, separated from, her brother, surrounded by strange, new faces, and hearing only the groans of the dying, was ready to shout her joy at claiming a mother. An expression of perfect content diffused itself over her hitherto sad face. Rejoiced at having found one child, the mother hastened to seek the other. Mike lay in a room above, in the midst of other long lines of invalids, and here she found him in near approach to death. He did not recognize ognize her till her familiar and well-remembered voice fell upon his ear. Looking fixedly in her face, and speaking with a faint smile, "Mother!" he said no more, but still kept gazing till the spark of life went out, and he lay still and dead before her. But he had seen her; he had spoken before life was extinct, and she was there to perform the last sad offices, and see him laid decently in the grave-an unspeakable consolation to the mourning mother. 
                  Biddy slowly recovered, but not until after Kathleen had gone from the uncomfortable tented home on the beach, and was following the beautiful windings of the Hudson. She carried with her the grateful blessings of the mother and daughter, who were eventually lost to her in the crowded metropolis, where they lived and labored. 
                
                
                   
                  IX. NEW-HOME. 
                  ALONG the northern banks of the Hoosick river, in Eastern New-York, were scattered, many years ago, the substantial farm-houses of wealthy Dutch settlers, who almost exclusively occupied that region of country. The Hoosick rolled its wealth of waters in beautiful curves, between banks that, upon one side, fell back in a broad, luxurious valley, and upon the other, rose in verdant hills, crowned with giant oaks. A road skirted the hill-side bank, but the opposite was thickly bordered with low, bushy trees and willows that dipped their long, drooping branches into the flowing river. The wild raspberry and and tangled grape-vine flourished in untrained profusion-seemingly left in contrast with the orderly derly kept farms, or better yet, reserved for the walks of young lovers when they 
                        "--would a wooing go."
                     
                   
                  A bridge, in no way noted for its architecture, spanned the river at a point where the highway came up from the valley, thus bringing into closer neighborhood the farmers who lived along the valley road with those whose possessions lay on the slopes of "Oak Hills." Away over these hills, stretched the broad, well-tilled acres of the independent farmers, whose long, low, Dutch houses betrayed the foreign origin of their owners. The steep roofs, curving out into shady porticoes, the thick stone walls, irregular windows with their wooden shutters, and great double doors at the entrance, looked entirely unlike the quickly built frame-work distinguishing the American domicils. The difference was equally plain within. 
                  The most spacious among them was owned by a sturdy, well-to-do Dutchman, called Van Theusan, who prided himself greatly upon his worldly goods, among which were some twenty or thirty slaves. He was not singular in this, however, as nearly every farmer in the neighborhood could boast the ownership of at least half-a-dozen negroes, who, by dint of much urging and constant faultfinding on the part of masters, succeeded in preserving order on the farms and in the numerous, well-stored out-houses. 
                  Dame Van Theusan was a notable housewife. Up in the morning before the sun, her feet went patter, patter, over the white, sanded floors, and her tongue more than kept time, while she scolded in genuine Dutch. A bunch of keys jingled noisily at her side as she hastened from one room to another, giving orders to the various servants, in a high, sharp key, scolding one, boxing another, and shaking the sleepy ones, till her directions were most thoroughly obeyed. 
                  "Missus do nothin' but scold, nigger do nothin' thin' but scour! Scour, scold from Monday mornin' till de solemn Saturday night!" was poor Rosy's exclamation, as she went reluctantly to scrub the floors that were already white and shining. Her only consolation was in seeing her companions at the equally useless task of waxing and polishing the unspotted furniture, or flourishing among the array of tins already flashing with brightness. A dozen others, who had been roused at daylight, were busy with the loom and shuttle in one of the long outhouses, weaving out counterpanes, linen, and the material for their own coarse clothing. The accumulations of their labor were visible in the full store-rooms when Dame Van Theusan deigned to unlock them. Heavy piles of household linen and bedding of every variety, were stored here, as a portion of the dowry of her children, beside all required in her own time. 
                  But despite the thrifty, busy, orderly household over which the active vrow presided, she only outdid her neighbors in the art of scolding, for the most of them were proverbially neat. The few Yankee farmers scattered about, who had not slaves, labored most industriously to vie with their wealthy competitors. The sun-burnt owners followed the plow from early dawn till evening, and with their sturdy sons, reaped the rich harvests. Their daughters, within doors, sped cheerily to their tasks, and, with pleasant words, and sometimes a song, hastened to the milking, or dashed away at the churn, fed the poultry, scoured, brushed and swept, all with an alacrity and interest which a slave can never feel. There was no din of harsh words from morning till night, but the hum and buzz of the spinning wheel kept time to the passing seconds till the quiet of evening came; even then, busy fingers plied the swift knitting-needles, while the sisters sat chatting in the doorway, sometimes passing a merry joke with the brothers, who rested on the fresh grass. 
                   
                  But whether slaves or freemen tilled these farms, all bore abundant harvests, and were refreshing to look upon, as they stretched along the river-side upon the hills and through the valley, dotted with quaint farm-houses, shaded with a few remnants of the old forests, and watered by the river. 
                  So thought an Irish land-holder, just from his native isle, as he rode slowly over Oak Hills and down to the river-side. For a few moments he reigned in his horse to survey leisurely the country that lay before him, then galloped across the bridge and away through the valley. After scanning the valley farms, he returned slowly, and, as he recrossed the bridge, smilingly said to himself, "Our home shall be here." 
                  A short ride brought him to the gateway of the Van Theusan farm-house, where he alighted to make inquiries. The round-faced, portly Dutchman sat in the shade of the low porch, comfortably puffing long spirals of smoke from his meerschaum. As the new comer approached, he arose to meet him, and gave him a cordial welcome, when he learned his intention to settle among them. Colonel Neilson's rolling accent sounded strangely to the ears of the Van Theusans, for he was the first emigrant from the Emerald Isle that had come upon their domains. His good humored frankness and enthusiastic admiration of their American homes, quickly won their interest and hospitality. 
                  After a social repast and an hour's consultation, the purchase of a portion of land on the opposite bank of the river was decided upon, but the question yet remained to be settled as to where his family should find a home while preparing a new one. A house to let was not to be found within fifteen miles, with the exception of a humble log structure that stood back in the forest which bordered the east limits of the farm. 
                   
                  "A rude home it is, indeed, but, for a wild nook, I have never seen the like of it," exclaimed the Irish enthusiast, after he had clambered up the forest path, noted the rocky bed of the stream that ran before it, listened, delighted, to the dashing of the waterfall and its echoes in the woods, and gathered a few of the wild flowers that clung in the crevices of the rocks. This was all novel and charming to Colonel Neilson. 
                  The house, built of rough hewn logs, stood near the banks of the stream just above the waterfall. Its dimensions were limited enough, and its neglected look made even the good-natured Colonel shrug his shoulders, when he thought of bringing his wife to such a home. He consoled his doubts, however, with the intention of thorough repairs, which would render it entirely comfortable till more commodious quarters were prepared. 
                  "Kathleen will soon have it covered with vines and surrounded with flowers, and we can surely make it cheerful within," said he, fully inclined to make the best of it. 
                  Several weeks had gone by, when, one bright morning, Dame Van Theusan bethought herself of the strangers who had that day taken possession of the log house in the woods, and, rightly judging they might need assistance, sent one of her house-slaves, Dinah, to see what could be done. Dinah had been absent scarcely an hour, when she came running back, breathless and so wonder-struck that she could scarcely tell her story. 
                  "Oh, missus! do come right off! I niver seed sich queer peoples. De fine lady, thur she sits, all dressed in white, and cryin' like a baby, 'cause she can't riz a finger to scour them dirty floors. An' the childers-oh, massy! they're all curiousest things I ever laid eyes on. De boys' breeches only's down to thur knees, wid long, silk stockin's, and shinin' buckles on thur shoes. An' de leetle gals, why, missus, thur frocks be slit up all de way down behind, and shows off de splendid pink petticoats to devantage. De house be full of chists, too, an' massy knows what's in 'em!" 
                  Dinah would have talked all day, had not her mistress frowned upon her and sent her for another servant to return with her. Dame Van Theusan, though severe with her slaves, was as kind as need be to her friends. She hastened to fill a basket with fresh bread, tea, and jars of sweetmeats, as a present to the new comers. She was soon on her way through the fields, followed by Dinah and Rosy, bearing the heavily-laden basket. On approaching the woods, they met the children running hither and thither, delighted with the novelty of rambling in the woods. Dinah had not given an exaggerated description of them. Joe and Terence looked odd enough to the Americanized visitors, in their blue jackets and short clothes, silver knee-buckles and broad crimped ruffles, which stood out stiffly from their necks. The chubby little sister ran after them, stopping every other step to gather the hosts of blossoms, from which her little feet pressed out the fragrance wherever she trod. But upon perceiving the approach of the two blacks, with their shiny eyes and teeth in ebony setting, they every one turned and fled to the house in terror. Even Joe, courageous as he was, walked rapidly towards home, though he disdained to run. Dame Van Theusan followed them, laughing heartily. Upon approaching the door, she was not a little surprised to see a dignified woman, of perhaps thirty-five years, robed in a fine, white morning dress, sitting upon a huge chest and weeping bitterly. Azile stood near her mother, trying to console her, and heartily wishing herself back in Ireland. 
                  Dame Van Theusan immediately offered her services towards acquiring order in the confused house. Dinah and Rosy even set to work briskly, while their mistress occupied herself in unpacking from the chests some of the endless, household paraphernalia. Before evening, the rooms were comfortably neat, and furnished with an air of cozy pleasantness that imparted new courage to Kathleen. A bright fire was kindled on the wide hearth, and the tea-kettle swung upon the crane, humming and steaming away with great zeal. The table was spread with snow-white damask from the newly-opened chests, and set with the tempting viands provided by the thoughtful neighbor. Colonel Neilson came in, delighted with the already cheerful aspect which their humble quarters had assumed; while they sat at the evening repast, he so mingled mirth with accounts of his future plans that Kathleen forgot her despondency and tears, and joined heartily in the laugh. Dame Van Theusan left them enjoying ing the novelty of their new home, and returned to her family, happy in having cheered the stranger. 
                  The next day the curiosity among the slaves in the neighborhood to see the Irish settlers, was not to be overcome by threats. One by one they stole quietly from their labors and took a peep into the new domicile, with a broad grin on their faces, to the no small terror of the occupants. Kathleen could not devise means to get rid of the annoyance, which was doubly alarming during the absence of her husband. Once, while alone for several days, she was tormented with the suspicion that a pair of rolling eyes had seen the hiding place of a can of gold, which she had adroitly concealed beneath the floor. Fear banished sleep, till at last, wearied with constant apprehension, she sprang up at midnight, giving vent to an impatient exclamation, and brought forth the troublesome treasure. Thrusting her feet into a pair of slippers, and throwing a shawl over her head, she turned back the button from the door-latch and stepped out into the open path, shaded from the moonlight by the thick foliage above her. Hiding the weighty can beneath her shawl, she hastened through the dim woods, then into the open fields and down to the Van Theusan homestead. Knowing her kind neighbor's apartment, she gave a quick, sharp tap upon the window. The sash was soon thrown up by the aroused sleeper, who inquired her errand in astonishment. Kathleen replied by pushing the can upon the window-still, and entreated her to take charge of it. The usual gravity of the active dame was overcome, and she shook with laughter at Kathleen's earnest account of the ebony-skinned intruders, and her fears lest she should be both murdered and robbed. They were grinning demons to her excited imagination. She was somewhat pacified by her neighbor's assurances of their harmless curiosity; relieved, too, of the care of the treasure, she retraced her steps homeward through the fields and woods, reaching the cottage safely, and returned to her sleeping children, with infinite satisfaction at the removal of the cause of her constant fears. 
                
                
                   
                  X. RETRIBUTION. 
                  JUST a year expired before the new frame house, with its pleasant adornings, was ready for the reception of the first and only Irish family that had yet settled in that region; and a year of vexation, weariness, and unaccustomed labor, it had been to Kathleen, who, hitherto, had found her wants gratified without exertion on her own part. That year, too, had brought a fair little girl that was the wonderment of all the neighborhood. A bevy of dark faces came peeping in every day with the good wishes of their mistress, and to gratify their curiosity in seeing the wonderful Irish baby, so plump and so delicately fair. The Widow Hanstein, who lived in a spacious stone house on the hill, came herself to see the first-born emigrant child. Nothing would do but it must be named Christine, for herself; henceforth she lavished her kindness and affection upon the little favorite. 
                  When Christine grew tall and playful, she was the pet of all the neighborhood. Home was scarcely home to her, for she was as familiar with the nooks and corners of the old Dutch farm-houses, as with those of her own pleasant dwelling. Her favorite resort was at the sombre, stone house of her namesake. Widow Hanstein had parted with her four daughters, who were married and settled near her, upon adjoining farms. They had taken with them the slaves that had fallen to their inheritance, after their father's death, and now the widow lived alone with her remaining slaves. "Old Mam" and "Old Dad," were the most conspicuous among her retinue, both being far advanced in years. "Dad" was tall, still erect, and walked with firm footing. He was Christine's tine's favorite, for he was always delegated to bring her in his arms to make the frequent visits the lonely widow claimed. 
                  She was never so delighted as when taking tea out of the wee gilt cups that graced Widow Hanstein's round table, or when counting the multiplied objects on the shining surface of the old-fashioned, silver tea-set. Christine was seated in a high-backed chair, and just able to peep over the table. The old lady always sat opposite. She wore a close-fitting cap and a wide check apron, scrupulously smooth, even to the strings-an article of dress indispensable to her comfort. She chatted with her garrulous little guest, and complacently sipped her six cups of fragrant tea, now and then replenishing the child's plate with spongy bread, spread with snowy, Dutch cheese. 
                  When the tea things were removed, Christine jumped down from her high perch, to count the landscapes and figures that decorated the china settings in the jams of the huge mantel; laughed at her distorted image in the oval-topped and brightly polished andirons that curved out from the great fire-place; or measured the square tiles of the spotless hearth with her busy little foot. She was an amusing companion for the solitary widow, who claimed her as one of her own. 
                  But as much variety as there might be in this child-life, the days passed monotonously enough to Colonel Neilson. His thoughts were continually turning back to his loved, native isle, now that he had done all he could to embellish his new home. He would walk for hours in the garden, silent and dispirited; or, with Kathleen at his side, wander through the woods, where, seated upon the trunk of a fallen tree or mossy log, they would recall the happiness of their early years in Ireland. Kathleen sung ballads to sooth him; sometimes she tried to laugh away his melancholy, or strove to arouse him with her remonstrances. The three years passed on American soil, seemed to have deprived him of the vigor, ambition, and cheerful temperament that had been peculiarly his in his own land. The lively, radiant expression of good humor in his face, had given place to a dispirited, discontented look, which deeply grieved Kathleen. 
                  Their monotonous life was at length broken in upon by the unexpected arrival of one of Kathleen's relatives, Annorah Synton, now the wife of Hugh O'Neal. The latter was only known to them as one who had abandoned priests' orders for the sake of an unconquerable attachment to Annorah. Impetuous, passionate, daring to recklessness, he had rejected the Catholic faith, sacrificed everything, and dared the vengeance of his brotherhood, for the object of his adoration. He boldly swept away every obstacle that stood between him and his idol. 
                  The year following their marriage was one of continual danger. Repeated attempts upon O'Neal's life, though thwarted by his vigilance, warned him of the necessity of flight. An American home was decided upon, and, with a young child, whose beauty was a theme of wonder, they embarked for western shores. 
                  Their arrival was a sudden surprise to Kathleen, who greeted them with unbounded joy. Colonel Neilson, who had gone to sun himself in the good-humored and unvarying tranquillity of one of his Dutch neighbors, quickly turned homeward upon hearing the welcome tidings. With a gleam of pleasure that had not lit his face for many a long day, he greeted the sweet young wife, whose bewitching loveliness no longer left room for wonder at the beguilement of O'Neal. Then he smilingly approached his guest with the interest of welcome and congratulation, but, before their hands met in the clasp of friendship, an expression of utter abhorrence spread over his face, and his hand dropped, as if powerless. The blood crimsoned to purple in Hugh O'Neal's face, but he gazed steadily and undaunted at Colonel Neilson. For a moment, each scrutinized the features of the other. 
                  "We met near Elphin," said Colonel Neilson, significantly and sternly. 
                  "Will you betray me to Annorah? Do you want her to hate me?" fiercely replied the unwelcome guest. Colonel Neilson made no response, for the entrance of Annorah and Kathleen cut short what he would have said. Too much occupied in each other to observe the agitation of the gentlemen, they continued their lively accounts of long unheard of friends, and the experience of American life. 
                  When next Kathleen and Colonel Neilson were alone, he abruptly asked, 
                  "Kathleen, do you know who our guest is? Do you know whom Annorah has chosen?" 
                  "Hugh O'Neal-a Catholic priest that was. What more?" returned she, not a little surprised at the indignant tone in which the question was asked. 
                  "Enough more! He is the priest who cast that child into the flames! But for Annorah's sake, I would hunt him down like a wild beast. I cannot tell you the horror I feel in his presence." 
                  "Why, Dermot!" exclaimed Kathleen, too much shocked to say more. Tears gathered in her eyes, and both were silent till she asked,-"You surely will not betray it to Annorah. She is devoted to him." 
                  "No, no," replied he, impatiently; "I have not the heart to make her despise him. He tyranizes over her now, with his jealous love-what would be his hate if he lost her devotion?" 
                  Thus they buried the matter between them. O'Neal soon occupied a charming little cottage, on the opposite bank of the river, and as the business in which he had engaged called him, frequently, to a neighboring city, he had but little intercourse with Colonel Neilson; that little was restricted by a coldness for which Annorah vainly tried to account, till after occurrences explained the cause. 
                  Eighteen months had scarcely elapsed before death crossed the threshold of the O'Neal cottage. The beautiful child, whose life was twined with the very heart-strings of its doting parents, lay cold and dead in the small, cool parlor that looked out upon the river. Every one mourned for Alice, but none grieved more than the loving Christine, who had never come without her apron full of gifts, and would have enticed the little favorite into all her play-nooks, if the tiny feet could have moved fast enough. It was impossible to behold Alice and not wonder at her angel-like beauty. The transparent delicacy of the complexion, without the rosy glow of childhood, the perfect features and the tranquil, soft light in her blue eyes-each called forth the admiration of those who caressed her. All the old ladies in the neighborhood protested the child would not live, though none were prepared for the sudden and untimely death that disfigured the lovely face, as if to reproach the worship with which it had been gazed upon. 
                  She had attempted, unobserved, to peep into a steaming, boiling caldron, and, balancing upon tiptoe, grasped the hot edges with both hands. The quick spring of pain drew the caldron with her to the floor, and the scalding contents streamed over face, neck and the plump bared arms and shoulders. The agony and the shock were too strong for her delicate frame. She moaned, sank away, and died in a few hours. Kathleen was with the distracted mother; she carefully arrayed the beloved child in a snowy muslin robe, and laid her tenderly in the coffin. It was all done before the father, for whom a messenger was dispatched, arrived. He could not comprehend or believe the dreaded truth, till his eyes fell upon the motionless face of his only-his worshiped child. He stood deathly pale when he heard the nature of the accident. 
                  "I am punished-I am punished at last," groaned he, gazing wildly at his wife. She knew nothing of the scene that now called up the most agonizing remorse. "Tell her all-I cannot," he entreated of Colonel Neilson, who endeavored to calm his agitation. 
                  "No, she has enough to grieve for now. Be silent, Hugh," said he, in a low, but decided voice. 
                  Hugh O'Neal bent his head upon his folded hands and leaned upon the coffin. Thus he remained in silence for many minutes. When he raised himself, a look of strong determination was in his face, as if he had made some unchangeable resolve. He motioned every one to leave the room. Even Annorah, he directed to be conveyed back to her own apartment. Left alone, he locked the door and turned again to gaze upon the dead child. All the old superstitions and reverence for the creed in which he had been educated, returned and took strong hold upon his mind. He reproached himself for having become linked with the heretics. He believed this affliction had fallen upon him, not only in retribution for his cruelty, but because of his abjuration of the Catholic faith, and the violation of his vows. He resolved to make a pilgrimage to his native home in Ireland, confess, and receive absolution. Annorah must be abandoned-sacrificed. But of this he would not think now; enough that Protestants had prepared his child for burial. He would return now to his old faith. 
                  In a few hours he had removed all the fastenings from the child's shroud, lest it might receive pain, and carefully rearranged each article; placed a pair of tiny shoes upon its feet that they should not be bruised and bleeding while enduring the purifications of purgatory, and laid two long wax candles by her side, within the coffin. Four others he lit and placed at the head and foot of the little sleeper, after closing and darkening the windows of the apartment. 
                  Amazement and concern were depicted upon the countenances of all who entered, after this revolution had taken place. They believed O'Neal had gone mad. Kathleen looked on, and shook her head sadly; she understood the end. She grieved now more for Annorah than the lost child. O'Neal was moody and obstinate in all his arrangements for the last ceremonies. He had searched in vain for a priest; there was not one within fifty miles, and miles were not easily or quickly traversed then. He resolved to officiate, himself. No Protestant should touch the coffin of his loved Alice. He alone read the prayers, he closed the face from view, he carried her out from the home that was made desolate. Unaided, he prepared the grave, and, alone, lowered the precious burden into its narrow place. Preserving a stern heart and tearless eye, he covered it with the cold earth, laid the green sods upon the mound, and then knelt upon it to pray for the repose of her pure soul. 
                  Annorah did not see all this, for she lay almost unconscious in her own darkened room-a room she never left till carried forth by other hands. O'Neal continued silent and brooding for weeks after the death of Alice, until one day he announced to his invalid wife his solemn purpose to leave her, and go upon a pilgrimage, with the hope of relieving his mind of the intolerable remorse that preyed upon him. It was impossible to swerve him from his purpose. His wife's tears-the entreaties of her friends-all availed nothing. He tore himself away, though he knew it was the finishing death-stroke to Annorah; her life was bound up in his. Both knew they never should meet again upon earth-each doubted the eternal salvation of the other. Agonized at the thought of a separation through all eternity, Annorah clung to her husband with the strength of despair, till he forcibly tore himself from her convulsive grasp, and fled. 
                  Long before he reached the sea-coast she was dead. The tidings came to him the day before he sailed. He consoled himself with the thought that she never knew the revolting details of the deed that had haunted him, but her loss plunged him into still deeper melancholy. 
                  The long weeks and months of the voyage dragged heavily by. Each day he grew weaker under the intolerable weight of grief, remorse and self-reproach. He was but a shadow of his former self when he again trod the green sods of his native land; he trembled with weakness when he knelt at the feet of his old confessor; he died at last, breathing the name of his loved Annorah in entreaties to those who surrounded him, to say masses for her soul. 
                  What a dark belief! Pitiable mortals, those who are shrouded under its frightful pall; who, after an early education in its superstitions, its bigotry and enticing ceremonies, can never fully shake off its influence, however enlightened in after life. "What infatuated parents, who, for the sake of a fashionable education, will risk the simple, pure belief of the young hearts entrusted to their guidance, by placing them within the fascinating reach of Catholic worship. "What American mother can thus hazard a daughter, unless she wishes to bury her in a convent, or, what is equally deplorable, imprison and darken her soul in error. 
                
             
             
                
                
               Part Fifth. 
               LIFE'S SUNSET. 
                
                   
                   
                  XI. LIFE'S SUNSET. 
                  HALF a century! What a slow-moving monster in the distance! What a swift-winged bird when it has swept past! What a metamorphosis marks its skimming flight over the earth! It lays millions in their kindred dust, it makes the wilderness "blossom as the rose," and carries the hum of human life far into the vast forests. 
                  Fifty years! What desolation those years brought to the happy occupants of the Hoosick Valley! They are all gone now, and strangers tread the streets that everywhere intersect those beautiful farms. The old Dutch houses have gone to decay, or stand alone in sullen and gloomy aspect, as if frowning upon the new generations who pass by with a smile at the quaint, rude architecture. Where are the thrifty housewives? where the ever-laboring slaves? where the frolicking children? Kathleen and her merry troop-where are they all? We will look back through those years and seek them. 
                  The aspect of neatness, industry and prosperity, for which Oak Hill and the opposite valley had been remarkable during the superintendence of the first possessors, gradually gave place to neglect and decay, when the children grew to man and womanhood, with the exception of the few farms where the owners had themselves tilled the soil and educated their sons and daughters in labor and economy. They had been prospered in their diligence and frugality, and were ready to go forth into the world with strong hearts and firm principles of right and truth. But the descendants of those whose inheritance was the gains of slave-labor, exacted under the lash,-who, in youth, looked on in idleness or indifference-who were accustomed to have every order obeyed by attending servants-they became overbearing and reckless, sought pastime in dissipation that destroyed their energies, and squandered the wealth of their fathers, which should have replenished and improved their inheritance. At once incapable and unwilling to adopt the rules of economy and industry that had been the secret of the prosperity of their ancestors, they left the management of their farms to slaves and overseers, who ignorantly impoverished the soil, till it became worthless. Creditors claimed the property, acre by acre, and at last it had all passed from their hands, and they were left in indigence-a burden to themselves, worthless to the world-wanderers without the joy of having worked out the beautiful problem of an existence not lost to mankind, and an interior life of purity and noble aspirations. 
                  Kathleen remained for years in her home upon the banks of the Hoosick, not exempted from sorrow herself, while she watched with mournful sympathy those whom retribution had overtaken and was fast sweeping away. One was absent from her circle. He had gone long ago to sea, and the last tidings of him were, that he had been captured, with the rest of the crew, by an English man-of-war, and lay a prisoner in the Tower of London. Terence still remained, filling the manly post of protector. 
                  But one stroke, more fearful, more unendurable than all the rest, reached Kathleen in her valley home. It was the death of Colonel Neilson. The trials of her earlier days, the severing of a strong attachment to Ireland, the loss of the dear one of her cherished circle, and the uncertainty of the fate of her eldest born, were light afflictions to the keen agony of surrendering her devoted and noble-souled companion to the silence of eternity. A strong will and an elastic temperament-not Christian fortitude-had enabled her to surmount the depression of her first bereavements. She had not looked heavenward any farther than early education influenced her. She was not prepared for the overwhelming grief-the sudden rending of her very soul-the dismaying vacancy promised in her remaining days. Her own spirit seemed half disengaged in the desperate clinging to the loved one just escaped to immortality. It wavered-it returned-again it half took flight, and again revived her inanimate form. An over-ruling God restored her; the God who mercifully inflicted this crowning sorrow, when all that had gone before failed to secure for her the "pearl of great price." With restored health came a beautiful spirit of faith, love, and resignation, which grew lighter and purer through every trial of her succeeding life. Henceforth she sought to impart to those with whom she mingled the rich, new joy she had found. This was why she was called to the death-bed of the friend, who, at the first coming, had greeted her with a kindly welcome. But what a contrast in the scene that Kathleen looked upon, as she for the last time entered the Van Theusan dwelling to impart comfort, to what she beheld in earlier days, when she entered to seek cheering consolation! 
                  The Van Theusan farm had lost its thriving aspect. The fields were no more waving with full harvests, but were overspread with stinted grass and thistles, and half enclosed by broken fences. The places where the wheel had hummed and busy hands had plied the shuttle, were still and vacant. Even the yard was overgrown with tall, rank weeds, and only a crooked footpath marked the entrance, which, years ago, was gay with parterres of flowers. The house looked weather-beaten and desolate; the old portico was ready to fall under the crushing weight of untrained vines. Within was the same rapid decay that spoke of neglect and poverty erty. On one side of the hall the rooms were still and empty, the walls damp, mouldy, and stained with the rain that streamed through the crevices and broken windows during every storm. Upon the other side of the hall, an apartment, scantily furnished, had long been occupied by Dame Van Theusan, who had outlived all her family, with the exception of a grand-child, that abandoned her after securing the little remaining property. She felt that the wealth she had bestowed upon her children had borne a curse with it. She reproached herself for the harsh, cruel exactions by which she had gained that wealth. Her conscience gave her no rest as she remembered upon her death-bed that no adequate return had been made to her slaves for their life-long labor; that she had forgotten to care for their souls, in her eagerness to lay up riches for her children; that she had permitted them to live and die like brutes. It was this terrible awakening of conscience-this remorse for her past life, and the loss of the hope upon which she had relied till now, that made her seek Kathleen's earnest, heart-felt prayers. Kathleen did all in her power to soothe and comfort, but her efforts were of no avail. The dying woman moaned and screamed and prayed for mercy, yet darkness rested upon her soul. No hope dawned upon her, and her dispairing death-shrieks echoed through that lonely home, till her voice died out in the dreadful struggle. 
                  The Hoosick Valley, with all its painful reminiscences and its changes, lost the charm it had for Kathleen in the days of its luxuriance and cheerfulness. She soon sought a home far removed from the scenes of her first twenty years in America. 
                  The fifty years that converted the unassuming hamlet into a flourishing town-that transformed childhood into manhood, and manhood to old age-took from Kathleen all the remaining traces of her beautiful girlhood. They left long streaks of silver in her still abundant dark hair, and marked her face with countless wrinkles, as if in mockery of the freshness and fairness they had chased away; but her eyes were yet sparkling, quick, and expressive, as when in their youthful setting. She was vivacious and mirthful even in her old age-a mirthfulness that arose not from the thoughless indifference of early years, nor from sinking back into a second childhood, but it was the overflow of a glad, Christian spirit; the joy of one that had battled with grief of every nature-that had struggled through years of poverty when defrauded of her possessions in her widowhood-and had come forth from numberless trials, purified and glowing with a triumphant faith that could exclaim, with cheerful resignation in the deepest afflictions, "Thy will be done." No doubts clouded her spiritual sight. Her religion was no life-long, weeping search after God-no solemn assumption of righteousness; it was an unshaken shaken trust in the Almighty that took away all fear; it was an appreciation of His glory that made her behold the Creator in all his works; it was a love and acceptance of Christ that won for her the fulfillment of the promise, "If a man love me he will keep my words; and my Father will love him; and we will come unto him and make our abode with him." 
                  Old age is neither a burden, nor an ugliness, nor are weary years to be dreaded, when the soul has thus acquired perpetual youth. Bathed in the "Elixir of Life," it is strong and beautiful. Foolish were the wise men who wasted their years, long ago, wandering over the earth in search of a mysterious fountain whose waters they believed could give them immortal youth, when the talisman was in their own dwellings, or hidden among the musty books of a near convent! 
                  And this soul grows more radiant as it nears eternity. The idiocy of old age, though it may darken every other perception, cannot take away the sublime idea of God. There the Christian is triumphant. And if the faculties are retained, they are strengthened and supported by religion. The mind rejects trivial things, and is clothed with a dignity and sublimity of thought that makes manhood, as well as youth, regard the aged pilgrim with veneration. 
                  Kathleen lost none of her keenness of perception as she advanced in years. Powers that might have become dormant were sharpened and cultivated by her diligent study of the Scriptures. Hour after hour she poured over the pages that so wonderfully sound the depths of the human heart. She had found consolation there, in the depth of her sorrow and poverty, and those messages were none the less precious when prosperity overtook her. Her home was with Christine, now the wife of one who diffused freedom and cheerfulness in his household; this daughter had become the mother of a host of shining, happy faces, and the mistress of a beautiful abode. One of the pleasantest apartments was fitted up for the welcome presence of the venerated mother. It had an air of comfort and coziness that attracted the children, and there they frolicked and tumbled about her for hours, she looking on with laughter, or quieting them with Bible stories or tales of her own life, that had an exhaustless charm for the listeners. Before she sent them from her she made them kneel around her and say their nightly prayer, impressing upon them the charge to seek the Creator in their youth. 
                  Happy, too, were the merry Christmas holidays when all the descendants, even to the great-grand-children, assembled in the home blessed by her presence. The stately Azile, the good-natured Terence, the chubby little one that had changed to a woman, fair, slight, and quaker-like in her neatness, the image of her ancient quaker grand-mother, yet the matron of twelve sturdy sons and daughters-all were there except Joe, who, in manhood, sailed away upon the sea in command of a gallant ship. They had no more tidings of him, and believed he had gone down to the depths of the ocean, where the beautiful Mary slept with her golden locks outspread and floating, 
                        "Away from decay and away from the storm."
                     
                   
                  The little army of grand-children noisily counted over the gifts of Santa Claus, romped and tossed, laughed and shouted, all through the festive holidays, while the matrons chatted over the perfections of their respective young regiments, and Kathleen, busily knitting red and white stockings for the numberless little feet that ran to and fro in the play-room above, talked over old times, looked keenly through her spectacles when listening to the innovations of later days, sympathized in the pursuits and various interests that occupied the minds and hearts of those who had been cradled in her arms long ago, and thanked God for all that was happy and beautiful in their lives. 
                  Thus, marked by festivals, the old year went out, and the new year came in. Then came spring-time. The glad awakening of birds and flowers gave as fresh joy to Kathleen, emerging from her eightieth winter, as to the little fledge-ling who tottered after her, and for the first time reached out its fat, dimpled hand to catch the butterflies. Though trembling under the weight of years, she cultivated flowers with as much interest and eagerness as in her girlhood-far more, for now God spoke to her in every delicate petal, in every quivering leaf. "Consider the lilies how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin; and yet, I say unto you, Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field which to-day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?" Such were the words of Christ that involuntarily rose to her lips while she busied her fingers in training perfumed vines, or in freeing her favorite flowers from obtrusive weeds. She loved, too, to watch the gaily-plumaged birds building their nests, twittering over the tiny eggs, and gushing forth their sweetest notes in tribute to their Maker; in watching them she remembered that not even a sparrow falls to the ground without the notice of the Father. It was thus she taught the little ones who were always seeking her cheerful presence, to look heavenward. So, too, her wakeful night-hours were whiled away in contemplation of the wonderful glories of the heavens. Reclining upon a bed wheeled near the windows, she looked out upon the star-studded sky and upon the moon, as its mild, soft rays flooded the apartment. 
                  "My beautiful night-lamp never flickers or burns away," she smilingly said to Christine. And while she watched she prayed. Those who slumbered beneath that roof, unconscious, or busy in dreams, little thought they were solemnly borne upon her lips and heart to the throne of God. Those far away-all she loved-were plead for. Oh! who can deem the aged a burden and an unrequited care, when they thus stand upon the watch-towers of a household. 
                  The enthusiasm of Kathleen's youth still animated her. To behold anything beautiful in nature was enough to lighten her eyes and illumine her face with glowing admiration, because, in everything she beheld the Creator. In the morning or evening, in the still midnight or blazing noonday, she read eloquent lessons as plainly as if the pen of fire that traced the doom of Belshazzar upon the royal walls, everywhere wrote for her the kind messages of God. 
                  "Are you a Christian?" asked she of a young man who carelessly leaned against one of the columns of the piazza, where they stood one summer afternoon. 
                  "No," was his reply. 
                  "Do you see the sun going down yonder?" said she, pointing to the glowing sunset. "You are going down to the grave like that. See it sink-sink. You had better prepare." 
                  He could never forget that warning. Every sunset repeated it to him, long after she had gone to the grave. 
                  That same summer, the last thread was woven into the loom of her life. Day after day she sank away, impatiently waiting the welcome summons to immortality. Her children and her children's children assembled around her deathbed. A skillful physician, though an infidel, was also there. 
                  "Ah!" said she to him, impressively, "you need a physician for your soul far more than I need a physician for my body." He turned from her and wept. 
                   
                  Slowly life flickered and burned away. Joyfully she approached the verge of the unseen world, till her earthly torch went out, and her soul emerged into eternal day. Her form has lain in the tomb these many years, but the old Bible, with its well-worn leaves, which brightened her declining life, remains yet, a sacred memento and a happy reminder of many buried years of heroism and suffering, of gladness and love. 
                
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
