
    ----CITATION----
        Smith, Julie P., (d. 1883). Ten Old Maids, and Five of Them Were Wise and Five of Them Were Foolish .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7820
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Ten old maids, and five of them were wise and five of them were foolish 
            
               TEN OLD MAiIDS:

AlD

A NOVEL.

BY

JULIE P. SMITH,
AUTHOR O       -
"WIDOW GOLDSTH'S DAUGHTER," -"CHRIS AND OTiio," "TE WWIDOWER,-
"THE MARRIED BELLE," ETC., ETC., ETC.
.mw

NEW ORK.:
G. W. Carleton &amp; Co., Publishers.
LONDON: S. LOW, SON &amp; CO.
M.DOOO.TXXrV.

J,3'
3I'
V

A'

i
y         ,, r  , .
,
. .    -  ts
-
. _    7T
-.         _, " .

.  ,;               -
-
,:
ut
.,;;

.I;
{1
1.

lkpy'sq

IbR p  x Rilt  RtR     1ffiC  iTb jibt of ittz IUCXR  pp tb .


d(1v

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by
G. W. CARLETON             &amp;   CO.,
in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

Ji

DED ICA TION.

To
THE YOUNG PEOPLE OF .ESPERANZA,
WHO KNOW HOW
To BE MERRY AND -WISE,

AND ALSO
To BE HONEST AND TRUE.

K
- 5
j
t
; _
t
_4
t
"a
}  
! l _
i}}
1  3
i
u
t"
,
,
,         ,
. ,  .
:          i
e    }.

JoHNV .-TROW &amp; SON, PRINTERS,
205-213 EAST 1r2 ST., NEW Yoi.
Maclauchlan, Stereotyper,
145 &amp; 147 Mulberry St., near Gfrand, N. Y.

4  *

'ti                    _         t    r               nyt   .
t      "            "               r

a k                 :

'  -  r
4:

orj,

'-       ,
5.                _


-                                                                            --K       --
;  -                                   -          -
VUAPTER
- I.--Ten Old Maids ......
II.-"IF have lost my Eurydice "
III.-Rollin Dunwreath-" Dangerous
IV.--" ' He cometh not,' she said "...
V.-Groweth Seed and groweth Mead
VI.-A Boy at Baithquither.........
YII.-Candace in Trouble..........
VII-A Visit to' Sister Polly.
IX.-Granny Munson at Home.  .
X..-In the Wood-house Chamber....
XT.-" There's Nae Room for Twa"..
XITH.-Orehis makes up her Mind...
'                                                  XTV. -Cn Cormait P'Ami an Besoin...
XV.-Candace gets into Mischief. ....
XVI.-.Th  Buy e..............
XVIL.---The Great Gato is unlocked..
YVIII.-OrthodoXy at Home....
XIX.--" dJome up into-the Chariot of Li
' XX.- You a Preacher I A Woman !"
XXIL---Orchis takes Tea at the Blosoms
XXIL -IYr. Maftoon and the Paper Caps.
n&amp;&amp;Ip--or poofClytie I.. e.......
XXV-Goody 1Ruddocke Blessing. ...
XXV.--Techerk..tPwke;, {-d   ... Pupils
Sn   '_ s} . srv  -rtis*,' ,  v4 '   '   n,'"" 'r~. X X VI,. ,,  i"  E d  be  a  B utterfly.  1  5'  {   " .
,. ° '  y xis ';YM  ';i!   .7 ts..; ,x  ~ .'   .r ~ {rl$        -r   'r  }a, .i. , _r, ~x  -   '"+    F'   7  r "    '/'r  )    +,  - t   ----

r     I 3  - -
PAGE
............0  11
.... ....  ...  16
23'
"............23
...  ... .... ...42
*.................. 5
6
.  ..  ..  .  ...74'
....  ..
,... ... ...
,-.. . .......
~   ... ...............   25~
.........  .   63t
ove "...  ...
... ".. . .... ... -  28.''-
...


--
Vi11

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER
XXVII.-Uncle Zopher's Good Fortune....... ... ..........
XXVIII.-Mischief among the Roses................... - --,
XXIX.-Griselda walks by the Inner Light..a.*0... . . 0......
XXX.-Most Friendship is Feigning............-.- ..--  - - -  -
XXXI.-The Christmas Revels... ....0. .f.........  ..... .
XXXII..-Blush gets up a Menagerie.. .......... ........ . .
XXXIII.--What is lighter than a Feather ?..,.... .-..........-.
XXXIV.-Have you met the Honey-bee '.................... .
XXXV.-Vashti sets Broken Bones................ .....
XXXVI.-Beauty without Strength is Imperfection.........
XXXVII.-Orchis tries School-keeping..... . . ......"......-
XXXVIII.-Hunting and Waiting.......,."..............
X XXTX.--Philomen's Dog " Boaster "..e.........".......
XL.-Donald's First Walk..   .................      .
XLI.-" I have lost my Eurydice ".................. .
XLII.-Granny Munson's Money-bag..". ..................
XLIII.-Shut Up in Prison......................    ...
XLIV.-Goody Ruddock makes a Sensation..............
XLV.-Refined like Pure Gold....... .............-
XLVI.-The Majesty of the Law vindicated............e... .
XLVII.-" God shall judge between us, Clytie ". . . 9............
SXLVIII.-Conclusion................-... .-.---- -.-

PAGE
253
264
278
286
292
303
308
312
319
332
334
346
355
363
3,67
376
379
382
387
391
394
403

4 

:-
S

t
n
.y  -   .  ,

I HAVE on my table a slip of paper and I read this on it
"Please send preface to ' Ten Old Maids.'"
Now who can truly tell the heart-preface to one old maid ?
Men who look in the face of an unwedded woman are apt to
think she walks alone because none of his kind wanted her for
a life-mate ; but I believe few girls have gone far into their
twenties without being asked to marry some masculine crea-
ture ; I doubt not many die like the pale primroses, because
the right one never said, "Wilt thou?"
It is a subject of chronic marvel to me to note how men will
often pass by the noblest, completest specimens of womanhood,
and pick up for their having the silly, inefficient, 'vapid dolls,
who prove to be either "spaniel fools," or 4"mule fools," and
trammel and drag downwards their husbands from the altar to
the coffin.
Perhaps it is that law of life which always provides for the
lame and the lazy which so frequently ties the helpless, useless
female to the courageous, industrious man.
. Dr. Johnson says, " Men know that women are an over-
match for them, and therefore they choose the weakest or most
ignorant."
There are some women who never love but once, the dream

3
}
4
4
t "
"
)f
yT}
L
j}gq
Las
T
o

;_
kr
}    .F
y


x

PREFAGE.

I

of sixteen being the secret adoration of a lonely life. Some who
are not able to love at all, having set too high their standard
of manly excellence ; they are continually disheartened and dis-
gusted by the little selfish meannesses, the petty inconsist-
encies which will be visible upon even the best specimens they
meet.
Duty, which sets aside the rights of the soul, and devotes
all energies and capacities to weaker and dependent ones, makes
s me old maids; extravagance and costly living makes many,
the best and most unselfish man not daring to pluck down
into poverty the girl whom he finds surrounded by luxuries
which seem to him to be her necessities.
The folly of the five foolish is not set forth because folly
dwells alone among the spinsters, but because the individuality
of the spouse is so submerged in the husband that she is only a
minus quantity during his life, and a "relict " after his death,
never worthy the distinction of a parable.
But whatever may be the preface of old-maidhood, all honor
and love to the excellent and noble of the earth who are strong
enough to make a life worth living for themselves, who will
and do of their own good pleasure. Pity and  ympathy for
the tried and patient ones who stoop under other people's
burdens.
The best motto I know of for maids and wives to live by is
just this: "Pray and work."
JULIE P. SMITH.

'A

TEN .OLD

MAID S.

AND FIVE WERE WISE AND FIVE WERE FOOLISH.

PART FIRST.

CHAPTER I.
HAT a very delightful family are the Dun.
reaths !" said Mrs. Lewellin, after she returned
from a private admiration visit to the wedding-
presents of the eldest daughter, who was about to commit
matrimony. "And how admirably Clytie has managed
the family since her mother's death,-though, to be sure,
she has a perfect treasure in that great strong monster
of a 'Goody Ruddock,' as they call her. Anybody could
keep a model house with plenty of means, and such a
servant; I'm sure I could, and not half try, Strong
enough to manage a lunatic asylum, and forever drudg-
mnng! Well, some are made to drudge, and some to be

I
U

i


TEN OLD MAIDS

dredged for. A life of ease has never been my lot, al-
though I could wear fiumadidles and take my comfort as
well as. anybody. Let me see: Clytie is just twenty, the
twins are eighteen, that Oirchis is eleven and a half, and
Candace is ten this month. I knew their mother when
she was -a girl; I was her bridesmaid, and I've lived
neighbor these last ten years; and I must say they are a
most charming 'family. It is extremely fortunate that
Mr. Danwreath is so very rich, because, after having accus-
tomed his children to all the elegapices and luxuries of
life, they are entirely unfitted for any coarse striuggles
with existence; and now Olytie is going to marry
money: so there will be no break in her future, and I
suppose the twins will go on keeping house till they
marry money, and so on. That is the way it goes in some
families. I do declare things are not equal! Here my.
oor Roger has been a book-keeper all his days, and we
have been obliged to board ; and as fqr -our children, I'm.
sure they'd shine if they were in the right place as well as
those Dunwreaths. Heigho! Well, I must rip up my old
lavender, and turn it, and try to make it do for my Susie
to wear to the grand wedding. Poor Susie!"
A very elegant-home had the Bunwreaths, on the broad-
est avenue of a handsome city, where plenty had helped
good taste, and constant use had made all the costliness
home-like, and as essential to the comfort of the inmates
i substantials are to poorer and less fortunate folk.
Mr. Dunwreath was sitting in the library with his daugh-
ter, talking of her future.
This house, my darling, belongs to you children; I
boght it with your mother's money; and I have invested
Fi  balance n stocks which are as sure as any securities
h. _ be,.and which pay well."

MAIDS

Ia

136k     ,     .

4

He rose and unlocked a little ebony and walnut writing.
desk which stood on lion's claws: a bijou of a table, ex-
quisite in French finish. It had been the property of
Mrs. Dunwreath, and her husband was fond of sitting at it=
sometimes resting his chin in his hand, looking into the
mirror in its lifted lid, and seeing there not his sad, care-,
worn face, but a satisfying panoroma of the happy days
he had lived with his wife, the centre-figure of all his
memories, and sometimes, I think, a vision of himself,
lonely, unrestful, and merely waiting for the call to
come out of the valley and ascend into the sunlight of her
companionship. Once she had been from home a whole
month a little while before she died, and after his
daughters had tried all their arts to interest and cheer
him, they had gotten but this response: "To-morrow I
shall see your mother."  I chronicle this fact, because I
believe his to be a unique case, worthy to be noted. A.
husband who had never tired of his wife!
"Here are the vouchers, Clytie," said Mr. Dunwreath,
pulling forth a roll of papers tied with red tape., "I
want you to understand about them now, before you are
the head of. another man's house. I want yotn to
know that you are all 'provided for moderately: about
thirty thousand apiece, which will be enough for nonsense
money and charities, to say the least, if I should be taken
away."
"0 papa, don't speak of such a thing ! "
" Why not, darling i The half of my life is beyond
my reach, and I miss it. When you are all placed, and
my work is well and honorably finished, I shall not be
sorry to go. Oh no, dear, not yet! not yet ! Don't look-so
grieved. I shall live, I dare say, to trot your children on
myknees, though 'tis true death's thousand-doorssand

1

12

5}yam
yr
e5   t:
A- .4
i\5
{


V
Rr'' 3
1  R
K
'               r t
S,

open, and .I am as likely to stumble through one as an-
other man. You have been a noble .daughter to me,
Clytie, and I am not afraid to say that. you will be a noble
wife. You have your mother's ways: they comfort me
often: and you speak to me with her own sweet voice.
I feel glad there is this competence for my children safe
out of the business, there are so many turns in Fortune's
heell"
"4Are you in trouble, papa?" asked Olytie, anxiously
studying the face she loved to see complacent. "Has
anything happened?"
"Nothing, my child; and yet I could feel more satis-
fled if Collin were less fond of speculations; wild spec-
ulations, I call them."
"'Why do you permit them, papa?"
"It is not easy to prevent them, dear; he is the senior
partner, and so much older than I, and as pig-headed as
he can be. I don't apprehend any difficulty at present,
and I'don't know as I do.at all. There, there, darling,
don't let trouble-clouds come over your heart or your
pretty eyes. Now, tell me, are you satisfied to make a
g husband of this lover? Does he fill the bill?"
"Satisfed ? 0  papa! satisfied with  Donald  Mc-
Queen".
"No more words are wanting, my darling; well, God
=bless you! I am afraid it would be hard work for me
to find the man I could think worthy my wife's image.
I must let her choose for herself."
' Thank you, papa," Clytie answered, blushing a little,
but also quite clear-eyed. "I was the heart's desire of a
true man, and when it was revealed to me, I gave hini
my soul to ,keep. If I can only be to him what my
mother was to you, I.shall count my life a full. blessing."

"Yes, yes; a full blessing-that is the good truth.
You are able to be that to any man. I wanted to have
my talk with you ins this room; a -handsome room, is it
not, Clytie?  You must not let strangers have any of
these things, even when they are old and faded, and I am
turned. to dust. I want you to keep-every shred of car-
pet, every tag of curtain; I cannot tell how dear and
precious they are to me; your mother and I bought them
together ; we took a whole summer to it; we gathered
them from distant cities; we culled them at our leisure,
and made a pleasure-excursion of each purchase. There
is a story to everything; a sacred memory. Yes, yes,
that's right; thank you, dutiful child. .1I know you will
love them for our sakes; and some day I'll tell you all
about the good times which belong to them.. So my Cly-
tie sees no clouds on her rosy skyi2"
"None, papa; but if there were storms, they would
not frighten me, while Donald loves me ; nothing would
be too much to suffer with him or for him."
"Yes, yes; life does look fair for you. I hope and
trust you will be happy."
"Papa, I shall be happy as Donald's wife."

.. . -.. r ..  ... . as. r_.l: _

1s

i4

TRY- OLD," (AIDS,

TEN OLD --MAIDS.

11 f

L3  3Y
_Y
k   '
!!
' ,
r
1
_   ^
'S ,'
t
'  y .
Niq
.'"x
t
-    '
Y
_
3 i
P
f ,
I
r
P
2,

'.                      p r
.t                    _'}


1 HAVE LOST MY EURYDY.        1

CHAPTER II.

I HAVE LOST MY EURYDICE.-

" Oh, somewhere sweet unconscious Dove,
That sittest 'ranging golden hair,,
And glad to find thyself so fair.
Poor child ! that waitest for thy Love."

'C
,1

YOUNG girl arrayed in her bridal robes, gazing
at her other self in the mirror, thinks of many
things, beside the fit of her corsage, the fall of
the veil, the trail of the sweeping skirt, the droop of the
orange-blossoms, or even the effect of a wedding group
around the holy altar.
I believe few this adorn themselves, without trepid
dread of the life whose portal is ready to unclose for their
entrance, and a regretful back-look over the free girl-
hood to which they must make ready to say "adieu."
Clytiminestra, mostly called Olytie Dunwreath, saw heir
own face, rejoicing in its beauty-her symmetrical ele-
gance of figure and outfit--with absolute complacency in
its completeness: a complacency which floated all about
her, enwrapping in its rosy clouds the man she loved with
a love so abounding, so entire, so rich and ,sumptuous,
that there was not a shade of doubt, -a throb of fear, or a
di-ead of the future.

Donald McQueen stood to her for faith, goodness, dd-e
votion, truth, purity, and congregated excellence, bound
together in a bundle of manly beauty and manly consum-
mateness : a concord of endowments and attributes surpas-
singly excellent, so finished as to leave nothing to be
desired.
Clytie was possessed .in her own soul'of a rich share of
the good she saw in her lover. Though she was a girlof.
sound sense and fair discernment, 't never occurred to
her that there was a shade of possibility that the perfect-
ness she worshipped might be a reflection of her own.
qualities ; and if she had never put into words her esti-
mate of Mr. Donald McQueen, she felt all this and
more, concerning the delightful person who was without
doubt worthy the risk she was ready to take; and to hve
sullied the glory of being his wife by any regrets over
her girl-life, any sadness or griefs, would hate seemed to
her sacrilegious and abominable.
The eve of the wedding-day had shut in its shadows,
and it was through the radiance of gas-lights tha5t the
bride' saw herself as we told you, in her robes of white,
rare of fabric, elaborate of detail: beautiful, wondrously'
beautiful.
After awhile' she left behind her the exclamations and3
raptures of the twins, their caressing lingers, loving
words, fond kisses, as well as the slippings and jubilancer
of the children over the' approaching festival, and de-
scended to the library where she had held the business=
talk with her father; and promised him always to ire-
serve his beloved plenishing; 1and there he sat, thenan,
whose wife she meant to be, and to whom 'she desired to:
show her apparelling.
Such a remarkablAy handsome man was Mr. McQueen,

N"

1

_ Z.

1111.4


18        I HAYE LOST     Y EURYZJU.R
as to be worthy aparticular description  Symmetrical in
alU ways-in proportion, carriage, and color. Beautiful
eyss,-the truest almond shape, soft, flashing, eloquent.
But stay! there was a shade of strangeness just there, for
gone of those wondrous soul-windows was a liquid blue,
and the other the tawny hue of a lion's. You might look
a hundred times. in this Apollo's'face, and feel always
something magnetic in its fascination, without discerning
the peculiarity, the brows were so clearly lined, the
lashes so-long and curling; and when it did strike you,
yon were apt to wonder that all faces were not thus
F=arked because, instead of finding it a blemish, you
feltit a grace and charm. His hair was rich chestnut-
brown, his silky moustache and full flowing beard of the
same glossy hue.
Oh yes; undeniably Mr. McQueen was .a remarkably
handsome man, and the quick, glad approach and joyous
sunshine-flooded features which greeted Clytie's cormng,
looked like ardent devotion, and his words were musical
nature. Intentionally, perhaps, she went over and stood
beneath a superb picture of herself, in those very robes,
which hung beside her mother's counterfeit, in costly
frame, and she smiled archly as she watched her lover's
eyes comparing the real and the ideal.
"Is it like me, Donald ?" said she, after a minute's
silence.
"Beautifully like, dearest; it lacks but breath and
voice to round its'charm: perfect loveliness. I feel jeal-
ots of the fellow who could mirror my Beauty for other.
people's eyes. How intentlyhe must have studied each
feature! Ah, Olytie, I had the right to paint that pica
ture. I cannot let you sit again, ever. I should like to
[ veil it and keep it sacred-for inyself alone. I hate to know

t
;,
;' °k.
.. .r
:ter
;,  -
_.,s
..               i ,        .

_  4
a
,
;=
',,ij
i1
,
ti^a
a  at
tii
t ,s     P
i
. i'
}"
"          terry

I HAV TfLOST K|{Y EURYDICE.
that any eyes may gaze at will, and any lips speak their.
pleasure upon my Clytie. I wish I had a little wotld of
my own just big. enough to hold you and me, where I
could keep you all to myself-yon and your picture."
" We will have a world of our own, Donald, into which
no strangers shall ever enter. I feel the portrait a little
premature. I must confess to a sort of shudder when ,i
look at it; but so it pleases papa, I will be content. H
has hurried up the artist with a resolute determination to
have it hung before I belonged to anybody but him. A
whim. I hope no ill-omen will come to pass. I have
heard that a sad fate awaits a girl who presumes to show
herself arrayed in her wedding-dress to any mai before
her troth-plight has looked at her ; but I have no faith ifi
omens, and I feel sure no evil could come of obedience
to so kind a father; could there, Donald ?"
What ill could touch a creature so glorious as my
bride?"
"None, I hope. but stay, Donald; that will never do.
My best Good must not touch me now. You can oney
look. No, stand where you are, and I'll revolve before
you like a lay, figure on a pedestal; see, I go round a
round. Can you suggest anything to be added or sub.
tracedd"
"To add would be presumption; to take away one tiny
bud would be audacious."
" Oh, thank you. Your lips say so pleasantly what
your eyes look at me ; but you musn't put your hand on
my veil g you'll tear it: a gossamer thing, isn't iti"
"Is it woven in a magic loom, that I must not dare
approach my love? Go take it off, Olytie, and come
down to me, my own woman, not to good for hags an4
kisses.. Come in a soft dress, which is a part of ygui-sef;


2  HA I E'LOST ry Kurj

that azure thing which never rustles, and will bear touch-
ing, and we will ~finish our plan of route. Stay! P've
your passport here in my bosom; let me test its descrip-
tions.
" 'Light hair '-stupid ! failing utterly to designate my
Clytie's locks: silken thread of wondrous spinning, not
red, not yellow; pale flax dipped in amber, and pow-
dered with moonbeams. - ' Black eyes'-yes, black, like
night; like a deep lake; like the swarthiest gypsy's, but
starry-brilliant in their fair white settingof cheeks and
forehead, that they pierce my heart with their pitiless ra-
dince. .'Straight nose '-stupid again ! chiselled nos-
trils, thin, transparent ; a proud nose, a perfect nose.
' Small mouth '-Alh, Clytie! you should have smiled
at he might see your pearls of teeth ;--no, you should
  not smile on that fellow-all your smiles are mine.
Chin, nothing   in  particular '-dull wretch! blind,
bleared fool! not to discern that Clytie's chin has divin-
est curves, enshrining its rosy dimple, sweet home of
sses! Will you go, then? Must you? Well, come
quickly back; don't waste the golden minutes."
"Why, Donald! after to-morrow we shall"be always
together."
"To-morrow is not this evening. I wish to be happy
to-night with my Olytie by my side."
As she stepped away slowly up the stairs, full of the
affluent love which was all hers-in ]ir. McQueen, her
ears caught the sound of the piano. He was playing
" I have lost my E3urydice
with such roping chords and bewildering combinations
that she paused involuntarily. After a moment's charmed,
listening, she softly retraced her steps, as unwilling to go

quite out of the reach of the melody, out of sight of the
player ; and she came again and stood beside him while
his fingers flitted over the keys, watching his wrapt face
so absorbed in the harmonies he created, half unconscis
of her presence, half inspired by its atmosphere. After
a while he paused, and turned towards her, his eyes full
of tears, and extending his hands to clasp hers, he m
mured:
"O Clytie, how I love you!"
" Would you have looked back, Donald?9"
"When you, my Eurydice, was following meI I think
I could not lose sight of you even in Hades."
"There you would have lost me."
"No!.for I would have turned again amongst the
shadows and have shared your fate. My Eurydice! my
goddess Clytie! 'low wisely foreknowing were !your
parents to give you so sweet a name, which fits. you
"They called me ulytiminestra, Donald; a proud, horrid
feature, full of crime-a murderess. I hate it! I have
quarrelled with papa a hundred times for so blackening
me in babyhood. I am no water-nymph, no san-oweg
turning and turning ever to the royal lover whose smles
were for all. I have no fancy either to be Mado ytie
"Olytimninestra the husbandkel1er " repeated .lic
Queen, an almost imperceptible frown corrugating
fine brows; a dark displeasure lying within his stran
eyes, scarcely looking out of them, but hiding there and
le  g up a r a g       s     Thou shalt be no more
the treacherous: Greek, ,but Clio, the muse, the histo-
rian. Nay, nay ; I will have Clytie stillmueen, m-
wife. No name could, be so sweet to me, no ueen my
dear, no heart so true. There is a book entitled, 'Mar..

I1

20        I HAVE LOST 112'Y ElIRgDICbI.

2

Mme'


I HAVE LOST MY EURYDWIE.

ried for both worlds.' Will you have me to-morrow ast
bound to you for time and eternity also?  Say Yes, that
I may hold the tie everlasting which binds us-dont
smile, lytie; say Yes."
While you are true, Donald, my heaven will last;
when you turn false-"
"I will not let you say the word, Olytie ; the thought is
treason."
" So it is, Donald. I did not think to utter it: it came
unbidden to my lips; it lives not in my soul."
As Olytie floated up the stairs her face smiled, and her,
heart wondered at its own happiness.

CHAPTER III.

ROLLIN DUNWREATIH--" DANGEROUS.
T midnight a cry arose: "Fire ! fire! " The great
factory belonging to Dunwreath Brothers was in
flames; but though there was a vast deal of com
motion, there was little harm done;-but on going over
the premises a curious thing was discovered, which set the
whole neighborhood in a ferment. In the counting-room
were found bunches of cotton yarn saturated with' oil,
and pine splinters piled like cob-houses all around themn}
and a strong smell of kerosene overcame even the smoke
and must with which the general stir-ups filled. the air.
Ialf a dozen trains of fuze, extending about the room,
had kindled after all only a pile of papers and an old
yard-stick, whose light flame the night-watchman had
seen, and so sent out an alarmh in time to save the build-.
ing. But'one fact was evident, the fire was the work of
an incendiary.
"uWho did it?"  " What for?" were the questions dis-
cussed by knots of men, echoed by boys, and kept fly-
ing by many mouths. A rumor of impending failure
had been gaining ground, no one knew how, for a couple
of days beforehand, and a rush on the house proved
that their funds were short. Also it was found that they

22'

WI

r


4.ROLLIN DUYWREA Tf--" DANGEROUS."
were liavil insured. Mr. Rollin Dunwreath *was last
seen about the office; in fact, he had paid a late visit to
his desk ah hour or more. after he had bid Olytie good-
night, and had fetched thence a roll of papers belonging
to his private affairs, and had locked them in the ebony
writing-desk. The watchman had seen him fasten the
door, had spoken to him, and had got no reply, the gen-
tleman passing him with bent head and soft steps.
Mark had also seen him. Mark was a new weaver hired
by Mr. Rollin within the month; a down-looking, surly
fellow mean in face, in person, in dress ; his very legs
looked mean in their crookedness: they stumbled and
shambled as if used to running in evil ways. Before -ten
o'clock Mr. Rollin Dunwreath was arrested; the oflicers
came to his handsome mansion and carried him-off ; a
rabble followed their departure, hooting and howling.
The. young ladies and the children saw it all. He kissed
them, and left them an astonished group of innocents,-
scarcely comprehending the rude trouble, the impossible
event. After a short examination, in which Mark testib
i fled to having seen him, and the night-yatchman told
his story, the gentleman was carried to the jail; and it
was necessary to have out a guard to convey him thither
in safety, for the crowd of workmen and small creditors,
setting on the rabble, so threateningly surrounded the car-
riage, that there was danger of a riot and violence be-
fore the law could be brought to bear on the case.,
After it was over, and the prisoner shut in behind the
old gray stone walls, and quiet was restored on the
streets, Mr. Collin Dunwieath was closeted with the
weaver Mark, who was saying his say, standing on one
leg arid twirling his old hat, while his eyes wandered on
either side of him on the floor, as. if he were looking for

ROLLIN DUNWREATH--" DANGER0U ".

. a place to drop into out of sight. On one ankle he had
a running sore, which he kept bandaged, and he always
tagged that foot after him as if he felt a weight pulling
it backward.
"I want to be off immediately, sir," said he; "I don't
feel over safe or comfortable round here: I must- get on
a tramp. I've come to give in my notice and get my
pay, if you please."
He looked in his employer's face, as he said the word
"-pay," with an odd'glance, cunning and malevolent.
It was a dull eye too, pale and watery, and he wiped a
tear from the corner on an old cotton handkerchief.; and"
he had scarcely taken away his hand when another
gathered and dropped, and his lids were redand inflamed
with the acrid rheum which kept collecting there.
".Impossible, Mark !" retired Mr. Collin Dunwreath,
ducking his chin into his loose neck-cloth witk a motion
of irritation. "It would just fix the attention of every-
body upon us; we are watched on all sides now." You
must go on, with your work in the mill; there is not a
doubt of my brother's acquittal. They've got no eviP
dence of any account, and as soon as the trial is over
you my be off as quickly as you please..
" Yo  think Mr. Rollin is sure to come through
clear?17
Of course I do; why not?"
"Nothing, sir; but 'soriebody_ set the fire going; any.
body can see that ; and they'll ferret and ferret till they-
fix on the 'cendiary, to my notion. I don't want to stop;
I want my pay."
"I won't give you a farthing, Mark, till next week, I
tell you, so say no more about it; go and take your loom
before your-absence is noticed."
2

25


RO6fIN 'DU'     ?REATH-" DANGEROUS"
will not. do another strike, sir;'ve made up my
mind."
Very well;- if you are set on that, start. You can't
injure me and the sooner you are off the better ; and it
don't be twenty~four hours before the sheriff is on you,
and then you ma whistle for your body. I shall concern
myself no more about you."
Shan't you, sir? What if I should split on you: tell
what I done, and who set me up to it; and what he
promised me for iti That would make a heap of differ+
ence to Mr. Rollin. I hate to see him put in prison;' he
never did -naught to me"
All you could say would only injure yourself, you
foolI You don't want to walk into a cell straight out, do
fo ls  Yuyou?"                 y
n course I don't, sir. I was only saying what. I'd
"have to do in case I got into trouble, and what company
I'd engage to bring along with me. If you pay me now
and let me go, I ain't afeard, and I'll keep your secret,
Mr. Dunwreath, along of my own. "But I won't stay
here, that is the long and short of it. I ain't a-goin' to
wait for 'em to worm round and smell me out like a  fox
in a hole. I'm set on a tramp across country just as soon.
'ar.. ILa get my wages.
a    eor parner bit his nails while he peered out of
half-shut eyes at the iean,. dogged fellow who turned his
red eyes at him from time to time, and then dropped his*
lids, twitching hither and thither, slouching, seeking
something he did not find upon the floor. The tool was
unsightly, and the gentleman, felt disgust in his neigh-
borhood. The end of the conference came at last, and
the weaver Mark hid away a roll of bank-notes in his
dirty vest before he left the office.

ROLLIN DUNWREATH-"DAGEROUS.
All right, Mr. Dunwreath, sir," said he, with his hand
on the knob; " I've kept a lot of secrets in my life, and
I'll store away yourn among 'em. You needn't be afeard.
You'll never see Mark no more. I hope Mr. Rollin will
come off safe. I s'pose his interest in the mill'll be all
square when he does."
"What do you mean, fellow?"
"Oh, nothmi', sir;; there's queer tales amongst the hands:
they do say his brother is feathering his nest out of Mr.
Rollin's share. The hands all like Mr. Rollin; he's a fine
man to work for; he is too easy by half. I feel kinder
sorry for him, I do. If it wasn't jest as it is, I should like
to stay and see how he thrives. Good-day, sir; best be
keerful about fires, hadn't you, sirl there's such a lot pf
cotton thrums and pine sticks scattered all round. Pd
keep a watchman, if I was you."
Mr. Dunwreath felt a .cold shiver in all his bones as
thelame weaver went off grinning, and turned for a last
dlookat the "boss?': such a mean, nasty, treacherous devil
as leered from his watery eyes; his mirth was so insulting.
The senior partner threw up the windows and let in a
stream of cold air, the place seemed so pervaded with
sneaking crime, cowardly rascality. It took'a good many
ducks of his chin into the spotless choker to make him
feel at ease.
Circumstantial evidence convicted Mr. Rollin Dun.
wreath. It is astonishing how little will answer to convince
an unbiassed jury, when their minds are made up before'
hand. In this case it certainly looked thin, but they ac-
cepted it. The crash and failure of the mill inflamed
people's minds so much, that it was as necessary for then
to have a victim as for Moloch on his high feast-day; and
once. they fastened on this partner, public opinion never


28     ROLLIN DUNWRIATH-" D TfROa
veered. It would have been all the jurors' lives were
worth ;iot to convict him: they thirsted for an example
in high life-common felony was stale, not worth running
down.
All this man's blameless career told against him. The
very minister under whose preaching he had sat so many
ears to whose comforts he had a thousand times con-
tributed generously out of his abundance, shook his head
and said:
"What a pity to steal the livery of the court of heaven
to serve the devihn."
Perhaps the good man was not wholly to blame ; Mr.
Collin had paid him a visit, during which he had wept
copiously, as he related his peculiar trials, and comforted
his sad soul in the sympathy of his shepherd ; but the
after-vis# of the minister to the family was certainly out
of taste, as you may perhaps judge from his closing re-
marks :
"   u can always feel comfort, my young friends,if you
are c ut off from an unworthy parent by his own wicked
act, that he was an excellent provider ; and if you want
me to come and pray with -you sometimes, send and let
-nme know, and I'l come."
At the trial, poor Rollin's own straightforward state..;
ment went against him: He had been in the mill at an
unusual hour; had removed private papers; could give no
reason for this act which satisfied the enlightened jurors,
as he chose not to proclaim to the curious the fact that he'i
cairied them home, because he felt them more safe there
than in the power of his elder brother.
Mr. Collin went about with his head bowed like a
bulrush. People noticed that he never smiled, and whis
pered, " How he takes the disgrace I" At the trial he used

ROLLIN DUTNWREATH-2-DANGEROS."
up numberless handkerchiefs with his plentiful tears
-and much sorrow was felt on his account; and curi-
ously enough, no sooner was the affair completed-the
prisoner disposed of--than a rumor got somehow in circu-
lation of a good sum of money-enough, it was said, to
beggar the already impoverished man-which had been
offered to the jailor, to buy the felon's freedom. This the
jailor stoutly denied; but it kindled ,a new interest in, and
sympathy for the faithful brother who was willing to share.
his last cent with a wicked hypocrite who had caused so
much misery, and deserved no such treatment at his hands.
The creditors felt the influence of the generous family-love,
the forbearing self-denial, in this chivalric gentleman; and
the senior partner was enabled to compound on easy
terms, and start the works afresh, almost immediately
after.the convict was shut behind the massive walls which
deaden all groans, all human cries of anguish, as well
as all human hearts outside, which might listen and pity.
Mr. Collin had an interview with the condemned. The
day he was removed, shaved, invested with the danvning
stripes, shorn, of his manhood; he received the first-born
of his mother. The jailor and keepers were within call,
and it was as well, perhaps, that they stopped.
"You know, Collin," said Clytie's loving father, "ou
know.that I am not guilty of this crime. Why you desire
to put me out of your way, I do not understand. I have
never willingly crossed it. I believe I know who is guilty,
but I have no proof. If I had, I should bring it forward.
I would not perinit myself to be sacrificed, if I could help
it. I feel the not: I am sure who cast it: but what good is
to come of the act I cannot imagine. I want to say good-
by to-day. Don't you ever come near me in my new place.-
I couldn't answer for myself, if you should. When the,


ROLLIN .DUNWREATHI-".DANGEROUS."

3I

restraints of. decency and self-respect are taken off a des-,
perate man, such a devil enters into him as is quite likely.
to spring up with opportunity, and I might clutch a guest
by the throat. Brotherhood wouldn't go for much there.
My children! God love themI! Quick I out of my reach,
before I tear your false heart from your body, and train-
pie on it ! I have a clean soul. Get out of my sight, or I
may die a murderer!I"
The sailor and keepers were as much shocked and as-
tonished as their trade would let them be, with this unnec-
essary outburst, and they listened to hear how the hand-
some portly visitor in broadcloth would reply to the felon
in stripes&amp; You see, a body in rogue's' uniform has a
rogue's soul, and the stereotyped reply to a prisoner who
protests his innocence is, "Of course-they all say so-
and we believe 'em." They edged a little nearer the two,
so much curiosity did they experience.
"I make due allowance, Rollin, poor fellow ! for your
situation, for your rebellious state of mind. Since your sin
has found you out, I am sorry for you. I could gladly for-
get my own unpleasant position. It is hard to feel that I
have a brother under sentence of law. I wish I could
save you; but repentence would better become you than
this strange language--this abuse of your elder-who-"
A quick spring, a clanking of handcuffs, a heavy thud,
and Mr. Collin Dunwreath lay sprawling on the floor: his
spotless linen was grimed with the dust and with the
blood which spouted from his face. A gyve makes a good
gash in' a desperate stroke, and all the balance of his ad-
mired life, Mr. Dunwreath carried a scar on his cheek
from the blow dealt him by his unworthy kinsman.
le did not court reference to it; he covered it as well
as he could with whiskers; but it was there: and when,

men did speak of it he always looked grave a'id sad --not
stern, but sorrowful.
He was tenderly raisedfrom his grovelling-beneath the
blazing eyes of the convict, lifted in helpful arms, and
well cared for.
The prisoner was raised also: he was kicked and knocked
on the head, and had oaths in plenty launched at him,
and, worse than all, he had his name entered on"the
books, with "Dangerous " tacked to it. This quiet gen-
tleman, who never hurt a fly, who was the walking ens-
bodiment of all sweet gifts and tender graces, in his
whole life a blameless, pains-taking Christian, excellent in
lovingness and good works, was written down "Danger-
ous," and his prospects of prison comforts looked dreary
in consequence. -/

xI

1

1            i,1 .     _

ROLLIN DVNWRRAT. --t i 13AYGERO US


"HE COMETH NOT," SHE 5A1D.

33

CHAPTER IV.

C HE COMETH NOT, SHE SAID.

ifE day of the fire, which should have been
Clytie's wedding-day, found her alone with her
sorrow: scarcely sorrow as yet, but astonishment,
bewildered anxiety. After waiting through weary hours,
for the bundle of manly beauty and manly consummate-
ness to come with his sufficient strength to support her,
his munificent love to console her, she sent for him at
evening ; and, having sent, she gave the last touches .to
the dress ,he liked so much, and which she had put on at
his request, when she laid off her bridal robes.
A soft clinging crape of palest azure, a shawl of filmy
lace, which she had draped about her after his first kiss,
and of which he had tied the knot at the waist in the back,
passing the costly fabric over his white hand, admiring
the clover-leaf pattern worked into its fine meshes: "Is
it hem-stitch Olytie, this delicate thing ?"  That was
the silly question he had asked, all unskilled in needle-
women's phrases. She smiled to herself as she remem-.
bered it, and how very handsome he had looked at the
moment ; and also when he added: "Always wear such
dresses, Clytie; it suits my darling's wondrous loveliness.
'All rich and rare fabrics, all costly jewels must 'be

hers. Truely, never saw I such eyes, such hair, such sup-
pie stateliness ; and my nymph in blue is an angel of the
azure."
Ridiculous 'nonsense, of course, to outsiders, yet I know
sensible women who listened to worse, and glowed at it, in
their hey-day of youth and courtship. I mention this to
excuse Clytie for the liking she cherished for the dress.
Having been praised by the manly bundle, it became
thenceforth sacred and precious, even to the lengths of
ribbon which snooded her amber tresses, and the tiny
bows which held her breast-knot.
She stood a long time before the mirror pitying her-
self, her father-dreading for herself and for him-not
taking in any possibility which would doom him at last ;
but the trouble vexation, and interruption of their lives.
Slowly, very slowly, there drifted among her thoughts
a dread of the wreck of her best hopes-not precisely a'
doubt of her lover, but a dim dawning of the ideas; that it
would be proper for her to delay her inarriage: yes, of
course that must be----and also to offer freedom to her be-
trothed-that did not filter into her musings till she was
weary with waiting, and still he came not, even in an-
swer to her message.
A swift footfall on the pavement, a ring at the door
bell.' He was come, he was at hand. She flitted down,
the stairs. She met the servant, who offered her a sealed
note ; she tore it open.
" Gone to Europe."
This only on the ,back of one of the manly bundle's
visiting cards-" to be given if called for."
It had been called for; it. had done its mission. Clytie
.did not faint. The girl who had Waited for the effect -f
the missive, curious of her betters, after the manner o
2*


34         "HE COMETH NOT," SHE SAID.
her kind, carried away from her mistress' presence a mem--
ory of her eyes-such jetty blackness, such dazzling.
light, such an instant death of womanly tenderness, such
demon-birth asparkled from their intense depths; cold,
pitiless, outside of all sympathy with humanity.
Carefully folding the azure robe, the lace shawl, the
blue ribbons, the bunch of rose-buds, she laid them away,
and atop of all she pinned the parting gift of her adora-
ble lover..
"Gone to Europe."'
Also, Clytiminestra carefully packed the bridal dress,
orange-blossoms and gossamer veil, the elaborate trousseau,
every article which was linked by any memory or associ-
ation with the bridegroom; and with a turning of a key
she locked him and her past with him out of her life. She
never mentioned his name. If it was spoken in her pres-
ence, she nor paled nor flushed; a marble face could, not
be more emotionless, more set and stony.
She neglected none of her.daily duties: she ordered the
'household, presided at the handsome table, comforted her
father in the jailgsat beside him in the dock,.and at-
tended him to the prison.
Dimly,.yet fixedly, as something belonging to that ter-
rible trial-scene, came always afterward to her mind the
vision of a small man-meagre, mean, sordid, in grey
clothes-who sat crouching with his chin in his hand, away
in a far, obscure corner. She saw him wipe his eyes on a
dirty cotton handkerchief when her Uncle Colin wept
aloud. He, the meagre man, was not grieved though, nor
synpathetic, because she felt, rather than saw, a derisive
grin on his treacherous mouth. All through that hideous
time he was. there, in the same place, watching, waiting,
following every motion of the elder brother, portly and

"HE COMETH NOT," SHE SAID.
personable, with the vigilance of a skulking cat, blink-
ing at the prisoner, eyeing the judge, scanning the un-
biassed twelve, leering at herself, gloating pver the
whole. His lanky, faded hair, his grimy, horny knuckles,
his discolored teeth, and scrubby beard, even the untidy
knot of a red-silk scarf he wore twisted around-his skinny
throat, were made especially obvious, during the pellucid
charge of the "most just judge," by a slant ray of sun-
shine, which glanced across him; and as long as Clytie
lived, she was,'forced to take this wearisome wretch into'
the terrible ordeal of that hour, with every wave of mem-
ory which surged over her unwilling mind. She saw
him in her dreams, coerced to turn from the sad eyes
seeking hers for rest; the dear, fond eyes, ever loving
even in their deepest despair, to meet those bleared, perfi-
dious ones. When at last the dreadful trial closed, and
the awful verdict smote her ear-the knell of doom-
"Guiltyh": she knew that he slunk away, and his last look
as he turned his head at the door was .upo  the two
brothers-one a responsible citizen: the other a miserable
outlaw, so apart from his kind that nothing cpuld ever
set him in his lost place among hisFpeers again; no after
act of the worshipful court, however just, however merci-
ful, ever restore what they had taken away, ever atone
for the disgrace they had put upon him. I have heard
that the judge's wife, a good woman and true, was much
troubled in her mind over this trial and its decision, and
that she begged and prayed her husband to look into the
evidence more closely, and that he promised her to do so:  J
but it being the eve of a great political contest which
promised him preferment, he disliked to raise up for
himself  any enemies-and also his own affairs became
suffirently engrossing-he being obliged tonight the op


36"HE COMETH NOT," SHE SAID.
posing candidate tooth and nail-it is not remarkable that
the minor interest of a felon dropped into insignificance.
As Clytie emerged from the place of infamy into the
court-jard of the den of  criminals, with her sufferer
leaning heavily on her slender arm for support-he who
was about to be cut off from all love, all consolation-she
walked 'erect, thinking only of the dear, dear father by
her side.
She heard one of the women--'of whom many, drawn by
horrible curiosity, were thronging the place, gazing upon
the victims-say to a friend:
"Why, there are trees-here which look as if they might
have birds on them."
"Yes; jail-birds," replied her neighbor ; and all within
ear-shot of- the smart joke laughed at-it. Mirth seemed
sickeningly out of place in this haunt of sorrow and evil;
this lawful torture-house, where men are put to be pun-
ished, not reformed. But Clytie felt nothing they said,;
they had no power to touch her. She had heard jests
among the lawyers and loungers, and chuckles from the,
judge while her gather's life hung trembling~in their legal'
balance. All were alike indifferent- to her; even the
comments upon her personal appearance, such as touch
the sensibilities of women most vitally, even after grief
has no more work to do,3ropped upon her ears un.,
heeded.
Mr. Dunwreath never made but one mention of his situ
ation and prospects to his daughter, and that was while
she sat outside on the lonely bench, waiting forhim to.
get his ticket and call to his new hair-dresser and tailor.
" Clytie," said he, reaching through the bars, taking her
Eands in his and looking straight into her still' eyes,
"Donald is gone; you are alone?'"

"HE COJIETH:NOT," ShE SAID,        37
"Alone, father-I think only of you."
"Can you bear it all, poor child. Can you live till ]
die?"
" I can live, father. If I could give my life for yours,
I would- do it-assit is, I am all yours as long as you can
think of me."
"One last word, Clytie-a true word: look straight into
my eyes; let me see your full, penetrating glance upon my
face while you speak it,-am I a guilty man to you?"
" No, father," she answered quietly, without tears or
change of countenance. "iNo; you are a victim: only. a
little. ahead I see-you a martyr."
That was just before his brother Collin came to take
leave, and the great tears which gathered into his unwill-
ing eyes as he watched his beautiful girl so wrecked in ier
happiness, were still unshed, when the free, prosperous
gentleman, magnanimously appeared -to enact the great
and good man, in the presence of admiring witnesses.
After the gates shut the convict in, Clytie- came con-
stantly to the grating. Sometimes she could not get to
see him; he was sick ; he was under arrest; or the sov-
ereign will of the autocrats of his fate denied her because
they had the power, and loved to make her feel its smart.
That is human nature everywhere. "Dressed in a littl(
brief authority," it will strut and stagger, and grindthe
faces of the underlings. The best are quite as apt to be
dogs when  they arrive at- the safe place, as was the Qd
Jew who lauded his virtue, till he got the throne, and
then bit and snarled and devoured at his leisure.
Weaving did not amuse or interest the prisoner, who
possessed no mechanical skill, and brought no kindliness
twhiis enforced task. lie never broke the speaking rules;
he never looked up at his fellows; he made no answerd


" OE N S "  OETH NOT," SHE SAID.

when addressed Gby his keepers ;'ie lived in gloomy si-
lence-alone,.apart, brooding, glooming, black, "danger-
ous." He was continually up for punishment. .Blows
andkicks made no impression on him; starving could not
alter his behavior. He came out of the "black hole "- (a
private retreat where were bestowed contumacious men,
whom it was desirable to punish; the dead were also
kejt there, who dropped off from time, till they were
ready for dissection, or mercifully handed over to friends.
It was not a gay place to men ; blind-worms liked it, and
slimy crawling things: but as the only light came through
one brick-space, they could not be seen, only felt; one
sense was not offended)-R--olin Dunwreath came out,
staggering hither and thither ; cadaverous, as he should be,
who comes from the home of corpses; holding by the wall
for support,-or tumbling over when his limbs failed him,
which down-fall afforded great mirth to turnkeys and
other sub-officials-ghastlyglee in a ghastly place. But the
trips and stumbling were the failure of the weak, mortal
body. The hidden soul they had not touched; they never
found it by their most racking persuasions: those gentle
reformatory influences, which our Christian laws provide
for the salvation of our human brothers. God do so, and
more also, unto those cold-blo'oded torturers in their ut-
most need!
It took only a few months to finish off the weaver, and
though the sovereign state failed to reap her anticipated
profit from his bones and sinews, and the unlucky con-
tractors were absolutely out of pocket,-his work was so
ill-done,-yet he did not much impoverish the treasury,
for his keeping could scarcely be counted. Cold water
is not an expensive beverage, and cold water was his
principal consumption; the black bread lie soaked in it,

being hardly worth weighing, he took so extremely little
of the mouldy luxury. Always a nice and dainty eater,
he could not readily swallow!tainted meat, or the inevita-
ble beans. They were too bind to permit him to starve,
however, and the stomach-pump they used must have
been an engine of mercy and benevolence.
Finally, one day, the grandees came together to sit ii
state and preside over the punishment of the contum
cious wretch, who had failed in his task. Satan came
also,-fie! what am I saying !-I mean the Prison Doctor,
whose business it was to stop the recreation at the pre-
cise moment before the shrinking soul refuses longer to
share the tortures of her mortal keeper. Civilization has
advanced that far, since Inqisition days. I don't know
that they sanctioned the presence of a physician in the
dungeons where they kept the racks, the thumb-screws;
the pincers (not one of them more terrible than the crown
which is in use in the retreats of our country). Let us
be thankful for such a spirit of progress in our times, and
pay willingly the salary of the M. D. who earns his
money. The overseer had a complaint, "poor weaving."
Everybody had a-grudge. The keeper said, he "couldn't
help kicking the convict, he was so bad-tempered!"  ,
at the same time, there was an old offender there, wh
knew, the inside of all the prisons in the country, who was
always re-committed as soon as released; who had many
privileges. He was a great favorite; made coarse jokes,
got off his task easy. In ancient times, one Barabbas was
called for by men in preference to the world's Example.
Well, it won't take many words to tell Rolin Dun-
wreath's end. He was adjudged to the cistern, some in.
vention of the Devil, where the victim must pump or die.
They said, he would not pump.; perhaps he could not, for

2}  . t i
t

c c .  COME TMNOT," --8H SAL P,

as


40

"lIE COMETH NOT," SHE SAID.

he was pretty well brought down from his royal manhood
by this time, so that. lashes, curses, and hard knocks
seemed scarcely to touch him. At any rate he did not
try to hold on to existence, when the handle of a pump
was offered him for the purpose; and they took his life-
less body from their infernal contrivance, and putting it.
into a rough box, sent word to his daughter, that she
might take away the dead weaver, who had signally
failed to be useful under their contract. This was very
kind,. because such remains are the lawful property of
surgeons, who cut bodies and jokes at the same time,, and
become learned and scientific with the repulsive occupa-
tion.
The head grandee attended a tragedy that same even-
ing, and wept over the hapless fate of the beautiful hero-
ine; and they all ate of the body and drank the blood of
their gentle Master on the following Sabbath at the holy
communion of saints. Nay two of them offered the sa-
cred emblems to Christ's followers; but they had changed
their prison clothes, and washed their hands, and most
likely their consciences, since the murder of the weaver.
Clytie did fetch away her father, dear and precious to
her through all, a martyr as she had foretold. The end
had come a little sooner than she had looked for, but she
was almost thankful; the wicked had ceased from troub-
ling and the weary was at rest. She washed the scarred
and marred image,of God, so wretched in its emaciated
wofulness that scarce any trace of his majestic father-
hood remained, and shrouded it for the grave ; no hands
but'hers touched it, no eyes saw its sad state; and when
her task was finished, she sat down beside it, and gazed
steadily and long into the wide-open eyes, which no
friendly hand had closed after their last life-look. Who

" HE COJETH NOT," SHE SAID.

41

can tell what were the thoughts, the resolves of this young
girl, so quiet, so emotionless, so pale like death ?
People said they would not have believed Clytie Dun-
wreath was so sharp at business. She was sharp, and she
proved herself capable. lNr. Colin found her so, when
she steadfastly persisted in looking over the bQoks of the
mill. He felt it unpleasantly, when her eyes, intense in
their vivid blackness, looked into him, while he assured
her, that "the business had come to so bada pass before-
before poor Rolin's-misfortune as to leave nothing, ab-
solutely nothing for the heirs." He felt it, when she de-
clined his offers to settle her affairs, and take care of the
property secured to them by their mother. He felt it,
writhed under it, when she put coldly aside his visits of
condolence and sympathy;. refusing to recognize any kin-
dred or ties' with him or his.
She left her dead packed in ice, while she made a jour-
ney alone. Returning at night, very pale but full of power,
she dispatched it at midnight, per express, to its final rest,
where, none of her acquaintances knew, or when; as it
was left in a distant depot till called for, and being called
for at midnight again, its destination was not even
guessed.
Having settled everything,-scrupulously obeying her
father's wishes concerning the little nook of a room, which
he and his wife had loved so much, even to the picture of
herself in bridal robes-she left her childhood's home
without a sob,: making no farewells, shedding no tears,
even when placing the last flowers\on her mother's grave;
and the-Rolin Dunwreaths were as dead to the people of
the town, as if they had never existed.

0


GROWETH SEED AND BLOWETI! MEAD.

SECOND.

CHAPTER V.

GROWTH SEED AND BLOWETH MEAD.

"Summer is a-coming in, loud sing cuckoo:,
Groweth seed and bloweth mead, and springeth the wood anew;
Sing cuckoo, cuckoo.
Ewe bleateth after lamb, loweth calf after cow,
Bullock starteth, buck departeth, merry sing cuckoo.
Cuckoo cuckoo I Well singeth the cuckoo;
Sing ever, stop never: cuckoo, cuckoo,
Sing cuckoo."
WO adjoining farms, whose acres are counted by
hundreds, both " landscapes with cattle," both
beautified by running brooks, by waste places of
wild vegetation, where Nature loves to run riot and scatter
marvels of her handicraft of bud and blossom; but both
under excellent cultivation, both admirably fenced, well-
wooded and fertile. Everybody said it would be difficult
to decide which looked most thrifty and prosperous, or
which lay most charmingly in green meadows.and yellow
grain-fields, or which would bring the better price in
market.

43

Baiquither spread southward and bounded its neighbor
on the north, and the great square stone house fronted the
east, and looked toward the rising sun. It dad been reared
by an old Scotch couple, who had come hither in their
ruddy youth, and so grown into the rooms with their
bustling presence, that their memories never took leave,
even after their grown children had witnessed the close
of long lives of usefulness and work, and had laid them to
sleep side by side in the old kirkyard, and their two sons
(still called "boys" by their five sisters) reigned iA their
stead.
The McWhirters carried on the farm, piling up money
with true Scotch thrift. They pillared the church, stand-.
ing sure and firm on the old Calvinistic dogmas, looking
out very sharp after lapses from stony orthodoxy and
Presbyterian government, and they kept the minister in
countenance by their presence, counsel, and substantial aid;
diligent in business, serving the Lord. Such cheeses were
nowhere pressed as in their dairy, such butter nowhere
churned, such yarn nowhere spun, such carpets nowhere.
striped.
Balquither was a favorite gathering-place for the Cherry
Brook young people, and the moonlight drive thither of
two or three miles was a, most enjoyable prelude to the
sprightly evening amongst the bright, witty McWhitevs,
who had inherited enough of Gaelic accent and Scott'- h
drollery to be the liveliest of entertainers.
There are many gentlemen and ladies scattered up and
down the land who cannot meet without talking over their
Balqither frolics. The sugar parties, pic-nics, paring
bees, huskings, and kindred festivities, they shared with
their merry youth, when to laugh is .as easy as it is after-
wards to sigh; before the dimples had all stretched down,

PART

Ar     {       l


44     GRO WETI SEED AND BLO WETS MEAD:
to wrinkles, and a question had not yet arisen, whether
or no white hair was becoming?
There was a good deal of Gaelic beauty among the sis-
ters, which lasted them far beyond their teenhood, crown-
ing their woman-life with mtajesty and glory. Arabella's
syminetry of figure and harmony of proportion gave
her a remarkable presence, even after her freshness was
gone. She looked extremely well out of doors of a morn-
ing in her trim-fitting gown, training over the keeping-
room windows the ancient vine of Matrimony, which
she was wont to say "flourished passingly on the outer
wall, but should never get leave to thrust so much as
a tendril, or a modest wee purple blossom, inside the
house."
Margery's dimples and buxomness were perfect, and
her handsome white hands never looked prettier than
when waved about in the energy of the polemical dis-.
cussions she gloried in..
Elevir, fond of playing the part of diligent house-wife
with her needle and her shears, gar "auld claithes look
a'maist as weel as new." Elevir had good store of scissor-
cases, table-mats, bed-spreads quilted in grape leaves,
fancy holders, which she dispersed according to merit or,
liking among her acquaintances.
Gynot worked the flower-garden in summer, and tended
the plants sheltered in the -narrow porch fronting the
south, which she had caused to be sashed for them, in the
winter days, when there were no cheeses to be made or
yarn to-be spun. Great store of "weeds" had she there too
(her brothers were fond of so traducing her pets, though
they were quite willing to enjoy their sweets and revel
in their greenery), calla lilies, rose geraniums, old fash-
ioned fuchias and hyacinths, budded orange4rees, and

GRO WETII SEED AND BLO WETH MEAD.

Jerusalem cherries, which rewarded\ her care with their
brightness, and suggested pleasant musings.
Effie, the blooming "youngest," worked with all, dip-
ping into each dish of enjoyment, blithely singing, com-
ing and going at her own sweet will, petted and cuddled
by the household.
As time passed on, many eyes were turned towards
these comely women, dwelling so independently, living
as they listed upon their own broad acres ; hoping to win
one or other of therp, but to no purpose. The most at-
tractive widowers failed to win a "yes ;" the sprightliest
bachelors got for answer, "Nay, nay, I cannot, wonot
buckle to.". Yet everybody said, what admirable wives
they would make, and what a shame it was for such
maidens to remain in single blessedness, when doubleness
was so desirable. Even the epithet "old maids," which
came occasionally to their ears, did not affright them " to
jump," as Arabella said, "out of the frying-pan into the
fire," on the day when she told Gynet she had just re-
fused an old man, who was able to ride out pleasant days,
and wanted a mate for the same reason they sought out a
damsel for King David. "No, if I want to be'a nurse;
I'll go into a hospital and done with it."  So they ac-
cepted the stigma with smiling equanimity, and laughed
-and chatted and worked, and, it may be, gossipped a
little, cheerful and gay in spite of it.
Side by side lay the other farm. Also fronting
east, stood the roomy. brown house, half hidden bahii&amp;
tall trees, curtained by vines, embowered in roses, vhire
'dwelt a family of women, who were a curiosity and a
study to all their neighbors. They suffered no man about
their premises, performing the labor of their land with
their own hands: planting, gathering crops, threshing,

A5


QROWETH SEED AND BLO WE7 H MEAD.

4 GROTWETH SEED AND BLOWETH MEAD.

husking and the like, without any assistance from the
sterner sex, whom they entirely ignored and left out of
their calculations.
Five years ago they came suddenly, without warning,
and settled on the place, which, having been sold to pay
off a mortgage, was quietly bought, and they were in-
stalled in their new home, before half their neighbors
beoame aware that the property had changed hands.
They had made no alteration in their habits or the
fashion of their garments since that period; had spoken
no words to anybody, except the barest, meagrest ones of
trade. They attended no church, recognized no civilized
forms, no kinship with their kind; and yet they were
neither old nor ugly, and in spite of their strange gowns
and manish labors, they carried the marks of culture and
refinement.
I said five women; that is not precisely correct, be-
cause the youngest was scarcely more than a child in
years and manners, and her next and best loved sister
only twelve months and a half her senior.
The wide acre fronting the road was laid, out in odd-
shaped beds, and filled with flowers of all hues; choice,
rare, costly, stately gentry of Flora's kingdom, who were
however made to spread their beauties in the democratic
society of the fields and woods, which were adopted and
brought .home to this queer garden where rank was upset
and custom gave' no law.,
Though they were known far. and near as " the old
maids," they had a good family name, with which the
eldest signed contracts, when she bought the lands ad-
joining, adding acre to acre.
Olytie Dunwreath ruled the others with a firm power,
asking no right, making no mention of authority, but

which none ever dreamed of disputing or setting
aside.
Though in secret Orchis and little Candace might have
whispered to each other, what sort of life they could
choose to live, if they had the chance to choose, it was
a breath too faint to ruffle their fate, and they accepted
the dread necessity which pressed upon them, isolating
them from the 'rest of the world. The twins, coming
so mtich nearer the family desolation, seemed to have
laid down their former existence, never to take it again.
They worked on and on, in their every-day rut; and if
either felt a want in their narrow round, they made no
moan over the inevitable.
Everywhere busy, everywhere efficient, was Goody
Ruddock, as she was called in the family; "the Tom-big
one,".by outsiders, who feared and disliked her.
This great powerful Welsh woman had drifted towards
the Dunwreaths out of a sea of trouble ; of woe too wide
to see beyond. Her robust youth was spent op a Wen-
lock farm, and her whole soul was bound up in a younger
brother, to whom she stood for mother, nurse, and friend.
Royal comfort she got out of her diverse offices, till one
ugly day, when the lad was in his eighteenth year, and as
pleasant in her eyes as her native Laurels, there came
(pushed by his father, the Devil) a wandering vagrant to
the house to be hired. The, season was. late, and her
father accepted the fellow, glad of an extra hand in the
harvest, and the woman's life was blasted from that hour.
A vicious, depraved, skulking wretch,-a jail-bird who
knew the inside of half the prisons in his own land,-
a hulk that the sea wouldn't drown. (She had tossed him
from her, out of a tempest which kept all the othersail-
ors with their sinking ship and laid them at, rest on coral

.,;                    ,

47

46


48   GI2OWETH SEED AND BLOWETH MBAD.

paven beds.), His picture hung in the rogues' gallery,
and his life was an abomination in the sight of all men.
This fellow poisoned the soul of her boy, her only good,
filling his ears with tales of wild adventures, spun from
crimes ; the end came soon. He ran off one night, joined
a gang of thieves, robbed a bank-was tried and trans-
ported, chained, to his tempter, who made his life a horror
by his cruelty. Goody never wrought in Glendock one
more day after she lost her treasure. She followed-him to
London, to Sydney, which she reached the day after the
great bush-fire, which swept off so many men and killed so
muai cattle. The vagrant also had disappeared, but she
found a man, who told her, he had seen the two mates
together, and also that a rumor was about, of how the boy
had been dirked and thrown into the burning; and no
search could find her anything belonging to her darling,
except an old coat and a shoe well worn. His hut was
empty.
but off from all motive for life, she returned to Wen-
lock, to find her father dead and the homestead leased to
strangers. She drifted away through the country, care-
less of her fate-suffering, starving, till finally she got
aboard of an emigrant ship and was landed in New York.'
Thence she was wrecked at Mrs. Dunwreath's door, who
took her in outof infinite pity, healed her bruises, shel-
tered, clothed her, and gave her the twins to nurse. The.
whole strong lovingness of the lone creature brightened,
and kindled afresh, and her life centred. in the Dun-.
wreath household, outside of whom she had no inter-
ests, no sympathies.
When the trouble burst upon them, and Olytie took up
the new life, Goody Ruddoek stood manfully to the fore.
Thoroughly' used to farm-work, accustomed to allifut -

GROWTH SEED AND ,BLOWET! MEAD.        4.9
door labor, her powerful organization acknowledged no
fatigue, asked no respite. She shouldered the heaviest
burdens, and pushed right on through summer heat and
winter cold; she conquered the elements and worked her
will with earth's fruits.
When telling her story to her patroness, she explained
simply:
"I did not kill the devil because I could not get my
fingers to his throat, but when once my eyes light on him
I shall straightway tear him to pieces! "
Through all the following years of tender watching and
kindness for her charge, a murder would surely have
been a sequence of opportunity, if her brother'sfend hadc
come under her hand.
She bowed before Clytie with absolute submission,
She reverenced her because of her awful sufferings; she
pitied a heart torn and bleeding as her own had been;
and she watched for times and seasons to do her service.
She felt beside this in-wrought sympathy, a bond of
duty to the representative of the dead lady who committed
her children to her charge. With her last hand-kiss she
had sworn an oath, to hover them under her vast mother-
liness, as long as God let her breathe.
Despite her past, Goody could smile, could laugh,--
rather hoarsely, 'tis true,--and her voice was like a boom-
ing cannon at its sweetest ; and when she drove her team
afield the neighbors'could hear her great-volumed tones,
and they made faces and said: "lIlumph, them old maids!
the Tom big one is hooting her cattle."
She sometimes petted the young ones, even yet in the
new life, with a grim, rugged fondness, and was tireless
in executing their commands, no obstacle ever coming be-
tween their little wishes and her fulfilling them. The

,


0  GRO WETII SEED AND BLOWETII ME'AD.
highest birds-nest, the wildest squirrel was captured. Bhe
split the crows' tongues to make them talk, and she brought
home the young wild-cat in her arms, in spite of his claws,
for a birth-day gift to the "baby" Candace, Outsiders
called her " surly, savage, horrible;" naught cared she-
for their good or ill word, and she was seldom troubled
with trespassers. Little boys ran like the wind at sight
of her; little girls -called her a witch ; and grown-up
folks were quite willing to let "the Tom big one " alone.
She often carried "the young ones" on her back for long
trmps at first, and after they outgrew that pastime, ghe
hauled them in a rude sledge of her own construction,
which she picked up bodily, when it became necessary to
ord brooks or overstep obstructions. She occasionally
baked    ie" and made candies; in fact most of the pleas-
ures eof their narrow lives emanated from faithful Goody,
andpit need not be told how dearly they loved her.
It is not to be supposed, that girls of such blood and
culture could exist even in their strange shut-in sphere,..
without any attempt to adorn their surroundings. Gri-
selda had her moss-baskets, ferns, trailing vines, autumn-
leaves, aid the like. Vashti her pressed flowers, shells, and
stuffed birds. She spelled out the taxidermist's craft from
an old book, and Goody fetched her the drugs and the
-    victims, and she also made'the case to hold them, of win-
ter evenings. Owls stared, squirrels grinned, and hum-
ming-birds perched on mossy twigs, the trophies of her zeal
and skill, and but that she also experienced the earthly
curse, " the moth and rust " which corrupt, she might
have. filled the house from garret to cellar, so ardent was
she in her labors.
Each twin vied with the other in their production of
bed-quilts and cushions; they drew patterns and planned

GROWETH SEED A NDBLO WETII EAD.

51

novelties in every combination of circles and squares; and
braided. mats and knotted fringes; but with all, and the
best of all, their lives were unutterably wearisome, niar-
row, thin, flat, dhll, stale; and the high board fence which
enclosed their barns and sheds, effectually protecting
them  from  impertinent intrusion (the key carefully
guarded by Goody), felt to them often like prisQn walls.
Among her father's possessions Clytie cherished a
beautiful shot-gun, which practice in her last five years
had taught her to use a rmerveille-and she spent whole
days in the woods, never returning without a pouch full
of game. The slyest weasel, the wickedest coon, the niin
blest hares, the shyest birds, which haunt the depths of
the stillest forests, were her trophies; yet if you watched
her through her solitary tramps, you would fail to find in
her any exaltation, any glow of triumph, any joy in suc-
cess; only exact occupation, steady pursuit, determined
persistence.
None ever dared to commend her skill, though Vashti
sometimes preserved her birds, and Goody cooked them;
no word was spoken-the old creature received them si-
lently, in strange, grim sympathy looking in her mis-
tress' stony face as she felt the shot-marks and dabbled
her fingers in the innocents' blood; or yet again seek-
ing the prey n a corner, where the huntress had thrown
it. Good and savory meals they made from the wood
spoils; but, as none talked at table, neither the cook nor
the viands got any praise.


A BOY AT BALQ1THII7ER.

CHAPTER VI.

A BOY AT BALQUITHER.
HE Springof which we are telling you, brought
anew element of youth, activity, bustle, and
briskness into the Balquither household, which
was full of vigor, energy, and capability before.
A boy had come to live among them; a boy with curls
and roundabouts, a couple of voices, and untold pranks;
a shouting, whistling, singing boy, who banged doors, up-
set chairs, broke crockery, and cut. up generally; one of
the torments, of whom Oliver Wendell Holmes says:
"They ought to be kept in a barrel and fed through the
bung hole, till they are twenty-one years old."
Blush Beach by name, unblushing mischief by nature,
good, hdnest, brave, but of the sort who are a daily
trial to neat housewives and thrifty mothers.. le was no
kin to the McWhirters, but the only son of an old friend,
who, coming in the autumn to pay them a visit, had sick-
ened and died in their house, and begged them with his
latest breath to shelter the youth and care for him till he
was old enough to fight 'the world for himself; entrust-
imug them also with the United States bonds which were
pis son's fortune.
you may imagine what a flurry and a flutter entered

the household along with this bright lad ; over-setting all
arrangements, frolicking with the honored-customs, and
disporting himself joyously in the motherhood of the
women, which, having found no natural outlet, now fas-
tened upon him, as pet, play-fellow, beau, comfort, and
perpetual care; each mothering him in her own particu-
lar vein ; so he got all he could manage of polemics;
orthodoxy, farm-lore, teaching, snubbing, and catechism.
Blush, who had knocked about the world, so far through
his short life living in hotels, travelling from one country
to another, settled joyfully into the nest feathered for
him, and reciprocated the liking he got with fervent out-
gushes from his warm, boyish heart.
Blush was exceedingly interested in their accounts of
the "old maids," and he passed a good many spare mo-
ments peering under the trees, between fence-rails, and
through bushes. He even mounted the high, broad-wall, at
the risk of his limbs, and at price of dismal tears in his
garments, and once went so far as to perch on the very
summit of the tall hay-rick, hoping to espy their doings;
but he was no further rewarded for his toil, than to get
sight of a couple of slender women in straight gowns and
shaker bonnets, feeding and ilking their cows, and
a third, the centre of a great brood of poultry, who
cackled and crowed and quacked all around her. On
one occasion he watched a race between two young girls
and a puppy--which tickled him much, especially as the
dog got the best of it, and tumbled the lassies head-over-
.heels among the littered straw. But he was near drop-
ping from his roost, at the unexpected sound of Goody
Ruddock's baritone, which suddenly smote his ear like
the bray of a trumpet; and he crouched small; till she
and her oxen had gotten well out of sight. Not that Bktsl  :

53,


A .BOY AT BALQUITER.

was afraid: of course not; 'but there was something so
queer in the.inanishness of Goody's voice, actions, occu-
pations, so odd. in her dress, that even if he had been on
the 'ground, he, would not have stopped to parley; but
being in mischief, and wIhere he had no right, he lay
perdue till the coast was clear.
It got to be quite an every-day question, when supper
came and the boy showed his ruddy face at table: "Well
Blush! laddie, and did you see the little old maid yet,
where ye might say good-day lass, and Heaven bless ye?"
and each time Blush replied, "No, not yet Auntie; but
never fear, I'll soon come to speech of her;" and then
would follow an account of his afternoon, eagerly listened
to and enjoyed by the five, who brushed him up, patted?
him down, and made of him in all ways.
Blush had. a good deal to say about Cuba, Florida, Cal-
ifornia, Para, and other places where lie had sojourned
with his father, while the invalid was fighting the death
which had conquered at last; and he said it so well,.that
his mothers took great pleasure in his travels, and after a
while he used to add:r
"I'll tell that to the little old maid, when I come to get
acquainted with her."

CHAPTER VII.
CANDACE IN TROUBLE.

VANDACE, come here! who broke my lily?"
The speaker was a tall, slender woman, about
twenty-five, with a sverely beautiful countenance,
whose lines were rarely, almost never disturbed by a ripple
of feeling. Her eyes, as black as night, fringed ' and
browed with shadowy perfection, looked 'out only to find
the duties and needs of her life, and her admirably chis-
elled lips got no leave to part in enjoyment of either, when
well achieved. Her abundant hair, flossy and flaxen, was
cropped straight in her neck and simply tucked behind
ears which persisted, in spite of all their owner's indiffer-
ence, in being rosy-tipped and beautiful. Her gown was
of the commonest blue check, woven in her own loom, and
of the scantiest, plainest pastern. Her shoes, clumsy and
stout, could not hide the prettiness of her small feet,
and though her hands were browned and hardened by
constant labor, they kept their symmetry of shape, and
her wrists their round perfection. In the strong leaitheriI
belt which clasped her waist, she wore a little Derriuger,
the gift of her father, who had prided himself upon her
graceful skill in its use. ArTy trespassing dog or cat, any
rooting hog, ainy wandering turkey, any prowling enei

Y       54

f


56

CANDAdE IN TROUBLE.

of her broods, her pig-stys, who came within its range,
fell dead. She would sit hours motionless, waiting for
her prey, and she rarely waited in vain. Ohly one look
to prove to herself the destruction sure, and her interest
ended. No remonstrances, no threats from her incensed
ieigh1bors availed. If she replied at all: she gave but
oie answer: "Justice,-they trespassed and were pun-
ished.".
Men rarely sought a look from those black, cold eyes, or
got near enough for speech ; women did sometimes, but
curiosity generally had a surfeit of them in one interview,
and they were glad to leave her alone.
Candace unwillingly obeyed the call of the sister who
waited for her, holding in one hand the faded blossom
and in the other a hoe, with which she had been working
her carnations,--a call which had all the imperative
necessity of fate.
Having known no other mother than Clytiminestra,
she would have yielded her obedience, even if she had
been reared in a less exceptional way; but shut in by
their own fences, never speaking to or being addressed by
anybody but her family for so many years of her life, she
gave-not only the obedience which all about rendered to
their ruler, but obedience mingled with the awe which
had settled upon her at that dreadful time, when this same
elder sister had been suddenly hardened from a cheery,
helpful, sympathetic, loving girl, into a stony death-in-
life, which no longer felt grief, nor carried sorrows, and
to whom joy was unknown.
Though tall enough for her fifteen years, Candace was
dressed like a child, in a long, narrow cotton gown, with
short sleeves, and a pinafore apron, and her feet and legs
were bare. The shaker-bonnet which oughtto have

CANDACE IN TROUBLE.
sh ded her face, was tied byits strings, and hung down
he back, and her finger-nails were filled with the mould
frm the flower-roots she had been planting. Her head
was covered with a mat of chestnut curls, and her nose
turned up in the atchest manner: even the bridge of
freckles across it looed cunning, and when not blanched
with fear, her cheeks were beautiful with healthy roses;
and troubled and frightened as were her eyes just now,
they were capable of waggishness and drollery, which in-
cited mirth in everybody except Clytie. Intended by Na-
ture for one of those sunshine children whom everybody
hugs and kisses; she shed many tears, was accustomed to
blows and punishment.
She came close to her sister, her cheeks flickering, her
eyes dropped upon the ground, and her heart beat fast
and hard enough to disturb the great artery in hey neck,
which throbbed visibly; her small hand grasped a great
trowel--clutched it, in fact.
"How did you do this piece of mischief?"
Clytie's voice was sweet, and yet it jarred on the lis en-
er's ear like a harp out of tune, it was so utterly astray
from concord with any human interest. It rang in metal-
lie clearness, but lacking all thrill of feeling. It re-
minded you of the dropping of icicles upon snow-crust,
hard and cold.
"You, will do well to answer my question quickly."
"Ajax tumbled on it while I played with him."
"Go get me the whip," repgi d the voice, so unchang-
ing inIkne and quality, so inflexible of purpose.
"It was my fault, Clytie ; do not beat Ajax."
" I shall also beat you, presently. Call the dog."
Candace stole, a look at the beautiful face where she
had forgotten the glimmer of pity or mercy; there was

C                        -~


c1A DAC IN TROUBLE.

59    2

CA NDACE TIN TROUBLE.

none there now ; the black, intense eyes looked straight
at her. and saw no kinship; the lips which formed the
cruel words were humid and rosy in still repose the in-
stant they were uttered. There was no anger, no inipa-
tience, no revenge ; simple impassibility.
The child obeyed, as a machine obeys the controller of,
its wheels and pulleys, and presently returned, dragging
by the collar a great shaggy Newfoundland puppy, who
would have fled away as soon as he caught sight of Fate,
who awaited him, had not Candace spoken softly to him ;
but he cane unwillingly, scanning out of his red-veined
eyes the being who was always a terror to him, even when.
she held in her hand no broken blossom, which a piteous
look acknowledged as his crime.
Candace offered passively the whip which she had'
fetched out of sight of her favorite, with an obedience
which saw no use in resistance.
"Ajax," said Clytie, holding up the drooping flower,
"you have "broken my lily; now you must suffer for your
act.
The poor brute felt the power and mercilessness of the
face and voice, and he lay down at the feet of his judge
with up-stretched paws, and howled out his fear and sub-
mission. He Might have stood up in his strength--the
simple wretch who did not know that he 'had power
enough to tear the frail woman limb from limb, and tram-
ple out her life.  It is a merciful Providence which
makes the hugest and strongest among men and other
animals to be the most forbearing and kind, and often
leaves them as it did poor Ajax, ignorant of their might.
The blows fell thick and fast, and his cries were piteous
to hear; so piteous that Candace, standing apart waiting
her'turn, could not choose but weep, and the big tears

were Still dropping silently, when Clytie took a step
toward her, and said
' Comne here, Candace."
A shudder of sympathy for her favorite and dread for
herself, passed over her, and the life current deserted her
cheeks and lips which were white, but her eyes asked no
pity, seeking the ground, and her teeth compressed her
nether lip with a nervous resolution to endure and make
no sign.
"Put away the whip," said Clytie when its office was
done, "and remember when again you desire to destroy
my flowers, that the guilty must pay the penalty of jus-
tice ; and think yourself fortunate if no law makes you
suffer, being innocent."
Candace did not immediately return to her, occupation
after her sister had left her, but sat down onothe ground
in a feuce corner, and Ajax, her companion in misery,'
crept close to her with a whine, and she leaned over and
buried her hot face in his shaggy coat, holding his head
tightly clasped in her two arms.
Blush Beach had been a wondering observer of this
scene from his peeping-place Ibetween the boards. Blush
could not understand at all the why of her non-resistance,
being rather a contemner of authority himself, the
natural: effect of his unrestrained and independent life
which had 1eld him accountable to nobody; and he had
to clench lhis teeth and his fists very hard, in the effort to
keep to the precept instilled into him by his father, and so
punctuated by his experience as to stand to him for a
code of religion and morals:.
"Always mind your own business, Blush, my boy, and,
leave other people to mind theirs."
This compendium of education lasted him through the

_  t
r j             58-


c~z.AiWAUE 12VTIarBLE
scene and up to Clytie's departure whom he watched with
glowering eyes disappear behind the great barn, but it
failed to stead him any further in sight of the young girl
sobbing out her wretchedness upon the neck of her faith-
ful friend, who forgot his own misery in. sorrow for hers,
and licked the hands which clasped him, from time to
time,-mi token of sympathy.
"What do you let her beat you for?" whispered he at
last, when you are big and strong enough to pay her
back?"benghtpahr
Candace intently listened, lifting her head from its rest;
and the dog also pricked up his ears, and snuffed the
air. She could scarcely believe they were real spoken
words, they were so close an echo of the inner thought
she had been vainly trying to silence and quench in her
tears.
"Here I am, little old maid. Turn about and look at
me, right here " (drumming on the boards to fix her gaze
upon the especial knot-hole he was patronizing). "Blush
Beach is my name. I live at Baiquither. I am sorry
you are ill-treated."
Candace sprang to her feet, and bringing her face close
to the fence, she surveyed the speaker an instant. A maid
cQild do no less, even if she had been forbidden to parley
with strangers, and had so far"kept her fealty; for the
same reason, it may be, which  keeps the est of usro
Seeg a boy     ace, brig i and rosy, -aboy's form in
'nice gray clothes, not too fresh, a rather rusty cap nestled.
a-top of a crop of dark-red curls, and a general look of
sympathy and interest all over him, she did not imme-
diately withdraw her gaze ; and before any more words
wore spoken, and while the two remained silently study-

CANDACE -I TTROtIR.L.

- ing each other, they progressed so rapidly in acquaintance,
that a mutual good understanding was commenced before
another sentence was uttered.
"Why do you let her ?" repeated Blush presently.
"Because she is Clytie," replied Candace in a low
whisper,--though she was being disobedient, she made
the fault as faint as posible,-" and you must go away;
it is not right for me t6,talk with you."
"Why not, pray?"
" Because Clytie forbids us to speak to any one."
"'I am not any one. I am Blush Beach, a very particu-
lar one. I'm on my side of the fence. I mean to come
over your side before long. I've been looking out for a
chance to talk with you days and days."
"With me ! What forl When did you look ?"
The astonishment at the discovery was mixed with
pleasure in the strong determination he showed to persist
in his course, which nearly took her breath away.
"I heard about. you.; they told me over there -where I
live; and I climbed to the top of your hay-rick, on the
fence, and I went in the fields and everywhere."
"What did you wantI "
"To see you, talk with you, get. acquainted with you.
We're neighbors ; we ought to be frien ds."
"Friends ! how strange that sounds !- I can't haye
friends. Clytie would set Toss at you if she fouiAn'io
and I don't know how she would beat me. I .don't care
about that, though," she added quickly. "I can bear all
she can lay on."
"No you can't; you shan't ! I'll make a fuss! I'm not
afraid of Toss nor any other dog: nor of Clytie, either.
Come now, climb up and get over where I am, and g
with me. I'm going to see Sister Folly, and we'll *rd


::-2G1ArNDAU.E TINTR6 UBLE.
some winter-greens, and have u irice time. I'll tell you
Jack and the three roads. I know lots of stories."
"O no ! I cannot. ' I dare not. I never go anywhere."
"Well, it is time you did. Everybody says it is a shame
the way they keep you shut up here: All my aunts, Ara-
beila, Margery, Elevir, Gynet, and Effie say so. They say
you ought to go to school and to church and to paring-
bees. We're going to have a paring-bee. I want you to
come."
"I don't know what you mean," said Candace, And then
Blush launched out into the charms of bees and other
frolics, reiterating his declaration that she must join in
them.
" I wish I could; but I can't," said Candace with a
sigh.
" Why notYou can climb a fence, I know, and you've
a tongue to speak your mind."
"No, I haven't got any mind, and if I had 'twouldn't
make a mite of difference; nobody could get my way for
inc. Goody Ruddock would say, 'Tut, tut, poor child,'
Orchis would feel sorry and cry.; butthey couldn't help
me. Clytie does what she likes to everybody."
"Well, you are a foolish girl to let her. She is not your
another. Why should you fear her so ? "
"She is our sister. But we are not like other folks.'
Clytie shuns all. strangers. She says we must not have
anything to do with them ; we must hate them."
' Well, that is an odd kind of'doctrine! 'Tis not what
the aunies tell me. They say I must try to love all human'
reatures."
"Do they? Well I think that much the pleasantest way
to do. I'm sure I cannot be cross to folks that never Tdid
me any harm."

CANDACE IN TROUBLE.
"That's the talk ! Now just begin by liking me, and
you see if we don't manage to have some tip-top times
together.",
"I do like you. I don't have to try; it comes itself."
"Qf course it does. That shows it is all right. Now you
jump like a squirrel and I'll catch you, and when you're
safe oyer, we'll go and see Sister Polly."
"Oh no," said Candace, who. though she was ready
enough to chat with an agreeable youth, was still a long
way from making up a plan to run off with him. "I
can't do-that, I'm afraid. Oh, dear ! there's Olytie; she's
calling to Goody."
The sound of her sister's voice brought the poor child
to her senses, and made her feel very guilty indeed; and
.she hastened quickly away, making no reply to the whis-
pered "Good-by," and the promise to come again, which
her new friend sent after her.
The next day when Blusr returned whistling from
school with his satchel over his shoulder, he jumped the
enclosure and put his eyes to the fence of separation, and
somehow Candace happened to be within ear-shot, and so
each afternoon he managed to stop at the trysting-place,
and being there, he told boy frolics and pranks and
showed the lessons he studied, and (made fun of the
teacher, and boasted his battles-his victories in " cut
jacket " and "yards-off," and glorified himself man
fashion among themes in which she, a girt, could have no
place, and worked his life in among her thoughts and
fancies with ingenuity and dispatch. Before the end of
a week he made it a point to meet her in the far pasture
when she drove home the cows, and walk up the lane in
her company ; and he was not to blame for talking about
his travels and adventures to so wrapt and eager a lis-.


CAKDACE IN TROUBLE.

CANDACE IN TROUBLE.

tener, who always wanted to know more, and revelledin
the new-found pleasure. A companion ! outside her kin,
would have been a wonder; but a boy friend ! and such
a bo4T! She built on Blush her ideal of the other sex, and
though her body stopped in the garden, and her hands
were busy pulling wicked weeds, she also walked abroad
in the wide world, the friend of hundreds and hundreds
of excellent creatures, brave, merry and frolicsome, and
dreamed herself through every phase of existence he had
opened to her imagination, till she forgot her task, her
narrow boundaries, in the Arcadia she created.
But though these were wonderful days to Candace, it
must not be supposed they were unalloyed. The child
could not meet her sister's eyes. She kept more than
ever aloof and felt herself a guilty creature ; and she
replied to Blush's frequent protestations, that she was
only using the good liberty which belonged to her, and
could not lawfully be taken from her, in a proper and
pleasant way: "But you know, Blush, we are not like
other folks." Still the world was a wider world, and the
longings to have some of his knowledge and realize
some of his experiences, could never be set at rest again;
and the prisoner feeling was so strong upon her that
she made haste to set free the pet wildcat, which only
stopped for a couple of snarling sniffs at the air beyond
the length of his chain and made a bee-line for the
woods, without so much as a look behind him. Can-
dace watched his long leaps and the swish of his hand-
some tail, and sighed. If she could but find some day
a way 'to cut loose from her bondage, and use her facul-
ties as he did his legs.
She said something like this to her sister Orchis, with
whom she shared all her life ; and she begged her to

65

come and have an interest in her new friend.    But
though Orchis mused in secret over what she heard, and
lent open ears to Blush's tales from Candace's lips, she
steadily refused to take a step toward him.
"No, Candace, pet," said she ; " I chafeand fret under
our life; I feel it drearier and harder than ever, since
you have got your friend; but I am glad he is yours. I
cannot halve such a possession. If he was rmine, I should
want him all to myself. I am afraid I should not be as
generous as you. I should be selfish."


A VISIT TO SISTER POLLY.

CHAPTER VIII.

A VISIT TO SISTER POLLY.
IIE temptation got too strong at last. Candace
ceased to resist, and one morning when Blush
Beach met her in the lane with a basket of par-
cels he was commissioned by the Balquither ladies to
carry to Sister Polly, and begged and entreated hei to,
come along, she turned about, and though she looked
behind her a great many times, she finally followed, and
then stepped by his fide.
All her life she remembered that walk, the delicious
sense of largeness, of expansive liberty, after she really
passed the farm boundaries, mingled with trembling
dread every time she thought of Clytie, and the probable
consequences of her stolen pleasure.
Her sister had gone to the woods at daybreak with her
gun, and her habits when she took such a 'tramp gener-
ally kept her afoot till nightfall. Goody Ruddock
carried a load of grain to Cherry Brook to exchange for
needful stores, and Blush assured Candace again and
again, that they two would be safe back befcre either
was returned. But she felt so degraded by her -dis-.
obedience, that she could not help talking about it to her
friend, who stoutly combatted her impressions,

"You are not doing wrong," insisted he, " because sie
has got no business to make such a law. Look a-here! -it
says in my constitution book, that all people have the
right 'to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' You
are a people, so you have the right. If she was Sour
mother she couldn't take it away from you; and as she
isn't your mother, only your sister, she has no authority
to say what you shall do anyhow."
3 Candace listened. awe-struck to this high-handed
heresy, and after gathering all the help she was able from
his positive face and manner, she replied slowly:
"-Perhaps it is so. I could not make it come true all
at once if it was. You know we are not like other folks."
"You have said that half a dozen times before. Now
what makes you think 'so-what is the reason you feel
different?"
"There ! I knew you would sooner or later ask me that
question. Orchis said you would. You mustn't do it
again ! Unless you will promise not to,.I shall turn
right back and never speak to you any; more. It is
enough to see how we live, to feel that there is something
behind it. I thought you said you always minded your
own business, and let 'other people mnind theirs."
"So I do. Enough said, Candace," answered Blush.
" You are a brave little trump. Don't be vexed with my
chin-music. I shouldn't be a mite afraid to tell youa
secret. You've got sense enough to hold it fast. I like
you ever so much better, because you can't be sifted as
my Aunt Elevir does the meal through her big collander."
"I am glad--I was afraid you might be angry."
"Angry! not I. I'm too smart to get angry with you.
What would become of all my good times? But there's
one thing certain sure. You must let mc come and. call

67


A VISIT TO SISTEr. POLLY

A VISIT TO FSTE POLL6Y.9

on  lytie. I'll get in through some crack in the fence,
or I'll bolt over it, and I will make her talk. My Aunt
Efie says it can't be done. I know better. I'd like to
see the woman I can't make talk; wouldn't youth I'll
just march right up in front of her, and. pull off my
skimmer, and I'll ask her to let you come toour paring-
be-very polite and pleasant. I will, sure -as winking"
The idea of being polite and affable with Clytie was
so monstrous, that though Candace laughed a little at his
bows and   ahems " and "if you please ma'ams," she
nearly shuddered also, and her disturbed face tickled
Blush so much, that he tore off his rusty cap and threw it
up and dashed about and caught it .on his red head half
a dozen times, before he went any further.
When they reached the long wood, Blush stopped and
hunted a straight stick of alder, considerably longer than
himself, and having tested its strength by using it as a
leaping pole and fencing lance, much to Candace's ad~
miration, he invited the pretty maid to sit beside him on
a mossy log, while he did a little ornamentation with the
ever ready jack-knife, without which no lad feels himself
quite a well-appointed and perfect boy.
Now I am going to carve our names and the day of
the month, and I think I'll put on something else to re-
member our first walk by. This is a white dayin my
calendar, as the fox said to the snow storm, and I don't
expect ever to forget it, and I think I'd better make our
ages too. I'm sixteen myself, last 'tater harvest. How old
are you,"
"I'm fifteen. Orchis is sixteen and a half."
"Fifteen! a very pretty age for a girl. I was kinder
afraid you was older than me. You are just about as

"Why were you afraid? What odds would it make?$ "
"None in particular; only a notion of mine;" and
Blush smiled to himself as he remembered a dictum of
his father's:
"Blush, now mind what I tell you: don't you ever
marry a woman that is fifteen minutes older than you
are. If you do, you'll get henpecked, and have your nose
held to the grind-stone."
"How came your folks to call you Candace . he asked
after a little more whittling.
"For the same reason that yours called you Blush, I
dare say,--because they had to give me a name."
"That's sense; and~ yours isn't queerer than mine,
either, though Aunt Efie says mine just fits me, and she
always feels like saying 'come and be kissed,' every time
she sees me. You don't feel that way, do you,?" he added
with a saucy wink.
"Not a bit," she replied, laughing. "Your face does
look nice and clean, though, as if somebody had jst
scrubbed it with soap, and your cheeks are red. I like
your looks."
"So do I yours, Candace, Queen of Ethiopia. Did
you know you had(got a queen's name, you little Ameri-
can old maid?"
"No, I never heard of such a place. Tell me about
her."
"There were a great many hers. They called all their
queens Candace, and there was a lot of them. One of
them was blind of an eye and a great warrior, another
wrote sacred books ; and they were posted on women's
rights in that old country, I can tell you.. Their kings
never had any individual names, but were just lumped
as sons of the sun,' and they never seemed to come to

08

19'


0;A VISIT TO SLSTER POLL .
the fore much anyhow. The queens attended to things
and were all called Candace."
" How nice ! I wish I had been one of those Candaces."
"I guess not.  The Ethiopians are as black as the
ace of spades. You couldn't have had your pretty brown
eyes, nor your pink cheeks, nor your sort-o'-reddish curls,
nor the cunning little freckles across your cundu g little
nose."
Caudace gave the nose a dab upward as she laughed
gleefully. "I had no idea boys were so amusing," said
she. " I wish I knew ever so many.1"
"'There! I expected that. I knew it was bound to
come, but I didn't suppose it would burst out to-day.
Do be contented with me for the present, Candace, can't.
you??
"I shall have to be. I've no choice."
"flow teazing. Where did you learn to be such a pro-
voking hector ? "
"I did not know that I was. I didn't mean to plague
you, Blush."
"Well, you do when you say such things. You add a
nail to my coffin every time, so be careful.  Now I
must cut a dot, period, full stop, after the fifteen. The
years won't stop though, and \vheri we are old fops I'll,
ask you to show me this stick, and then we'll talk over
our good times when we were in our teens."
" Old folks," repeated Candace, looking at her com-
panion's fresh face; "how queer: you, bald-headed like
the pedler I peeped at through the gate yesterday. His
head looked like an egg. Me, gray and wrinkled like
Goody Ruddock! i couldn't bear to think of you and
me that way; it does not seem possible." -
" Well, don't mind trying just now; it's a long way off.

A VISiT TO SISTER POLLY 7P1

I'..

I

,r

You've got to get married first, and have lots of children,
like the one-eyed queen,,you know."
"No, I shan't ever be married." Candace shook her
head and looked quite melancholy over the single-blessed
prospect.
"Why not, pray?"
"Because I'm one of 'the old maids.' Don't you call
me it again though, unless you want to make me nad as
fire. Nobody is ever going to have any of us. Orchis
says so-we're not like other folks."
"Pooh ! just you give them the chance. Open the gate,
call off the dogs, and you'll have a string of fellows as
long as from here to Cherry Brook in less than a week."
"Fellows! gentlemen, you mean. I don't believe that.';
"Maybe you don't know you are a handsome girl.
Come here and look at your face then, 'Miss Agnes.'
That's what my father used to call all simple girls, who
had never been in love."
He pulled her to the little pond before them, and gazed
with her intb its depths at their two faces.
"Aren't you?" asked he, after a moment's silence.
"No," she replied, with a toss of her head ; " I'm not
pretty. My chin is too sharp. Vashti says she could
pick her teeth with it. I don't care. Orchis is pretty."
" So are you, Candace, and before you find out yourinar-
ket value, I guess I'd better pop. So 'here goes: Will
you marry ,me."
"I don't know as I'will. I may as well wait for' the
string you promise- me, and find out how you compare,"
replied Candace, saucly?" J've got-to have a husband,
I want a first-rate iie"
"That's the sort I mean to be, so remember, I am A
number one on your list. Look! the carving is all done.

i ' a :r
.i   .r.


J2A VISIT TO SISTER POLLY.
Our names, ' Candace Dunwreath, Blush Beach,' our
ages, and the date. Now I think sweet-heart would look
nice under our names; don't you? right here!"
"What is a sweet-heart?"
"Why, lover, beau, spark; the chap that takes you to
all the frolics, fetches you candy and flowers, and marries
you after-a while !"
"yYou need not say that ; I won't have you say it !" cried
Candace, springing to her feet. "They don't marry--I
know all about that. They break her heart! they-"
"They what ? " asked Blush, in wide-eyed astonish-
ment, as she fell back on the log and shut her lips tight.
"Nothing. Let's go on ; I'm tired of resting."
"As true as winkin', you came near letting me mind
your business, Candace, didn't you ? Some day you will
come to me and say, 'Blush, I want to tell you something!I'
I shall. be a tall fellow in. swallow-tails, maybe, before
that, but it will come. We will be friends as long as we
live; won't, we Candace?"
" I hope so," replied the girl with a half shudder;  I
hope so. Oh! how I shiver; I feel chilly !"
"When your flesh creeps that way, it is a sign some-
body is walking over your grave, so Aunt Gynet/says;
but I don't take stock in all their notions."
" My grave ! where ?" cried Candace, springing to her
feet.
"I don't know where; but of course you will have to
be buried somewhere. Not for a good while yet, I hope.
Not till I've carved the sweetheart on this stick."
" I want to be happy before I die," answered she
wistfully. "I want to be free, like you."
" Free with me, you mean. Thank you; that's hunky-
dory."

A VISIT TO SISTER POLLY.
aI want Orchis to be happy too."
"We must find some fellow who will coax her out of
the 'old maid' list, and she'll be happy enough. The way
to be happy is to get married."
"That is news to me," said Candace. "I don't hear
such talk in my house. 'I shouldn't wonder if it was true.
though."
" It is true ; you and I will prove it some day."
They took each an end of the staff he had fashioned,
and went on their way; but they had set a mark in their
lives, to which they often turned back during its onward
march. To-day it was a bright dash of boy and girl gay-
ety. What it should be in the future depended on so many
contingencies, that it was as well, perhaps, that they could
not see ahead. Sufficient to the day was the pleasure
thereof. They found a real mole-hill. Blush told Can-
dace how it was called the "nmouldiwarp " in England,
long before Alfred the Great sat upon the throne of
Wessex, and how his father had helped him dig out one,
once, when they were staying in the North; and laying
down the ornamented staff, he-set to work to show her the
wonderful chambers, and courts, and streets, hoping to
find an inhabitant, that lie might prove to her that the
active hunter is not blind, only cat-like about the eyes, in
its power of seeing in the dark. Unfortunately the mole
was out ; but lie did gather some "sky-stained eggs " of
the scolding wren, which he showed her how to blow free
from their contents. He also promised her a young
crow, which she could tame and teachto talk. In short,
he was so interesting and amusing, that the way seemed
marvellously short to the home of the old maid they were
going to visit, and she was almost sorry when they arrived.

-It,


GRANNY MtSO.Ij AT fOME.

CHAPTER IX.

CRANN1~Y MI1NSOT AT IO1 fl.

HE Pember family-Jonathan, David, and Polly
-lived on a sort of peninsula which in wet times,.
became an island, and when Cherry Brook swelled
with heavy rains they were cut off from the rest of the
world for weeks together, with whom they mingled little
enough in the sunniest of times.
The farm had never been owned by any but Pembers
since Indian days, and the strong family peculiarities had
been handed down froi generation to generation without
softening ; and their oddities made them objects of curi-
osity to the young folks of the-country round, who were
fond of paying them visits, as pilgrims visit ruins or the
Shakers, or Philansterys, or any other cluster of mortals
who order their lives to their own liking, without refer-
erce-to, the herd called society.
Such guests always received hospitality without grudg-
ing, as long as all inclinations to mirth could be kept out
of sight ; but if an unlucky giggler broke out, or was
caught "making fun," welcome was clouded, and being
thenceforward considered outsiders, they were without
ceremony-invited to take leave,-and appear no more.
~  bridge had never joined them to the main land, ad At4

75

s

low water Cherry Brook was easily forded; and the few
pedestrians who reached the farm made their entrance by
hopping from one to another of the great mossy stones
which were bedded too deep to.be moved by the wildest
rushing freshet.
" Now don't laugh, Candace, when you see them," ad-
vised Blush, as, having leaped ashore, he and she stopped
to lave their feet in the musically rippling water which
hurried past them. I never knew for certain, but I
always supposed that Blush left off his shoes and stock
ings on this tramp, a good deal out of compliment to
Candace, who wore neither ; at any rate, he relished com
paring the masculine and feminine feet which, thrust
forward side by siie, enjoyed the cool bath they got
among the water-arrows and rushes.
"Why should I laugh?"
Youcan see fun easy ; anybody .could know that by
the cock of your nose ; and they are real queer. They
don't do things as other folks do-but they are always
glad to see me. Sister Polly says I am a desput nice lit
tie shaver, and Jonathan and David get me to tell where
I have been, till I feel quite proud to have seen so
much."
While they were talking, an old one-horse wagon came
rattling down the stony road into the ford, and as the
clumsy hoofs of the shaggy animal, called by courtesy
"the colt;" splashed near enough to send some scattering
drops of the brook-water over Candace, she moved hastily
aside, and Blush called out to a tall, lanky man who was
driving him:
"How de do,, Jonathan! Don't spatter so ! We are
coming to visit you; and I've got a lot of things from idy
aunties for Sister Polly."

'

*

, .


'76         GRANNY MUNSON AT HOME.
Mr. Pember hauled in his beast vith his rope lines, and
pulling off his hat, passed an'inviting hand over his scat-
tering white hairs, coaxing 'them to the fore. "Yes, yes,
Blush," said he; "that's right ! always tickled to see you;
and who is the little lass that's washing her feet amongst
the pollywogs 2 "
"Candace Dun wreath, Jonathan. I asked her to come
along and see Sister Polly. I expect they'll be great
friends."
Mr. Pember fixed his lips as if he wanted to whistle ;
but he thought better of it, and having unpuckered them
again, he said:
Oho! one of the old maids ! how desput curous ! I've
always heerd as how them critters didn't go nowheres, no
more than us Pembers do. Everybody to their notion!
What makes you look so cross, little girl? You was as
smilin' as a basket of chips afore I come."
"I hate being called old maids !. I hate folks that do it!
We are not old! I am but fifteen, and Clytie is only
twenty-five."
"Oh well, don't speak up so peart. I didn't tack the
name onto you, and I s'posed you was pretty much used to
it by this time. Come, hop up ! We'll give you the best
we've got; and Blush, he shall finish his yarn about the
monkey-hunt."
" No I won't ! 'not a step !" said Candace. " I wis I
hadn't come. I shall go right home. 9lytie said true; I
know it now ! I'll-go back and stay as long as' I live.  I
won't stop with folks who call ns nasty names ! ". -
"Now you've made her mad, Jonathan,! Tell her you
don't mind being called 'long timber."'
"Long timber," repeated Candace, looking up and
down the occupant of the wagon, whose knees were nearly

GRANNY MUNSON AT HOME.

'77 1

on a level with his ears, "is that because you are so
tall?"
"Yes, and his name is Pember, you see ; " put in
Blush, eager to make the most of the opportunity to turn
her thoughts.  "Pember-timber, that's the way they
make names. There's a couple of boys in our school
named Meter, and we call them long Metre and com-
mon Metre; and there's a little girl with just such
curls as yours, and everybody, that likes her calls her
Topsy."
"That likes her!" said Candice, doubtfully.
"Yes, of course. We don't take such liberties with
unpleasant people ; we give them a wide berth, and the
longest kind of handles to their names."
Candace looked at Mr. Pember because he made such
la queer noise, a kind of wheeze and a cough mixed, and
his face was very red, and his month stretched, and he
was saying something which sounded.like, "Cute, cute as
a weasel! by jingo ! Come, be good friends' and ride.; "
he added, nodding to her. " If they don't call us late to.
dinner, the rest isn't of much consequence, is it, Miss-
Miss-Duinsumi ?"
"Dunwreath, Jonathan-Candace Dunwreath-that's
her name. No thank you, we've come out for a tramp,
and we feel like carrying the idea through. You jog
along ; we'll keep up with you. Hillo! there's Sister
Polly looking out of the front door!
-" That's so ! Well, I dunno but you'd. as good foot it
after all, because you might mash up the things, and
they've got to last half a year."
. " I wish I had a hammer ; I'd pound old sorrel along
as the guides do on the mountains. They hold 'on by
the- tails, and punch in their orders with a hatchet."


7s$

GRANNY ffU SON AT HOME.

"The little girl kinder laffs at that; she feels better, I
guess," said Jonathan, grinning at Candace.
Blush 'took off his cap and swung it round his head.
"Here we are, Sister Polly ; trot out your nut-cakes !"
She looked like one of the wooden women in a Noah's
ark and was dressed in blue and white check and apron
guiltless of fit, and evbry hair was dragged to the back of
hter head into a knob about the size of a butternut. What
little expression there was in her face was sharp and acute,
and her small gray eyes twinkled brightly from their set-
ting-of wrinkles. She seemed a good deal pleased to see
Blush, who shook her pump-handles of arms and jerked
her rather unceremoniously by the same sticks of mem-
bers, which caused her to hop toward him as the little
toy-people do, who are set up to dance on the piano, and
jig about stiff, like bits of chips as they are ; while Can-
dace stood back quietly, eying her over.
"Oh, one of the old maids! " answered Sister Folly to
Blush's presentation of the girl. "Well, glad to see you."'
Blush puckered up' his mouth and shook his head at
Sister Polly, trying to stop her utterance of the dangerous
words, fearful of a fresh explosion, and was quite aston-
ished to see Candace part her fresh lips in a smile, while
she gave her retrousse nose a little brush upwards, as
was her habit when amused ; and as he looked, he noticed
afresh how extremely cunning and arch she was, with her
crop of short chestnut curls, and her head stuck on one
side, while her eyes danced and sparkled with fun.
"-Land ! what a difference there seems to be between
snooks and sneezers!" said Jonathan. "Why don't you
go and get mad at Folly as you did at me, when I let out
them words ?"
" Because she's one herself-a real old one," answered

GRANNY MUNSON AT HOMI.J79
Candace; "and I don't mind being it half so much when
there's such nice ones."
"Mindin' ain't neither here nor there,'' replied Sister
Folly. "If we don't get caught without nopile into our
lamp, and shut from the great marriage of the last, like
them pawky critters we read on in the good Book, we
needn't mind no great whether we belong to any gaby
fellow in this vale. of tears or no. Come in and make
yourselves to home. I'm to home, and I wish you was.
Set down and be comfortable."
This being Miss Pember's ordinary way of making wel-
come, Blush took it in good part, hung up his cap in the
entry, and he and Candace entered the great, square, low
room, whose floor was sanded in patterns, and nearly half
one side of which was occupied by a vast chimney, hav-
ing a wide hearth, well redded in brick-dust and skim-
milk.
An old-fashioned bake-kettle rested upon a bed of live
coals before the forestick; and Miss Polly hardly waited
to assist at Candace's indoor toilet, which was made by
doing the knotted strings which supported the " shaker "
half-way down her back, before she made a long legged
dive at the iron lid, covered with embers, and jerked it
angrily off.
"Oh you pawky biscuits!:"exclaimed she, "you want to
burn all to cinders, don't you? while a body's saying a
pleasant word. Just like you! there now!"
She had hardly adjusted her little differences with her
cakes, before she discovered the gray cat on her tea-table.
"Pawky cat!" said she, grabbing grimalkin by his tail
and drawing him so swiftly backward, that table-cloth,
"apple sass " and all would have followed in his spread
claws, if Blush had not sprung to the rescue.

I.

_       _ :,^_
'
' .              - .        :

.t


80         GRANJY7 MUNSON AT UOME.
"Take care, Sister Polly !" said he. " Be mistress of
yourself, or china will fall!"
"I'll mistress him, pawky critter !" replied Miss Pem-
ber; and so often had she heard the word already, that
Candace unconsciously went on fitting it to her surround-
ings-"pawky men, pawky women, pawky cat, pawky
boy," etc., till it seemed to become thoroughly descrip-
tive of all Sister Polly's circuinambients.  Miss Peniber
jumped about the room with a dot and carry one gait, as if
her legs were not equal, and Candace felt quite sorry for
her; but she afterwards found out that it was only habit.
iHaving been all her life a diligent spinner, she walked as
if following her wheel, and whatever cooking utensil she
carried in her hand, be it a spoon, fork, or butcher-knife,
did duty for a whirl-pin, when she was perplexed or an-
noyed. This Blush explained to the visitor, ont in the
porch, while the hot bread, so dear to all country tastes,
was getting faked.
Pretty soon Brother David came in on tiptoe, lifting
his broomstick' legs with care, and gently handling his
toes, and being introduced to Candace, he took a good
look at her, and presently hitched his chair close
to hers, and said behind his hand, with much earnest
mess:
"Won't you go outside a minute and put your head in
a barrel and say ' Miss Pember,' and see if it don't sound
nice;" which in Brother David's case was equivalent to a
declaration of love, and an offer of his heart and fortune.
his ruling passion being to get himself a-young wife; and
lie seldom permitted any pretty girl to depart out of his
sight, without proposing the barrel-test.
"Oh you pawky nincompoop," said: Sister Polly grin-
nling. " What do you allow she wants with youi Look at

GRANNY MLUSON AT flOMfE.
your fiddle-sticks. They'll be stiff in your coffin before
long. Miss Pember! Oh shaw! get along with you.
As the cooking-fork, with which she was trying the
sausages, began to revolve in her wheel-hand, Blush seized
her by the waist and spun her about the room, showing
a good deal of blue stocking and list slippers in the round.
"I praise God in thejlance," said she, grinily sniling-
as he landed her breathless and.not offended on the settle.
"Pawky boy-you ought to be spanked,'and you'll get it
too, if you don't leave off your pranks;" and then the
spinster arose, smoothed her apron, and proceeded with
her avocations.
Hardly were they seated at table, when Jonathan said:
"Sister Polly, won't you set down about half a pint of
water, and jest take the chill off."
She rose to dot off and get it, and while she was rattling
the tin basin against the bucket, Blush whispered aside to
Candace:
"He always says those very words every meal, suminer
and winter."
"Why don't she get it ready, if she knows she'sgot
to?" asked Candace.
"You mustn't put hard questions," replied Blush.
"How do I know why women do or don't do things "
Brother David evidently was much out of temper with
Sister Polly's admonition, very short and gruff, contra-
dieting and snapping at all her Bible quotations, and
stirring the bile within her housekeeper's make-up by
finding fault with her eatables-
" Sass as sour as crabs; guess you looked into it, Polly!
"No I thank you, you don't get none of that sheet-iron.
cake down my throat." " If you have got a sup of tea in
the pot that ain't slops, I'll take it." " I dgwish you'd


GRANNY MUNSON AT HOME.

GRWNT1T M.tY2 SOU AT ROME.

cook the salt in one pan and the sausages in t'other."
"Fit to pizen a man by inches," and so on-and before the
dinner was half over; the two got into a dispute about
the fate of Old Speckle's chickens; David holding the'
belief that they had been the prey of the tom-cat called
' pawky," and Sister Polly as loudly setting forth her
idea, that a fox was the thief ; and when the din got past
bearing, Jonathan rose so slowly, that it seemed as if he
would never be done rising, and administered a smart cuff
to the angry disputants, who immediately subsided and
ate 'their dinners.
Blush frowned and grimaced aside to Candace, who
looked frightened. "Battle-te-squirt," whispered he;
"nobody killed, nobody hurt; they don't 'mind "-and so
it .seemed, for that was the end of the fracas,-'and Polly,
after muttering her favorite adjective, and'sniffing a cou..
ple of times seemed to forget all about it.
4fter the dishes were washed, Sister Polly dotted out,
uabbing her hands on her apron, and said, "There now,
them pawky things is out of the way once more, and the
floor swep' up, and David's socks are darned to darnation,
and I've got to go over and look after Granny Munson,
and carry her a pie before night, when the cows must be
milked and the hogs must be fed. Blush, he's been there
before, so, if you've a mind to come along, I s'pose he'll
tag after ; wont you, Blush?"
"Certainly, Sister Polly; I shall be happy to go any-
where with you."-
"Soft-sawder !" replied the spinster concisely, but she
grinned well pleased too. "Don't you b'lieve none of his
nonsense.  He'll make you. think the moon's made of'.
green cheese, like as not," said she aside to Candace.'
Leading the way through a grass-grown walk, bordered

with hollyhocks and corn poppies, and which branched off
to some great flat moss-bordered stones to the tall well-
sweep on the east, sheconveyed them through a wicket-
gate fastened with a wooden latch, and swinging a ball
and chain beside, like a state prisoner, which clinched it to
a post, and ruthlessly picking up her' scanty skirts, so as to
show a measureless reach of blue stocking, she stalked
across the narrow road clicking amongst the pungent
May-weeds, and driving before her a half dozen .hens,
who scarred off with wings and feet in needless terror.
"Sister Polly," said Blush, "why does a hen go across
the road?"
"'Cause she can't go round it, I s'pose."
"Oh no ! that is not the reason," replied Blush; "it's
because she wants to get on the other side, same as we do."
Folly eyed the lad through her twinkling little eyes.
"Pawky critter ; drefful smart where the skin is off.
Ain't he, Candace?" but though her tone was sharp and
her speech taunting, it was evident she admired him in
the depths of her virgin soul.
By this time they had entered a farm-house, old, weather-
beaten,.shaky, and leaning under the weight of years.
Candace was quite startled to behold a' staircase en-
tirely rotted from its moorings, and cutting off the uppet
portion of the house from the use of the inmates, and a
big wheel tottering on the landing above her, just ready
to tilt over upon the heads of passers below.
Sister Polly observed.her fright. "You needn't mind,"
said she;." that thing has been right there half a dozen
years, and so has them old gowns hanging on the wall.
"Granny couldn't go up the stairs,- if there was any,
and them. things ain't worth fetchin' down no way. You
see she's an old maid, and she's lived here alone, ever since

t
8-V

82.


GRANNY MUNSON AT HOME.

the old folks died; and Aunt Ann, she lives over there,
keeps house for Zophler, and she and me we take turns
cleanin' on her up and chorin' for her, and mighty little
thanks we ever get for our pains, I allow, for she is the
ungratefullest critter ; but then we don't do it for thanks.
'Such measure as ye meet shall be measured to you again.'
Now Mark, he's come home. Mark Munson, he's her
brother; but she ain't a mite better off with him than she
was without him. They're a leetle queer. We're all
queer ; ain't we, Candace? "
As she looked sharply at the girl, expecting a reply,
that young maid answered readily: "I dare say you are,
but I know so little of people, that I am full of wonder at
everything outside our own fences. I like you ever so
much."
"I brought her!" exclaimed: Blush joyfully. "She
would'nt come for ever so long; but I stuck to it, and I
conquered at last."
" Why wouldn't she come?" asked Sister Polly primly.
"You needn't a-hurt yourself, I'm sure."
"Because I am forbidden to go abroad," Candace made
haste to say. "I haven't stepped a foot out of the farm
bounds before, since we came there to live. I hope you
will let me come again if I can, " she added, throwing a
sigh .forward into her probable reward for this excur-
sion.
" Come whenever you want to. IJike you proper well.
Some of the girls that come. here ain't fit for soap,
grease" but I like you--you don't stare like a stuck pig,
and snicker at everything I do. Didn't you feel like
laughing when Jonathan boxed our ears ? "
"Not a bit," answered Candace truthfully. "I suppose
you let him, because he is your oldest .brother. Clytie is

GRANNY ffUNlTSON AT HOME.          85
our oldest sister, and she whips us whenever she wants to,
Orchis and me."
"Whips you! The pawky critter !"
"Yes, she does. I dare say she will whip me to-nilt,
when I get home. She can't take away my day, if she
does; so I don't care. You see I love to play, and Clytie
doesn't, and that makes trouble. Oh my ! what's that?"
"Only Granny Munson inside there. She gets obstrop-
olous sometimes, and she makes noise enough to scae
the bushes. You better look sharp how you go near her.
She'll scratch and claw like a racoon. She'd tear your
hair out just as soon as not, if she ketched hold on it.
How de do Granny ?   Iere's company to visit you."
An. old, ugly, withered. crone was Granny Munson.
She was seated in an arm-chair, which she could hitch all
about the room. Through being palsied in her lower
_1 mbs, she was not able to rise or walk.
"She's got a bag of money under that cushion, that is
worn as smooth as glass, she has kep' it there so long,"
explained Sister Polly in a loud voice.
Candace felt quite shy to hear private affairs discussed
so coolly in the presence of the person concerned, and re-
plied in a faint whisper.
" Oh, you needn't mind speaking up. She's as deef as
a post," said Sister Polly; "has been these ten year."
"How do you know they are smooth?" asked Blush,
with true boyish desire to pin the narrator to facts.
"Aunt Ann and I got a peep at them, last summer, one
night when Granny was sick. She had them under her
pillow, and the doctor give her some laudlum; and she
slop' so sound, that for once she forgot her filthy lucre, and
we got it out, and counted it, before she woke up ; but
though we put it back~ in the very Same spot, the pawky


GRlNNY ArUFON AT 0rM.

GRANNY MUNSON AT HO:|E.

critter found it out somehow, and she wanted to claw
our eyes out, every time we got near her, for a month
arterward. Here's your dinner, Granny!"P
"Ei! who be yeI what have ye come for?" cackled
tthe crone. tacking toward her visitors. " I love childun.
Come close up so as I can get a good look at you; my
eyes is old and failin'."
"Love children! yes, as a cat loves soap," put in Sister
Polly.
Though Candace felt afraid of her skinny, withered,
unpleasant face, her attention was centred in her hands
like bird-claws, which worked eagerly, hooking and un-
hooking ; and it was well she observed them, for the old
lady made a sudden snatch at her curls, which she only
eluded by a quick dodge.
"'For shame, Granny !" said Blush, " to treat a pretty
girl so. You've scared her out of seven years' growth.
You ought to remember when you were young and a
beauty yourself.  See the nice pie we've- brought
you."
"Have her next time ! have her next time!" mumbled
Granny, ending the eldrich chant with a screech like a
poll-parrot;and a swift tack in the other direction.
The shriek was her reception of a new visitor, Uncle
Zopher, Aunt Ann's brother, whom Granny hated on ac-
count of an, accident which had happened to her through
him a long time ago, but which she never forgot.
A couple of years before he had carried her to Cherry
Brook in an old lumber wagon with a drop end, and on
returning he stopped to water his horses in the ford.
When he started up the team, their sudden spring tilted
down the drop, and out went the back seat with its help-
less burden 'into the water. Poor Granny being thus

abruptly disposed-of on a mossy rock, in water up to her
chin, like Mistress Mouse who married the frog who
would a-wooing go, whether his mother~would let him or
no, shrieked and skreeled herself hoarse to no purpose.
Uncle Zopher being perfectly deaf, and having no love
for the old lady which should incline him to turn back-
ward and behold her, jogged comfortably home, and drew
up before the farmhouse gate. Aunt Ann and Sister
Polly came-out to care for the cripple, and .reinstate lher
in her arm-chair, and after a survey of the establishment,
screamed in his ear:
" Where's Granny Munson?"
"The devil ! I. don't know vhat's become of her," an-
.swered Zopher, when their united gesticulations and hoot-
ings had pointed out the deficit in 'his load.
Retracing his steps they found her -scratching and
clawing in the pool, and out of breath with shouting,;
and she put all their limbs in jeopardy while they lifted
her back to her place ; and to say she hated Uncle
Zopher, who always stretched his mouth behind a wipe
of his hand when the misfortune was alluded to, and
shook slightly inside, would- be using faint words to de-
scribe Granny Munson's emotions toward her careless
chaperon.
"lHe's after my little money. Zopher, he's a thief!
Mark, come here. Oh, where's Mark'? He'll help me
keep the bag safe. ie want's to steal it himself. Oh,
Mark can't come ; he's gone!"
"Where is'he.put out to, Granny?" asked Sister
Polly.
" To.sell his hair to the barber," squealed the cripple,
laughing and coughing. ." He let it grow long a purpose
and now he's gone to .get his money for it. Mark, he's

"  P-
86'

21,
S7.


88         GEAI-iNY .TUNSON AT HOM.
a miser ; he'd steal acorns .from a blind hog; but he
won't let Zopher get my money."
"'The meanest critter," explained Sister Polly.' When
he fixed up the old barn after he came, he kep' watch of
the pigeons for fear they'd swaller the gravel, because
he meant to sell dirt."
"When did he come? " asked Blush.  I never heard
anything about him before."
"No, he has been gone years and years, but all to
once he turned up like a grave-stun. Here he comes.
How de do, Mark?"
A down-looking, surly-faced fellow, mean in person
and dress, whose very legs looked mean; they twisted
and shambled, as if used to stumbling through evil
ways. He had been a cat-killing, dog-worrying boy, who
shirked work, played truant, lied, stole apples, bullied
small children-a sneaking, pilfering youth; and after a
barn-burning, which ought, to have shut him up, he de-
camped, disappearing entirely for years and years.
Some said he had learned the discipline of the galleys;
and there was a tale afloat of wild life among Hottento.ts
and cannibals; but at any rate, he had appearedfor a
few days about five years back, with a little handful of
money (which he, soon gambled away), many wrinkles,
and now here he was again, broken-down, ill-tempered,
moody, the upshot of his boyhood. He managed tolive
with his sister, profiting by the kindness of her friends,
who would not see an old neighbor starve, and pleading
poverty to every call for his portion of the expenses.
"Oh, visitors," said Mark, shuffling and backing. " I
didn't know. A poor place to come to. We're poor
folks; old and poor."
" Never mind going ovtbr all that lingo now, Mark,"

GRANNY MUYSON AT ffOMB.             g9g
said Sister Polly; "we've -got it by heart a'ready. - Your
looks show what you be, plain enough. This is Blush
Beach, and this is, oh what a pawky critter I am to forgot
names!"
"Candace Dunwreath," said Blush.
"Oh, to be sure, this is Candace Inunwreath, one of
the old maids-"
"Who d d you say? " asked Mark, stopping short and
peering out from under .his eyebrows. " I'm a leetle
hard o' hearin'."
"Candace Dunwreath, I tell you," shouted Sister
Polly; "lives on the Gibson Place. Why, what ails the
old fool ?" she added, giving him a poke, calculated to
double him  up; "make a bow when you stand afore
white folks. There now I"
"Quit o' that, Polly Pember," answered Mark, angrily.
It's time for you to be leavin'-off your monkey shines;
making' so free with tie ster ier sex, prancin' round and
teeterin' so, that a man can't Ifind a quiet place in his own
house."
Pulling a chair into a corner hg tilted his old hat
down over his eyes, and looked around him on the floor
as if he had lost something ; only raising his face when
Candace spoke, and then -finding her eyes fixed on
him in fascinated wonder, he 'slouched quickly, and
moved hither and thither, peering anxiously on either
side.
"What are you looking for ?" asked Blush, rising to
assist the search. "Let me help yon."
"You help me!" said Mark, shrinking into himself
and turning pale ; "you and her!"
" I believe you two are pizen to him," said Sister Polly:
" He looks as if he seen a ghost!"


N

90

GRANNY MUNSO1NAT HOME.

"Who talks of ghosts?" screamed Mark. "There
ain't no ghosts. You shut up, Polly Pember."
"Shut up yourself, and see .how you like it," retorted
Sister Polly. "Only tell us what you're everlastingly'
speering at on the floor."
"I'm looking for-a pin," answered Mark, who had
dropped his eyes and was continuing his search.
"A fiddlestick! I'll tell you, hers looking for his hon-
esty that he dropped hereabouts. forever ago."
"You're a nagging old maid; there's no peace with
you," said Mark, rising and shambling towards the door,
but turning there to take a parting look at Candace.
"Where's you cuttin' to now?" called out Sister
Polly, who seemed to cover all his motions with her
little sharp eyes.
He snarled back something about feeding the hogs,
and they heard him hurriedly clatter over the boards of
the loose floor, and bang the door behind him.
" He has taken a skunner at you, I guess," said Zopher
smiling to Candace. "He don't like to have the girls
look at him; he's modest."
"I didn't mean to," replied Candace, "but he was so
queer, I couldn't help it. You musn't mind what I do,
because Blush has never taken me out a-visiting before,
and I don't know just how to behave. I shall get used
to thingsafter a while. I hope I didn't drive Mr.-Mr.
what's-his-name away?"
"Not so fur but what he'll come back agin," spoke up
Sister Polly; "no such good news. A bad penny that is,
sure to return, the stingy old batch. There's enough of
the same sort left round here. If more of 'em should
take it into their noddles to put out, 'twould be good rid-
dante to bad rubbish."

GRANNY MUSONt AT- HOfR.

91

"That's where the shoe pinches," explained Zopher;
who by following closely Sister Polly's lips had caught
her meaning, and who seemed to take pleasure in teazing
his neighbor; "she's mad 'cause nobody don't spark her
in their store clothes Sunday nights. Come, own up, Sis-
ter Polly."
"Why didn't you ever get married?" asked Blush.
"You're good-looking."
"'Cause Zopher Patterby was the only feller that ever
asked me, and I wouldn't set long side the pawky critter
at no price ; that's why."
"Brace up and waggle him," exclaimed Blush, clap-
ping his hands in great glee. "How are you feeling
now, Uncle Zopher?"
"A leetle slim, Blush, that's a fact. You see these old
maids, they get sharper and sharper; their noses and
their tongues does. You'd best take warning, Miss,
and get married afore all the blood in your pooty cheeks
turns to vinegar like."
"Oh, she'll do that fast enough. She's had a couple of
offers to-day."
Candace laughed and looked at her stiff with its two
names nicely carved upon it, which she had been very
careful not to let out of her sight.
-After giving Granny Munson her dinner, freshening
up the old place, setting things to rights, while Blush
Beach helped Uncle Zopher split and fetch in a nice pile
of wood in the corner, they bade the cripple good-by.
"That lazy varmint would let Granny freeze to death,
I do swan, afore he'd tote a stick," said Zopher. "Not
that I mind doin' it; tain't worth speakin' of no way;
but I do hate to see a man so plaguy shiftless."
" Come back, come back," called out Granny Munson,


92  RANNY 1t UNSON AT HOME.

as-they left her, "till I tell you something. I was once
the handsomest gall in all. Cherry Brook. Now my
teeth's gone, my eyes is blind, my ears ain't good for
nothin', and I ain't fit for nothing' but the worms, nor
hardly that."
Candace shuddered, as she listened and watched the
mopping and mowing of the hideous old creature.
"I think it is dreadful to grow old," she whispered to
Blpsh. "I don't want to get like that; she makes me
afraid."
" No more will you, child ; don't mind her. She was
a beauty in her time-folks called her the wild rose, and
wild enough she was. She don't suffer half so much as
she deserves, for she was wickeder than she was pretty.
The fool that wanted her hung himself up chamber ; I
helped to cut him down; she didn't seem to care a mite.
You just go by the Good Book and be a nice gall, and
you'll be happy. 'Remember now thy Creator in the
days of thy youth.'"
Candace looked very sober and thoughtful after they
got away. Blush quite outdid himself in pranks to
amuse her ; nobody ,escaped, not even Sister Polly and
Uncle Zopher, whom he watched his opportunity to shut
into the cheese-room, from which the rigid spinster
emerged blushing, feeling- of her comb, and settling her
neck into her gown, and as she made a dive and dab at
the lad's ears, she exclaimed:
" Oh, you pawky critter! "
Blush clapped his hands.. "BEnlly for you, Uncle
Zopher! " screamed he. " You kissed her in there, didn't
you ?
To which soft impeachment the old fellow replied with
a winl and a rub of his hands.

92-

'1.

,

GRANNY MUNSON AT HOME.f             93
"I'll tell you what, Miss, you come and see us in water-
million time. She'll say yes, and thank yet oo, by that
time, and we'll have ,a wedding. She's a'most ready."
"Get along, you old batch!" retorted Sister Polly,
flouting him. " You must think I'm soft."
Candace looked from one to. the other, and she some-
how felt sure that the spinster did incline to the man de-
spite her vixenish treatment of him ; and she thought
she would sometime ask her why she had refused him in
her youth, and chosen to live all her life at odds with
him. She wished to hear a love story. You see all
womanhood is the same; the knowledge and apprecia-
tion of such matters is intuitive : as natural as their
breath.
"You'll come, won't you'?" continued Zopher. "It will
be as I tell you., I'll have her afore the year is out, and
we will have a little sing at the doing's. Do you know
Balermy?"
"If she don't she can learn it, Uncle Zopher. You
persevere. I see consent in Sister Polly's eyes (Candace
wondered where, for to her they looked only sharp as
gimlets). I'll bring Candace sure."
"That's the cheese, Blush! I used to play the bass-viol
till that buzz-saw jumped up and bit off my finger. But
it didn't bite off my voice. I can sing with the best of
'em."
After a nice wing in the great butternut, while they
devoured Siste Polly's card gingerbread, and she called
Zopher names and declared she "wouldn't wipe her old
shoes on him," and he smoked his pipe in .happy uncon-
sciousness, Blush reminded his companion that the day
was waning.
" Oh dear, we must go home," sighed she. "I're had


GRANNY MUNSON AT HOME

GRANNY MUNSON AT HOME.

such a good time. I don't mind being an old maid any
more, Sister Polly."
"Aunt Ann does. It makes her hopping. She wants
to be called' single lady,"'remarked the spinster.
"You are coming out of the ranks before long, you
know," laughed Blush. "Hurry up your melon-patch."
"What a bundle of nonsense a boy can be," answered
Sister Polly, turning her back on her favorite.  "You
shall come again," she added to Candace, "and I'll show
you how to make burr baskets and cone frames."
As they were shutting the gate, Candace caught sight
of Mark slouching behind a clump of lilacs, who, after a
sharp inquisitive look at her, edged off, saying to himself:
"Help me, them two!. Dunwreaths round here ain't
healthy."
"What a dreadful looking man that Mark is," said she.
"I wish I hadn't seen him. I feel as if he looked like
the devil."
"Take care Candace; don't be profane," laughed Blush.
"He is not a beauty. I wonder what ails his ankle, that he
keeps that handkerchief tied around it, and how queer he
walks, don't he ?"
In all the pauses in their talk, Candace's thoughts went
back to the mean, slouching fellow, and Blush' said at
last, that she "must not remember him any more, because
he would be sure to plague( her dreams."
Having put up the bars behind the last of her cows,
she stopped to say a farewell word -to Blush, and thank
him for her great pleasure and her good staff.
"I shall always remember what you said about it,"
said she, passing her hand tenderly over the carving.
"1And some day you will ask me to add the sweetheart.
I am ready as soon as you like," replied .he laughing.

Before she had time to look up at him, she heard Oly-
tie's voice in the horse-barn, where she was feeding the
team after their hard day's work, which duty she per-
formed without a pat or caress, or needless word to the
honest beasts, who had. discharged so faithfully the task
required of them.
Somehow life seemed harder and more grinding than
she had ever felt it before, as she turnedher back on her
friend, and.set her face toward the stillness and restraints
of her home.

[.

I _:-,z -

*1

1~

,i
; .

F

94- ;

95

d

l

i
7


17 T HE WOOD-RO USE CHAMBER.

when a look in her eyes held back the words. Still, as the
Bertha wrought on, and the hum soothed' her, the was
fuller of her own thoughts than of Orchis' feelings, though
she loved her very dearly.
"This is a big world," said she at length. "I don't feel
as if I could ever be content to stay inside our fences,:like
our lambs in their fold, any more."
"Then you will get eaten up some day by a wicked
wolf, like the silly thing in our primer. But -how came
you to venture ? I feel frightened at iou!"
"I told you I should have to go along with Blush. -You
know how often he has begged me.. Do you think I have
done wrong, Orchis, dear? I tried, but I really could not
let him go off without following him," said Candace, a'
little fretfully.
"Not wrong at all, pet. I shall not stop forever here
myself. We are not rooted in the ground, like cabbages."
"Oh, I am so glad you don't blame me; and see what
I have got. I am always to keep it, and anytime I like,
I can get 'Sweetheart' carved on it. Blush Beach stands
ready to be it too! He -told me so to-day."
Orchis heaved a sigh as she listened to the history of
the good staff, and she felt a little secret bitterness, "why
have I not a'friend? why is Candace, my little sister, so,
much luckier than I? ". which thoughts she fought down
and kept to herself.
".I suppose Clytie will whip me, when she finds my
work not done. I must bear it as well as I can, but, oh
dear, I am so tired of being beaten and doing what I
don't like."
"No fear of Clytie. I have no friend, so I cduld do
your work 'as well as my own. I am only good to work
and work, it seems."

CHAPTER X.

IN THE WOOD-HOUSE CHAMBER.

ROIIIS was spinning in the wood-house chamber,
. and Candace, catching the buzz of her wheel,
mounted' the stairs, and hastening in, she th'ew
herself wearily upon the bunches of wool in the corner,
without saying a word.
"Where did you. hide yourself, pet ? " asked Orchis.
"Did you fall asleep in the woods, or lose your way
among the elders?  I was hurrying up my stent that I
might slip off in search of you."
"-Neither, sister Orchis, dear. I have done something
wonderful; I've been outside the farm! I've been pay-
ing a visit to some people he knows, with Blush Beach.
Orchis' face fell. A sad feeling would drop upon
her, whenever her .sister talked about her boy friend,
though she ti-ied to drive it off, and would not for the
world have let Candace see it,-a shut out' loneliness,
which made her life chillier-and drearier than ever ; and
as she stepped steadily up and down, pulling out the soft
rolls, and spindling her yarn, Candace chafed at the sight,
remembering how Sister Polly dotted and limped around
her place in consequence-of a life of the same humdrum
work,.and she was just going to speak about it to Orchis,

97y


98,

1. T E IWQODlHOUSE OlHER.

Candacedlooked up inserprie. There was such a hard
ring sin her darling Orchis' ,voice, that it sounded like
Clytie's own, and she was sure she was thinking how selfish
and thoughtless she had been to load her with two labors.
"Don't be angry, Orchis," said she. "You are so good
to save me from the horrid whipping ! so good, to me-
always I I couldn't live, if Orchis did not pet and love
me.

The spinner wound up a couple of rolls, and walked
backward and forward two or three times, before she
stopped her humming wheel with the wooden 'pin she car-
ried, and coming down to the, curly head, she took it in
her hands, and kissed the beseeching face half a dozen
times.
"Now you tell ie what you saw," said she. Her eyes,
were clear and sweet, and her voice low and soft, and
Candace threw her arms around her neck and returned
her caress warmly.'
"Dear Orchis ! good .Orchis ! I hope I shall never,
never make you sorry a minute in your whole life. Not
now; I can't talk here; wait till we are in bed, where no'
one can hear our whispering; there is so much of it, and
I am sure you will like it."

I.

CHAPTER XL

"'THERE'S NAE ROOM FOR TwA.
HE hours were always early at the farm, and after
supper, Clytie went to her room, or out to the
grave under the wailing pines, where she passed
most of the fine evenings of the year, and someof the
stormy ones; never failing to carry there each day an
offering of fresh flowers,, which she placed reverently
above the' breast of the sleeper, with whom she held
voiceless converse at all times, and to whom she often
spoke aloud thoughts which found utterance nowhere
else. Only a low slab of white marble, pure and unwritten,
marked the 'resting-place of the unfortunate man, who
stood to her as a martyr, and whose bitter end she never
for one moment forgot; whose cruel sufferings she still
bore in her .own body; whose soul-presence she felt con-
tinually.
The others were thus left to spend their evenings to=
gether, and those were te only hours which at all
approached sociability among these girls, so isolated, so
cut off from their kind.
Griselda and Vashti, the twins, had commonly some
concurrent interest, something to say about their patch-
work, knitting, or the fruit they dried for market, and

"i

I

,

f

f- ,


THERE AE ROOM FOR TWA."

occasionally the taxidermist invited the others to view:
her collection of birds and reptiles; but being so much
older than the two "children," the seniors insensibly
paired off, a pairing which was assisted by the fact, that
they two occupied the same apartment, as did the younger
ones.
Goody Ruddoek rose with the - dawn, and after each'
hard day's work she was tired enough to .get to- sleep
with her chickens, and her cares culminated in the lock-
ing of the gates, and a general going over and through
the place, making sure that no man or other intruding
., animal had gained admittance to her fold, to endanger her
beloved charge; and while Goody slept, the great blood-
hound, Toss, patrolled the enclosure, watching every leaf
that dropped, giving quick ear to every hum and murmur
which broke the lull of the hushed night.
As soon as they were by themselves and snuggled in
each other's arms, Candace began to talk, going over
every occurrence of her day, which dwelt in her memory
with the vividness of fresh, new experiences. Every word
she heard, each face, all the utensils and surroundings, she
brought before.Orchis in their own shapes, and she dwelt,
on the kind friendliness of Blush, winding up with this
bit of information:
".He says he will certainly come and ask Clytie to let
me go to the paring-bee, and if he does, and she consents,
you shall come too, dear Orchis, for I cannot fully enjoy
any pleasure which you do not share."
"What is a paring-bee? " asked Orchis, parrying the'
concluding statement for some reason of her own, and in
a little cool tone quite unusual with her.
"An evening when they do up apples to dry, as we do
ours, only they have lively, pleasant times. All the neigh

bors go, and after they have finished the work, they have
a sprightly frolic. Oh, how much better it must be, than
to plod and poke, as we are forced to do, where every one
is so sober, that I can't get a laugh even from you, Orchis,
and Glytie whips us, if we loiter or sport a bit. I want to
see it ; I want to be in it ! I feel it must be such fun 1":
4Fun you and I will not soon see, pet. You know for
sure, that Clytie will not listen to any such proposal."
"She shall listen, Orchis! I will go,! As you say, we
are not cabbages; we are live girls; we can't fare on so!
You know it!. you feel it! I'd rather be a potato, and
get boiled! a chicken and get plucked! a pig and get
baked! I'll jump out of the window !I'll steal off!"said
Candace passionately.
"Oh, pet ! " answered Orchis in faint wonder, "how
it has kindled you up, this one friend, this one day. You
used to be satisfied with my love. That will never be again;,
will it? Come, let's go to sleep now, and don't dream of
Blush, and forget that my arm is around you"
"Forget! oh no, Orchis, we will both have him for our
friend. He shall be yours as much as mine."
"You remind me of Goody's old song, pet: 'There is
nae room for twa.' In such friendships I think there is
no room for a third, sae I maun walk behind, pet. I
maun walk behind. Well, let it be as it must. Kiss me,
sweet. You are mine to-night, ny dear little sister. Good.
night."

4't

100                        FOR TWA,-,?


ONLY A WOfMAN.

CHAPTER XII.

ONLY A WOMAN.
'HE next day was scouring time in the milk-room,
Orchis and Candace were busy brightening the
pans, scrubbing the bowls, scalding the earthen
pots, until they culminated their labors by dipping cool
water from the spring in the corner, which they dashed
and splashed over the stone floor, and then swept and
wept, until it was dry and shining, and the whole place.
sweet and fresh as the cowslips in their meadows.
Candace had hindered herself a good deal by peeping
through the vine-clad windows, which looked toward the
gate, and Orchis had also come more than once, and
gazed thoughtfully out over her sister's shoulder, as if she
were trying to see the true path into the large life they
desired; and though their talk had been of the boy
Blush and the unknown joy, called a paring-bee, and their
mutual.longings and must-haves, it all seemed so vision-
ary and impossible, that they were so startled as to turn
pale and clasp each other's hands, when they heard' a
hearty voice shouting out a spirited greeting to Clytie.
She had unlocked the gate and stepped outside to pull
some wandering lupins, which had dared to take root and
bloom at their own sweet will amongst the grass and
weeds of the road-side.

103

"Good afternoon, Miss Dtwreark! I've conae to ask a
favor of you."
Through the opening they could see their sister stoop-
ing at her work, and also hear the low growl of the dog
Toss, who kept close at her side. They held their breath
for her reply, but they waited in vain, for the worker'paid
no heed to him, and methodically continued her occupa-
tion, placing the unearthed plants side by side in. her bas-
ket.
"A favor, Miss Olytie," continued lush, pulling off his
cap and bowing, "a very great favor. We are going to
have a paring-bee, and I want Miss Candace to come.
Clytie rose slowly and stood erect, -having finished her
labors, and confrointed the eager boy, flushed with the
-excitement of the long projected conversation, to which
he had been dared by Efrie, and which had been the sub-
ject of so many conjectures, prophesyings, and warnings
among his five aunties.
They say she carries a pistol; I am afraid she'll shoot
you," said Arabella. "She will make her great dog'
cJhaw you up," said Elevir, a little provincial in her Engr
lish. "The Tom-big-one will toss-you over the fence and
break all your bones, like the Ogre of the den," said Gy-
net. "Do be persuaded not to go," pleaded Margery;
"they are infidels." "Jacky wouldn't, because lie dared
not," laughed Efwie; and that clinched a resolution strong
enough before.
While he looked at Olytie holding a bunch of lupins in
her hand, he tried to say to himself: " Only a woman!
the world is full of them. My father told me they were
our inferiors, made for our pleasure," and so on. He
could not repress a slight shudder.  he looked .so mar-
blerstill, so apart every way, yet so wonderful in her re-


104

ONLY A WOMAN.

pellent beauty that'the lad's gaze was fastened upon her,
and a feeling, half hate, half dread, role up in his heart,
subtle, inexplainable, born of her eyes, deep and black,
which her first words condensed into an impatient antag-
onism.
"'As you have a. right to the high road, you will do
well to use it, because if you stop here where you' trespass,
I shall give you in charge to Toss, who you see is both
willing and able to undertake the business." ,
A tall hound with cream-colored hide and bright liver
spots confronted the youth, and her large eyes full of,
red veins looked her eagerness, as well as her heavy jaws
supported her power, to finish what .she undertook; but
Blush had high physical courage, and he stood his ground
bravely; though it was odd, that while he answered, un-
consciously avoiding the woman's gaze, he plainly saw it,
and the soft flaxen hair, which parted like floss from a
clear white line in the centre of her head and caressed
hersears, lightly shading them as if refusing to be kept in
prison bonds; and he heard the fall of the gray shaker
upon the ground when she rose, erect, and careless of it,
and the wind sweeping across her face.
"Now, Miss Clytie, what good would it do you to set
your dog on a peaceable lad (she does wear a pistol; there
it is now sticking in her belt). If you do, I shall defend
myself as well as I can, and as I am outside your yard,
you cannot order me off, and you will be punished by the
law, as well as hated by all decent folks for being so
blood-thirsty to a fellow, who would be glad to be a good
neighbor, and have a bit of fun with your small sister.
I'm sure she will say 'yes' to our frolic, if youtwill per-
mit me to get to speech of her'; and I promise you I will
take all sorts of care of her."

ONLY A WOMAN
.4

105

"You do well to speak to me of laws; I know all
about their wisdom and justice."
" I believe you, Miss Clytie ! of course you know lots
that I have forgotten: I mean, that I never heard of.
Thank you, so. I will just step in and see Candace, and
bid her to the bee. I like to attend to those little things
myself. Who, was it who said, he'd go forty miles to see
a man, before he'd write him a letter? I feel just so
about giving invites,-I like to look at the girls, when I.
ask them. I can tell whether they mean to coie or will
give me the mitten.-I never did see such bright posies!
how red and yellow they are! Oh, there she is, I see her !
-mad I go up and do my errand?2."
" Nof!"
"What!, not just half a dozen wordsV nothing private,
Miss Clytie. You are welcome to hear every sentence."
As Blush took couple of steps toward the gate, Toss
growled and Clytie said: "If you persist in intruding I
shall order the dog to take care of you. You see what
she is; there she stands!"
"But what sort of a woman are you!" exclaimed Blush,
in spite of himself, meeting the black eyes, "to talk of
having me murdered in a still voice and with such a face
as that ! Are you not human, like other folks? You
have no right to keep the little girl a prisoner, and beat
her as you do. I will see her ; you shall not hinder me!"
he finished with a sense of intense irritation, kindled by
the dead fire of her look, so emotionless, so lacking in
human sympathy.
Whether Toss obeyed a motion of Olytie's hand, or
considered the conversation to have arrived at the proper
point 'for"her interference, she sprang forward with a
deep bark, and Blush had a chance to need all his activ-
5*

4


106             ONLY A WOMAN.

ity and nimbleness, when brute force had so much the
best of it.
It might be interesting to note the quick passage of
thoughts through the human brain, and how many are
able to revolve around a point of time. Blush wished a
good number of wishes, many more than he took breaths,
while the dog was dashing at him ; as, for instance, that
Clytie was better tempered; that he had a good stout
club (and he' also remembered the' staff he had orna-
mented for Candace, but which still lacked the 'sweet-
heart'); that the brute would drop in a fit; that he, Blush,
was safe at home; that he was inside the high board fence
around Candace, and Toss out,; that his friend Precious
Plunket was at hand. But a wish for the help which was
close by never fluttered among his desires.
Ajax was the help. Ajax who shoved his huge self
through the gate, and after a snarl'at his arch enemy, a
survey of the belligerent parties, and a hasty smell at
Blush's clothing, he threw himself upon the blood-hound's
neck, burning to avenge his own injuries as well as de._
fend the friend-lie had adopted for dear love of his fellow-
sufferer, Candace; and once his blood up, even Clytie's
dreaded voice would have had no power over him; but a
statue of ice could not have been more impassive during
the struggle of the animals.
It looked almost as if Ajax took a leaf out of his
antagonist's book, for he dashed at once into her favorite
mode of attack, and pinned her throat the first lunge.
The two beasts rolled over and over in arough-and-tum-
ble, noisy fight. It was quite plain from the inflaming
nature of the vociferations they bandied, that they were
using the strongest Saxon in their' language to describe
each other, and their states of mind.

Candace and Orchis, who had been drawing gradually
near and nearer to the forbidden gate, put their heads
out just as they :closed, and Candace forgot everything
but love and fear for her favorite.
"Oh, my dear Ajax!" screamed she, rushing upon
him, and vainly trying to part the combatants with her.
girl-strength.  "Horrid Toss! 0 Blush, don't let her
kill my dear good Ajax. Help me Orchis; do take her
off!
As she was tugging Toss by the tail with her feet well
braced and at her arm's length, she got a tumble, for the
bloodhound fell back, wounded and powerless. Ajax
had put his sharp teeth quite through the big artery in
her neck, and both were stained with her hot, spirting
blood. As the enemy ceased to struggle, the conquei-or
considered his work finished, and with a parting snap of
his. jaws lie left her and crept whining to Blush's feet,
who had entirely lost his headdaring the quick following
charges of the affray, upon which Clytie gazed without
passion or pity, holding the lupines looseW grasped in.
her small fist, and the other hand hanging by her side,
like a statue of insouciance.
And nov appeared a new actor-Vashti-who strode
quickly down the garden-walk, and after an instant's sur-
vey of all parties, she stooped and felt the dog's wound;
then dragged her ruthlessly by her collar to the horse-
barn, where she picked up and tied the gashed artery in
a fervor of surgical enjoyment; and having bound up-
the place with the proper cataplasm, she tossed her on a
bed of straw and left her.
As soon as it was really over, Candace remembered
where she was, and after a frightened look at the marble
beauty of her sister's face, and a piteous glance at Blush,
,

ONLY A WOMAN.      -      107'


OTL    AI WOMAN.

she .stole in, followed by Qrchis, who had scarcely re-
moved her eyes from Olytie all the while. Ajax was in
a puzzle at first, being divided between his allegiance to
his boy-friend and his girl playfellow ; but the old prefer-
ence at length got the better of him, especially as he re-
ceived no encouragement from Blush, and after wagging
his tail and licking his bloody jaws, as he whined up to
the lad, he turned his eyes on, Clytie, and then whisked
through the gate, galloping after the children.
So the youth was left tete--tete with Olytie, and the
first thing he did was to pick up her shaker and politely
offer itto its owner ; stammering a good deal of apology,
entreaty, explanation, propitiation, and hope for the fu-
ture. He might have saved his breath. She wheeled
slowly about without once looking at him, walked inside
the gate, and presently he heard her turn the key, which
locked hin out of his great expectations.

CHAPTER XIII.

ORCHIS MAKES UP HER MIND.

/  HE young girls had reached the milk-room, and
were exchanging scared whispers, when Clytie
overtook them.
"You have been talking with this fellow it seems,
Candace," said she, "since you know his name, and he
dares call you by yours so familiarly."
' He talked with me first. He was sorry for me the day
you .beat me and Ajax. He was looking through the
fence and saw it all," said Candace, while Orchis, who
had never heard the girl speak so firmly before, examined
her carefully, wondering and half-guessing where she
got her daring. "It is born of her new friendship, she
is not afraid now, because she is known and sought by a
boy who will soon be' a man. He inspires her with Ai8
courage," was her conclusion.
"He will have a chance to be what you call 'sorry'
again, if you again disobey. Do you understand?"
" Oh, yes! I understand-whipping-I have been faith-
fully taught; but Blush Beach is very nice and friendly,
and I want a friend so much."
"And you also, Orchis;' you shared this transgression;
you have also gained a friend?"

108


11RHIS MAKES UP HER M0 MD.

11'1

It is impossible to describe the metallic ring pf Olytie's
voice, so harsh, so inclement, so mocking.
"I have no friends, Clytie," answered Orchis; raising
eyes, deep.as Olytie's own with their fathomless blue, and
meeting full those which pitilessly scanned her.  I have
neither sought nor found such a bliss, such a glory and
richness. If I were sure I could certainly attain unto
it, I would never lose a moment till I began the-search,
nor cease till I compassed it."
Clytie did not for one instant remove her gaze from
her young sister, though whatever the charm might be
which held her, appeared not. Pretty soon she turned to
Candace:
" I will have no more babbling, no more friendships !"
"Won't you let us go to the bee I" asked the girl, who
dared all in a strange spirit of persistence, rather than lose
the coveted pleasure.
"And would you, a convicted felon's daughter, accept
and justify his death by bandying equrtesies with his
murderers? Let me hear no more of it!"
"Our father died in prison, but not a guilty man,"
said Orchis, her eyes deepening and glimmering from their
dark depths.
Since, then,.you are not able to revenge his torinents,
at least keep clear of the humanity which accomplished
the infamy!"
That niglit Candace cried herself to sleep in Orchis'
arms, while the elder child lay awake through the long
hours thinking; and this was the result of her vigil:
"A  friend is a good to be coveted. Candace is a
lucky girl to have found such a treasure. In spite of
the great calamity which enshrouded them, there must be
a place in the large world for them, innocent sufferers.

Sufferings ought to end, unless they punish guilt. Even
then, why should be there more than one hell, and what
is the use of forestalling the fire and brimstone here in
this life?  With only seventeen years behind her, she
could not drag such a lengthening chair; she must find an
outlet from the dumb stillness of the days. She was
willing to try it in face of Clytie's 'prohibition, at the
risk of trouble; and if Blush Beach was persevering
enough in his friendship to come again, she would take
Candace to the bee. There she could at least look on
and learn what her kind was like, and be glad in her lit-
tle sister's happiness." At this point she kissed the rosy
cheek pillowed upon her breast, and waited for the
dawn, and the sleep angel hovering near, softly closed
her eyes and gave her pleasant dream.

QE CEIS MAKES " Up HE 1  1I. YD,

110

4


3V

ON CNNAIT L'AAMI A U BENSOIJN

CIIAPTER XIV.

ON CONNAIT L'AMI AU BESOIN.

YLUSH had a full audience of his women folks
to listen to his account of his adventures, and
the comments and instructions to the lad were as
'diverse as the characters which aired them..
Arabella said, "So much for working-out of doors like
men." Margery ascribed the inhospitable hardness to a
lapse from orthodoxy, and failure to attend on the
stated means of grace. Elevir examined the clothes of
her pet, mindful of tears and patches. Gynet hugged
and fondled him, and thanked the Lord that he was safe
from the men of Belial (meaning Clytie and'her dog).
And the blooming Effie took him aside to ask all about
the girls, and talk over the bee, and to inquire especially
how Orchis looked without he'r shaker bonnett and it
was with this coadjutor that he discussed his chance of
probable success, and got strength and upholding in his
obstinate resolution to "stick and hang like a dog to a
root," as he expressed it, and the result of all this talking
and the sly fun Effie poked at him. for getting locked out
after all his boasting, was a furious determination to carry
his point, and have Candace by his side at the apple
basket; and try " paring fortune with her before the ev-
ening should reach its nadir," and he practised by himself

113

throwing over his shoulder the long. delicate crimson curls
he skilfully cut from the ruddy fruit, so as to make them
fall D's, till he felt pretty'sure of being able to carve
his fate out of an apple-paring, as well as to cut " sweet-
heart" on a staff, and cover himself with glory among
the five women who were quite inclined to nurse the
germs of love in the boy, which they had never then-
selves experienced.
Blush was fearful that Candace might avoid him in
the lane at trysting-time, driving home her lowing
kine at evening, as he failed to find her after the fray;
so he rose early and hastened down to meet her the next
morning, and get a promise from her; and sure enough,
there she was under the great maples, walking sorrow-
fully, with downcast head, so busy thinking that she did
not hear his footfall on the soft turf.
"Good morning, sweethearti1" he called out cheerily.
The hurried glance she cast about her, showed that a fr h
interdict had been laid upon her.
" I am glad I found you; you see I got up early on
purpose. Where were you last nighti"-
" In the house. I sent Ajax for the cows."
"Yes, so as not to see me. I know all about it, but it
is of no fase; I won't be turned outso easy. I mean to
stick closer than a brother; I don't care a fig for what
happened.yesterday. I can bring Olytie to my mind
sooner or later, if you will be smart and not afraid.
How is Toss? she got well flaxed out, didn't she, poor
dog?"
"She is doing well ; Ynshti took care of her. Vashti
can cure anything ; but Clytie will never speak to her
a am. I expect she will shoot her. I. am afraid she will
s ioot you."


O1   oxx,1IT L'A&amp;AI Ad U BES0I.    115

"Pooh! I am not. Don't let's talk about it. I came
here to get you to promise to come to the bee. I'm going
to call for you. I'll storm the place. I'llknock the gate
down, if I can't get in without. Miss Clytie can't fool
me."
"Orchis says we will come," replied Candace; "she
says it is right. She is sixteen and a half, and she'says
we will be women before long, and we must try to find
out how other women act, so as to be ready to act like
them."
"I hope not like some of them; but Orchis is as
straight as a plumb. She's a peach'! the real grit. I
like Orchis, and Eflie will be glad of her and be kind to
her. And there's Precious Plunket; he will sit at our
basket. flow jolly nice ! Hillo Ajax, good fellow ! did
you beat her. I am afraid you will come to grief though,.
if Clytie is as mad as they say she is."
"She is not mad, Blush ; she never seems to feel any-
how like the rest of us-; but I can't help trembling to
think what she may do to you. She walks right along,
and kills things that come in her road ; and never looks at
them afterwards. I wish you would be careful."
"Nonsense ! I guess sbe, knows too well what would
happen to her  she meddled with me. The law would
fix her."
"Clytie does not care for law; she despises it."
"That wouldn't hinder her from paying its penalty.
She must know that inside. Don't you fret. She don't
want to end her days on a gallows; not she. I'm not
a mite afraid."
"Blush ! if you knew smething dreadful which had
happened to us a great whil ago, could you still like Orchis
and me, if we were not to blame?$",

"Of course I could, and would. What do you suppose
I care about what happened, so long as you are pretty
and I like you."
"So long as 'we are pretty !' Is that the way yon
feel? Then if I should get scars on my face, or go lame,
or anything like that, you wouldn't run after me any
more. I don't care for that sort of friendship. I should
like you just as much if you was all smashed to bits, and
as ugly as pizen."
"What's the use of disputing about such things that
are never going to happen. That's what my father used
to call 'getting up bug-bears and fighting them."'
"Well, you can't be my sweetheart after all, I think. I
will wait for the swarm you, promised," said Candace,
bursting into a laugh at his vexed face, feeling that she
had crowded him into a bad box from which he could
not gracefully get out.
"I just told you, Candace," said he soberly, "that I,
should always be your friend, boy and man, if you want
me; and you'd better think twice before you refuse a
friend. I shall be older by and by, but I shan't change
much, except to get bigger and know more."
"And you will stand by Orchis and me, no matter what
folks say ?."
"Folks ! who are folks ? I haven't got any myself. I
shall be your sweetheart. I remember my father's teach-
ing to mind my own business; but when I've done the
carving on the staff, then your business will be mine, and
then let them- blaze away; who cares?" 
"Nobody, so you don't change your mind, when you
get out of roundabouts and get into coats like the minis-
ter you showed me the other day in his black elothes.
Don't laugh, Blush; I feel so serious."

)

. AIT '.4/I",I AU BESOI .


ON CONNAZT VAMI AU BESOI.        117

116       ONC ONNAIT L'AM1. ALU BESOIN.

As she gave her nose a little push he laughed the
more, but as tears sprang to her eyes he stopped quickly.
"Everything is so queer, Blush. I feel it now, when I
begin to have the chance Orchis and I have been talking
over- so long. I'm  half afraid to venture. I wish -I
could confide in';you, but. I must not. You will have to
take us as we are, ahd make the best of us."
" I will, sweetheart. When I saw your sister strike you
that day, I had to clinch my fists to hold still, but I did
it. I gave you the chance afterwards to speak out, but
you shut up your secret. Of course, I know you've got
a family history.; I don't want to pry into it. We have
had ,some good times already, and we're going to have
lots more, as sure as my name is Blush Beach.',
"I hope so. I don't know mnch, but Ifeel all through
how honest and good you are. I'll tell Orchis. But
I've got a little trouble. I should like to fix up, and go to
your party out of tie front door. I feel mean to be
deceiving Olytie, though I really am certain, and Orchis
is certain, that she has no right to keep us in."
"You look better as you are, sweetheart, than. the rest
do in their foldirols. Don't feel mean. Feel as if you were,
a princess escaping fromher to er, or a fairy coming out
of a prison: and be sure and be"ready early, because if
you do have to climb the fence, we don't want to be in a
hurry about it. I know where's a first-rate ladder, and
I'll have it on hand."
"Orchis thinks she can get the key from Goody.
Ruddock."
"Don't believe it, Candace. That old creature is as
faithful to your sister as Toss herself, and I'd rather help
you over the wall anyhow. I like the idea: an adventure,
you know, like the three Spaniards, Peter Simple, or,

the Children of the :Abbey that Precious Plunket lent
me."
".But I don't want any adventures," replied Candace.
"I want to be a good girl and have good times. What a
day that was at Sister Polly's, wasn't it? when I got my
two offers: 'Say, Miss, just stick your head in a barrel and
say Miss Pember, and see if it don't sound nice,'"she con-
tinued, whispering to the lad behind her hand.
Blush looked at her as she gave the little brush up-
wards to her nose, and listened to the merry laugh which
accompanied his quotation, and admired her rosiness and
arch eyes.
"I tell you what, Candace: there never was a girl so
cut out for good times,-a pleasant, cheerful, nice life,..-as
you are ; and you are as good and true, and as cunning as
you can be too ;--and to think that I arn the only boy
you know! Now when you come to see'?ecious Plunket
and Tip Crowfoot and Pom Blossom, and the rest, you
mustn't like them. better than you do me. I believe,
after all,  had better leave you home. It won't ever
seem just  e same as now, after you have cocked your
eye at other fellows and talked so free. I want a sweet-
heart all to myself."
"Don't say that, Blush; I don't like it ; it does not
sound pretty. If I talk free, it is because I don't know
any better; and I shall learn as fast as I can,;-and how
queer !" she added after a moment's reflection. "Of
course you chat and sport with all the girls you -know,
and tell them things, and toss up your cap, and carry on.
No; on the whole, I think I'd rather not go to the bee.
You wouldn't ever seem just the same to me after I had
seen you do it."
She was arranging a handful of bright leaves with some


-ON CONNAIT y'AMI AU BESOIN.

bitter-syeet and maiden's-hair shyehad plucked -from Ahe
wallisshe stepped slowly along ; and as her head was
bent, intent on her dainty occupation, he could not tell
for -his life whether she jested or was in earnest. The
irt look tshe gave him showed that there was a mingling
of both in her speech, for though her eyes and lips smiled,
there was a wistful unrest, quite unlike her usual self, in
her manner.

P

CHAPTER XV.

CANDACE GETS INTO MISCHIEF.
T was not difficult for the two girls to elude Olytie,
whb never watched them, and was always in her
room by seven o'clock, or out at her grave under
the wailing pines, unless kept abroad by her hunting;
and this evening she did not come at all to. the supper-
table, but locked herself into her apartment, fetching
away the faded flowers from her retreat, which she had
replaced with fresh ones. Strange enough they were too,
an eyrie group upon the sleeper's breast: half a dozen
stately arums, their stems speckled as a frog's back, their
fancifully cut leaves flecked with snow, and their fiery,
calla-shaped blossoms shooting straight upward in flam-
ing splendor. There was no lack -of variety in her deco-,
rations of her altar.  All the beauties and sweets her
garden yielded were' culled at their best, and arranged
with a careful richness a delicate fancying, which might
have been a study.
Orchis methodically made herself tidy in her clean
home-made dress of blue check, smoothed her hair, which,
like her elder sister, she wore close cropped in her neck.
She fastened into it a couple of buds, which nature
taught her to place in the most becoming way; and such
a trim, prim girl was hardly ever seen. Her scanty gowa

1B


10  ANDACd G1aTS INTO MISCHIEF.

following the outline of her slender shape, which was able
to bear the simplicity ; and not a frill or bow or orna-
ment except her rose-buds to take the attention from her
severely beautiful face.
Naturally she desired to see herself as others saw her ;
and as there was not, nor ever had been, a mirror in the
house, and it was too dark to look, like Narcissus, into
the water-pool, she lifted her window, pinned a black
cloth to the sash outside, and holding a. candle closely,
she had a substitute, of which she made the most, literally
seeing herself in a glass, darkly.
Having thus completed her meagre toilet, she found
time to wonder what had become of Candace, who had,
skipped: off, after her scrub and polish and a kiss of her
bright, fresh, firm lips, like the cool velvet of a red rose,
with a towel pinned around her plump shoulders, saying:
"I'll be back in a minute."
So many busy thoughts were working in her mind, so
many conjectures, fears; and hopes, that Orchis paid not
her nsual loving heed to the caresses of her pet; but she
was. so long away, that she was getting uneasy enough to
think of hunting her, when lo! she sprang into the room
with a laugh and a bound, and landed at her sister's feet;
but so metamorphosed that Orchis could hardly believe in
her identity, and felt half afraid, as of a fairy changeling,
till a fond hug and a showeriof kisses proved her the real,
human, loving child.
A soft, singing robe of azure crape, a lace 'kerchief
crossed in front and knotted at the back of her waist, her
eisp curls snooded with pale blue-ribbons, and a knot of
the same upon her breast holding some crimson buds. She
looked lovely, arch, saucy, and as charming as fifteen
eodld be.

120

ADAUE    GET SATO XAISUBEF         121
uHow do you find me in finery?" whispered she
"Will I do for the princess escaping from her tower,-or
the Kelpie Queen i'
But what does it mean, Candace$ " replied Orchis,
also under her breath. "Has Blush dared-?"
Her only solution of the mystery was that the rash and
importunate youth had surreptitously conveyed to the
little witch such garments as he deemed needful. for
her appearance in his company: and a displeased
frown gathered between her intense eyes at the bare
thought.
No; Blush hasn't dared, nor dreamed of daring.
found my wants in our old garret."
You took them from Olytie's trunk ! "replied Orehis,
pale and still; the black trunk, which has never been
opened."
Yes, that awful old thing, over which we used to tell
so many stories, and use up so many guesses; but don't
make such eyes at me, Orchis.; you spoil all my pleasure.
I won't hurt the stupid things ; do them good to air them;
-and as for Clytie Dunwreath, I don't care a whit ! she
ought to see to us and help us; it is her duty as our
elder sister. Blush says so, or what means that,; and I
know he is right."
This was such a long stride toward the independence
she had only seen in the dim future, that it tool Orchis'
breath away; and though she loved her pet well enough
to make great personal sacrifices for her, she felt it quite
impossible to countenance such bold conduct.
"You must not wear the things, Candace ! Come,
hasten and put them back ; and I will help you to get on
your clean gown ; there's a dear ; .do ! E have had
trouble enough to feel right about stealing off, as we shall
0


12

CAI DACE GETS INTO AMISCHISJ1

be obliged to, without adding this to it ; I cannot go a
step unless you do."
".Oh yes, you can, Orchis; I look so nice ; don't I?
Here, let me see me in your pretty eyes; " bringing her
face close to her sister's and smiling mischievously; "I
told you so, I am lovely ! and look at the pins I've taken
the trouble toput in the skirt to get it short enough; I
shall dance to-night,,maybe ; folks do dance in the world,
and I must do as others do. I hope I shall not sit upon
any of the points and get stuck ; I should have to scream
if I did, aA then there would be a state of things ! I
found the dress and ribbons and slippers, and all done up
together. Clytie has a little foot; and this knot was
also in the paper" (putting her fingers .to one at her
throat)-; "and it had some old withered flowers sticking
in it, which, you see, I have replaced to my liking, and 1
know they all belong together. There was a label or
something on a card; I didn't stop to make it out. ; Oh!
'there's Blush! that is his cherry-bird's whistle ; come
quickly, Orchis ; do, dear sister!"
Orchis resisted her hands; which strove to pull her
forward; her face was white and her eyes glistened as
she looked at her pleading pet.
"Don't be selfish, Orchis: I'll bear all the blame. Oh !
what shall I do to coax heri There won't be any blame.
I am not doing wrong. 0 Orchis,, don't you love me ? "
"Selfish ! Candace-me selfish to you?$ Oh no, dar-
ling, I do love you, and I will prove how much. Come
along !"
" Kiss me first; look sweet at me."
"There's a kiss then, dear; I'll get my face right pres-
ently. I feel conscious that you are doing wrong, but I
am going to let you without more ado. Selfish! oh no;,

CAVDACE GETS INTO HISCHE.

never selfish. There! that's the end ; now it is in the
past; and the past is dead."
"I-don't understand you, Orchis dear!"
"Very likely, for I don't half understand myself. Are
we all ready?2 Shut the door softly ; hush !"
Right away, after parting with Blush in the meadow,
Candace had mounted to the garret loft. It was' half
filled with furniture-cases. which had never been. un-
packed, chests which had never been moved, since they
were hoisted there five years before. She remembered
watching the men remove the great doubt window
under the.ridg pole, and haul them up with ropes; and
she half recol ected a resonant wail as one of them
dashed against the w 1 in its upward journey, and how
she and Orchis h   said, "Now the piano is crying to
have to be shut p there."  There were also many boxes
and trunks piled on each other, and from, some of them
she meant to fetch what she sought. She peeped and
tried one after another; they were nailed fast, and cov-
ered with dust and cobwebs.   She and Orchis had
played rag-baby and house-keeping behind them many a
time, replenishing their family, as often as they felt a
lack, from among the cobs of the corn-house close by.
She was about to give up her search in despair, when she
saw, tucked under the eaves, a bunch of keys, twenty or
more, buried in dust and dry-rot, crusted with rust. She
hurriedly fitted them one by one to the large trunk, back
by itself, and she found' the right one. It turned,
snapped the lock, and she lifted the lid.
It was full of dresses, shawls, and other women's
gear. So full that she could not help lifting the hand-
some things, the like of which she had never imagined
and admiring them. One 'package fascinated her, and

123


"DA C GETS I2TO MISCHIEF.

she made choice of it directly: a blue crape, wrapped in
a paper apart from the rest, also enclosing a card upon
which were a few written words.
Hearing Goody Ruddock's voice below, she dropped
the package behind the boxes, and letting down the lid,
stole away in a. tremor of hurry and fright at what she
had done.
A dozen times that day she looked for Orchis to tell
her about it, but she had gone down the long wood
nutting, and did not return till almost evening ; and then
so silent and quiet that Candace could not open her lips;
but resolved to take her by storm; that'course being
sometimes, she had learned, the safest, when she desired
to carry a point with her firm, unselfish sister.

J

19

CHAPTER XVI.

THE BUSY BEE.
HE escapade was successfully accomplished byH
the help of a fruit-ladder ; and, when the two
girls were safely landed on the wrong side of4
their high fence, they saw in the dim light a young man
awaiting them.
Candace proceeded immediately to, the ceremony of
introduction: "This is my dear sister Orchis, Blush."
"Most happy to make Miss Orchis' acquaintance,' red
plied the youngster politely, and he felt the hand he took
to tremble in his clasp as she answered him simply:
"I hope your friendship will be worth the trouble and
thinking it has cost me."
"I'll do my level best to make it so, believe me '" said
he warmly, with a hearty squeeze of her fingers; "and I
think I shall succeed. it is a queer way to begin an ac-
quaintance by jumping into it over a high fence, isn't it?
But any way will do, so it goes on and we get comfort
out of it. Your sister whipped me into Candace's heart
with such licks, that I have stuck fast there ever since,;
and now you drop down like a dove out -of ihe  clouds,
among the bright stars up yonder, and I mean to hold
you tight as long as I live. I' feel as if I hal gained a

124

, . ,.


126

THE BUSY BBE-

THE BLTSY BEE.

couple of pretty sisters, and you see if I don't make a
tiptop brother."'
"Yes; thank you !" thought Orchis, setting him apart
in her mind as the sole property of her pet. "I am glad
she has got one who suits her so well. He is nice."
Pushing through the bushes and stubble, they came out
after a while on the highway by scrambling over an old
wall, whose briers fought, resisted, and punished their
temerity, as is the nature of briers. Happy ye who are
not set to struggle and bleed among human thorns, who
tear your hearts and prick all your dearest sensibilities
into suffering. Those unsouled tormentors could only
leave some scratches and a few blood-drops as memories
of their spite; and then Orchis walked silently by Can-
dace's side, who chatted and sparred and laughed, glee-
ful as a wild bird escaped from a cage ; and her heart
almost stopped beating when they neared the old stone
house all alight, and a great dread of the new life she was
daring, fell oppressingly upon her.
"Wait just a minute," said she, laying her fingers on
her sister's arm. "I don't want to go in fluttered; let
me think a little. Yes; they are made like us; we have
one common father; we are innocent children of good
people; it is our world as much as theirs ; we have a right
to all its beauties, and to share all its goods; we only
seek for our lawful part. I will not be frightened or
turned back. I must go on."
The two, who had been watching her, listening to her
brief murmured words, felt that she was battling with her-
self, and took each one of her hands, as she made a step
forward. . The electric love-touch and the hearty boy-
hand helped her; and she wore her usual serene face
when'the door opened to admit them.

Miss Effie, who received the trio, replied to Blush's pre-
sentation with a kind greeting:
"Glad to see you. You come hand in hand like the
babes in the woods. I must kiss you, to taste if your lips
are not flavored with the blackberries you ought to have
plucked on your way."
"Out of season, Aunt Effie; but the bushes are 'all
there, rampant as ever."
"Yes, as full of total depravity as they can stick."
"We got enough of their sticking ; truly, tiger-cats
couldn't be more rapacious," said Candace easily.
Whilethe blooming Effie was helping, and looking,
and making talk, and Candace was arranging her ribbons
with new delight before the small, old-time mirror with
its gilt balls and landscape atop, the four sisters came in
a body to welcome their guests.
"fHow nice of you to come !1" said Arabella, giving
both her hands. "We've been neighbors long enough to
be acquaintances,-and we. ought to be friends. I hope
you will come often."
"Yes, indeed," chimed in Margery, waving her fin-
gers, and offering them; white and dimpled, to Orchis;
"as you have found the way, you must not forget it.
You must also come to church and take a seat in our
pew."
"And belong to our Dorcas," said Elevir; "we are.
filling a box for the gourds, and we want to enlist all the
young, spry fingers we can. 'I've got a bran new pattern
for a roll needle-book, which is a perfect beauty; I'll show
it to you."
"Blush is a good lad, and I think the best thing he
has ever done is to coax you to 3alquither," said Gynet..
" Let us go, lassie ; go to the braes of Balquither,"

127


128               THE IBUSY Bm
hummed Effe. "Now we must hasten downstairs and
get to work at our baskets. Preciotis Plunket is there
waiting"
"Not till they promise to come again," insisted Mar-
gery. "I will have these girls in our circle."
Youare very good," answered Orchis, modestly. "I
also wish it; I came here this evening to find a place
among you.'"
Looking in her firm, quiet face, they all felt that she
was earnest. and true, and conceived a respect for her ;
but they kissed. Candace, and Effie put an arm around
her waist as they descended ; while Orchis followed
alone ; no one placed a hand on hers.
The other four remained en haut awhile, discussing
the new-comers and exchanging opinions; but as they all
talked at once, and nobody listened, I am afraid they
were not much profited by the converse.
When Blush caught sight of the young girl in blue
crape and lace kerchief, with bright eyes and cheeks, and
another in homespun check, as handsome as Diana; he
couldn't think of anything to say. But Candace, whose
-heart beat high, and who looked merry and arch and
piquant and charming, began the talk herself, chatting
gayly, perfectly at her ease; as if with her society clothes
she had also put on her company manners. It was like a
dream to the youngster, and he wouldn't for his life have
dared to call this fine lady, "sweetheart."
Pretty soon Precious Plunket came up as if he had.
been waiting, and got presented; and Candace fixed her
eyes on him, and then glanced at Blush, remembering
their talk;. and as she laughed archly, he remembered it
too, for he shook his head, at her slyly, and put his fists
infghting trim behind- his friend's~ back.

f'

.THE BUSY BEE. N      129

There was a great buzz and hum of busy voices, not all
over sweet, in the wide kitchen; and the many clusters
about the baskets stopped their tongues and their work,
so that it was in a dead silence that the strangers sat
down in Blush's circle.
Candace blushed, and swept the faces with an angry
glance as; she saw elbows jogging their neighbors, and
caught whispers : "The old maids."  "As true as you
live."  "Well, I wonder what will happen next ? as the
polywog said when his tail dropped off !" and so on, till,
her eyes lighting on Orchis, quiet, calm, she "pushed up
her nose, perched her saucy head a bit more on one side,
and tried not to mind it.
Orchis examined those about her from a still distance
her reserve made for her. No one marking her outward
repose would have dreamed of the agitation and whirl
within. Fo the first time. surrounded by strangers so
strange, the centre of covert and open curiosity, the theme
of whispers and comments which constantly reached her.
Standing fast by the purpose which hadbrought her,
she .kept her self-poise, and -conned the lesson her peers
offered her.
Mr. Plunket being har opposite at the basket, she came
around to him in course of her study, and looked him
over with unconscious coolness, which would have been
rude in anybody else.
le seemed to her quite a remarkable creature. She
gazed at him as island-reared Miranda did at ship-wrecked
Ferdinand; and he bore well her scrutiny.
Precious Plunket was one of those "babes of grace
who climb apace," and like the redired rose which sprang
from the breast of the fair Nancee, and' grew and grew
till it couldn't grow higher, he had 'stretched up above


THE BUSY BEE.1

130

THE BUSY BE.R

father and mother and all the rest of his relations, till he
stood six feet two in his. stockings, with only nineteen
years of his life laid away behind him.
"LPrecious," his mother had. called him at the font, and
he grew more and more :precious as the years rolled on
and no other children jostled him in her affections.
He had a frank face, not especially handsome, but
strong and brave; very straight brown hair, which he
kept constantly touzled and on end by running his fin-
gers through it ; a splendid physique; broad shoulders,
fit for burdens; full chest, able to give voice to his will;
straight, well-made limbs, sufficient, to carry his head
whither his brain sent him; an enduring swimmer, a
bold leaper, a swift runner, a tireless walker. Andone
thing I always noted about this fellow: though he ex-
celled all his companions in such feats of strength and
trials of skill as boys delight to pride themselves upon,
they with one accord yielded him precedence and loved
him.
Mr. Plunket was a farmer, who liked patents and im-
provenents, and raised stock ; whose highest ambition
was to see his son and, heir tread in his footsteps.
"Why," said he, "if. Presh would only take to farming,
I'd bay up all the land that's lying loose around here, for
him."  But unfortunately jhe young person did not like
his father's calling, named it '"drudgery ;" and his mother,
a slender, book-loving woman, aided and abetted her boy
in his desires for an education. So there was a division
Sinthe household, and though Precious rode, the reaper,
and prided himself on being the best rider in the county,
broke the colts, milked the cows and the like, and did all
faithfully, he looked beyond, and steadily kept his pur-
pose to go to college; and he had a fair chance of at

Li

training his end, with his mother to back him, because a
wise, purposeful woman, is pretty sure to get her will in "
the matrimonial alliance. Precious said, there were more
ways to .kill a cat than to ;choke him with butter. He
didn't mean any disrespect to his father either. It was
only a boy's way of: expressing his estimate of the ma-
ternal power.
He studied hard all winter, and such odd times as he
could make ; and there is after all no foundation for ed-
ucation like that laid by a careful, painstaking, intellhgent/
mother, who has been an industrious gleaner. She can
suggest so many little items which are necessary, and are
generally overlooked by teachers. She can read up with
her children so many dry books, which must be read, and
cover with her talks such a large field, little by. little,
grain by grain, till the scholar finds himself at home a-
most everywhere. All countries belong to him. Nature
is unveiled. Art's wonders are familiar, even though
only the wood-cuts have yet come under his eyes. He
knows who wrote, who composed, who painted, who gov-
erned, who.suffered, who conquered through the ages,---or
at least so much of all this, that he can never pause till he
knows more ; and with such a start will go on and on, as
long as his useful brain will work.
Mrs. Plunket and her lad had much book lore already
laid away, which they two enjoyed in common, which was
a dead letter to the bustling, money-getting, busy father,
who would rather have made his son a "great operator,'
than the nicest scholar in the world.
Although rearedin the country, Precious had no bump
kin awkwardness Being the constant companion of a lady
all through his boyhood and youth, the rough men and
rough ways about him would not cling to ha. He nec-

131


THE BUSY BEE

essarily caught graces of manner from her, which mingled
oddly enough, I must own, sometimes with the boy-slang,
without which a boy would be an unnatural andunpleas-
ant animal. But the lady did not quite seeit so, and she
did her prettiest to wipe all such phrases from his speech,
and was accustomed to string his whole assortment to-
gether and present it to his notice, like this: "Jingo
peltus !-Gaully !-Snab I-Bully  boy !-Jericho.  Pre-
cious,,*have you got your lesson?"  But though he felt
the reproof, and laughed at the incongruous epithets in.
her mouth, he would say:
"I acknowledge the corn, mother. I'll brace up and
waggle the slang, sure as winking: Thunder and plun-
der! snooks and snuggers ! I will, so help me John
Rogers !"
Getting thus far, the lady stopped her ears and departed
to her vocations:
;Though Orchis was a stranger and very beautiful, he
was not afraid of her, and dashed at once into talk, look-
ing her in the face, as true boys brought up by true.
women are quite apt to do, and if he was not ready to
play Ferdinand to her Miranda, he certainly liked her.
looks and ways amazingly.
When he told his mother about it afterwards he said:
"She looked,like a picture, sitting so still and lovely, and
her dress was so-well, kind of plain, no puckers in it, you
know, no fuss; and she had a rose right up here" (stick-
ing his fingers among his tangles, which action caused the
dame unconsciously to imagine how a rose would look
hiding in her darling's stubborn crop, and how she, the
little woman, would have to stand on tip-toe to smell its
fragrance, such a tower of manhood was he getting to
be); "it seemed to belong there, as if she was a flower

herself; and Jingo peltus! mother, I wish yon could have
seen her handsome eyes so cool and deep and black,-no,
blue, I am sure, and true they were,-blue and thought=
ful. I like girls that will show you their eyes; especially
when they are like hers, but I never saw such before."
"I like out-spoken, out-looking people too, my boy,
people who have such clean lives, that they have, nothing
to hide; who do not stop to calculate the effect of every
word before it is uttered; who are not afraid to show
their eyes, lest a secret thought should leap out and give
their speech the lie."
Meanwhile the business of the evening was rapidly
progressing, what with patent parers and patent corers,
the bee wasn't half what bees used to be in the old times ;
and by nine o'clock the baskets were all emptied, and the
quarters strung on long strings which they nailed in fes-
toons upon frames, that they might be set in the sun to
dry; and then the young men bustled about, removing
the debris, and the girls swept the floor, and made the
place tidy for their frolic, which was to commence immedi-
ately after supper.
Now," said Blush, "I'll begin to bring up the fellows
and introduce them, as .soon as this mess is got --along
'with."
Augusta Blossom, who had sat at the next basket, was al-
ready on speaking terms with the strangers, and she went
after her brother Pom and presented him, but the shy
youngster only stayed long enough to make a sidewise
bow, and get very red in the face, before he edged back
among his friends; and there Augusta told them with
girlish volubility who the others were.
"-That's May and June Rose, and there's Mr. and Mrs.
Crowfoot and the young Orowfeet. .I hate that 'Tilda

, e,, XE' : ',t {
s
V

133

TH.,+C:/ B \_ IV Y 4 BEY


  THE BiBUSY BE.

Crowfoot, she made fun of Porn once; and do you know'
what I did 1 I scratched her face ! laiways take Pom's
part. When we were little, we went to a Christmas-tree,
and Pornwas as broad as he was long, and the minister
laughed at -him, and I didn't speak to another body that
whole evening, and I gave him all I got from the fish-
pond and the grab-bag; that's my fashion. So I give you
fair warning. I paid it off, too, on her brother Maxwell.
Maxy, flaxy, waxy, I call him: that tow head over there,
that is looking at Miss Orchis with his mouth open.
I wonder he hasn't made a set at her before this time.
Precious Plunket says he has got brass enough to make
a kettle, sass enough to fill it, and gas enough to blow it
up. The bald-headed man, in the corner, is Doctor Car-
son. He is dreadfully learned in skeletons; he makes
them. He has got five or six in his office in a glass case.
They say he once put together a mastodon, or some other
long name, twenty-five high. You give him a bone an
inch long, and he will find you the whole animal which
belongs to it."
"I say Gussey," put in Blush, "~why don't you give him
4 joint out of your little finger, and let him find the man
Ahat belongs to you?"
"hI shouldn't dare, Blush. What if he should tell me" it
was you. I don't want to be miserable before my time."
Gussey finished her speech by thrusting out her little
pointed tongue, and withdrawing it, in about the space of
a flash of. lightning, an action so saucy and so naughty,
that Candace felt drawn toward her at once.
"I like you," said she; "you are so merry!." .
"Merry ! yes "-put in Blush, "but remember the old
song:

410

THE BUAY SEE.
"'It's good to be merry and wise,,
Keep your tongue still in your mouth
And look very sweet out of your eyes.'
"Ah, here comes that limb of a Bugby."
"Oh! a limb of the law--Precious Plunket says he com-
eth up like a flower."
"I don't mean the grown-u Bugby; I mean the little
wretch who is throwing Effle's kittens downstairs. Here,
you young mischief, you mustn't do that ! You hurt the,
cat !"
"Oh no!" replied the innocent, pushing off the last
victim; "Kittie loves for jump."
"C lever boy that is, born to evil as the sparks are to fly
upward," commended Blash. " Now I'll tell you a story
about my cat: she lost her own infants and she brought
up a puppy, and was as kind as could be to it."
"Ah! how many mothers have brought up puppies,
without the necessity of adopting them," said Augusta.
"I wish you would stop that stream of talk, Guss,"'re-
plied Blush pointedly. " I can't get a word in edgewise"
"Yes, dam it Gussey," put in Precious Plunket, pausing,
with a broom in his hand, to have a fling at her.
"For shame, Mr. Plunket! such profanity," answered
Augusta, rolling up her eyes.
" Oh, by no means; only a cursory remark. I'll tell you
a secret," said Blush; "Gussey is such a talker,. that I
am obliged to contradict her, to, make the conversation'
general."
"What is all this, confusion of tongues?" asked Jenny
Bellenger, stopping and putting an arm around Augusta's
waist; ."it sounds like a young Babel. I'm out of sorts.
I've muddied my boots in your dirty path. I wish you
would mend your ways out here."

_      4        .


THE BUSY BEE.

"Stick out your foot; let's see'; perhaps I'll shine them
up for, you-Oh no ! can't ; too much of a job! Well,
you needn't regard me with so snippish a countenance."
"I think the snip is in your remarks, so cutting."
"Well the pish! is written all over you with exclama-
tion points."
9F Bless me, here is one of the small Orowfeet in tears,"
interrupted Augusta. "What's the matter, Sis-poor little
Sis; go let me weep; there's luxury in tears!"
"I've broke the sugar basket that I wanted to give to
Buddie Rose, and now he won't like me."
"Pshaw! Sis, friends bought with gifts are no good.
Virtues and graces are what win the boys. Now stop cry-
ing, and. I'll make you a present of this sugar kiss. I
bought it for Blush Beach, but he don't deserve it. You
shall bestow it upon Buddie."
"Well, Gussie, give it me; I have stopped now!"
"Oh no, Sis, you haven't done crying yet; look at those
two great tears just droppingI!"
" Oh! those are some left over from last time ; I haven't
started any new ones."
They all laughed, and insisted that Sis had faiy earned
her kiss, which Augusta hastened to bestow, adding a real
one, from her fresh lips, at which Precious began'to .snap
his fingers and sing,
"'Akiss ! a kiss ! what is a kiss ?
The ruby lips are thine love ; the kissing of them, mine love ;
Ah, who will kiss those ruby lips when I am gone away?'
"that is a college song," explained he at the end.
" Oh, you are singing it, trying to feel yourself a Fresh.-
ian-I advise you to keep it for college use. I don't
think much of it.-Hush! here comes the minister."

"Yes," said June Rose, " just in time for supper ; trust
him for that. I hope his duties will call him home early.
We can't have any good time while he stays ; he is a reg-
ular kill-joy, with his long face. What do you suppose
he said to me once, when he came'to our house and heard
me singing?$ He patted me on my head and croaked out,
'What a pity it would be if that voice should have to
wail in hell!' There's a cheerful sentiment for a morn-
ing call, I think."
" Oh if we could only have our dear Mr. Goodlove
back again. We never felt afraid of doing wrong when
he was here, because he trusted us and helped us out.
For my part, I always feel as if I was doomed, every
time Dr. llardbake looks at me."
The five hostesses made haste to welcome the holy
person; they felt a sort of catholic reverence for any
man in the priestly office upon the ground, that if he wasn't
a good liver, he ought to be; and must not be spoken ill of
while he ministered in sacred things; and they were con-
scientiously careful of depreciating him in any way. Dr.
Hardbake, being a strong Calvinist, which is called "old
school," had especially their confidence and sympathy,
on account of his way of grinding out and pounding
in the' repellant dogmas of his creed, which, I suppose,
they accepted for the same reason that a Romanist wears
sackcloth: the more repulsive, the greater merit in'the
recipient: S.o they' sat willingly each Sunday under his
"you can do it ; you'll be damned, if you don't," and
"you can't stir a peg, everything being foreordained and.
predestinated from the foundation of the world; " and
they grew in grace on the "diet of worms," which ate
up and digested poor John ages ago, while less stable

138

TH  lJ US Y BA7B,

187-


  THE 7BTY BEE.

souls went groping up and down, trying to pick out and
sift something saving from the dead dust.
Having been ceremoniously conducted to the head of.
the table, which had been quickly spread after the work
was done, the divine ran his eyes down the loaded'
board in pleased contemplation of the doughnuts, jum..
bles, wonders, miracles, biscuits, jams, preserves, tongues,
turkeys, jellied chickens, and the like, which -always
make the staple of a true country supper ; and he snuffed
the aroma of the coffee, and felt decidedly glad that he
had come, and lost no time in saying the requisite "grace,"
which blessing from such lips is as efficacious as a cross
of holy water from a reverend father's consecration.
Dr. Hardbake was as fond of sweets as a bear, and was
accustomed to devour them in solitude, and would growl
at an interruption in a perfectly bruinish manner. His
wife always left a great spoon beside her sweetmeat jars,
that he might retire down cellar and sip at his leisure.
Very likely he said his prayers down there also; he often'
tarried.long enough, to lift one of his petitions which on
Sunday took in the whole Christian scheme having all
his dogmas laid and. lapped on ; besides much gratui-
tous information to the Deity, showing how learned Dr.
Hardbake was in the theology of his sect, which seemed
to make the after-sermon almost stipplementary.
"Come! take my jug-handle, and let's go and get some
hash," proposed Pom Blossom to Orchis, who fixed on
him puzzled eyes, desiring to be polite, but utterly
abroad as to his meaning.
".ie offers his flipper," exclaimed Precious, laughing.
"This," crooking his elbow. "Much obliged, Pom, but
you. see Miss Dunwreath is engaged. Now just put your
hand on my arm, and we will go to the table and I'll try

to get you something nice. You don't understand boy-
talk much, do you?"
"No, nor boys. I feel quite. strange. I never was in
a gathering like this before in my life, and we live so
apart, that we might as well be out of the world entirely."
Oh, no, indeed! don't say that, you look as if you
could take a good place; and I know you will. Now
may I give you a cup of coffee?"
"No, thank you, I never drank a cup of coffee. .1 am
afraid I should not like it."
"Well some of thel4ongue, then, and a biscuit."
"No, I am not hungry; I have eaten my supper."
""You must take .one just for sociability, Orchis," said
Blush, who came along with a heaping plate as white and
light as feathers. "Bread, is the staff of life."
"'But man cannot live on bread alone," said Jane Rose.
"Oh take care, Presh; that's my best corn!" ex-
claimed Blush.
"Never mind," put in Augusta, "pain nourishes the
men; it says so in my French reader."
" I wish Precious would follow Bible teaching, and go
down to Egypt after corns hereafter."
"A. Bunyan's pilgrim," suggested Precious.
"Hush ! " said Augusta to Candace, who had been
thoroughly enjoying all these quips and gibes and the
bright ways of the young America -about her. "Hush!
listen to oli Miss Petingill. What she is telling young
Mr. Bugby? He's from the city."
It was indeed our staunch old friend, who had become
an inhabitant of Cherry Brook ; living with a cousin,
Widow Parish, who had abandoned her boarding-house
after the death of her brother, John Knox, and came to
this quiet place to settle, and so offered Alvira a home:

I

4

138

THE BUSY   BEE

189


K- r

140               THE BUSY BCE.
Yes, you see the dentist didn't charge me anything
for pulling out my teeth, so I couldn't screech nor make
a mite of noise ; it wouldn't seem grateful, when he was
doing the job for nothing. Peculiar, ain't it?
"Very, ma'am," lied the young man.    "I think
I see a friend over there; I'll speak to him. Excuse
me, ma'am."    ,.     .
As the speaker edged away, the spinster addressed her-
self to the minister, who was busy with a plate full of
goodips.
ell1" said she, "Doctor, how do you get along suit-
;ing the people here?".
"Suiting, ma'am! " replied the divine, gulping the
last of a doughnut. "I didn't come here to suit !"
"Pray, what did you come for? . You'll have a mighty
poor time if you don't suit, I can tell you."
"I came to preach to them, to instruct them, to save
souls !"
" Oh, you did!. Well, there's thirty old maids in the
parish, and if you can preach, instruct, and save all of 'em,
you are a good deal spryer man, than you look to be.
Maybe you will, when needle has eyes on the pints; not
afore."
"4Do you calculate to try to save the whole parish,
Doctor, or only the elect? "tasked Mr. Blossom.
" I wish my ma had me at home ; I don't, feel pretty
well," said Precious Plunket. "There's going to be a
row."
"I fully explained the means of grace in last Sunday's
sermon," said the Doctor severely. He had no intention
of disturbing his enjoyment -by polemical discourse.
"That's so, Doctor," replied Mr. Blossom laughing,
"and in the' long prayer beforehand too. .There's a time

THE BUSY BEE.

141

for everything, and this is the time to eat and drink and
be merry, isn't it? Take another cup of coffee. Let me
pass your dish."
" He has had four already," said Augusta. "But if he
will only fill up and go home, I shall be glad."
By this time Miss Petingill .had edged round to Mrs.
Crowfoot, who was eating her supper comfortably in a
corner. "Poor old Shindy died last night," said she.
"They had a post-morbid examination, and his heart was
all gone; you could shake it just like a han-ker-chef.
His; legs swelled up and busted, and hadn't no feeling
at all into 'em. I went over afore I come. I told Wit-
helmina I wouldn't have it to say, I hadn't never been be-
fore he' died. Folks ought to be neighborly, and kinder
keep the run of things."
"How dreadful to tell me such a thing at supper,"
said the niek Miss Crowfoot, aside. "I really cannot
relish my turkey any more."
"Law me ! do listen to that Rose over there! " re-
marked Miss Petingill, who was "kinder" keeping the run
of things in that gentleman's direction. "What a brag-
ging critter he is!  Three brothers come over in the
"May Flower." Land sakes! if all the three brothers had
come over in that ship, that claims to, there wouldn't have
been no room- for Miles Standish's dinner-pot.  Them
Roses come with axes on their shoulders anyhow, and
they had to use 'em too, on any job they could get. Poor
as Job's turkey, all on 'em;. I know his folks."
Mr. Rose heard the spinster's unpleasant speech, and
turned quite red. "It makes little difference, who or
what our grandfathers were, so we do our parts well.
One of the descendants of the three Roses did good ser-
vide in the revolutionary war, and was a chosen friend of

ra     1               r      +I!   '
Y             - _       f
r          -         i
-s    1f
1
rh
1r        ,
l                        F.
t
-                              v


THE BUSY BEE.
Wshington, and the others lived and died good citizens
and Christians."                       g
"Land sakes! you needn't spunk up so; I hain't said
nothing agin 'em. 'Taint no matter if your gran-ma was
married out of Judge Bloom's kitchen. And there's
your brother Sam. I remember as if'it was-yesterday,
the day he was twenty-one ; how one of the girls looked
out of the winder and said: 'There goes Sam Rose
with his freedom suit on.' Dreadful rich now ; owns a
bank, and rides in his kirridge. Let's see; he married
Jane Mosely; she worked in the same bindery along of
him, didn't she?"
"I feel as if I had better be getting home," said Mr.
Harebell.  "I am -afraid my turn may come next.
There was an ancestor of ours hung in colony times for
stealing kegs of small beer. I wonder if she knows it;
there she is looking at me."
"Courage, my friend ; see e'en the slight Harebell
raise his head, elastic from her airy tread."
Slight ! two hundred if I am a pound. But I must
go; my wife always scolds me when I am out late."
"When I think my wife is going to scold, I always go
=in tearing mad myself, and that scares her out of it.
Don't it, Patience, my dear ? "
"For shame, Amaranth," replied the comely wife, all
unrufflied. "Such nonsense you men do talk, to be sure !"
You know it's as true as preaching, truer than some
of Hardbake's," winking over at the divine, who was just
out of ear-shot. "Don't look so cross at me, Miss Mar-
gery; what have I done? I don't care so much about
the men. I can fight my way among my peers, but when
a woman knits her brows at me, I feel like knocking my
head against a stone wall."

THE BUSY BEE.1
"Not so bad 4s that, Mr. Blossom. I confess, I a"
little grieved to hear you speak so slightingly of those
set over us in holy things.  You remember what St.
Paul says, 'Speak not evil of dignities.'"
"That's where St. Paul and I differ, Miss Margery, as
the old Scotch wife told her parson, when he reminded
her that the apostle had forbidden women to talk in meet-
ing. Here, Rugby," he added, catching that person by
the arm, and giving him a little shake ; "what are you
doing free gymnastics to such an extent in this cheerful
group for?"
"Was I" replied Mr. Rugby, looking sheepish.
"The fact is, I have just come from court, where I paid
twenty dollars for knocking a fellow down, and I was
thinking I'd willingly give twenty more to get another
clip at him."
" There's depravity for you, Miss Margery !" exclaimed
Mr. Blossom, laughing. "Who was it, Rugby ? "
"Payson, of Sandy Creek; a disagreeable,'captious
chap."
"Oh, I know him; went to school with him in the old
Brick. He tried to carry home Patience's dinner-basket
one day. I knocked him down for nothing. His mother
was a milliner ; they said the wind used to blow off the
crowns of her bonnets; and the boys used to square up to
him and call out, ' Who says bandbox,' when they wanted
to plague him. Yes, Miss Margery, boys as a rule are
dreadful hectors. I never got plagued much, though."
Meanwhile Blush had edged in aniongst them, in pur-
suit of goodies for Candace, whom he was politely attend-
"What else will you have-? " asked he; "do you like
c-pple-sass?"-

~"

Il
.

-.
r - .
Y
,j
..
it
_    - ,.i   c
t'_
t
. -  ~,,    ,


(1

144

THE BUSY BEE.

".Oh yes ! very much indeed-"
"I wish I was apple-sass," was his drawling answer.
" I was going to say I wouldn't take any, if you had
let me finish; I've had sauce enough for this evening."
"You don't get much ahead of her, do you IBlush?"
said Mr. Blossom, looking pleasantly at the sisters; "she'll
go you one better every time. I wonder if I am too -old
to be introduced to those pretty girls?$ "
"No indeed, papa," replied Augusta; "you'll never be
too old for anything nice. This is Candaee Dunwreath,
and this is Orchis, and they are both my friends; so
make a nice bow, papa, and say you'll be good to their.
My papa's goodness is something awful nice."
"Oh ho!" was all the answer the jolly farmer made,
as he looked curiously at the strangers.
"Now I know what you are thinking, only you are too
good-natured to say it out loud as the rest have done!"
spoke up Candace blushing red, but with a defiant toss
of her curly head.
"What is it, chick?"
"You are thinking, ' Oh ho! some of the old maids." '
"Not precisely, my dear. I was wondering why peo-
ple should fix the old upon such youthful beauties as
you are."
"There! Candace; didn't I tell you my papa was nice.
She is coming to our house; I have got her to promise;
and Orchis will say yes too before we go home."
"That's right, Gussie; I'd rather have blooming girls
than roses. We'll make good times for them, won't we
mother ? When shall it be, Miss Orchis ?"
I do not know at present," answered Orchis thought-
fully. "I should be glad to have it soon; we must make
a beginning."'

TE BUSY BEE.

145

"Yes, yes, my dear, it is high time we were on better
terms. Gus is a good honest girl; you will like Gus;
and there's our Porn; he is not a lad to be despised."
"I do not despise anybody," replied Orchis plainly,
while Candace interposed a laughing reply, and pulled
her sister away.
Mr. Blossom talked all the way home of Gussy's new
friends, and his wife -was not a mite jealous! What do
you think of that? ye husbands, who dare not speak of a
female acquaintance in your lilpmate's hearing!
After the; supper was cleared away, and the minister
gone, and some of the elder people, Precious, who had
been hard at work, came back to Orchis, who stood apart
in a sort of maze. She had scarcely spoken a dozen
words, but she felt as if she had so much to remember
and think about, that-her head was dizzy The  boy-talk,
and fun, the pleasant mingling of old and young, the
neighborly jokes, and understanding of each other, th
discussing of family matters, comparing notes, the evi-
dent good fellowship, hearty mirth, the merry chattering
of the young people, was more than she could compre-
hend.
There was Precious during the bee, snapping seeds all
over the room, and getting'sharp words for his pains,
balancing cores on his knife-blade, and jerking them into
other baskets; Augusta accosting everybody that came in
her way ; May and June Rose talking and laughing ;
Saucy Blush getting his hair pulled for his impudence,
and the blooming Miss Effie gliding about among the guests,
smiling, pleasant, making her friends comfortable, and
while Candace seemed to slip into a good place in the
very midst of it all, Orciis. felt shy, restrained, silent,
and when the games began, she retired to a corner, desir-


146              M IIE BUSY BEJ.
ing to get out of the way of' the noisy frolic ; and that
was where Precious sought her out, and asked her to put
seeds on her eyelids for naming.
She closed her eyes at once as soon as she comprehended
what he desired, and did as she was told. After the
three regulation winks, she opened them wide and fixed
them inquiringly upon him.
"Many a thought she thunk, many a wink she wunk,"
said Blush as he darted by.
"I do not understand," said Orchis; "what does he
mean ? "
"Nothing but nonsense, Miss Dunwreath. Now you
must tell me who you named the right eye ; the seed
dropped first from that one ; and if it is the same name
I gave it, then he is to be your sweetheart."
The word kindled a little flush on her cheeks; that was
what Blush Beach desired to be to Candace. "I thought
your name," she replied simply.
"Did you?" said Precious, blushing at. the straight-
forward directness of her truthful confession; "I wish I
had too; but I don't know as I should have dared. You
see, we fellows don't like to seem to feel too big of our-
selves. I thank you though, ever so much."
"You need not ; I doh't know anybody else except
Candace's friend, and if I did, it would not make any
difference."
"You have a. way of your own of speaking your mind,
haven't you? ":said Pi-ecious, more flattered than he liked
to show; " I admire it."
"Do you? I am glad! I suppose I do not talk like
other folks; but you must remember that Inever see any-
body except my sisters; and we all speak the truth."
"Of course ; so do I. Come now, let's-'try paring for

THE BUSY BEE.          g147

tune. You must peel a whole apple, without breaking
the coil, and then throw it over your shoulder, and see
what letter it will make. I am going for a D, and I hope,
yours will be a P."
aD! If you should get that, would it mean me?$ "
askzedOrchis, looking in his face with her clear eyes.
"Certainly, Miss Orchis; that is the idea."
" And then will I be your sweetheart"
"That is the game," replied Precious much embar-
rassed, "but I don't suppose it always turns out that way!"
"Here they are," called out Blush coming up with
Candace on his arm; "have you tried it?"
"Not yet," replied Precious; "I have been explaining
the trick to Miss Orchis."
" Wait till you see ours. Bravo! there it is! as good a
D as a sign painter could make. Now Candace, send.
yours, and be sure you get a plain B."
"Look !" exclaimed Candace triumphantly; "is not
that perfect."
"We are all right; I shall have to do that bit of carv-
ing .I see."
"Will you try now, Miss Orchis?" asked Precious of
the girl who stood silent, looking at eachin turn, as she
held the red apple in her hand.
"I had rather not," she answered; "it seems to -me
not pleasant ; I might fail again ; it is like tempting
fortune."
She looked so serious, so wholly unconscious of the
value of her words, that Precious did not know what to
say, and he was spared the trouble of saying anything by
Augusta, who exclaimed:
"Pooh! they're bound to be B's or S's; I've tried a
thousand times, and they all look exactly alike."

'i

.'


THE BUSY .BER.            149

148           THE BUSY BEE.

" That'% a mistake, Gus, as you see there," pointing to
the ruby ribbon, which Precious had dropped over his
shoulder, while .she, spoke. "If that is not a D, I never
saw one in the spelling-book."
" That's so," said Candace.; "and as there is'a whole
family of us, he can take his choice."
" You are ruled out, if you please, Miss Candace," said
Blush. "No flirting; I shan't allow it."
Precious had merry words enough in general, and was
quite apt to make sufficient of himself, but he could not
open his lips to trifle, with Orchis looking at him, and he
stooped and picked up his fate-letter, and tore it absently
into shreds.
"I must go," said Augusta. "I can't have that billing
and cooing between June and my Porn; those Roses are
not to my liking."
"Who is building and cooking?2." inquired Effie.
"This man coining in at the door; he lays up walls for
a few which keep out the many, and lie preaches a cook-
ing that is going to last forever. No wonder he looks
as if he got drunk every night, and repented every morn-
ing
"Blush, I am ashamed of you; how very wicked
That is the new Baptist minister; a hard-working, earnest
man; of course it is a great pity he is close-communion"
"He is looking for a wife, Miss Effie," said Augusta;
" there he goes straight up, to Margery."
"And much good may it do him," muttered Effie,
watching him. "Margery isn't the sort of woman to live
in a. chest with the lid down; Balquither is no place for
haim."
"Oh dear," sighed Augusta, "why don't somebody
conie after mel I know it will be my fate to go out

West and be a missionary, and teach prairie dogs to stand
on their hind-legs."
" How would that suit you, Miss Orchis ?" asked Eflie
smiling at the. silent girl who listened while the others
talked. "You are not so lively as your sister."
Orchis looked across at Candace, who had by this
time got into the midst of "button, button, who's got
the button," bright, sunny, talkative, and as pretty as a
peach.
"I like to see Candace happy," said she, softly finger-
ing the apple she still held. "I think my sister is as
handsome as any girl here."
" She is indeed, and as winsome as she is handsome;
you are very fond of her, are you not?$"
" Oh yes: she is mine, I am hers; she is beauty, I am
beast.'
"Will it always be the same, do you think?"
"What do you mean, Miss Effie? Why should it be
changed?." asked Orchis uneasily.
"Oh, she might marry after a while, you know, and
then she would be all her husband's, and you only
second-best ; that is my experience. Ihad a friend once,
all mine, but as soon as she was a wife, she was so
changed, so indifferent, and my love of so little conse-
quece, tl at I had to give her up."
irchis looked again ; Precious Plunket was standing
close to Candace now; she and Effie were left together ;
he was laughing, she was talking, her face arch and
vivacious, and it seemed that his whole attention was
given to her, and Blush was also offering her the magic
button.
"I suppose it will he so, and I shall be left outside;
there's nae room for twa."

.11

I-


TJHi BUSY BEE.

Don't begin to look so miserable beforehand," said
Effie, laughing. "That is a nice old song,-our mother'
used to sing it,-and true of, wedded love; but outside
that there is large room for a 'great sisterhood; who are
the' real workers of this world, despised and ridiculed
as they may be. It is the aunties who are the stand-bys.
We are a family of single women here at Balquither, and
we find enough to do; we are free and independent. I
must have a good talk with you, dear Orchis."
"And will you go through your life alone?"
"Not alone, Orchis; no husband, but hosts of friends,
hosts of interests."
"But these families I have seen to-night seem so
bappy,-the fathers, and mothers, and the children, the
Blossoms and the Roses. I never thought about it
before; now I know a round circle full of joys is better
than a still line untrodden by any feet but mine. Sister
Polly talked just as you do to Candace. I think it would
be easier to tarry behind our. fences, as we have done,
than to come out into a world where people get paired, if
I do not find my .mate."
"Why, Oruhis dear.! such a sweet, good girl as you are
is likely tojind enough if you choose to take."
"You are a handsome girl and you have not found,"
answered Orchis plainly.
"I don't desire to find; I like my life as it is," said
Effie' smiling. "I must show you my flowers and my
birds, and how I fill up my time."
"Flowers and birds are not human interests," answered
Orchis, shaking her head. " They are not enough."
"You are not cut out for an old maid, I perceive,"
laughed Effie; and at that- minute the young Baptist'

t60

P' 4
i
4
i'
t
C
}j
k

*

TE' BUSY BEE.               151
minister came up and began to-talk, while Orchis stood
silent,.,whirling the crimson apple about in her fingers.
After he was gone, Effie looked at her and found her
smiling. "Why are you so pleased? " she asked.
"I think you are not cut out for an old maid either,
Miss Effie. That man looked sweet at you, and you
looked just as sweet at him; -he pleases you more than
birds or flowers."
"Pooh child! I have to be polite in my own house,"
.answered Effie, but she blushed as red as a rose as she hur-
ried away.
Orchis was still thinking about her, when Precious came
and asked her to play stage-coach.
"I don't think I could; it is so bewildering, all the noise
and the bustle; and it seems to me as if nobody here said
their true thoughts. They all hide something. Even you
are afraid to tell just your feelings."
"What makes you think so, Miss Orchis? I call'myself
a remarkably honest fellow. I see you have the apple
yet; it is not the apple of discord, that you cherish so
carefully."
'"What is that.?"
"Did you never hear the story?"
"Never ! I have heard nothing ; I know nothing."
"You know enough to say plenty of sharp things, I
observe. Come, if you choose, we will sit down in this
corner and I'll tell you about the awful red streak which
made lots of trouble."
"I think I had rather hear about your hone, and
your mother, and what you like best to do; I want to learn
,people."
"Agreed ; I have no objection in the world to glorify
myself, but you must believe every word I say. We live


152

TIl  iUSY BEE.

like all farmers,y I suppose; we raise our own wheat,'our
corn, and our meat; we shear our own fleece and wear it;
at-least, we sell it,/which amounts to the same."
"We do that at home; that is not what I want to hear.
Tell me how you live with your' father and mother, how
you fill your days. I feel that you are different from us;
how is it?"
"You certainly are very charming, Miss Orchis ; and
forgive me if I say you are not like any girl I ever met
before."
I suppose so," answered Orchis rather sorrowfully.
You are nicer, much nicer ; you are so plain-spoken,
so true."
"'Oh, yes, we are all true.. I am glad that is not a
fault in the world. Every one here this evening has
looked so queer at me, I did feel myself strange, but if
you think me nice, I am comfortable. Now your mother,
how does she look, what does she say to you?"
"My mother says a great deal, Miss Orchis; she is a
real mother. I should like to have you see her; she
knows just how and when to help a fellow. Now,-what
I like best to do, I can answer that in a jiffy: I am
fonder of study and reading than anything else, but I don't
get much time; my father is great for buying land, and
land must be worked, you know. 1 mean to teach school
this winter; mother and I agree that it will be good for me."
You teach school?"
"Yes, why not?  Don't you think I know enough?"
"'Anybody could teach me," replied Orchis sighing.
I h iven't. seen the inside of a school-room since I was
eleven years,old, or looked in a book scarcely. How nice
it would be if I could go to school; then perhaps I could
teach, and that would be an outlet."

THE; BUSY BEE.

e    -  r
153

r
}F
b
+
f
t

" For your patience, yes. Come to me, Miss Orchis.
I'll make you study like the blazes. I'm going to ferrule
all the girls who don't get their lessons."
" What is that? 'ferrule,' I never heard of it?"
" Hold out your hand, and I'll show you."
Orchis presented her little palm, looking in the young
man's face inquiringly. He took it in his great brown
fingers, made a horrible grimace, lifted his right arm as
for a frightful blow, and laid his hand softly upon the one
he held, with a half shy laugh.
" I couldn't have the heart to hurt such a girl as you
are," said he. "Your eyes which trust me make -it impos-
sible; no, I shall have to set you over amongst the boys
when you are idle; I will take care to pick out small
ones.
Orchis locked the released digits in close clasp of their
fellows, and-fell off into musing. "What if I have really
found the key to the new life which I need," thought
she, and her sober face made Precious afraid she was of-
fended, and he said, rather hesitatingly:
"Don't get angry, Miss Orchis ; I meant only non-
sense."
"Angry with you! oh no, I was wondering if I could
really go to your school; I shall certainly try to make it
out." She finished with a set face as firm as Clytie's own:
"and Candace shall come also. I don't know how I shall
accomplish it, but I shall."
"I suppose the rest will laugh at us," she went on
thinking aloud.  "I have heard some of these people
talking of my clothes this evening and making unkind
remarks;: but that- does not matter; we live as we must.
It is true, I am quite differently dressed from these other'
girls; I see it. I didn't know how different till this even-


154               THE BUsY BEE-
ing!" she glanced at Candace in her blue crape as she
spoke. " I don't think I mind. Pet will; she'll cry about
it."
"There is not a nicer looking lady in the room than
you are," said Precious, warmly.  "I wish everybody
would leave off their fussiness. My mother never wears
any, and she always looks like a, brick; I mean she looks
good."
"I thank you; I like plain clothes myself, I believe,
although I do not wear them from choice, but because I
have no others. That won't hinder our being laughed at
by your scholars."
"Just 'let me catch them at it ! No, Miss Orchis, I.
mean to give such a tone to my school, that dress won't
count; standing is what is going to tell. I have talked it
over with my mother and thought a great deal about it,
and I have a fixed idea of what a study-place ought to
be, and I intend to carry it out. Mother thinks I can, and
I know it."
"Your mother is' also your friend, I see," said Orchis,
with the clear penetration of the young man's character,
which is intuitive in women, who know a great many
things by instinct without learning them. " You honor and
love her entirely."
"I do so," answered Precious, blushing: not from
false shame, but a strange pleasure in being understood,
in the sympathy she showed, and- the interest she made
no effort to conceal; and he felt that to be a friend to
Orchis Dunwreath, it would be essential to be sincere and
candid enough to dwell in the palace of truth.
Old Miss Petingill ambled up and interrupted their
conversation. She had prevailed upon her cousin Parish
to stay, saying: "There ain't nothing I do enjoy so much

TIE BUSY BEE.             155

as the chin-music of these boys and! girls; it kinder
makes me feel young again,; I vum if it don't."
"lumph! Almira. If you get to feelin' young,. it
must be because you are gettin' on to your second chil-
hood."
"We'll rin about the burn and paddle in the brays
together, Wilhelmina; that is a great comfort."
When these two set out for a "sparring match," it was
difficult to say which would get the best of it. Miss
Petingill carried her point this evening, remained
through the games, and said anything she happened to
think of, regardless who it hit, as usual. She got some wry
faces and cold shoulders from the groups intent on their
own pleasure. Youth is generally intolerant of age, not
always.
"I'm glad to get a chance to see you, I declare," said
she to Orchis. "I've heard tell so much about your
goings on, cuttin' round anyhow, doin' man's work; 'old
maids' they call you. They might say maiden ladies if
'they was a mind to be civil, when they spoke of single
women.   I thought there was enough on 'em where I
come from, but I own it beats all how they do swarm
round here; meaner'n pusley, too, some on 'em. Why
they say the new Baptist ministersthought he'd got a new
kind of a female band to make the music, when he ght
up into his pulpit and see a whole row of deaf ones in the
front slips right under his nose, with their ear-trumpets.
le had to laff when they lifted 'em, and he thought they
was all goin' to blow to once, and they whipped them
into their ears instead. Green. as a squash, ain't he
Effie? I expect he never see much afore he came Here. I
wonder sometimes what's become of all the men;1 I
should think the first-born had all been smut, as they was

i


155 iGlTB'BUSY BEE
in Egypt, or no, was it ilerod, who slewed, all Rachel's
children?"
"Both, I believe, ma'am," answered Blush politely, who
had just come up with Candace on his arm, all heated
and rosy with her lively game of blind-man.
"Law ! ain't you the chap I seen ridin' down the road
on a centipede ?"exclaimed Miss Petingill, tilting up her
glasses with her thumb and finger to bring their focus
on him.
"Velocipede, Almiry," suggested Cousin Parish tartly ;
"don't make a laughing stock of yourself, I beg."
If I didn't know you was a widder, I should take you
for an old maid, Wilhelminy, you are so pesky snap-
pish.- I s'pose that is Jerusha Perkins' man she's hanging
onto. Well! if she ain't sprigged up to fits ! but law! she
left the ranks too late to take any good looks with her;
she ought to jumped the fence sooner. What a sunday-
best look all her things has got. They do say a man never
feels as if he owned his wife, till he's bought. her a new
gown."
"You ought to have made some good man happy, Miss
Petingill," said Blush with a smile.
"Think so, bub? well I thought I should, when I was
as young as you; every girl does, they all look forward
to it. I had a beau, but he went out amongst the Inj ins,
and the, cannibals et him up, so that was the end on't.
Pve done tailorin' ever since, and I always expect to, till
I get t'other side ; then I mean to take a good spell the
first thing I do. -No harp nor nothing else till I've had
time to fold'my hands and set still a while."
"That's what the old slave said," remarked Blush,
" when his master asked him what he meant to busy him-
self with when he got to heaven. 'I'll jes res massa,'

THE BUSY BEE.

said he. Good old nigger! what lots of fun I had with
him."
"Air you two twins?" inquired Miss Petingill; who
had been studying Orchis and Candace.
"No," replied Candace, "Vashti and Griselda are
twins."
"Oh, they are sisters, I s'pose, an't they ? look much
alike?
"Not very much, I believe; I really never thought
about it."
So kinder used to seeing 'em round, you don't notice,
I dessay."
Before the evening was over, all five of the Balquither
ladies had taken occasion to converse separately with Or-
chis. She had seen the patchwork, looked at the birds and
flowers, and gotten a wee blossom to remember the eve-
ning by.
Miss Margery had spoken again about coming to church,
offering her a place in their wagon, and finished by a
kiss and a whisper, as she held the girl's hand 'in both
hers.
" I feel that you need help, dear, and if you will take
my advice, you will carry your needs to the minister.
He is set over us to aid and comfort, and you ought to
seek him at once."
Miss Margery was in earnest ; she felt that such was
the proper course to take, and would have taken it herself,
if a necessity had arisen, to which she did not find her
own resources equal.
Just before breaking up, Orchis had a puzzle offered
her, when Precious came and asked politely, if he might
see her home. She was thinking it over, not knowing
what answer to make, when Candace rushed at her, and


TE' BUSY' BEE.

Th8             THE BUSY BEE.

pretending to arrange the buds in her hair, whispered
hurriedly in her ear:              .,           a
"hSay 'yes, thank you,' do, and be quick or you will of-
fend him."
"Candace, Pet," answered Orchis aloud, and holding
her sister off to look in her face, "how can he see me
home, when our house is behind that tall fence, and you
know Clytie will not let him inside the gate, and we shall
have to climb over ourselves."
"Never mind, Blush is coming with me ; he said Pre-
cious :would speak to you. He will make it all smooth.
Say 'yes,' please."
I'Yes, please," said Orchis obediently.
"And we are much obliged," added Candace, courte-
sying.
"So are we" added Blush, laughingly imitating her
with his short coat-tails.
"Yes, of course," said Precious, who had been getting
red and proud during the hesitation and colloquy of the
sisters ; " I was beginning to feel quite uneasy for fear I
should be ruled out."'
"UYou need not," replied Orchis very plainly. "1 was
waiting till Candace should tell me what to say. No one
ever asked me the question before in my life, you must
remember."
" I shall not forget that I am the first, Miss Orchis; I
like it very much. Now take my arm, please."
"Is that right ? I do not need any help;,I am able to
walk by myself."
"Everybody does it, Miss Orchis; see Candace and
e        d Augusta is leaning on Tip Crowfoot. They
-    o in pairs, so just give me your little hand, and I will
put it right here on my sleeve; there, that's right."

Orchis was a good walker, and Precious enjoyed that
half mile in the moonlight wonderfully. The pressure
of the fingers was so light that he had to look down, once
in awhile, to make certain they were there, and the con-
sciousness' that they had never rested on any other sleeve,
was agreeable also. Still the two youngsters and Candace
did the laughing and chatting, and Orchis felt dimly two
or three times, that Precious was directing most of his
remarks to her sister, and it troubled her, and she did not
know how to help it either, because they all had so much
to say, that anything from her would have been unneces-
sary ; she grew serene again, however, when her escort
turned smilingly to her, after they had arrived and were
standing by the fence for a few last words.
" Now, Miss Orchis, don't forget; I shall look for you
the first day of school. I count on you. I think we may
have such good times studying ; and you must let me
manage to bring my mother to speech of you, she is such
strong help in hard places."
" Here we are !" remarked Blush, "at the foot of the
ladder by which angels ascend and descend. You see,
these ladies live here alone, and they keep the gate locked
for fear of robbers, and I advised the girls to get over
the fence and save worry."
"That is not quite true," said Orchis; "we would not
have been permitted to go out of the gate, and did not
ask permission; we went privately, because we thought
it right that we should disregard rules."
"I am so glad you did, Miss Orchis; I never enjoyed a
bee so much in my life, all because you two were there."
" I echo the sentiment of the gentleman who spoke last;
in the words of the poet I would add, ' wild roved the In-
dian girl.'"

0

4


1-0 6T0                BUSY BEE.
Who     as she? what did she rove for?" asked Orchis,
thinking there must be something in her history which
would throw light on their peculiar circumstances.
"tYou have me there,"- answered Blush, laughing ; "I
see a fellow must not soar too far into 'the realms of
fancy, when he talks with you."
Orchis was silent, feeling afresh that the boys and
girls outside said and did many things she could not com-
prebend.
"Lam awful glad we went," said Candace. "If all our
adventures will be as pleasant as this has been, I hope par-
ing-bees will be as plenty as butterflys in August. Here
goes the first angel; queer kind of a Paradise to drop into
though. .Good-night, Blush. Good-night, Mr. Plunket."
The fence was successfully scaled, and the two girls
stood safely, alone in their enclosure, listening to the
footsteps of their departing friends.
"Now if we can only get in," whispered Candace.
"Oh dear, there's Ajax !"
Still as they were, the rustle and voices had attracted
the dog, who was promoted to the watching, vice Toss dis-
abled; and he came bounding and leaping, and seized
Candace by the skirt which he shook with all his might
and main.
"Down, good Ajax! dear Ajax don't you know me? You
will waken everybody with your horrid noise! awful dog,
do pray be quiet! Oh, if you only knew the mischief you
are doing, you would be still! "
But so intent was, the guardian of the night upon the
discharge of his' duty, that it took a minute or so, to make
him understand, that his young mistresses were out on a
lark ; and when he did get -it into his head, he only inten-
sified the occasion, barking, and talking on .vociferously.,

THE BUSY BEE.

5
x
.
ti

" Hateful things!" said Candace half crying, "now
look, what trouble you have got us into There's Clytie
with a candle, and we're lucky if she don't shoot us be-
fore we can put foot inside the house. I told you so ! she
has set down the light, and up goes her pistol. Don't
fire, Clytie ; it is only Orchis and me !"
"What may this mean?"   Clytie waited, till they were
close to her, before she said a word, and then she stood
still, looking pitilessly at them, while the yellow rays of
the candle she had not lifted shone over her, making her
an eerie figure.
"Nothing much," it was Candace who spoke; "'only
we have been to the paring-bee."
" It should be a rare pleasure to take you out with such
bold disobedience, when there must be a beating at the
finish. Get me the whip!
"cNo, Clytie," replied Orchis, coming forward, "you
shall beat us no more ; we are sisters, not slaves of yours.
I have found out for myself that this is a broad world
full of honest people, who work and play and meet in
,common interests ; and I shall no longer consent to be
shut up on this farm, as if it was a prison."
As she stepped close to Olytie, you might. have seen
how nearly the two -resembled each other. The same
clear-cut features, falling shoulders, well-turned limbs,
only in Orchis there was a hungry craving for love, a de-
sire for hope and faith, which glimmered-in her look of
wistful unrest, contrasting strongly with the still quie-
tude of hard indifference in the woman, where hope was
dead, and love and faith crushed- out. The coloring of
the two was as dissimilar as possible. For Clytie's marble
whiteness, Orchishad the red of the sunny side of a rir6e
peach, and for the dead blackness of smouldering fire i

161

"


THE BTSY BEE.

162

her beautifully shaped eyes, \the younger girl poured
glances from orbs of azure, deep as deepest sapphire, and
her hair was sunnier, warmer, more golden. Admirably
lovely both; very like, and yet absolutely unlike.
"Get me the whip," said Olytie again, in a voice ring-
ing, tuneful, cold as death.
As Candace crept past her to obey, the woman's eyes
fell upon the dress she wore, and, she reached out her
hand, and caught the skirt in her fingers.
".Where did you get this ?" asked she, lifting the candle
that she might scan her nearly ; the blue crape, the snood,
the kerchief, the knot of ribbon, and its crimson buds, she
saw them all. Suddenly the whole woman changed as if
she had seen a spirit. A wave of scarlet surged over her,
burning painfully, swelling her parted lips with vivid
flame, retreating in heavy pulse-beats, dropping into her
heart like gouttes of lead, leaving her still, colorless, as
they were accustomed to see her, and terribly beautiful.
"You have done well to bring me face to face with my
shame," said she, "to force me to live the dead past
aain"
Oh, Clytie! what is it? don't be angry! I'll put
them all back!" cried Candace, springing forward. "You
may beat, me; I wish you. would."
Clytie made no answer, and the child shrank away
front her, as she slowly wheeled-about as regardless of
her and her voice, as if she were alone, and stepped noise-
lessly from them, gliding like a spectre to her chamber,
where they heard the clang of the door, the click of the
lck, and they drew, long breaths of relief.

OHAPTER XVII.

THE GREAT GATE Is UNLOCKED6
RESENTLY two figures in white came sweeping
down the stairs, and Orchis, who was busy with
the candle she had just lighted (Olytie having
left them in outer darkness), and Candace, who was too
much cut up to attend to anything except he+remorse,
heard nothing, till Griselda .caught the elder child in a
fast grip, causing her to shriek with terror.
" What is all this?" exclaimed she, shaking the fright=
ened girl by the arm; " what are you about ?"
Tis indeed, what !". chimed in Vashti; "is chaos re-
turned, that you two young ones are up and dressed at
this goblin hour? Merciful Heaven ! look here, Grisel!".
she added, seizing the candle and sticking it close to
Candace.
Griselda came, took the crape i'f her clutch, gazed, at
the wearer in stolid fright  I feel faint!" exclaim d
she.'                igt;"Ifefan!exlmd
"What ails the dress?" asked Candace, fretfully pull-
ing it away; "it isn't poison, I hope; it hasn't got the.
plague in it, has it? I found it in an old trunk up gar-
ret; I must have something to wear if I am going among
people; I won't be- a guy! nobody takes any care of me.

i


164

THE GREAT }GATE 1S U.NLOCKED.

Augusta Blossom has nice clothes, so has June Rose
and-"
"Is the child going crazy?" asked Vashti, "that she
raves this fashion!"
"No, I am not! I shall be, though, if you act so about a
few trumpery duds!"
"Couldn't you have fetched something else, if you
must pilfer? I wonder Clytie didn't murder you; I do
so."'
"Why'?" whispered Candace, taking hold of Orchis'
hand. "I didn't hurt her things; why should she mur-
derme?"
"I'll tell you why, child: this is the dress the bride
wore the last evening she spent in the company of her
troth-plight, who deserted her! the dress in which she
waited for him, the night of the terrible day when she
learned that the man on whom she had staked her soul
was a coward, a wretch ; the night on which she laid
down her life, put out her love, and became what you
know her, here."
"Oh, I wish somebody had told me," moaned Candace
turning to Orchis, who stood still and white, listening;
Orchis, who holding fast the hand thrust into hers, laid
the other arm on the neck of her pet. "Oh!. I wish I
had minded you; you went in your homespun ; I must be
fine, and look what a horrid mess I have made. Heaven
forgive me ! I'll never go fine any more ; come quickly.
and help me put the nasty things out of my sight."
Still silent, Orchis went at once. They ascended softly
the stairs to the old garret, full of shadows, full of creak-
ing noises, hung with cobwebs, stored with household
gear, full of memories ; and undoing the box, they laid
back the things. Neither spoke a word till they stood

1

THE GREAT GATE IS UNLOCKED.

r/  1              . .+.i
l                _

again below, when Orchis took her sister in her arms and
hugged her. "Now we have indeed made an outlet,"
said she. "Don't cry, pet; it can't be helped. I ought
to have been more firm; I am to blame. Come, forget your
grief. After all, it isn't robbery or murder; so let's, go
to our room and talk a little of what shall come next."
"Not yet," said Griselda, heading themoff ; "tell us
first what has passed. We know nothing. Come, there-
fore, to the keeping-room; Vashti is waiting there on pins
and needles."
Orchis began at the beginning and gave a detailed ac-
count of the rise and progress of Candace's friendship,
her trip to Sister Polly's, and the grand wind-up of the
festival just passed, which she minutely described as she
had seen it. Before she had finished, volatile Candace,
who still kept close to her, had dried her tears, and was
adding comments and explanatory notes to her' sister's
statements, which filled in . charming, mirthful picture.
for the astonished twins, who could scarcely believe their
ears nor their eyes, which saw Orchis, quiet, purposeful,
white, her lovely blue eyes looking straight before her at-
the scenes  she was painting; and Candace, arch, rosy, smil-
ing, sending up her short nose once in a while with a
wipe of her little brown fingers, while her naked, soft
shoulders and arms peeped a little occasionally from the
red woollen table-cover Vashti had thrown over her by
way of shawl, while they talked.
"To think that these nestlings should steal a march
on us," said Griselda, "these young .lambs should
break over the high wall of separation, which we have
never tried to climb, and frisk and, gambol among the
naughty goats outside, while we were digging and delv-
ing. If I were not a woman.and a birdstuffer, familiar


6       THE GREAT GATE IS UNLOCKED.

with wonders of nature, I should be dumb of amazemept.
As it is, I feel full of fire and unrest. I can't sleep
to-night; I cannot thresh beans to-morrow !"
"Nor I sift clover-seed," echoed Vashti; "how many
years since we were eighteen, Grisel '
"A thousand, by my feelings ; and yet you and I are
but twenty-three."
"I see a bold thought in your eyes, my dear double!
y'ou are thinking it possible that we also may break
bonds. Do you suppose we should be glad to creep back
again to shelter, like the prisoner, who was let out after
his forty years of cell-dom? Come, we must gabble like
tinkers ; we must confer we must consult. Good-night,
little wanderers, bold highwaymen who fearlessly scale
walls, who mingle with festive crowds; they look inno-
cent, don't they, Grisel? but they have murdered sleep,
the wicked rogues! Shall we kiss them?_ Yes, I think,
we will; we havn't forgot how to kiss, though we are'
the old maids.'
The night was very far spent when they separated, and
then the couples prolonged their talk apart. Orchis and
Candace had suddenly sprung into importance; they ate
their suppers children: now they were positive actors. in
life's drama, and their feats opened new trains of thoughtU
in the others, or rather gave impetus and method to those
long laid ready for springing.
Goody Ruddock was the only one who slept through,
knowing nothing, feeling nothing of the earthquake
which had shaken the place, and consequently she rose
at four o'clock as usual, and drove her team afield.
The days which followed were chaos. Tongues which
had been comparatively silent for so long, or at least'
taboed from all but few subjects, broke loose' and ranged;

TRlE GREAT GATE IS UNLOCKED.          10
free and far; long stories were told of the past, memories,
of distant scenes raked up and shared amongst the
four, who met on a common ground of wants, which
must be recognized and provided for.
Clytie was not visible. Early in the morning she w1ent-
out with her gun, and when at nightfall she returned,
Goody iRuddock was the only 'one who saw her, and she
ministered to her as the faithful creature often did, with
dumb tenderness, asking and receiving no thanks or
welcome.
The great gate was unlocked ! The twins did it! It
took courage, but they accomplished the feat, while the
younger ones stood close by, hand d1asped in hand,
watching; and Oandace threw herself on Orchis' neck,
when they swung wide, and trembled and wept. It
seemed as if all the world would pour in at once, so un-
protected, unsheltered did they feel; and when Precious
and Blush actually did come, and deliberately walk
through the gap, and tread the long path to the house,
and knock at the front door, and ask for the young ladies,
the whole four turned pale, as if attacked by robbers; it
was such an overturn in their lives.
.The youths got a welcome, however, and were invited
to look at the garden ; the twins returning unconsciously
to the habits of their training, and so the lady outdid the
farmer, and the bee was talked over, and the school-plan
openly discussed, and Griselda especially petted and
admired the adventurous heroes, who had been the part-
ners and provokers of the tremendous daring the children
had bravely carried into success. Shut out from all
chance of communication with the other sex for such a
long time, they enjoyed the visit much, listened open-
nouthed to all the fun and boy talk, and almost outdid


THE GIiEAT GATE IS UNLOCKED.-

the-Baiquither ladies :,in making much of the youths.
They were not admitted to the house, however, all four
feeling that such a step could not be taken till they had
come to some sort of understanding with Clytie, the
method and;time of which was frequently discussed, but
somehow deferred from day to day, being a dread and
horror to all of them, especially in her present mood,.
when she had been so deeply hurt, if such a word as
mood could apply to the marble statue of silence she
seemed.
"I shall take Miss Margery's advice," said Orchis
steadily, after one 6f their long debates ; "I shall go and
ask-counsel of her minister."
What sort of chance she had for sympathy and help,
we shall best find out by looking in on the hearth and
home of the holy man, who kept the wolves out of the,
calvinistic pasture.

CHAPTER XVIII.

ORTHODOXY AT HOME.
HE great Dr. llardbake was coming in the train !
there hadn't been such a gathering at the depot
since Mr. Goodlove took leave of his congregation
there, when he stood on the platform holding little
Tommy Goodbye by the hand, and followed by the kind
thoughts of the lame, the weary, the heavy of heart, and
the suffering, who were losing their best friend.
But with all his sterling virtues, his excellences as a
faithful pastor, a successful in-gatherer, Mr. Goodbye
had a terrible fault: he doubted the doctrine of'election ;
he dared to believe that Christ died for all, whosoever
will, and he thought for himself also upon total depravity
and predestination. He was stigmatized as new school
and heterodox, and so the poor and needy lost an active
helper, and the church a faithful pastor, and the great
Dr. Ilardbake was called in his stead.
A big-necked,,big-headed man was the divine, with a
great shock of stiff hair, shingled into bristles about half d
an inch long, clerically dressed in a long-tailed coat,
shiny pantaloons, high-lows, blue yarn stockings, and
vast white neckcloth. Obstinately dogmatic in character,
opinionated, impatient ofd contradiction, intolerant of

168

:: a.


I.

ORTHODOXY AT HOME.

171

0           ORTHODOXY AT HOME.
opponents in creed or government, a thundering preacher
both in manner and matter, who dealt largely in wrath,
law, threatenings, and .denunciations; so learned, that
Hebrew was child's play to him, and as for sanscrit,
hieroglyphics and the like small deer, they couldn't
make him wink. He would have undertaken to read the
writing on the wall to the Babylonish monarch, just as
readily as if he had known all about it ; he had a reason
for any event, which followed the creation all made out,
had.completed an exactscalculation of the times and hal k
times of Daniel, and had fitted them into the world's
history, so that he was satisfied,and considered "Faber on
the prophecies," mere waste paper.
He had six great sermons, besides the usual orthodox
efforts which he always thundered forth in.order, on tak-
ing a fresh field of labor, "The opening of the seven vials
of wrath," a fearful discourse, awe-inspiring, gloomy, and
grand, and full-of hard words, which drenched the female .
portion of the audience in tears, and often promoted wip-
ing of noses among the men. Then one onthe bringing up
of children,-text, "Spare the rod and spoil the'child"-
proving clearly that the more our tenderlings are checked,
thwarted, held in hand and restrained, corrected and
whipped, they better they must be; and. offering an ex-
ample of a worthy parent who was accustomed to allow
his daughters to make ready for a festivity and think
they were to enjoy it,'till the last minute; when they were
ordered to +1 off their fixings and gosto bed, that they'
might learn to bear disappointments. Augusta Blossom
said such a father- ought to- be hung; and was much
stirred to angry thoughts by the divine's evident relish of
the tale, and declared, that he was a '" hateful old thing."
Mrs. IHardbake also added her mite of good1 doctrine

by her lord's leave, and lectured the ladies on all sorts of
subjects of which they had the practical knowledge, and
she the ignorant presumgon.
In fact she was what is called a "good minister's wife,"
as if the chosen love of a preacher had any more business
to meddle with .the parish than the help-meet of any
other gentleman. I remember once hearing of a minister
in ripe age, who espoused a youthful bride. His congre-
gation were outraged at the disparity of years, and waited
by committee upon their pastor, admonishing him of his
rashness. After hearing what they had to say, he sent for
his wife, who came tripping to his side.
"Laura," said he, taking her hand, "are you satisfied
with me for a husband?"   "Oh yes, indeed!" replied
the bride. "Thank you, Laura, I ani also satisfied with
yon. ,Therefore, gentlemen, you will please manage your
own affairs and leave us to manage ours. My family is
as sacredly mine as any other man's, and I shall -not per-
mit interference. I married my wife for myself, and not
for my parish.-
Mrs. Iardbake once checked a young mother, who was
leaving her profitable exhortation to ran and take up her
screaming baby.
"No Jessamny,.you must not lift the child to your arms
every time lie sees fit to cry. Let him have it out alone:
it will make a strong character of him."
As poor Jessamy was niece to the reverend lady and
followed her teachings, her child exhaled into the heavenly
sunshine in the strengthening process, where strength is
love. When another nursling came to be cared for, she
turned the cold shoulder to Aunt Iiardbake and cuddled
it in spite of her.; and it lived to bless her care. But
this is rambling.


ORTHODOXY AT HO f173

The great divine had not acquired any offspring,° but
that made not the slightest difference. Ie did not con-
sider experience of any value, and hesitated not at all to'
instruct parents of large families upon the trailing of
their olive-branches, and the upshot of his teaching was a
big, bunch of stout rods' over the chimney-piece, replen-
ished as often as used up, well punctuated with hard
words and soaked in bread and water.
Next in order was a discourse on behavior in church:
".Let all things be done decently and in order," so put as
to be rather sure of giving offence, and kindling whatever
spirit of opposition there might be in the human heart ;
and the doctor carried his exercise of clerical authority to
the length of rebuking and pointing out anything which'
did not happen to meet his views in his congregation, not
sparing gray-headed sleepers who snored under his six-
teenthlys, nor little children who rustled and squirmed
while he thundered out his resounding periods.
Also a great sermon on amusements: Dancing was a
device of Satan, cards were named "Devil's leaves,"
backgammon a wicked casting of lots. In fact he bun-
dled all sorts of recreations together into a wrapper of
hell fire, leaving little to do on the earth (so ,thought his
young people) except to work, hear Dr. Hardbake preach,
look pious and pay their dues; insomuch, that the word
looked like a dreary prison, where Dr. Hardbake was
self-appointed jailer. Last but not least, was his scourger
on temperance, which, I am sorry to say, lost, little of
its value to such of his hearers as happened o inhale a
whiff of his breath after dinner.
But all this while we have irreverently left the great
man standing on the platform of the car, instead of es-
corting him home genteelly.

Mr. Goodlove's pretty residence, bay-windowed, many
piazzaed, had been created into a perpetual parsonage.
The trustees thought, as he had got to leave it, they might
probably secure it for about a third of its value; and very
likely they would have done so, but for Mr. Amaranth
Blossom, Augusta's father, who, having been a school-
friend of Goodlove's---as he expressed it,"snivelled over the
same spelling-book,"-and much interested in bringing him
to the parish, he watched the little game of the sharp
trustees, and just shoved aside the minister, and entered
into the bargaining with gusto, standing out, haggling,
and making terms.
" Why, gentlemen!" said he, stepping out on the great
piazza and looking off over Pleasant Valley, and waving
his hand at the flower-garden's winding walks, and the
tiny brooklet at the bottom. "Why ! gentlemen,_ those
oak-trees are worth a thousand dollars apiece; =and there
are thirteen varieties 'of grapes in full bearing besides the
peach and apple orchards ! I don't know where Goodlove
ever got the time to do Paul's work and Apollo's also, be-
sides his own; but he was always a tough chap; I notice
these fine-blooded fellows often are. i hope you see what
we are to get to make up for the-teaching he gave us in
God's best works and delicate living; but I suppose you
will be satisfied; if your new man dips his sermons in fire
and brimstone every Sunday, I suppose you will relish
the rations. I expect to get as fat as a match on the diet
myself  Y
Aftei the deeds were conveyed Mr. Blossom stood
shoulder to shoulder with his friend once more, to hinder
his investing his money in the. Sprightly Mining Company,
which was offered him by one John Nickson, who button-
holed him and talked his stock and piety at the same

4,;

172 ORTHODOXY AT .H'OM'E.


ORTHODOXY AT HOME.

time ; and Mr. Blossom did not rest satisfied, till he got'
the pay4ent safely invested in a \good paying "National
Screw;" which always gave fair dividends.
H4Irs. Hardbake went over the parsonage from garret to
cellar before she took off her bonnet, made remarks upon
all the furniture, which was a free gift, gathered and,
placed by the Baiquither ladies from the parish, found fault
with the former incumbent's housekeeping, pointing to
some pencil scratches on the wall of a chamber, evidently
used as a play-room, where childish hands had been busy
ornamenting to their idea, defacing in the view of their
elders ; and she also picked up and consigned to the kit-
chen stove some old toys, which little Timothy Goodlove
had outgrown and left behind, and the ladies, being also
mothers, had spared for the benefit of the possible small
:;  ..I1   bakes.
H Iflay rooms," said she, "have no business in a Christ-
an house, and toys are a wicked waste of money and
time. Children do not come into this sinful world to play,
but to get purified and made fit for heaven, and taught
how to escape damnation!"
Mrs. lardbake was a little, dark, wiry woman ; like
her lord, terribly learned. Indeed, I'm told that they
did their courting in Greek, and kissed in foreign tongues.
She was a teacher before she made the doctor happy, and
they had not been long settled in Cherry Brook, when
there came rumors that she had been reprimanded by the
school committee for undue flagellations and unheard of .
kinds of punishments, such as obliging her pupils to stand
on one toe for half a day, grinding the flesh off tender
fingers by twirling a lead pencil between them  while
crushed in her strong. grip, and other ingenious devices,
which did honor to her head and her heart.

She struggled to carry the parish on her shoulders.
Any ambitious female who thirsted for prominence in
-charity associations or sewing circles, found herself in the
lot of the wicked, for verily her hopes were cut off, the
sub-reverend madam concentrating all dignities in her
single self.
Mrs. Ilardbake had a child in her household, the off-
spring of a foreign missionary left to be educated ; one
of the poor little waifs, whom our laborers in foreign fields
are -so fond of dropping about -among the stay-at-homes,
very much as the ostrich lays her eggs in the sand, and
runs off, leaving them to be hatched or not, as they may.
If God in his providence bestows children upon missiofla-
ries, it rather looks as if he meant the missionaries should
take care of them, donlt it ? Mother duties in4Beyroot
are very much the same as mother duties in Cherry Brook,
only a little more so. But Mrs. Broadcast thought other-
wise, and she-cast her helpless baby into the Christian lap
of Mrs. Dr. Ilardbake and a compliment with it.
"I feel quite easy in leaving my dear Christina, though
she is but seven weeks old. Your system is so excellent.
You see I have carefully read the doctor's practical tract
on 'Bring up lambs for the true fold,' as well as your
own 'hints to Mothers.' I know she will be strictly
trained, and prepared to come out into the field in due
time and labor in the vineyard, and I beg of you to im-
press her infant mind with the weight of her coming re-
sponsibility, and her mother's self-denial."- And away
she posted to look over a fresh box of good things made up
by the Dorcas for her personal comfort, and to write
tracts and teach school for the 43eyrooters. So eager was
the, discussing plans for their comfort and salvation, that
even during her stay at the parsonage she was quite deaf

OR2".F tODOXY AT HOME.

174

1.75


ORTHODOXY AT HOME.         177

to the piteous wailing of the mite of flesh of her flesh
and bone of her bone, which ought to have drawn tears
from a savage heart. Can a mother forget her sucking
child ? Yea, verily, when it is a trouble and a hindrance
to missionary labor in a foreign field.
Little Christina had managed to get on somehow, and
was five years old when the Reverend Hardbake assumed
the pastorate of what was irreverently named the stub-
tailed church in. Cherry Brook, a stone edifice whose
steeple had never mounted above its roof, being tempora-
rily finished by boards and patching, waiting for a gush
of liberality among the members, which was slow in com-
ng.
She was kept in a high-chair several hours. of each day,
studying lessons, and Mrs. Hardbake instructed her maid-
of-all-work to say to visitors: "I cannot be seen at this
time; 1 am superintending my ward's education."  The
child committed on an average fifty or sixty verses of the
New Testament, and could reel off the Westminster Cat-
echism as glibly. as laughing Daisy Blossom could her.
Mother Goose. She showed little'desire for childish
sports or armusements, in fact, she never played ; when
released from the educating process, she sat in a little
chair, perfectly quiet. To be spre, her eyes were unnatu-
rally large and hollow, and hei head over-sized, but she
gave utterance to remarkable sentiments and wishes, had
already said many times, she should like to die and be laid
up in the church-yard where the birds would come and
sing above her grave; and on being corrected and told,
that she meant " go to heaven and be an angel," accepted
patiently the amendment and said, "yes, she did."  She
looked as if she might be -indulged. before long, some
days, when she had failed in her lessons and got only

bread and water for dinner. She sang plaintive hymns in
a weak, piping voice; sang them, standing at Mrs. Hard-
bake's knee, for company, who praised her very much in
the lady's hearing, and when they got outside it, declared,
it was a shame that poor thing was .kept so close and
treated so hard, and their hearts ached for her! So they
did!
Mrs. Hlardbake always carried a note-book and pencil
in her pocket, jotting down all Christina's pious sayings.
She intended to enrich the Sunday-school literature.in
due time with a book entitled "Memoirs of a Little Christ-
ian," and at one time she had the prospect of adding,
"who died at the early age of five years," but unfortia
nately the child got up from a low nervous fever she had,
and insisted on living, so that addendum  had- to be
stricken out. She had ,been presented a candidate for
admission to the church the spring before they left their
old parish, but refused on account of her extreme infancy.
Mrs. Hardbake persisted: "This child has had a won-
derful experience! she was born a Christian."
"Not according to our creed," replied the session (total
depravity and the rest, see catechism). Mrs. Hlardbake
tried argument, sweet cajolings, subreverend authority, in
vain, the elders were full of irony, but they were also hard
like iron. The doctor himself, ponderous, heavy weight
as he was, could not shove them a peg, and the lady was
obliged to erase the following entry which she had rather
prematurely made in her journal, her private journal
which she intended for publication:
"This remarkable child was cordially received into the
bosom of our dear church at the early age of four years,
and there were few dry eyes at the sweet and impressive
ceremony. Dr. Hardbake delivered his thrilling dis-
: 8*

VET HODO11 Y AT 11lll[+LM


178          ORTHODOXY AT HOME.

course from the text: "Out of the mouths of babes and
sucklings hast thou perfected praise," and her clear re-
plies to the questions of the officers were a marvel to all
who heard them. I dedicated her to God when she was
seven weeks old, and am not surprised at the result of my
teaching. I look forward to her perfect sanctification
ere long; I am praying daily for it." She read the ser-
mon-compliment to her husband (cunning creature), and
she thereby secured his influence in the matter ; which,
it is true, she had to "figure' a little upon sometimes.
One of the leading reasons in Mrs. Hardbake's mind
for desiring a new field, was her determination to intro-
duce her prodigy into the fold before she was five, nolens
volens, and she set to work about it as soon as she arrived
in Cherry Brook. Very few arrangements suited Dr.
Hardbake in his new place, and he projected reforms
with a high hand.
The children whom Mr. Goodlove had been accustomed to
gather into his study each week for a loving talk, spiritual
leading and cheerful hymn-singing, must be catechised
every Saturday afternoon. If he could have heard "the
curses not loud but deep," launched at him by youth thus
cut out of their half-holiday, he would have looked
glummer than he did, if possible ; and the side glances they
shot at him as they stood up before his severe spectacles,
were not amiable. He also changed the time.for prepara-
tory lecture, "Triday afternoon, three o'clock." The
sober old horses had jogged under the long shed ever
since they had been horses, and the farmers and their
wives been called to worship bythe bell of the Methodist.
"love feast," the stub-tail never having elongated into
tower enough to hold a bell yet.
Sucli gatherings as they had there during the Goodlove

vicarate, will never be forgotten' by the participants, so
comforting, so restful, such helps to holy living. But now
it was Friday evening, a time inconvenient and disagree-
able; when hard-working folks were tired and sleepy,
and the dark nights and storms made such cogent reasons
for staying away; that the attendance was thin, drowsy,
and uninterested in the dry service, only a couple of verses
of a hymn at most, and a long sermon full of hard words
and knotty doctrine.
He managed also to' spoil the singing on Sunday, frown-
ing upon the opening anthems the young singers de-
lighted in, insisting on old tunes, "Dundee, Rochester,
Maar," and the like, into which he droned with his rough
bass, like a wheezy old bag-pipe.
The greatest innovation was a Bible class of the -whole
congregation on Sunday afternoons, instead of the usual
sermon, in which he questioned his parishioners on abstruse
points of doctrine, calculated to show off his learning and
brow-beat the catechised in the presence of their peers.
"Brother Crowfoot, which system do we embrace the.
superlapsarian or the sublapsarian?$" asked he during
the first exercise, taking off his glasses and jerking them
at the brother, while he paused for a reply, and the others
looked curiously at the two.
"I dunno reely," answered 'the puzzled farmer, while
he rubbed his hands together, and cast about him a sickly
smile. Augusta Blossom  also smiled audibly.  In a
twinkling the divine's reproving finger was pointed at
her, and his big voice called'out:
"No laughing, young woman !" Then he got up, shock-
ingly red in the face, while he thundered forth a long and
very personal exhortation to the maiden, during which
Mrs. Blossom arose and left the meeting, followed by her

ORTLIOJDOX Y   AT H0MJ3f


T80           ORTHODOXY AT    OME.

entire family; and ill-disposed people got up a report;
that Augusta kissed her hand to the minister in the door-"
way. It was not true, she said afterwards; she wished
she had, and also gave it as her opinion, that although he
was obviously too old to have his hair pulled, his bald
crown showing the whiteness of an egg, he never would
betoo old to have his ears boxed, and she should like to
have the ceremony well performed; and old Miss Pet-
ingill immediately set afloat several versions of her re-
marks.
Now the Blossoms were people of means-; liberal sup-
porters of the church, full of generosity and gifts, and
the deacons insisted that Dr. Hardbake must set things
right with them; and they prevailed, because they used
touching arguments, which proved that his larder would
surely lack poultry at Thanksgiving time, and his-cellar
be scanty in earthfruits, unless the breach was healed ;
and a couple of them accompanied him on a 'pastoral
visit to the household to that end.
Mrs. Blossom was distantly polite, and after "the por-
tion of scripture and prayer," which was the minister's
idea of such an inroad, she said very mildly, but in quite
a positive, distinct voice:
" You may as well understand first as last, Dr. Hard-
bake, that you have not got a Scotch peasantry to deal
with, and if you expect such men as Mr. Blossom to help'
run the church, you will be wise to behave in as gen-
tiemanly a manner as possible. He rates men by their
conduct, not by their profession."
This was a very long speech for the quiet, friendly lady
to make, and though it .sounded plain and menacing in
the doctor's ears, it was the truth and good advice to boot.
But the learned divine glanced from under his shaggy

eyebrows, and dropped his loose underlip, while he
looked{ at her, and he departed very wroth, anal he had
no godd words for the family forever after. We must
do hii the justice to say, that he preferred his indigna-
tion t turkeys and chickens, and ran the risk of losing
creature comforts, rather than "knuckle down."  He
never afterwards spoke of Mrs. Blossom as a "decent
body," which was the encomium he generally passed on
such ladies of his parish as he approved. Old Miss Petin-
gill said : "Miss Blossom certingly did smile a contempt-
ible smile, and she hoped the reproof would have a salu.
tary effect." The bluff, comfortable farmer, "ruddy, fat,
and fair," who wore a shad-bellied coat, and a fob chain
as wide as your two fingers of guinea gold; with a come-
lian seal set in bear's claws, and a shirt double-ruffled,
. whenever he donned his best, who paid his hands every
Saturday, fed them good juicy meat, and never knocked
off their tea and sugar or preserves, like some of his
neighbors; whose heart was as warm as his purse was
heavy, who liked his friends with all his might, and hated
his enemies, was not a nice parishioner to get at odds
with. He had never been reconciled to the loss of his
schoolmate, Goodlove, and took no especial pains to
make things easy for his successor at best; but after the
public assault on his daughter, he would no more of the
parson; projecting at him his characteristicremarks on
any occasion when they came in contact, and his wife
had hard work to induce her Amaranth to attend any fur
there upon his ministrations.
" I don't take stock in the new dominie,my dear,"
said he. "I hate to see him come stalking into meeting
with a Bible under his arm, as big as a mile-stone, and if
a dog sneezes, he wants to have him arrested; and he'll

ORTHODOgY AT IiO3M                18'1


182         ORTHODOXY AT HOME.

fire off a lot of questions at a man, that the dickens,
couldn't answerj;n words as long as my arm; and  u
see him down the village buying anything, and you'll she
a chap that is as sharp as a worldling at a trade. He
lost the sale of- his gray mare last Friday, because he
wouldn't let Dan Burke have the halter to lead her home
by into the bargain. Dan said the stingy parson might
keep his old dapple till doomsday, and he don't think so
well of church folks since, neither. No Violet, my dear;
you are a duck of a woman, and I am very fond of
you, and I'll buy you a silk dress every week of the year,'
if you say so; and Gussy.is a good girl; I am proud of
of Gussy; she plays that organ like a nightingale. I
don't grudge the five hundred I put into it a mite, and
I'll harness up -the bays, and drive you down to meetin'
in style with all the pleasure in life; but don't ask me to
sit and hear that blusterin' critter show off his learning.
Doth not the wild ass bray when he hath grass?   Of
course he does; so does the parson when he gets into the
pulpit! I can't stand him! I'll tell you what I will do,
from the word 'go': -I'll drive you to Peaceful Valley,
and stop there over Sunday at the tavern, just to hear the
sound of Steadfast Goodlove's voice. I'd give ten dollars
this minute to hear, him pray. Don't look solemn, Violet-;
you know lardbake's sermons are as bare of interest as
a pig's tail of feathers he don't know when to talk and
when to hold his tongue. Why the other day I happened
to say 'damn,' and the prig pulled a long face and un-
dertook to tell me my business, as if I didn't know what
I'd a right to say as well as he did. ' All right, doctor,',
says I; 'you preach, and I swear, and we don't either
of us mean any harm by it, do we? only I must say, I
feel a little more modest than you seem to, telling the

Lord what he knows and what he don't know; every Sun-
day.'  He'd best leave me alone, Violet, my dear,
hadn't he? I've had the laugh all on my side so far."
It was not long -after his arrival that the minister came
into open collision with Mr. Blossom in the blacksmith's
shop, where, while the farmer was waiting for a portion
of stock calomel, the parson walked-in, cane in hand.
"Where's Burke?" asked he pompously of the journey-
man. " Tell him I want my horse attended to imme li-
ately."
"lie's gone out, sir, to take of widow Dodd's funeral.
I'll wait on you, sir."
" No you won't; I choose to have the master serve me,
not the bungling apprentice. Why don't the fellow stay
where he belongs, and mind his business?$"
" It is a part of his business to see his neighbors de-
cently buried, he thinks," answered the young man, color-
ing up through his grime and smut.
"No impertinence, boy! remember you are addressing
the minister ; I tell you his place is here. I shall re-
move my patronage, if he does not take more pains."
Mr. Blossom leaned against the ox-frame, whittling, a
favorite occupation of his leisure; he always carried a
very sharp knife and a supply of pine-sticks. His friends
often watched him with interest ; they thought he was
about to make something, but he never did. He smiled
while the divine was holding forth, and sliced off his
neat yellow shavings very carefully during the colloquy.
"The fact is, Dr. Iardbake," said he, brushing off a
couple of splinters from his sleeve, "the fact 'is, widow
Dodd had no business to die, much less get to her bury-
ing, till you'd had your horse shod."
The by-standers laughed, and the young journeyman

ORTHODOXY ,AT HOME,.              1;g3


ORTHODOXY AT HOM.

pushed off his paper cap, showing his white forehead and
black curls, and also his regular teeth in a hearty laugh,
and he smote his anvil with sounding applause.  The
parson tried to frown down the jolly farmer, who didn't
care a button for his airs, being like the unfrocked rector,
Who "did not degrade worth a cent," but preached harder
than ever under the ban of his bishop. Mr. Blossom looked
extremely pleasant under Dr. Hardbake's displeasure.
" By the way, doctor, is it true that 'Satan trembles
when he sees the weakest saint upon his knees'" as the
doctor dropped his underlie and glared, making no an-
swer, the farmer added: "because if it is, I was going to
say, I suppose you give him the shakes once in a while,
like the very mischief."
The doctor looked, as Mr. Blossom told his wife after-
ward, "as mad as a wet hen;" hut having no witty re-
joinder ready, and carnal weapons being out of his line,
he walked to the door and tamped his cane impatiently
among the cinders, leaving a grinning circle behind him
who much enjoyed his discomfiture.

CHAPTER XIX.

"COME UP INTO THE CHARIOT .OF LOVE.
11O MEllOW Mrs. Hardbake was not popular in
i Cherry Brook, for all her activity and good works,
and she had much trouble to gain any ascendency
over the outspoken women, who knew quite as well how
to fill missionary boxes, get up oyster suppers, clean the
church and such like, as they needed to, and did not take
kindly to any word of command from her. The female
prayer-meeting, at which she did all the talking and most
of the praying, soon got so reduced in numbers, that she
was obliged to do it,- if it was done; and her say 'so,
went only for the ipse dixit of one woman among many,
and a small woman at that; a state of affairs which wad
by no means agreeable to her. They ridiculed her set
phrases, made fun of her patronage, and did as they
pleased in spite of her.
The Balquither ladies invited her to their house using
all hospitality, and on the whole, were rather iore for
than against her on principle; but Mrs. Crowfoot. posi
tively refused to send around the three loaves, of calce,
and card of buns she was asked to bake one Saturday,
saying, she coal see no reason why Mrs. Hardbake was
not as well able to heat herself over the kitchen stoye as

184

e


180 -"C00ME UP INTO THE CHARIOT OF LOVE.'
she was. So you see, the life of the parson's wife was
not a bed of roses, for all her thorough orthodoxy. In-
deed Mrs. Goodlove had a better time, and was told by
Mrs. Plunket, who was instructed to find out what she
needed most one Christmas: "We find, Mrs. Goodbye,
that we must treat you as we do other people; you are
not a bit minister's folksy."
Orchis thought attentively over Miss Margery's advice
and finally resolved to act upon it, desiring to followthe
lead of some responsible person, living in the world. She
had an inborn leading to ghostly counsel, fostered at her
pious mother's knee in her sweet infancy, which no after-
life could subdue or obliterate. And it seemed as if in
taking this step she might find a clue to her future way,
which she was willing to seize and follow. But she
dreaded the minister's wife; she had been sat upon,
"warned to flee from the wrath to come, leave the beg-
garly elements of the world," at the paring-bee, besides
being unpleasantly looked over; and thoughrske did not
y to herself the good lady's right to behave so, she
J= other hoped she should not get any more of it; and
eed thebig-headed, big-necked minister was- suffi-
Sformidable.
s she was walking slowly along the road, turning over
a  her mind what she had to say and the qjiekest and
easiest way in which to say it, she was overtaken by Au-
giista Blossom in a little basket-phaeton, in which she
was fond of driving about the quiet country roads. No
sooner did Augusta espy the pilgrim, than she made haste
to lift her small sister Daisy upon her lap, pull in her
pony, and call out in a voice, friendly, and hearty as her
father's:-.

"CQfE UP INTO THE CH ARIQT OF LOVE." -181
"Come up into the chariot of love, Orchis, and I'll give
you an idea how Zilpah can step out."
"Thank you," replied Orchis, but I am going to see
the minister."
"Well, what of that I'll carry you to his house; I'd
as soon look about there a little as not, and I'll help you
make your call.  June Rose told me, the madam sent
that poor little missionary-weed she's got up-stairs, and
gave her no breakfast, because she came down one morn-
ing without the beau-catchers pasted on her flat cheeks;
they say she makes her wear them, just because she found,
out she hated the sight of them; she says it mortifies the
flesh."
"Turns it black ?" exclaimed Orchis aghast. "I should
scarcely think it possible, because if it is, it will kill the
.child."
"I should not. in the least wonder if it did, after a
while," replied Augusta, giving a minute's quizzical study
to Orchis' sober countenance. 'Come on, dear; I'll go
with you, just to show them Im not afraid of them, if old
'Blowhard'-(that is what papa calls him), did call me
out in church."
"But I intend to talk alone with the minister."
" Oh, you are a candidate to unite! Well, I won't hin-
der you talking alone with him, I'm sure. I'd rather it
was you than me."
"Idon't think I understand you, Augusta; I wish to ask
him for advice. Miss Margery McWhirter told me he
was the proper person to go to."
"Miss Margery ! of course, ae's hand-in-glove with all
the minister's folks. I'd as so6 go and knock ny head
against a stone wall, and ask for lollipops, but each one
to his liking. I insist on your getting in with me; Ivam


UPME UP l TO THE CHARIOT OP LOVE."
more than curious to hear how you will thrive. You see,
got Daisy all sprigged in her best, and I'll make her
p6int- a moral for the Beyrooter, who goes dressed like
time in the primer. How queer it seems, the idea of
going from home for counsel; I always pour everything
into papa's ears," Augusta added, after Orchis was seated
and she had driven a while in-a brown study.
"I have no father," replied Orchis in a low voice,
turning aside her face and watching the swift wheel's
motion..
"Plant my head for cabbage sprouts ! " said Augusta,
unconsciously borrowing one of her father's exclamations,
in her vexation with herself. " What a blunderer I am !
I knew you had no parents, and yet I couldn't have the
sense to hold my tongue; but as you are going to be my
dear friend, you must get used to me."
" Thank you; when I make up my mind that I may
have friends, I shall like you very much," replied Orchis
quietly.
"Take plenty of time to consider before you decide,
please," replied Augusta half vexed. "Candace was not
so slow about it: we vowed eternal friendship, the other
evening, before we had met fifteen minutes."
"My sister can make friends easily I think," said Orchis.
She did not speak directly again; as she was thinking how
one evening among people, had given her pet a foothold
and position, in spite of the past; and wondering why she,
Orchis, could not go forth as unconscious of it, and as
light-hearted as her merry sister ; and a thought of Prec-
ious Plunket mixed itself up with the rest, so that she
was still recalling his looks and words, when they reached
the parsonage.
" Well, here we are at the gate of Castle Dangerous,n

" COME UP INTO THE     HARIOT OF LO
said Augusta, pulling in Zilpah. "Hadn't we  er
a bit and say our prayers, before we enterind
"No," replied Orchis,."I only say mine morn
evening."
" Well, you are a funny girl I" said Augusta, laughing
at her matter-of-fact face. "You don't joke much,'do.
you. "
"No, Candace does; I believe I do not know how;
perhaps I can learn after a while, when I hear you do
it."
"Is that a hitI I believe you are an artful dodger, after
all your sober ways; but come on, since you decline to
take to your bended -knees, I shall proceed to use my ben-
ded knuckles. I see dear Mr. Goodlove's knocker is off
the door; I am glad of that."
When they were ushered into the sitting-room, Chris-
tina had been released from her high chair and lesson,
and transferred to a corner, where she was to stand one
hour, for looking off her book. She scanned the other
child in her fresh robes and rosy beauty, but she had no
smiles for her; she was pale, resigned, tearless, and she
stooped forward wearily ; she was nearing the end of her
time of punishment, when they arrived.
"Poor child! she is fit to 4rop! What do you suppose
she is perched up there for?" whispered Augusta.indig-
nantly. "How do you do, Christina? I've brought Daisy
to see you."
"Speak very pleasantly to the little girl," commanded
Mrs. llardbake, who entered the room just in time to hear
the last remark. "You may sit down now."
" And not .one minute too soon either," thought Au-
gusta, eyeing the lady over. " I'll see, if I can't stir up
the child, to look as' if the breath of life hadn't al left her."


L

190 "aOM3E IP INTO THE CHARIOT OF .OT. ."
"Ddisy is going to the circus to-morrow, Christina; won't
you come too, and see the pretty horses, and the ladies in
spangles, and the ponies, and hear the nice music? if
you like it, I'll take you, and buy you a lot of peanuts
into the bargain."
Mrs. Ilardbake fairly gasped. "Tell her what you are
taught in this pious atmosphere about such sinful amuse-
ments, Christina," said she in a severe tone,'calculated to
strike awe to the hearts of all present.
"I wouldn't go to a circus for anything," piped up the
child in a wee voice. "They are wicked ; only sinners
go to them. I'm going to make a purfession, and join
the church."
"Tell them what you love to do with your pennies,
Christina."
"I love to put them in the contrarry-bution box, to
buy Bibles for the heathings, that bow down to wooden
stone, so that they can all join the church and be good
like me."
Mrs. Elardbake rolled up her eyes and whipped. her
note-book out of her pocket, into which she jotted down
the pious reply.
While she was thus occupied, little Miss Laisy climbed
on the chintz lounge, and began running back and forth
between the two girls, falling on their necks and kissing
them at each return. As soon as the hostess discovered
her sportiveness, she quite unceremoniously rose, and
taking her by the arm, lifted her to the floor.
"I don't allow children to run on my sofa with their
feet," said she. Christina had been attracted by the
mirthful child, and following closely the motions of her,
laughing. face, she had very nearly smiled-in sympathy ;
but she left off quickly and looked frightened and wor.-

"COMfE UP INTO THE CHARIOT OF LGVE" 191
ried instead, as if she knew what it meant to be taken
hold of with a vengeance.
Poor Daisy, tenderly reared and much petted, gazed
an instant at the hard, dark, almost cruel face, shrinking as
far as possible from its beady eyes, while her little dim-
pled hand impulsively felt the place on her round soft
arm, which had been clutched by the wiry fingers; and
then burying herself in Augusta's lap, began to sob
miss Blossom rose instantly. "Don't cry, baby I" said
she; "we will go where there are handsome sofas, and not.
too good for your blue slippers either, any day of the
week. I shall wait for you in my phaeton, Orchis, and I
must say,:I wish you well out of this house!"
" My dear, you do not seem to understand ; you must
learn to receive my reproofs in a less contumacious spirit.
I am set over you to direct and instruct you, a mother
in Israel. I shall see your parents, and insist that you
behave more meekly and respectfully in my presence."
" I'll look out sharp, ma'am, how I get into it again very
soon. Your husband in church, and you at home, are
enough for the present. I shall be careful how you get
another fling at me. One mother will answer to manage
me, thank you; you can't stand me in a corner, nor Daisy
either, thank fortune ! Good-by, poor Christina; I am as
sorry for you as I ever was for anybody in my whole
life, so I ai! "
Augusta had not fairly reached the door, when she ran
against young Mrs. Prescott, whose husband left her, and
whose heart got so heavy sometimes, that she wanted help
to carry her sorrows ; and she was come for a call upon
her minister's family, hoping for a taste of comfort from
their abundance.


192 "00ME UP INTU THE CHARIO0T OF LOVE."
"Oh, good-morning, little dear," said Mrs. llardbake,
stooping to patronize the little one; "is this Judge Belli-
ger's child?"
"No ma'am, it's my child," replied the small lady.
"Oh, I beg pardon ! Mrs. Prescott ; I really did not
know you in that white sun-bonnet ; I took you for'-the
little one's nurse."
"'So I am, his faithful nurse, and he is my best com-
fort."
"Yes, of course ! You have gotten a man-child from
the Lord, and like Hannah of old you must dedicate him
to His work. Family all well ? "
"This is my family;. you see he is well."
"Christina, replace your right water-curl immediately;
you, have carelessly permitted it to drop. I am very ex-
act in my training of the dear treasure in what are called
'trifles.' Open your book, and, commit three verses of
the sixth hymn-' There is a fiery, dreadful hell,'-as a
penalty for your heedlessness. I have had a visit from
an ill-bred, saucy girl, plainly unregenerate and belong-
ing to the evil one. Of a truth, there are few women fit
for the awful responsibility of rearing immortal children
for the next world. I intend giving a course of lectures
to mothers, as soon as I can weave them in with my other
heavy duties. Christina,! if you cannot keep awake, get
up and stand till you have finished your task. Instant
obedience, you see, is my method. You and your husband
have presented .your son in baptism, I presume, Mrs.
Prescott ?"
"No, I -am alone with my child," and the little lady's
voice trembled.
"Ah yes; I remember; he has left you. Well, in such
cases, I think there is generally apt to be blame on both

"COME UP INTO THE CHARIOT OF LOPE." 193
sides. It is the duty of the wife to try and reclaim the
wandering spouse, and stay up his hands during the labors
and trials of- the masculine life."
Mrs. Prescott rose with a heavy sigh. Her unworthy
husband had broken every command in the decalogue; he
was accustomed to come home from his filthy. orgies,
smash her furniture, beat her boy, and ill-use herself.
She knew better than Mrs. llardbake, what kind of stay
his hands needed to keep him human, and she gave up
whatever idea she might have entertained, of telling her
griefs, or seeking help, and took .leave with a longing
after the Steadfast Goodlove, and his sympathetic wife,
who always knew just what balm she lacked,.and how to
lead her over the hard places.
It was with rather a forbidding countenance, that Mrs.
Hardbake turned to Orchis, who had sat through these
calls in concentrated quiet; Augusta's pert independence
rankled in her breast, and she had a mind to visit it on
her companion.
"You have an errand to me, my dear ?" asked she in-
quiringly. Her manner said, the sooner you get it out
and go, the better !
" I wish to see Dr. llardbake, if you please."
" Oh, you desire to present yourself for membership ? "
"I don't know what that is; I wan't advice. Miss
Margery McWhirter told me the minister was the proper
person to understand my needs, and I have come by her
instructions to ask him some questions."
"I generally attend to the young girls who desire
spiritual converse, myself, my dear."
"I do not understand what you mean by 'spiritual
converse.' Miss Margery said I was to see Doctor" Hard.
bake."

TI

4

E

~. ,
M     '
i
i.F -
t
1


% "00HE UP INTO .THE CHARIOT OF LOVF'
" Very well, go 'to his study then," replied the lady
tartly; "the right-hand door, upstairs. Christina, step
out and walk six times back and forth, while you rep. at
your catechism, and then come in, put up your books, and
wash your face for supper."
A very loud, gruff voice, replied " Come'in " to Orchis'
modest, firm little knock, and she entered the theological
sanctum, studded with Calvinism. It hid, away in t '
great volumes in the book-cases, frowned from the rather
dirty cast of old John's knobby head on a stand in the
corner, and the ugly picture of the other John, who
made it his boast, that he had caused poor badgered Queen
Mary to shed tears with his harsh reproofs, which loomed
from its frame on the wall, a charming pair!'. it writhed
all over Dr. Hardbake, he was so stuffed crammed with
its repellent dogmas, that his very hair stood on end.
He was sitting at a table and literally barricaded with )r-
thodoxy. Books were also dropped promiscuously about
the floor, and Orchis stepped fearfully over them as she
advanced. 'A strong odor of cider brandy diffused itself
upon the air, and a bottle and glass at the divine's.right
hand, seemed to hint that he had been wetting his sermons
in ecu de vie as well as brimstone, and a jar of jam near
his feet, with a spoon in it, also some smearing about his
clanging lips, which dropped loosely at the corners, like
,an amiable bull-dog's, showed that the great man re; led
himself with sweets, while eliminating good doctrih
After a very brusque "good-day," and a tilting of his
spectacles to her level, he waited for her to unfold her er-
rand. Now there was one natural gift possessed by the
reverend Steadfast Goodlove, in which Dr. Ia .dbake
was absolutely 4eflcient. ie never forgot nanies,he was
ale to speak as familiarly to evevy child in~ his parish as

, "uoi  UP INTO THE CHARIOT. O' LOVE." 195
their own mothers, which was a good thing, because the
little Freddys and Marys felt that Mr. Goodlove knew
all about them, and liked them every one. Glad faces
always greeted his approach; his "How do you do, my
child?" was worth going to Sunday-school for ; he got
hold of odd peculiarities and listened to queer confi-
dences. Nothing ever astonished him or .put him out,
and his laugh over' a youthful joke was as merry as
thirteen, and really the hearty way in which he rapped
his' dos-a-dos in'" Brother I am bobbed," and romped in
"Blind man," was enlivening to see. "Mr. Goodbye,"
said a little girl to whom he was explaining the form of
uniting with the church, "how do you suppose the Cath-
olics do it? "
"They put salt in their mouths and feed them with a
spoon."
On the face of it, it would not look;as if much could
be made of this bit of information, but he preached
them as good a sermon on the "Salt," as Dow did. on
"Malt" when he was forced to hold forth from a stump,
by some frolicking fellows. You all remember that dis-
course, beginning: "M-my masters, a-all of you,l-hi-
ten t-to my text!" when he poured out such stinging re-
gfoofs upon their loose lives, that they were glad to slink
away and leave the dauntless preacher possessor of the field.
Dr. Hardbake never recognized anybody, and had
thing to say to children, except, "You must lead pious
fives, and come and hear me preach."
.Uhe power Orchis possessed over her features, enabled
hes to preserve an outward calm, though her. heart
thamnped hard and her hands felt cold and moist;,telling.
as little of the home-story as might explain hererrand
she. waited for the pastor's counsel.


196 "COME UP INTO THE CHARIOT OF LOVE."
Presently it came, in a great gruff voice, like the great
huge bear's when he accused little Silver-hair of eating
his porridge:
"Do you know your catechism, young woman? "
"No sir."
"Do you read the Bible every day?"
"No sir."
" Go to Sunday-school?"
"No sir; I have explained that I go nowhere."
"Well, your path is plain: learn your Westminstei', at-
tend my Bible-class, be in your place in my church every
Sunday, and attend to your duty on the farm where Prov-
idence has seen fit to put you."
"But I desire another life ; I feel that I might be use-
ful elsewhere; I want to study."
"You can read write and cipher, I suppose ? "
''Yes sir."
," Very well, that is learning enough for women ; there's
teachers in~ plenty already; your vocation is so, plain
that it does not need discussing. Learn to make butter
and cheese, and when the time comes, marry some young
farmer and take care. of his house, raise his children ;
what more can you want "
"A good deal more," said Orchis. "I want to learn
the wealth of books, I want to come as  near as I can to
the great minds of the world, to think ;their thoughts,
rise to their level. I want to use my brains as well as my
hands."         -
"Heresy ! rank heresy ! women's rights abomination !
a device of the devil! women should be keepers at home.
If I had the making of the laws, I would see that they
stayed there."
" Yoir wife lectures in the public meeting, I hear," said

uQOME UP INTO THE CHARIOT OF LOVE." 197.
Orchis looking at his red face, and inly wondering how
Miss Margery could think this minister would help
her.
"My wife is-my wife," answered the divine, much put
out; "she is no criterion for- any other female in the con-
gregation."
" I think I had better go," said Orchis, sighing.
"I think you had; go home and work. I shall visit your
house when I get to it in my round. I will sample your
butter and cheese, and approve your housekeeping."
The minister smiled ; Orchis' beauty, so perfect, melted
him that much, and he dismissed her with the admoni-
tion to be a nice decent girl, and she'd be sure to get a
husband."
Augusta burst into a laugh 4hen Orchis appeared, her
. eyes seeking the ground and her face very sober in-
deed.
"I know what sort of advice you got," said she; "but
never mind ; get in and I'll take you home to my mother ;
she'll tell you a good many things worth knowing, and
my papa shall talk 'with you, and you shall stay to
supper, and then Pll drive you home in the evening.
"II thank you," replied Orchis, "but I shall notaskaiy
more advice; I have made up my mind what I need, and,
I shall go straight on now till I get it."
"Wouild you mind telling me what it is?" asked
Augusta. "I am a rattle-pate, I know; but I cansee as
far into a mill-stone as the next one."
Orchis looked fixedly at her companion, without reply-
in.
"What are you staring at?, is my face dirty?" asked
Augusta.
"Oh no, your face is as white as milk, and your cheeks


198  "COME UP INTO THE CHARIOT OFLO."
red; yon are pretty.- I was thinking what May Rose said
of you at the.paring-bee."
"Well, what was it ? nothing complimentary, I'll en-
gage for her."
"That is what I want to understand. She said you was
loud. I listened; you did not speak louder than she did."
I should hope not," answered Augusta coloring up;
"that was not what the minx meant either ; I'll pay her
off."
"What did she mean?2 "
"She has been to the city to school, and she brought
home a lot of finny fine airs that don't suit me; I speak
my mind, and frolic, and act as I please."
"Is that being loud?"
"«If you are sincerelfy in pursuit of knowledge, Orchis,
I will tell you: fast and loud come to the same thing ; I
am neither."
"I don't understand, I am afraid," said Orchis hope-
lessly;. "fast and loud."
"Well get in anyhow ; you can't expect toknow every-
thing at once," replied Augusta, making a place for the girl
at her side. " You are far enough from either at any rate,
and Miss June will catch Hail Columbia before she.
knows it."
Hail Columbia I.is not that the title of a National
song?".
"Do get in, I beg of you; you will kill me outright,
I verily believe. If you are quizzing; you had better
quit it ; I always pay such debts with interest."
Orchis climbed into the carriage . without another
word.

r CHAPTER XX.

"YOU A PREACHER I A WoMAN!
ARDLY had the pretty young pilgrim started on
her errand that day, when Griselda had a visitor
in her turnip-field. A month before, she would
have vouchsafed no answer to a greeting, beyond a scant
nod, ,or at most a plain good-morning," and gone on
with her work. But the late events had regurgitated all
ideas in such strange fashion, that the possibility of speak=
ing, and being spoken to, had got leave to dwell in her
mind, and when the Rev. Colombia Johnson stopped and
leaned over the wall, watching her labor and saying:
"Good-morrow, fellow-worker; how goes the harvest?"
she straightened herself, returned the smile with one of
her own quite as genuine, and replied:
"As it may be; we sow and hoe, but we do not know
how much crop we may gather."
"Nay then, my sister, I expect well to gather abund-
ance for my toil. I think you do not well know me. I
must tell you that I am one Colombia Johnson, the Uni-
versalist preacher of yon church. Look, you may see its
modest spire through the clearing."
" You a preacher ! a woman!"
The lady laughed at the tone of the exclamation, and


" YOU A PREA$.F'R! A WOMAN!"

0 " YOU A PREACIIHER! A WOQAN!n

she stood the fire of the look which was poured over her,
covering the fine bunches of small curls gathered from
her wide forehead at either temple ; her bright, sweet,
quick, vivacious ways ; her admirably dressed little per-
son ; the good, solid time-keeping watch in her belt; the
golden buckle at her waist; the handsome brooch at her
throat; her biern gants, bien chausss hands and feet, every
detail perfect.
" Yes, wherefore not ? I've a glib tongue ; I love to
use it. Fine health;. I am not afraid to trust it ; and a will
to work for my kind. I am going now to visit young
IHarry Scramble, who cut his leg on a reaper up at the
Blossom  farm.  I shall watch with him to-night; his
mother is one of the weaklings, who get used up in child-
bearing, and only drag life forever afterwards. She is
not much of a nurse; a wooden woman would do almost
as well; she can't afford doctors in general; but I make
my good Mattoon to attend, and lay up the bill, which he
will never get cashed, among his treasures in heaven. I
have fairknowledge of simples, myself. I know when
babies need catnip; when fevers call for nitre; when
broken bones deserve wormwood."
"A preacher ! " repeated Griselda, still busy with the
first bit of information Colombia had offered her.
"I have half a mind to be angry with you," replied the
visitor, pointing her forefinger at the thoughtful girl in
the shaker bonnet. "I am indeed ! you show too much
astonishment. Do you mean to make me understand that
my name and fame have not travelled so far as your,
meadows, and I a whole year your neighbor by a couple
of miles! In truth, it is hard to swallow!"
"As for your fame, it might fly far, all around the
country, and never touch us by the weight of a thistle-

down; we live as much apart, as if there were no world
outside our land."
"And do you like it? this life so private ? "
"It is no question of liking," replied Griselda, coming
up to the wall, and leaning on her hoe, while she looked
in her visitor's face; " it was a necessity thrust upon us ;
wewere pushed into it, head foremost. It took us as sud-
denly as an earthquake; it whirled us from our rooted
customs, as.swiftly as a tornado snaps away the saplings."
"Would you like to tell me the necessity?" asked Co-
lombia, intently studying the talker, her rapid words, her
eager manner, her delicate slenderness, fine and supple,
her careless forgetting of personal charms, so absolute as
to seem unconscious of them. "Will you speak of your
past? I almost think you ought ; your eyes have a hun-
gry craving for human sympathy, and womanly benefi-
cence. I have heard of you; the people hereabouts are
not silent upon your habits. It is natural to denounce
what we do not understand, and much fault is found with
your odd ways, your ignoring of the noble creature, Man,
in your life. I, being one of the glorious company ot
martyrs known as old maids, see-nothing strange in your
independence ; and I came this way to day, partly to peep 
at your flowers, and partly to try another chance of see-
ing some of my sisters out of bonds. Come, speak ! I am
a minister on purpose to hold cares for my people. Al
universally work."
" Universal ! your creed is too wide; it takes.in every-
body. I do not like it," answered Griselda frowning.
"There are wretches for whom an eternity of misery is
too short."
"It won't harm you to believe in the best and fullest
aid for all sufferers; the widest good for all; the amplest
9*

' '
r'

201

200


W'

202

« YOU A PRJRACHERI A WOMANn - '

compensation for all mistakes ; the supremest joy for all
capable of being made happy."
"That is all very well; but I do not desire to jump out
of this life into one where the accursed, for whom I can
imagine no adequate pangs, shall b sailing about in plen-
tiful enjoyment. No! I must have a hell in my creed.
There are a few monsters, whom I hope to see burning
there."
"You have all the hell you need right here," answered
Colombia, smiting her breast with her small fist, "while
you cherish the spirit of hate and all uncharitableness.
God's high heaven would be but a dreary prison in that
graceless state. But I won't preach a sermon here; you
shall promise to come and hear me clear that dogma--i'ub-
bish collected by men, who invest God with their own
revenge and cruelty-satisfactorily away in my pulpit. I
feel fully able to prove the excellence of my doctrines
for comfort and growth, and that is what we need; a
good deal more than to launch damnation at our enemies.
Come,let us drop the professional, and visit alittle in true
womanly fashion. I want to hear you talk."
A small wiry creature was the Rev. Colombia who had
come into her vocation through a regular gradation of ex-
periences, which many young girls commence, but the
glad acme of which very few attain. A. loving, quiet,
retiring child ; a studious5 busy maid ; a plain woman, not
attractive to the other sex. She finished school with
honors, read all the books in her way, thought out her
thoughts, and then being set free from the routine of her
daily employments, she looked around to find what next ;.
and chafed and fretted under the aimless life she saw be-
fore her.'
Her mother chided hen restlessness, and- said : " How

"YOU A PREACHER! A WcOMANV"          20a
wrong, Colombia! You must be content with woman's
sphere of little occupations; you must make the house
pleasant to your papa's, friends."
Then she dutifully tried housekeeping, sewing, writing,
and pursing sweet lips at the people about her, listening
to thpir talk, and saying small nothings in reply. Then
she flew at-her piano, but though she loved music as a
refreshment, she could not find enough in it to fill all her
soul, and she discerned nothing in all to compensate for
the daily weariness.
Mrs. Johnson watched her daughter, spiritless, uninter-
ested, her face a dull blank, and being at her wits' end,
finally carried her perplexities to her minister. He rec-
ommended religious reading, and sent the girl a whole
armful of doctrinal books.
Dutiful again, Colombia went through them, but she
came out at a different door from what her teachers ex-
peeted, even by the gate called "Beautiful," which stands
open to all who desire to enter the celestial city. (This,
mind you, dear readers,'is Colombia's account of herself
given to Griselda, who leaned over the wall, and eagerly
drank in her words ; I endorse fione of her statements.)
The more the seeker sought, the. more she abhorred the
narrow cieeds of Calvinism, the more she longed for the
full life, the well-guarded rest, she found at last for all
God's children.
At a certain point in her struggles, there came into her
arms a beautiful, helpless baby sister, all hers to nurse,
° tend, love, worship.  The mother lay ill upstairs for
months and months, and Colombia stood in her lot among
the household cares. Despite all her cherishing, all her
fondness, the child sickened and died, " unbaptized, un-
regenerate, lost," said her church ; "saved, gathered home


''  O4 ,"  YO.U A PREA CBER ! A I OMAN!"
to the infinite motherliness of God," said her heart; and
there bending over its bier, she found the Christ she
needed.
Made in God's image, she discovered some points of
the likeness. The Christ who loves, who pities those He
loves-; who loves and pities, therefore suffers with the ob-
jects of affection ; no longer an abstract, a cold, distant,
unapproachable, self-absorbed Intelligence, but a real
Friend. No troubles too inconsiderable to bring to the
sympathy of a Christ who numbered all the hairs of our
heads. It is safe to commit all interests of all creatures
to such a God. He made them all. He has not forgotten
the world. He must bring every soul into its best place.
Somewhere, some time in the round eternity, every crea-
ted soul being only finite, must come into the largest de-
velopnent of its bestowed powers; and as its growing
love and trust and excellence bring it nearer to God, till
it expands into the perfected perennial beauty and glory
he desires, who is able to disturb its heaven?"
When the mother was well again in her own place,
Colombia avowed her new-found faith, and also a desire
to find a parish, where. she could teach its comforts and
helps to those troubled, perplexed, and tried as she -had
been. So strong and steady was the wish, the inspiration
of her purpose, that she carried the will and wishes of her,
parents along with her, and under advice and aid of a
great and good man, whose life shines with deeds of
kindness, whose work is helping, she pushed on, finished
her studies, got a license, and was working in her first
parish, Cherry Brook.
She found there what she sought; people poorer than
she, whom she could assist; people more ignorant, whom
she .could. teach ; tempted ones, whom she could watch

"YOU A PREACHER! A WOMAN"

205

for, and pluck out of evil; and her days were rich with
labors, interests, responsibilities, and satisfactions, which
made it worth living.
"It is what I want !" exclaimed Griselda, entranced
with the vivid picture. "Is there as ample room in your
field for labor, as there is in your faith for consolation ?
May I not come and live with you, help you, love you,
even as you love your Christ and toil for His children ? I
shall be no burden in any wise ; iy hands are used to
use, my head is clear and cool, and my body is a faithful
servant of my soul. I do not lack money; I ask only a
footing in God's world, with something to do for myself
and my kind."
"Let in first hear the necessity you spoke of," replied
Colombia cautiously; "it may be you. are already in your
best position; you shall come and see me at any rate,lear-n
how I live, and what I do."
"iMay I trust you?" said Griselda half to herself; " it is
hard story, a painful time to recall;'it wraps us all in. If
I could 'longer carry my burdens, I would not open my
lips, but something has happened lately among us, which
has stirred all our hearts, and filled us with unrest. Now
you come to me with your earnest face, your winning
voice, your sense of power, and my blood thrills in my
veins. I see the outside world rife with struggles, want-
-ing in workers, open to me. I feel that I may step out
and set my shoulder to the wheel with the rest of the
toilers. I shall speak!"
" A terrible tale, indeed!" exclaimed Colombia, when
she had heard all. "If only a strong, brave friend had
come forward, how different it might have been. I could
weep to think of your sister ! such glorious womanhood
wrecked, lost out of value; the rest of you may come back


208  "YOU A PREACHER1 A WOMAI"

anytime to your right 'places, but she so bruised, so
stricken, how shall she be healed ? So much for the
lordly creature man! Could I get to see her, do you
think ? my heart bleeds for her."
"Clytie, oh no ! she would not permit you to come near
her; she would not look at your face, listen to your voice;
she, is as if living in marble."
"I shall not settle to any such impossibility ; I will
watch, and bide my time. Earth has no sorrow that
Heaven cannot heal; there may be a corner for comfort
even in her dead soul. In the meanwhile, and as a first
step, I shall welcome you gladly. You are called Gri-
selda, the meek and patient ; I could hope you are not
such a precious fool as the Chaucer woman, but I warn
you, you will need your whole stock of virtues, when you
come among the animals who call themselves "lords of
creation." .You must make no wry faces at grossness, sel-
fishness, craft, and other prevailing evils, which your se-
clusion ought to have kept you strange to. So buckle on;
your armor, and strike out. I teach my young girls to
make wax flowers, Thursday evenings, and we do also
some reading, and a good measure of talking; can't you
come and join us, and so slip into your niche among usV"
" I think I can. I thank you; but-"
".But what, my dear? You are not seeking to furbish
up any objections ? Oh! I see: being isolated so long,
you dread to make the plunge ; my plain statements of
human wickedness have disgusted you."
"A little of both, perhaps; but I am not constitution-
ally timid; my fear of the creatures who are of the same
clay with me, fashioned like mine, shall not hinder my
steppingig in any path I decide on. I have not dwelt
among angels the last five years'; only girls,the same as

206

"YOU A PREACHER! A WOMAN!"                 27"
others I suppose. The trouble is, I ai Eve's daughter
without anything to wear."
"Oh! a Flora McFlimsey out here on a great farm 1
Well, that is original and interesting !" replied the Rev.
Colombia, laughing.
"I do not uandestand your allusion; I never heard of
the person you quote. You suggested to me the impos-
sibility of coming into your parlor in this " (touching the
sleeve of her homespun gown). "I know I shall carry
my name, 'old maid,' with me wherever I go; Orchis
and Candace hd it thrown at them over there " (jerking
her head defiantly awards the Balquither house), " where
they say there are five more of them. Therefore, unless
you can help me out of your abundant wisdom, to a gown
like yours; a pretty one of such rich color, like a ripe
plum; such a dainty hat; blue lupines upon it ;-their
fellows bloom yonder in our garden ;-such gloves !-.
there ! do you see that shoe ? Goody Ruddock makes
them; what do you think your' young ladies who make
wax. flowers and read and talk would say to that? As I
do iot mean to be obliged to hide my feet like our pea-
cock, I must be better shod. -I am not unskilled in those
needs, but five years of disuse make me rusty, that's
all."
" And opportunity will soon rub off the rust, I believe,
into a polish as agreeable as exquisite," said Colombia,
admiring the girl, who was as handsome as Clorinda.
"Clear it out of sight at all events, I fully expect ; and
as my sister Vashti shares my bed and board, and all my
best thought's, she must .also share my enfranchisement; I
crave your gracious permission to bring her
"Permission! most modest neophite ! do not put it so
coldly. Two such ripe, rich women, hardened to endur-


68 "YOU A PREACHER! A WOAANI"
nce, not to be melted like sugar and salt in out-door
weather, or moulded like wax by men's blandishments;
clean as vestals, vigorous as boys, ought to accomplish
wonders. Let me see ! how shall I do it ? What if you
two were to come with me now to my dress-maker and be
fitted?"
"Impossible! I'd rather face your young people than
the staring, curious, under-bred workers in a dress-
maker's loft. J am a born lady, li~ss Colombia; you are
able to feel it. Those people who rate women by their
clothes would  ok down on me ; I fane  t undertake to
run any such gauntlet. You will please devise some way
of bringing the things complete to us. When I step out
of my shell I wili go, as you say, 'clad in armor.' You
universally help, therefore this comes in your province."
* "True, Grisel, every need I can supply is in my line;
therefore I see no occasion to look black over a lack of
clothes. Hum! there is Cynthia Mattoon, she is about
your size : full bust, good shoulders; not too fine in the'
waist; I think she will do,-and I dare say you have
needle skill to alter what does not exactly fit. I will be
here, Deo Volente, with two plum-colored; dresses Thurs-
day morning, even if I have to work at them myself ;
therefore commend me to the sister,-,what did you call
her?"
"Yashti."
Ah! the stropg-minded queen who wouldn't come at
her lord's bidding. Has her dignity any plans for the
future?9 "
"1None that I can unfold to you. She has capabilities ;
she will herself speak of herself."
" Quite right; not given to babbling, I perceive; a
good thing in an embryo minister, who is very likely to be

"YOU A PREACHER! A WOMAN!"

the adviser .of her flock. Now I must travel on; you
have offered ine much matter to ponder over till we
meet again."
You may be sure that little time passed before Griselda
poured her new hopes and prospects into her twin sister's
ears, and they sat long under the yellow chestnuts talk-
ing not much about the. old life before the fall, nor yet
of the quenched existence they had shared on the farm,
but of the opening future; strengthening each other, fir-
ing each other's zeal, and also building air-castles,-what
girl's future is not full of them? In this case, however,
no man was admitted, wished for, thought of; lovers,
husbands, were not reckoned among the blessings they
coveted.
"I will have a home of my own, and on the door-plate
- I will put, ',Reverend Griselda Dunwreath, LL.D.".
"No house-keeping trammels for me. I will build an
office; I will also build up a practice. I will heal dis-
eases, cast out devils. I will get to myself skeletons,
drugs, and patients. I will have a door-plate and a
night-bell: ' Vashti Dunwreath, Physician and Surgeon.'
It is a good life, sister. Now courage and perseverance
till we reach our goal. In the meantime we must finish
our day's work."
So saying, the two arose and kissed each other soberly,
and bent vigorously to the task in hand, hoping for the
realization of the busy future they meant to make.

209

',   l
,,,,,       -.


CHAPTER  XXI.
OROHIS TAKES TEA AT THE BLOSSOMS.
HE invitation to the home of the Blossoms was
readily accepted by Orchis Dunwreath, as part
of the purpose she had in hand, to find out for
herself what sort of interiors there might be in the
houses about her; and she made an excellent start with
the jolly, well-to-do farmers, who lived in plenty, denied
themselves nothing they desired, petted and loved their
children; and got all out. of country life it was able to
afford, both of occupation and recreation,
Mrs. Blossom was a full-blown bloom; rosy, fair, and
comfortable. She carried in her appearance nothing of
the sour, thin, wiry, over-worked look, which marks too
often the aspect of the farmer's wife, whose life is all hard
lines: cooking, washing, scrubbing, till there is nothing
else left in it except, maybe, a taste for gossip-the days
being a dreary, steady grind; worse, infinitely worse,
than poor Mantalini's at-the mangle. Mrs. Blossom had
serving men and serving maids ; and she took her ease in
such portions of time as were hers, when her overlooking
was done.
Mr. Blossom always took his wife a trip "after har-
vest." When he went to "the city," he couldn't half en-
joy his business or pleasure unless "Violet, my dear,"

ORCIS TAKES TEA AT/THE BLOSSOMS.        211
was along to hear all about it. It cost more money to
farm it on the Blossom plan, but it paid. "Man never is,
but always to be blessed," was-no part ,of his theory or
practice; he believed in getting something nice out of
every day in the year. "If we die in any sort of sea-
son," said he, "we shall have enough to last us out, and
enough to spoil the young ones beside; and I can better
afford to have Nancy waste.a cheese once in a while,
than I can to see my Violet 'et blowzy over the hot fire
drudging and fretting." Don't you wish, wives, there
were more men in the farming-line, of bluff Mr. Blos-
som's-mind
A stone wall claimed the attention just now of the
ruddy gentleman.  "Yeoman" I suppose he would be
called in lands where there are lords to whom common
folk must take off their hats; but our farmers, 'artisans,
tradespeople, all! may be gentlefolk, if they lift them-
selves to their right level of sovereigns, by intelligence
and true living; for which, thank Heaven and our free
democracy ! "A church without a bishop, and a state
without a king."
As soon as the gentle yeoman espied the phaeton and
its fair occupants, he left his work aid came a little way
down the grassy road to look at them, admire the pretty
turn ut, and the handsome girls.
Porn nd Precious Plunket also, approached; having'
just returned from a successful wood-chuck hunt, as was.
vouched by a couple of big fellows they carried slung on
a pole across their shoulders.
"Let ins get out here and walk up to the house," sug-
gested Augusta. " Here, Pop" (thus she irreverently ac-
costed her male parent), "make Mike take Zilpah to the
stable, please; we are through with her."


212 QRHIS TAKES TEA AT THE BLOSSOM.
As Orchis stepped to the ground, they all looked at-
her. Such a quaint, simple girl as she appeared ; such
high-bred, delicately outlined beauty too. Her hat was
of rye-straw platted, high-crowned, broad-brimmed as a
Swiss peasant's, yellow as burnished gold; and around
it Augusta had woven great clusters of flaming autumn
leaves, maples, crimson and yellow-purple ash, and the
slim, shining sumac. Her dress was of red flannel, spun
and dyed by Goody IRuddock; her stockings of knitted
yarn ; her shoes clumsy, home-made, and ill-shapen ; but
the plain garments could not mar or detract from her
pure beauty, so they all felt. Mr. Blossom took both
her hands and welcomed hei- heartily.
"Glad to see you! Nice .girl! Come often; stay a
good-while !"
Porn made a sidling, jerking bow, blushing to his hair;
and Precious looked as pleased as possible.
"How much did you give apiece for those horrid crea-
tures ?" asked Augusta of the hunters.  "You would
have been wiser to save your pennies to buy sugar-whistles ;
wouldn't they, Orchis ?"
"I supposed they had shot them," said Orchis, simply ;
"they have guns, you see."
"That's what they desire us to believe, but I know
their tricks and their miners: they carry the guns for
show. They don't load them; they're afraid to."
"Give me leave to fire mine at you?" asked Precious,
letting off the game-pole and 'raising the gun to his
shoulder, taking aim.
"No ! no! don't shoot ! Pop, make him put it down,"
screamed Augusta; "he might hit me!"
"Ha! ha!" roared Mr. Blossom, "you are caught ;
fairly caught, Gussy, in your own trap. You shouldn't

oREHIS TAKES TEA AT THE BLOSSOMS:" 213
ever do that though, my boy, even in fun; so many acci-
dents have happened out of just such, nonsense. I can't
bear to see anybody fool with a gun."
"It is not loaded, sir " answered Precious; "I would
not have lifted it else. I put the charge into that fellow"
-turning over the woodchuck with. his toe-" there,
you see, right between the eyes."
"A good shot!" said Mr. Blossom. "Come, and I'll
show our new hen-barn, which I have fitted out of the old
ice-house."
" It was an ice-house, it is a nice house, it will be a lice-
house in due time," observed Precious.
" Oh Moses! what a plagney Egyptian suggestion," said
Augusta. "Now, I dare say, June Rose would call that
loud," she added, turning to Orchis. "Let her, if she
pleases. Pop likes me ; don't you, Pop?"
"Like is no word for it, Gussy; you are the joy of my
heart and the pride of my life."
"I know it, Pop. My Pop is a brick! I don't mean
baked clay, Orchis, but a pressed composition of good-
ness. Don't look as puzzled as if you were trying to
spell out a Greek lesson. There is. mother beckoning to
us, so I expect supper is ready. You'll stop of course,
Precious. It is a pity we haven't time to cook the
boughten woodchuck."
1irs. Blossom received them pleasantly, and Daisy
brought out all her playthings. Of course Augusta de-
tailed her reception at the minister's, which called forth
characteristic exclamations from each listener.
"I am not much surprised," said Mrs. Blossom; "I am
afraid the people have made a sad mistake' in dismissing
our dear Mr. Goodlove.  Doctrine is . all well enough,
but a helpful life is also good and necessary."

l

4


N;

214    OROHIS TAKES TEA AT .THE BLOSSUM9.
"I'll never set foot in the house again,"-said Augusta.
"Good for you, Guss!" said Mr._Blossom. " No tur-
keys shall go there Christmas ; no butter and0 cheese
Thanksgiving, shall there ?"
The pleasant sociability of the tea-table ; the jokes and
fun; the songs and waltzes afterward (Augusta's music
was a great feature in the Blossom interior); "The Shep-
herd Boy," which Precious Plunket whistled to her
piano :-Orchis took it all in :-the undressing Daisy, the
prayer at her mother's knee, upstairs where she was in-
vited for a little chat with the hostess; the rocking the
child to sleep; the crooning song of lullaby. It was like
a long-forgotten dream revived in her heart.
"I shall never forget this visit, never! "said she, hold-
ing the lady's hand at parting. "It has done me good.
My mother was as much to me as you are to Daisy. I
feel almost as if I had seen her."
"Thank you, dear, sincere, good child," replied the
matron. " I like you very much ; you sally come again,
0   and often."-nuhyosalcmeg
Precious Plunket walked home with her. " He looked
as if he wanted to," said Augusta, "and so I let him."
The school plan was discussed, elaborated, and settled.
" I am so glad you are really coming, " said he, when
they reached the gate. "I shall be sure of one earnest
scholar."
"Oh yes, I am earnest," answered Orchis; "I have
no time to trifle with so much to do."
"Jingo peltus ! or rather I should say, ahem! I was
going to remark that I should be glad when the time
really comes."
' "So shall I; I long to begin. - But I hope you won't
be too severe at first."

OROHIS TAKE'S TEA AT THE BLOSSOMS.     215
"Severe! . Miss Orchis, I could never be anything
but the kindest 4fthe kind to you."
"I hope so ; but I feel that I shall have hard work. I
don't know how to study."
The sisters were on the watch, and rushed down to the
gate with her first call.
"t Why, where have you been?" exclaimed Vashti;
we began to fear the minister had made awaywith you."
"I have been taking care of Miss Orchis," said Pre-
cious, lifting his cap, " and a very nice time I have had of
"A beau! what wi l happen next, Grisel?   Orchis
with a real live b i, all to herself, walking out of an
evening!"
Griselda made haste to seize on the child and impart to
her the news of her day; and their hopes and plans ran
so fa-r ahead of the present, as to find them all fairly
afloat on the busy ocean of life, paddling their own canoes
with the best and bravest.

V

I[


DR MATTOON AND THE PAPER CAPS.

CHAPTER XXII.

DR. MATTOON AND THE PAPER CAPS.

ALF an hour before the time named Colombia
knocked at the gate, with a huge bundle under
her arm-.
Griselda and Vashti proved their true womanhood by
the haste and ardor they put into the business of "trying
on," and the first eager question," How do I look?" came
simultaneously from each bright voice, and was answered
by admiring eyes before a word was spoken.
The minister enjoyed herself immensely. All her fac~-
ulties were alert, and her imagination was kindled by this
new phase of existence, so widely differing from any of
her former experiences. She gazed at one and the other,
listened .curiously to their talk, sharing their assurance,
laborating their expectations, and left them full of the,
coming evening, the wax flowers, and the sociability they
were to enter upon.
Colombia's pretty house was all alight when the visitors
were ushered into her cheery parlor, where twenty or
-nore young people were seated around a table upon
which were saucers of wax, rolls of green paper, and cut
flowers, some of which were being modelled, petal by'
petal, while vases of finished beauties were scattered' up
and down: roses, lilies of the valley, lupmes and rock col-

umbine.   About half the- party were young men, who
helped the work and the pleasure. Four' two ladies and
two gentlemen; were seated at a small table, and held in
their hands volumes of Shakespeare, from which they were
reading "Julius Cesar," for their own amusement and
the improvement of all who chose to listen. -At such times
as the hum of voices proclaimed that the audience desired
to use their own tongues, Columbia gave the signal Uf
rest, and much discussion of the play followed. Spirited
coinments on the text, anecdotes of actors, bits of history,
short poetical recitations, droll stories swiftly succeeded
each other. The minister and magnate of the evening
stipulated that the talk should hug the subject in hand
during the i-our of study, and she knew well how to carry
her point, keeping herself alert to hold the minds of all
where she willed them to fasten. When the play was
finished and the:especial theme dropped, the conversation
still ran oq(, for every one present had gotten something
to think of Qut of it; aid where there are thoughts, words
are sure to give them utterance.
This result was not jumped on, by any means, but had
been the offspring of time, and patience, and will, on the
part of the minister, who wasdetermined to bring up her-
young people to the ability to fill a whole evening agree-
ably, without gossip or the kissing games, which she found
the occupation of all gatherings when she undertook her
parish.
As. the play was selected beforehand,'and the readers
appointed, they were quite likely to look over it and pre-
pare themselves ; and outsiders were sometimes mystified)
to come upon these young folks, spouting their favorite
parts, which worked into their lives with a subtile force
the great poet is sure to wield.
10

N

217

c

,a
7
,j
i
{

1


fSg   )R. MATTOOJ AND THE P'APgg CAP

It seemed evident that the-new guests were expected ;
and though a little flutter of curiosity could not be, re-
pressed, there was only so much permitted to come to the
surface as to make them the centre of joyful welcome,
and places were quickly made for them at the large table,
and scissors and green paper thrust into their hands.
Vashti got seated beside a nice, fresh girl to whom Co..
lomnbia introduced her. ..'
" Zulah Pancrost, I have brought you a new friend ;-
now be sure you give her a good impression of us'Univer.
salists."
Griselda found herself next a young gentleman .who
was very busy cutting out paper caps from a pile of col-
ored tissues before him; and as' he rose to make room for
her, he stuck a finished one on' his head, of pale green
with crimson front,.that he might lift it in her honor as
he made his bow in a frank, easy way.
"Soyez la bien venue ma scour," said he ; "see, I am
so driven and burdened with work, that I will be thankful
for a coadjutor."
Griselda stared a little at his facile address, and only
wondered if that was the present fashion of gentlemanly
salutation.  Finding only courtesy in his looks as he
waited for her to be seated before continuing his occupa-
tion, she slid into the offered chair, and turned her face
toward him, and fixed on his eyes her handsome, well-
opened ones, attending closely to his conversation.
You see, Miss Dunwreath," he explained, "'we intend
having a Sunday-school festival at Christmas, and our -
minister has ordered that all the chorus boys wear these
caps ; as there are about fifty young whipsters to get into
uniform, somebody's scissors have got to snip nimbly.

DR. ff4ATTQO  . AND THE PAPER  'APB.  219
Now what a blessing wi'R be a partner who shall be skil-
ful with her needle."
" I believe I am able to be that partner," said she;
"only show me where and how to set the needful stiches."
"There and here," said he, deftly folding his pattern
into shape, and fitting it on his head, while he held the
soft, crumply stuff in place with his two hands, and smiled
down upon her. "There and here'; you perceive ? "
"Yes," she replied, "I think I understand. But how
very odd! I never heard of such a thing, to take such
trouble for trifles of no use or consequence. Miss Colom.
bia spoke of earnest work ; can this, tissue-paper foolery
be a part of it ?" she added, thinking aloud.
" Yes, Miss Dunwreath, this is a part of the work, quite
as necessary as the Sunday contributions, Scripture verses,
and Christmas hymns. You see we are to have a dramatic
opera, or operatic drama; your humble servant is engaged
in compiling it in all the odd times he can glean out of
his days, and the chorus do a good deal of marching and
singing. -Those long strips of paper on which my sister
Matilda is pasting gorgeous gilt stars are scarfs ; they go
with the caps, and we expect the effect to be rather bewil-
dering. The object and aim of our trouble is to tickle the
youthful mind, give the youths and maidens a happy
Christmas which they may remember. We are Catholic
(universal, you understand,) in centring our good times
in the church ; we expect in that way to keep fur youing-
sters among us; we nurse and fondle them that we may
hold their love. As they get their best and fullest enjoy-
ments out of our providence, we shall teach them also
what life is good for; coax them home when they wan-
der, give them comfort and strength. We believe in
banded labor and amusements; we aim at being true.


220    DR. MATTOON AND -THE PAPER ICAP.
churchmen in all things; we are willing our minister
should lead her flock beside the still waters, among the
green pastures, and we mean to follow her closely, as do-
cile sheep follow a good shepherd. Have I made plain
the work part of the 'tiss'ue-paper foolery,' Miss Dun-
wreath ?"
"Oh yes, I perceive there be many paths leading
to the same goal; if I can only get started'on the right
one."
As her fellow-worker watched her face and saw how
she finished her sentence with her eyes afar off, thinking
of something he had no business with, he did not interrupt
her with any questions, though several rose in his mind
which he would have liked to ask and get answered.
Miss Colombia's thimble tapping the table, asked si-
lence and attention presently, and Griselda's thoughts
came back to those about her, and she had time to turn
over what she had heard, as well as to examine her neigh-
bors, which she did with the intent scrutiny'of a fresh
coiner into a place among her equals.
After the next meeting-place was appointed, the readers
announced, and the business settled, the minister drew a
paper from her pocket and read a list of names, each of
which called out comments and jokes, some so purely.
local that she could not share them, but which were pleas-
ant on account of the mutual good feeling and interest
they showed.
"Zulah Pancrost, biscuit !" was the first annunciation.
" No, no! feed us cannon-balls," said one of the young
men.
" Cannon-balls !" retorted Zulah,. " we all know how
you would turn pale at sight of one."
"Very likely; but it is better to turn a little pail. than -

DR. .ATTOON AND THE PAPER GAPS.

221

to kick the bucket in trying to swallow the green things
you brought us, and tried to make us call biscuits."
"'Twould not do for you 1o eat green things, on the prin-
ciple that dog must not eat dog."
"I hear that pearlash has gone up, Zulah, since you
exhausted the supply," said Fritz Heartson.
"CHave you heard that the best use of a cane is to beat
puppies ?" rejoined Zulah, borrowing a bamboo stick
which leaned against the mantel, and administering a
sharp rap with it across the shoulders of the saucy joker.
"Order ! order ! " said Colombia,,tapping the table.
"But Miss Colombia," said Dora Sinclair, "is it not a
pity boys cannot cook? Fritz might fetch us such nice
home-made vanities."
" how vain are all things here below; how vain, but yet
how -fair, especially pretty Zulah Pancrost," answered
Fritz, bowing to his teasing neighbor.
"I will contribute a basl4et of miracles," said Matilda
Mattoon.
"Oh no, the age of miracles has past ; make us some
johnny-cakes," said William Underwood.
"Impossible," replied Matilda, very red in the face;
" we are out of molasses. I can't get trusted; Ihate long
bills."
"Squelched, William," said Fritz triumphantly ; "but
give us your hand; we will sympathize; you need to learn
a lesson. Never try answers with the soft creatures, who
are as tenacious of 'the last word as Snip's wife."
"Attention, young people !" said the minister at this
point. "Let me explain to our new friends, whom we
hope to enlist among us. We have a rule that all the
eatables shall be furnished by the members, each girl
cooking what she offers for our consumption: And we


222    DI. XATTOON AND T_'HT PAPER CAPS.
pay dear sometimes for the whistle, too, because we have
agreed that any eatable which was a failure shall be
fetched a second, third, and even fourth time if it is nec-
essary, till it is a success, by the same person, so as to
insure progress in cooking as well as mind and man-
ners-"
After the guests were, mostly gone, the Rev. Colombia
came around and clasped Griselda's fingers in her own
little wiry ones. "Well Grisel, how do you like it as far
as you have got?"
"Exeellently !" replied Griselda slyly ; "I desire to
get so much farther, though, as to find out the name of
the gentleman I have been pulling caps with."
"Just like my carelessness !" exclaimed Colombia,
"not to mention it. You see you were the object I had
in my mind, the rest came in second best. It is our good
Dr. Mattoon, the best fellow in the parish, the main depe-d.
ence and right hand of all my enterprises. le believes.
our creed, and he lives it out universally. Here, doctor! let
meformally present you to my friend, Miss Dunwreath,
whose acquaintance you have already made."
"Thank you, Parson! the name does not matter much,
especially a lady's, it so soon gets changed for the cogno-
men."
"Mine never will ; I shall go Dunwreath to my grave!"
said Griselda, with a mien of positive conviction.
"Yes sir, you may as well know at once, 0risel is go-
ing to study for the ministry, and head a parish."
"And have my name on the door-plate as you have,
Miss Johnson," added Griselda soberly.
"_And very well it will look too. Now here's Miss
Vashti; will. she also be a parson ?" asked! the doctor.
"No, sir; I shall have an office, and a night-bell, and

DR. .TifATTOON AND THE PAPER CAPS

293

set bones, and hack off limbs," replied she, so grimly that
they all laughed.
"Come, then, and learn  our trade with me; I shall
delight to lead so fair. a stuilent along the pleasant paths
she must tread. Together we' will walk the hospitals,
full of wounds and bruises and putrifying sores; together
we will prowl into churchyards, dig open graves, steal
the subjects, and I'll show her how to cut them up."
" Ugh! what a ghoul! You'll do no such thing, and you
cannot frighten her either. See, her cheeks do not pale;
110 shrinking, no tremor ; she is able for her work. She
will go to a medical school; we have settled it all this
evening; and when she gets fully launched into your pro-
fession, Dr. Mattoon, you must look to your laurels: she
will prove no laggard," said Colombia briskly.
 Griselda looked inquiringly at her twin,, who nodded,
smiling brightly in reply.
"Then the time is at hand when- we must part," said
she, reaching out her hand and clasping Vashti's in a
warm grasp: an action which for its true genuineness,
as.well as its simple grace, was remembered by the two.
others; such handsome girls, so strong, so vigorous, so
brimming with vitality.
"A pretty pair, aren't they," said Colombia admiringly.
"Too lovely by far to make ,a surgeon and parson of
to my mind," said the doctor. "Sheer cruelty to expose
tender-hearted students to such attractions. How can
they do lessons? you ought to consider."
"I do; it is eleven o'clock: I consider it quite time for
you to be off."
" I was loitering in the .hope that I could get a walk
with the surgeon and the parson; I want to talk science
by moonlight."


DR. MATTOON AND THE PAPE     -CAPM.
C   you rise early enough on the morrow you may
talk it by daylight. .To-night these girls tarry with me;              -                       -
I have much to say to thom; therefore begone at once !
"I hope you will not be so autocratic to amiable young
men when you get a house, Miss Griselda."
"I intend to take Miss Colombia for my model in all
things," replied she, laughing.
POOR, POOR OLYTIE
NE evening after supper Orchi
chair as Clytie was about leaving
"Stay a moment, sister; we
you."
Clytie turned her head slowly; "I
listen to anything you may have to say,
her ringing voice, "you are not worthy.
f"Nay, then, you shall stop, for I- wi
mind," said Griselda, also standing up;
it. We have finished this long, dreary cha
and will now open the door and go out i
bear its burdens with our fellows,and
among them. I intend to study for the m
Rev. Colombia Johnson."
"I shall be a surgeon," announced
here, all of you, I am a natural bone-sett
Pickng p the kitten, she quickly unjo
and laid it down on the floor piteously me
as swiftly pulled them in place again; th
galloped away as if nothing had happen
iny trade, Clytie; my interest, which I w
study and practice, and use for my kind.
"I desire to go to school," said Orchi
10*

- "
s rose from her
the room:
must speak with
do not desire to
," she replied in
11 tell yoil my
" you must hear
pter in our lives,
nto the world to
find our level
iinistry with the
.Vashti; "look
hinted all its legs
wing, when she
e little creature
need. "There is
ill perfect with
Speak, Orchis."
is in her clear


POOR, POOR CL YTIE-

tones, looking full in the face sq like her own, pouring
the eager glance from her blue eyes into the still black
ones; " I will take Candace with me."
"-Will you proclaim your shame from the very house-
'top? Will you shout to all.these people that your father
died a convicted felon in one of their prisons? Will you
join hands with his murderers? Look at them, smile on
them, accept his death meekly at their hands, make your-
selves one with them, living and dying ?"
"We will brave all, Olytie; we can no longer endure
this life. Bear with us, help us, won't you? " added
Orchis, appalled by the stillness of her sister's face, and half
frightened at her own temerity. "It is right ; there is no
reason why we should not. We cannot help the past; we
have suffered enough apart from all. We will struggle
among the many, rather than fade out and wither here
alone."
"We are all determined, Clytie," said Tashti firmly;
" we know there- is plenty of money ; we wait only for
your consent, which we beg of you to give us."
"That will I never do! If you will be fools, I cannot
stay you. When your eyes are full of tears, and your hearts'
of sorrow, I shall say,' It i§ as I told you.' Go your ways 
reap what ye have sown !"           -
"Oh, don't, Olytie !"'exclaimed Candace, throwing her-
self at her sister's feet, bitterly weeping, " don't look so
cold, so pale, so dead; 1 will stay, only let me love you."
"What is love ? " asked Clytie, drawing out of her
reach. "There is the money-chest ; I have no longer any
part nor lot with you, sin'e I cannot live here in privacy,
but must be subject to the intrusion of all idle people
you choose 'to bring about you. I shall leave-you as soon
as I can find a suitable place for my dead."

"That shall you never do, Clytie!" exclaimed Vashti;
"our father-is as much ours as yours; his grave is as
precious to nes as you. We will not have the holy dust dis-
turbed; we forbid it utterly!"
- None present ever forgot Olytie as she stood where the
slant rays of the setting sun glowed over her face, her
soft, flossy, yellow hair ruffled out of smoothness by the
shaker she had been wearing, her head turned aside from
them so that her adorable profile cut clear in the rosy
light like pale marble, and her set, hushed beauty so
moveless while they were tossed and torn by emotion.
When, after a moment's pause, she walked slowly away
from them without a look among the group, they kept
silence even while she passed through the garden with
her flowers in her hand, and disappeared on her way to
the grave under the wailing pines.
They gathered closer together, catching each other's
fingers, and speaking in whispers, and they sought com-
fort .in eyes full of tears, holding fast to their strong
purpose.
Not one of them felt any anger at their sister, only
truest, deepest pity; and "Poor Clytie!" was the last
murmured word upon their lips as they exchanged
"Good-nights."

226

22'

PO 01, POOR CL YTIR


GOODY RUDDOCK'S BLESSITN.

CHAPTER XXIV.

GOODY RUDDOCKS BLESSING.
S the decision was made, the leap taken, no time
was wasted before carrying into effect the pro-
posed changes. They all felt that their affairs
ought for the present to be managed so as to startle and
shock Clytie as little as possible,.an unspoken dread pos-
sessing them that she might go away from them alto-
gether; where or how none dared think. She showed no
change of manner, nor seemed to observe their occupa-
tions, scarcely their presence; continuing her daily round
of employmeits, always silent, always apart ; once or
twice, in meeting her, Candace fancied that her jetty
brows contracted a little, and her dark eyes gathered
blackness with the vivid glow beneath, which she had
:felt the night when she had so thoughtlessly appropriated
the azure crape ; but it might have been the child's ins
ward sense of guilt and injury, for no allusion was-ever
made to the scene in the hall, no question ever asked
after the garments, which remained hidden in the old
garret, where the trembling culprit had thrust them into,
their box.
With one accord the four young adventurers laid hold
on Goody Ruddock, wfolloing her to a distant field,

where she was busy among the brush she piled for burn-
ing. Hanging on her, kissing her, clinging to her,
while they let her know. the upturn in their road, the
leap over the wall of the fold they were resolved to take;
begging her help and the mother-love which had nursed
their luxurious infancy and patiently wrought for them
in their days of darkness.
She wiped her eyes and hugged them every one.
"I know'd it was a-coming, chicks," said she; " I seed it
afar ; I felt it as the old bird feels her nestlings' wings
a-growing under her. Don't 'ee flee so far away, sweetins,
that my poor eyes cannot follow ye ; there's rest for ye
all here, when ye're a-weary (patting her faithful breast),
warm arms and a true heart when ye're a-cold."
"Goody, Goody, you must not make us cry," said Can-
dace, burying her tearful face in the old woman's skirts.
"I'm half frightened already, and have a good mind to give
up, lock the gate, and go on weeding flowers and driving
cows till I am as old as the hills."
"Nay, my sweetin, you can no more tarry in stillness
when ye have learned the use of yer nimble feet to run in
the same path with..other girls and boys, than yer chick-
ens can be content in the coop. I'll niver make ye greet,
not I; 'deed an' I'll give ye good speed at my best, and
I'll keep all together for ye till ye need. Bonnie baby,
winsome, wee chick, that I rocked the last of all ; go, go;
and learn the things that other ladies know, and be happy
too, for ye will; sic rare girls should have heaps of
friends."
Goody Ruddock worked harder than ever, and at-
tended and watched over Clytie with dumb devotion, feel-
ing the lone woman's loneliness, doubly lonely as the
others took flight.

229"


GOODY RLTDDOCK'S BLESSING.

Griselda took counsel with the Rev. Colombia, and
through her good offices provided the children with
plain, trim school-dresses and aprons. Through her aid,
also, helped ~by Dr. Mattoon, who talked grimly of
tumors, compound fractures, and amputations, trying the
endurance of the embryo surgeon, Vashti decided on
her college, and before the first. of December she was
settled, and fully launched on her life-work. Last of all,
Griselda removed to the parson's house, studying and
laboring with unwearied diligence.
So Orchis and Candace were left pretty much to 'them-
selves, though Griselda went and came frequently, look-
ing after them, and always full of sisterly kindness and
good fidelities; and so, when the school-term opened, there
was nothing in the way of commencement except their
own dread of the undertaking.

CHAPTER XV.

TEACHER PLUNKETT AND HIS PUPILS.
HE first day of school was an ordeal for the young
teacher as well as his scholars.
When Precious Plunkett took leave of his
mother at the door, she kissed him; and, looking him
over with a careful eye, she said, using a formula she had
inaugurated in his very tender years, when even his
smallest needs were her hourly business:
" Good-by, my dear boy. Is your hair brushed? ?are
your teeth clean?$ have you got a handkerchief ? "
"Jingo Peltus I mother, what do you take me for?$
I'm not a boy any more. Look how you are lifting your
eyes to find mine, and how I have to stoop to meet your
lips. Good, little, tender, watchful mother, I'm  twenty
years old, and a school-master."
"Yes, my son, I do sometimes forget how you have
grown out of your pleasant childhood. I am often
tempted to weep for my boy lost."
" I should say so, mother ; I remember the hearty laugh
I had over the chair you so heedfully set for me, paring-
bee night, under the hall-window, where I've crept in
ever since I was a shaver, for fear I might fall and hurt
my little -self. Look ,t my legs; are not they long:
enough to step anywhere they want, without help?"

230


2      TEACHER PL UNKJITT AND HIS PUPILS
You are a well grown lad truly, my child," replied
the small matron, laying her tender, motherly touch upon
his strong, arm ; "aud with your budding honors so thick
upon you, I hope you will cast away the bywords and
boy-slang, or I am afraid your teacher's dignity will get
a tumble."
"jThat is as true as winking, mother. It will be an old
sticker, but I'm going to sit down on them; squelch 'em ;
brace up and waggle 'em. I shall talk only such things
as belong to the pedagogue. Now listen : you are the
school: First class, attention ! take your places ! toes out !
thumbs to the seam of your pantaloons! (no, that won't
do; I must leave that out; that's drill military). -Spell
baker. There! how is that fot high?"
"Fair, Precious, very fair; a little mixed in the orders.
I only hope you won't some day give them the poser' you
used to be so fond of projecting at me."
"What, Nebuchadnezzar, the old trump?  I'll. just
spell him once, mother, for the sake of the boy times I
am turning my back on this morning :xTwo turfs and a
clod, that spells Nebuchod;(a knife and a razor spells
Nebuchadnezzar ;/a new pair offslippers and an old pair
of shoes spells NL1ebuchadnezzar the King of the Jews.'/
Jingo !-no, I won't say that, but it truly makes me sad to
feel that the juice and fun of life is used up, and the rude
tussle about to commence. When the fellows go out to
slide, I must stop at my desk and write copies. I have no
longer any part or portion in foot-ball or snow-forts ; L
can't throw up my cap, and hurrah for our side; I can't
play truant, nor tricks on the teacher; I can't throw
paper-wads, nor write notes to the girls; -I must be digni-
lied and look big. Good-by, little mother ; your boy is
lost with a vengeance. -Oh ! by the way, you remember

TEACHER PL UNEJSTT AND HIS PUPILS.     28
I told you Orchis Dunwreath is fully determined to come
to school ?"
"Yes, Precious, I am glad of it. She must be a brave
gixl; I respect her courage."
"So do I. Won't you take some pains to make it easy
for her?$ "
"What can I do, Precious?"
"Y o might invite her here some Saturday, perhaps;
she knows almost nobody. You can't help liking her, she
is so pretty and so sincere. I wish you would ; I never
saw a girl so nice. The Blossoms made it very pleasant
for her."
Mrs. Plunkett looked at her boy while he talked, and
she thought "Pom Blossom is not my Precious; they can
afford it better than I. This darling is my all; I dare
not help him to a' misstep in his first youth that may
cause him to stumble forever afterwards."
"I must think about that a little, dear," said she aloud ;
"you know I never visit."
Though there were no more words exchanged, Precious
'felt that his mother drew impulsively away from the
proposition, and that something Orchis had said to him
was true:
"I must bear it as well as I can, the ban which rests
on us. There is no sin; but I think people refuse-to dis-
tinguish. I shall try to forget everything except my aims,
and the steps I must take to reach them."
They were rough boys, some of them, who assembled
in the school-room ; not a few nearly as large as the young
teacher, and many old playmates of long since ; and the
girls also had been punished, in short frocks and panta-
lettes, by being made to sit beside him. It was really an
embarrassing position to walk into, and Precious. was

.1


234   TEACHER PLUNTYKETT AND HIS PZ8I.S
obliged to pluck up all his manhood to deport hhiself
properly. He made them a little speech something after
this fashion:
"Well, here we are, scholars! all ready to begin our
winter's work. I don't pretend to know everything, but
what I do know I am sure of, and .I am not afraid to .tell
it; and if you all take hold with a will, I can make the
season profitable and pleasant. I mean to do it."
Here arose a little scraping of throats and scuffling of
feet among the boys in the corner, led by Alben Wraigg,
and William Wimble; I expect his little mother might
have felt nervous to hear it, as portending danger and
trouble for her son. Precious paused and looked stead-
ily at the group. "Yes,.I mean to do it," he went on;
"but if you want a row first, I'm ready for you: there's
half a dozen here whom I settled long ago in a square
scuffle, and I haven't forgotten the trick of my fists nor
lost the use of my feet in a back trip. I'm not quite
twenty years old, but I mean to have just as good a school
as if I was a hundred."
Orchis and Candace, Augusta Blossom, and Blush
Beach were punctual to the minute, and when the teacher
finished his oration, Blush led the applause, helped by
honest, fresh-faced Pom  Blossom, Abel Rose, and Tip
Crowfoot, and the huddle of roughs in the corner
measured them, and- concluded to keep the peace for the
present. Mr. Plunkett bowed his thanks, and requested
all, to select places to their liking; and when selected, to
keep them during the term.
Augusta and Candace sat together in one of the double
seats.' Blush of course chose the one opposite on the boy's
side, and Orchis sat behind them. When Mr. Plunkett
came down with his pencil and paper, making a list of

TEACHER PLUNKETT AND HIS PI1'iA

20

studies each desired to pursue with a view to classification;
Augusta felt obliged to repress the fun which wanted to
bubble out, and she and Candace replied quietly and
decorously, which was a pretty good promise for" the
future; they felt that the teacher had assumed toward
them the attitude he meant to hold, and they did no: ven-
ture to entrench upon it. Orchis replied simply," I want
to learn all which will fit me to teach."
"Mr. Dignity!" whispered Augusta, as soon as he had
passed, "don't he put on high and mighty ! but it won't
hinder my having some fun and playing tricks.; I can't
live if I don't."
"You will not plague him, will you.?" asked Candace.
"Not bad; but we must have a frolic once in a while.
He used to like pranks as well as me a year ago, and he
needn't for a minute suppose we can afford to play sober=
cheeks just because he has slipped into that arm-chair."
Mr. Plunkett was so zealous and earnest, that he car-
ried his scholars along by force of magnetism; he could
laugh too, when subjects of mirth presented themselves.
The regulation tricks were played upon him; as for in-
stance: one morning when he attempted to sit on his re-
volving-chair he landed on the floor, the leg being sawed
in two. But little enjoyment was got from the exploit;
however, because Teacher Plunkett arose, coolly brushed
his clothes, and remarked, "A very old trick, boys ; I used
it up myself years ago."  Again the school were nearly
suffocated by red pepper burnt on the stove. The teacher
remarked, "Your lungs are in as much danger as ours, so
we will try and bear it together;." and in the afternoon he
read them a selection from a medical book, upon the
structure and delicate functions of the breathing-apparat-
us, which interested them all, and the remaining parcel


236    TEACHER PLUTNXETT AND HIS PUPILS.
of pepper was thrown out of doors, the mischief-makers
finding that they had enough of it.
As our friends carried lunch, and stayed out the noon-
ing, Candace was taught by Augusta to play cards, and
was much fascinated by the game, which sometimes occu-
pied her when she should have been busy with Smith's
Geography; and out of this sprang an event in which
Teacher Plunkett got so decidedly the best of them, that
they could not forget it the whole winter.
Having observed that the two were tardy several suc-
cessive days after the call of the recess-bell, he carefully
watched, and perceived that they brought no chilliness, no
red fingers in with them, no short breath as from running.
He asked no questions, but kept a quiet look-out, and one
day he slipped from the room, and paid a visit to the
dining-places and entrys, but no truants were to be seen ;
yatttively listening, he seemed to hear voices in the loft,
a great, unfinished garret, used as a play-room on stormy
days. He ascended the stairs swiftly, and peeped through
the crack of the door ajar. There, sure enough, were the
naughty rogues, seated on a pile of shawls, playing cards,
and so extremely interested in the game that they failed
to hear the approach of the teacher, who paused a
moment, laughing all over.'
"High!" exclaimed Augusta, throwing down the card;
Low !" added Miss Candace, dropping another; :" Jack!"
exulted Augusta, showing the knave. Here masculine
hands descended upon the shoulders of the culprits, and
a deep voice said:
"aAnd I've got the game !'"
JuAhping to their feet in a mighty hurry, the blushing-
girls found the quietly smiling teacher, who held open
the door for their egress-.

TEACHER 'PLUNKETT AND HIS PUPILS.

23,T

"Please pass before me, young ladies," said he, bow-
ing.
Augusta wished to rebel and disobey, and Candace ad-
ministered a little push to her nose and looked saucy, but
the young man stood waiting so confidently, he looked so
tall, so certain of his authority, and so determined, that he
did not seem at all the same fellow who snapped apple-
seeds and made fun; and the upshot of it was, the game-
sters return ed sheepishly to their duties, and Teacher
Plunkett closed the school-room door, and sedately took
his place upon his rostrum.
Blush gu ssed, from the crimson cheeks of the sinners,
that something: had transpired in which they had come
off second-pest, and he kept reeling "shame " off his
crossed fore ngers at intervals all the session. What it
was he never discovered, for all parties kept the secret.
Augusta replied to his question that Mr. Plunkett had told
them to came downstairs, and they stared.
Candace paid off the master -somewhat that very
evening. As they started for home, they found them-
selves under dropping clouds; and Precious, being the
lucky possessorf a parapluie, stepped up to her as nearest
to him, and said;
" May I hold my umbrella over your hat, Miss Can-
dace ?"
"Oh, certainly, sir; just as long as you please," she
replied, lifting it ,from her mat of brown curls, and ex-
tending it at arm's length.
Augusta also got a fling at him.
"Have you made up your mind what character you
will take in the tableaux next week, Precious," asked
Blush.
" He intends to chalk his head and go as a billiard-


238    T AGHRR ?ZN    ETT AND HIS PUPILS.
cue,'"said MissBlossom. "I wish to congratulate Mr.
Plunkett upon the admirable choice."
"Thank you, Gussey; if I took my cue from you I
am afraid I might*lose my game," he replied good-iu-
moredly.
"Is that a joke, Candace, do you think ? " asked
Augusta, getting ready her handkerchief. "If it is,
it's like. your sum in decimals, where we failed to find
the point. However, let's be kind to the young men, and
laugh."
Then commenced a series of aggravating titters,
when the two hid their faces, and acted intense amuse-
ment, which broke out about as often as they. looked at the
teacher.
"Pray, what are you staring at my ear for.?" asked
Augusta, raising her face after one of these bursts.
"-Nothing especial," replied Precious seriously. "I've
been reading a curious book lately on progenitors; and
I can't help noticing signs in people I happen to meet.
'If in the rim of the ear, about one-third of the distance
from the top, there is found an enlargement of the edge
making an obtuse point turned inward, the person comes
in a right line from the ape or monkey ; if the point
shoots up, and is furnished with hairs bristling, seeming
to say, 'Be careful how you speak to the animal in this
cave,' you may hunt the person's antecedents in the fawn
or the catamount.'"
lhstinctively they all lifted their hands to their heads,
feeling for the "obtuse point" and "bristling hairs."
Reasnably satisfied with his standing at this point,
Precious was willing to drop behind by the side of Orchis,
whom he sheltered with the despised umbrella,' and to
whom he talked in a low'tone all the way to her gate,

CHAPTER XXVI.
uIUD BE  BUTTERFLY.
HE Dorcas society was appointed, by special re-
quest of the lady herself, at the house of Mrs. Ann
Sacrider; .and as we propose to conduct our
readers thither, we think it seemly, to describe a little
the hoeiand her habits.
A good many years, ago Mrs. Sacrider had been
brought in state to Cherry BrookZ, fourth brid  of a
wealthy widower. A pretty, simple, sillfycrai re, sin-
pering, uttering inanities, playing "Bonaparte's March"
and "Bounding Billows " on the piano, and singing in
a thin, piping voice, "I'd be a butterfly" and "Metw
by moonlight alone." In those days she had~ beautYful,
long brown hair, of which she was very vain, and it had'
been a standing joke to coax her to let it down or
her shoulders; and on one occasion a rude young fellow,
who ought to have known better, had tied her to a chair
by her abundant locks: a liberty which she easily forgave,
as it showed off so well her tresses.
That was long ago; now she was an old, forsaken,
faded thing, withered, untidy, left out of account, her hus-
band dead, his property spent, and she living by herself
in a little brown house close to the stub-tailed church,


2A0       "I'D BE A BUTTEIFLY."

living no one knew how. She cherished still the finery
she had reveled in as a bride, and appeared in the bon-
nets and collars of the last age; "Old Mother Sacrider,"
she was called, derided by the young, looked askance at
by the elders. A dreary ending to a blooming, pretty
time, is it noti Pray God to keep us all from living,
neglected and dying deserted.
She gathered up all bits of newspaper which came in
her way; she said she mostly got something worth keep-
ing out of them. But Old Mother Sacrider's ideas of
worth were peculiar to herself. She gathered likewise'
her fuel from' the church pile. On one occasion the
deacons made a raid on her cellar, and lo! it was piled
with their faggots; and of a while she was found picking
up apples or gathering potatoes from the fields of her
neighbors, and she was mostly let to keep her gleanings
(Young Harry Gill would have had a better time, you
know, if he had permitted Goody Blanke to pick her fuel
out of his hedges); she constantly attended evening
meeting, and prayed in her long and set phrases: "May,
we trust thee where we cannot trace thee !"  Aired
views in the-Bible lesson in the spectacle-class, as it was
sportively called, being made up of elderly females who
were obliged artificially to aid their vision.
Margery told Mr. Blossom they saw the truth through
a glass, darkly, to which the farmer replied:
"That depends, Miss Margery, upon whether they use
the old-time calvinistic Scotch pebbles, or the improved
new-school lenses."
When the announcement was made of the Dorcas at
Mother Sacrider's, a good many winks were exchanged
among the members.
Bhe had often before requested the favor, but had

"I'D BE A. BUTTBRFLY."          241
staved it off at the last moment, with the plea that she
"hadn't got up the front-room stove yet, or she'd a
leetle rather they'd wait till she'd made new sass;" but
at last all obstacles seemed removed, and the society was
actually appekted.
I chanced co be in the shoe-store the morning of the
important Thursday and while seeking vainly for a fit
among the gaiters, I heard a voice at my elbow, which I
knew at once,. expostulating with the good deacon, who
keepsthe church funds and sells us our shoes. She was
insisting that he did want a pair of chickens, and he pro-
tested that lie did not, having at that very period of time
a goodly multitude, eating hin out of corn in his barn,
because, to oblige his customers and keep trade- lively,
he had "taken in" their poultry instead of killing his
own, and furthermore he expected.a "beef-critter" that
very day, and couldn't use anymore "fresh."
" But," persisted Mrs. Sacrider, while she fitted a'
buskin upon her hand, peering at the stitches and
plucking at the quarters, "'I .want some shoes, and I
shall have to turn in chickens to pay. Members of the
same church ought to be accommodating, 'specially dea-
cons."
It was a question of time; and as she held out longest,
she did not go home unshod.
After she was gone, Deacon Pillhackle looked at the
fowls.
" I declare to goodness! ". exclaimed he whimsically,
"if the old case didn't get these hens out of my barn
after all! Well, I won't say nothing about it: I should
never hear the end on't. That was what was the mattcir
among them last night; I thought it was a fox, and sure
enough it was. She ought to be excommunicated.'

r


"1'Do BE. A BUTTERFLY"

"A fowl proceeding, Deacon Pilihackle, truly!V" said
The attendance' was fair, and from  many motives:
curiosity brought some, pure' fun others, pure goodness a
few; the Balquither sisters particularly made it an
occasion of fetching eatables to the lone creature, and
half a cheese, a pot'of butter went into her pantry, besides
the biscuits and doughnuts for supper.
The stove was not up in the front-room, and it was. a
little chilly ; but by the aid of shawls and cosies we man-
aged to keep tolerably comfortable.'
Mrs. Sacrider occupied herself in looking over the
work, declaring she was "too pesky beat out to sew one
stitch."  She was in her best toilette: a yellow lace cap
over her grizzly hair, and tied beneath her chin with
dirty red strings; a faded dyed lavender silk with iu-
mense gigot sleeves, one of her bridal gowns, rather
frizzed and frayed on the bottom, and carrying in her
wake divers small straws, chips, and other odd bits
she had accreted in her twenty years of wearing, a smoky
muslin! collar reaching to the shoulders, and a sash of
yellow ribbon tied jauntily at the back.
Effie McWhirter held in her lap a little reticule. of
russet leather, bound with polished steel and furnished,
with all pretty tries necessary to successful needle-work;
and Mrs. Sacrider, after looking at it a second, reached
over and took it from her lap, and commenced examin-
ing'it and commenting upon the articles. She opened the
needle-case; admired the gold eyes of the " John Eng-
lish ' -inside,. selected a cuple, which she pinned to
her lappets; next she took out the ivory-bandled scissors,
with which: she clipped der nails, screwing her mouth
into hideus' shape wjth every snip; and as she tlted

"T' BE A BUTTERFLY"

,243

backward in her chair, rocking comfortabUly, one, of her
new shoes caught her attention.
"There! I declare: if that. careless deacon. hasn?t left
out the top hole of my buskin!"     Immediately she
crossed her legs in' a manner more convenient: to herself
/ than agreeable to the beholder,. and, proceeded to wriggle
a passage through the thick leather with the delicate
points of Effie's scissors. Of course they both snapped
short off.
"Land !"  exclaimed Mrs.. Sacrider,   withdrawing
and sharply eyeing their abreviated proportions;. "must
be dreadful poor steel if they couldn't stand that little
punch."'
Effie's bloot became richer than usual, and she bit her
lip. It is a secret, but I will tell you the especial cross
it was to bear the spoiling of the handsome toy. The
Baptist minister gave her the reticule! Yes, she had got
that far. Old Miss Petingill said she was quite a mother
to the lad.. the had' heard of it and all the rest of the
spiteful comments upon her choice. But, Effie .Mc-
Whirter had made up her mind to marry the young
preacher, ten years her junior, and was immensely happy
in her future of work and economy, as0 a poor parson's
wife.
After the paring-bee; Mr. Oxbow visited. Balquither
again and' again, drawn to the. place' by its charm: of
.busy thrift and hearty cheer. A home. where. everybody
had something in especial to occupy and interest, a
hobby to ride, a favorite interest to push. The chatty
tea-table, surrounded with comely, healthy women, cov-
ered with good palatable food of which all ate with
appetite, where all talked at once, sometimes, it is true,
where personal predilections were not spared, hard. hits

'   -.-K '

:.2:42

(                Rc      ;ryr.
.,ti  '
,.


244."I'D BE A BUTTERFLY."
being exchanged in good-haior. He liked the piled
corn-cribs, full granaries, great pig-stys where portly
porkers grunted in indolent fatness, the lowing kine,
bleating sheep, the blustering hens.  He liked to tap
the bee-hives, and listen to the angry hum of the dis-
turbed honey-makers. He liked .especially, I think, to
follow Miss Effie to her. flower-house, and talk about the
blooms, and get a bouquet pinned to his coat by her
hands; he liked to look at her while she did it; he liked
to sing psalm-tunes from her "Carmina Sacra;" he liked
to sit on the same sofa and talk. In short, Rev. Mr.
Oxbow found out, before long, that he wanted to marry
the blooming maid. He invited her to comb down to his
chu rch, escorted her thither himself; and after they entered
the aisle on his way to the pulpit, he said ;
"Miss Eflie, I want a wife; I can never be a useful
minister till I am married, out of the reach of gossip.
I Want you; will you have me? Please answer at once,
that I may settle my mind on my sermon. Say Yes."
She said "Yes;" and as he' opened a pew-door, and
handed her to a seat, he replied, "Thank you; now I can
go to work with a will, secure in a good helper."
Of course the service was not mu(.h but a blur to
Eflie McWhirter, and her thoughts flew hither and thither
in a confused whirl. After a little, the thought that she
had gone and promised to marry a close-communion
Baptist thrust itself disagreeably upon:her attention.
But she raised her eyes to the man.; the bluest calvinist
couldn't more have pleased her in stature and mien. After
all, she needn't be dipped unless shieliked, and they had
not to live on doctrines as a steady diet; and she could
not find it in her heart to be sorry for the "Yes" she had.
so unexpectedly uttergl.

"I'D BE A BUTTERFLY-"    24

The sisters took it hard. The breaking up the band
of maidens, the new interests sure to intrude, the new
man about to be brought in, but above and over all, the
hard shell; that was a dreadful affliction to bear. One
after another they gave in; Effie's intended was so pleas-
ant, and Effie was so fond of him, and so happy in him;
and insensibly they began to appreciate his brotherhood,
pet and[ scold, advise and mother the young fellow as they
did Blush ; all but Miss Margery: she stood out and
stood firm. It was. a trial and a grief to Effie, who wept
some tears over the stoniness of her sister.
" Don't mind," said Mr. Oxbow. "It will swing right
soon." And it did.
One day Miss Margery came unexpectedly upon the
minister n company with Precious Plunkett, and she put
out her hand to shake the good warm one of her neigh-
bor, when Mr. Oxbow intercepted the American welcome,
taking the white soft fingers in his own, and keeping fast
hold of them.
"Sister Margery," said he, "you give much to the
church of your best ; give me the best of all: give me
Eflie."
She would not look at hiin at first, nor say a word, but
she had to give in at last.
" I suppose I must, as the silly child has set her heart
on you; but I hate your stingy close-communion. I shall
quarrel with you till you renounce it. You will have to;
you will be thankful to; we will be six to one, and are
able to talk you blind."
As Margery  knew no half measures, once she opened
her heart she welcomed the new pet in, and made lin a
home. And now the Balquither sisters were in the thick
of joyous preparations for an old-fashioned wedding.- So


246:I'7D BE A -BUTTERFLY."!
you see Effie did i obly to keep her-temper over 'the rape
of the reticule.
Our gyng folksfound out the new happiness pretty
soon after it was setled. They were walking home from-
school one night, when a man, driving a good pair of
horses in a light pleasure-wagon, stopped and asked the
girls 'to:ride.
"We have only to go to that 'brown house yonder,"
said Candace. a
acWell, jump up.; im going right a-past there, and I'll
drop you at the door."
so they climbed up, and the driver looked thought-
fully and rather admiringly at them ; Candace in particu-
lar, who was -fall of laugh and fun.
"IDo you belong to that house yonder?" asked he
presently.
"Yes.; or it :belongs to us."
" Well, I am beat, that's a fact. They :call you the
oughtyou were some gray-beaded, wrin--
old maids. I thought  ugra
kled creatures, and there you are as plump and merry as
kittens. Queer, an'tit"
"cWe are not responsible for other folks' ill-natuie,'
said Orchis.
"That's so; well, I'm glad I seen you, that's ia fact.
11l give you a ride every time I comq along. Been to
school, I see. That's right::get wisdom ;,and with all thy
getting,:get understanding. Hillo! there's one of them
McWhirters. There'll he one less old maid in that house
afore long. Them's a pair of lovyers, lif ever I seen one
.-that's a matheh"
It was Effie and. Mr. Oxbow, walking along the-road-
side; and assoon as Augusta discovered them she asked
to beset down. Bidding the sociable teamster Good-

"tI'D BE A  BUTTTERFL F.124

by," they all descended, and Augusta rushed up to the
couple and related the man's observations.
The minister was holding the hand of his betrothed,
and he did not let it go. " We are lovers, Miss Augusta,"
said he; "you may wish us joy."
Orchis stood a little apart, with an astonished face,
keeping her eyes fixed upon Effie, as if trying to read a
riddle.
"What are you puzzling over, Orchis?" asked Effile,
going over and putting an arm aroundher waist.
"I cannot understand it; how came you to change
your mind? You told me you were satisfied with your life,
and did not mean to marry."
"I was not satisfied with mine, Miss Orchis," :said Mr.
Oxbow, smilingly coming to Effie's aid, "and Effie has
undertaken to manage it so that I shall be."
Pretty soon Blush and Precious came racing up the
road, trying-their mettle, and Augusta lost no time in tell-
ing them the news.
"It is not a secret any more, Aunt Effie, and I may
talk about it. I congratulate you, sir; I am sure, noW
that you are as good as paired, the women will leave you
alone. You see I have heard how they pulled caps for
you, and you can make the prayer a Seabright minister
did after he got married':
"'0 Lord, have mercy on .all:the single ladies in this
congregation whose .matrimonial hopes have been re-
cently disappointed!
But to return tothe Dorcas at Mother Sacrider's. Tea-
time brought young people, and' also Dr. and Mrs. Hard-
bake. The lady made the round of the table with her
usual set inquiries.: "Glad to. see you this evening; family
all well? ",etc., and .the holy 'man was ingiediately seized


248

NE A BUTTE3RIJ4"n

upon by old Miss Petingill asking advice about the Sun-
day-school library:
"We're thinking about a new book just' come out,
Doctor- I understand it is an excellent volume, all about
the Holy-land, called' Innocents abroad.' The murder of
the innocents, I expect, or the destroying the first-born,
or something. It's very good pious reading, and Pamela
Groves has sent in 'Quits Works' aug Guy Fox's Mar-
tyrs' from her pa's library.  Ie died last fall, over
eighty and as spry as a cricket. You preached his oblo-
quy, I believe; didn't you, doctor?"
"I pronounced his funeral discourse, ma'am. Ile en-.
tered the kingdom like a shock of corn fully ripe. le is
an angel now."
"Yes, I heard it ; a little more soothing to the
mourners than the one you denounced upon poor little
Spriggy Bateman, when you said there wasn't any testi-
mony in the Bible that unbaptized  children went to
heaven. Pretty cold comfort for his ma. I heard she
cried herself sick fretting about it."
"Warm -dmfort you mean, don't you?" put in Blush,
who was passing the coffee.
"Pert, an't he, doctor ?"said the spinster, enjoying the
glower to which the divine treated the youth. "You
hadn't ought to speak so to the minister, Blush," she
added, pulling a queer face.
"I didn't mean any harm, but I don't believe in the
angel. Miss Petingill, I could easily fancy you one, yon
know; but Mr. Groves, and such old customers,-I don't
see it."
"You youPg dog'skin!" replied the spinster, grinning,
"if youei6s~4 veet at such an old creature as I am, I'll
engageth id like you. I must tell you what Tomniy

D BE A BUTTE#LY'"

249

Goodbye said about his grandpa. you see, Doctor, they
told him when the old gentleman died, that he was goin'
to be an angel. 'Well, he's an old angel if he is,' spoke
up Tommy, ' and they'll all know it by the puckers in his
face the minute he gets in.' Wasn't that cute, Dr. Hard-
bake?"
"Very wrong indeed, ma'am! The child of a minister
ought to know better; shows great want of proper in-
struction."
"Hold on till I tell you the rest on't. One day his ma
was out, and little Tommy went up garret' to a trunk
where she kept her nice things, and picked out a beauti-
fal long purple feather and a lace shawl, and tucked 'em on
and out he went, a-careering  up and down on his centi-
pede."
" Velocipede ! Alvira," corrected Mrs. Parish grimly.
"Do speak that word proper once in a while ; do I."
"Well, well, call it what you are a-mind to, Wilhel-
mina, only don't be interruptin' me all the while when
I'm tellin' the Doctor a good story. Yes, there he was,
peeling up and down, feather flying, when his pa caine
out of the study and 'spied' him. 'Stop, stop ! Tommy,
cried he, 'where did you get those things?'
"'Ask the cook,' says Tommy, putting down the road
like lightning. Well, at night his ma took himpupstairs,
and began to talk to him. 'What made you answer your
pa so, Tommy?$' says she.
"'Because; ma, I was going so fast that I couldn't stop
to think.'
"'Now I must whip you, Tommy,' says his ma. ' Take
off your jacket.'
" So Tommy took off his little clothes, and then he
11*


V~

250

(

"i' 3 BE A BUTTER '

stop d and looked up in her face very sober: 'Ma, won't
you het me pray before you whip me?'
"'.Certainly, my son,' says she, feeling quite glad that
such a pious wish had arisen in her little boy's heart.  o
he knelt down by the bed, and began to whisper to ilm-
self.
"'Now, Tommy !' says his ma, after she thou it he
-must have said all the prayers he knew half a doze times
over.
"Notyet, ma ; I hain't near done. I want to pray a
whole lot;' and if the little skeezeks didn't stick to his
knees.till his mother began to see through-his trick, and
get laughing, and he watching her all the while out of
the tail of his eye. He knew when the right second had
come a good deal better than you would, Doctor, and he
jumped up:;;and flung his soft arns around -her neck, and
said, as sweet as honey-:
"'Kiss your :little boy, dear mother. Don't hurt me ; I
will begood. I love yotr; don't you love Tommy;?'
Yielding to such blandishments on the part of a
parent is culpable weakness," said Dr. iardbake.
"'Spare the rod and spoil the child.'"
"Yes; you'd a liked the mischief out of him, I'll be
bound. Iexpect the Lord knows why He didn't 'put any
tender little bodies into your keeping,'though they do say
you've got a furrin missionary, fetching' her up awful
proper."
" We :mean to do our:duty by Christiana, ma'am," re-
plied the doctor.
"My land ! if I don't feel sorry for young ones that
has got to have duty done by 'em. I believe in my soul
that's the reason ministers' and deacons' children :are' so
likely to run a race with the devil. They get so much

D BE A BUTTERFLY"
duty when they're small, that they're sick on't forever
afterwards."
"Doctor," said Miss Margery, coming upat this point,
"did you read Mr. Oxbow's sermon on baptism which I
sent you?"
"Yes, ma'am, I looked it over."
"How did you like it'?"
"All wind,! all wind, ma'am; no merit !:no merit what-
ever."
Effie's betrothed was one of the family now; and Mar-
gery was far from  pleased either with the manner or
matter of this reply. The best orthodoxy in the books
couldn't excuse it. Dr. Ilardbake had made a mistake,
as he found to his cost after a while.
At the supper-table the ladies amused themselves with
slyly picking out their belongings, borrowed for the ocea-
sion.
"My napkins," said Mrs. Blossom, "My .tea-spoons"
said Mrs. Crowfoot; and so on till most of the articles
were recognized.
" We can afford to leave them to her," said Mrs. Plun-
kett. "She needs them and we don't. I shall not take
back my table-cloth."
Precious took pains to bring Orchis near to his mother,
and he looked on anxiously while the two talked. The ma-
troni, scanning the unconscious girl from her standpoint
as a possible wife for her boy, could not help being a trifle ..;
stately and forbidding, and the young fellow felt very
hot and uncomfortable. Orchis did not in the least share
his annoyance; she met her censor clear-eyed and sedate,
examining her, in fact ; comparing her mentally with the
other matron she knew, and Mrs. Plunkett suffered'in the
parallel. " Augusta Blossom bas a nicer mother than she'


2 2I'D BE A BU7TRPL

is," was the coneltision at which she arrived. If the young
man had asked her opinion during their walk home, in
which he was her companion, she would have told him
plainly.
Before the evening was finished, Mrs. Sacrider, being
asked by some of the young people who liked to see her
show offsat down to the little old tiny tinkling piano in the
corner, and played " Bonaparte's March," and sang "Pd
be a butterfly," in such a cracked, twittery voice, and with
such youthful tossings, as were quite mournful to witness;
too sorrowful for mirth, though some of the boys and
girls did laugh: looking only at the absurdity she was,
and not remembering her past, it seemed funny to them.
To me it was only sad.. And they-left her, when the Dor--
cas was over, a poor old faded woman, alone with her'
pickings and stealings, and her little mincing airs. A
good many' of them never saw her again ; but we are not
ready for that yet.

th.I l

CHAPTER XXVII.

UNCLE ZOPIER's GOOD FORTUNE.
NE night, not long after this, Uncle Zopher over-
took them as they were returning home from
school, and lie pulled in the colt to speak to
them.
"Jest the werry olie I was wanting to find," said he;
"I 'vas a-going up to Balquither after you, Blush."
"Were you, Uncle Zopher? Well, I feel very proud of
that."
" You needn't speak so loud, Blush," remarked the old
man; "I've been to an infirmity and got cured of my
deafness."
Looking him all over while he talked, Blush noticed a
certain smartness in his manner as he pulled up his stock
and held in his head, and also that he wore his Sunday
clothes, and was well shaved and quite smirking and
bright-eyed.
"That's jolly news. How is Sister Polly ; did you kiss
her since?
"Maybe, and may be not; anyhow, I've come over to
bid you to the wedding; she says she isn't afraid of break-
ing a blood-vessel any more bawling at me, and she's
concluded to have me."

252


2=: UNCLE ZOPHER'S UOOD F          TUNE.
Give us your hand, Uncle Zopher. Hurrah ! I am as
glad as glady! What a bully old couple you will be."
"gYes, Blush, I hope we shall get something out of the,
last end of life worth having. I rather calculate on a few.
good years before we turn up our noses and the tips of
our toses to- the roots of the daisies. They're powerful-
busy, Polly and Ann are, stoning raisins and. cooking
thin's. We want you and the little old maid (don't get
mad, Candace)-Polly's took a desput shine to you, I can
tell you; she says the way you air cunning, when you rub
up your nose and laugh,. is a caution."
"We'll be there, Uncle Zopher, and will bring along
the rest, of course."
Whobe they? "
" These : Orchis Dunwreath, and Precious Plunkett,
and Augusta, and Porn. We will just fill a sleigh, and
we'll have a bang-up time. For
The elephant goes round, and the band begins to play,
And the boys around the monkey's cage had better keep away."'
While Blush was kicking up his'heels and singing his
rhyme, Uncle Zopher said aside to Candace:
"'You see, we concluded not to wait for water-million
time after all, and will sing Balermy after supper."
" When is it going to be ? I shall 'like it so-much. It
was kind of Sister Polly to remember me; I want of all
things to see somebody married. Do they jump over a
b)roomnstick ?"
"bNot as I knows on. I shan't flinch,'though, if they
set me at it. It will be to-morry night at seving o'clock
presacely," replied Uncle Zoplher impressively checking off
the words on his -five fingers.
"Now I must fTid the .jiner: we ain't great meetin'-
folks, but we ain't wicked neither. I wish Goodbove was

1 TI TCLE., fXOPHTPuo   -fC . OLD   O.   'U.R.

25.5 "

here. I don't want to be tied up by a bear, that don't
know how 'to do anything but growl. I don't take no stock
whatever in old Hardbake-Dr. Blowhard, I call him."
" Why don't you go for Effie's dipper ? " suggested
Blush.
" Who's he ?":asked Uncle Zopher, not posted in neigh-
borhood news.
"The young Baptist preacher who is engaged to Miss
Effie McWhirter; he is a first-rate chap; and then Auit
Effie can come along,:and that will be jolly!"
"What.! one of the kind that .is going to live ina Kist,
with the lid down, up yonder. I don't like that kind of
doctrine, but I'd as lief give him my bushel of Maters, as
another, if you say;he is able to tie a hard 'knot. Jump
up, Blush, and come with me. I don't know where to go,
and I feel kinder bashful."
It was perfect sleighing, and as Precious drove a team
of the Plunkett raising, they were both 'fleet and hand-
some. Our young folks just filled a sleigh, the minister
and his betrothed driving out by themselves in .a Bal-
quithor cutter of ancient pattern, having:old foot-stoves,
and old buffaloes for warmth and comfort; bnt the su-
perbest kind of a-turnont could not have increased the en-
joyment of the lovers.
Six in a sleigh is close packing ; -but when 'did ever girl
and boy friends mind that for a winter evening drive?
Orchis sat up by Precious, who knew how to handle his
horses, and had plenty -of talk for the party besides. I
suppose 'there is scarcely a position where a nice-looking
young fellow shows to so good .advantage in the eyes of
a young girl, as when he manages successfully a pair of
mettlesome 'horses.


trCLE ZoPIIER'S GOOD FoRTUNE.
Orehis sat with her face half turned toward her com-
panion, thinking about him, admiring his strength, his
erect, well-knit figure, the tall fur-cap on his head, the
beaver gloves on his hands, his skill and care with the
frisking animals, who wished. to shy and jump and
prance, inspired by the clear frosty air, the gay voices be-
hind them, and the chime of their tinkling bells.
This was Orchis' first sleighing, at least since the far-
off childhood, which was only a dream. Though the
driver's head was often turned backward, replying to the
sprightly banter of those behind him, it was not turned
away from her, and she was too wrapt in the new pleas-
ure to desire much speech.
The first thing theydid, when they reached the queer
old. house, was to lay out their gifts for the bride on a
japanned tea-tray, which was an ornament-of the beaufet
in the corner, and Candace presented them with a little
speech; and I believe the surprise and pleasure of their
reception was the pleasantest feature of the evening to
the prim creature, who had scarcely ever had a present in
her whole life.
Precious gave her a finger-ring, Blush a - brooch,
Augusta the chromo of pansies lying on an open volume of
Shapespeare, which we all know and admire, especially
the lovers of pretty Ophelia and her thought-flower. Each
of the Baiquither sisters sent an offering. Margery, a copy
of "Saints' Rest ;" Elevir, a dozen .fancy holders; Ara-
belia, a pair of knitted shoes ; Gynet, a snuff-box of old
Scotch make, curious and handsome; Effie, a pretty pin-
cushion, with " Zopher " and '"Polly " pricked into it in
bright-headed, pins; -and Candace and Orchis, baskets of
the loveliest fresh flowers. They made-Goody-cut them so
carefully as note to disturb Olytie; and never did roses

UNCLE ZOPHER'S .OOD FORTUNE.

and buds brighten a quainter house, thrust into jugs,
smiling from old cut-bottles of a hundred years ago.
It was a queer wedding of queer people, who joined
hands after almost a life of friendship in company and
yet apart.
Sister Polly looked like Sister Polly; she could not
loklike any other woman. The knot of hair at the
back of her head was pulled into as small compass as ever,
her gown was fifty years older than herself;-but her small
eyes twinkled brightly, and she was as sharp with Uncle
Zopher, as anxious about the "pawky cake," as if she
had been only a second, instead of the lady of the even-
ing.
The groom was attired in a swallow-tail reaching to the
calves of his broomstick legs, and the brass buttons, sup-
posed to rest at the waist behind, were under his shoulder-
blades; his trousers were a trifle short, but his shoes shone
like ebony, and his face was as cheery as-a well-kept rudtly
winter apple in March.
It was queer, too, the fresh bloom, and the fresh growth
in the old smoked rooms. Granny Munson sat in a cor-
ner decked in her best, moping and moving from  her
gyrating chair, in which she had been brought bodily
by David and Jonathan, to the danger of their hair and
flesh, for she dabbed and grabbed at them all the way, as
she did during the festivity, at- all strangers she could
reach. Mark Munson, mean, sneaking, always wipinig
his rheumy eyes, and seeking for something on the ground,
was rather set at by Mrs. Sacrider, who had dropped in
uninvited, and pitched on to the bachelor, mincing and
speechifying.
Augusta heard her say, "I wish you had a piano forty
here, Mr. Munson; I should like to siing 'I'd be a but-

F                       v j. i:J V
r''          1                - z
;   .
'                            '
=fi  .


258

L
U]L'WLE ZOPHER'S GOOD FO.RTTZ47I

terfly' for you, and play 'Bonnypart's March.' I dote
on music:; don't you, Mr. Munson?"
The tallow candles guttered and flared over the supper-
table, on which were the five kinds of cakes which had
kept Aunt Ann and the bride on the alert the whole week
previous, and been anathematized as pawkyy " scores of
times; -there was candy in tumblers and preserves in
bowls; there were biscuits as. large as loaves of bread
and coffee as black as mud. But all had a good time, es-
pecially Mrs. Sacrider, who was attended by Mark Mun-
son, and ate like forty 'thieves.
"Look !" said Augusta, ":I believe that little old wretch
is sweet on Mother Sacrider; see him wink when he looks
at her ! What a pair of beauties they are'! It makes one
sick- of ever getting spoony, doesn't it?  There goes the
fifth lice of sweet loaf.;I left off counting the biscuits
long ago."
*" They would like 'living in the land of Cockaine, I
think," said Mr. Oxbow, "where all the houses are roofed
with cakes."
"I believe they are making up-a plan for living in the
same house. There is a-chance for another wedding-fee,
but you won't get it,; she-is one of Mr. Iardbake's lambs.",
"We must not selfishly desireto appropriate all good'
gifts to ourselves, Miss Angissta; -'Let me live harm-
lessly.'"
Just then Mrs. Sacrider. pranced up, followed 'by Mark,
who did not quite come into talking range, but stopped
to :peer:at her and' the floor, as if uncertain where he
'might find what he sought.
"Old 'maids'll be skerce after a while, Effie, if this goes
on, won't they?1"
"      tPity the widders wasn't skercer," said Aunt Ann,

~'WiULT  iOPHER'S UUWD FORTUNE.         My
much disgusted with the prinking and wihiknPof the
antique dame.
"Perhaps they will be before long," replied Mrs. Sacri-
der, smiling with a grimace, which was a horrible mem-
ory and counterfeit of her youthful charms, at Mark Mun-
son.
"She's hooked a gudgeon, I do believe!" said Sister
Polly, who was everywhere, hearing all the talk and
amazingly enjoying the fun of the young people. "I
couldn't wish her a worse wish than that she may get
him. The-e ain't much abomination that that panky
Mark don'tknow.: Maybe she thinks two can steal more'n
one."
"You do not -speak ill of matrimony, I hope, Sister
Polly, do you?" asked Blush.
"I hope I'm too .smart to call myself, a foul," replied
she tartly.
"That's right; we all mean to find our mates. We
thank you for your good example,".remarked Precious,
who observed that'the bride's sharp eyes wereaixed on him.
"Do'you go to school in Cherry Brook?"sked she.
"Oh no, 'Mrs. Patterly."
"That's you, Polly," said Zopher, nudging his wife;
"sounds good, don't it
"Shut up! you pavky critter," remonstrated Sister'
Polly; -"there's old Sacrider wriggling her head at you
like an old blue racer. Don't make yourself a laughing-
stock. for fools,;" but she grinned well-pleased, notwith-
standing her rebuke. ."iow'd-ju say? " she added, turn-
ing to Precious, while she rearranged the folds of her'
handkerchief, which she carried; or wore, across her arm.
"I do not attend 'school, ma'am;  am -the teacher.
These young ladies are my scholars."


60    ULT.   ZOPNEIS -GOOD- FORTUNE
Seholam! What do you teach 'em, pray ? To raise
articularNed?"
Blash meanwhile had gone up to. Candace, who sat
apart with- the black cat in her lap who gave Sister
Polly so much trouble by his thieving propensities.
"You look very thoughtfult," said he ; " upon what do
you muse?"
"Pussy mews; I can only purr upon occasion," she re-
plied.
"Well, then, what are you so soberly thinking
about ?"
I calculate the wedding-prospects for the rest of the
old maids."
" Weddings are nice revels; it is good to frisk it in
brave attire like Alan-a-dale, Sister Polly, and Mother
Sacrider-Don't you think it is almost time to get the
Sweethearthut on the good staff ?"
"Not yet, Blush ;:" Candace gave her nose a little push;
"I haven't seen the ring you foretold me. hark! what
is Mr. Oxbow saying to Effie? 'I think I must cut the
cake into as many pieces as Medea cut Abatros;' I won-
der if that is the way he makes love. I always supposed
ministers courted out of canticles."
"Let me show my fashion, Candace ; see, here is a posy,
which means everything."
"Flowers mean a good many things to me, which you
don't dream of," answered Candace gloomily; " I wonder
I don't hate the sight of them!"
" You mustn't say that, Candace, because it was among
the flowers that I caught my first sight of you."
"'And a nice scare you gave me," replied she, will-
ing to change the theme she had inadvertently intro-
dncedl.

UNCLE ZOPHER'S GOOD FORTUNTZ.
".Did you ever hear anything to beat th'
wouldn't have missed it for a great deal.'  B
" I studied yesterday about Egyptus, so
had fifty sons, who were married to their fifth
daughters of Darius, his twin brother."
"Do you hear that, Mr. Oxbow? Don't you wish you
could have taken that wedding-fee?"
"No, Miss Candace ; I want all my couples to turn out
well."
" Didn't those prosper?"
"The poor husbands, all but one, were murdered by
their wives before the marriage was twenty-four hours
old.'?
" Shocking ! So much for getting tied to cousins. What
did you say, Uncle Zopher ? "
"I want you to come and sing Balermy, Candace;.I
can't play my bass-viol any more, but I can sing like a
bird ; and Aunt Ann has talked. so much theology with
Deacon Bodds, that I feel as if everybody that wash't
damned was a-goin' to be."
"You see, Aunt Ann," put in Blush, " there will be a
great multitude whom no man can number; which is a
consolation, because, if theycould be numbered, we might
.get counted out; but} as they can't be, we'll manage to
slip in somewhere."
"Keep your head over your plate, and don't take too
big mouthfuls," said Precious to' Orchis, who sat next
him.
" You perceive the young man teaches manners," said
Augusta to Sister Polly, while Orchis fixed astonished
eyes on him.
" I was only repeating what my mother used to say to
me. I was once offered a pony if I would keep my head


/,

2g2

UNCLE ZOPHIERS( GODFOR7TNE

over my plate a whole month at table without being
jogged, and I lost the pony."
"What, wondrous sounds are those we hear."
"I suppose- that is 'Balermy,' but it reminds me of
the title of a tract I read once, called 'Hoots in the wil-
derness-of a lost soul."
It was time to go home. They all took leave of the
wedded pair: Sister Polly said she was "afeard they'd
had a pawky time," but they all assured her they never
had enjoyed an evening more.
Mark appeared at the door with the colt in the old cut-
ter, and gallantly-helped Mrs. Sacrider into it; she again
lamented her inability to sing "I'd be a butterfly," and
he was overheard to promise to tarry with her long
enough for the musical feat to be accomplished.
While we are on the topic, we may as well say that,
three days after, Mr. Munson epused the widow, Hired
by supposed hoards she was conjectured to have hidden.
How they sped we shall have occasion to tell after
a while.
Orchis sat by Precious on the driver's seat; he had
been the life and soul of the party, almost outdoing Mr.
Oxbow in fan and frolic, who kissed the bride and
 frisked about in the most unclerical way.
"Well, I hope my wedding will be as pleasant as this
one," said Mr. Plunkett.
"You won't wait so long, I dare say," suggested Blush.
"Jingo peltus! no, I shall get a wife just as soon as I
can keep one ;' wouldn't you, Orchis?"
Orchis was looking pt him, wondering who she would
be; and he turned and whispered, laughing, "I haven't
forgotten who named the apple-seeds for me one paring-
bee."

UNCLE ZOPHEkS? GOOD FORTUNE.

Neither had she, it seemed; for a faint color stole up
in her cheeks with the reminder. It. was exceedingly
pleasant to be reminded, and the: fact that Precious was
not oblivious of that wonderful festivity, when she had
first seen him, quite warmed her heart. She had felt
fresh courage in the certainty that she had really gotten a
friend.
There are some.sleigh-rides'which we-always remember;
this one Orchis never dropped out of her recollection.


MISCHIEF AMONG THE ROSES.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

MISCHIEF AMONG THE ROSES.
ACH   morning Orchis fetched   a bunch of
flowers to the teacher, and each evening she
waited to walk and talk home with him. But
Candace also waited for Blush, and Augusta and Porn
were generally of the party. A wonderful world was
widening for this single-minded girl, who thought straight
on to her goal; and though she talked less than any of
them, I suppose she more richly enjoyed the talk than
all. Of course her daily offering was notided and com-
mented upon, and Alben Wragg and Oynthia Redmond,
and some others said some things which were 1ot proper
things' to say; but Orchis, not knowing the t lkers (she
was of the sort who cannot mingle with the many, are,
never liked but by the few), studied and walked on in
happy unconsciousness that they ever looked at or thought
of her any more than she did of them; living her full-
pulsed life; growing every day in knowledge and
fruition..,.
Candace fought some battles on the "old maid" stigma.
For a while a huddle of children, coming from the mill,
shouted after them, every time they met, the, hated
epithet, to which they occasionally added' "Crazy Jane

from Nigger Lane," by way of variety, pointing to her
mat of curls, which any damp day set up in a spirited friz;
and one morning they obstructed Orchis' way with their
dirty forms, while they imparted to her this charm.g in-
telligence : "You're awful humbly; you're awful humbly,
soyou are;" which did not affect Orchis in the least; but
caused Candace to lose all patience, and she turned and
shook the foremost by the shoulders with all her might.
"Don't you know any better than to insult a lady ?"
After that her question was thrown back at her in chorus,
till Blush took it up and thrashed the boys and threatened
the girls, so that they no. more dared to open their
mouths.
As much to freshen himself in the language by
practice, as to help them, Precious proposed giving Ger-
man lessons to the scholars during the noonings. No one
but Orchis wished to undertake the extra study, and so
they two were left to themselves, while the rest strolled
out, or fought forts, or went skating.
"1 don't know much about Dutch," said Precious ;
" but I can give you a start, Miss Orchis, and you can
work on by yourself when once you are set on the track."
Orchis was delighted, and lost not a .moment, scarcely
taking time to eat her lunch. She made good progress,
but unfortunately she drew to herself the attention of ill-
natured scholars; and her studious ways, perfect lessons;
and. good understanding with the teacher were salient
points of attack. "Favoritism,'' that ready complaint of
all lazy drones who don't want the trouble of working, was
thrown at Precious, who meant to be just as just as
Justice herself ; and the laggards winked, and pulled ugly
faces over her" ten" reports.
"Dreadful sameness about his remarks -!I'd put her
12

2C5

4


MISCHIEF AMONG THE ROSES.

MISCHIEF AMONG THR Q5E.

down something else once in a while for variety," said
William Brimble.
"Oh yes; it is easy enough to see who is in hi good
books," answered Cynthia. "I would try to keep it to
myself a little, if I were he."
Meanwhile the teacher and pupil went on their way,
busy and happy, till one day she wanted a certain pen-
knife he owned and had lent her occasionally; -so she
undertook to try her skill at composition in the Teutonic.
tongue. She commenced her note "Herr Plunkett,"
finished it with much care and labored appeals to her die-
tionary; and looking it over.with pardonable pride, she
folded, addressed, and sent it up to the desk by a small
girl who neighbored her.
The teacher paused in his recitation, read the missive
under the eyes of his class, smiled at the writer, and
sent the article by a small boy; winks were exchanged,
and sniffs behind books and big eyes were made, of
"which the objects were oblivious.
That night when the waste-basket was emptied,
Cynthia Redmond, who had watched and seen the bit of
paper thrown there, fished it out, and hastened away with
it to a group of friends.
"Look-a-here !" said she, "lere's a nice kettle of fish!
Love-letters a-goin' between the little old maid and the
teacher. I knew what it was when I seen him get it, and
smile that way at her, so bare-faced, right before our own
eyes. I suppose they thought nobody could see but them.
I guess some folks are as wide awake as others. Dear
Plunkett Well this is beautifulI!-fetching flowers every
morning, courting all noon-time, and walking .home,
together every night.. I'll tell father! so there!'
Before long Precious began to hear side-remarks, and

he saw grins on several faces when Orchis walked up of
a morning to offer her posies; and he would have liked to
ask her, for her own sake, to omit the attention, buts felt
shy of alarming or troubling such honest delicacy as
hers, and hoped she would herself find out somehow that
the pretty flowers were provoking unseemly merriment at
her expense. She looked very glad and happy, when,
school over, the teacher came down to her desk and they
began the Dutch lesson. Not accustomed to expend
thoughts upon the attitude of her neighbors, she gave few
to their appearance now; and if she observed at all the
shrugs and glances, she set them to the usual account in
her mind, the "ban" and the old maid," and turned her
attention from them. She did not-wish to be disturbed
in her duties or hindered in her progress by some human
beings in whose lives she found no meaning.
One morning Teacher Plunkett was surprised by a note
from the committee, requesting, or ordering, him to their
presence. He obeyed, wondering what might be in the
wind, and testily resolved to make no change in his
plans of instruction, whatever old granny notion they
might have picked up.
"If I were forty instead of twenty, they would not dare
to thrust their advice upon me," he thought, as he looked
around upon the solemn conclave.
Mr. Redmond led the charges. "Young man, we are
sorry to hear of your conduct. It must be stopped, or you
must leave the school!"
My conduct, Mr. Redmond!" replied Precious, turn-
ing very red; "please explain yourself'
I am going to explain; we sent for, you for that ex-
press purpose.  You are charged with lightness, levity,'
flirting, writing love-letters to girls whpen you ought to

267

r.

; 266

_       _      -                r
'                                     _t:. ,


268,

2MISOIIEF AMONG THE ROSES.

be attending to your teaching. I always said you weren't
the one; set a boy in such a place, and what can you ex-
pect?"
"I don't know what you expect, Mr. Redmond; I know
what you have had in my case: steady hard work every
day since I took the position. If I had been as old as
you are, I couldn't have drudged more than I have. The
rest of your speech is Greek, which needs interpreting.
I hope you know what you are driving at !"
"You don't deny the old maid's fetching you flowers,
I suppose put up so as to talk; nor her sending you love-
letters beginning ' Dear Plunkett ' $-'
"Love-letters ! I never got one in my life, in school or
out of school, beginning Dear anything. As to the blos-
soms, they are nobody's business; if a lady chooses to
rifle her green-house to adorn our study-place, what are
you going to do about it?"
"Take care, sir ; best not be sassy to the trustees. My
Cynthia seen the note with her own eyes ! Now what do
you say?"
"I should like to see it with my own eyes, that's all ;
will Miss Cynthia so far-oblige me?"
"I will obleege you, sir. I am very sorry to have to
expose you before the committee, but duty is duty; we
must not stop for neighbors or private feelings when we
hold offices of public trust. There, young man ! you
ought to blush and be ashamed of your conduct, instead
of putting on such brass !"
Ppor Orchis' German composition, in a fearfully
cruhed state, was produced and handed around, and all
shook their heads over it. The address was all they were
able to understand, but that was enough; and one, after,
another took up the words "Dear Pluukett" before the

accused was permitted to get a sight of .it. When at last
it travelled around to him he burst out laughing.
" If the charming Cynthia had consented to be one of
my class, instead of wasting her noonings on Alben
Wragg, she might perhaps by this time have found out
that '" Herr" is the Dutch for Mister, and the balance of
this note, a request for a pen-knife, which one of my
pupils wrote to test the value of her lessons, and which
gave much pleasure to her teacher as a perfect exercise.
Miss Cynthia will certainly come into the rank she is so
fond of filing Orchis Dunwreath in, I am afraid, if she
never gets any warmer love-letters than this one. I might
go further, and add that unless she leaves off mischief-
making, she stands a poor chance anyhow."
"That is nothing to the case, young man; it is your
voracity which is the matter now, not my daughter. It
looks very much like 'dear,"' added Mr. Redmond, twist-
ing the note up and down and peering at it. " I believe
"Do you doubt my word?" thundered young hot-
head. "I resign immediately. Get another teacher; I
will have nothing more to do with you!"
"What is all this?- What! what !" said Dr. Mattoon,
seizing Precious by the arm as he was striding out. He
had been too busy to come earlier, and had no idea of the
business in hand.
" I'm going to quit, that's all; I will not stand being
called a liar by a- lot of ignoramuses who don't know B
from a bull's foot."
"Plunkett ! Plunkett! you are angry, my dear boy;
just stop one moment, till I hear what this is all about !
Resign? No indeed! I won't hear of such a thing. We
never had such a school, and it must be a very pressing,

ISUfHIEF AMONG TH ROSES.

2A9


7   MISCHIEF AMONG THE ROS                    IS

reason, and a cogent one too, which shall force me to re-
lease you from your engagement?"
"I am accused of getting love-letters, Dr. Mattoon!"
roared Precious, sticking out the bit of paper with a
whimsical mixture of drollery and rage. "There is a
specimen of them. When I tell them    plainly, word
for word, what is written there, the fools won't believe
me."
"Tut, tut! Plunkett, not fools! you don't mean fools;
you mean trustees."
"Yes, sir, trustees; and you can use my word or yours,
just as you like ; mine covers the ground."
Dr. Mattoon laughed heartily after reading the inno-
cent scrawl. He laughed as much at the appearance of
his favorite, whose hair stood all ways, whose broad shoul-
ders were thrown back, and whose eyes glared at the
board-it .was as well they were old men: young ones
would have got their change on the spot-as at the ri-
diculous mistake, and the solemnly puiturbed faces of his
accusers, whose minds were much muddled on the ques-
tion. ie made-haste to explain, and confirm Precious'
statement ; but the teacher would not hear of going on;
"No, he would resign straightway."
"You shall not !" insisted the doctor. "Take a little
time to consider; yon do not wish to leave a good work,
so well begun, till you have finished it. You will not
drop your first enterprise, abandon your first post, will
you, my boy? You have not taken that view of the case,
I see ; it is the true one. You can't help excusing the very
natural error into which my brothers have fallen. It does
look like dear to them. So push right on; let us enjoy
your success, and bid you 'God-speed' in your next un-
dertaking."

"Not with that lie thrown at me; they must take it.
back, Dr. Mattoon!"
"You are quite willing to set right your little mistake,
of course," said the doctor, turning to the others.
Mr. Redmond clutched his hat, and pulled it over his
eyes with both hands. " It looked like 'dear,' didn't it
now, Plunkett; you must allow that. I don't see any use
in jargon that the dog can't understand."
"Dogs can understand Dutch, if they are taught it,
and so could you, sir."
" Well, I wasn't; I ran my own farm at your age, and
I done it like a book."
"I move we drop it," said John Burce.  "Let the
young man go ahead and keep our school; mistakes will
happen sometimes in the best of families. I for one don't
bear malice."
. It ended in Teacher Plunkett's resuming his occupation
the following Monday, but he felt injured and sore; and
when Orchis went up to his desk as usual with her floral
offering, Mr. Plunkett bowed coldly, while Cynthia Red-
mond audibly tittered, and the teacher blushed before
them all, and was very angry inside because he could no
better command himself.
"It is a pity to spoil so many of your roses for me,"
said he. "I would advise you to let them bloom at home
hereafter."
" But I like best to bring them here, where you
can enjoys them," she replied, laying them before
him.
"Really, I am not worth the trouble ; I don't care for
nosegays."
"Since when?$ " asked Orchis. "You always seemed
to like them, and you said they were, sweet and lovely,

.1[iIJVc IRP AMONG THY    (  1

toto

271.


272

MISCHIEF AMONG THE ROSES.

andarnade a bright spot in the dull school-house. You
said you would have a green-house attached to the build-
ilg, and appoint me flower-girl, if you could do as you
wished. You said the heliotropes were as blue as my
eyes, the forget-me-nots meant that you should always re-
member our pleasant noonings, and the rose-buds were
as fresh as me."
"I must have talked a lot of nonsense, then," he an-
swered sheepishly. ." I thank you, I am sure;" and " I'll
look out mighty sharp how I ever say any more such
things, Jingo peltus!" he thought to himself.
As Orchis still lingered by him, trying to make him
out, he remarked rather shortly, "Excuse me, but I must
ring the bell; time is up."
Orchis returned slowly to her seat, and that whole
morning she hardly took her eyes off the teacher. Every
time he looked her way she was studying him; she made
no concealment; she was perfectly open about it, just
neglecting her tasks, leaning her chin in her hand, and
conning him over.
Poor Precious was constrained and out of poise under
her scrutiny. Blundering in his classes, stammering in
his explanations, knocking down ink-wells, throwing off
books, and tripping his long legs under his revolving
chair. As for the blossoms of discord, he just pitched
them into the waste-basket out of hand.
Precious was a noble, good fellow; he liked Orchis very
much indeed, but he felt provoked and annoyed with her
for making him ridiculous; and, man-like, he wreaked
his annoyance on the innocent cause. He had too little
experience and savoir faire to take a happy medium;
and while intending to be easy and indifferent, he was
gruff and ungracious.

I

MISCHIEF AMONG THE ROSES.

273

. z

- When the session was over he approached hurriedly
her desk.
"I must be excused from the'German to-day," said he
without looking at her. "I am going out on business."
Stay a moment," said Orchis; "how have I offended
you?"
I am not'offended, Miss Dunwreath ; I am in haste."
So I see," replied Orchis; "do not let me keep you."
She looked after him till he- disappeared through the
door. Then she sat still and thought of him.  how
pleasant he had been at the paring-bee, at Sister Polly's,
on the sleigh-ride, during the lessons, through the home-
walks; how friendly, how kind. Then she arose and went
to the desk to fetch away the poor blossoms; they were
not there-oh yes, there they were in the waste-basket,
wilted, withered. She picked them out quietly, and going
forth on the beaten snow-path, she tossed them as far off
as she could on the white crust of the field. As all the
others had gone out and left her, it was rather a long,
lonely hour; but it would have been that had the school-
room been full of youth and bustle.
The Natural History class, which came first hour
in the afternoon session, was one of the most agreeable
recitations in the whole day; and the other scholars fre-
quently suspended their lessons to listen to the anecdotes
and discussions among its members. Horses and dogs
were the topic of the day, and an animated debate took
place over their respective intelligence tnd fidelity.
Porn Blossom told of a couple of setters who were very
fond of playing together, but who would, upon occasion,
show jealousy and other human weaknesses. As for in-
stance, when the Pancrost dog came past, and found Billy
sitting on his door-step among the family, getting petted,.
12*


MISCBIEIJ AMONG THE ROSES.
he would, deliberately go. up, and snap and bite and quar-
rel his friend out of the nest of comforts, and taking his
place, would wag his tail and complacently offer his head
for the pats he had envied the poor Billy. Also, how
Billy, being taught to fetch his master's slippers, at first
brought them one at a time, but before long contrived
to pick both into his mouth, so as to save a journey to
himself.
"A wise dog," said the teacher; "but I as horseman
must speak for equines, in the person of my mare Nan.
You know what a beauty she is; high-bred, playful as a
kitten, and- as proud as Lucifer. Last Saturday you re-
member what a snow-storm we had. I took out Nan, and
harnessed her to the plow, to clear the paths. She was so
enraged and disgusted and mortified, that she threw her.
self, and refused to rise for coaxing or scolding. I never
strike her ; I hold a man who beats a horse as a poorer,
meaner, brute than the beast he is misusing.  So as Nan
would not obey me, I walked off and left her to think it
over for herself, giving no attention to her, walking up
and down, whistling, and using my shovel all around her.
After a while, she lifted her head and looked at me ; then
she called to me with an insinuating little whinny ; and
as I was still indifferent, she sprang to her feet, shaking
herself like a Newfoundland dog coming out of a brook,
and stood still and waited ; then she set out on a keen
run for me, and rubbed her nose on my hand and thrust'
her face on my shoulder.
Oh-! you are sorry for your nasty mulishness, are you,
Nan,' said I. ' Well, then, come :prove it by doing your'
work with a will. Jingo Peltus! " added Precious, bring-
ing his fist down on the desk, "you never saw a mare
so penitent in your life; I tell you she pulled like sixty;i

if

I

MISCHIEF AMONG -TIlE JOSES.

275

and she only lacks speech to tell me how she loves me.
I understand her, though, without words."
Suddenly recollecting himself, Teacher Plunkett smiled,
and looked a trifle confused, while he rubbed his stubbly
hair all ways.
"I am afraid I made use of an expression, in the hurry
of my story, which was not quite pedagogish; but you
boys have all heard it before, and won't be frightened;
and I hope the ladies will forget it."
" Orchis," said Augusta, nudging the attentive listener
who sat next her, " do you hear that? ie will rule his
wife as he does Nan. Poor fool, why didn't she stick to it,
and get into the stable having her own way?"
"He was both wise and kind," answered Orchis. "I
like to hear him tell it. I wish he would talk more."
"Of course you would say so. Now I am going to speak
in meeting myself," replied Augusta, holding up her hand.
"What is it, Miss Blossom ?" asked the teacher.
"Could you let 'in a cat-smartness among your examn-
ples?2 "
"What do you say, scholars,-one, three, six hands,-yes
I think we may ; go on, p ease.
"My aunt gave me a favorite tabby, who is fond of
music ; she always climbs on the piano while it is being
played ; and whenever she is left alone in the room, she
walks jigs, and marches, over the keys, of her own com-
position; and whenever the band plays, she goes to the
park and hears it out, never leaving before the finale."
"What question will you ask, Blush?" said Precious,
smiling.
"I would like to inquire what position tabby holds in
the Thomas Orchestra," answered Blush soberly ; "and
also say I have an excellent dog-story all ready."


MISCHIEF AMONG THE ROSES.  27

Oh, of course you are on the dog. side-of the argu-
ment. Let the tale be true, please; you know our rule
is to receive no fancy sketches among the illustrations of
our subjects."
"Do you mean that as a hint to Gussey ?"
"My narrative was a cat-tale, that I saw with my
own eyes," retorted Augusta.
"Go on, Blush,"interrupted the teacher, laughing with
the rest.
"I stayed one summer with my father in the mining
district, at the house of a rich man, who lived sumptu-
ously. One morning a poor woman came across the moun-
tain from the works, begging; a long, tiresome way, seven
or eight miles; bringing in her arms a baby, and followed
by a beautiful pure-blooded King Charles spaniel.
"The compassionate lady of the house supplied her
wants, and being a great lover of pets, she took much
notice of the pretty, affectionate dog, feeding her warm
milk and dainties; and while her humble mistress rested
in the kitchen, she permitted the spaniel to curl herself
for a nap in the lap of her handsome silken gown. Once
in a while Piet would look around, rousing up, as if to
make sure it was no dream, and drop her head again
after a lick of the jewelled hand of her new friend.,
When the beggar started on her -return, she had trouble
to get Pret off, who followed only at the last moment,
and with a most regretful, disconsolate air. Several weeks
afterward, we were talking of the incident, when we heard
a scratch and Whine at the door. I opened it, and there
was Pret with a month old puppy in her mouth, which
she laid at the feet of the lady, wagging her tail, arid
watching how her offspring would be received. She waited
long enough to.get a sip of milk, and satisfy herself that

I

he was welcome, and then she wasted away.     After
a while she returned, bringing. aPdther puppy; she went
and cane, till she assembled her entire family, 'to ac-
complish which she made four journeys, of at least four-
teen miles each; and she provided for them handsomely
by her industry, for she and hers lived in luxury, the
pampered pets of ladies, ever afterward."
"There was a clear instance of reasoning, comparing,
and deciding by evidence. The dog, being travelled,
found out that quarters could be had better than she~had
been born into, therefore she went for them."
"bAlthough being to-day on the horse'side, I must testify
to the wisdom of dogs. I like them; I believe in them,"
said Precious.
"You believe the fable we have just heard, also, per-
haps," said Augusta, longing for a fling at Blush. "To
me it sounds as if learned out of a book."
"Permit me to acknowledge the compliment to my
powers of narration," answered Blush, bowing; "you do
me proud."
" Mr. Beach vouches for its truth, therefore we know
it," replied the teacher.. "His veracity is as perfect as
the honesty of the Hydoiote merchants, who never keep
accounts, never break their word or strengthen it by an
oath."
"What do you think, Miss Orchis'?" he added, as much
to divert her attention from himself as for any improve-
ment purpose.
"I think cogs are very good friends to have; so are
horses: they never hurt your feelings on purpose."
As she did not change couneance -or attitude, the
teacher felt that he had gained nothing by addressing her,
and rather wished he had let her alone.

I

27:7

7th'    rr                /-    -
1ClILMI    F   AM ON G - l IZ    ROSES.

.276

.. CiA
:f        t An
J- -1
"J
{
,r9


CHAPTER XXIX.

GRISELDA WALKS BY THE. INNER LIGHT.
RISELDA    DUN WREATH       had   been  busy
every moment since ten o'clock the day before,
and now it was almost five in the morning.
Susan Brimble was down with the scarlet-fever, which
was epidemic in Cherry Brook, and her twin sisters were
still too ill of it to sit up more than an hour at a time.
The distressed father had come, ringing the Reverend
Colombia's door-bell, begging for help and nursing; and
Griselda hastened immediately to the aid of the afflicted
family.  She had swept, dusted, scrubbed' and scoured
and washed dishes in the disorderly house, full of pesti-
lence, confined odors, and all discoinforts. Griselda's
conception of good nursing took in several points, you see,
besides giving medicines, and she was' working out her
ideas with a will.
The weary mother, thankful for a let-up of the strain of
anxiety and labor, rather collapsed after the first watchful
half hour she spent in cognizing the helper's goings on,
and crept away to the bed she had not touched for three
days and nights before: and her deep breathing through
the whole night, without a change of position, told how
utterly fagged she was.

GRISELDA WALKS BY THE INNER LIGHT. 2'f
The young Universalist had sat out the dim, silent hours,
broad awake, absorbed in her mission; omitting nothing;
neglecting nothing ; alert to every necessity; supplying
every lack; she held the small sufferer on her lap (not
much but a bundle of bones now, poor thing), cooling her
parched mouth with bits of ice, nourishing her with deli-
cate broth of her own making, crooning snatches of cradle
songs which came back to her memory as she saw her-
self cuddled in Goody Ruddock's. strong arms, while the
tired eyes drank up the tenderness which was poured into
them, dwelling pleasantly upon her fresh beauty, till thy
heavy lids.dropped at last in refreshing slumber, and Gri-
selda ceased the swaying rockers, and rested quiet, gazing
still upon the little, wan face.
Queer thoughts of her own destiny thronged her mind;
and as she studied the child, whom instinct taught her
just. how to hush and comfort, she wondered if it was her
doom to number all her days without motherhood; to
foster aliens, but never to see her own baby lying on her
arm; and she set her face grimly as she decided, in her
reflections, that no such chance of home ties was hers;
that she was elected to be anaoutside worker in families,
an old maid to the end of the chapter.
As she so settled her fate, a swift vision of the man she
had first seen making tissue-paper caps, who had also
hailed her "Soyez le bien venue ma sourr" and asked her
to share his work, came before her. She acknowledged
him a "proper fellow," full-pulsed, dew-chested, genuine,
with graces enough to win regard, and' power enough to
hold it, being won.  She had helped him often since.
He was her friend, but though they met on the common
ground of their labors, she felt that no love-throb had
ever quickened his heart-beats for her; as indeed why

11

11.1


280   GRISELDA WALKS BY TEIE INNER  LIGHT.
shojid- there?  She had arranged her life, was striving
for a goal. He knew it; he had discussed her plans, set-
right, some mistakes, pointed our some flaws. lIe re-
spected her as a fellow-builder, a good honest builder of
earth's waste places. It was entirely as if they were sis-
ters or brothers; oh yes, of course; that was the footing
they were on.
Now as the dawn approached, she stood at the window
of the hushed dwelling, and looked out upon the starlit
sky. No signs of daylight yet, and the whole village as
silent as a city of the dead. Griselda fidgeted. Her vigil
had been so long, her labors so exhausting, she felt the
strain upon her powers without comprehending the cause ;
she sighed, and a feeling of depression dropped upon her
spirits like a leaden weight.
"To what good?  . Why live only to work and die?"
Yes, the ardent Universalist did feel this, though she
had thrown the .powers of her mind and body into her
occupations with the eagerness of'regained liberty, with
a zeal impossible to any but a young girl, who has,
after heartfelt longing, at last found a healthy outlet
for her pent-up energies in the joy and glow of doing
good.
I think I may now go home," thought she, passing
her hand wearily over her hot forehead. "-Every one,
asleep; all at rest.  Thesepeople, who scarcely know
my name, toilers among the race, bound up in their petty
troubles, hedged pn by hard fortune, weighed to the
ground under their heavy burdens, all emotions too dulled
even to feel 'Thank you' for my pains, are recruiting for
a continuation of the monotonous existence, drudge twelve
hours, sleep twelve; and that is all, nothing ahead any
better, no help for them or their children after them;-

GRISELDA WALKS BY THE INNER LIGHT. 281

I

.
_
,
t.

1111:

hewers of wood, drawers of water, while time lasts; eui
bono."
It was strange, but a cabinet picture of themselves at
seventeen, which she and Vashti had turned up in the
final arrangements to cut loose from the farm, arose be-
fore her : beautiful, fresh, rosy. Youth at its brightest,
and then the queer conjecture how she would look at fifty.
How long this outside, old-maid mission life could last,
and then what Dr. Mattoon might think or say, when,
after a good deal more of this watching and fatigue, a
good many thin, flavorless years, he would come upon her,
faded, sallow, thin-locked, peaked, stooping.
Unconsciously she straightened her lithe figure and
threw back her head. "Not yet! not for a long time
yet." Youth, vigor, health were all hers, all ahead of her
still ; she was vexed at her thick-coming fancies, angry
with her faltering on her chosen road, never discerning
that the weary body was in fault for the dissatisfied
soul.
"Well, Griselda !" said she, half aloud, as she turned
herself briskly about; "I had no idea you were such a
faint-heart ; why, girl, your liver is white as milk;
affrighted at a burden you have lifted of your own accord
almost before you feel it heavy ! Do you think he snuiles
and sighs every time he looks ahead?- The rest of the
world won't stand still while you are speeding forward.
Now let me see if you are able to drop your sikly non-
sense and attend to your business.
"The boy William can sit here till morning, and I may
get an hour's sleep before I go to Mrs. Wraiggs; and I
believe I need it. I did not know I could be so utterly,
fagged; I, who have dropped corn in the field all day
for Goody's planting, and raked hay in the fresh mead-

Ii

lte"    t''.  _               F
II
$r
' ;
t

,-
f .
I
, ,
:}
,}
_}
;.,
,
E
Y,
t   t


282- GRLSELDA WALKS BY THE INNER LIGHT

ows where the bobolink sang till the golden sun disked
out of Sight, and felt as fresh as at day-dawn.
Having noiselessly completed her preparations, she de-
scended the stairs; and shutting softly the street-door be-
hind her, she stood alone in the deserted' thoroughfare.
She walked quickly on with a light, firm step. The cool
air revived her, and she experienced enough of anxiety
for her unprotected state to quicken her pulses.
She had trouble to get used to those lonely excursions,
having for the last five years of her life scarcely seen the
moon rise, much less the stars set.
She was a little perturbed to hear a prompt footfall
behind her as she turned Maple Street, and in an instant
a rather loud voice, addressing her in accents which,
though there was nothing pointedly objectionable in the
words, annoyed and disturbed her, the tone not being
such as a gentleman -would use in a drawing-room to his
sister or his sweetheart.
" Well! here we are, on our road to the depot, Miss,
are we notI"
"'The building lies straight before, you; you cannot
miss it, if you step right on ; yonder are its lights."
Before replying, Griselda drew up nervously the white
muffler she wore on her head, pulling it across her lips,
so that her voice came a little blurred through its zephyr
folds, and she dropped her tone to adeeper key than be-
longed to her in her hours of ease.
"Are you going thither?"
"c No."
A stumble on a loose flag, and a hasty exclamation,
"George ! I never in my life saw so ill-lighted a village
as this Cherry Brook; did you? "
-1 know very few villages, and I suppose when all the

GRISELDA WALKS BY THE INNER LIGHT. 28g
people are good enough, and mind their ways as they
ought, they have inner light sufficient given them to
guide them without need of gas"
Griselda was astonished at er own quiet, not to say
bravado, as well as the even pane she kept, neither quick-
ening nor retarding, as with her last remark he stepped to
her side.. Turning a hasty glance toward him, she could
see only the outline of a man's form in an overcoat, and
carrying in his hand a travelling-bag, and also that his
face was turned toward her, probably -using his eyes at
his best, as she used hers.
"Ah, indeed! so we are all so good as to need no light.
I am rejoiced to learn that; it speaks well for human
progress."
"I said nothing of strangers travelling through ; men
who inquire their road; I included only the honest towns-
people."
"Would you consider me bold if I should ask you what
brings you abroad at this untimely hour."
"I do consider you bold to address me at all; but I
have no occasionto refuse a civil answer, even at four
o'clock in the morning. I have been watching with a sick
child, and am returning home."
"And your friends permitted you to return alone ! It.
looks like scant thanks for such good service."
" I do not work for thanks ; besides, neither they nor I
calculated the chances of my meeting intrusive or inquisi-
tive people, who make talk where silence would be both
decorous and wise. There stands the station-house ;not the
one which receives the friendless roghes, but 'tlae one
which holds well-dressed travellers.l This way lies my
road. I thank you for your- safe escort thus far. Good-
morning ! Bon voyage."

-I,

S,


284  GRISELDA WALES BY THE INNER LEGHT.

~Stay one moment, till I beg pardon. for my imperti-
nenee."
"SOh, you meant to be rude, did you ? Well, take this bit
of advice along with you. There is no woman above or
below the courtesy of a true gentleman."
"But you misapprehend me ; I spoke but as one com-
rade speaks-to another. You take evil things for granted;
you set me down among wretches, who am a good fellow,
a very proper fellow.; go to. I have two coats; go to.
Never mind that now. Lord! what an ass I have made
of myself."
"I quite agree with you; ambitious of Dogberry's
distinction, you have achieved more than his success."
As Griselda walked on, she listened for the footsteps of
her quondam companion. She was not afraid of being
followed, only curious to observe how long he would
stand still where she had left him. It was but a second
or so, and he hurried away. She reached herhome with-
out meeting another soul.
Just before going out for the day, after, her brief rest
and hasty breakfast, she paid a visit to the Rev. Colombia
in her study, and gave her an account of her adventure.
T could not have done' it better myself, my dear
Grisel!" was the minister's ecstatic comment. "I really
feel sorry for the puppy to find himself made so exceed=
ing small by a weaker vessel! so set upon; so squelched
by a non-voter ! a woman!"
"Wait a bit," replied Griselda; "who do you suppose
your puppy was?
"Some drummer, some insurance striker, or other cos-
mopolitan reprobate; making much of himself and little
of other people. I know the stripe ; I despise the race."
Griselda laughed merrily, but a little bitterly too.

GRISELDA WALKS BY THE INNER LIGHT. 285
"You are much mistaken, dear preacher; it was our
own brother Universalist; our man of pluck and good
works; our co-helper, Dr. Mattoon!"
" Dr. Mattoon! Henny Penny ! Ducky -Daddles! The
sky is falling, run and tell the king! " was the absurd re-
ply of the Reverend Columbia Johnson, as she dashed
down her pen ; and going out with quick strides, slammed
the door with absolute womanish emphasis.
"Stop ! stop ! " called Griselda, running ' after her.
"Not a word! not a sign ! Leave me to deal with your
puppy myself. I will not have you meddle; you shall
promise. This is my game; I will play it out to my
liking."
"Well,.I'll promise," replied Columbia sullenly ; "'tis
a disgusting world : all the men are wretches, and all the
women fools. I shall take to the woods and feed on
roots.'
"   'There speaks the natural carnal woman," said Gri-
selda; "my pastor is fashioned like her sisters after all:
she can feel disappointment in people and schemes, and
rail as glibly as we. I shall thank my stars and take
courage."
"One's preaching and practice are not always on the
same line, niore's the pity," answered Columbia, sheep-
ishly.

11

II I

L
a
,{

'''
,s
t
z -
.,

.
1
.t
4
f~

..


MOST FRIENDSHIP 18 FEIGNING.

CHAPTER XXX.

MOST FRIENDSHIP IS FEIGNING.

ROllS DUNWREATH brought no more flowers
to school; and after waiting one more nooning
for the German, and seeing that Precious put on
his overcoat and went out as soon as the session was fin-
ished, she hid away her books at the bottom of her desk,
and never asked him another question concerning them.
She was very unhappy; and though she did faithfully
her tasks, and outwardly looked much the same, her life
lacked the easy enjoyableness she had found when she
had had a friend.
About this time Mrs. Plunkett, having thought carefully
over the favor her son had beggedof her, informed him
one day that he might bring Miss Dunwreath home with
him on Saturday, adding that she would make the invi-
tation final and sufficient by a friendly note to the young
lady.
Much to her surprise, and a little to her relief, perhaps,
she found that Precious no longer desired the visit ; and
he was so short and uncommunicative about it, that she.
concluded the liking had been only a passing fancy,
which the closer intimacy of school associations had fin..e
ished..; and she was rather wdrll-pleased and easy in her

mind to have it so. Were there not many and many
line girls from well-known families into which her boy
would be gladly received? As she thus put Orchis from
her thoughts, the image of the beautiful .young maiden
rose before her : modest, strong, reticent, sensible;
Orchis a wife ; Orchis a daughter; Orchis a mother_
and she owned, with a half sigh, that she was of a truth
a rare and radiant creature. But the family! their oddi-
ties ; their antecedents ! Best asit is."
Returning from school, the 'teacher still made one of
their party often; and when he did he talked with Can-
dace and Augusta. Orchis did not withdraw from him ;
but as it was impossible for Precious to feel just as he
did previous to his call before the committee, he did not
know how to act the same; and whenever he- did ad-
dress her, he did it as if he had got to, and wanted to get
it over as soon as possible; and he joined in the jokes
and frolic of the others, glad enough to get out of the
teacher into the boy: running races, throwing snow-balls,
rubbing cheeks, and so on'; and as Orehis seldom sported,
never riotously, as did Augusta and Candace, who frisked
as naturally as kittens, she soon fell into -a habit of drop-
ping back of them and conning her lessons on the road.
Mr. Plunkett watched her secretly, not over-pleased with
her studiousness, and became livelier and more attentive
to Candace than ever. Consequently Orchis ere long ar-
rived at the bitter conclusion that her sister had gotten
two friends, while she, Orchis, had no longer any. - She
recalled the burst of love with which Candace had thrown
her.-arms around her. neck 'in the old garret, that day
when she came back from Sister Polly's and found her
spinning, and how she had said, "I hope I shall never,
never make you unhappy for a single minute."  She felt

287

L

n,

:

',
I
._
}
x-
-}
E
't ii
- !

At


28$       HOST FRIENDSHIP IS FEIGNIN..
that Pet was making her unhappy ; and although she
hated the conclusion, she was forced to believe that she
did not care.
She could not look in Precious' face without remem-
bering how unkind he had been, and also how very kind
he was able to be; and while she hid her grief over his
changeable fickleness and selfish indifference, and her
own intense disappointment in the friendship so brief-
dropped so easily without reason or cause-which she had
expected to get comfort and strength from for ever so
many years, she buried her suffering so deep that it was
below speech; she brooded, wondered, was miserable till
her face got almost as white as Clytie's.
Do you know how it feels, girls, after being the one
only, to fall back to the one among many ; the little at-
tentions which were all yours, the low-spoken words,
kindly looks, deep interest, yours no longer, but lavished
in your very presence on some sister or cousin, while you
think and think in a corner? .And when you consider
that Precious Plunkett was the only friend that Orchis
had ever found; that he was the Ferdinand to her Mi-
randa; you feel a little sorry for her, don't you? es-
pecially as she made no moan over her trouble, asked no
sympathy, offered no confidence, but tried her very best
to look and feel as if her life was running smoothly.
The German lessons had brought them    better ac-
quainted in the few weeks of school than years of ordi-
nary acquaintance could have done.  Their ambitions
were so nearly allied, their hopes so much of a kind, that
it was natural to talk them over, and very pleasant noon-
ings they had passed ;"Mr. Plunket did not know how
pleasant, till his annoyance had died away, and lie began
to miss the satisfying companionship, the beauty he h1d

MOT F.RIEfZDSHIP I / FEI(GTIX

289u

been enjoying; and to tell the truth, the old desk looked
bare without flowers; and now that he could get no more
friendly looks from Orchis' truthful eyes, he began to see
how perfectly lovely they were ; how admirable she was ;
and he would gladly have restored the friendship to its
old footing, but was not enough skilled in worldly courte-
sies to know how to approach a girl who held herself so
quietly aloof.
In the meantime Orchis had found out something
which intensified her bitterness, and widened the distance
between them till it seemed impossible for them ever to
mend the difference into union any more.
Candace got hold of the love-letter story. It leaked
out somehow, and Augusta Blossom brought it to her as
a capital joke, over which she had laughed already till
tears ran down her cheeks; and she was half frightened
at the burst-of fiery indignation it awakened in her friend,
but Miss Blossom did not know how much thicker blood
is than water.
"So this explains the sudden fall-off of his preference
for Orchis; this accounts for his transfer of his attentions
to us, and her devotion to her books. He found it neces-
sa  to make her suffer, selfish fellow;JIhate him!t I
did 't want any of his nonsense. I thought Orchis had
q  rrelled with him,' and I have tried a dozen times to
her about it, but she would not let me. Dear Orchis,
it i too nasty mean ! so there ! and she is just as misera-
ble as she can be ; I know she is."
Candace did not say this out loud ; in fact, she ran off
and left the laugher as soon as possible; and she lost no
time in pouring the tale into her sister's ears with her
own comments and protestations, and I believe a few
tears, as she buried her face in her sister's neck.
13

S
.2
i
i                t


OST PRIENDR1DSHIP IS ZEIGING.

'9 And this is why Precious refused my flowers?"
asked Orchis, holding her back, that she might see her
troubled eyes; "this is why he broke off the German
without giving me any reason, and turned so chilly to me,
like the cold wind that blows out of the north? "
"Yes, of course; he was nagged by the committee;
laughed at by the scholars; and he had to do some-
thing-   Don't look so, Orch! do storm, get mad,
scold, as I did; fire up at him,-he deserves it,-and be
friends again. It was so pleasant when you and he
agreed; I liked to see you happy with him."
"He had to do something: I was too troublesome; I
made him ridiculous; he was obliged to be rough to make
me understand. I was slow to take his hints. Friends
with Precious Plunkett I Never again I He hay behaved
meanly. Instead of coming to me, and saying,'Orchis,
look ! your roses' are lovely; they smell sweet ; but I
would rather you didn't bring them any more, for your
owg sake, because these fools see in it something ridicu-
lous and unseemly.'
"Nonsense, Orchis! how could he do that?"
" I could have done it for him; I would have spoken
plainly, and have kept my friend, instead of frowning
and growling, and giving no reason. No, Candace;
Precious Plunkett can never be Orchis' friend any more.
Kiss me, Pet. Do you remember what you said to me
that night: 'I hope I shall never make you feel sorry' ?
Well, you did hurt me ; for I thought he liked you and
you were willing he should; 'willing I should be outside,
alone ; that you did not care how I felt."
"Mel darling Orchis ! my good sister ;-your little
Pet ;-now you didn't, did you?"
"Yes, I did. You see it was bitter cold out in the

place where I was, while you had good times; no friend-
ship, no love, no warmth anywhere, only indifference;
and I got chilly,-and I will tell you, secret, Candace;
I think I understand a little how poor Clytie feels, who
can never love any more."
"Poor Clytie!" echoed Candace; and they sat in the
still gloom of the deepening twilight, with their arms
around each other, their two soft cheeks pressed together,
their tender thoughts mingling, and their true hearts
beating into closer unison than ever. Orchis felt better;
for after all, Candace's part in the trouble was bitterest
to bear; with her honest and sweet, it was easier to endure
the other.

1291

I

r.

V,

MOST ,,, FR.IEI) IJP- 1S, FEJGHIN6.

2moo

I


THE UHRISTiAS RVELS.

293

CHAPTER XXXI.
THE CHRISTMAS REVELS.

IE children's divertisement was ready, and the
evening at hand. Griselda had seen much less
of Dr. - toon than usual. He came and went
at the parsonage, i parish work, attended the sick, con-
sulted, reported, and accomplished much, as usual; but
she had been out a good deal, or busy in her room or
elsewhere.
On the-few occasions of their meting, he had seemed
disquieted, not at peace with himself in his ordinary
bland, beneficent way. He made fewer efforts to draw
Griselda into conversation, as of old, to tilt among errors,,
hunt out truths, compare impressions, recognize. sympa-
thies, and enlist in a common interest.
The. Rev. Columbia had stood aside, always pleasant
and friendly, but also somewhiles a trifle sarcastic ; hard
on manly frailties rand shortcomings.; taking lower esti-
mate of possible goodness, probable excellence; dwelling
on the shady side of human nature, especially masculine
nature ; delighting to report instances of graft, selfishness,
uiworthiness in creation's lords, and laughing slyly with
her pupil over the disturbed equilibrium of her coad-
jutor.

"Good enough for the puppy," said rhe; "let him
smart well. I don't feel a bit sorry for the rascal; not L'"
On this Christmas Eve, at the gala, both were busy
among many, but busy with the responsibility of prime
movers: hurrying up the costuming, directing the shifts
of amusement, overseeing the whole; and as they were
forced. into juxtaposition, into consultation, into united
action, they could not help being friendly a little after
the old familiar fashion.
Where is the boatman's hat; or the hat of the boat-
man, sar la bien venue ?" asked he- " will you make
haste and fetch it                     l"
"Yonder, under that pile of caps, I seem to discover
the pride of the peacock, or a feather of his tail," replied
she, pointing to a bronzed, burnished green tip flaunt-
ing itself above its nelighborings.. As she flitted across
the hall, and stooped, busily displacing the properties;
he bent his eyes on her in vexed thought.
"I will find out this very night !" muttered he.
The first prank of the evening was the acting of" Lord
Ullin's Daughter's," while Mattie Mattoon sang the
ballad behind a screen and the actors produced its spirit
in dumb show.
The curtain rose on a tin bath-tub, in which was seated
a boatman in extravagant Highland costume, who seemed
to paddle his bark with a pair of brooms; a gale of wind,
figured by four leather buzzes in the hands of as many
boys, made it a work of art to manage the craft ;and his
attention was vociferously claimed by a couple who ges-
ticulated wildly.

"Boatmar:

"COlef:

'Now who be ye would cross Lock Gyle,
This dark and stormy water ?'
Oh, I'm the chief of Ulva's Isle;
And this, Lord Ullin's daughter."

4


THE CHRISTMAS REBELS.

THE CHRISTMAS REVELS.

An under-sized lad stood for chief, and the tallest girl
in the hall acted the runaway lady. After prelimina-
ries: were settled, the story told, the silver pound (weight
covered with foil) offered and refused (" It is not for your
killer bright,.but for your winsome lady "), the boatman
makes room for them in the bath-tub, and the bride-elect
sits down on the edge and pulls on a huge pair of rubber
boots, then hands in her water-proof, carpet-bag, umbrella,
bandbox and several bundles, and a volume of the
"Lady's Book," after which she is gallantly helped to her"
place by the little lover, and away go the brooms, swish,
swash ! They are new, and they sweep well the supposed
blackness of the raging water ; when lo ! down comes
Lord Ullin, in a white wig, which he tears frantically,
scattering powder far and wide.
" His horsemen hard behind us ride."
They did ride very hard indeed, and with deafening
clatter, a couple of young fellows astride chairs, which
they pounded about the stage, everywhere, anywhere, ex-
cept on the boat before their eyes. Then came the thun-
der and lightning "mingled with the hail" (beans shaken
in a tin'basin, and whole bunches of matches fired at once).
" One lovelyhand was stretched for aid,
And one was round her lover."
Waving an immense right paw encased in a huge buck-
skin gauntlet, she clutched the defenceless youth with the
left with such resolution and vigor that she half strangled
hin, and then
"The waters wild went o'er his child,
And he was left lamenting."
A red table-cloth was thrown over the boating-party, ex..

tinguishing them entirely, and only Lord Ullin remained,
who wrung the tears from his handkerchief, folded it
carefully, put it in his pocket, and went off whistling.
The curtain dropped, amidst tumultuous applause and
hearty peals of enjoying laughter.
"Well begun is half done ! "said Dr. Mattoon, mopping
his hot face. " Nov for the operatic dramajor dramatic
opera. Bring in your caps, ma scour la bien venue!"
Griselda had a thoroughly good time that Christmas
Eve ; she thought of it often afterwards as exceeding rich
in pleasantness. She passed it all in Dr. Mattoon's com-
pany. She helped, she laughed, she jested; as blithe as
seventeen, as energetic and capable as thirty.
She was tying on her hat in the little dressing-room
after it was all over, when her partner stuck his head in-
side the door.
" CanI go, ma'am, if you please ?" asked he respect-
fully.
" Go? Of course, if your work is done."
" May I be permitted to walk b the side of ma scour la
bien venue to the. parsonage ?"
"Certainly ! " she answered readily, "if you believe I
am able to take care of you that far. "
"You remember what the lion said when they showed
him a picture where he was lying down with a man's foot
on his neck  If Ihad painted the thing I could have
had my foot on his neck.' As you are talking,, youca
state the case to your liking."
"I should be willing to leave it to an impartial jury,
who is best able and most likely to keep a straight duty-
path," replied Griselda quickly; and as he fixed his eyes
quietly on her face, she added, " I mean mankind in gen-
eral, not you in particular. Now I am ready to assume

294

295


296

" I

THE cHRIST.3AS REVEL.

the responsibility you offer me. Let us depart and be at
peace."
" Would you mind prolonging your walk a little, Miss
Griselda?" he asked, as stepping forth into the darkness.
he tucked her hand in his arm with a "There you are !
now see you stay put !," air.
"Not in the least," replied she readily ; "it is.a relief
to escape from the heat and din of the crowd. Well, I
am glad it is over, and a success. My first Christmas Eve
out is a good one to remember; I have enjoyed every
minute of it."
".You should, being the fruit of your own untiring ac-
tivity and skill. You deserve the fruition."
As they turned Maple Street, Griselda felt that her es-
cort had brought her this way with a purpose ; and while
she laughed inwardly, she roused all her faculties to be
ready for whatever he might say.
"I scarce ever saw so ill lighted a village as this-" he
began.
" Indeed Economy, perhaps, on the part of the gas
company. It ought to be full moon, you know, were it
not for the envious clouds," replied Griselda indiffer-
ently..
"Tell me, ma slur, do you still hold to your opinion
that the inner light ought to make good people independ-
ent of street-lamps ? "
"Pray, when and where did you ever hear me produce
any such dogma as that ? I am very far from a higher-life
Christian as yet, I assure you; I stumble in darkness which
may be felt."
"II had a most curious adventure just about here once ;
I've a great mind to tell it to you."
"iDo by all- means. I am fond of adventures ; I revel

THlE UJIRISTA.AS REVEL.

in Don Quixote; ,I enjoy Roderick Random; I dote upon
Sinbad the Sailor. Pray go on, Dr. Mattoon; I .am all
attention."
"Yes, thank you. I hesitate rather. You see I shall
not shine in the story, and I could wish to. enlist your
sympathy in advance. In fact, I made a fool of myself
in this neighborhood not many short moons ago." The
doctor pulled a whinisical face and sighed like a pair of
bellows, as he made the confession.
" You! the man of dignity, the pioneer of benevolence,
the promoter of good works? Impossible! incredible !
Pray explain. I am bewildered, overcome. In what sort
did Dr. Mattoon undertake the role of street fool?"
"Street fool! apposite ! excellent ! I accosted .a lady
whom I overtook walking hereabouts, somewhere in the
small hours, and I got preciously snubbed for my pains."
"I am glad of it! 'When lovely manhood stoops to
folly,' etc."
"There's a cut for a poor fellow! Do you know, Miss
Dunwreath, I could almost swear you were the fair un-
known ?"
"Swear not at all, sir, and be careful how you pay me
back-handed compliments of that sort. First you accuse
me of going abroad at unseasonable hours, then you imply
that having been accosted, I have forgiven the accoster.
Do me the credit to believe that I could never think pre-
cisely so well of a man who would lower himself to such
an action. I wish you a good evening, Dr. Mattoon."
"Stay ! patient Griselda."
A misnomer, sir ; I have no patience with Mr. Tabby
Tolight."
"Stay!d Miss Blanche All-but-white, till I tell yousome-
thing."
13*


THE CHRISTfAS REVELS.

THE CHRISTMAS REVELS.

"Janswer to no such name."
"Well, then, Aunt Grizzle, listen to me a moment!"
"Just as far out of your reckoning. Among our five
old maids I am not likely to acquire nieces or nephews."
"Couldn't you adopt a charge-mayn't I be your little
boy?"
"What! you, the agreeable Rattle who makes talk with
strangers, asking impertinent questions of peaceable fe-
males, who are modestly pursuing their duty-path, and
ought to be protected by true gentlemen for the sake of
their necessary work, if nothing else ! If I ever go out on
a like errand I shall assume the garb of a nun. Men do
respect that, at least in public."
"True gentlemen respect women everywhere, Miss
Dunwreath," replied he, with some dignity and much
irritation; "I am a gentleman."
"'Well! here we are on the way to the depot, are we not,
miss $' (mimicking his tone and breaking into his brisk steps
with firm heel-taps, swinging her shoulders and turning
out her toes in his very manner).
Dr. Mattoon laughed sheepishly. "It was you! I knew
it all the way to Boston !. I gnashed my teeth over the
knowledge. How did you feign your voice so as to mis-
lead me?  "
"I feigned nothing, sir. You misled yourself, because
you desired to go astray. I assure you I very merrily re-
call the sudden change in your demeanor, how quickly
the agreeable Rattle subsided into the meek, proper, def-
erential gentleman."
"Now you do me wrong ; if I was a trifle brusque, it
was but the tone of a traveller who salutes 'a comrade go-
ing the same road. I lightened the tediousness of the
way by converse. Christian the Pilgrim did the same.

299

I call myself a good fellow; I know I am one, despite
your flings. But, patient Griselda, I need a wife to keep
me in order; my late indiscretion convinces me of the
patent fact; won't you-can't you-are you willing-are
you able to undertake to keep me in order?"
"I must reply to you in the words of the photographer
whom the ugly sitter desired to produce of her a hand-
some likeness: -' Madam,' said he,' I decline the chob!'
No sir! I, mean to be a minister; I expect to lead a flock
of sheep, not goats. I cannot afford to centre my cares
on one individual, how much soever he may need them."
" I don't ask that ; only minister to me first, and all such
time and talent as you may have surplus you may do
good.to the balance of the world."
"I could not think of it. I know you would want me
to abandon my profession. I can't; .I won't ! I am
vowed to it, and I will keep my vow."
" Griselda, listen to me, while I speak my mind seri-
ously. I promise you never to interfere with your mission.
I am willing you should preach, provided you don't preach
to me. I shall be delighted to pay for the support of the
gospel when my wife gets the salary ;-it is a good plan
to make one hand wash the other. You see at once what a
proper firm we may set up. You save souls, I heal bod-
ies. Economy is on our side from the very outset. You,
a minister, shall tie the knot and pocket the fees."
"What ! give up my name ! No, Dr. Mattoon, I am de-
termined to have 'Griselda Dunwreath' on my door-plate
as long as I live."
"Very well; let me put' Dr. Mattoon' beside it: neither
above to rule over you, nor below to be despised, but
close on the same level, to be equal workers, able com-
rades."

:    -
",
"; -.

f


60 THE cIIRISTKiAS REELS.
'"Eo you know what people would say to such an alli-
ance?"
"I can suppose many pleasant things which might be
said,=but tell me what you think they ought to say."
"Ought is not the word ; folks don't speak as they
ought, but as they list. Everybody would call Dr. Mattoon
a fool."
Not everybody, Griselda. And if everybody outside
thb half dozen whom I esteem most should say hard
things, it would not affect my equilibrium in the least,
so Griselda be satisfied with her partnership. The world
is not likely to be much to you and me, in any sense, ex-
cept souls and bodies to work for. I never did pin any
faith to outsiders, and I should certainly consult no one
but the Only in my life's plans. I feel that you and I
are able to make a home of the choicest, rich and satisfac-
tory.. Come, ma sceur, say Yes."
"I cannot see my way to any such compact, any such
wind-up of my interests. I am afraid'you would be a
hindrance; a burden; a care. I never expected. to tram-
nel myself with a husband ; I didn't suppose I should have
an opportunity.""
"Trammel! My dear girl, why should that be? I am
already in the thick of my work; you have lined out yours.
Now I ask you, could we not accomplish more with
double interest and satisfaction if we pull in double har-
ness; with a dear, sacred, precious home to come to, our
own pleasant hearth to sit at, while we compare experi-
ences, strengthen and advise each other ? Say Yes, Gris-
elda!"
" No, I will say No ! A wife can hardly be a minister,
and I will be that."
"JI need to be ministered unto, therefore say Yes, and

R

f3o1i

-assume the office out of hand; don't lose any more pre-
cious time."
" I cannot ! I had no idea you thought of such a thing ;
I have no room for it in my mind."
",Take a little time, sceur la bien venue, only be sure
that you think even, as much on my side as on yours. I
can wait if I must, but I cannot be refused."
"How'many girls got the offer before me?"
"Not one. You are the first and the last ; if you
won't have me, I'll wear the willow while I live. I won't
stop working, but you will have the consolation of knowing
that you have taken the flavor out of my labors ; that will
be unpleasant to Griselda Dunwreath, I know."
"I shall call you the 'Lively Rattle' if I do take you ?"
"I do not care what you call me, so you promise not to
interrupt our pleasant consultations by any 'unfriendli-
ness."
"I'll have my name on the door-plate?"
"In all the languages of the universe, so you write
mine on your heart in living letters. Here we are at the
parsonage. I suppose you couldn't kiss me prospectively,
could you 2"
"Of course not. A minister ! you see how absurd it is !"
"You will not be a shepherd in private life, you know,
any more than I shall be a doctor. At least give me your
hand, the right hand of fellowship. Thank you, parson.
Good-night-a fine hand, firm and soft. 'Rev. Gris-
elda Dunwreath, Dr. IMattoon '--a nice-looking plate,
.rather long for its width. I'll come over in the morning
and discuss the lettering. I am for old English; what do
you think?"
" I think it is quite time for you to go home."
"My spiritual adviser shall be obeyed ; just one

TEl WNR$STMAS REVELS.

.      y
i
'                -          _        :f      r jy
"4;


THE CHRISTMAS REVELS.

moment first, though. I am joyful, thankful that I have
found a wife to my mind.. I'll be the best husband you
ever had."
Whimsical, queer, but very earnest was the doctor,
as he kept the hand he held and took- the kiss he
wanted.
Griselda ran swiftly up the walk to the front door,
then she turned and ran back again to the gate, where he
was still standing looking after her.
"Another kiss before you go ?" asked he, reaching
after her.
"No, no ; I want to ask you a question. How shall I
ever, tell Colombia ? what will she say to me?$ "
"Leave all that to me, that is my province: as your
guardian, it is proper that I should ask her consent."
Mounting slowly to her room, Griselda walked in a
sort of trance ; such a double to her life had never
seemed possible'; and she sat down gathering all memo-
ries of this man who persisted in asking her to share his
future.  And lo! they were all pleasante-ven to the
encounter on the;street that early morning.  Perhaps
that was not. disagreeable, because she felt that she had
had decidedly the best of the gentleman there. "What
will Vashti say ?" she mused; "what will the children
think  .And I believe it is true that the embryo minister
lived the prospect over in her thoughts very much as any
:other maiden does, and allowed herself to be decidedly
pleased with her approaching happiness.

CHAPTER XXXII.

BLUSH GETS UP A MENAGERIE.

T was drawing on to the close of Teacher. Plun-
kett's term, and compositions were now being
prepared for the grand wind-up; and much.
frowning, beating of celebrated tatoos, rubbing of fore-
heads were expended for ideas which refused to fall into
.rank.
Just the Saturday before, I grieve to say, that Candace
Dunwreath, Augusta Blossom, and Blush Beach got into
a very serious trouble.
The school-room needed cleaning, and the two girls
secretly resolved to do the work and take the glory, and'
say nothing about it. Therefore they left home quite
early, and proceeded to the scene of action full of enthu-
siasrm. bout half-way they were overtaken by Blush
Beach, who naturally enough inquired whither they
were bound. They pursed up their months, and refused
to tell, making a great secret of the enterprise, being as
sybilie as possible. So, after a short walk in their con-
pany, Mr. Beach left them in a huff, turning off at the
cross-road, and never once looking behind him.
"Blush is mad and I am glad," said Augusta. ~" Let's
hurry now and go to work."

86o2


30     .BLUTSH GETS UP A MENAGERIE.

Cleaning meant only moving the benches and sweep-
ing, when they undertook the job; but with the house-
eeper spirit kindling within them, they resolved to go.
further and wash the windows.
"They need it bad enough," said Augusta; "the com-
mittee talked of having them done when I was a little
girl, but they hated to disturb the spiders."
It was quite a labor to get them out; and after lifting
all on one side of the long room, and laying the'ni in a pile
on the floor, they paused to rest and count the sashes.
Then they remembered that they had no soap, no towels,
and nobody to bring water ; and they were half sorry
that they had not let Blush into their project, quite will-
ing he should share the honor, so he did the dirty work.,
It was so delightfully exhilarating to be free to shout and
scream in the school-house, generally pervaded by the
spirit of restrained silence, that Candace burst out into
hilarious song, in which she was joined by her compan-
ion. As music and dancing are twin graces, it was al-
most a necessity that the two should twirl about the room
in gleeful measure; and a good time they had of it ;
rather breathless, very rosy, but still not half merry
enough to pause, when suddenly, without warning,
bounce! "Bow-wow !"  came a huge black dog through
the open window, then "St-st, permow!" a-couple of cats,
with tails tremendous and backs astonishing; and the
cats began to run, and the dogs began to chase them, and
the girls began to squall; and clutching each other fran-
tically, they collapsed in a frighted heap just where they
happened to be when the invasion of the Goths and Van-
dals broke out-or, in rather : unluckily they fell right
atop of their pretty pile of sashes ; and such a noise as the
broken glass made, crushing and clattering ! and a curly

head appeared at the window, and Blush Beach goggled
his bright eyes at the stirring climax of his nice bit of
mischievous revenge.
He quickly leaped in after his menagerie, and helped
the fallen to rise again. Fortunately no serious hurts
were suffered ; a few scratches, a terrible scare were all ;
and as soon as they found voice, a shower of reproaches
were launched at the unhappy lad, who got chased into
corners, had his hair pulled and his ears boxed almost
as much as he deserved. Then arose a great calm, and
the three. stood about the wreck with sober faces. Every
pane smashed !
"Don't you mind, girls," said Blush cheerfully. "I'll
get rid of the animals, and then I'll run down to Cherry
Brook for a glazier. A good smart workman can put
them all back by dark,°and we'll just sweep up the
fragments, and there we are as good as new. Next time
confide in me and save breakage."
Wrapped in shawls they awaited his return. He came
breathless : glazier out of town; shop shut ; crape on the
door ; somebody dead. Blush had not finished his recital
as " Murad the Unlucky," when who should drive past but
Esquire Redmond, who paused to contemplate the open
countenance of his trusteeship ; and he lost no time in
inquiring the cause of the crash.
"I've a great mind to tell him we've had a first-class
panic, or an earthquake," whispered Blush. "What shall
Isay?"
"Tell the truth," replied Candace. ~" We took out the
window to wash them, Esquire Redmond, and unfortu-
nately they got broken."
"I should say so; quite considerably broken. Heavy
damage ,,you must pay for it, every penny."

S.

'a
'           l
A
f
"     ,1'               I
. n         _. .     .

BLUSH GETS UP A MVfNA-G  1        (


S 3O6    BLUSH GillS TIP-A Y{ENAGERIE.
"A11 right, sir," answered Blush, glad to be let off so
silly. " Great pity ; but if you will attend to the busi-
ness I will foot the bill. How much will it be?$ " -.
"Five dollars at the very least ; maybe more."
" Make it six, sir, and I'll hand it in examination-
day."
"Six dollars, remember; not a penny less."
"You are careful- about the pennies, ain't you, Es-
quire ? "
" My lad, remember the old saying, ' Take care of the
pennies, and the pounds will take care of themselves.'"
" I do, sir ; I will show you how exact I can be to the
last copper cent."
Esquire Redmond felt that. he had done a good thing
for his district, and was besides much pleased with the
chattiness of the boy, who followed him to the door and
also accompanied him on his way. For the last hour
there had been a light fall of snow, most untimely, which
had covered the trees with a soft mantle, treacherous and
hite.
ning under a spreading pine, Blush reached up and
placed his finger upon a protuberance in the bark.
"Look here, Esquire, you know all about trees; what
is this thing?"
:Pleasedwith the compliment, the old gentleman
pulled out his eye-glasses, adjusted. them, lifted his face
to examine the curious object, when the impudent joker
gave the slender trunk a smart kick, which sent the snow-
flakes all over him, wrapping him like a sheeted ghost,
while he himself sprang aside untouched.
"You young rascal, wait till I catch you!" exclaimed
the angry man, shaking himself, brushing the snow from
Shis ears and whiskers. "A pretty trick indeed 1"

BLUSH GETS UP A MENAGERIE.

{

;-
'    .
rt

307

"I think so, Esquire. You see, I haven't forgotten the
bag of nuts you took away from me last fall. I meant to
pay you for that 'pretty trick.' I think I am quits now."
The girls, who had seen the whole,1laughed and clapped
their hands in the doorway. .Mr. Redmond was no favor,
ite, being, as Augusta said, "too stingy-pious to be de-
cent."
Blush had a little gi-udge to settle, w hich was this:.
One day, in the autumn, he had gone nutting on Esquire
Redmond's land ; and after a hard day's work he shoul-
dered his full bag, and trudged off whistling, and thinking
how he would give a frolic with his hickories and invite
his friends. He had not cleared the field, when the
owner overtook him, and made him yield up his booty,
having watched and waited till the gathering was done,
so as to get the whole.
- "Much obliged for your trouble, boy," he had saj, as
the lad most unwillingly surrendered his hard day's work.
" The mouldy old hunks didn't even offer me a hand-
ful to feed my black squirrel,".said Blush indignantly,
when he told the tale, explaining the motive of his
prank, after his victim had gone. "Walnuts and but-
- ternuts that. grow in the woods belong to everybody, no
matter whose land they grow on." (This was his boy's
reasoning.) "I guess he'll find he's got pounds to take
care of when I bring him his six dollars."
"What do you mean, Blush ?"
" Never mind; wait till examination-day; you'll see."


WHAT If" LIGHTER THAN A PEA'HER?

CHAPTER XXXIII.

WHAT IS LIGHTER THAN A FEATHERto

RECIOUS PLUNKETT was heartily weary of
his quarrel with Orchis,-if it could be called a
quarrel, when no words were ever exchanged;
and he would gladly have made up, if he had known
how: But it seemed that his day of grace was past, or
at any rate he lost his lai'rchance by a fit of smartness
he played off, perhaps out of pique, perhaps to find out if
he could not provoke her into speaking to him.
Orchis handed in; as required, her examination essay,
upon which she had expended much time and thought, and
into which she had also unconsciously put a good deal of
herself. She failed in no school duty; she seldom left her
desk in the morning; but she no longer looked up or smiled
when Precious approached her; and when she sat in the
empty school-room correcting her theme, she sometimes
stopped to think over the German lessons ; their ending ;
the poor flowers which had been the cause of so much un-
happiness to her; and she felt bitterly, that, though she
had gained much knowledge'during the term, she had
learned one lesson which could never be unlearned. She
knew what it meant to lose a friend.
".Changes," that was the subject she chose; and she

had much to say upon it, and did her best to say it tel1.
Griselda expected great things of her; Vashti had writ-
ten her letters on the matter, and she had a pride in her
effort. She wished to write an essay worth keeping;
worth looking at afterwards. She talked it over with
Candace, read it piece by piece, till Pet could correct
any slip she made. She confided in Goody, who told her,
with a heavy groan, "Yea, there be a change, lass, that
makes the life lone; God grant ye may never come
through that;" and when the girl's face got still, and her
beautiful" eyes were heavy with unshed tears, she laid.
down her flail, and pulling her nursling to her lap, she
kissed her, holding her fast in her stout arms, cradling
her in mother-love.  A great, rough 'creature Goody
Ruddock seemed to outsiders, with her bass voice; her
big whip lashing the oxen; ruling the horses; the man's
work she did, and did well every day. But to these girls
she was as loving as she was massive ; often sorrowful,
often regretful; brooding over the dreadful ways and
woes she had endured, but never indifferent or forgetful
of the needs of her charges ; she would have fought for
them; I think she would have died for them; her life
was hid in theirs.
When the time came, and the compositions were re
turned to the pupils corrected by the teacher, Orchis
got hers with the rest. Teacher Plunkett handed it with
*a smile.
"You will find how I have endeavored to express my
estimate of your ' Changes,' Miss Dunwreath," said he.
"I hope you will commend-my skill as ar artist, even if
you do not approve my criticism."
He had drawn a neat pair of scales, in one of which
lay Orchis' theme, in the other an airy plume; as from

809


310    WHAT IS LIGHTER THAN A FEATHERS?
A.canary's wing; and while the essay kicked the beam,
the tiny pen dropped low, outweighing it; and underneath
was written:
" What is lighter than a feather ?"
This finished Precious' chance of friendliness with
his pupil. Her face was very Vale, while she tore the
theme to shreds and shoved the bits into the stove; she
wept no tears, nor showed any signs of resentment
toward him, making her recitations as usual, walking
home book in hand, "so near and yet so far."
Precious was sorry for the affront he had put upon her,
but it was done; she would give him no opportunity to
help it. Nobody knew it but the two: Precious had
ceased talking of her to his mother ever since the com-
mittee meeting, and Orchis knew no better way to dis-
pose of griefs than to bury them. She withdrew from
the readings, and kept aloof in any place where he might
have approached her.
Only one mirth-provoking event marked examination-
day. Blush paid punctually the six dollars window
money. He brought it in copper cents; six hundred!
He made a little speech, bringing in Esquire Redmond's
maxim -about taking care of the pennies, as the boys
dragged up the bags and opened them at the feet of the
astonished trustee. The applause of the spectators was
long and' loud, and it was a weary time before the old
gentleman heard the last of his bargain.
Orchis Dunwreath was awarded the first prize in
scholarship. Teacher Plunkett came down himself from
his rostrum, and laid oit on her desk with a bow and
pleasant words. After he was gone she sat an instant
with her eyes fixed on the handsome book, a red-lined

4
I

WHAT 169 LIGHTER THAN A FEATHER?
copy of " The Magic Ring "-she had wished for it, and
had spoken the wish in-his hearing.
A faint flush rose to her cheek, and her eyes turned
toward him. 110w much she could have liked the gift
from a friend. Having no friend, she would have none
of the book; and leaving her place, she lifted the volume
and put it down on the desk where-she used to drop her
roses; she thought of them as she laid it out-of her hand.
"You. swept my poor flowers from here into your
waste-basket," said she, looking into his eyes. "I will
not so dishonor your offering to me. Although I do not
wish to keep it, I will not treat unkindly the token which
might have been a prize to me if your churlishness had
not made it worthless." She waited for no reply. Turning
quietly away from him, she took her place again, and,
opening her history, she read on from the sentence she
was conning when interrupted. It was so quickly done,
and with so little fuss, that the changing class, who were
rising when she arose, had scarcely taken their seats
w en she resumed hers. But Precious' face flamed scarlet
as he dashed the book beneath the desk-lid. "Such an
outspoken girl! such straightforward ways!" and yet he
could not keep his eyes from looking at her, nor his
thoughts from dwelling on her.
So the school was over; and shutting the door, they
shut themselves out of its duties, its pleasures, and its
troubles, and turned a fresh page in their lives.

,
t
s


RAVE YOU MET THE HONE EE.       313

k

CHAPTER XXXIV.

HAVE YOU MET TH1i] HONEY-BEE?

HE month of May brought 'Vashti Dunwreath
home from   her medicAl school on her spring
vacation, such a different woman from the one
who left, only a short while ago, the unchanging routine
of her shut-in farm-life. Blithe, debonnaire, elastic in
spirits and health; her awe and dread of Clytie all out of
sight, with a purpose straight before her which she felt
able to compass, a vocation she meant to fill, to make tell
in every way on herself in culture and growth, and on
her fellow-creatures in helpfulness.
"I shall set poor bones gratis, but the rich must pay
for the practical skill and science I mean to bestow on
my patients," said she in one of her often talks with her
twin sister.
It may well be supposed that "the children," as they
were still called, sat at her feet literally, and metaphori-
cally listening to her experiences, her jdans for the future,
which largely included them in their fruition.
There was a little hitch for a brief period after Griselda
told her love-story; but as the two clasped each other in
a close embrace 'which Griselda would have, minding
no frowns, no averted eyes in the life-long sharer of her

bed and board, it came ont clear and bright; they wept
some tears, xchanged some regrets, but t heywere not
plucked asunder by this foreign heart coming in among
them.
"He is a noble man, I do believe," said Vashti; "rich
in strength and wisdom. If we must have a brother, I
am glad he is the chosen. Heigho! five old maids no
longer. Well, Grisel, may you be the joyful mother of
children ! We will love each other none the less, I think:
but he must look to his laurels or I shall steal his paw
tients."
" All you are able, dear, and welcome," replied Gri
selda, brightly smiling. "You are noble to take it so; I
had dreaded to tell you; I need not, though. You have a
good, true heart, my sister ; you are both brave and ten
der; you bore the old life better than I did; you chafed
less, you worked harder and more cheerfully. The chil-
dren shall have comfort out of the partnership; they will
get a canty home and jocund blithesomeness in our
house, find friends in our circle. I can do. much for
them married to Dr. Mattoon which I could not compass
as a lone woman, an old maid. If only something would
happen to shake Clytie out of her dead shell, I would not
mind any upturning or overthrow which might effect it,
Aid restore us even a shadow of our own dear Olytie,
kind, loving, sweet as she used to be. You young ones
can't remember much about those old times, but we
twins do; how she managed the house, how hospitable,1
charitable, complete she was ; how sympathetic aind
thoughtful, how equable and sunny. I hope and trust we
shall all be fairly good women, but none of us at our
best could ever be what Clytie was before that dreadful
day when she seemed to turn to ice, to marble ! she,;80
14'.

31g


31    HATW   YOU MET tE IHOWN-REE7
ful1 of caresses, and smiles, and friendliness, forgot in a.
moment how to love, how to feel."
".What do you think would follow if that man should
ever cross her path?" asked Vashti musingly.
'iI cannot guess; I have often tried to think; I believe
she would murder him out of hand."
"1Heaven keep them apart 1" answered Griselda, shud
dering; " we have suffered bitterly enough for somebody's
crime! let us have only true, pure living among ourselves
for evermore."
"We shall know whose crime killed our father before
we die," said Orchis.
They all turned their eyes wonderingly upon the girl,
who was looking on the ground. The assertion had a
tone of positive conviction which was certainty. "I only
hope," she added, "the knowledge will not bring us
more misery."
"Look ! there goes Olytie!" exclaimed Vashti, inter-
rupting the silence of thought which fell upon them all
after Orchis' words; "saw you ever such a dead face
upon a living woman? Poor girl, how I wish I could
help her! I cannot forget her even when I am happiest ;
she seems to chill me, to rebuke my cheerfulness; still I
feel that we are right ; living in God's world, we have a
claim on the fair fulness of it."
"Yes, and we will work for what we take also,"
echoed Griselda.
"Griselda," asked Orchis, who sat at her sister's feet,
holding one of her hands, "are not all men alike?
Would your Dr. Mattoon stand by you, do you think,
through a trial such as Clytie's?"
Unconsciously the woman tightened her clasp of her
sister's fingers. " If I thought there was that lack in him

AVdff 'YOU EfTET THE HONRYE-REEa     is

which should cause him to fall away in any trial, I would
pray night and day that the ordeal might come," said she.
"It seems to me that men are too unstable to make-
firm friends," said Orchis; "sisters are best: nothing could
ever sunder us." Then as Candace looked at her and
smiled, she remembered how she had thought hardly'of
the 'child, and she opened her arms to her pet, who made
haste to nestle into them. The others, looking on, thought
onr"how the children love each other." So little can
we 'know of the secret workings of the inner lives of our
best and dearest.
Olytie went and came among her flowers, entirely un-
mindful of everything going on around her. After a
while the fear which had troubled the sisters, that she
might leave them, died away, and sloe looked and lived
just as she had six months agone.
After much consultation and a good deal of thought
among the four-for little Candace was admitted to the
family counsels, which she mixed with fun and kittenish
tricks--Orchis had decided to apply for the summer
school as a beginning of her independence. The fact
that'- Dr. Mattoon was on the board made her success
look easy, though the young aspirant declined any inter-
ference on Griselda's part, determining to go in on merit
if at all. Of course Blush Beach was not left out of the
talks, and the restless lustihood did his best to be a sedate
wiseacre'on these occasions, though he took opportunities
to detail to Orchis fearful perils of "big boys, partial
parents,'%sand so on, which he gave as experiences, but
surrounded with a deep fringe of invention. Nothing
alarmed or daunted her; she was steadfast and deter
mined.
Never had Clytie's greenhouse been so rich in beauties

,f


8i~

HA E YOU MT THE HONEY 1EFJ

and never had the grave under the wailing pines been so
gorgeously adorned. Goody Ruddock was nearly -ubiqni..=
toxus; her powerful constitution stood her in good stead
always. No flaws appeared on account of the absentees ;
the farm and stock were in admirable condition, and the
house-keeping moved on as if no hands had ceased from
their labors..
Early this particular morning Clytie had taken her
gun and walked off toward the long wood. When such
fits came over her she seldom returned while daylight
lasted; and without any intended disloyalty to her, such
occasions were hailed with jubilance by the children, or
rather by Candace, for Orchis we know was rarely actively
sportful; and this spring, with its winter experiences and
opening responsibilities, found her even more quiet and
uniform than ever. Candace frolicked all around her;
she liked it, though she chided sometimes her obstreperous
jollity; and really it is a joy to frisk and laugh and run
and jump, especially when the daily life is bound down
to-silence.
Goody Ruddock watched the delicate feat of tying the
studious Orchis to her chair by a dozen strands of cord,
while the saucy, rosy-lipped jailor knelt at her feet and
gave her nose a little brush upward, waiting for her to
feel her fetters. Goody looked on with grim smiles-
even when Goody was most benevolent and amiable, her
smiles and voice had always a memory of wrong and
suffering and resentment in them.
"Thou'rt a tricksy lass," said she, hindering herself to
await the upshot 'of the prank, while she balanced on her
head tub of clean clothes; "maythy heart be ever as
briigt though thou'rt like a primrose growing in a
chireihyard."

HA VE YOU .MET THE .'OYEY-E?

.   2 . _  it
- I?  '  y

"Nay, then, Goody, why should I sigh away my spring-
time to psalm Pines while. I have Orchis to make inerry
with ?"
"Why, trulychick! But he who sows cockle shall reap
no corn; an' thou wilt not. plant in planting time, thou
shalt reap no harvest. But go thy ways for a sunny elf ;
skipple while skipple ye may; the skies may darken over-
your head till ye can see no light, before ye get far on.
I was a blithe maid at yer age meself."
"Were you ever young and small and gay, Goody?
There! do not frown, dear Goody; I love you big and
stout and grown. Kiss me, Goody,; oh, you cannot! you
will tilt off your burden. Oh! what strong strength is
yours which can stoop to me and rise again with that tub
upon your head; I wish I could clamber up and sit in
it, and be carried to the bleachery. No? then I'll dance !
Look howI can spin !"
Balancing herself on one foot, she whirled rapidly in a
circle not larger than a bucket-hoop, twenty times or
more, and ended with a fancy step which Blush 'had
taught her, rocking on her crossed feet while her eyes
laughed into those looking in grim admiration upon her
antics.
" There ! Goody Ruddock. If you know of a wild fairy
who can skit and reel, better than I, you shall tell me the
tale of her to-night when supper is done. Come, Orchis ;
let's hem our frills which Griselda cut this morning to
border the new aprons, on the great butternut tree.
There! look now, Goody!1 she cannot rise. What :holds
you, Sister Orchis?"
"I think a wicked spider spun a net over me while I
studied. No ! it was a cruel witch who tied me down to
my chair, with white yarn of my own spinning: a naughty,

t

-    .. t       .r.i
_  e_     -    .


88AE YOU MET THE EONEY -BEN7
wasteful prodigal,using my warp and my precious minutes.
Come help me, Goody; Baby Candace has made me prjs-
ioner,-see her laugh. Dear Goody, don't you wonder how
she can gambol so? I never could; I've longed some-
times to try it when she. skipped about me airily like a
floating turtle-dove, but my sprightliness was like an
elephant cutting .capers. The great desolation did not
darken her soul or' chill her heart, did it, Goody? I am
'glad, we love her bright rays. Yes, I'll come to the tree,
and you shall hear me in my verbs, Candace, while I sew
for you. Oh, how I dread that awful examination! I
wonder if I shall pass."
"Precious says there is no doubt whatever about it."
"I did not ask or desire his opinion," answered
Orchis coldly.
"Well, then, Blush says the old fogies don't know
enough to puzzle a flea."
"But my wit is so slender and so tender that it will not
bear tossing, as said somebody in your book ; and I have.
fears."
"Come on,.then, doubtful Orchis; you shall not have'
time to sneeze thrice till I.prove to you, by your own
knowledge, that you are a match for the committee, with
the visitors to back them. See Goody ! how she steps
undei- that heavy tub! Is she not like the Amazon
Myrina Precious read to us. about, who took care of
her people and conquered her enemies?"
"Goody looks like our own 'dear, kind Goody to me,"
replied tOrchis, who received no reference to Precious
vdth favor.

C

CHAPTER XXXV.
4ASHTI SETS BROKEN BONEs.

HE Cherry Brook stage, making its daily journey,
passed along the road, about three o'clock, carry-
ing outside a passenger, who rode with the driver,
beguiling the way with scraps of talk, having first put Jehn
in expansive good-humor by the gift of.a prime cigar.
Such a remarkably handsome passenger as to be
worthy of a particular description: a symmetrical passen-
ger every way, in proportion, feature, carriage, and color ;
wonderful eyes, so large, soft, liquid, eloquent,-but I
forgot, just here was a shade of imperfection, for one of
those beautiful orbs was a brilliant blue;, the other, the
tawny hue of a lion. You might look a hundred times
in his face, and always find something strange in its fas-
cination, without discovering the peculiarity, the brows
were so clearly lined; and the lashes so long And curling;
and when it did strike you, you wondered why all faces
were not so marked, because, instead of seeing a blemish,
you felt it a graceandcharm. 'His hair was rich chest-
nut brown, his silky mustache and full flowing beard the
same glossy hue; his dress perfection, and the very
louch of his gray beaver was seemly and becoming; and
when he laughed aloud at the shrewd talk of his corm-

..i4 l ,,W;
,   ,.\-
' X}Y       '   ...
y., ,
\ l   f, .


14 1d

320

VASHT1 SETS BROKEN BONES

anion, gon would have felt it impossible not to echo his
mirth, it was so genuine, and its expression so musical.
"A. very pretty bit of ground, indeed, is this which we.'
are passing; a charming garden; and a greenhouse!
Certes ! that is an out-of-the-way luxury for these country
folks. Pray, who lives here?"
"Well, as true as you breathe, there's a queer lot of
women housed in yonder ; they run their own farm, set
their bull-dog on to all the men that tries to get inside
that there high fence; folks hereabouts calls 'em 'the.
old mnaids,' though I must allow I think its rather out of
spite, cause they won't let on to nobody, than 'cause
they're dreadful aged, any on 'em, 'cept the Tom big.one,
that stands nigh a foot higher than I do ; and I sway ! they
say she'll stick a hog, douse it into the scalding-tub, and
= yank him oAt again afore you can hear him' squeal twice.
She is a buster, that's a fact. I reckon she ain't much but
a servant to the rest. There's five on 'em, and from the,
peeks I can get when I go by,-for I must confess I do feel
kinder curious about their, turning the cold shoulder to,
the men so,-I should call 'em all harnsuin, and I shouldn't
Bet the oldest one down more'n twenty-five either.
There's the Ton big one now, choppin' wood by the
kitchen door! I think her name is Goody Ruddock ; least-
ways, that's what I heard the little girl a-screamin out to
her one day. She said, 'Goody Ruddock! Goody Rd-
dock! come and help me catch my calfs!'"
The handsome passenger took his cigar from his lips
and turned .his eyes' upon the driver, lustrous, strange,
full of something .which might have been surprise, or it
might be dread.
"What did you say was the name of this - this--s
eiouselold of women ? " asked he slowly.

I

VASHTI SETS BROKEN 90      .       S
"Nobody calls 'em any name but 'the old rnaide.'
They're got a name, a nice-sounding name too; I seen it
once on a deed I fetched when they bought the Dolman
land, down there,-sixty-three acres, part of the Major
Dolmantract, that the old gentleman trafficked out of the
Injuns with a tanned sheepskin. You see, they told him
he might have all he could get inside of it, and the cun-
ning-
ng--
"But the name 1" interrupted the handsome passenger
impatiently.
"Well, may I set cross-legged and walk slip-slod, and
call myself Snip the Tailor, as the feller says in the play,
if you can't put on high when you're a mind to. I don't
mind; I see all sorts on my road-  Their names is Dun-
wreath. 0 lord! we're over!"
It was true enough. The front left wheel, which had
been wabbling for some time, struck the edge of a buried
rock on the roadside and ran off, and the sudden tilto f
the vehicle dashed the two outsides to the ground,por upn
a pile of ragged rocks which had been dumped into.a
hole close by; and the driver, who had sprawled his huge
length exactly atop of his companion, scrambled quickly
to his feet, with no more hurt than a few stone-bruises,
but the handsome passenger did not stir.
The insides tumbled out of the uppermost window of
their prison, and when, after some exclamations and
jumping about to assure themselves of the safety of lif
and limb, they approached to inspect the quiet body of thei7
stranger, he groaned heavily on being disturbed, but gav
no other sign of consciousness.
" Well, here's a go! 'his wrist is broken to a dead cer-
tainty, and I think a leg also, and what's to do?"
" Carry him into this farm-~house of course," suggested


VASHTI SETS BROKEN BONS.,
one of the men; "that is the thing, and the only thin g
and be lively about it too. Are they all dead, that ri'obody
comes to help us!"
"It's the.old maids; they never help nobody. You may
knock on that gate till you drop, before you fetch a soul,
cept, maybe, a bull-dog that'll tear the meat all off your,
bones," replied the driver, walking around the sufferer,
in a puzzle.'
"That is a mistake, friend," said a third, who had his
eye to a knot-hole in the fence," for here comes as spry-
and handsome a girl as I have seen since I courted my
Polly; and she is in a mighty hurry too. That's right,
good lady! here is a poor fellow with broken bones who'
needs your care!"
As the gate flew open inwards, the spy nearly fell into
Paslti's arms, who pushed him unceremoniously aside, as
of minor consequence, and rushed to the aid of the suf-
ferer.-
She had seen the whole from her upper, window, and
had hurried to the spot, eager to inspect the accident. So
much change had a few months wrought in her ! A year
ago an earthquake, dropping half Cherry Brook before
their dwelling, would have scarcely brought her to un-
lock the gate and look forth.
After a quick survey of the senseless. man, andt a gentle
touch of his injured limbs, she said briskly to the group
bout her, who had stepped back a pace and were curi-
ously watching her:
"Bring him in, two of you who are strong enough to
lift such a burden!"
Such a challenge from  uch lips brought a ready re-
sponse. Any of them felt strong enough ! Even the little
weazengd old fellow in a skull-cap, whose legs were like

YASHTI SETS BROKEN BOES.

.G-
V.

323

pipe-sterns, and whose breath piped through .his skinny
throat in an asthmatic whistle: he bustled up and tried to
clutch a leg of the handsome passenger 'as they lifted
him. Too late; the lusty ones had already moved off with
their burden, and he narrowly escaped being knocked
down and trodden on, as he skurried aside, looking for an
approving glance from the fresh, ruddy maiden, whose
thoughts were all busy with the work in hand.
They laid him gently on a bed in the great front
chainber- and though the bearers used curiously their
eyes, they espied nothing to repay their eagerness: a
large, bare, uninviting, tenantless room, cool and gray in
the, half light of its darkened windows: any farm-house on
the road held its like; and none of the sisters visible; the
driver hurried them away as fast as he could.
"Sorry to leave you in the lurch so, Miss; but you see
Pve got to catch the train, if the devil stands at the door.
Good-day! I wish I could stop and help you, but I dare
say you've got folks, handier than what I be, to step after
the doctor."
"I need no help, thank you," replied Vashti; "'I can set
bones myself, and shall lose no time when the place is
clear."
" Really, now, that's lucky! Well, we'd best be goin'.
Good-day!" He left, twisting his head over his shoulder
to see all he could of the beauty who could manage
broken limbs, and pretty soon he came tearing back, bring-
ing a heavy valise. "Excuse haste and bad pen, as the
pig said when he ran away from his sty," he puffed out,
dropping the luggage; "I've fetched- the gentleman's
traps. It kinder looks as if he might need a change afore
he leaves your hos-pit-a-ble abode."
" Well, by jingo!" he added, as he ran back to his coach

i t


324         ASHTI SETS BROKEN BONES.
and busied his hands with the necessary repairs; "I don't
see what they want to tack' old maid' onto that putty crea-
tur for ; she's as fresh as a ripe peach. Pm glad he fell
agto such hands ; I wouldn't mind breakin' a bone or two
myself, to get into such quarters with such a harnsum
nuss; I wouldn't, so help me John Rogers !"
When the young surgeon had set the fracture with Or-
chis' help (who came with her first call, pale as marble,
and silently obeyed every look and word, while Candace
dropped into a corner shivering and affrighted), bound up
the bruises, sewed up the cuts, and washed the dirt and
soil from her patient's face, she stopped to see what he
was like. Half a moment's surprise, then anger, then
fear seized on her, and she ran nimbly, looking backward
as if she were fleeing from an evil spirit. Galling loudly.
for Goody Ruddock, she dragged her by the arm ,close to
the bedside, the old woman letting herself be drawn any
whither by her first nursling, even if a fire and faggot
awaited her at the end of her road.
"Look ! Goody," said she, giving -the great head a
quick dip, pushing it at the back; ."look down there,
 Goody! who is this man 've pickedoff the rock-heap?"
"Ugh! the wretch! the warlock ! the kelpie! the
villain ! Out with him! I'll trundle him forth the windy!
I'l dash him from the highth! Miss Olytie shall not be'
driv' mad with the finding his feet in her path again, after
those gone years. Stand aside, bairnie, till I drop him !"
"Stop ! Goody, not so fast," replied Vashti, seizing the
woman's arm as she prepared to make good her threat,
bearing down upon her-victim with a powerful swoop, while
her gloomy eyes burned in savage rage. " Stop, Goody !
he is cast upon our charities defenceless; we won't turn
him out to die; that would make us worse than he. Iehall

i.

I

,I

YASHTI SETS BROKET BONES.

cure him, and then hear what he has to say ,for his nasty
conduct. No! stand off ! you shall not, I say shall not,
harm 'hun ! It is a compound fracture, a dehecate case
full of interesting splinters; I may not get another such a
subject for years. I will cure him. He is coming back to.
his senses, which mercifully left him while I dressed the
wounds. Handsome as Absolom! -The love of Clytie's
youth,-nay, I believe, in spite of all, the love of her whole
eternity! .  must pound some fresh wormwood for his
sprained wrist. What will poor Clytie say ! Hush! here
she is coming up the stairs. Stand back, Orchis! take your
eyes off the man, child! Ugh! how cold your fingers are.
Be still, Candace!"
They made way for. her to approach the bed where lay
the bundle of manly beauty and manly consummate-
ness who had failed her at her utmost need, whose cow-.
ardice had made her eyes sere and her life empty. 'They
scarcely breathed while she stood still, as white as marble,
gazing into the pallid face she had not seen since it was
aglow with love for her; whose adorable radiance was as
fresh in her memory as if the last meeting in the library
had-been yester eve.
The breath came evenly through her thin nostrils, and
but for her dilating eyes, black as midnight, and a slight_
pressure of her humid lips, they might have supposed
she had no especial interest in what lay beneath her burn-
ing gaze.
With a slow filling of his lungs, which expanded his
broad chest, and an exhaled sigh, he lifted his heavily
fringed lids and -those wonderful eyes, one lue and the
other tawny like -a lion's, dreamily lustrous, and hardly
taking cognizance of his surroundings, rested, after an
instant, in a troubled gaze which soon consciously centred

325


326

[SHITI SETS BROKEN BONES.

on the woman beside him, contracting his fine brows
and clouding his whole face; then he closed them while
a faint shiver of pain passed over him, and he murmured:
" Clytie Dunwreath at last!" 
"Donald McQueen returned from Europe!"
Clytie wheeled about and went straight "to her room,
where they heard her pacing up and down for an hour or.
more.. Then she descended, visited her greenhouse,'
culled with careful particularity a ,great bunch of her
choicest blooms, which she took in her hand away down
to her grave under the moaning pines. Having arranged
them with pains-taking nicety at the head, she sat down
at the foot; and burying her face in her hands, she re-
mained motionless till the day-dawn.
Goody Ruddock followed and watched her from afar;
and while her restless spirit, faithful as a trusty dog,
hovered near, she dared not approach or disturb the
vigil whose sequence she could not even guess.
With the rising of the sun, Olytie. appeared in the sick-
chamber, where Vashti was sitting by tle bed wetting the
bandages of the sleeping man.
". I will not trouble you further, Vashti," said she in her,
ringing voice. "This is my place; I shall fill it."
" Don't murder the poor fellow ; he is half dead already.
Let him live long enough to speak for himself."
Vashti half unconsciously gave breath to a thought
born of Clytie's eyes. " Dont murder him, Clytiminestra,"
she finished slowly, with her gaze fastened on the woman
at her side. She.ought not to have uttered the word-; she
knew how Clytie used to hate it ; what a trial it was to-
bear the infamous name; but something in the air and car-
iage-of the would-be nurse impelled her to speak.
""No need for any fears, Vashti," she replied; "I have

k

VASHTI SETS BROKEN BONES.            2
no twenty men to set upon him, nor shall I sew up the
sleeves of his garment. Oh no; I shall use all my woman's
care and wit to restore Mr. Donald McQueen to health,
and I shall depend on the skill you boast to aid me."
"NTow you talk sense, Clytie. Let bygones be bygones."~
"I live but in the present,-and in the future," replied
Clytie, with unchanging, emotionless face.
Vashti looked at her elder sister, vainly trying to
measure the value of her answer.  It sounded friendly,
and yet it and the allusion to her abominably significant
name jarred upon her ear like a deathful threat. Her
face was serene, yet some sort of change had passed upon
it: for its usual marble whiteness she had gotten " a delicate
vermil tinge, as steeped in the richest hues of pale red
roses." She was alive to the finest fibre; and a palpitating
intensity thrilled over her, as she laughed :a low breath-
ing of music, but yet a frightful laugh, as of a fiend who
revels in the perdition of the best-beloved.
"Ah! Clytiminestra," said Vashti, who was fascinated
and repelled by the strange beauty of glitter and stillness
she saw before her.
" A sweet-sounding word of deep significance ! With
this good pistol in her lovely hand, she would have needed
no distilled poisons. No foolish nymph was she, turning
always to the careless sun-god, who liked her not; a woman
of deeds and will. YQu were wise to name her to me over
this thing of wounds and bruises. I thank you. Now to
my work ; I nurse, I watch, I wait."
It was terrible retribution for the bundle of manly
beauty and manly consummateness, to be thus disabled and
stranded; at the mercy of the girl he had jilted; depend-
ant on her for the food he ate, the smallest comforts: a
sup of water, a cool pillow, a taste of broth. She would

Y

,
_ °
.  i                _
.,
t
r      ..         ''            '  "      .


828        YASHTI SETS BROKEN BONES.,
permit no hands but hers to minister to his needs, and
she sat quietly watching him by the hour. Vainly he
tried to shut out the glance; beneath his closed lids lie
saw it still: her black, black eyes, her flossy hair of -yellow
flax, her adorable mouth, rosy-lipped, humid, velvety:
purely beautiful was she.- The Clytie he had left that
night, clad in azure crape, with damask buds in her pale
blue snood and -perfuming her breast-knot, was both
lovely and loving'; here she sat the same woman in a
straight;, homespun gown-was she loving still ? She often
smiled on him, her touch was gentle, and her voice muir-
muring music.
" You are killing my patient by inches!" said Vashti
after the fourth day.  "He is on the verge of a brain
feyer. Is this your aim and desire ?"
"No; Ihave told you I desire his recovry to health. I
z=_have omitted no care, neglected no remedy."
"And your eyes are basilisks to him; your touch is
fatal. If you don't want to have a maniac or a corpse on
your hands you must, keep out of his sight and leave him
to me. No bones could knit while the blood is in such a
f erment."
"Strange, is it not? He has chanted full oft and pass-
ing well the praises of my beautiful eyes, and vowed that
my charms might inspire the dead to rise and praise
them."
Vashti felt her flesh creep. "Clytie!" she said, in a
half whisper, "remove your baleful presence from that
sick-room; do not enter the door again. Leave me to wor.
my cure."'
Clytie had, risen to fetch a basin of cool water from the
spring ; and returning, she stood with theiournd dropson
her firm arm, as on fine marble, where they sglshed

ri

YASHTI BETS IY&amp;KEN BONES.

"  ,-
i
tt]1,
hi_
( 'o"

from the bucket.  Though she had walked quickly, her
cheeks wore no flush, her stillness was untroubled.
"I will not!" she replied; "he shall recover through my
pains, my care, my constant attention. Here! take this;
you may bathe his forehead for. once ; I will return
presently to my own place. Who should watch with
Apollo but his fthful Clytie ?  Who attend the troth-
plight but the bride of his choice?"
As Vashti left her, she called Goody Ruddock to her
assistance; and mounting to the old garret, they fetched
thence one of the dusty trunks, which they deposited in
her room.
Shutting the door on the trusty servant, Olytie un-
locked it; and taking out a morning-robe of soft gray  and,
pale rose facings,.a pair of satin toilette slippers, diamond
quilted and~edged 'with quilled ribbons, and a clinging
shawl of knit zephyr of the most delicate tints, she put,
them on; and flitting softly out, she bent her steps to her
greenhouse, and took thence a potted' plant in fullest
bloom, and bore it carefully in- her arms to her grave
beneath the pines. It was a strange selection she had
made; a weird, uncanny thing : a blood-red arum, stately
and dangerous; whose stem was speckled like a frog's
back, its fancifully cut leaves flecked with snow. Yes-
terday it began to show its sanguinary hue on the
edges of' its scolloped spike ; to-day it unfolded its
threatening emflorescenee, horrible to look at, in ;ec1
like the stagnant blood-ooze from a dead man'swon d
while its long purple shining spadix shot straight ua
from its red spathe like a reeking weapon,' a pestifer~
thing, a deadly poison, smelling like a loathly corf  "
but beautiful, velvety, gloomily magnificent. Vashti,
looking from the window, saw her bear it on; a waft of

ass


VASHTI SETS BROKEN BOWES.

VASHTI SETS IIROKEN ROZ'ES.

its malignant breath reached her where she stood;- she
watched her place it over the sleeper's heart, saw her
kneel, bending above it as if whispering to the dead be-
low, and then return to her. greenhouse, whence she
emerged, having moss-buds and violets in her breast, aid
mounted, to the sick-room, where she appeared like a ra-
diant vision, carrying in her hand a basket of fresh flowers
hose odors wafted before her like incense.
Vashti had gone, and Orchis, and Candace;met her on
the ending, but stepped aside in dumb wonder while she
passed, looking straight on s if she saw them not. Very
likelyshe was not conscious of their presence, for all her
faculties were centred in one point, so as to leave no
sensibility to outside neighborings.
"Is not Clytie lovely?" whispered Candace, s she disap-
pealed.
"Terrible, I think," answered Orchis with a shudder.
I5I had rather -she would wear the homespun gown, and
whip us, as she used in the other times.  It ;makes me
chilly like ice to think of her. I hope nothing dreatiful is
going to happen. Last night I dreamed I walked with her
on a long bridge leading to the pleasant land, and when
we were half across, it opened in a wide chasm impossi-
ble to "pass. I stood still, but Clytie stepped down on
someloose timbers'itrying to find a safe way, and then I
put out my hand and'touched the rail and the timbers
drew together, and I went on in sa'fty, but I could not
find poorClytie; she was gone; and when I strove to call
aloud-I awoke. I do not like the wild dream, the rush-
ing black water,.nor the dreamy loneliness of silence with
Olytie lost."
"Don't think about it Orchis, dear; come out in the sun-
shine ; your hands are cold, you are shivering. What are

dreams?$ Nothing. I have ugly ones too sometimes, butI
put them out of my-head. Let us go and beg Goody to
make us some potato dumplings for our, supper, Orchis.
Orchis, look at me, not away-off there; I am nice."

33.1'

r

,- aao


CHAPTER XXXVI.

BEAUTY WITHOUT STRENGTH IS IMPERFECTION.
4 EANTIME Clytie had entered the sick man's
room- and found him alone.  Vashti was both
brave and curious, but: she did not care to meet
her sister just now; she shut herself into the corn-crib, and
preserved a hawk which Goody took from the huntress'
pouch the day of her last solitude in the deep wood, and
which had been seasoning ever since in poisons.  Vashti
was not brave enough to face Clytie, but she was fearless
among her venoms.
Mr. McQueen had just wakened from a sleep; and he
could scarcely believe his senses when he saw those
beautiful dark eyes smiling on him, her white teeth and
the play of her adorable lips in the tuneful words of her.
-greeting, animated and gracious.
"Good-morrow! Donald; see what I have brought yon.
The surly surgeon  does not wish me to place them here, I
know; she pretends they are baleful. It cannot be, because
flowers, any flowers, which I have reared and brought to
bloom that they might blush and glow under the eyes of
a true flower-lover who knows them all by name, cannot
have any harm in their sweetness. Are they not lovely?
They are friends full of memories.  You see all your

I

BEAUTY WITHOUT STRENGTH 15 IMPERFECTION. 333
favorites: tea-roses, mignonette, carnations, violets, anem-
ones ; even the royal lily you are so fond of liking to
the sun-god's Olytie, consecrated to your use, but now
taken from the holiest altar in the whole world. I have
forgotten nothing; yes, nothing."
"Have I been dreaming?" said the bewildered listener,
half aloud.
"I think so, Donald ; are you sure you are fully awake.
You had better pinch your cheeks with your movable fin-
gers and find out, while I adorn your poor room. Had I
known the guest who was admitted in my absence, you
would have had a widely different welcome."
She was arranging her roses in a glass on the stand
near him as she said this, and she turned her full-orbed
gaze upon his face, covering it an instant with heirintense
eyes before she went on with her fanciful task.
"You chose ill for the theatre of your adventure as
far as luxuries count, but you found dome old familiar
faces?"
Stepping hither and thither before him, she completed
her arrangement, chatting musically, and humming
snatches of well-remembered songs, till at last she came
and offered the medicine of the .hour.  " Open- your
mguth, Donald; this. is to give you healthful strength ;
beauty without strength is imperfection."

hry


ORCHIS TRIES SCHOOL-EE2PING.

CHAPTER XXXVII.
ORCHIS TRIES SoHOOL-KEEPING.

OBODY who has never tried it can form the re-
motest idea of the wear and tear of mind and
body consequent upon the office of school-ma' am
in a county district. The rashly importunate girl who
assumes the post must fight her way through all sorts
of unpleasantness and vexations, stupid little boys and
rascally big ones, who bend their whole energies to the
feat of "plaguing the schoolma'am," especially if she is
young and delicate, daintily bred, so as to contrast with
their rough coarseness.  They eye her over, seeking her
weak points, sensitive places, and out crops the brute and
the bully every opportunity. The more frail and gentle
she is, the harder her lot. Scruples must be left behind
when she enters the school-house; only one course is left
open: she must struggle for mastery, get it, or run away
in disgrace.
The happy mothers of boys tell us much about'their
generosity, chivalry, goodness, and other cardinal vir-
tues: I can't be supposed to know. I count it one of the
blessings of my life that I have not had to come i con-
tact with man boys. But if the be as richl endowed as
Jove himself, I notice they leave their fine qualities out
mostly, in their treatment of the schoolma'am.

i1

F:

-  i
,'

I--

S 35

Thores de important preliminaries to be gone through
before attaining the honor of pedagoguess: there is the
inspection. The sharp-nosed gentleman who led the van
of inquiries questioned Orchis minutely on the spelling-
book, diving deeply into the mysteries of letter sounds-I
when a is as in fat, when as in feathers. Then Esquire
Raymond took up the theme.  He reckoned that the
new-fangled method of teaching the letters was dreadful
slip-shod ; for his part he learned out of a horn book-
"A by itself, a ; E by itself, e;.I by itself, i; " and he
rattled off the vowels so fast, and jumbled them so hope-
lessly, that Orchis was quite dizzy trying to disentangle
them.
Then there was the facetious gentleman, Mr. Poinsett
who sought to bewilder her in her talk, asking her, "Who
was acrimonious?" with such a persuasive look as led her to
reply, "The god of acrimony ; " also, Who was the father
of Zebedee's children ? and if the Simplon was a moun-
tain ir Weathersfield ? Andhe chuckled till he was red
in the face over her easy plunge into his artful snares;
but he made it up by shaking hands with her afterward,
telling her she was a. good girl and he "notioned "'she'd
keep a "gimmy school," and "he wished he was a boy
again, to god to her, so he did."
Then Esquire Redmond remarked that "for his-part he,
should choose Miss Martingale to keep the school."
"What ! Long Jane?" asked Mr. Poinsett. " Now it is
a patent fact, Redmond, that she don't know a hawk from
a handsaw."
" I think everything of government," replied the Es-
quire; "she was first-rate to flax out the young ones,
and keep 'em up to toe the mark ; no fooling with
her."

g. ,


ORCHIS TTIES SCHOOL-KEEPING.    337

"Air you a professor, young woman" inquired sharp-
nose.
" I am afraid I don't understand, sir," said Orchis.
"Air you a member of an orthodox church, in good and
regular standing?"
"No, sir."
"Bad ! Well, you will have to open the school with
prayer.".
"I am afraid I could not do that."  Precious never
did, she thought, but she stifled the recollection, and
would not let his name pass her lips.
"It is a rule, young woman,"'said sharp-nose, pom-
pously tossing his silk handkerchief into his hat, held be-
tween his knees, after a clarion peal from his peaked
trumpet. "If you can't fulfil the dooties we require of
our teacher, you shouldn't apply for the place ; we can
find a plenty of pious girls who will jump 'for the situa-
tion."
"I don't feel inclined to jump for it," replied Orchis,
whose lip curled slightly.; " but as I have made up my
mind to get it if I can, I will learn by heart a prayer, if
you make a point of it, and repeat it."
"We do make a pint of the devotions, young woman,
certainly. You must pay strict attention to them."
At this stage of-the proceedings Dr. Mattoon hurriedly
entered, leaving Griselda at the door._
I can't stay a minute, Orchis dear," said he, taking
both the girl's hands in his'; "I just want to add my vote
to your engagement, and wish you success. So if you
have-done with this lady, gentlemen, you make out her
certificate, while you come and kiss Grisel, dear, who is
waiting for you outside."
" Have they picked you all to pieces, darling'I" were

Griselda's first words as she looked pityingly in Orchis'
sober face.
"Not quite. I am glad it is over, though."
Dr. Mattoon's say-so finished it, and Orchis was dis-
missed from the presence of the august body, with the
important bit of paper in her pocket.
As Teacher Plmikett's school was the only one Orchis
knew about, of course she unconsciously modelled her idea
of her teaching upon his, and she expected to seat herself
in state and call up her classes in order. She had bright
visions of them, looking so well in position, while she read:
the essays (a little twinge with the thought of her theme,
so ridiculed), and she really got quite enthusiastic' over her
plans, and she and Candace commenced sketbing out
some small drawings for "rewards of merit," and making
a list of the tunes they used to sing.
" There s 'Dinna forget, laddie; dinna forget,' "sug-
gested Candace.
"Leave .that out," replied Orchis, straightening herself
proudly while a faintblush crept up to her forehead. "I
feel ever so old, Candace dear; I have lived so long since
last spring, when you went to Sister Polly's. I am going to
try teaching to fill my thoughts, as much as for the first
object I had in view: I do not want to loiter or think.
I will tell you something, Pet. I wonder how you can
be so gay in this sorrowful world, when I hear your sweet
laughter-ringing out so silver clear in our old rooms, your
liquid song-notes merrier than the bobolink in the meadow,
and see you romping with Ajax; I wonder at you. Life
seems heavier with Olytie so strange, and this false man
here. She is farther away from us than ever. Don't cry,
Pet; I love you gay and cheery. I would love myself so
if I could bel it. You have got a friend who may be al-
1.5

%

_[     838

TRIMS, 8OHOOL-XEEPI2%TG.


FU

38

ORCIIIS TRIES SCHOOL-KEEPING.

ways a friend; I hope so truly. I had one ; I lost him.
Shall never have another."
This was the most Orchis ever said on the subject of
her feelings, but Candace knew all about them; she watched
her going through her preparations, always kind and help-
ful, but with an old, quiet gravity, which even she felt
too old in her sister. She knew also she had hidden out
of sight every book, every faded flower, every bit of rib-
bon Preeious had touched; and when she watched her
walking listlessly up and down the garden-paths, with her
small hands clasped and her eyes fixed on the ground,
she knew that she was digging a grave in her heart to
bury in it any memory of the friend so friendly.
The strange events transpiring in the house brought
the children closer in union. Vashti returned to her col-
lege at the end of her vacation, and Griselda, though she
kept a sisterly thought for the younger ones, was busy
among her duties; and to Clytie they were as if they
were not.
Mr. Precious Plunkett was gone. He had met Candace
on the street, and bidden her good-by, but sent no message
to Orchis, and no mention was made of his return. He
was working for himself in the city.
One day Augusta Blossom came up full of a new plan,
which she hurriedly brought out, and which filled Can-
dace with wonder, it was so startling. She was going into
Cherry Brook village to board and attend school at the
Young Ladies' Seminary, and she wanted Candace to go
also. Goody Ruddock was the first one consulted on the
subject.
Would you like to go, bairnie?" was her question.
"Indeed I should like it rarely, Goody. Could I, do
you think? ,,

ORCL9S TRIES SjIOOL-KEEPING.
In course you could, baby; what should hinder? there' -
money enough. You can do all that yon lass can, if only
some kind body would stand beside ye."
"Then P1 ask Griselda right off."
Before Orchis entered on her new duties her pet was
settled ina nice, pretty room with her friend;-in the small
world so full cif life and enjoyment, which she took "up
with all her might. It was alittle lonely for poor Orchis,
but she made no moan over it, bearing it, as she did all
imevitables, with quiet strength.
When she walked into the school-room on the appointed
day, and surveyed the fifty faces collected there, and
heard the uproar the fifty throats  ere pouring forth
and which scarcely subsided at he coming ; when she
met the curious.and somewhat defint glances cast upon
her by the big boys, she began to be a little fluried,
and took off her, gloves, and hung -up her bonnet under
the blaze of fifty pairs of eyes with outward calm but ii-
ner trepidation.
She had never entered tge place since the "last day,"
when she had refused the prize ; and a flood of memories
rushed over her as she looked at the familiar benches and
black-boards, and her eyes would seek out a particular
desk, and a little sob gathered in her white throat. She
had sat there through many pleasant mornings doing her
German with her friend.
Something crunibled beneath her touch as she lifted
the lid of the official desk, and pushed about the loose
papers left there by her predecessor. Could it be? Yes
it was a bunch of faded buds, one of her despised gifts to
Teacher Plunkett. She picked them up, and threw them
into the waste-paper basket, and said.in a clear voice, as
she rang the bell:


ORCHIS TRIEW SCHOOL-KgEPG. G

My scholars will please ,be seated."
The spirit of the request' was so ladylike, and the,
crushed thought she- rejected gave it such firmness, that
even the roughest subsided into their. places, and sat
quietly while she read a few verses from the Bible, before
she kneeled down to go through the required prayer,
which she had taken care to learn by heart.
Unfortunately the act of kneeling hid her from view ;
and being all unused to offering petitions in the hearing
of any but her Maker, her voice was low and tremulous;
and the charm of her agreeable presence broken.
Rude noises of all sorts began to be audible : whisper-
sings,laughing, coughing, and scraping of feet: till at last
a big boy, red-headed, freckled, scrawny, loose-jointed,
lumbering, uncanny, the terror of all the ladies who un-
dertook the summer school except Long Jane, who had'
beaten him almost to jelly on one occasion, and stood a'
lawsuit about it, and gained the case. This boy, named
Philomen, began to crow ; one of his imitators, taking
courage, newed like a cat ; another replied in a small,
wee voice, saying, "My cat's got a kitten ;" and then
followed a general giggle.
A dread sense of responsibility settled upon Orchis,
which she did not understand how- to meet. Ignorant of -
the ways of children in general, and finding in herself
no power to rule these tricksy spirits, she would have
seized her sun bonnet and escaped, if she had fol
lowed her first .impulse; but she was in for it now, she'
could not go back. The tumult subsided a little when,
she stood before her desk, though one of them said to-_
'Philomen:
"What pretty lar she's got, hain't shell"
"She' better look sharp, or she'll get it pulled; L ain't

agoin' to be ordered round by no such little hen as she is.
Bad enough to be bossed by a big woman like Long Jane.
She needn't try any of her 'you shalls' and 'shan'ts.' i
can lick her as easy as that," snapping hip nasty fin-
gers.
When Orchis took her paper and pencil, and proceeded
to register the names, she paused before Philomen, and as
she did so, she thought what sort of a soul that must be,
which could be at home in such a revolting body, and
wondered if any woman in the world could possibly love
such an ugly creature.
Perhaps her reflections reflected in her face, for he
glared viciously at her, as drawing his =hand across his
nose, his bold eyes offered an unpleasant suggestion of
the sort of manhood he was likely to be, father to, the
scapegrace of the town. When people saw him slouching
along the road, they called in their pet dogs, and little
girls ran for their kittens ; the vagrant pigs knew his
shambling figure, and they scurried everywhere out of his
reach, with their tails twisted into bow-knots, as.soon as
they caught sight of him.
"Will you please pocket your jack-knife, Philomen, and
tell me what you wish to study " said Orchis.
He had commenced to whittle as soon as she approached,
and when she spoke to him, he obeyed in a careless, im-
pudent way, which said plainly, "I wouldn't if I hadn't:
a mind to, and you couldn't make me," and he answered
her guite bluntly:
" Nothin'," at which all the boys tittered again.
"But I suppose it will be necessary for you to study
something, if you come to school," she added, quietly look-
ing him over.
" I'm coming' anyhow, and I shan't study nothin' if I

34

OR HIS TRIES - SV 1.l O OL-KEEPING.
'I" L1- G.

L


ORgHIS TRIES SCHOOL-KEEPING.

ain't a mind fo. I don't do nothing' I don't want to,
never."
After this lavish expenditure of negatives, he straight-
ened himself and glared at her, while the whole school
looked on, measuring the strength of the two, and looking
forward to a "muss."
Orchis passed on, much perplexed; here was a bar to
progress she had not expected. Instinctively her thoughts
flew to Teacher Plunkett, and his opening speech, "If
you want to have a row to begin with ;" but she did not
want to have a row, could not have a row ;'the idea that
she might be obliged to use force with this repulsive rep-
robate, to touch him with her hands, presented itself un-
pleasantly.
The one model she knew, had once or twice in his term
been through a process which he described as "sprouting
a boy," but as it was done out of school-hours, in secrecy
and seclusion, she had no clear idea of the proceeding.
She and Candace had been much whipped, and she had a
fixed determination never to inflict such pain on another
body; as hers had suffered, though she had never flinched
nor remonstrated.,
There were some odd occurrences occasionally, which
would have afforded mirth to Candace, but which scarcely
brought a passing smile to vexed Orchis; as, for instance,
a promising scholar in "Wattson the mind," being asked,
" For what was the sixteenth century noted ?" replied by
Tote:     '
" For the reformation from Pop," the rest of the word
being on the next leaf, she had taken the statement as it
stood, and so Popery was only a dead letter to her, which
perhaps.was just as well.  Also, in the reading-class, a
girl came on a long word which was too mighty for her

pronouncing ability ; hey neighbor nudged her with this'
advice:
"Call it tater, Sue, and let it go." The advice being'
taken, of course the scholars laughed, if the teacher did
not.
The most perplexing and nyortifying session, was per-
haps one afternoon when Esquire Redmond and Cynthia
came to visit the school. Philomen originated a new di-
version for the occasion, which sorely tried poor Orchis,
weary and fagged before.
Coaxing one, of the small boys who sat on the low bench
in front of him to stoop forward to pick up a button, or
other. tempting bait, he launched him with a dexterous
kick in the middle of the floor. Half a dozen times the
prank was repeated when the teacher's, back was turned,
so that she could get noinformation as to the cause of the
fun, the victims standing in abject fear of their bully.
Attention to classes amidst such an under-current of
worry required more poise than heading an army, and
when the session was over, and she sat wearily at her desk,
to listen to the shout and horrid rout of Philornen jump-
ig on the benches followed by his squad ; hustling the
little girls, knocking off caps, and deporting himself like
the nasty wretch he was, she considered anew what she
could do. He was larger and stronger than she was; 'he
had given out his boast that "he would worry up the old
maid, and serve her right, for daring to set herself over
him." It is quite likely that her fine, delicate beauty
made him feel how coarse and brutal he was. At any rate
the boy's wish to plague the school-ma'am had settled in-
to something like spiteful hate in sweet Philomen's ten-
der mind.
Esquire Redmond told Orchis "-she. must keep order

'                :                         ,                    O
"  '                                                                     .,
,                                                   f
^                              _     v. 'k           ..

OIWH!S TRIES SCHOOE-REEPI21 .

843


ORITS. TRIES S'E0OL-KEEPIN0.

somehow," and pointed out the most efficacious mode he
knew of-" a good whaling."
When the boys seated themselves on a neighboring
fence, and sang and hooted in at the windows, and the
girls looked at her as if she ought to quell the outrage, she
grew pale. She felt that her first launch into life's duties
was a-failure ; that she was incapable, good-for-nothing.
She wondered how anybody could enjoy teaching; and if
Teacher Plunkett told the truth when he said he did.
That thought she directly put down, however, as unworthy.
ie always told the truth. She began to consider boys as
monsters without souls, sent to afflict and torment all well-
disposed people, and she looked out on the distant woods,
envying the squirrels who lived there and ate beach-nuts.
Philomen laughed in her face, and snapped his fingers
when she appealed to his honor; his honor required that
he should worry out the school-ma'am.
As the heavy weeks wore on, Orchis grew haggard and
wan. Griselda noticed it. Candace, home for her Satur-
day holiday, felt sad about it, and Goody plied her with
dainties she had no heart to eat.
"You' are working too herd; you will wear yourself
out before fairly in harness," said Dr. Mattoon; "take it
easier."
The only way to take it easy Orchis could see, was to run
away, and that was impossible ; so she fared on. Had it
not been for one bright ,spot, one agreeable half hour, I
think she must have given up in despair. She had a class
in German, a couple of girls who eagerly caught at her
offer to teach what she had acquired.
Stopping one night after school to go over the lesson
she had a thoroughly good time, and when it was over,
and they were ready to go home, chatting, bright, de-

lighted with each other, they found themselves barricaded
by huge logs. piled against the door. The noise and
racket without, were sp much a matter of course, that
Orchis paid no heed to it, and with the door securely
locked, had abandoned herself to the full pleasure of her
one bit of good teaching. At her vain attempts to get
free, Philomen demonically shouted, standing aloof with
his hands crammed in his pockets, and stamping and
squealing could faintly testify his delight when his prison-
ers climbed through the window. The indignant pupils
cried out against him:
"Are you not ashamed to treat -Miss Dunwreath so
shamefully ? horrid boy!"
,They put their safety in peril by their championship.
For the dear lad jammed his hat over his ears, clenched
his teeth, and took after them with such foul language as
made them fly swiftly beyond his reach and the sound of
his curses. Monday morning was a white time in Orchis'
calendar; .and the school was tolerably quiet and comfort-
able. Philomen was kept at home, to turn the washing-
imachine, by his mother. Ali! if the turning could have
been prolonged like Ixion's!

3A44

ORCH13 TRIES SCHOOL-.KEEPING.

3A5


HUNTING AND WAITING.

3i7

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
HUNTING AND WAITING.

LYTIE ! only Olytie! His soul was full of her.
When she appeared before him, she but offered
palpably to his senses the vision of which he
was constantly dreaming.
She had on a hunting-suit of Lincoln green, a short,
full petticoat and close-fitting body, and a round cap of
grass velvet on her head, beneath which her flaxen hair
lay like floss silk;' Hung around her neck by a; green
nord was a tasselled powder-flask, and her supple, slender
wigt was belted by a russet baldrick, covered with gilded
characters, pendent from which was a shot-pouch em-
broidered in bead-work. Her stockings :-were clocked
with crimson, and her trim-fitting little shoes had such
stout soles that she could ford the shallow brooklets in
safety.
She stood with head thrown back and shoulders
riolhtened, and smiled at him as he lay half-reclining
a couch.
"Look, Apollo ! how does your sunship like the poor
water-nymph now?   See, she turns and turns no longer
fr-a ray of your heavenly fire, but is sufficient to herself
to-day. She is Diana now; she goes where she lists;
she hunts such game as she likes."

While she talked she walked easily up and down be-
fore him, so that the bewitching grace of her appearance
came fully to view, from the dainty pompon in her cap,
the color of the fern-leaf, to her delicate round ankle.
"Better as the free hunter than the poor, despised,.
patient thing, always neglected, longing and praying for
smiles which were not hers. But that is a lesson which
takes time and weeping to learn well. I believe silly
Clytie herself got weary of the life at last, and took con'
solation in admiring her lovely face in the dew-drops.
Now what would you give to come out with me for a long
breezy tramp through the spicy woods? The dogwrood
is abloom, and the rock columbine, and the yellow sand
is purpled with the vivid blue of the wild lupines; the
eglantines are ready to burst their pink buds; the nests
in the deep woods are full of young birds, and the bobo-
link is floating in song above the meadows, golden with
crowfoot and king-cups; the moss on the great rocks in
the brook is green, green; the world is full of life and
love and song. Come, what would you give :' 'The
poor maimed sun-god, lying there pale, shorn of his
strength, faded from his regal beauty, wan, helpless!:
"Do not mock me ! do not taunt me with my weakness.
0 Clytie, how beautiful you are! how lovely, beautiful!
Won't you kiss me, Clytie? just once before you go, beo
fore you take my joyaway? What torture to feel cooped
here like a sick chicken, alone, while you are a broad at
your own free wilL.. I know how you go swiftly through
the forests ; how you pause and pluck your flowers, idly-
charming, superbly vital, every way sumptuously, glor-
iously beautiful. I think of it here in this dull room;
it gnaws my very heart that I must miss .such joy as I
know of abroad with you. Won't you kiss me, Clytie?"


HUNTING AND WAITING.         34

"What! in my character of chaste Diana?" answered
she, laughing, and coming so close that he caught the
breath of the moss-buds and violets at her breast. "Of
course not, Donald; it would be out of my part; and you
know when I assume a role I must keep to it. Stay I let
me freshen your pillows a little; your face 'is weary
and troubled, your cheeks are hollow; I must not forget
that I am nurse as well as huntress; Miss Nightingale as
well as pure Diana. Odd, is it not? the mixed shapes and
shifting changes of our poor lives; to-day, something;
to-morrow, nothing."
Hgfollowed every graceful motion, while she chatted,
bending over him just out of reach; every curve of her
humid lips; hanging on her words, drinking in her beau-
ties, intoxicated with her presence.
"I am going to the long beaches to hunt some squirrels
for your supper. Say 'Thank you, Olytie."'
"'Will you go alone to that far-off place?  Some evil
may reach you; some danger hurt you. Wait a little
till-I can accompany you; till I can shield you, take care
of you. Nay, you shall not leave me to fret and fret
awaythe weary hours."
"fHow, delightful to be so missed! so enveloped in the
wishes of tender thoughts, manly anxieties ! full of throb-
bing fears, anxious presentiments! I could fancy myself'
a -clinging vine clasping the lordly oak. Nothing will
hurt me, Donald; nothing in the world can hui-t me, I
think; on the contrary, I shall hurt the squirrels. I shall
fetch home a round dozen in this beautiful pouch of
manila grass. I'll show you their pretty heads through
its meshes when I come in, their bright eyes glazed, their
nimble legs broken, their fluttering hearts stilled.- I
shall cook them for youi supper. They love their wild, gay

life; I shall take what they love for you. I will kill
them quickly; I'll not make them suffer long torments;
to sear the brain, dry the blood, quench. the eyes in bitter
weeping. Those are only for human souls."'
"'Yes, for me, Clytie ! Bow you torture me ; you have
-   no pity."
Clytie laughed: clear, ringing music, but terrible to
hear. Donald shuddered faintly, feeling a chilly tremor
through all his sensitive organization, and his strange eyes,
languid, lustrous, fastened upon her beautiful face; a
delicate rose dyed his cheeks, and the great artery in his
throat swelled and throbbed.
Goody Ruddock, passing the door, stopped an instant
to listen, as if forgetting her purpose of motion, and as
she listened, a thought of crime passed through her mind:
a vision of her handsome, wicked brother, and the swift
murder she would do if she came hand to hand with his
betrayer.
"Wish 'me. luck, Goody," said Clytie, "'before I go to
play at the pretty game of killing the innocent, this rare
day of'sunshine and sweet south wind."
"Don't leave me; don't talk so, Clytie. Put away your
gun, and come and read ' Endymion.' Let me touch your
hand just once,, then, that I may have the thrill to dream
over when I am alone: your firm, warm hand like fine
velvet." He reached out toward her imploringly : "Oh,
how cruel ! you will never come near me ; you.who know
so many dear caresses. Will you keep always aloof, and
I prisoned here?$ Give me the bud I saw you holding
between your bright lips, so like rose-leaves, just now
biting it with your sharp, white teeth. Do kiss me, Cly-
tie!"
"No, sir ! chaste Diana does not kiss Apolloi the poor

AND W- A. TIHG.


HUNTING AND WAiTING.

nymph, the sun-flower, has forgotten how.  To-night,
perhaps, when I come back and get into my costume as
pretty waitress, I may take on the manners with the
garb. I shall serve you by lamplight in a dainty apron
and frilled cap; I shall put the faint blue you like upon
it for ribbons, the Venus brooch of azure porcelain, and
the red rose-buds at my throat.  Oh yes! 1' must be
brave in attire, sweet in smiles, while you sup off my
--game well-browied in sherry."
" oClytie ! how bewildering, how  tantalizing you
are !" moaned Donald, throwing himself back among his
pillows. "If you had not~bid me awake from my dream,
if you had not nursed me so kindly, I should be afraid-.
nay, of what?2 I know not, my goddess Olytie:
'Through light and shadow thou dost range
Sudden glances sweet and strange,
Delicious sprites and darling angers
And airy forms of flitting change.'
"Hence false doubts ! distracting fears! Here stands
my darling in her sweet, precious womanhood. I will be
happy."
' When you have finished your soliloquy, magnificent
Apollo, I will take leave," said Olytie,.pausing in smiling
ease.
"Go, then, and leave me to my pains, my loneliness, the
impatience and unrest which torment me like fiends;
maimed, helpless, broken.  Go quickly! and. let me
dream of you, joyous, complacent, and tender, as I know
you at your best. Ah, if tears of blood might wash the
past! if I could but feel that she had forgotten! One
bath in tethe!"
"Apollo weeps," said she, returning;." there's luxury'
in tears: Rest and sleep now for the banquet; so orders

your surgeon: 'The patient must be kept quiet.' I obey.
When I return I will bring you trophies. Au revoir,
Donald."
The huntress left the sick-room and walked on with a'
free step toward the beeches. Her rosy, humid lips
pressed.each other close, end her inky brows almost met
with the dark frown which contracted them.
As she passed the snake-fence, which separated the long.
meadow from Baiquither, she came upon Blush and Can-
dace, who were enjoying their Saturday holiday in their
own way, strolling about, chatting, and getting pleasure
out of all things. Just now they were occupied with the
hopes and disappointments of a hog who was doing his
best to find a way into the clover.
Goody Ruddock ,had that morning mended a  break
in the fence with a huge knee of , oak, which, though
sound and available at surface, was hollow within, and
large enough to permit piggie to pass through it like a
tunnel. As the two ends were outside, and the vertex of
the angle within, he entered with a grunt of satisfaction;
and coming out at home again insteadyof among the liv-
ing green he longed for, he looked about and said " Woof!"
which was a grunt of wonder and disgust. His persever-
ance was worthy of success, for he seemed always full of
expectant hope with every fresh essay,. and his jubilant
"Woof " on his going in, and his disconslate "Woof "'on
coming out were so expressive of his emotions: his studies,
mud-colored studies they might be called,-with his snout
to the ground, and his white eyes winking their sparse
lashes, his renewed pluck with every fresh go were- so
funny, that the young folks had not thought of being'
tired of watching him. But piggie retired from his ca-
reer ; he voted the tunnel a fraud, and, selecting an easy-

lw

E UNTU G AND WAITING.


HUNTING AND WAITING.-

looking corner, patiently cast up a rooted way for himself
under a rail, and came out woofing and triumphant, after
the first little fit of sneezing-that was the dirt up his nose,
soon got rid of ; a mere bagatelle; the tatters in the bain.
ner; the foam on the winning charger.
Alas! poor piggie! his exultation was short. He had
not chewed his first cud of stolen sweets, when aJ sharp
click cleft the air, and a whizzing pistol-ball dropped him
in his tracks, "dead, my lords and gentlemen."
Returning the Derringer to her belt, Clytie the Huntress
picked up her gun and stepped straight on her way. The
two young people drew closer together, and neither spoke
while she was in sight.
"What is she ? " whispered Blush, who, it must be
owned, had not quite his usual ruddy color.'
"She is Olytie!" replied Candace, looking after her;
" that explains all."
While the sun was golden in the west Diana returned,
unsoiled, unwearied, with light footfall, and stood by the
sick man's couch.
" See-!" said she, "the spoils of the wood I have
brought you."
She pulled -from the manila pouch, whose pale yellow
fringe looked so pretty over her green habit, a couple of
woodcocks and half a dozen squirrels, which she spread
out before him.
"I have defied the.game-laws for your fake, and it is a
pity, too, I have such infinite respect for law."
Donald had picked up a bird, and was admiring it, as
it lay still and limp in his hand.
"Do you. always kill your game, Clytie ?" he "asked,
passing his fingers over its brown plumage.
" Yes, always," she replied.

HUNTING AND WAITING.

353

"Why, what a marvel is here!" he exclaimed  "you
have barked the woodcock. There is not a feather turned,
not a wound, no stain of blood! only old woodsmen are
ambitious enough to attempt that sort of killing. I am a
decent shot myself; but I never could do it; my hand is
not steady enough, my eyes lack truth; they play me false
in the very moment of fate."
"Your handsome eyes, Donald! You mean your eyes,
not your heart. Your courage never falters, your failures
are born of mortal weakness, imperfect senses."
"My eyes, yes !" he said, half impatiently ; "the blue
and the yellow, they hinder a perfect aim. I understand
the theory of the craft you 'have conquered, if I cannot
practise it. You aim a couple of inches below the game,
and stun it dead, and so no tearing, no disfigurement.
Am I not right, Clytie?"
"And a merciful way to murder, is it not? No marks
of violence, no trace of suffering on your victims. There'
are men who might take lessons from me."
"But who taught you, Clytie? I am amazed! such a
fine, feminine, dainty girl! Oh, I remember your father
had wondrous skill in woodcraft. I feel a dissonance, a
jarring. Clytie, couldn't you paint game-pieces, sketch
views, color flowers, and leave the hunting to men-to me?"
His head was bent, and his attention divided between
the bird on his hand and tha±~aiap~4
so that he did not know the effect of his words' on the
huntress by his side. Perhaps it would have been better,
if he had seen her face.
A deep crimson flooded it, and her intense eyes seemed
"to shoot sparks at him; her red lips drew back, showing
her white teeth, which grated sharply together. It was
only a point of time, a breath, and again she was as pale

hti { zr        _     vy
351

k t   i


'HUNTING AND WAITING.

as marble. She turnedand walked swiftly to the window;
when he next spoke she came batik, and answered him
with a smile.
"One day you will leave off barking the birds, I believe;
Clytie, you will pouch no more trophies."
"Withotit doubt, Donald, because one day I shall have
killed the fated prey."
Her voice had so hard, metallic a ring, low as were the
'tones, that it jarred upon his highly sensitive nerves like
an electric shock. He laid the bird out of his hand, and
again a slight shiver passed over him.
"If I were superstitious," said he dreamily, " I should
tell you at this instant some one has passed over your
grave, Clytie, and trodden also upon my heart. I feel a
sharp wound here;" he placed his finger upon his heart;
"a mortal pang. I shall get my death-blow right here !
I wonder when ! I wonder how! You will not inflict it,
my beautiful goddess, because you draw no blood, and
my heart is beating only for you. Your love will save
and keep me. I shall live in your sunshine ; I shall die
looking in your dear eyes---"
"What are you saying, Donald? you murmur so sleep-
ily that I feel no lot in: your talk. Come, awake ! think
of the supper ! of the pretty waiter-girl you are to have!"
"I think only of you, Olytie, now and always."

CHAPTER XXXIX.

PUILOMEN's DOG CCBOASTER.

CRISIS was approaching in Orchis' school-keep-
ing: Phulomen the Brave was nearly ready to play
his last 'card, just such a dirty card as a black-
guard like him might be expected to bring out.
The morning session was- about half 'over, when he
shambled into the room, followed by half a dozen boys,
whom he had kept playing truant, and at his heels his big
dog Boaster.
Orchis knew the brute well; he was as ungainly and
ugly as his cub of a master, and bore as evil a name. He
was what might be called a composite dog, having the
wide, bandy legs of a bull, the long, thin, sneaking head
of a greyhound, the slim, hind quarters of a black-and
tan, and the size of a mastiff.
Orchis watched the doings of the boisterous hookeys, so
evidently bent on mischief. They all faced her, with
their backs to the desks, and laughed and whispered au-
daciously in her face, while the huge brute squatted, loll-
ing, at his owner's feet, ready for anything.
"We have already curs enough without that one, Phil-
omen ; therefore open thee door and turn him out."
"lHe's goin' to be a scholar," replied Philomen, while
the others all laughed aloud.

354

f,

-4


856P     PHILMEN'S DOG "BOASTER."

"On many accounts I should prefer him to you, Philo.-
men; but as my engagement only includes ,two-legged
puppies, I do not feel at liberty to undertake his educa-
tion ; therefore I tell you again to turn him out."
"I tell you I shan't ! Now what have you got to say
about it?
"I- shall send for the trustees, and have you expelled,"
replied Orchis, whose face was very pale.
"Haw, haw, haw ! that is a good one ! Send away ! As
if I cared'a button for the trustees, or you either!"
Jimmy Whittimore, go and tell Esquire Redmond I
wish to see him immediately."
"You set still, Jimmy Whit, unless you want to lay
flat!"
Pretty Philomen. glanced triumphantly at the school-.
ma'am ;. and the boy, knowing what kicks and cuffs and
ill-usage he would get if he obliged her, remained in his
place..
Orchis' trial had culminated:, she must conquer now
or be driven out in disgrace. She was not afraid of dogs
a general, and very fond indeed of some at home as sav-
age as bears to strangers, but that was in the line of their
watch-duty ; this brute inspired her with disgust as a
monster.
The room was very still as she stepped slowly to the.
door, which she flung wide open.
"Go t" said she ; her voice was low and clear, and the
animal felt minded to obey its power. He took in his
tongue, and twisted his head uneasily, rolling his red
eyes and growling.
" Stop, Boaster ! " said Philomen, patting his head.
"Yop see he don't stir for you. He hates old maids like
pizen; he bites 'em. I hate 'em too."

"  Go!" said she again, stamping her foot, while a faint
col6r crept up in her hueless face.
The scholars watched in breathless suspense ; even
Philomen's toadies began to wish they were well out of
the fracas. Egged. on by his master, the dog growled
and stood up, ready to spring at the frail, slender girl,
who looked steadily at him, pointing to the door.
"He'll bite you, Miss Dunwreath!". exclaimed one of
the boys; "call him off, Phil!"
Orchis looked about her for a means of defence. A
broom stood in a corner ; she snatched it up, and lifted
it for a stroke, while the dog followed warily all her
motions. From puppyhood he had known the use of
a broomstick as an engine of wrath ; wielded by the arm
of Philomen's mamma, he had'felt it often; and as early
lessons are hard to forget, Boaster ignominiously deserted
his master, hung his tail, and sneaked out.
Thus unexpectedly cut short in the fun he had vain-
gloriously promised his followers, Philomen sprang up in
shouting rage ; drawing out his jack-knife and clicking it
open, he rushed at Orchis, looking about. as'fiendish and
nasty-wicked as "a soaring human boy" could.: She
raised her small hand and bade him keep off, but she re-
treated not a step. With Olytie's pistol and Clytie's skill
Philomen would have been in danger, but she was weap-
onless, defenceless, a slight young creature, and the knife
was ugly and sharp.
" Take that, old maid !" roared Philomen, as he aimed a
headlong blow at her beautiful face. His partial mother
would have been rather ashamed of her offspring if she
had seen the brute devil on him at that moment.
A vigorous grasp on his roundabout sent, him spinning
across the floor, twirling round and round like ateetotum,

P..rLo  Is DOG "BOASTER."    $

""+.
_. . ";


8

PHILOfEN'S DCG " QBOASTER."

till he finally landed jinder a desk in the corner, but too
late to prevent an ugly gash across Orchis' round fingers.
He did not stop long in covert either, for a vigorous kick
hunted him out and ejected him from the premises. As
soon as he collected his senses and felt safe he set up a
howl, running hatless down the road. "Murder ! mur-
der ! The schoolhna'am's ben a-killin' me !"
"I hope you are not hurt, Miss Orchis," said a familiar
voice.
The pluck and courage which had carried her through
the unpleasantness and the danger deserted her as soon
as the good, strong, hearty accents greeted her ears; and
Orchis threi herself upon the nearest bench, and, cover-
ing her face with her hands, she burst into a passion of
tears.-
"You shall suffer no further annoyance from  the
scapegrace, I promise you. Pray, compose yourself ; don't
cry. Jingo peltus !-no, not thatof course. I didn't sup-
pose you could sob like that ; you distress me, indeed you
do. What shall I do to make you quit it! Pll thrash the
whole caboodle! I'll keep the school .myself!. There!
that's right, now you feel better. Come, scholars, we'll.
have a general exercise on the black-board; let me see
how much of my teaching has dropped into good ground,
and how much has been foully plucked up. Now, then,
attention!"
Slipping back to her. arm-chair, Orphis dried her eyes
and listened to him, and watched him, and thought about
him: of all his kindness and unkindness; of the help and
strength he had been to her, and the dreary loneliness he
had left to her when he turned his. face away from her.
Suchan excellent friend as he was; such an only, never to
be forgotten, never to be replaced ; herfirst aid her hast.

PIIILOfEN'S DOG "BOASTER."
She did not. need to explain the scene of the. morning;
he guessed the whole from the climax at which he had
assisted. The. uproarious state of the school .had got
noised abroad, and had reached the ears of the newly-
elected county superintendent, who was called, by virtue
of his office, to give it his special attention. And .I
couldn't undertake to say that Mr. Plunkett did not also
indulge a hope of speaking a word for himself ; at any
rate, he was glad to be again near the only girl he had
ever loved; thankful to be her aid in a disagreeable di-
lemma.
Deserted, and put out of countenance by Philomen's
downfall, the scholars attended to their lessons in quiet
until the session was closed, in order andstillness beauti-
ful to behold.
When the last pupil had departed, Orchis shut the
door and stood among the bits of paper, old pens, and
rubbish, the accumulation of many sweepings from the
school-house. The rough wind blew back her hat, and.
lifted her soft hair from her forehead, but still she stood
with the great rusty key in her fingers; for Precious
Plunkett, the friend she had found and lost, was at her
elbow, waiting for her to look at him.
"Miss Orchis, are you still, determined to like me no
more ?
She pushed about the dead leaves with her foot, but
did not lift her eyes (she had no idea how beautiful she
was thus; how admirable her clear-cut features; how
ripe-red her lips; how exquisite the dark fringe of her
eyelids ; how delicate and quaint and charming every
way) while the color mounted, a faint rose-tinge, inlier
cheeks, and the fingers holding the rusty key trembled.
" I am not determined not to like you, Precious," said


360        PHILOAMEN'S DOG "11OASTE R n."
she presently; "1I do like you very much indeed; I feel
sorry you were not kinder and truer to me. I thought I
had got a friend for my whole life. - It was a great disap-
pointment to lose you, so great that I shall never open
my heart to-another."
"That's, right, Orchis, don't; but don't close it on me.
I want to come in before the door shuts. You remem-
ber the paring-fortune made me your sweetheart."
"Do you wish to be my -sweetheart, Precious?" asked
Orchis, fixing her blue eyes on his; "did you come here
to tell me so?"
"I came in   y    acity of superintendent to fix up
the wretches of oys, ho I knew were plaguing your
life out. I am g ad  came to-day; and being here, I
ask you a plain quest' i: Will you marry a fellow who
loves you with all his might?1 "
"You! Precious?  do you love me that way ?"
"I'm the very chap, Orchis. If you love me as I love
you, then naught can break our love in two."
"I do love you, Precious. You have been very un-
kind, and I have been very unhappy about it. Candace
says you could not help yourself; you had to be unpleas-
ant because I was troublesome with my flowers. If you
had said, 'Don't bring them, Orchis ; they are lovely; I
like to get them ever so much ; but you see these fools
are making fun of you,' I should have left off directly,
and we could have gone on with the German. We might
have got a good way farther by this time, and I should
have been glad you were so honest and candid."
"I wish I had, Orchis; but I had not-pluck enough.
You would have done it in my place, I truly believe;
but there is nobody so true and outspoken as you are;.
that is one reason why I love you so 'eeply."

PHILOfEN'S .DO "1 BOASTERA

'I.

." This is very nice," said she, turning toward him, her
face bright and smiling; "how small and trifling all m
troubles seem now; I wonder I could have been so
bothered with them."
" I am dreadfully ashamed of myself, Orchis. I should
like to drop out of sight somewhere. I'll never make
you unhappy again, so help me John Rogers !-there it is
again ! talking slang in the most interesting moment of
my whole life; but you will not: mind the boy that will
stick fast in spite of me. I feel so happy-you are going
to be my wife."
"I should like to be your sweetheart first, Precious.
Candace is going to be sweetheart to Blush, and I should
like to be yours."
"Thank you, Orchis. You do say the best things ;
and you say them so well. Now you are engaged to me,
I am sure of you."
" And Iam sure also, of course; what should hinder?"
"'Dear, good sweetheart, how are the poor cut fin-
gersi"
"Not very; bad, I hope; I have them wrapped in my
handkerchief. Goody will put on diachlum as soon as I
get home."
" You understand the fashion and privileges of sweet-
hearts, don't you, OrchisV "
"What do you mean?"
" They often kiss each other."
." Do they ? I don't believe Candace has heard of that
fashion. But I should like to kiss you, Precious, if you
can feel it right for me."
She did not retreat from his proffered caress, accepting
it in simple faith as a sign and seal of, betrothal, saying:
"Now my lips iare holy; my husband has touched
16 .  .


PHILOMEN'S DOG "ROASTER."

them: only, kind and good' words must come through
them for evermore."
Precious looked at her in devout wonder; she was so
radiant, like a saint; so chaste, so earnest in her candid
simplicity. Bit pretty soon the boy-fun would bubble
up to the surface of this youthful manhood, untouched
by care, untried by losses.
"I suppose you know that by virtue of my new office,
I have the right to visit all the pretty girls in the county
whom I can find in school-houses. You won't mindI "
"Not in the least, Precious. Why should IU What
was that line we parsed last winter: 'You had eyes and
chose me.' You didn't choose me then, though ; I didn't
choose you; I never had any-choice. I. saw you first of
anybody, and I liked you always. You are mine, and I
am yours as much as if the world held but us two."
" Orchis ! I never saw such a girl! You are the no-
blest, handsomest, darlingest ! Jingo Peltus !-no, not
that ;--I mean Pll be switched-not that, either. You
understand me, of course."
"I think so, Precious," replied Orchis, brightly smil-
ing.

CHAPTER XL.

DONALD'S FIRST WALK.

'YELL and healed at last! two good legs to stand
upon, two hands to serve me ; Richard's himself
again! You cannot leave me to-day, and go out
hunting by yourself, because I am able to follow you to
the world's end. Now, Clytie, we must take the stroll
you've promised me so long, and which I was thinking so
much about last night that I could not sleep."
"But, Donald, I. am afraid your new-gotten strength
will not outlast a severe trial. It is necessary for you:to
take care of it; you are a weakling, a flower."
"How like a taunt your words sound. When you talk
I shrink as if you stabbed me. I have to look in your
serene face to feel secure in the present, and you will
permit no reference to the dead past ; it is out of my
reach, I cannot touch it; no pangs, no remorse will recall
it, that I might do it better."
"Are you speaking to me, Donald? Really I shall
feel you rude if you choose thus to parley with yourself
when I am present."
"I but chided a phantom; it has fled now. Come, let's
go. Put on your hat; Iam in a hurry to be out in the
broad fields, the gorgeous woods; I want to see their

362


3~4DOYALD6'S FIRST WAgLK.
ay leaves flutter; I want to hear the fall of the brooklet
over the great mossy rocks you told me of ; I want to
know myself a new man, by my Clytie's side."
They took the;shaded lane-path where the encroaching
alders thrust their greenery, the sumacs already crim-
soned, and the towering chestnuts shone golden yellow
above their heads.
The clear air braced Donald's nerves, colored his
cheeks, and raised his spirits to exuberant gayety. Cly-
tie watched him, replying to his bright pleasantries. Of
a truth she had never seen the handsome man so hand-
some as on this autumn evening.
As they crossed the ford which led to Sister Polly's, he
began td hum an old familiar air, which was all linked
in, tone by tone, with the past in the library. He scarcely
ever sat down at the piano in those days without produc-
ing some of its strains. It was a part of him, of the life
that was wrecked: "I have lost my Eurydice."
Clytie put her hand to the pistol in her belt with a
quick motion, and as quickly removed it, locking her
fingers in a fast clasp as she did so. The rocks were
slippery with green slime, and Donald missed his footing,
and so plashed the water upon Clytie's skirt.
"Fatal mishap !" said he, "which does wrong to my
goddess; stay till I cleanse out my fault."
He drew forth his handkerchief, and, kneeling on the
turf, he laid the edge of her robe upon his knee 'and
erased the soil, looking -onstantly up into the face above
him as a devotee adores his saint.
"Now am I forgiven-?" asked he, rising.
"Forgiven !"repeated Olytie, slowly lifting her fringed
lids, and showing a strange glitter in the inky blackness
of her great orbs.

DONALD'S FIRST~ WAL.1JF
"Do you not understand the word'?" replied he gayly.
"This is the attitude of a penitent," dropping upon his
knees and folding his pahmstogether.
"You are wasting precious time," she answered slowly,
looking at him askance. "Men should stand erect; pick
up your poor mouchoir and let's walk on."
Springing to his feet, he dashed his handkerchief from
his hand with the petulant grace of a pampered child.
"You delight to vex me! but to-day you shall not sue-"'
ceed. I have come out for pleasure ; you shall not damp
it. Come, Clytie, do smile and be kind. AhI never
were such smiles as Clytie's, never ! never ! Thpy light up
my deepest soul! they kindle all my being into fire !"
They had passed but a few steps on their way, when
Mark Munson crawled out from among the bushes; and
.picking up the despised handkerchief, he spelled out the
name in the corner, "Donald McQueen;" and after
wiping his red-rimmed eyes on it, he stood, half-bent,
looking after the two with a strange, mean, malicious
grin on his weazened. face, before he slouched off towards
the deep wood.
At the foot of a great oak the pair sat down to rest;
Donald gathered the golden leaves and wove a chaplet;
which he dropped upon the high crown of Clytie's straw
hat, standing before and admiring her beneath it. "Lus-
trous sweet !" he murmured. "Now will you kiss me,
Clytie "
" No, not here in the dim woods, solemn and still; this
is a place to think of the lost ; the dead in their graves;
the spirits who watch us. Sunshine and briglhess are for
caresses."
"ILet us go quickly, then, where~it is most radiant. .You
promised me a kiss when you cooked the squirrels, blit


.DONALD'S FIRST WALK.

you would not come near me. Oh how coaxing, how
provoking you were in that cunning little cap ! how-
the dainty apron became you! I shall never forget you
as you looked that night. You have shown yourself to
me so many Clyties, that it seems all charms, all beauties,
all graces blend in you, most rare and wondrous one.
There! looknow! you are like an Alsatian reaper in that
braided straw; the masters never painted such a face ; the
whole world holds but one Clytie. Come,-hasten out of this
shadow. Ugh! the wind feels chilly ; I do not like it ; nor
the wail up there among the branches; nor the screaming
of the crow; nor the singing of the whippoorwill. I crave
warmth and cheer."
"Stay! see that bird over yonder on the larch! Shall I
drop. him for you before he fills his throat with song
again?"
"4No, no! do not stop his joyous life ; wherefore should
you?$ Not to vaunt your skill: that I know already; not for
the pleasure of killing,: that were unwomanly, cruel; my
Clytie can be neither. I would shower blessings on all
creatures this first day of my freedom ; besides, my god-
dess, you promised me to leave off hunting."'
"Yes, Donald, but not. yet; there are evil things that
must die: poisonous reptiles, dangerous beasts, whom
my good gun shall takecare of. I must rid the world of
hateful monsters, cowardly wretches-"
"Don't talk like that, Clytie ; don't look like a priest-
ess ready to slay the sacrifice; you make me feel as if I
were the victim."

CIIAPTERhXLL

"I IAVE LOST MY E  RYDICE."

GODY RUDDOOK had been hard at work all
day; a task had been set her, and it was accom-
plished in full: she had reproduced the old li-
brary, from the gold and crimson paper on the wall; to
the foot-rests and cushions on the familiar carpet; there
was Clytie's picture in bridal robes hanging in its place;
there the piano in its corner; there the great eaky-chair;
the cases filled with books. Every flower-vase, every
bracket, every fire-screen, each bit of crystal, 6f virtue,
and keepsake, each memento in its own nook.
It might have been yesterday that Clytie listened there
to her young lover's music in rapt delight, an hour ago
that he praised her loveliness and chided the tardy hours
that kept them asunder.  The whole place was storied
with the youth and joy and glory of her girl-life, misty
with her dreams and hopes.
Although the sun rides high, the room is shadowed by
its heavy crimson curtains draped into gloom; the light of
garish day excluded, and a flood of yellow radiance, soft
and mellow, beams from the student lamp on the table:
the same lamp at which the two friends read, the lovers
sat, dreaming and silent, drinking ecstatic draughts of
bliss from each other's presence.

866


"I HAVE 4OT MY EURYDICE."
Hl ere comes Olytie, robed in azure crape, with the lace
d rkhief knotted at the back, and the narrow snood keep-
ing in place her flaxen, flossy hair, and the moss-buds at
her throat; the Clytie-of years ago, in outward seeming:
slender, erect, serene ; but not the same Clytie. This
scornful gloom; those inky brows drawn together in a'
dangerous frown ; those set lips ! No one ever saw ths
Clytie in the old library, where the father read to them
In cosey comfort, the sisters chatted, and the elder one
guided and helped all from her rich capacities, which ac-
knowledged no lack.
On the threshold she paused, sweeping the room with
her black eyes, while a spasm of pain contracted her fea-
tures, blanching them to the hue of pale marble. Advanc-
ing with slow steps, she took down a painted vase on a
standard of gilded braiding :' a pretty, porcelain thing,
having for its ornament a girl's head, with such bright
lips, such aureate locks as Olytie's: and filled it with the
tube-roses and geraniums, she had just fetched from her
grave beneath the wailing pines. She leisurely arranged
her odoi-ous sweets; but exquisite in perfection as she
looked, her action was not that of a flower-lover arranging
her favorites; a lady decking her retreat to her dainty
liking. When, having finished, she knelt, with her gaze
fastened upon the Clytie bride above her, and her small
hands clasping close the costly medallion, which she wore
suspended from her neck, enclosing her father's head set
in jewels, Olytiminesti'a would have suited her better than -
the patient sunflower praying for grace and pity.
She is waiting for the bundle of manly beauty and manly
consummateness, and is restless amid her surroundings.
The pretty wood-lire sparkles and danceson the hearth,and
Olytie, after shading her eyes with her hand, feeling the

u"I HAVE LOST MY EJTRYDICE.i
lamp too rilliant, turns it low to dimness, an
in a conr. Presently Donald M~enet''
door, and, after gazing in troubled amaze at the well-
remembered objects, dreamily approached the piano,
and dropping his fingers upon the keys, finally began
grouping the chords, and playing half strains of airs, look-
iug at the Clytie on the wall, thinking of the real Olytie;
of the past, of the present, of the future. Unconsciously
he caught the theme he had struck that last evening of
his betrothal. A soft rustle in the dusky room, lighted
only by the fire-shine, and peopled with shadows, caused
him to turn his head, and find the lady of his thoughts
close to his shoulder, as she had stood that night when he
had ceased his music to lift his hands to hers, and say
"O Olytie, how I love you ! " His attitude and look were
precisely the same.
"Clytie, tell me something which I must ask, and
which it makes me tremble to speak; there lies such an
ocean of happiness beyond your answer."~
She turned her vivid gaze full upon him ; he was much
agitated; a sort of shimmer of love and joy illumined his
handsome features, glowed in his strange, eloquent; lus-
trous .eyes.
" Is tliere anything in which the nurse has failedL the
hostess come short?$ the huntress misspedI the pretty
waiter-girl blunderedI "
"Don't laugh, Olytie! you are too beautiful; I have
seen you look as you look now, to the tiniest bud at your
throat, the softest fold of your dress. Everything here is
sweet with the wondrous charm of my darling; then,
-you were all my own ; the hours between have dropped
into oblivion. You are my own now; I shall speak. You
16*'


7    - "-I HAVE LOST MY EUR.YDICE."

will be kind, you will be generous; you must be. Say,
Clytie, when will you marry me?"
"When I am no longer Clytie Dunwreath, and you no
more Donald McQueen!"
"Clytie, how pale you are ! how your eyes flash! how
terrible is your face ! Don't look like that, sweet, dear
Clytde!"
"Sweet to you! dear to you! And who are you ? "
"Donald : your betrothed once, your lover always ! "
"I have no lover. I had a betrothed ; he left me to go
to Europe."
" But I have come back to make it right between us !
to beg you to forgive the past; to let me love you."'
"Love !"  It was but one word, but enough to make
him hide his face; such a clear, hard, ringing tone, such
cold, pitiless blazing eyes.
"O  Clytie," said he in a low voice, "is it -possible
that you hate me ! have hated me all this bounteous sum-
mer, when you have been so royal in goodness, so rich in
charms ; and I have been so happy to be attended by
your care, fed by your smiles, healed by your sunshine ?"
latee ! I don't know that. I love no more since my
father was made to suffer unjustly, done to death by cruel
men, and no one came to pity him or me. I think my
soul died with him, is buried yonder in his coffin."
"0 Clytie, don't say that ! pity me!"
"Pity you! Donald McQueen.! Ipity you, who caused
me to live for five years behind these walls which were my
priso , a life so full of weariness and silence that I won-
der I  dnot go mad ! so full of horror that nothing hel4
me here but the martyr sleeping under the pines, who
would have missed my flowers, missed my care."
"But, Clytie, a life which has left you as if you slept.

99I 1AVE LOST MY EUR2YDICE."         71
So fresh, so beautiful; indeed. I find in you numberless
graces I had not dreamed of. In this lonely seclusion
like Arcadia, a rhythm of delights, a piquant, provoking
brightness and sparkle, a bewitchment which intoxicates.
Oh no-! not that face! that is the seeming of a cruel de-
mon, who charms to destroy; show me only the face of
my goddess who smiles ; full of variety; who speaks wit;
who laughs music. Clytie, you did love me ; you do love
me!
"I remember a sweet spring evening, when I stood be-
fore you in bridal robes. There! look! that is the girl I
was " (pointing to the picture on the wall, which a burst-
ing flame lighted into brightness); "the world was as
kind to me as paradise to Eve. I loved then, God knows
how well; I had better cause to learn how illl! I had lav-
ished my soul upon a spendthrift who wasted my life! If
you, Donald McQueen, had kept close by my side through
that terrible time, if you had shown enough manhood to
be my husband when I needed a husband, my friend when
I wanted friendship, my help when I craved succor, this -
heart should have beaten only for you in every pulse!,all
thoughts, all wishes should have centred in you, through
evil or good, till death, after death, if it had pleased God
to graht me such happiness!"
"Oh, forgive me, Clytie ! I was weak ; I shrank from
the taint; from the scandal; I could not bear to be pointed
at, gazed at, pitied. I felt then that I was disgracing
my manhood; proving myself a coward. I feel it now
afresh, and oh how bitterly ! I wish Icould have a chance
to undo the past! I wish there was any sacrifice I could;
make to cancel the fault. A 'good, long life is still ours.
.Do, Clytie, be generous! I'll serve 5you on my bended
knees; I'll be your trusty slave!"


"My father died in prison, while my bridegroom, who
had sworn oaths enough to damn his dastard soul, stood
aloof, and left me to breast the storm alone. You, Donald
McQueen, that faint-hearted poltroon I that recreant, tim-
orous craven, who fled at the first approach Qf trouble and
left your helpless bride! you dare to dream of forgive-
ness ! of happiness at my side ! If I could kill you with
a thousand deaths, you could not feel half of what I en-
dared while my sere eyes refused to weep,, and my heart
lay like stone in my breast."
lie lifted his hands .to his ears to shut out her ringing
voice, and bent his head low; as if her words wounded.
him. After she spoke no more, she remained motionless,
never releasing him for an instant from the intense gaze
of her black, black eyes.
"Tell me," asked he softly, after a little, without mov-
ing, "tell me, Clytie, why you have been so munifi-
cent in goodness to me."
"fThat you might feel the fullest value of what you cast
aside as worthless. I would not have you leave me a
faded, old, stricken thing; wrecked by your treachery.
Oh no; you found me beautiful, able to enthrall your
senses, to make your heart throb, to madden you."
"Oh !" moaned he," cruel! cruel! It would have been
mercy to have left me to die on the rocks outside your
paradise where I was thrown!"
"-So would I, had I been consulted; 'you might have
rotted there before I would have opened my gate to a
traitor unfit' to live. But you were admitted in my ab-
seuce, without my consent; and being in, I made it my
business to give back your health for my pleasure, for my'
rich revenge.''
" Then I am miserable indeed ! I will go out of your

372

{ir HA YE Las MY EURYOKE."

i
J
1
d
x

3  3

sight, and trouble you no more. I was stranded at your
door; I presumed not to enter of my own will. You have
done your worst. I forgive you, Clytie. I was weak ; you
are cruel; God shall judge between us. Beautiful, glori
ouis, terrible Clytie, adieu!"
While he passed from her sight she stood motionless,
the flickering flame lighting her features, making her
a statue of retribution among the shadows of the be-
trothal-room; her steady gaze fastened upon him, she
saw how the sunshine bathed himP in its ruddy splendor
when he gently pulled open the door. God's justice is
over all; 'she drank up the last longing, pleading, mourn-
ful, despairing look of those wondrous eyes, which, despite
all her cruelty, poured love from their overflowing foun-
tains into hers. He walked slowly down the steps, and
. out among the flowers; she heard his footfalls over the
gravel; she knew, though she no longer saw him, how
handsome he was, how gentle, how cultured, how ex-
quisitely toned to all sweetness, all refined pleasures;
how dearly he loved her; how sincerely he repented.
For one instant his words, musical, tender, loaded with
woe, sounded again upon her quivering sense: "God shall
judge between us; " and she felt as she had felt years
before, when to have been his wife would have been as
much bliss at her soul could hold.
She took no note of time; she had not moved- or
dropped her eyes; but after' a while a door opening
behind her with a heavy clang, roused her so muchsthat
she felt it necessary to shift her place, to go out beneath
the open sky, where there was more light, more breath;
more room.
She walked on a good way, and sat down under the
firey maples on the bank, and the sweet ferns she

A   DI HAVE LOST MY EUR.YDICE."


"I HAVE LOST MY EURYDICIY.D

35,.

crushed under her feet sent her a waft of their -spicery.
The great crimson ball of a sun, which was hanging in
the west, looked at her through the purple haze of the
Indian summer, and the cumulous clouds glowed into
rosy glory which enveloped her like a veil. .She pulled
toward her a stalk of asclepias, and idly opening the ripened
pods,: she plucked, thence the shining chestnut cones of
seeds, and tearing them asunder, she scattered them one
by one, and watched them sailing on -their silken, flossy
wings before the warm   south wind. His voice still
sounded in her ears: "Forgive me, Clytie: I was weak;
you are cruel !"
She looked down at two great round drops which fell
from her burning eyes upon her hand.
" What ! " said she wonderingly, "tears from my eyes,
which had forgotten how to weep! God knows I am
but a woman, a feeble woman ; I suffer still. Come, let
me hasten before my strength is weakness, before I have
broken my vow."
She ran hurriedly to her grave under tlge wailing pines,
and threw herself upon the sod.
"Father, I am here; it was but a moment's faltering,
a moment's longing. He loved me so much,! I am still
so young ! It has passed now ; I am thy faithful Clytie,
strong to do thy bidding. Do not despise me."
When she rose to her. feet, the chill and death in life
of her marble seeming had returned; and so much did
she feel herself gone back to her still self, that she threw
away the graceful dress, the azure crape so praised, so ad-
mired, the ribbons; the draping shawl, tore the buds from
her hair; thrusting them into the storied library, she locked
the door upon. them and it, and resumed the checked
homespun in which she had toiled and suffered in silence.

The heavy nigh hung drearily over her world, but the
moon was up, and she felt the house too narrow; the wide
earth was but. a prison of horrors, the wealth and glory
of it dead.  "I was weak, but you are cruel."  She
sought the deep wood-coverts; wandering aimlessly on,
she fell into the footpath she and Donald had taken the
.day of their long walk, she neared the tree beneath which
they had rested when he had woven the oaken chaplet;
she vaguely wished to pause there just a moment, but a
low sob caught her ear, a crouching figure met her peering
eyes. Yes, it was Donald, his face in his hands, his whole
frame convulsed with bitter weeping.
" Donald, I am here ; Clytie is close'to you."
Had the whisper found breath? No, she clutched fast
her throat, she kept it back, and turning softly, she re-
'traced her steps to the open fields. As she was crossing
a stile, she saw two men, who were going home from
Cherry Brook; their heads were close together, looking
at an object one held in his palm.
" How light th noon is," said he; "look ! I dan read
the hour. So much for a white-faced watch; just eleven
o'clock." Putting up the time-keeper, they continued
their way and left her again alone.

f

A
t

874

I IIA VE , ,L 08, T} MY EURYDIUE."


GRANNY MUNSON'S MONEY-BAG. 

CHAPTER XLII.

GRANNY MUNSON'S MONEY-BAG.
HEN Donald bade farewell to his love, and left
his crushed hopes at her feet, he walked on and
on, stopping sometimes to lean against a wall
and think, if it could be called thought when all his
being was blurred, clouded, darkened. He crossed the
pond, and kneeling on the bank, he pulled out his hand-
kerchief; and as h cleansed a fancied spot from the hem
of a robe he held upon his knee, he looked upward, talk-
ing to the Clytie of his dream..
Then the sin went down in the west, and it grew dark.
Away in the distance he saw a light; he bent his steps
toward it. He was sensible of no fatigue, but a light
suggested shelter and warmth ; and he needed both, for his
pulse beat feebly, and his very bones were chilled; so he
approached- it. Before he reached the place, he heard
without heeding, muffled screams and curses. They were
nothing to him; the whole earth was reeking with
blood, drenched in sorrow. He quickened not his pace.
But a man, small, bent, weazened, rushing swiftly from
the room, overthrew him upon the turf ; he was not
angry; but flurried and disturbed. He rose, staggering,
to his feet. His hat had fallen and lay upon the grass; he

I

did not stoop to lift it, did not notice its loss. There was
a cut on his head from the edge of, the old scraper at the
door-stone, which soon matted his curls with blood and
crimsoned his white collar.  Something, not fear, caused
him to leave the light he had approached, and turn back
into the wood. He recrossed the ford, delicately picking
his way over the mossy stones. Utterly weary at last, he
sat down under a tree., A plaited garland of gay leaves
lay at his feet. He saw it, picked it up, and pressing his
lips upon it, he hid his face in his arms and convulsively
wept. That storm passed, though, after awhile; all emo-
tions were. wasted; and feeling cold and miserable, he
crouched closer in a heaj, not desiring to move; as well
there as anywhere. But at the first touch .of a human
hand he sprang to his feet enraged, alert, dangerous.
"Kitch holt of him, till he tells what he is a-doing in
the woods this time o' night, Jim," said a thick voice.-
"I.illo I what's this?"
As they struggled with their prisoner, a handkerchief,
knotted, and holding a bag full of coins, had been kicked
loose from its hiding under the leaves at the tree-foot, and
Jim picked it up. As he did so, the bag slipped out and
dropped, and he set his foot upon it.
"Hold round your lantern, Dan, till we look." He
spelled out the name in the corner of the delicate cambric,
"Donald MeQucen." "We've got him! we've got him !
there's the very booty !" He raised and clinked the money
triumphantly before their eyes.
" So you are the thief, are you! Well, you ain't a keen
one; why didn't you toddle with the blunt ? Vamose the
ranch! iillo! he's all blood. Ugh! The old woman's
reek, I s'pose, the murdering fool I"
As he reached out pointing to the stains on Donald's

3i%


2'T8    O1A2'7X   ZftMr NsoN's JIONi'EY-iRAG

face, a blow of the accused's right arm dropped him like
lead, and it took a sharp tussle for the two to pinion and
drag him away.
Mark Munson, who had been skulking behind a fallen
oak ever since Donald sat down, slunk out when the
coast was clear and the sound of their voices was dimmed
by distance, wiping his red-rimm d eyes on the back
of his hand, peering and groping among the debris at
tree-foot.
"Yes, they've got it sure-ly, damn 'em! I ought to
covered it deeper, but the ninny came along and made me
hide. Well, 'tis in his own wife. How lucky ! as good as
a verdict . He's fit for hanging anyhow ; a meaner scamp
nor me: I never had his chance for a beautiful young
wife, and turned my back on her. He'll swing sure, and
I'll go and see the fun. Damn the old woman ! how
hard she was to kill,--and now her money-bag's gone with
the peelers. Well, I've got the will; i'll have the farm;
I'll sell it. I'll cut and leave that hag down there. I hate
her! She hides her money, I know she does; I shall choke
her some of these days if she don't give it up. What
the devil does she think I got tied to her for! she don't
mend my clothes, she don't cook me anything fit to eat,
and she hides her money; she lies and says she hain't got
none. I'll smash up the old pianny 'fore I go; she shan't
never t'ump out them old tunes no more. She'll be a butter-
fly afore she knows it, maybe."

CHAPTER XLIII.
SHUT UP IN PRISON.

FOUL murder had been done, and the whole
county was alive with it. Parties had been out
all night beating the woods, scouring the fields
in search of the guilty wretch.
Poor old Granny Munson was found tied to her bed
with her own clothes-line, her body burned to a crisp;
her hands were stretched at her sides -and tightly
knotted, and the rope so savagely drawn around her
neck, that her eyes glared hideously;. and kerosene had
been poured all over her, and scattered about the room;
her tongue protruded from her mouth,' and was found
fixed between her toothless gums and jammed out of all
shape with the force they pressed upon it, and the face
was horribly purpled-and swelled as in cases of hanging;
the organs of her throat, and vessels-of her brain were all
congested, showing not only that the poor old creature,
whose palsied helplessness ought to have protrected her,'
had not been burned to death, but that slow torture had
been her portion before life was extinct.
Aunt Ann had been the first to hear the noise; Sister
Polly and her husband being absent, and the other
peaceable old folk in a quiet sleep and lard to awaken.

378

ir


SHUT UP IN PRISON.

380'

SHUT UP IN PRISON.

They extinguished the burning; and in looking about the
place, had stumbled upon a very soft, fine beaver hat,
markedly the property of a gentleman., in the crown of
which was written a name, "DonaldiMcQueen."
The bag of money was gone from     under the old
cushion, and the chest beneath the bed was rifled of its
contents. The will, mortgages, deeds, which made the
poor crippled miser rich and miserable, were stolen, so
that robbing was clearly the ultimate end of the ghastly
deed. And the wretch was in custody, having been
secured after savage resistance; and in his possession the
missing money-bag, tied in his own handkerchief, marked
with his name ; his linen and his clothing all bore the
same stamp, as also his hat, found on the premises. His
guilt and identity were so clearly established, without any
trial, and his crime so revolting, that the officers had
much difficulty to keep him out of the hands of the out-
raged mob, indignant atythe base deed.
The only brother of the deceased, who was recently
married, was summoned to the shocking scene from his
peaceful slumbers, and was much cut up by the tragic
spectacle, weeping aloud and throwing himself upon his
sister's dead body in an agony of grief, insomuch that
he had the sympathies of all who witnessed the sad spec-
tacle.
This was, the newspaper account of Granny Munson's
sudden taking off: and Donald McQueen was shut up in
prison.
Griselda and Orchis had each a lover. Griselda had
lived through 'a bitter trial, where a lover had refused to
shoulder the disgrace of his betrothed; had taken care of
his reputation by going to Europe. Griselda lived in
the world; she was an active worker in its needs and

interests; she heard much, saw much of the poverty of
poor human nature. Now when this news reached her,
though it was only an inflated scandal, yet it, so far
involved her family that she trembled.. Only just out
of the old calamity,,how could she be certain of the man
she wished to marry i Her soul was knit to his by this
time, her life bound up in his. If Dr. Mattoon played
the poltroon she was forever miserable.
Orchis was calm, restful, pitying the unhappy man in
such deep trouble, wishing with all her heart that she
knew how to comfort Olytie; she trusted first of all in the
comfort and peace, in the strength and love of the good
boy, whose sweetheart she was so happy in being.
Which sister was right, think you, readers, judging from
your stand-point ? your experience-of men ?

El

881

.;
. ,  ,
,


CHAPTER XLIV.

GOODY RUDDOCK MAKES A SENSATION.

EOPLE flocked to the court-room. The day of the
trial had arrived; Donald McQueen stood in the
prisoner's dock to answer for his life. The first
face'upon which his look lighted, in its sweeping search
of the humanity gazing at him, was Glytie's. She had a
place exactly fronting him, where he could not choose
but dwell upon her features so white, so marble-still, so
passionless in their cold repose; the agony of his shameful
state was heightened a thousand-fold by her presence.
When he rose to plead, he leaned forward, pouring the
eloquence of his wonderful lustrous eyes full into hers,
which sent it back, black, deep, pitiless-
"NOT GUILTY."
The jurors looked at him, some of them with the evil
glance which common, inferior men often cast upon a
consummately handsome one: His physical perfection did
him no good office among his peers, and to the most in-
partial observer this fine-grained delicacy and elegance
told against him. His case was prejudged in the minds
of all; and as the evidence unfolded, the damning name
exhibited on the rare lawn handkerchief, his costly hat,
dropped at the very threshold of his victim, were regarded

I

GOODY RUDDOCK MAKES A SENSATION.         383
with disgust; tatters, meanness, dirt should go with such a
crime. All faces showed horror as they turned to the
prisoner's box; such a beautiful piece of perfection'as
they saw to hold the soul of a base murderer. It was as
revolting as mischievous venom in the full-cupped, glori-
ous rose,-foul poison in the pure lily.
As circumstantial evidence, the testimony was com-
plete: he had been found in possession of the booty-part
of it at least. There were papers, bonds and mortgages,
and the old love-letters of the deceased, which had disap-
peared ; they were believed to be hidden by the prisoner,
and careful search was made through the wood. If he
had lived a century before it is likely that. torture would
have been applied to him to extort a confession. He was
considered dangerous, having resisted his captors with
the vigor and address of a desperate ruffian.
The stage-driver was sworn; could only tell how he had
ridden outside ; how chatty and pleasant he had been ;
how he had been cast at the gate of the farm, taken in
by the old maids.
Then Clytie was called. She stepped forward quietly,
holding the shaker bonnet she removed from her head, as
she did so, in her hand. A swift rustle passed over the
court, and a whisper, " One of the old maids." She re-
mained unmoved, and gave her answers to the questions
in a clear voice, without even aflutter of shyness or em-
barrassment.
" The man came, maimed, helpless, to my house. I at-
tended him through his illness. Then, cured, he left me."
4 When did he leave your house?"
"Friday evening, the 20th of October."
"Why did he leave you on that particular day?"
"He was cured, and had no longer need to stay."


GOODY RUDDOG 1(A KS A SENSATION.
Where did he go?"
"I do not know."
"Had you formed no friendship for the man who owed
you his life?"
"Not the slightest. I never make friends.'
"Did he pay you for taking care of him?"
"No;,I did not heal him for money; he never offered
it,"
So secluded was the interior of the farm,. that nothing
was known of the past of the two, and the unrevealing
face of the witness gave no insight into the present-
Of course curious eyes, following his longing looks at her,
discerned the deep interest he manifested, but it proved
nothing. Olytie testified that the prisoner never left the
house, after he was brought into' it, except for exercise,
when she attended him. No glimmer of light was thrown
upon the case by her evidence, and she returned to her
place ; and her still demeanor, when dismissed, proved
her either unconscious or regardless of the interest and
curiosity she had excited.
The atrocious cruelty of the deed, its sickening details,
were dwelt upo nand intensified, till' all minds were in-
flamed against the fastidious gentleman who could calmly
plan and coolly execute so beastly a crime. They looked
at his white hands, which had tied the death-knots, stretch-
ing deliberately the wrinkled arms into place, pinioning
them carefully, saturating the body with the inflammable
oil which was to disfigure"the remains, and destroy his
victim; and so bitter were the rabble, that there arose a
movement .among them to take the law into their own
hands: the riotous mob who are often zealous to do jus-
tice upon crimes which have not yet found them out-.
While the lawyers talked and the trial proceeded, the

GOODY RUDDOUK MAKES A SENSATiQN

I

385

weary thoughts of the prisoner went over his life with
the woman before him; her beauty and grace and bright-
ness, and the sparkling looks she knew how to give,
while the saddest last, days in jail dropped from his
memory. lie was sick with yearning; -be felt, with a sob,
that he would gladly bear the odious ending of his mor-
tality which stared him in the face, for one short year of
life in her oppulent love; and the confused sounds of
the stifling court-room, where every one of his delicate
senses were offended, died into far-off dimness as his free
soul strayed in pleasant places ; no shadow between them ;
she all hid very own, his adorable Clytie ! rich in graces,
bounteous in a thousand sweets.
As the days passed, and. each morning brought him
again to the box of shame, he sought her eagerly ; and
finding her in. her place, he recommenced his pain, his
longing,.his despair.
When at last they could no longer drag out the agony
of the wretch who was foredoomed in the convictions of
all, they roused him to ask him if he had anything to say
why sentence of death should not be passed upon him.
He only stretched out his hands to Clytie in voiceless
agony. She remained mute and motionless, while he was
manacled and taken back to his cell, and her eyes followed
him to the door; her last 1V4 fell, like ice upon his
breast.
No sooner was he gone, than Clytie's vision wandered.
With the vivid recollection of that other trial, which
was ever present with her; waking and sleeping, there
came always a small man, meagre, sordid, mean, in gray
clothes, who sat crouching, with his chin in his hand,
away in a far, obscure corner.
Her eyes searched him often in these last days against
17

i


886   GOODY RUDDOCK MAKES A SENSATION.
her will, as ift he was part and parcel of all shameful
scenes; once she had found him watching, his lanky, faded
hair, his grimy, bony knuckles, his discolored teeti and
scrubby beard, even the untidy k h  Qf a red silk scarf he
wore twisted around his skinny throat, the same as when
her father was a victim.
A slant ray of sunlight hit him, and showed him to her,
the man of the dread trouble, the creature of hideous
dreams.
Once more she saw him, a witness on the stand, wiping
his red eyes, and blinking like a mole in daylight. le
was not able to throw any light on the case, except to
swear that his sister had-money and bonds, which were
gone. He was married; lived away from the village; had
not been up to the farm for a longtime.
While Clytie's eyes were fastened upon the fellow, on
this last day of the trial, crouching in a corner, a sudden
howl broke the silence of the court when all were busy
with the appearance of the doomed.
"1Hold him I Keep the kelpie!I the devil! till I tear
him in pieces. He is my brother's murderer!"
"Sit down there ! Silence the court-! Put her down!
Out with her!"
Goody Ruddock heeded nothing, stayed for nothing;
her strength made her way, and she pushed on straight
to her goal, her 'hands working and her eyes flashing,
while her deep voice poured forth curses in the abound-
ing consonants of her native tongue.
The swaying crowd closed in her wake, and she found
nothing; her enemy was gone. Clytie's nightmare also
was vanished. Common faces, ugly faces, deformed faces
there were in plenty, but the weazened, stunted creature
Wh wpeklhis rhoumy eyes was nowhere to a geen

CHAPTER XLV.

REFINED LIKE PURE GOLD.

URING the days which followed the trial great
excitement, prevailed. Report had spread that
the doomed man declared his positive intention
to kill himself, insisting that he never would stand onthe
scaffold, the sport and scoff of a curious crowd, enjoying
his disgrace as a sprightly spectacle.
"1 am not guilty of this deed," he said. "I abhor the
thought of it. I never raised my hand against a mortal
being. I turn sick And faint at sight of blood ; the very
recital of such a hateful abomination makes me ill. I tell
you now, I will tell you with my latest breath, I am
not guilty."  He said it to the minister; he said it to the
sheriff. .lHe swore it with a solemn oath to a visitor he
had in prison, one Dr. Mattoon, who made it his business
to comfort those of his kind who were thrust outside com-
mon charity.:
Griselda come one day secretly, bringing dainties to
the poor wretch.
Griselda, full of trouble, not daring to trust her be-
trothed, dreading his coming lest he might fail 'her in
this press of sorrow. ' She. had not said a word of -the
farm-life, since Donald entered the house, which she could
help. That a wounded man was shut in there heknew;

i=:
t
r


g88'

REFINED LIKE NTRE GOLD.

that Vashti had received him; that the  sisters nursed hun ;
that was all. Excellent friends, fellow-workers, engaged to
take each. other for better or for worse, the two met on
such a large plane of duty, that every confidence was felt
and expressed in their mutual plans and prospects, but
perfect silence had been observed upon the Dun wreath
misfortunes. He took her as he found her, and asked no
questions.'
"I die a victim to circumstantial evidence," said Donald,
to her, holding her hands, "which has murdered thou-
sands."
" Which  murdered   my father," replied Griselda
solemnly.
"That thought wounds me like a stab, Grizzle," an-
swered Donald, shuddering. "I should never have come
to this if I had stayed 'bravely in my place that-time. 1
should have been happy with Clytie to-day ; free and
happy."
The jailer pushed a plate of beans into the room, and
went his way, providing in the same bounteous way for
other criminals.
" I cannot eat beans!"said Donald piteously; " Clytie
cooked squirrels in wine, and brought them with her own
hands. Ali! how lovely she looked that night ! She never
would kiss me; she hated me. I. wish I could have known
it at the first. She bade me wake from my dream. I did
awake at last. This is a terrible awakening, is it not
Grizzle? Caged here! I, who never did a wicked thing
but one in my whole life. I begged and prayed to be
forgiven ; I wanted to atone. What can a man do more?"
Hiding his head in her lap, she placed her hand softly
upon it, and while he wept, her tears.fell softly.,
" Griselda, dear sister, will you grant ie one favor. for

REFINED LIKEZi PURE GOL
the sake of the old days, when I meant to be a good
brother to you?" said he after the fit of passion had
passed.
"Yes indeed, Donald, I will do anything I can."
"Bring Clytie here just for a farewell look."
"I'll try, poor Donald; but I am afraid she will not
come. She speaks to no one, is rarely seen by any; she
spends her days alone in the wood, regardless, even of
Goody Ruddock."
"A visitor to the prisoners " The door was unlocked,
and Dr. Mattoon entered, just as Gi'iselda passed out, so
that they met on the landing.
" You here, my Grizzle ! ma sour la bien venue, how
glad I am! I have heard a good deal of the sad story,
and I was hastening to-night to Cherry Brook to be near
you. Dear girl! what a sad time it was ! and how sweet
and true and precious you have come out of it; refined
like pure gold. Now tell me truly, are you not right
glad to have me for a stand-by in this trial ?"
Those were listrous eyes which Griselda showed her
betrothed.
"Refined like pure gold; yes, that is true of you, and
1 was fool enough to doubt you, to dread this revela-
tion."
"Doubt me, Griselda!" he answered reproachfully.
"If you knew the story of this poor fellow shut in
there, and his failure, you would'not wonder, I am sure."
"I.know it all, Griselda ;. I am not made of the sort of
stuff which shrinks or warps. ' In six troubles I will shield
thee, in seven I will not forsake thee.' Where do you
go now, darling?"r                           o
"Home to Cherry Brook this evening."
Then we go together', ma sour, which is good."

11


REFhNEJ) LIKE PURE GOLD.

A light heart it was, which Grieslda held int her bosom,
despite her sympathetic sorrow. One lover true.
The next morning she went to the farm. Clytie was al-
ready afoot, although it wasscarcely day-dawn, with her
gun upon her shoulder.
"Stay! Sister Clytie; I am the bearer of a message to
you from Donald," said Griselda.
Clytie turned 'her stony face, fixing her black eyes
upon her sister, waiting for her to conclude.
"lHe desires to see you, Olytie; lie begs you to come for
a farewell. I ain sure you will not deny him in his sore
strait."
"A farewell word! NoI will not refuse so small a
boon. I have it ready for sending, a proper message au-
thorized by himself. I got it in the extremity of my need;
I return it to him in his. May it comfort him as it con4-
forted me."
Disappearing within the library, she .fetched thence
from the desk of ebony, an envelope containing a card,
on which was written:
"Donald McQueen.
"Gone to Europe."
"That is. my farewell," said she ; and shouldering her
gun, she stepped away toward the forest.

CHAPTER XLVI.

THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW VINDICATED.
HE week of torture which filtered between the
sentence and its execution had lapsed, and the
last night dropped its mantle over the deeds of
all men.
The prisoner was lying on his cot. The watchman
looked into his cell each time he passed, obeying his stria-
gent orders to make sure that the victim was safe and snug
for the hanging. The whole town was full of rumors, and
bets were freely taken upon the catastrophe, one party
going for the condemned, who had sworn never to motion
the scaffold, and the other taking the odds, so that the
sheriff had reason to be unusually alert and anxious.
Donald had refused food, but they were not too tender
or humane to force the needed sustenance into the stonm
ach, which must do its work during the pleasure of the
officers; of course the wishes or inclinations of its niser-
able owner, being .a convicted felon, had no need to be
consulted.
The cell had been searched every day, the body of th
inmate carefully inspected ; and it seemed certain th4t n
weapons, no poison could aid him to keep his vow, end
avoid the bitter public shame.

I,

S9()/:


THE MAJESTY OF THE. L AW VINDICA TED.
Midnight, had passed, and the guai-d began to feel
sleepy, and cast longing looks at the bunk in the corner
of the hall.
What! what was that? a sob ! a groan! Unlocking
the door, he stepped swiftly in ; the prisoner was asleep,
breathing heavily, snoring in fact. The guard had half a
mind to wake him up, and tell him to turn over, and quit
that noise.
" I won't distui'b the poor devil," muttered he. "It's
his last sleep before the long one that never wakes ; " and
going softly out, he continued his watch. One o'clock.
Passing again, he paused to listen. This was no sleep; it
was gasping agony! horrible! stifling! panting for breath!
It might be bad dreams, though.
Looking closer, he saw that the man's face was livid,
his lips purple, his forehead drenched in cold sweat:; and
tossing off the blankets, he found his hands clenched and
his limbs drawn together as if in a fit. The felon was
dying!     --.
ie ran for the jailer, who flew to the shop, bringing
the .doctor, who had slept with one eye open, ready for
the swiftest emergency. They examined minutely the
head, throat, and body of the prisoner, and they found a
small puncture under the left breast, with a purple rim:
a strangewound: He probed it, not tenderly, with his
knife. The sufferer threw up his arms and groaned. He
touched a wire ! The sensitive, delicate gentleman, who
shrank from scandal, ran away from duty, abandoned his
betrothed, wrecked two beautiful lives by his moral
cowardice, had enough of physical courage to inflict and
bear the torture in silence, till the body sank so far as to
drop below the control of the soul.
"Will he die, doctors" asked the sheriff anxiously.

THE MAJESTY OF THE LA W VIPNDICATED. $93
No, not just yet, poor fool! If he had known enough
to pull out the thing, he would have collapsed instantly.
Luckily he didn't, and we've got him tight. Pour ddw
the brandy quick! give him a quart if it- is necessary;
stimulate him up anyhow!"
Obeying these humane suggestions, they made haste to
ply him with restoratives; and as he came back to full
consciousness,'his agony -was so overmastering, that he
implored them to kill him and end his pain. His livid,
convulsed face, his leaden eyes bore witness to the ex-
tremity of his sufferings. Instead of listening to his re
quest, or even leaving him alone for .the few last sobs
which might have finished him, they poured brandy and
the like down his throat, as they had done his rejected
food, so intensifying his vitality, and by consequence his
pain-throbs a hundred-fold. Oh yes ! they were men of
purpose, men of will; they were determined the felon
should not dodge the hanging.
In the morning, the sheriff, who was a man of bowels,
despite his occupation, and had had enough of the horror
to make him willing to lose his fees rather than see any
more of it, sent a despatch to the judge,- stating the case,
and asking for instructions. The reply soon came:
" The majesty of the law must be vindicated; let the
prisoner be hung at "the appointed time."

,_
.  .
9  4
-,            , -
i
^  -,r
1"
_,     " .''
., -  . a k r..


CHAPTER XLVII.

"GOD SHALL JUDGE BETWEEN US, .LYTIE.

NLY a limited number of spectators, could be ad-
mitted to the festivity of the hanging. It was
)&amp;' with great difficulty that Clytie Dunwreath pro-
cured a ticket; but she persevered till she touched su-
cess, and as soon as the prison-gates were opened, she pre-
sented herself for admittance.,
She tried several stand-poins for a view of the gal--
lows, and finally fixed on the most conspicuous one, and
from which the candidate could not fail to see her the
instant he took his place beneath the drop.
As the yard filled with people she was rudely jostled,
but she gave no heed, remaining motionless, pale as mar..
ble.
The scanty lines of her homespun dress' followed se-'
verely the symmetry of her beautiful shape, and her small
hands, clasped in her lap, held loosely a bunch of rose-
buds which she had fetched from her father's grave on
her way to the spectacle. Her shaker bonnet was pushed
back, and her lovely head leaned against a post. Such a
wonderful face, with its inky eyes so large, so pitiless, so
intense ; the hueless cheeks; the drawn, livid lips, untinged
with their proper red, the adorable lips which could be
humid and bright and glowing in their bewitching re-

I

"GOD SHALL JUDGEB BETWEEN US, CLYTIE      39
pose. The golden, flossy hair, framing it so strangely
floating so uncared for about it, lifted by the wind, till it
shone and glittered in the sunshine like threads of yellow
silk, falling where it liked in amber waves.
A space insensibly cleared around her, as the people
fell away from her, shunning her touch as if she had been
a white witch, a pale ghost-; and frighted glances dwelt
askance upon her.
Whispered, words, scarce breathed, pronounced her
name and coupled it with 'the defiled one soon to be
washed in blood. Bitsof her strange story were told be-
hind hands, drunk into eager ears, and followed by lifted
brows and exclamations of horror.
A young girl who waswatching her, said afterwards
that a spasm of pain contracted the blanched face once,
when a woman at her elbow was relating the details of
the unfortunate man's attempt to take his life, coloring
the story with, the most vivid loathesomeness she wasa
mistress of. But if it were true, it passed so swiftly that it
was scarcely visible.
So prone is the human mind to feed on calamities, that
I suppose not one of the spectators would have missed the
sensation for any cause whatsoever.
When the fatal moment arrived, and the dying wi'etch,
exalted now into a martyr by his sufferings, was helped;
pulled up the steps, his fast-waning strength was already-
such faint weakness, that when he stood in the place of.
shame, two hale fellows, who had abundant force, and
were not sentenced to be hung, were obliged to support
him on either side.
Such a ghastly sight was scarce ever seen,; such ashy,
discolored, fallen, tarnished features, such dethroned man-
hood.


39:;" . SODSALL JUTDGE BETL WEEN US , %YL1ThL"
It was worth seeing, perhaps, because this world might
swiag on a thousand years, it may be, before another felon
could be hung with a couple of inches of iron wire cor-
roding in his heart. Indeed, the sheriff was fain to hasten
his preparations, lest the abused heart should stop its
ticking, before the dread sentence could be executed, the
majesty of the law be vindicated.
One minute was allotted him to speak.. With scant
breath, but a fixed will, he forced his voice to.form the
words; low, but pronounced in such stillness of listening,
that all in the jail-yard caught them. His gaze was fixed
upon Clytie, as if she were alone the auditor he desired to
have, and all others were but dross.
"God shall judge between us, Clytie. Dear, precious
Clytie, farewell!"
The inexpressible tenderness and pathos of the words,
of the look, were never forgotten; for one instant the
wondrous eyes were flooded with their marvellous. bright-
ness, the handsome face regained its eloquent beauty.
They waited breathless; but though the victim's look
still fastened on the marble face below him, the glory
of his manhood was gone. A glozing film obscured his
sight, and his jaw dropped. The last sob was coming;
the betters on the side of law were in danger of losing
their wagers, but hate steaded them; a quick swing, a
heavy drop, and all was over.
With the sound of her name, every eye sought Clytie's,
and they went out hurriedly, pushing each other roughly,
to get first beyond the gate, willing, nay, eager, to remove
from her neighborhood. The yard was empty ; only the
quivering body there on the ghastly frame, and the slen-
der woman. Still she did not stir. A jailer came, and
touched her softly, almost fearfully, on her shoulder.- She

(

.
z'
77
ti'
uC
,

"GOD ~SHALL JUDGE BETWEEN Z7, ' LYT'I"  .39j7
gave no heed. He shook her a little, looking more closely.
into the upturned face; taking hold of her wrists, he tried
to unclasp her hands. They resisted his efforts; the sharp
nails were buried deep in the tender flesh. One drop of
blood colored her parted lips. Her heart had burst.
Goody Ruddock, who had followed her mistress to the
gate and hovered about, her great nature full of love and
grief and dread, entered now by virtue of her magnetic
womanhood, despite rules, to claim her charge. She took
the body in her faithful arms, and as she tenderly lifted
it, she whispered:
"Ah! shut yer eyes, bairnie, shut yer eyes; dinna look
up and up thus always. Ay, ye see.him still, even in
your death-sleep. Poor heart ! ye carried it deep, deep!
ye bore it still, making no moan. But ye're brak at last!,"
They laid her on her own bed, and dressed her for the
grave, but nothing they could do would close those lifted
lids, and the wide-open eyes still gazed upward; but as
the features settled to their last repose, the sickening look
of tortured endurance wore off, and a peaceful rest so
glorified her, that they fancied she might have lost sight
of the horror which killed her, and got a glimse of the
father she loved.
They opened the grave beneath the wailing pines, and
laid-her beside her martyr. "Of the worlds' ill-used are
heaven's blessed."

f

(


CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE MURDERERI s aEND.
HE sisters were gathered at the farm. No outsid-
ers had been admitted to the privacy of their-first
mourning; even the three best beloved of all the
mankind they knew.
Griselda read the prayers, Goody rounded the grave,
and the hush of quiet which follows great catastrophes
settled around them.
Griselda had proved the truth of her doctor and
Orchis' steady heart was full of rest in Precious; but
obeying her elder sister's wishes, she had sent a like nes-
sage to him: "Wait till it is over before you come to
the farm
"This is enough to overturn any love which is not
rooted in eternity," Griselda had said, to which Orchis
silently assented.
To-day the betrothed were to be admitted.
Cherry Brook was in a perfect tumult. Hardly had
the ferment subsided from the murder of Granny Mun-
son, the trial and hanging of Donald; than another hide-
ous crime stirred up, the people. Old Miss Petingill
said, f''It seemed as if Satan's thousand years of capering
had come."

I

THE MURDER'S END.

399

f
s
t
.,+ .
S
'        ,
4
C
.H*
L
+ .
}
{
s
Y
t
t
a
t,
t
Y
t
f
: y

+      ,

Mrs. Sacrider was the victim. Ever since she had. been
IMrs. 2Minson she had fared hard: "I'd be a butterflvy"
and "Bonaparte's March" had failed to charm when the
concealed wealth had not been found; the husband had
been not- only perverse, but morose and brutal, and the
poor, lone woman, who had.hoped to better her condition,
heartily isLed herself back to-her old state, her pickings
and stealigs and quiet,,once more; and she was dread-
fully afraiC of the man whom she had persuaded to
come home to tea.
One morning some passers-by heard horrid screams,.
and broke into the house by kicking down theory.
They found the woman in a shocking state : bruised an
mangled; her long grizzled hair, of whi~i she had ~eeV,
so proud in. her pretty youth, strewn about the floor, and
her flesh cut and hacked frightfully.
As they failed to surround the, house, the wretch of a
husband escaped through the back door, and could not be
tracked.
On   being  questioned, Mrs. Munson  said: "He
threatened to kill me. He found me at his chest; I wanted
to see the bag of money he had hidden there. He stole it
from his sister; I know he did. He killed her; he has got
her deeds and papers. There they are ! under the bed.
He is the murderer, not the man who wvas hung.'
Following her directions, they discovered and secured
the stolen booty.
"Let me testify, quick!" gasped she, " before I die. I
want him to be hung! he is so wicked. He has killed
me every pay. I hope he will go to hell! He is worse
than the devils."
Leaiig her in good hands, the crowd which had by
this time collected pursued" the villain, against whom all

1f
K
A
{
--5
Y
cZ
'7 S
' ' t
;i,
S
7

f" rK


40

THE HURXURDES EN1

were so inflamed that his minutes would have been few
had he been found.
Candace stood by the farm-house window looking out.
Blush was tabooed with the rest of the friends, and she
was very lonely, and the days were long and dreary.
" Come here, Goody!" exclaimed she without turning
her head. "See ! what ails the dogs ?"
All came quickly to the windows. There were Ajax
and Toss, not friends in general,-making common cause
against an enemy. Goody Ruddock opened the door and
strode out. Pretty soon she came back, and took Clytie's
gmi from its rack and began to load it.
",What is the matter, Goody ?" asked all the voices.
" My brother's devil is out there ! I shall kill him n! "
A sort of horror seized upon them, and no one wished to
be left indoors; they followed her, clinging to each other.
It was Mark Munson. What strange fatality pushed
him from one danger to another it is impossible to say. He
had crawled through a hole which Ajax had dug that
very morning under the fence in a hunt after a rat, and
had sought shelter in the great hay-barn.
The dogs held him close prisoner, and to avoid them
he climbed the straight ladder leading to the great beam
over the mow. He was -clinging to its rungs when Goody
swung open the door and raised her gun.
A dread fright seized him; he clambered to the beam,
tottered an instant, then fell over among the hay. The bay
was nearly empty, and Goody had left her pitchfork,
sticking handle downward, among the feed. Even she,
fierce, full, of revenge as she was, turned aside her eyes
when he dropped, and a fearful scream told his state:
the sharp tines pierced his side, and 'te spasm of agony
caused him to vault backward over the edge of the plank

;
,
r,
,
,
.,
,Y
- 'i4
E
_)
a  t
i- S,
i
: $+
i
a.'

r

401t    ,

which kept in the hay, and his back was broken past even
Vashti's surgery.
By this time all were gathered at the door, and Orchis
called off the dogs, while Goody, having discharged her
gun and missed her :aim through over-anxiety to hit,
dropped the unfaithful weapon and began to climb into
the hay.
" Stop, Goody! what will you do?" exclaimed Griselda,
hanging upon her arm. .
"Kill the kelpie, as he-killed my beautiful boy!"
"No need, Goody," said Vashti in a hushed voice.
"He has killed himself; 'he cannot live five minutes
longer."
." Then 1 shall tear the flesh from his bones !" Shak-
ing off the hold of the clinging hands, she darted upon
the sufferer, who glared hideously at her as if he had seen
a spirit.
"What have you done with my Randy, you murdering
devil  Speak quickly, before I stop your bv*th!"
"For shame, Goody!" interrupted Yasi4° "Let the
creature die in peace; torturing him won't hring back your
lost.. Hush ! he is going to say something."
Yashti raised hun a little and placed a wisp of hay
under his head while she spoke, holding. off the woman
by force of an authority she got through abounding
love.
It was only a sentence, the man uttered before he gave
up the ghost. Whether it did him any good or no, on the
other side, I cannot tell, but they all heard it, and it was
infinite comfort to the orphans. Vashti was the one at
whom he looked, to whom he told the truth.
Your father died innocent of the crime-A kindled":
the fire-- McQueen was innocent-I did the murder.

THID JURDE?R'&amp; &amp;N

1T          i


THE MURDERS END.

My wife-danin her i"-i He was gone, with a curse on
his lips.
Now came a knocking at the gate, and Candace sprang
to open it. "Blush has come ! " said she.
"It is Precious I" exclaimed Orchis. "Oh, hurry and.
let him in."
"My good Mattoon, I am glad-he will help us," added
Griselda.
It was then indeed, but half a hundred others also,
hunting for the reprobate whom death had caught before
them.
They would have dragged out and dishonored the poor
remains, but for the three men who kept them back and
hindered the abomination. Royal human nature.

CHAPTER XL1X.

CONCLUSION.
HERE is not much more to tell which you, dear
readers, will care to hear. Griselda married her
doctor. The news of the engagement, having
been broken at an opportune moment, to the Reverend Co-
lombia, was gotten over easier than had been feared' by
Griselda; and even the brave doctor felt a sort of sheep-
ish relief.
An adventurous pedler,-having stopped at the parson-
age to sell some spectacles, had quite upset the equanimity
of the wiry preacher by his'persistent supposition that she
needed them.
"I wonder who the idiot thinks there is here that is old
enough to wear glasses ?" she said, and banged the door hi
the face of the inmportunate vender. Excellent woman !
acceptable pastor! she still had all the frailties and queen-
ties of her kind. Being in this rasped state of mind, the
doctor's news was curtly received.
"I expected as much! Grizzle is too good for you or
any other man, but if she can't see it in that light it is
not my business to open her eyes. Take her, and be as
good-to her as you can."
Mr. Mattoon accepted the advice pleasantly, and was

402 -

1, "

-, ,         r
f  .
Y,          i


CONCLUSIO.

CONCLUSION:0

-
-ri
'; ;
i
.  -°        jj
i
i
t
e        o
i
':

waiting the propitious hour for congratulations and cheer
which was sure to come, when the lady got into a serener
frame of mind.
So in due time Griselda had her parish, and her name
on the door-plate of her beautiful parsonage. And she
worked like a hero in the place she planned for and
reached. And Dr. Mattoon put his name beside the mi-
ister's, as he had desired to do. I never heard of any
break in their harmonious living, and I know that Stead-
fast Goodlove invited her to the ministers' meetings in
Peaceful Valley, where they finally settled for life.
Vashti opened a surgery in the same charming village,
where she "sets poor bones gratis," and does a world of
good with the gift she got from Heaven and perfected
with care and culture.
Mrs. Plunkett got an excellent daughter in Orchis Dun-'
wreath. It took a little time for' her to find out how
good; but as the blur was wiped off the family repnta-
tion by a certain paper Mrs. Sacrider handed over to the
authorities, which duly proved who fired the mills, by'
whose plan, and what was the pay for it, she could make
no reasonable objection. And as the truth, purity, and
single-mindedness of the young wife gradually unfolded
to her knowledge, she thanked her only son fervently,
for the dear child he had brought her home.
Cynthia Redmond ran away with Alben Wragg; and
being taken by her. worthy spouse to a dog-fight, was
maimed for life by the fall of the staging; and thus be-'
coming useless, she was of course deserted, and led a
miserable life till Arabella took pity on her and gave her
a 'quiet corner of her home-where she rears chickens
and feods the pigs, her father refusing to have 'any cog-
nizaiic of his-disobedient child,

40A4

s
'             f r
_                       '

a
,
r
.;
t
t
t
Y
S

,c
f
F                  .
_ 1      .

: .
-

Christina grew and throve in spite of the, Hardbakes,
and was as kind and helpful to them as they were hard
to her. She married early,. but not a, missionary or a
minister. A nice young husband she got among the Roses,
Abel by name, and she promises to make a very indul-
gent sand tender mother.
Eflie was the only one of the Balquither sisters who
ever took a helpmeet. Arabella often said, "I feel
remarkably well to-day ; I refused two widower's this
morning before breakfast."
Candance and Blush are fast friends. She and
Augusta Blossom, whom she loves entirely, were several
years at Rosenbloom together, while Mr. Beach went to
college ; but the sweetheart is not carved yet on the
good staff which hangs over Orchis' picture in the room
the children occupied so long at the farm; and when
Blush adverts to it, she gives her nose a little push, and
"Not yet; there are more on the string you foretold for
hre that day in the lane."  I hea d, however, that the
young lady had a glittering ring on .ier first finger, which
I believe means as much as carving on a staff.
None other of my ten old maids ever took mates.
They will die in good time probably, and be gathered
to their mothers and the rest of their. female rela
tons.
Dear readers, the wisdom and folly of this world is
so mixed and mingled, and seen from such diverse
stand-points, that it ,if hard to bring them to a common
standard- which shall define their true quality. What is
one man's meat is another man's poison. What is absurd
folly to one, is sublime wisdom to his neighbor. There-
fore I shall be obliged to leave my ten old maids in yur

4O

,J., ,

r      /" :"


~\ I
4fX

CQWLUSIOJ.

han8at    ting you to set them over on this side or on
Ih ese e wer xe 'and these foolish."

JULIE P.

SMITH.

TUE END.

I

.  ,#°r

;
'a R

t1L
 t
r    \
t'


  
             
         
       
   
