
    ----CITATION----
        Stevens, William.. The Unjust Judge, or, The Evils of Intemperance on Judges, Lawyers, and Politicians .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7936
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The unjust judge, or, The evils of intemperance on judges, lawyers, and politicians 
            
               I
K

K

MANSFIELD, 0.

1854.

4

I'
!1

4

I

THE
UNJUST JUDGE:
OR,
THE EVILS OF INTEMPERANCE ON JUDGES,
LAWYERS, AND POLITICIANS.
-BY A MEMBER 01? THE 01110 BAR.
Go hear what I have heard-
The sobs of sad despair-
As mnemoryr feeling's founts hath stirred,
And its revealings there.
Have told him what he might have been,
Had he the drunkard's fate foreseen.
AN AMRICAN LADY.


4

Entered according to act of Congress, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and fifty-four, by the AUTuoR, in the Clerk's
Office of the District Court of the United States, for the District of
Ohio.

Printed in Mansfield, Ohio, at the Western Branch B~ook Concern of the
Wesleyan Methodist Connection of~ America.

Ct

TO GEN. S. F. CAREY,
The Apostle of Temperance in the West, these un-
pretending pages are inscribed. His eloquence and
pathos, upon Temperance, are associated with our
recollections of early school days. Before he left
his Alma Mater, in the morning of life, he espoused
the cause, from convictions of duty.; and again
and again have we heard the old college hail ring
with his eloquent voice upon this measure, then in
its infancy, and at a time when very much moral
courage was requisite to face the tornado raised
by an effort to check the fearful ruin. After cn-
tering upon the more active duties of life, he gave
much of his time, talents and energy, to the cause,
and is now growing gray fighting powerfully and
effectually its, battles. May he live to enjoy the
plaudits of a redeemed and disenthralled human-
ity.                          THE AUTHoR,
Mfangjield, Ohio, january 1, 1854.


U                       PREFACE.
AN apology might, by some, be deemed neces~
sary for throwing before the public a work upon a
subject which has already employed the pens of
many of the most gifted authors of the age, yet
there remains much, very much, to be done before
that dreadful incubus, intemperance, is driven from
our land,
Great ingenuity has been displayed by the poet,
as well as the writer of fiction, in portraying in
glowing colors this great sin of the day, and still
its turbid waves seeni to roll on, desolating the
brightest hopes of the human heart, little impeded
by the hitherto obstructing barriers,
The pulpit may become clamorous upon this
subject, and religionists may exhaust their powers,
without reaching the fastnesses into which this evil
has taken refuge. If' this great reformation shall
be effected, it must receive essential and valuable
aid from a different direction. The destiny of this
moral enterprise is now, to a very great extent, in


6                   PREFACIiX                                                           PREFACE.                   7

the hands of lawyersjudges, and politicians; their
action involves the fatc of this p1iilai~tb'opic incas-
ure; and hence, our characters are judges, mciii-
bers of the bar, and politicians. Even a suiperli-
cial glance at the springs of society, will teach us
that lawyers and politicians not only make and
enforce our laws, but manufacture a public senti-
ment that sustains or repeals those laws at their
1le asure;-
Unjust decrees they make, and call them just,
And we submit to them-because we must."
-and, therefore, th~ necessity of making allies ot
that class of men. It would be quite as ~eiisibie to
throw across a structure, wtih the view of drying
up the deep, wide, and rapid current of the mighty
river at the point where it mingles its waters with.
and becomes lost in the ocean, instead of cutting
off the numerous streams and fountains that lent
it power and force, as to attempt to stay the pro-
gress of intemperance by moral suasion with the
masses. This stream of burning lava that is, as with
the besom of destruction, sweeping over the land,
must be cut off at its source; and who can deny that
the influence of the bar and the bench has ever been
one of its main tributaries?
In the following pages we have drawn upon the.
bench, the bar, and the political arena, for materi-

al out of which to weave our web; and though
some passages may appear pointed and personal,
we disclaim any such intention, but insist that they
are leveled at the idiosyncrasy of a class, and not
at individuals.
A desire to arrest the attention, of the legal pro-
fession and politicians, and fix it upon the noble
enterprise of staying the tide of moral death that
is devastating the best interests of society, has
dictated the following work. If it shall fall short
of the object of our aim, we shall draw consolation
from the conscious integrity of our intentions.
THE AUTHOR.


.       CHAPTER L
This, above all, to thine owuseif be true,
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou cans't not then be false to any man.
Sliaksjwcw.
"What is the condition of your health and spir-
its," said Leblond, as with a careless air, he en-
tered the room of Judge Jones.
"My spirits are at rather a low ebb," replied the
Judge. "I have been retrospecting; ay, and pros-
pecting too, since we separated last evening. Con-
science, the great regulator of human actions, al-
ways troublesome on such occasions, has been do-
ing its work. I sought oblivion in balmy sleep,
but the god of dreams refused to come to my aid,
or to harken to my appeals. Anti to consummate
my misery, I've received, this morning, an item of
news from a friend and highly respectable member
of the bar, in the Northern part of the State, which
distresses me beyond measure." Handing the
letter to Leblond, he read as follows:
"My DEAR JoNEs:-
A rumor is afloat here I regret most profoundly.
It charges you with having been under the influ-
ence of mint julips to such an extent you were

*


10             THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                                  THE UNJUST JUDGE.             II

incapable of giving the law correctly in charge to
the jury, in the case of the State vs. TTamlin, in
consequ~n~e of which, an innocent man has been
convicted of murder.
Much excitement prevails. I will exert my ut-
most influence to allay it. Its effect upon your re-
election is to be dreaded.
I am, dear sir,
Very sincerely yours,
A. P. JEWLTT."
"This FJamiin~" continued Judge Jones, "was
indicted on a charge of having murdered his
brothei~. The testimony was xvholly circumstan-
tial, but tended to show that tile brother, who was
an inmate of the defendant's family, had been pois-
oned., Circumstantial testimony, when convincing
and irresistible, is at all times more satisfactory
than positive. While living witnesses, from inter-
ested or malicious motives, may falsify; an unbro-
ken chain of circumstances pointing convincingly
to the guilt or innocence of the defendant, may be
safely relied upon in the most important criminal,
as well as civil, cases; but always dangerous when
ambiguous or disconnected, and has ever been re-
garded by enlightened jurists, with suspicion and
distrust. Beating one or two circumstances of
doubtful character, there was no evidence of the
defendant's guilt. Of the utter groundlessness of
the charge, I entertained not even a doubt, and
was two or three times, during the trial, upon the

eve of requesting the Prosecutor to node pros~jid
his indictment, b pt perrriitted the case to progress
until the testimo i~y on both sides closed. While
counsel were engaged in the argument of the cause
to the JUry, I was absent, intending after my re-
turn to the bench, to charge the jury that the tes-
timony was entirely insufficient upon which to
~found a verdict of guilt; and of course, upon my
return, I charged the jury; but of that I have only
a vague and indistinct recollection. The evidence
of guilt, thot~gh slight, involved some of the most
intricate and interesting questions known to mcd-
ica~l jurisprudence, and very lialSle to be misunder-
stood by the jury, without a clear, concise, and ex-
plicit charge from the court* yet I am unable to
recall a single idea, or even a single sentence, I
gave in charge to that jury. All that, however,
might have been correcte(l had "Richard been him-
self again," before the final adjournment of the
court. I could have, upon motion, granted a new
trial; but true to the instincts of insanity, I re-
mained deaf to all intercession."
"Well, Judge, that is rather an unfortunate oc-
currence, and you have my prayers that it may
never again happen. I suppose, during the argu-
ment of the case you were out 'liquoring up.' You
must learn to touch modestly upon such occasions"
"Oh! it is more than unfortunate," said the
Judge; "it is. criminal, highly criminal! had I
dealt out the fatal drug which so tragically termi-


12             THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                                   THE UNJUST JUDGE.             13

nated the life of one of the most brilliant young
men in that part of the State, I could not have
suffered more from conscious guilt; and as for
your admonition, it does not go far enough, I
ought not to have, under the circumstances; in-
dulged at all. It is the most difficult of all under-
'takings for a man, already under the influence of
liquor, to moderate, or to keep himself within
1)OUflds."
Leblond here interrupted the Judge, by remark-
ing, that as to the effect it would have upon his
re-election, that vvas all fudge-a mere chimera of
Jewett's brain-but if adroitly managed, could be
made to tell powerfully in his favor-would se-
cure his election beyond the possibility of a
doubt! " Why," continued he, "rally around
your standard those of all parties whose sympa-
thies are with the hero of mint julip, and they
might as well hope to pluck yonder sun from
the heavens, as to attempt your defeat, under any
cm~curnstances. Their name is legion, and their
influence is beyond conception."
"Thqugh defeat,"' said the Judge, "from a
charge so grave would necessarily involve loss of
character, and my ultimate ruin, I would consider
it as dust in the balance, when compared with the
perpetual consciousness I shall carry with me, of
having been intrusted with power and position, and
that while in the exercise of that power I became
recre ant to the trust--lost sight 9f duty, and was

guilty of judicial murder-worse than maliciously
imbruing my hands in the blood of a fellow-be..
ins'
The fearful pangs of the deepest remorse had
seized the Judge, an&amp; was drinking up his very
blood. The more he contemplated his unfaithful-
ness, the more criminal it appeared to him, until he
knew not how to act, or what disposition to make
of himself.
Jones was formed, intellectually and physically,
m nature's finest mould. The son of wealthy an-
cestors, he had been cradled in the lap of luxury
and aflluence~-had received a finished classical
and legal education, hnd had but fairly entered
upon the duties of the legal profession when he
ivas called, by the almost unanimous voice of the
people, to a seat upon the Supreme bench of his
native State, with high hopes and a soul as pure-
as spotless as the ermine that enveloped him.
Judge Jones, in company with Leblonci and sev-
eral other distinguished members of the bar and
politicians, had, during the previous evening, been
discussing law, politics, and matters and things in
general, over a basket of sparkling Catawba, little
dreaming of the extent of the terrible tempest that
was about to pervade his soul-desolate his peace
and drive him to the verge of madness.
At the close of his interview with Leblond, Judge
Jones repaired to the Court room and adjourned
the Court sine die, amid the wonder and amazement


14                 THE UNJLtS~I' JUDGES                                                               TilE IJNJtJST 5UDGI~.               15

of the bar, under the pretence of important dome~
tic duties which imperiously demanded his atten~
tion at home- -ordered his carriage, and was soon
on his way to the pleasant village of B~ in the
Southern part of the State, where he expected to
meet a woman, "beautiful as the hourss" who had
"blessed him with her love and made him the fa-
tlier of her children." But, with his haggard coun-
tenance and perturbed feelings, how was he to
me'~t the amiable partner of his weal and his woe,
was a question that had not until now occurred to
him. He determined to acquaint her with all the
facts and circumstances connected with this in ost
unpleasant affair, an(l then consoled himself with
the reflection that his devoted wife, whom he re-
garded as the very impersonation of all that was
good and lovely, would at least sympathize with
him, if she did not pour balm into his wounded
heart and administer to his lacerated feelings,
and in the extacy of the moment he exclaimed-
"A wife! AL gentle deities~ ! uui he
W1O has a wife &amp;re feel aJver~ity ?"  /
But how fitful is hope, though the anchor of the
soul, and without which life, from the cradle to the
tomb, would be a dire ary passage-a dense dark-
ness, without a ray of light to cheer us on our dis-.
mal way.. The bliss of hope is often short lived as
the meteor's flash, which, when extinguished, tends
to make the darkness more keenly felt. When
hope ceases to illumine our path, despair occupies

its place, in degree proportioned to the fervency
of the former occupant.
Home gained, the horses were handed over to
the servant, and the Judge entered his mansion,
upon the threshold of which he was met by his
smiling and faithful wife, and two or three little
prattling pledges of their love, with "pa's turn,
ia's turn !" In the midst of this friendly greet-
ing, the following lines occurred to him-
hope fortim&amp;s cheating lottery.
Where, for one vrize, an hundred blanks there bc."
That from which he had hoped produced torture
more exerutiating than the rack. The Judge was
the soul of honor, and he felt himself degraded-
unworthy of such unmeasured devotion and affec-
tion.
Sink a man in his own estimation and you carry~
unerringly, the fearful havoc of certain ruin into
his future hopes and prospects, more eilectua.llv
than if you rob him of the confidence and regard
of the entire human family.
The condition of the Judge's feelings were not
long unobserved by the affectionate eye of Mrs.
Jones, who immediately, in the kindest and most
amiable in anner possible, set about ascertaining
the cause. He fully unbosomed himself to her,
and she supposing, what was the fact, that it was
his first flagrant departure from the path of integ-
rity, attempted to sooth his crushed feelings as
none but fond and doting wife know:


17

16             TlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                              THE UNJUST JUDGE.

I
I

"My dear, you have your own forgiveness-you
have mine. Ask and obtain God's, who giveth freely
and upbraideth none, and then console yourself
with the thought, that though to err is human, you
are not fated to a repetition of this unfortunate
and disagreeable affair. Your conduct has been
exemplary, and your character unsullied from early
childhood to the present. Your most inveterate
foes, ever ready to lend their aid to your prejudice,
have not hitherto dared lisp a word derogatory
to your moral character; for this reason, commu-
nity will be slow to give credence to any rumors
that may grow out of this unhappy difficulty, and
no man, whose esteem and regard are worth re-
taining, will attach any importance to your having
this once been so foolish as to permit yourself to
become intoxicated. If this is your last offence,
as I know it will be, it will neither impair your in-
Iluenee nor your standing among your political
friends. May I now entertain the hope you will
swear upon the altar of our affections that you
will never again touch, taste, or handle, the intox-
icating cup ?"
"I swear," said the Judge. "Though that may
save yourself and these dear little cherubs from
penury and want-from wretchedness and woe,-
tell me, oh! say how am I to snatch my unfortunate
victim from the ignominious scaffold? A doomed
man, around whom a tender daughter's affections
are convulsively bound-for whom a wife's heart

i~ bleeding at every pore; an innocent man-from
this cruel, this undeserved fate. Will my reforma-
tion rescue this injured, this wretched man, from
shame, infamy, degradation and death? It will
save those immediately dependent upon me for
character and support; but, alas ! alas ! it is im-
potent to save him, for whose safety and redemp-
tion, [ would separate with every dollar I have on
earth-even death would he a welcome messen-
gerif by the sacrifice Hamlin could be restored to
his rights, to safety, to his friends; and I relieved
from~ this bitter, 1)iting remorse."
"Is frequent drinkiiig a common habit among
urn members of the bar?" remarked Mrs. Jones.
She had, iii this inquiry, the two-fold object of as-
certaining the extent of the temptation to which
her husband (who wa~ coimtantly mixing with le-
gal gentlemen in different parts of the State,)
would be submitted, and to divert his mind grad-
ually from the contemplation of a subject which
was so well calculated to destroy his peace.
"There are many exceptions, but I regret the
truth compels me to admit that a very large ma-
.j ority of the members of the bar; everywhere, are
in the habit of tippling," said the Judge.
"That is hmost strange and unaccountable," re-
plied Mrs. Jones; "as I have always regarded
lawyers as far-seeing and sagacious men; men
well acquainted with the springs of human action
.-constantly on the look-out for breakers, as we
2

1,
4
I
A

16


18             THE UNJUST JUDGE.

THE UNJUST ~JUDGfl.

sometimes hear them term it--seldom allowing~
themselves to become emitangled in the meshes of
trouble of any description."
"Your views of the profession arc correct," said
the Judge. " The nature of their pursuits make
them the kind of men you describe. It is their
itinerant and social habits that make them incline
to this sin, which is, in its incipient stages at least,
if not through its entire course, a social vice. The
younger members of the bar, more particularly,
are all more or less addicted to it. Some, as age
increases, drink less, and finally quit entirely ;
while others drink more and more, until they ga
over the dam. The vice ha~ made heavy (h~aft8
upon the profession. It has carried off many of its
I          brightest ornament'
'Tis sad," said Mrs. Jones. "to ste men in any
condition in life, contracting habits the only ten-
t'          dency of which is to destroy; but to see young~
men, in the morning of a bright future, prostitut-
ing cultivated minds-men who arc to be our fu-
ture legislators, governors., Judges and high public
functionaries, is a fearful spectacle; one over which
humanity drops the syml)atIietic tear."
I             "It is a most insidious vice," said the Judge. " its
footsteps are not heard-its advance not antici-
pat~d until its ~ ictim is in it~ fatal coil. Lawyers are
more exposed to this vice than other men, for an-~
other reason," continued the Judge. "They have
4           more self-reliance thami others possess. This grows

4Tht of their pursuits. Their business is to man-
age and control, not only their own affairs, but that
of others, and have more confidence in their own.
powers. Intimate to a young lawyer, or even an
91d one, that he is nearing the whirlpool; that he
had better cast anchor and ascertain his latitude
and longitude, and he is insulted, hovvever remote
the allusion, or delicately made. He regards it as
an impeachment of his skill and ability-his feel-
ings are wounded, and he, probably, alienated for-
ever from a friend."
Judge Jones now arose and walked the room in
silence for nearly an hour, while Mrs. Jones would
occasionally attempt to break in upon his media~
tions by interrogatories, but he answered none,
and appeared unconscious of her presence. At
length he exclaimed, "In less than seventy-two
hours from this time, Hamlin expiates upon the
scaffold, a crime I am convinced, he did not com-
mit. Torn from the embrace of fond and depen~
dent friends, and launched into eternity, for aught
I knoxv, with all his sins upon his head 1-Jorrible
Horrible!! Who is to deliver me from this excru~
ciating remorse?"
Mrs. Jones, in the meantime, had become ex-
ceedingly alarmed for the fate of her husband.
Though she fully appreciated the strength and
vigor of his intellect, yet she feared the fierce con-.
tention of conflicting emotions might drive his
mind from its balance, and possibly, permanently
2


2'O              ThE UNJUST JUDGE~

destroy its equilibrium. Suppressing every ap
pearance of alarm or excitement, she drew upon
the fertile resources common to women of culti-
vated intellects, by modestly suggesting to the
Judge the propriety of seeking executive clemency
in behalf of Hamlin.
A gleam of light flashed across his disturbed
mind, and he cried out, "Why did not that thought
occur to me? By heavens, he can yet be saved!"
Ordered his carriage, and was soon at the top of
his speed, on his errand of mercy, to the seat o
government.

I~

CHAPTER II.
- Perseverance is a Roman virtue,
That wills each god-like act, and plucks success
Even from the spear-proof crest of rugged da~~ger.
IIaAY(rd.
On leaving Judge Jones, Leblond i~eturned to his
office, lie had closed the business of a protrac-
ted and laborious term of court, in which he had
woii golden opinions and reaped a rich harvest in
the shape of numerous and heavy retainers. Af
te~' depositing hi~ green bag, and adjusting and
arranging in pidge on-holes numerous notes, bills,
papers, and briefs, he threw himself into an armed
chair--his feet upon a table-lighted a cigar, and
amid
Thick curlino' clouds
Of smoke around his reeking temples"--
began the fohloxving soliloquy: "Well, I have done
a fine business this term--have been engaged in
every cause of importance tried at bar, and have
succeeded, in each, beyond my most sanguine ex-
~ectations. This will cause the envy of my friends
as well as i-ny enemies. Though strange, yet true,
that however anxious a friend may be for the suc-
cess of another, as soon as that success is attained,


ThE UNJUST JUDGJ3~

TEE UNJUST JUDGE.           23

lie will imagine its possessor is assuming airs and
manifesting a feeling of superiority that wounds
his pride, and frequently transforms him from a
friend, into an inveterate enemy; but such is the
human heart. I must avoid every thing that has
the slightest appearance of vanity,, and if I can re.
tam my friends, I certainly care but little how much
envy tortures my enemies. To succeed, and to
triumph over them, is quite a harmless method of
punishing them; one to which the most rigid mor~
alist can take imo exceptions.
"If Amelia could but know how fate was smiling
upon me,-ye gods !-I guess she would regard me
as more than "a poor and unlettered boy." I would
have freely given one half of my fees for the term,
if that lovely girl could have been present and wit~
messed my display and my triumph, (after several
years of toil and privation) particularly in that case
for breach of marriage promise. But, in the ab~.
sence of that gratification, I must content myself
with the consolation afforded from a large verdict,
one half of which, in the shape of a thousand dob
lar draft, is in my breeches pocket, and I the happy
owner. Had she been there, would she have turned
up her pretty little proboscis, as usual, and repeated,
"he i~ a poor and unlettered boy, with a strong
proclivity to dissipation?" No, sir-ee! She would
have done no such thing. She loved me; of that
I have never entertained a serious doubt. It was
her austere and aristocratic father who was inca~

pablo of appreciating merit under a homely garb.
The truth of this sentiment, from Cowper, has
probably nevcr dawned upon his unenlightened
imud
INo soil like poverty for growth divii~e
As leau&amp;st laud suippl~es the richest wine."
It has, doubtless, never occurred to the inflated old
toad, that our higher faculties are developed and
strengthened by exposure. to the blasts of adversi-
ty, whi[e the enc~~vatiuig cffec#~ of wealth and lux-
urv are often entailed Upon our progeny. lIe can
took wiih as niueh cool contempt upon the poor
and humble, as iU he hell nevor himself shivered in
the coil, (lamp shades of extreme poverty. He has
torgoiten Ihat poverty nerved his arm lent
strengTh to 1115 purposes, and enabled him to shake
it off and acquire immense po~-sessions. lie has
~Jorgotten that lie ~YtIS 0000 among the "knights of
ilie last," and as humble a member as could be
ibund in a week's travel, lie lIUS, I suppose, ob-
hiterated fi'e~n his memory the fact, that had he
pain promptly, the pittance due his over-taxed op-
eratives, he would not have had the m~ans of en-
aging in speculations which turned him up a for-
tune. This aping the aristocrat is seen every day,
but it always displays a great want of sense, and
the thing that does it always excites more sympa-
thy for his weakness than envy for his position.
"When I visit my father, and the home of my
boyhood, having heard of my fame and distinction,


'24                 UHE UNJUST JUDOt.                                                         Tilt UNJUST JUDGE.                 25

she may yet encourage my aspirations. If so, the
cup of my happiness will be overflowing; if not, I
may have occasion to touch the dormant sensibib
ities of the old "knight of the last." He may find
that he can't tread upon me with impunity, as he
has done in other days.
"Now," continued Leblond, "I must make some
arrangements for the coming campaign. Before I
leave, I must deposit with sonic eight or ten gro-
cery-keepers, in each county in the Congressional
District, a sum sufficient to carry the iiqtlor iimfiu-
ence. That secured, defeat nmst necessarily stare
my amiable friend, Jedediah Barber, in the face;
and I shall regard my election as a fixed fact.-
To-morrow evening we will have a bar supper,
crack a few bottles, and make merry. I like these
banquets; they bring us Scions of the law together.
where the asperities and bitter feeling engendered
by acrimonious conflicts, incident to the profession,
are smoothed down and varnished ever. Some
danger to be apprehended from the " flowing
bowl,", as we generally become a little mellow, but
our good sense must shield us. Theologians tell
us temptations strengthen virtue; if sos" continued
he, "I must confess, I am unable to see the phi-
losophy of "lead us not into temptation," unless
they mean that temptation only strengthens virtue
when successfully resisted."
Leblond was from the very vale of obscurity.-
flis parents in extreme indigence) wcre wholly un-

able to afford him the means of even a common
English education. Necessity, therefore, compelled
him to leave the parental roof at the tender age of
twelve, with ardent aspirations for distinction, gui-
ded in the rugged path of life alone by his lofty
intellect and intuitive sense of right and wrong.
It is seldom that one, so young is ambitious of fu-
ture distinction. But his mother, a woman of more
than ordinary intellect, fair education, and consid-
erable reading, had taught him to read almost a~
soon as he could distinctly articulate words. It
was her common practice to devote some three
hours, out of every twenty-four, to the instruction
of her son. When other duties drew unusually
heavy upon her time, which was not infrequent,
she spem~t a portion of those hours that other moth-
ers generally give to sleep and repose, to the moral
and intellectual culture of her boy, pointing him
frequently to illustrious characters living, as well
as those who had left their impress upon time anti
gone to their reward, and would stimulate him to
emulate their example. During the three years
previous to his leaving home, the daily aliment of
his soul was ambition.
Somewhat remote from home, he entered into
the employ of one of nature's noblemen-an hor~-
est cultivator of the soil. This connection, which
lasted for about the period of two years, was not
without its advantages to young Leblond. Though
the pecuniary emolument arisihg from it was


9

26

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

scarcely sufficient to flirnish him with the coarsest
clothing, he was taught industry and integrity,
which lie at tho foundation of success in every pur-
suit in life.
Before leaving home, his mother had taught him
to right a legible hand, and therefore required him
to write her two letters per week, and embrace the
first opportunity that presented, of sending them
to her by private conveyance. These she woul(l
sometimes receive in packages of seven or eight
at once, owing to the want of opportunity to send
them at the time of writing. When they arrived,
she would invariably aiiswer theni at the earliest
possible moment. One of those replies was as
follows:
"IN/li DEAR SON :-Your package of letters
came to hand to-day, and their perusal afforded
us much pleasure; particularly, the one in which
you mention your regular attendance upon Sab~
bath School and your success in memorizing scrip-
ture. The Bible is the will of heaven concerning us,
anclyon cann.~t bs~o~nc to~fauiliar vvithit. Your
father and I have each earned a little money, since
you left, and all that we can spare of it shall be
expended in books, of my selecting, which' we will
send you soon.
Could you know how much we enjoy from the
hope that you will constitute a firm prop, upon
which we can safely lean in our declining years,
you would not spend a moment in idleness, but

TILE UNJUST JUDGE.

27

continue to improve your mind with all thb assiduity
of one of whom the. future will require great and
noble deeds. There1is a bright future before you.
Prepare for it. The world will need your talents,
and as soon as you are prepared to perform valu-
able services, you will not be permitted long to re-
main in obscurity. Your qualifications will soon
be seen and appreciated by a discerning public,
and you invited to the performance of important
labor. Think of this when you arc in the field, and
elsewhere at your toil, and let it impel you to in-
cessant and laborious study. You will have the
same claims torbe President of this republic that
any other man can possess-the intellecti~ial and
moral qualities. No man, in this country, can have
any claims for high and distinguished political
positions, other than a peculiar fitness to fill the
place and serve the l~eople with ability.
I have many things to write, but will only acId,
read-read and think, and think and observe all
that is going on around you, without seeming to
notice anything; and make it a rule to throw
every man, woman, and child, with whom you come
in contact, under contribution for knowledge, and
you must necessarily become useful and distin-
g wished.                  YOUR MOTHER."
At the expiration of his two years' labor upon
the farm, he returned home; and soon after, en-
tered a small retail store, in the neighborhood of
his nativity, without any definite contract for wa-


K

THE UNJUST JUDGE.         29

THE UNJUST JUDW~.
g~es, relying upon the integrity of his employer and
his determination to make himself useful; where
he remained for the period of four years. During
business hours he devoted his undivided attention to
the interest of his employer, and consequently, be-.
came highly esteemed, not only by the proprietor
of the establishment, but the favorite clerk of the
village. His habit was, immediately after busi-
ness hours closed, to retire to his private r~oni,
where he had a small but well selected library, and
when his health would permit, remained there,
pouring over his books until one, and occasionally,
two o'clock in the morning. And thus, in the
course of the four years, he acquired an accurate
knowledge of English Grammar, Geography, Arith-
nietic, ai~d Algebra, together with considerable
knowledge of history.
At the close of his apprenticeship, with improved
manners, business habits of the first order, and
four hundred dollars in his pocket, he took up his
line of march for college; where, by the most rigid
economy, he was enabled to remain for about three
years. Leblond acquired, during the period he
was in school, about the same usually accomplished
by a college routine; and at the age of twenty-one,
found himself in possession of a vigorous and well
disciplined intellect, but without means-indeed,
in abject poverty. His education now completed
to the extent of his means he determined to enter-.
upon the study of the law, and accordingly ap~.

lv

plied to Sibley, a lawyer alike distinguished for
his legal acumen and oratorical powers; but not
less distinguished for his habits of tippling.
Sibley, once the pride of a large circle of friends,
with a practice that bid fair to make him speedily
rich, from the known and acknowledged social hab-
its of the bar, had gradually contracted the ruin-
otis habit of occasional dram-drinking, was now
in the whirlpool of that most destructive vice; in
imminent danger of gliding over the cataract. With-
out practice-without friends-without character.
and destitute of property, he supposed that a stu-
(lent of Leblond's superior intellect and integrity,
would attach some importance to himself, and was
therefore induced to receive him into his office.
Leblond remained two years in Sibley's office,
and assiduously studied the law, occasionally teach-
ing or writing in some of the public offices, suffi-
dent to keep soul and body together, and was
finally admitted to the bar with as bright prospects
as talent of a high order, a xvell stored, highly cul-
tivated, nicely trained mind could possibly harbin-
ger. Yet, some of his more intimate friends saw,
or imagined they saw, in his conduct, the effects
of his association with the dissolute Sibley.

"Q
29


CHAPTER ilL
Pill the bright o~1~I ~ ui~ e~rive board
~., et; ~)VP~~U~l 4i,~ P1
Suimnoll the gay~ the nobic and the fair;
Thro' the loud hail in jOYOUS concert poured,
Let mirth ~iA IIiIISiC Sound the dige Of care .-Sec/t.
Judge J;ones reached the seat of government in
the shortest possible time-repaired to the Govern-
or's office, and acquainted him with the object of
his mission.
After having patiently heard Jones narrate the
circumstances connected with the charge of mur-
der, the Governor, with no little sang [Thid re-
marked, "This man Hamhin, we are bound to sup-
pose, has lad a fair and impartial trial? Why
disturb the result of that investigation ? 1 under-
stand you to say, Judge, that you presided upon the
trial of this cause. Now, Judge Jones, a lawyer of
your ability ought not to allow a man to be im-
properly convicted. Yet if that should happen
without evidence and in violation of right and jus-
tice, you had a sovereign remedy for all this
trouble."
"Governor," interrupted the Judge, "1 have ever
detested a Judicial tyrant; and have, therefore, in
my administration of justice, contented myself

with simply giving the law in charge to the jury.
To go beyond that, would be a most unpardonable
innovation of the peculiar province of the jury,
and~ a flagrant violation of the spirit, if not of the
letter of the constitution and laws of our State,
which I am bound by the solemnities of an official
oath to observe."
The Judge had very minutely detailed to the
Governor the testimony in the case, and his Ex-
cellency being an able lawyer, and once a bright
luminary of the bench which Judge Jones, with
equal ability, had so signally disgraced with ap-
parent great carelessness, inquired of the Judge
what he had ruled the law to be upon certain close
and interesting' points arising on the facts stated.
This was a poser for which Judge Jones was en-
tirely ninprepared. He stammered, evaded, and
was silent. The Governor pressed the inquiry.
Jones hesitated, but being incapable of the base-
ness of falsehood, remarked: "I nmst have the
frankness to admit that I know not upon what
points, nor how I iwilecl the law."
"how can that be possible ?" immediately re-
plied the Governor. -
"Your Excellency is well aware that your honor
and myself have a strong partiality for an occa
sional mint julip."
"Mint juhip h-h,. and partiality the d-l!"
sharply retorted the Governor; quite as much dis-
turbed by the allusion to his own besetting sin, as

I

I;                                                                                             THE UNJUST JUDGE.              21

31


r

33

the outrage of Judge Jones. "Have you,.by your
infernal drunkenness, been permitting an innocent
man, of the talent and fair fame of 1-Jamlin, to be
placed in this most unfortunate and terrible con-
dition? I xviii pardon him instanter; but," con-
tinu~d he, "rely upon it, Judge, if a similar derelic-
tion of duty should come under my observation,
measures shall be taken for your immediate im-
peachment."
Judge Jones had passed through an ordeal which
humbled his pride no little, but his success in pro-
curing the pardon he regarded as a sufficient off-
set. lie, therefore, pocketed the paper and pro-
ceeded with all possible dispatch, on his way to
the village of N. where Hainlin was lying in irons
awaiting his fate, between whom and which only
twenty-eight hours now intervened.
The Judge, subjected to many vexatious delays,
arrived upon the railroad train, about six in the
evening, at the village of C. where he had received
the letter from Jewctt, intending to pass directly
on to N. and deliver to the Sheriff the pardon be-
fore the expiration df the time assigned for the ex-
ecution, but while at the depot during the water-
ing operation of the train, Leblond, anxious to
meet the Judge, made his appearance, and thus
accosted him:
"I am happy indeed, sir, you have received our
dispatch," and without giving Jones time to reply,
Leblond continued, "we will have a sumptuous

~ast and a glorious old-fashioned time of it, to-
night; a perfect burst-up, and no mistakee"
"I have received no dispatch," said the Judge,
"but regret to inform you that it is utterly impos-
sible for me to be with you."
"Then you have not received our dispatch," said
Leblond. " That is very disagreeable news. I
had hoped you received it, and were now here in
obedience to it. We shall have an exceedingly
pleasant time."
"I have no doubt of it," said the Judge, "but I
have been to the Governor and procured a pardon
for Hamlin, which II must proceed with, lest some
accident may detain me; and in that event, my
friend Ilainlin and I may never meet until in the.
presence of a very different tribunal from the one
before which you have been appearing, and I con-
s tituting."
Leblond insisted upon Judge Jones remaining,
and partaking of the hospitality of the bar; and
after exhausting every other inducement his fertile
imagination could conceive of, finally remarked,
that the train would leave at six in the morning,
which would afford him ample time to reach N.
before the execution could take place; and that, of
course, was all that Jones could desire; and add-
ed, if the Judge would consent to remain, he would
accompany him to N. the next morning, and that
was no inconsiderable inducement to a gentleman
fond of good company.
3

32              THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                               TILE UNJUST JUDGE.

32


I
II
1K
91,

After considerable hesitation, and expressing to
Leblond many doubts, as to the propriety of his
remaining over, permitted his baggage to be car~
ned to the hotel.
About eight that evening, Judge Jones was con~
ducted, by Leblond, into a room most brilliantly
lighted, in which was a table groaning under the
weight of every luxury of the season, and inter-
spercee plentifully among the dishes, were numer-
otis well filled bottles, of every size and complexion,
containing liquors of every character and descrip-~
tion, from sparkling champaign down to old Mo-
nogahela whiskey.
If demons and lost spirits are supposed to be
conscious of what is transpiring on earth, and ca-
pable of rejoicing at the danger and depravity of
those who are upon the probationary side~ of the
spirit land, what a general jubilee there must be
in perdition, over these drunken banquets.
"Ali Brandy, Brandy; bane of life,
Spring of tumult, source of strife;
Could I but half thy curses tell,
The wise would wish thee safe in hell."
Our friends, numbering twenty-five lawyers,
three judges, and several officers of court, all seated
around the festive board, now partook bountifully
of the viands, spread in rich luxuriance before
them, nor did they fail to make heavy draughts
upon the bottled death that graced the repast.
The 'cloth removed, Judge Jones was called upon
to preside, but positively refused. his feelings

34             TIlE UNJUST JUDGE

24

THE UNJUST JUDGE.
were not in unison with the occasion. His active
mind was, alternately, in the past and the future,
engaged in other matters of more weighty moment,
~-the bacchanalian revelry around him had but lit-
tie of his sympathy. What would he not have
given could he, on that evening, after he had time
for thought and reflection, been present with 11am-
lin in his solitary cell, relieving him from the dread
horror of impending dissolution? But-
"Experience teaches us
That resolution 's a sole help at need."
'This resolution th~ Judge lacked, and hence he
was drunk on the flamlin trial. He wanted reso-
lution when he was met by Leblond, at the depot;
and hence he was at the bar supper. He lacked
resolution when invited to preside over the dis-
graceful scenes of that evening; hence the post of
honor was conferred upon him.
A long list of unfortunate individuals who have
l)een guilty of imprudence, of folly; ay, of crime;
would have been saved had they been taught, in
carly life, the importance of decision of character.
resolution, and firmness of purpose.
"The indications are that we shall have-
"The feast of reason and the flow of soul,"
said Judge Alban.
"Rather a feast of nonsense and a flow of whis~
key," whispered Judge Jones.
" Where is Barber," enquired some one 'present,
"he is the soul of sociality and convivialitjy, arid
3*


Tff~ UNJUST JUDGF~J                                              TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.             37

II

ought to have been here. his absence creates
(1uite a vacuum."
Leblond took advantage of the occasion, by ac-
r~moniously charging' Barber with giving in his ad-
hesion to the temperance organizations of the day,
and wound up by remarking, that lie lIa(l actually
become one of the most excited fanatics in the en-
tire circle of his acquaintance ; that it was really
(lifliCuit to detc~ mine to what lengths he would not
go 'upon that and kindred fanaficisrn; that he was
quite to ilhbei'aI to enjoy a tete-a-tele with a few
friends, or even a good supper, when the fa tues of
alcohol were about the board.
Judge Jones repaired to the head of the table,
and took his seat as president, and thereupon.
(Irank the following toast:-
"The Bar-a pioncet' in the marit of mind. In
science and in morals it occupies the front rank.--
It has ever been conspicuous for its influence, in-
telli gence, integrity, and liberality."
To which all quaffed their glasses and responde(l
in three long, loud, and deafening cheers.
.Tones here turned and whispered to Leblond,
that the bar was not over-rtocked with morality,
taking that, and similar occasions, a.s a criterion
'by which to estimate it.
Leblond replied, that no class of men could in
truth, boast of a purer morality than the bar. That
their intercourse with their clients, and with soci-
ety generally, would bear the test of the most rigid

scrutiny, and would compare more than favorably,
with any portion of our fellow-citizens.
"So far as your views of the integrity of the bar
are concerned, you are correct," said the Judge.
"But I am at a loss to know by what rule in ethics
you would make drunkenness a virtue; and dis-
guise the fact as you may, the bar is fond of spi~ee-
ing, and drinks too ixmcii."
Leblond was now loudly called to give a senti-
ment, and anxious to deal a blow at his absent corn-
petitor for Con2i'e~ d~x~111~ LL~~ iuiiuxiuig toast
The lawyer who has'nt suffleient nerve to face
this array of bottles is unworthy of public confi-
dence."
Judge Alban, and several others, by this time
quite " mellow," siniultaneously hiceoughed, "that
am a f~ et ;" and all joined in a boisterous laugh-
icr except Judge Jones, who felt 'that it would have
been better for himself, for I tamlin, and the public,
if he had lacked upon that trial the rascally virtue
of facing a mint julip.
But, as hilarity and uproa~iowA joy constituted
the order of the evening, and Judge Jones feeling
~omewliat comfortable over his l)ardon, aided by
an occasional bumper, let himself doxvn-and still
lowei-until finally he became one of them.
The scene soon began 'to beggar description!
While some were hurrahing for Jackson, for old
Zack, for Matty Yan, for Lundy's Lane~-others
were attempting repartee and speech-making. At
4

'1

4
"I

4


38             ring UNJUST JUDGE.

THE UNJUST JUDGE.          39

this moment, the proprietor of the hotel, who had
been absent during the evening, made his appoar-
ance at the door, and stood for a few moments,
unobserved by his drunken patrons. Cowpcr
says that-
Even bacchanalian madness has its charms."
But it had no charms for their worthy host, who,
after viewing the scene before him, for a brief pe-
riod, turned in disgust, and remarked to a friend
It is claimed that Judges and lai&amp;yers are privi-
leged characters, but that transcend~ all privilege.
These are "priests who minister at the altar in the
sacred temple of human justice." These are the
men who make the laws and administer them.-
These are the men who give tone and character to
society, and rule the political world. I pray I may
ever be protected from such justice, from such laws
and from such rule. The Bar," continued he, "are
usually educated, and from the nature of their pur-
suits, become eaTly acquainted with human nature,
-are generally good public speakers-acquire
confidence in themselves-take the lead in politics,
and all the great enterprises that favor the growth,
prosperity and happiness of our country. With
some three exceptions, all the Presidents of the
United States have been lawyers, and their Cabi-
nets have been lawyers; forty-nine fiftieths of all
our United States Senators have beeii lawyers; our
diplomatic corps has been filled with lawyers; in
short," continued he, "all our great statesmen and

distinguished men, have been lawyers; and yet,
this is a fair specimen of their habits."
Though none had passed out of the room, it was
observed the crowd began to lessen, and upon ex-
amination, Judge Alban, Prosecutor Lahm, the
Sheriff, and a number of others, were under the
table and in the corners of the hall, locked in the
arms of morpheus.
Two of these disciples of Lycurgus, less up than
some, and lcss down than others, aided Jones to
his sleeping apartment for the remainder of the
night; where, in unconscious stupor, he remained
until after the departure of the six o'clock train
the next morning.

-e


THE UNJUST JUDGE.           41

CHAPTER W~
A politician. Proteus-like, must alter
his face and habit, and like water) seen~
Of the same color that the vessel is
That doth contain it, varying his form,
With the chameleon, at each object's change.
2ifason.
Barber was an eminent lawyer, and some years
Leblond's senior. A man of kind impulses, strict
integrity, and temperate in all things. Never
stooped to baseness, nor would he allow another
to be guilty of meanness with impunity when he
was the object of attack. lie had heard of Le-
blond's toast, and as it had been publicly made,
he supposed that even magnanimity did not ye-.
quire him to go privately to Leblond and request
a retraction, but prepared for the press, and pub-
lished in a newspaper 'of the village, the following
article:
"LUCIUS LEBLOND, Esct:
Sir :-Because we are competitors for the
same office, it does not necessarily imply that we
should engage in wholesale and retail slander and
detraction of each other. I have hitherto supposed,
that among gentlemen, the sanctity of private
character was never invaded, even in warm polid-.

cal contests. It is barely possible I may have been
in error all my life upon this subject.
I am a candidate, and should the people regard
me as "honest and capable," and elect n-ic, I shall
be highly gratified; but if success is to be at the
cost and expense of a sacrifice of principle-if, in
order to succeed, I must lay off the gentleman and
assume the ruffian, then I shall not succeed.
"Some rise by sin, and seine by virtue fall."
I infinitely prefer the latter. Will you occupy the
same platform? If so, I have no fear as to the re-
suIt. Should you, howev'~r, continue to stab me
in the dark, as I am informed you did at the bar
supper, a few evenings since, I shall regard you in
your true chat'acter, and act upon the principle
th at-~
"Kites, hawks and wolves tieserve their fate."
And here I may as well say, I hope not to survive
the day when I shall have "nerve sufficient to face"
as many bottles as, in your opinion, would entitle
meto "public confidence."
Very Respectfully,
J. BARBER."
Leblond had been, for some time, anxious to en~
tangle his competitor in the meshes of a personal
difficulty, with the hope of covering his own de~
fects, as well as obscuring the purer character and
more elevated principles of Barber; and it was
with that view he 4~de the attack upon him at
the bar supper. Leblond was a demagogue, though

41


42            THE UNJUST JUDGE.

48

a young man of superior intellect and consider~
ble popularity, yet he feared an open field and a
fair fight with Barber! He, therefore, determined
to attack him personally, and in case Barber re-
pelled with severity the attack, to fight it out as
best he could-turn everything to the best possi~
ble account, and as it aproximated the close, cry
out persecution, and in that way enlist the syrnpa~
thies of a class of men whom he could not, by any
other means, hope to reach.
The above note from Barber furnished Leblond
with what he deemed a sufficient excuse for attack-
ing him personally, in the next issue of the Ga-
zette, as follows:
"J. BARBER, Es~:
$ir :-In the last Gazette, you say you have
been in error all your life if I am a gentleman.
That you have been in error all your life few men,
who have known you during that time, will doubt;
and that you will continue befogged for the baN
ance of your days, their can be as little doubt.
Before the campaign closes, I will enable you
to see yourself as others see you, and that will be
in no favorable light. You manifestly desire a
personal quarrel. If this is your wish, you shall
be gratified to the extent of your inclination. I
will expose to the public gaze some of your infamy
in your private relations and professional charac-
ter, which will cause the 1*od to mantle your
~beek if you are not an entire stranger to sensibil-

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

ity. How far you will then be able to avail your-
self of advantage from an alliance with temper-
ance organizations, will remain to be seen.
Very Respectfully,
L. LEBLOND."
The Congressional District was composed mainly
of new counties, and numerous public improve-
ments in, and through the territory, were in a state
of progression, and Leblond flattered himself if he
could raise the temperance issue with Barber, he
could defeat him with entire ease; that if he could
rally around him the whole of the foreign popula-
tion upon the public works, and the undivided
liquor influence; victory must necessarily perch
upon his banner. It was for this purpose Leblond
sought to draw Barber out upon the temperance
question.
Barber was frank and honest, if possible, to a
fault. Intendii~g nothing but fairness, was slow
to suspect its opposite in others.
Peeling himself deeply aggrieved by the personal
attack of Leblond, in the last Gazette, replied to
h~m as follows:
"L. LEBLOND, Es~:
Sir :-Your attack upon me, in the Gazette
of last week, was beyond that of which I conceived
you capable. From an intimate private and pro-
fessional intercourse with you, I have lately re.


44             TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                          TilE UNJUST JUDGE~            45

guarded you as equal to any act of baseness; yet I
could scarcely believe you an ingrate.
-~ "If there be a crime
Of deeper die than all the guilty train
Of human vices, 'tis ii~gratitude."
From me, sir, you have received more than from
all the rest of the world. I took you by the hand
when destitution was your only portion. With
more than parental interest and solicitude, I watch-
ed the budding of what I regarded, at that time,
of a superior intellect. XYhile I mourned over
your tendencies to vice and immorality, I lifted you
into the profession which you have disgraced, and
so long as you remain intemperate, will continue
to disgrace. I have made you all you arc, or can
be, beating your imperfections and what have you
given in return l)Lit the basest ingratitude and (IC-
traction? if I have not mist aken the signs of the
times, you will soon be a miserable bloat! Your
Presence will contaminate the ye.ry atmosphere in
which you move and brealhe ! !-" A walking pes-
tile nec-a libel upon human nature."
In the prostitution of your talents, you do your-
self and community great injustice. I need scarce-
ly say, you are in the possession of sufficient in-
tellect, if properly dircctedio make yourself emi-
nently useful. But, most unfortunately for your-
self and those with whom you are, and ever will
be associated, you have entirely omitted the culti-
vation of the heart and the moral faculties. When

the head has been cultivated, and moral culture
overlooked-when the whole region of the heart
and soul becomes a desolate waste, inhabited only
by the fiercest passions of our nature, and over-
grown with noxious plants, the possessor be-
comes dangerotis to the most important inter-
ests of God and humanity, in proportion as he
has povvcr and vigor of intellect.
You may blacken my character for the time be-
ing, but the iutpinsic ~ alue of virtue, like that of
gold, cannot be impaired, though they may both
J)e tarnished. The one by corroding substances,
aiul the other by foul aspersion.
My life, public and private, is now 1 efore the
people of this Congressional District. I court a
fair, a manly; a close, and a thorough examination
of my every act, public and private. Sift the mat-
ter and cx amine into all the particulars; and if my
character will not bear the touch of the most rioid
in vestigatioi~, I pledge all I hold sacred in life im-
mediately to withdraw my name from before the
jiiblic. Will you; dare you, say as much?
Fairness is a duty we alike owe ourselves and
the electors of our district.
You seek, I doubt not for a base purpose, to
draw from me an admission of an alliance with
the temperance organizations of the district. This
I could not do for the very plain and simple reason
that it is not the fact. I am, however, in favor of
temperance and sobriety in all things. But here I

9


46            THE UNJUST JUDQE,

will say, I should regard the universal reign of the
Maine law, or a p'ohibitory law, similar in its fea-
tures, in every State in this Union, as an indica-
tion that God, in the plenitude of his mercy, was
smiling upon our highly favored Republic; Why
we should have in common use, as a beverage, al-
coholic drinks, from which no man can derive any
advantage, but from which unnumbered scores are
deriving serious detriment, while the moral atmos~
phere, through its influence, assumes the shape of
contagion itself, and life, happiness, intelligence
and all the social virtues are suffering from it~ con-
tact is, and ever has been to me, a profound mys-
tery. And why a man of sober and temperate
habits could not with as much ability and distinc-
tion, represent the people of this district in the halls
of our national legislature, as if he had " strong
proclivities to dissipation," is also somewhat mys~
serious.
The object of your temperance allusion is dis-
tinctly understood. But my unbounded confidence
in the virtue and wisdom of the masses, enables
me to regard your base and infamous mode of elec-
tioneering, with the contempt it merits.
Respectfully,
J. BARBER."
Leblond, now that Barber had completely com-
mitted himself upon a prohibitory liquor law, was
satisfied he had him in the net he had been spread-
ing for him, and that all he had to do was to spring it.

40

TUE UNJUST JUDGE.
This he determined to do with adroitness and dis-
patch, lie, accordingly, abandoned all idea of vis-
iting the home of his early youth-entered vigor-
ously into the campaign, upon the principle that
"eternal vigilance is the price of" political success.
his first move was tQ procure a copy of the Ga-
zette, containing Barber's communication. This
he carried with him, and invariably, but cautiously,
felt about and sounded every man whom he met,
and if he found him opposed to the Maine law he
would carefully read to him that portion of the ar-
ticle in which Barber expressed his desire to see
the Maine law in force in every State in the Union;
usually remarking, that it was a fearful invasion
of our rights, and that if these fanatics were per-
mitted, with their wild and extravagant opinions
and notions, to govern us, our liberties would cease
to be little else than an empty name-that" fanat-
ics are governed rather by imagination than judg-
inent." That if an individual saw proper to get
drunk and continue in that condition until he chose
to do differently, it was a matter that concerned
and interested himself, and him only. Carefully
evading an allusion to the mighty retinue of dis-
case, wretchedness, 4sery, woe, debauchery, pau-
perism, crime and d$ath that followed in the train
of this unbridled liberty of getting drunk at pleas-
nrc.
Leblond was amply skilled in the use of the
weapons of that most detestable character-the


demagogue; and was in addition, a ~hrewd, saga~
cious, and far-seeing politician, lie was, literally,
all things to all men. While he was carrying
around his money and depositing it in the taverns
and groceries, for the wicked and abominable pur-
pose of treating his friends upon election day, and
thereby indirectly, if not directly, buying votes, he
was cautioning those with whom he left the money,
to be exceedingly careful that the old deacons, and
certain others whom he supposed would reprobate
that practice, should know nothing about his lib-
erality, lest they might use it against him in cer-
tain quarters.
When he came in contact with the sober, virtu-
ous, and better portion of community, he professed
to detest dissipation in all its various forms-said
he would occasionally take a dram, but not often
-was actually opposed to the practice of tippling
-thought tippling begat drunkenness; that drunk-
enness ought to be, by law, severely punished as a
crime. His close observation of men enabled him
to determine with unerring certainty, whether he
could talk temperance, or anti-temperance; and
always suited himself to the occasion. We find
him making it convenient to be in the neighbor-
hood of a temperance meeting where he had sent
one of his satellites, who called him as he was ri-
ding by. Leblond stopped, tied his horse, an(l
went into the crowd; and aftem' having been in-
formed, by his friend who had invited him to stop,

g
i

that all were temperance men, and that he could
with safety discourse temperance sentiment, he
went on to remark, that he had heard some men
claim that it was an improper abridgement of our
liberties to restrain us from immoderate drinking,
but that was all consummate nonsense. The pub-
lic had rights-society had interests that must not
be overlooked. We had laws for the prevention
of profanity and the violation of the Sabbath-Li-
bel-a thousand and one other crimes and offen-
ces, which the good of community required should
he prohibited, and yet those laws were universally
regarded as good and wholesome-as laws that
tended to promote the best interests of the people;
and therefore, were not only tolerated, but deemed
essential to the welfare of community. And added,
if it could be shown that drunkenness was an of-
fence against society, (and no sane man doubted
it,) then it was not an invasion of our liberties to
restrain intemperance.
Leblond then went into a very learned discus-
sion of the difference between natural liberty-that
which man enjoyed before the organization of so-
ciety-and civil liberty, which grew out of his re-
lations to mankind. Admitted that a man had, in a
state of nature, before society was formed, a right
to do what he chose, or desired; but when he enter~
ed into the compact, he voluntarily gave up and sur-
rendered that part of his natural liberty that con-
flicted with the good of community, or'the rights of oth-
4

48                THE UNJUST JUDGfl.                                                    TIlE tLN3UST J~(3DGE.            49

48

49


THE UNJUST JUDc~X                                       ThE UNJUST JUDGE.           51

ers, as the initiation fc~ of becomin~~ a ulenhl)cr of
society. And claimed, that if in no other point of
view it could he regarded as an offence against
society, it certainly was in this, that when a man
became a member of community it had claims up-
on hini to the full extent of his intellectual and
moral powers ; that a prostitution of those powers
was a loss to the public, to say nothing of the de-
moraIi~ing efi~ct of the example.
* While Leblond was traveling the district, suit-
ing himself to every hue anti complexion of ei~ar~
acter with which he caine in contact-now drink-
mg-n ow abs taining-he~e lecturing en temp cr~
ance (privately, of course,) there besetting himself;
in one circle condemning, in most unmeasured
terms, the man who would drink even moderately;
and in the next crowd, in just as unmeasured terms,
censuring the illiberality of temperance advocates
-using every means in his power, honorable and
dishonorable, to effect his election,-l3arber was
also passing through the district with but one set
of principles; professing, at all times, to be noth-
ing more or less than what he was; and upon
suitable occasions, avowing frankly his desire to
see a prohibitory liquor law placed upon the stat-
ute books of the State. lie was also holding
meetings, and in a fair, manly, but masterly man-
ner, discussing the questions that separated them
a~s the representatives of the two political parties
of the day. Having become apprised of the course

pursued by Leblond, sought to call him out and ex-
pose him, in the following note, which xvas pub-
lished in the Gazette:
"L. LEBLOND, EsQ.:
Sir :-You profess to belong to a political
party, having principles which you claim to cher-
ish. I belong to a different school. Now, will
you meet inc at our town hall, and discuss those
l)rinciples? and from thence proceed through the
district, and discuss them whenever and wherever
we shall be able to get an audience? It is said,
by some, you are at every point of the compass on
all the qiwstions, political and moral, that divide
us, and positively nowhere.
Yery Respectfully,
J. BARBER."


TUE UNJUST JUDGE.          53

CHAPTER V.
Accidents
Somethucs combine to cast a shade of doubt
Upon the innocent.       colma~?,
LEMUEL HAMLIN, the convict, was about the me~
ridian of life, and had been, from early boyhood.
remarkable for his habits of industry and sobriety.
He had, at about the period of twelve years of age,
become a church member, aiul for nearly thirty
years lived strictly xvithin the canons of the order
and precepts ef the Bible; and had, therefore, in
the community in which he lived, a character above
reproach. The malevolent tongue of slander had
never dared asperse his fair fame; *and though in
the midst of affluence and the various comforts
and conveniences that await upon wealth, he made
no display-no pomp, no flourish; but was kind
and amiable in his intercourse towards all with
whom he came in contact in the various relations
of life; and hence, even the shafts of envy failed
to reach him. Having obtained considerable cc-
lebrity and distinction at the bar, he was about
permitting his name to be used as a candidate for
the State Senate, at the time the suspicion of hav-
ing murdered his brother began to attach to him.

'The father of Ilamlini had died tea years pre~
vious to the period of which we are now writing;
and left, at his deceased, a large estate to be divided
equally between Lemuel and his younger bi~other,
Joseph, whom, as we have seen, was poisoned.
Lemuel married early, and though he posSessed
personal attractions of no ordinary character-su..
l)erior talents, and no inconsiderable amount of
wealth, (most of the latter, it is true, in the fa-
tare,) yet with the position these advantages neces~
~arily gave him, lie selected his wife from the more
obse are walks of life ; remarking to a friend, at the
time, that more than nine-tenths of the town and
city girls had their hearts entirely covered with sic~
atriecs by arrows shot from Cupid's quiver, long
before they reached womanhood, that lie there-
fore preferred a virgin heart, that he might have
domestic peace and comfort; that many of them
were rat her quixotic, and would acquire more time
and patience to tame, than he had either leisure
or inclination to devote to that subject; that it
was easier to stimulate the intellect and develop
it, than to give new directions to the moral facul-
ties.
The union of Lemuel Hamlin and his wife was
one of affection. No sinister motive weighed on
either ~side in determining in favor of this happy
coaneThon. It was formed with the single view
of attaining domestic happiness; that which Dr.

r


4

54             ~rftE UNJUST 317DG1~
Paley tells us alone approximates perfect bliss ~
on earth.
"flomestie happiness Vthon oniy bliss
Of Paradise, that has survived the fall ~"
No discordant sounds were heard around that
hearth, All was peace, love, devotion, with all
those ten thousand little kind acts and attentions
which in their aggregate go very far in making up
the sum total of domestic comfort.
His two eldest children were girls-~one seven-~
teen, the other fifteen; both beautiful, sprightly.~
and intelligent; and were, at tue com.menccinent
of his trouble, finishing their e(iucation at a dis-
tant school. his remaining three were boys, one
thirteen and the other two younger.
Conscious of his iiinocence, he did not inform
his daughters of his perilous condition until after
his trial was over. Though the circumstances coim
nected with the charge, were positively suspicious,
he apprehended no danger of conviction, and
hoped to be able, before the period assigned for
the trial should arrive, to explain some of the
more mysterious circumstances. Yet he knew not
how, nor could he begin to divine how to account
for the most extraordinary fact, of having about
his person, a phial containing a small quantity of
deadly poison which, upon post mortem examina-~
tior~, was discovered by medical skill to be identi-
cally the same as that which was found in the
stomach of young Hamlin.

TIlE UNJITST JUDGE.           55

Sooi~ after his conviction he wrote to his absent
children as follows
"Mv DEAR J)~ueuT~Rs
A mi4ortunc has befallen your father which
entitles him to your sympathy and your consola-
tion. May I hope you will make no unnecessary
delay in coming' to my relief?
Your rtlfectionate Father,
Upon the reception of the above intelligence
their anxiety became in sui )portable, and moments
seeLued hours, and hours weeks, until they reached
S
home. (.vhich was only the day previous to that as-
signed for the execution,) and received from their
otherr the eai!se of their speedy relurn, and the
~ Situation of the father. Oh ! what a crushing
blow was that Though their imaginations had
been upon the rack, and evei~y conceivable rni~for-
ti IlIC coIijc(:t I tlOd anti iiiagnihed, and tortured into
all hinds of fearful shapes and contortions ; yet
how far short of the terrible reality ! It was sev-
oral hours before they became sufficiently eonv
posed to visit the prison. Fina.liy, suppressii~g all
emotion, or as nearly so as the poignancy of their
deep grief xv on 1(1 admit-for they had wonderful
control ovel their feelings xvhen xve coi~sidcr their
youth and the additional fact, that they had never
been schooled in the furnace of affliction-in com-
pany with their mother and their little brothers,
proceedC(i to the ,piil. And here a scene occurred

55


with which we would not pain our reader, but most
gladly omit it, did not the faithfulness of our nar-
rative imperiously demand the attempt to sketch
this solemn meeting.
When they entered his cell, though heavily mana-
cled, lie stood erect, and affectionately and tenderly
received them in turn,-
In all the silent man]iness of ~iicf.''
He conversed coolly to his family, for some time;
but when he alluded to his (lenuse on the follow-
ing day, his daughters gave vent to a pent up ag-
ony intones-
So madly shrill, SO piercing Wi[d,
that the father, no longer ablo to control his infelt
pangs, proposed invoking heavenly aid,-.-kneeled
amid the clanking of his chains with his family
around him, in the deepest devotional feeling.
~)Payed as follows:
" IJEAATENLY FATHER; thou erderest all tlui~ws
xvell.' Thy will, and not mine, be done. Thy ways
arc inscruta1ble ~nd past finding out. Thou, who
knowest all things, kn owest that I am innocent of
the blood of my brother; yet thou hast for some
~vise Purpose? to finite eyes unseen, permitted this
deep affliction--this terrible cal amity-to come
upon thy servant. Sustain and support him un-
dei' the weight of this fearful infliction. Thou in
thy holy book, hast taught us that all things work
together for the good of those who love and serve
thee~ Increase our faith, and euakle us to rely

with entire confidence upon thy sacred promises.
Enable us to realize that this visitation is a blessing
in disguise, and is meant to save. Sustain this af-
flicted and distressed family, and forbid, Almighty
and merciful Father, that at the great day of final
retribution, one of this number shall be found want-
ing in any of the virtues of thy saints. Be a hus-
band to the widow, and a father to the fatherless.
Save them from sin. Throw around them the
broad ~gis of thy saving grace, and enable them
to feel the necessity of a continual application of
the blood of a crucified and risen Redeemer. In
the name of thy beloved Son, save them from the
allurements of sin and folly. With grace buoy
them over this dispensation of thy Providence, the
purpose of which we shall know and fully realize,
when we meet around thy throne. Prepare thy
servant) with true christian fortitude and rcsi~'na-
tion, to meet his impending fate, and save us all
through the merits of Christ. Amen."
After the family arose, the youngest little boy,
about six years old continued upon his knees, with
his eyes closed and his little hands clasped, while
the tears were trickling down his infantile face, he
exclaimed, with great fervency: "Oh, Dod, ma
says you opened a prison and let Peter go way.
Open this big jail door, and let my poor pa go
home; do, Dod; oh, do!"
This little incident produced a state of things
that defies description; and we shall not, therefore,

56             TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                         THE UNJUST JUDGE.           57

56

57


58'             TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

TIlE UNJUST JUDG~X

attempt to delineate it, but leave our reader to~
draw upon his imagination for the occurrences of
the next half hour.
Some three hours before day the youngest daugh-
ter and three little boys took an affectionate leave
of their father aiid returned home. The mother
and oldest daughter remained with him without
eating or sleeping, until sometime the next day,
and till the Sheriff appeared to dress him in the
habiliments of the grave.
As soon as the younger members of the family
had left, he turned to his wife, anti thus. addressed
her-~
"My dear; our attachment has been long, deep,
ardent, uninterrupted. It is now about to close
forever. There are many things T would like to
say, hut the time allotted me is too short. It i~
said that-
Endure an(l -~-i~ie,
is all of life; but that is not correct. There are
many thing's in life to make it desirable. I have
strong desires to live-not that I am afraid to die.
Death has no terrors that I cannot face with as
much composure as I could contemplate a beauti-
ful landscape. 'It is appointed to man once to
die.' If he has 'fought a good fight,' it can mat-
ter but little to him, when, or under what circum~
stances, he is called to shake hands with time.
The only thing that could induce one lingering re-
gret, is our relations with. others. My only desire

to live at this time, is for the benefit of my fam-
ily; and I sometimes fear that even that desire is a
djstrust in the goodness of God. But when I recur
to those dear, dear little boys; oh! how rhy heart
bleeds! They have been the joy and the pride of
my existence. Ihave watched their expanding in-
tellects and their moral development with a solici-
tude none have known; and now, we separate for-
ever! This may be intended by a kind Proyidence
to save. By the erring hand of indulgence I might
have laid the foundation for their ultimate ruin,
temporal and eternal. Exert all a mother's influ-
ence over their. tender, ductile minds. You may
make them what you will. May God grant you
may make them what you ought. Impart to them
your own high and holy notions of virtue-of prin~
ciple-of integrity. Teach them that to depart
from these, is to be like
"A boat at midnight, sent alone
TO drift llPOfl a inoonle~s Sea."
Put your trust in the widow's God. Let your con-
fidence in his promises be implicit. Let not a
(ioubt pervade your s~oul. Oh ! what would now
be my insupportable condition but for the solaces
of religion-for faith in Christ-
"lie taught us how to live; and (oh! too high
~ price o~ knowledge.) taught us how to die."
I know you will take pleasure in not only follow-
ing my example, but closely adhering to my ad~
vice in all your business transactions. In your

59

58


60            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                          THE UNJUST JUDGE.           61

expenditures consult comfort and respectability,
rather than show or display. Be just always. If
you have, at any time, under any circumstances,
procured even the value of one cent fraudulently,
and without having rendered a full and complete
equivalent, restore it at the earliest possible mo-
ment, according to scriptural measure. Deal kindly
with the pour; give liberally, but with discrimina-
tion. Property is without value to us, except so
far as it contributes to our own comfort, and ena-
bles us to relieve the wants and miseries of others.
So many temptations cluster along' the l)ath of
the man of wealth, that the virtuous and the good
would scarcely desire to be in affluence.
T have made my will, and left you in the full
possession of all my property, personal and real.
It is yours to use and dispose of as yo~i may see
J)roper. And these dear children of ours are yours,
and only yours. Educate them morally, physically
and intellectually. Let inc urge you, as you value
their undying sonl~, to spare no pains nor expense
in fitting them for usefulness in life, mid enjoy-
ment after this brief existence shall have closed.
One prop is now withdrawn from their support,
hut I am convinced your asiduity, ) our vigilance,
your deep interest in their welfare, will supply its
place. Why God has removed this stay, does
not now appear. There is a Providence in it you
will see when God, in the presence of assembled
worlds, shall manifest my innocence.

"You are in affluence. Your income is abundant
to sustain you, without exertion to increase it; and
amply sufficient to educate, thoroughly, the chil-
dren. Devote your time to religious meditation,
and to the moral and mental culture of these little
ones; aiid when we meet beyond the ravages of
sin; may you have them with you, without the loss
of one, is the dying wish of him who has loved
you and them with the deepest devotion. Fare-
well.'
trhe Sheriff had been standing at the door, an un-
observed spectator, for nearly thirty minutes, un-
willing to break in upon the solemnity of the -sep-
aration. When Ilamlin discovered him at the
door, he rose-embraced his wife, and then his
daughter, with less emotion than could have been
anticipated; while they both svvooned-fell to the
Poor-were picked up and conveyed home.
On entering the room, the Sheriff took a seat
and entered into a conversation, in which lie as-
sured Hamlin lie had the liveliest sympathies of
the entire community; that none supposed him
guilty-that all had hoped that some development
would have disclosed his innocence before the fa-
tal time which had arrived.
" That," replied Hamlin, " avails me but little
at this trying hour. It is true, that it affords me
much consolation, in my dying moments, to know
and feel that II have so lived as to deserve the con-
fidence and receive the sympathy of those with


62              ~ffl~ UNJUST JUDGE.                                                THE UNJUST JUDGE.              63

whom I have always been associated; yet they
have failed to restore me to niy rights, or remove
the ignominy of the sc~affold:."
"if Judge Jones had been sober," remarked thc
Sheriff,)' you would not have becit convicted."
"If he had not charged the Jury at all," contain~
ued Hamlin, "they could not have hesitated a mo-
ment as to my innocence ; but if he had charged
the law as it is laid down in the books, they would
have returned a verdict of not guilty without leav-
ing their box. But I was astonished that twelve
as good men as composed that jury, did not utterly
disregard his ruling, notwithstanding he told them
that their oaths and affirmations bound them to
take the law to be what the Court ruled, which was
as false as the rest of the charge. The law makes
the jury the judges of the law as well as the facts,
and had Jones become sober before the court ad-
journed, and made acquainted with the character
of his charge, I have no doubt he would have
granted a new trial, without argument. My fate
and his conduct upon that investigation, will annoy
hirn'till the latest period of his earthly existence, if
not infinitely beyond it."
"Yes, yes ;" said the Sheriff, "you have fallen
a victim to the vice of tippling."
He was now dressed in his grave clothes and
taken to the scaffold, through the living mass of'
human beings, who had congregated from every
direction, to witness the execution. He walked up

the steps leading to the Riatform, with a firm, elas-
tic tread, an'1 when he gained the top, the rope was
adjusted around his neck, after which he was told
he ha(I thirty minutes in which to make any re-
merks he might wish.
1  110W tui~iied to the crowd, though his hands
~,   QHPd    ifl  VEWV ~ininm.frn]
were closely miii ~ yet a .~ ~ as
xveil as dignified manner, spoke in a clear, audible
vome, as follows
"My D&amp;xn Pntu~;m~ AND MICIIBOES: I am now on
the confines of two worlds-in a few moments to
quit the one, and enter upon the untried realities
of the other. I now say, in the presence of this
vast assembly, and the Searcher of all hearts,
whom I expect soon to Vuect in judgment, I am
entirely innocent of the murder of my brother.
Left to my care at a tender age, I watched over
him and his interests with more than a parents
solicitude. I loved him with more than a brother's
affection. But for the dear children Cod had en-
trusted to my reason~ ability, I would at any time
within the last ten years, most willingly have laid
down my own life to have saved his; and now I
stand here on the scaffold, about to yield up mine,
on a charge of having deprivedd him of his." As
he raised his eyes, he exclaimed: "Oh, dearest
brother, could you speak from the battlements of'
heaven, how soon would your kind voice relieve
me from this perilous, this fearful condition; from
this foul aspersion of my name. But how myste~


64            THE UNJUST JUDGE.

65

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

pious are the ways of Heaven! Why, 0 God,
hast thou permitted this terrible calamity to befall
me? Thou knowest I am innocent, entirely in-
nocent, of the charge ,of my brother's blood. But
I am complaining of the decrees of heaven. Thy
will, and riot mine, be done."
Turning again to the multitude, he continued:
"I declare before God, I am wholly ignorant of the
manner in xvhich the phial containing prussic acid,
came into my possession. Some wicked person
present at the bar-supper, must have placed it in
my pocket, while he contemplated precisely the state
of things which have resulted. The guilty has
gone unwhipt of justice; while I, quite as inno.~
cent as the victim of the diabolical deed, who now
sleeps his last sleep, am about to die for the crime.
I have a distinct impression as to who is the guilty
wretch, but I might do him injustice; and shall,
therefore, decline to give that impression to- the
world. I would not at this moment exchange sit-
uations with him. And let me now assure him,
that before many weeks shall have passed, Cod
will avenge this base wrong-vindicate my char -
acter and save my family from the foul imputa-
tion."
At this moment, Jerome Jenkins, who for many
years, had been the competitor of Lemuel Ham
lin at the bar, gave a piercing scream, that attrac-
ted the attention of all, present-fell to the
ground near the foot of the structure upon which

64

Hamlin stood, and was carried by his friends to his
lodgings.
For the first time since Hamlin left the prison,
he now became pale, and exhibited deep emotion.
He had witnessed the fall of Jenkins, and had
seen him borne from the ground. He, however,
soon rallied, and remarked, that intemperance had
brought this work of destruction upon him ,though
he had ~ot tasted liquor for very many years. He
hoped that all who heard him would profit by his
misfortune, and wage a war of extermination
against tippling and intemperance.
The crowd had now become impetuous, and
made a rush to the stand, with a view of releasing
Ilamlin, but were repelled by a strong military
guard, at the point of the bayonet.
The Sheriff here communicated to him that he
had but five minutes to live, took leave of him, and
was about drawing the cap over the eyes of Ham-
un, when a man was seen in the distance, coming
in the direction of the place of execution, as swiftly
as his exhausted steed could bear him forward,
crying, as he~came,-"hold! hold!! hold!!!" The
messenger, as he ran his foaming animal into the
midst of the dense mass of people, threw himself
from its back, and was immediately upon the scaf-
fold in conversation with the Sheriff.
S


TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

Q

CHAPTER Vi,
Pangs more corro~rve and se~eim
More Lie CC moic ~)oig~1a11t and intense
Than ever frost ile sn ord or spear
Wak'd in the breast of infiocenee.
iJf,'s. IIWoro'.
Jerome Jenkins had been carried home, where
he remained delirious for several clays, with an
occasional lucid interval. During his lucid mo-
ments, he would constantly talk of the cruel fate
of the 1I~m1ins, but when in delirium he would in-
sist that he, with his own hand, had murdered them;
and in the most wild and incoherent manner talk
about his struggles at the bar with Lemuel, and
the bright and glorious future that axvaited Joseph,
had he lived. And then, at the top of his deep,
sonorious voice, that carried dismay to every heart,
exclaim, "Pluto, I see you! Why don't you take
the devil out of my room? He is after me. help I
help!! help I I1" While it would require three or
four athletic men to keep him in bed.
Jenkins and Hamlin practiced in their profession
at the same bar, for some twenty years. They
started in the profession about the same period,
and at the time of commencing, both were in mdi-

gent circumstances. Jiamlin's father, soon after
his admission to the bar, put him into the posses-
sion of a handsome property, to which by inJustry,
economy, and careful management, he had made
large accessions.
Jenkins, stimulated by the thought of Hamlin 's
becoming rich, embarked in a hazardous enter-
~)rize; and he, too, after a few years, and a fortui-
tons turn or two of the wheel of fortune, became
wealthy. So that at the death of Joseph Hamlin,
they were each in affluence, and were beginning
to entertain political aspirations, and both accord~
iiigly, had their names announced as candidates
for the State Senate.
When admitted to the bai', Jenkins and Hamlin
were members of a temperance organization, and
with the strictest fidelity each kept his pledge until
Jenkins began to feel an inclination to court public
favor with reference to political promotion, when he
violated his pledge, and was finally cut loose from
the society of which he was a member, by th~
unanimous vote of the association, as unworthy of
their confidence.
Feeling now, no restraint, and mir~gling frec1y,.~
and indeed, almost constantly, among the sove-
reign people, of all classes and conditions, (for he
was resolved to win,) he was incessantly exposed
to the, danger of treating and being treated;
and whenever exposed, invariably yielded to the
temptation, until among the more sober and tei~~

S

67


THE T1 4JIJST JUTJGE.
p crate portion of the community, he was regarded
as an inebriate-gone beyond the hope of redemp-
tion; while his drunken associates only consid~
ered' him a clever-souled fellow, who could drink
or let it alone, at his pleastire.\ But he found it
much easier to drink than to let it alone. Yet he, as
is universally the case, had not, even begun to sus-,
pect that he was sliding notwithstanding lie was
very near the base of the declivity.
Some of his friends, (and he had many among
the best men of the country,) would occasionally
rr~odestly intimate to him that he was in danger,
but Jenkins would seem not to understand the ab
fusion until it was made tqo palpable, and then
would repel the idea of his becoming intemperate
as utterly impos~ihle and not to be contemplated
for a moment. The recklessliess of such men, who
can doubt, had much to do in originating the say-
ing among the ancients, that " whoiri the gods
wish to destroy they first make mad ?"
On the evening of the death of Joseph Ilamlin,
I
the bar had met at one of the hotels of tii~ village,
for the purpose of knocking oW or rather washing
off, the sharp points created during a recent term
of their Court; and Joseph hlamlin being a law
student, and quite a favorite, had an invitation to
be present, and met with them.
This young man had just gai~ied his majority~
and was about to be admitted as a member of the
legal fraternity. In personal appearanceJoseph

I

69

ThE UNJUST JUDGE.

liamlin was majestic, and in intellect was vastly
above mediocrity; and had the refining and polish..
ing touches of a finished education. His brothel'
had bestowed much attention upon his moral and
mental training, and until within the last twelve
months previous to this evening, he had been con-
sidered a paragon of excellence and moral worth.
During his collegiate course he had stood' at the
head of his class, and graduated with the highest
honors the institution could confer upon him. He
returned home, and with an intermission of but a
few days, entered upon the study of the law with
his brother. lIe had fixed his standard high. Had
taken onc or two of the first lawyers of the Re-
public as his model, with a firm resolution to attain
to their excellence. During the first twelve months
of his studies, Coke, Plowden and Blackstone, were
his constant and only companions, but about the
close of that period, some of his duties as Clerk in
his brother's office, brought him frequently, for
some time, in contact with Jenkins, for whom he
formed a' warm attachment, and at the same time
some fondness for the "flowing bowl." His brother,
who regarded moral character as paramount, and
of the utrriost importance to a young man about
to enter upon the legal profession, had been notic-
mug, witl~ the deepest anxiety, his declension, and
had embraced every opportunity of impressing
upon his mind the necessity of the strictest tem-
perance, or an abandonnleriX of the profession


'PHF~ UNJUST JUDOIX                                                  THE UNJUST JUDGE.

he had chosen as the theatre of his future hopes;
now and then directing his attention to distin-
guished members of the bar whose sun had set be-
hind a cloud because of this vice. Lemuel 11am-
un's anxiety had becopie chronic, and he resolved
to terminate it by breaking up the intimacy that
existed between Joseph and Jcnkins~ He there-
fore sought his brother's society, and o~ what he
regarded as a suitable occasion, insisted upon his
quitting the company of Jenkins, and urged as a
reason, that he was immoral, reckless, and unprin-
cipled, and was fast verging to the drunkard's fate,
and that his association was having a demoralizing
effect upon him. But Joseph, unwilling' to believe he
stood in need of such admonitions, very readily at-
tributed his brother's views of .3 enkin's character
to the acrimonious feeling provoked by conflicts at
the bar, and ~he political campaign just opening.
in which they were competitors, and both more or
less jealous of each other's power with the people~
It was for the purpose of throwing a restraint
around Joseph, that Lemuel was induced to attend
the fatal bar supper.
Jenkins had been sick for about two weeks, and
for the most part of that time his case was con-
sidered, by his medical advisers, as desperate. his
fever having now, to some extent, abated, he was
again rational. After enjoying, for some eighteen
hours, an ~incloudccl jptellect, " a sou~id ~nd dis-
posing mind and memory," and supposing himself

t
i
1

in ext rem is, began seriously to think of the "leap
in the dark ;" "duly made and executed" his will.
By this will he disinherited each of his four sons,
if after they should respectively arrive at the age
of twelve, they should "be known to drink aleholic
liquors." And then added this singular clause:
"not that a very few drains would be a great det-
riment to my children, but drunkenness is nearly
certain to ensue ; then follows idleness, profanity,
and kindrid vices in the trein, and hence this
clan se."
After completing his will and disposing of all
his mundane possessions, he sent for a clergyman,
who soon arrived, and was seated by his bed-side.
A few moments having in silence elapsed, Jenkins
remarked to the manof God, " You l~Crceive, my
dear sir, that my sands are nearly run out. I have
now to finish in a few bricf hours, a work, for the
completion of which a whole lifetime is too short
But before I proceed aiiy further, I wish you to pro-
cure a l~eiI, ink, and paper, as I desire to leave a
record, OVCI' my OWiI sign manual, that will do am-
Pie justice to the living as well as the dead. You
will be exceedingly careful to take down every
word as I utter it."
"During the past two years I have permitted
myself to fall into that most de~t~'uctive of all vices
-intoxication. I slid into it gradually. The first
drinking I did dates from the incipient stages of
my political aspiratioi~s, I drank, not because T


72             TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

was fond of either the taste or effect of liquor, but
in mixing with, the people I was Yrequently invited
to drink, and) drank for no other reason than that I
lacked courage to say no, and then in turn, treated
and of course drank; and thus in a few months, if
I did not acquire a fondness&amp; for both the taste and
effect, I acquired the habit of drinking frequently,
and was ruined.before I was aware of the ground
I occupied. If I possessed the ability to reform,
which was doubtful, when a candidate for an im-
portant office in a drinking community, all will ad-
mit, it was not the time to attempt a reformation.
I drank, and continued to drink, excessively. But
I attended that bar-supper, with a heart as free
from guilt as it had ever been since my earliest
recollection. After having been there for some
time, drinking freely, I conceived the fiendish idea
of attempting to) strike down the character and
moral standing of Lemuel Hamhin. I observed he
drank no liquor, and as I drank immoderately, it
occurred to me he would be likely to use my in-
temperate habits against mc in the coming cam-
paign; and I, therefore, went to the work of man-
ufacturing an offset against his charge, and while
revolving the matter in my mind, it struck me with
irresistible force that if I could administer to Jo~
seph ilamhin a very minute portion of poison-suf-
ficient to produce nausia, and make it a marked
effort at poisoning, and then fix the suspicion on
Lemuel Hamhin, I cQuI4p~ostrate him. and defeat

THE UNJUST JUDGE.
his electiOn. When I first conceived the idea it
was with much difficulty that I could get my qwn
consent, but after drinking often and freely of the
accursed liquor that filled the board,. I quietly pas-
sed out of the hall, unobserved-returned to my
house, procured a small phial containing prussic
acid, I had obtained several months previously,
for pharmaceutical purposes-returned to the room
of conviviality and dissipation, and seated myself
between Lemuel and Joseph; and while Lemuel
was engaged in conversation with a gentleman
on his left, I potired the contents of the phial into
Joseph's glass, lie being by this time so much intox-
icated that he was scarcely conscious of any thing
that was transpiring about him, and immediately
put my hand around behind Lemuel and placed
the phial, withoutbeing noticed, into his coat pock-
et. Joseph took up his glass and commenced
drinking, but I had poured more of the fatal drug
into the glass than I bad intended; I attempted by
an apparent accidental jostle, to knock the glass
from his hand; but being quite as much under the
influence of liquor as he was, I, consequently,
missed my aim-he drank it to the bottom. Soon,
a deathly sickness seized him, and he fell to the
floor.
"Lemuel became very much excited, though a
legitimate feeling, for the welfare of his brother,
therm in most imminent danger of speedy dissolu-
tion. I knavishly, with knowing looks and ges.


4                THE UNJUST JUDQE~.                                                       TIlE UNJUSP .tTJi~G~.              75

tures, subsequelitly alluded to this agitation to his
great disadvantage.
"Before carrying Joseph to bed, Lemuel drew
o11' his coat and threw it upon a chair, and at this
moment the phial fell from his 1)ocket, which was
unobserved except by myself. I huinediately called
the attention of the Sheriff to the circumstance,
whispering in his ear, "it had better be carefully
preserved, as Joseph had to me the appearance of
having been 1)oisolled. The matter might bejudi-
cially investigated, in which event tim i~re~ciic~ of
the phial would be of the utmost importance, and
that the only motive that could have induced Lem-
uel to commit the horrid deed was Joseph's piop-
erty, which he must nez e~sarilv inherit at Joseph's
death.
The unfortunate sequel is before the public. I
never intended serious injury to the young man.
May God pardon inc for allowing myself to become
intoxicated, for in that com4~ted tbe whole crime.
JEROME JVNKINS."
"Now," continued Jenkins, "have this immediate-
ly placed upon the records of the county, for the vin-
dication of the fair fame of my honest and honorable,
but unfortunate friend and competitor. It files upon
my own character, and ~he character of my family,
an indchibi.e stain; but justice requires I should
remove the foul blot from the ii~nocent, who have
already too severely suffered, and place it where
It properly belongs. If I could call the entire uni-

ti

verse niy own, I would willingly relinquish my title
to the whole of it, if thereby I could recall the last
two years of my life, and give that period to teni-
perallee and virtue, and restore Joseph Hamlin to
health and vigor. But, alas ! alas! how vain are
empty regrets !"
He wrung his hands and wept with the' wildest
emotion.
iNo car can hear, no tongue can tell,
The loituros of that inward hell."
his family l)ecommg alarmed, his physVian was
brought and an opiate administered ; but without
the slio~htest effect. He soon relapsed into raving
delirium, and remained in that condition for seve-
ral days. By superior medical attention and care-
ful nur~4ng, the excitement gradually wore off, and
reason again resumed her throne, and with it,
strength steadily but slowly returne ci.
He conversed often, and Ureely, about the hard
fate, as lie frequently called it, of the Jiamlins,
which had now found its way, with all the attend-
ing circus stances, into the nexvspaper publications
of the day. About this period, three or four of his
dram-drinking friends called in to condole with him,
in his truly unhappy situation. As soon as they
were seated, he commenced by saying, -" Gentle~
men, you see me a wreck; physically, mentally,
and morally. A wreck in character-in every~
thing that makes life desirable. I would deserve,
~xnd doubt n6t have, the sympathies of the virtw

il

75


TILE UNJUST JUDC~1~.

otis and good of all classes of society, had not my
own folly and perverseness brought it upon my
head! Oh! how soon are the rounds of folly run!
A few hours are often only necessary to sacrifice
a character and a reputation, which it has required
years of toil and assiduous labor to build up, and
when lost can never be regained. The course I
entered upon, two years since, I am now satisfied,
sooner or later, ends in ruin. I have discovered
it, alas! too late to correct it. My example may
not, I fervently hope will not, be lost upon others.
And here you will allow me in all kindness to say,
that unless you stop tippling, titter ruin will-must
be your fate. It may not-and I pray God it may
not-~----corne in the fearful form in which it has visited
your companion in vice; but that it will come in
some unwelcome shape, is as certain as you persist
in it."
The Doctor here entered his room, and his 01(1
associates left. His symptoms indicated the use
of the lancet, and after extracting as much blood
as was thought necessary, the instrunj~ent was care-
lessly left upon the stand at the head of his bed,
which he seized, a moment after the physician dis-
appeared, and inserted it into his arm, while he
tore off the bandage that had been placed on the
other, and, in a few minutes his guilty soul was
before the bar of Omnipotence.

4

CIfAPTEII VIlE
lie hears
On a11 ~idcs, from innumerable tongues,
A dismal, universal hiss, the sound
Of j~ublic scorn,     Mi/Ion.
Judge Jones had been attacked, in different parts
of the State, with a virule~ice unknown to political
warfare, and it had become now evident that a
powerful effort must be made to save his election.
Soon after the trial and conviction of Hamlin,
the following appeared in the Jeffersonian, a news-
paper published in the village where the occurrence
took l)lace
"A foul murder of the most aggravated charac-
tel' is ~ibout to be committed in our midst, under a
pretendedd sentence of law. Should a midnight as-
sassin enter Ilamliii's lone cell* and bury his dag-
ger in his bosom, his death would not be more tin-
ju~t, nor a more flagrant violation of the law than
to execute him in obedience to the late sentence
of the court. From the inception to the close of
this most exciting tragedy, rum has been the chief
actor. It began in a drunken melee-the trial
was a drunken farce, and we suppose there will be
thousands of drunken men witness its termination.

)


TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                           THE UNJUST JUDGE.            79

WTe should not be astonished if th~ people would
soon cease to have any more) respect for, or confi-
dence iii, our courts of justice, than they have for
those of Judge Lynch.
"It has ever been the aim of distinguished and
virtuous Judges to secure priblic confidence; nor is
it difficult; common prudence accomplishes it.
Without it law is brought into disrepute, and even
disregarded.
~ Judiciary of our State has been disgraced,
and it will require a long time before it will recover
from the shock. Lemuci Hamlin is, and ever has
been, a man of high-toned moraTh-pessesses a
fin ely cultivated intellect, and has deservedly long
occupied a high and comnlnan(ling position in the
esteem and affections of all xvlio have known him.
his death xviii create a vacuum in our society that
cannot soon be filled. How Judge Jones is to an-
swer at the bar of public opinion, or even at the
bar of his owii conscience, is more than we are
able to divine. A just censure, and damning infa-
my, is fast settling dovvn upon him, if we have not
grossly misinterpreted the signs of tile times, from
which he will find it difficult to extricate himself.
"Judge Jones is a man of the very finest order of
talents, superior acquircaicuts, and capable of
making himself a first class Judge; yet with the tal-
ents of an angel a man may be a fool. lie has
been gradually contracting the habit of tippling,
unta he may now be regarded as lost to himself,

his friends and society. All the noble impulses and
generous sentiments of his manly nature have
been qflenche(i in the fumes of alcohol. The man
who can so far lose sight of duty; hi~ obligations
to society, and self-respect, as to become intoxi-
cated upon the Bench while adjudicating a ease
involving the life or death of an eminent fellow-
citizen; or, indeed, of any ma Ii; deserves the deep
and damning execrations of all honorable men-
(leserves to be just what he is covci~ed all over with
the foulest infant.
"While contemplating this judicial murder~ we
sicken over the clark pictui~e presented by poor,
ftillen, depraved hurnaii uatur~'. F or) if we see'
such departures from right, from duty, from prilici-
ide, in men of position ; in men of intellectual su-
periority ; in men holding offices of great respon-
sibilitv in thc~ affairs of State; in men chosen be-
cause of their supposed fitness for the station, then
what are we to expect in the private walks of life
where there is no responsibility except such as at-
taches to persons as members of society? What
are we to look fQr where ignorance abounds, where
neither head nor heart has been cultivated? "If
it burns in the green, what will it do in the dry ?"
"In view of all the circumstances connected
with this most unfortunate and melancholy affair,
will Judge Jones suffer his name to continue before
the public, in connection with the judgeship ?" is a
question frequently propounded to us within the


THE UNJUST JUDGE.            81

80               THE UNJUST JUD~1~.

last few days, to which we have invariably resp on-
ded, most certainly not, unless he has infinitely less
confidence in the virtue and intelligence of the
people than we supposed. It cannot be that a man
steeped to the chin in infamy, and bed aubed with
the slime of drunkenness and debauchery, will ask
a virtuous and intelligent community to endorse
his judicial course, and by their suffrage retain
him in the high and responsible position he has so
thoroughly disgraced.
"An ordinary case of murder is mitigated homi-
cide, when compared with this judicial murder of
Hamlin. The pinching want of a destitute family
may occasionally be plead in extenuation of the
crime of the misguided wrctch who kills for gain.
Avarice, revenge, and the various motives which
prompt the murderous act, may, and frequently
have, mitigating circumstances; but what imagi-
nation so fertile as to conceive of an apology for
this murder by Judge Jones?"
The above publication had escaped the obser-
vation of Judge Jones, until it was sent him, by
some friend, some weeks after the issue of the pa-
per containing it. He had seen numerous attacks
upon him, but none that roused him like this. lie
read it ever attentively several times. His first
impulse was, to meet the editor and chastise him
personally, but a few moment's reflection enabled
him to determine that a personal rencountre with
the 'editor would make a bad matter worse. While

attack upon those who were traducing him would
appease his wrath and vindicate his wounded pride,
it might add to the dangers already clustering
about hi~ political hopes. His next thought was
to institute his action for libel, and make him re-
spond in damages; but again it occurred that the
editor was wholly irresponsible. When he finally
determined to defer the matter until he had an op-
portunity of consulting with his friend Jewett, to
whom he wrote the following letter;
Mv DEAR JEWETT
"You will please find, enclosed, a slanderous
attack upon me, which I have clipped from a num-
her of the Jeffersonian, published a few weeks since,
concerning the Hamlin trial, which you have doubt-
less seen. For baseness and malignant feeling it
surpasses any of the Junius letters. lit annoys me
no little, and I am wholly unable to determine what
disposition to make of it. Is it the production of
the editor, or some other political scullion, who
has more responsibility and probably more chara&amp;
ter than the editor, and who thus expects to attack
me with impunity, by skulking behind the misera~~
ble putrescence that presides ox~er the columns of
that contemptible sheet?
"Your long experience at the bar, and your suc-
cess in political life, as well as the deep interest
you have taken in my welfare, induce me to place
a high estimate upon your counsel and advice, in
6


THE UNJUST JUDGE.           83

82               THE UNJUST JUDGE~.

this crisis of my political career. My defeat, at
this time, would be the death-knell to my hopes;
and with the prostration of my political hopes, my
happiness, also, for I have no taste for the tame
pursuits of professional life. 1 had in my mind's~
eye the position I now occupy, when I first entered
upon a legal course of study. It was the dream
of my youth-the aspiration of mature years, and
the culminating point of my ambition.
"I use freedom in writing to you, for ' talking to
a friend,' we are told, 'is only thinking aloud.'
"I have flattered myself I could become u~efuI?
if not distinguished~ upon the Bench. And now,
to have my fondest aspirations thus nipped in the
bud-to be thus sent back to the private walks of
life, degraded and forever disgraced, with a great~
gulf carved out-beyond which I cannot pass-be-
tween me and the ohj ect for which I have lived,
and upon which I have set my heart, is absolutely
insupportable. The bare thought wrings anguish
frona~my soul. The dereliction of duty, if I have
been guilty of any, will not, in fact, be increased
by my defeat; nor will my election actually
lessen it, yet success covers a multitude of sins,
while failure augments them. Thompson, though
not a politician, understood this subject when he
wrote-
"It is 5UCC~S5 that colors all in life;
Success makes fools admired, makes villains honest."
What 8hall I do? Meet him and compel a retrac-

Lion, or punish him on the spot? Or, shall I reply
through the press? This might be objectionable,
as it would elicit, through the public prints, a full
discussion of the entire circumstances connected
with the Hamlin affair, which would be unpleasant,
not to say dangerous, at this time. Perhaps I had
better bring an action against the rascal, even if it
should be thought advisable to discontinue it after
the election, as that would probably put a quietus
upon him for the present. Let me hear from you
by return mail. I am, my dear Sir,
Your ob't. serv't,
J. L. JONES."
A. P. Jewett was, at this period, a zealous and
eloquent advocate of the Maine Law, but ~ad
formed a strong attachment for Jones, personally,
and entertained a high opinion of his legal ability
and judicial talents, and had, therefore, determined
to give him his most cordial and energetic support.
At the earliest possible moment after the recep.~.
tion of the above note from the Judge, he replied
as follows:
"MY DEAR JONES:.
"The subject in your communication, had
cost me much thought and reflection, for sometime
previous to receiving your favor, and it has not
been without difficulty that I have been able to de.
termine as to your better course in relation to the
attack upon you, in the Jeffersonian;. but, have
6*


$4            THE UNJUST JUDGE.

TilE UNJUST JUDGE.           85

finally concluded your better policy will bc to treat
it, for the present, at least, with silent contempt;
and when an allusion is made to this and similar
charges, your friends must insist that it is the want
of responsibility in the editor of the Jeffersonian
that saved him from eondign punishment.
"And a very short time hence, the ground must
be assumed in different parts of the State, simul-
taneously, that you are cruelly persecuted-that
a strong disposition prevails in certain quarters, to
victimize you-that the charge is without founda-
tion-is intended to strike you down, for the simple
reason that you're not a fanatic-will not advo-
cate a prohibitory law, but will occasionally indulge
in ~. glass of brandy. If this course is prudently
adopted, and the matter carefully managed, it can
be made to recoil with powerful force; and if so,
your election, by a large and very decided majority,
is rendered certain.
"You are well aware of my position upon the
temperance question. I am in favor of prohibition;
yet, so anxious am I for your success, I would make
any reasonable sacrifice to accomplish it. In the
course of some four or five days, I will make a tour
through the State and moderate our temperance
friends, as much as in my power, and occasionally
furnish the opposers of the Maine Law with a few
items that may h~nefit you essentially.
'Very truly yours,
A. P. JEWETT."

1

A few days previous to the election, in pursuance
of Jewett's plan for operation, articles appeared
thi'ough the State, in all the different papers friendly
'to Jones, charging that a most unholy persecution
had been waged by the Maine Law advocates
against Judge Jones; the object of which was to
rouse the liquor inthience, nor is it necessary to
add that it worked lik~ a charm.
As our narrative would be incomplete without
a specimen of the political writers of those times,
we will copy, ntire, an article which appeared in
the Herald, a aper published in the Lastern part
of the State:
"Since the dawn of political warfare, no man
has ever been required to pass through the fiery
ordeal that has fallen to the lot of Judge Jones.
We have always been in favor of fair, open, manly
political struggles for principle; and will add, we
care not how warmlyy such contests are conducted.
We have ever believed that political parties neces-
sarily grew out of human nature in organized so-
ciety; that the existence of party is as unavoidable
as necessary; hence we never expect to see party
annihilated, neither in Republican, nor any other
form of government, in the old or new world; nor
do we think it desirable, if it were possible.
"We ask, what would be the condition of our
country if party did not exist? What would be-
come of government? What would become of
the country and the interests of the people, but for


86                     THfl UN3trS1~ JUflW.

the lynx-eyed political editors and partisans? It
is absolutely necessary, then, for the purity of the
government, that there should be some person or
persons sufficiently interested to watch every move
of the governmental officials, and to discuss the
propriety of every movement; ferret out their
frauds and expose their lackes-their want of saga~
city arid foresight. But for this watching-this fer~
reting-out .-this investigation - government , of
whatever character or complexion they may be,
would soon fester, garigreen, and fall to pieces
from their own inherent corruption, or become a
most insupportable burden, rather than a blessing
to the people. But, again, who is to sustain po-
litical editors and political partizans, hut political
parties? "The laborer is worthy of his hire," is a
truism if stripped of its divinity, and that hire must
come from partizan zeal or not at all. And hence
we argue the necessity, as well as the wisdom, of
party.
"For the above reasons, with numerous others
we might offer, we expect ever to be a warm and
decided politician; ever willing to stand firm and
immovable for the interest and measures of our
party; believing, as we do, that the interest and
welfare of our country are involved in the iiiterest
and welfare of the party of which we have been
a zealous member from our youth up. But we
can never be tempted to assail private character,
for the purpose of carrying - a. political measure,

t
4

however important it may be; and we certainly
could not be induced to do it for the baser purpose
of striking down a politic-al enemy.
"I low different the course pursued by the perse~
~. utors of our worthy and distinguished friend,
Judge Jones? 1-us private character has been sifted
and held up to the public gaze, distorted and black-
~mcd so ~ not to be recognized by hk friends ~x-
cept as a mo~t ridiculous caricature. Even the
sanctity of the domestic hearth has been invaded
by these worse than hyenas, who are yelping upon
his track! And for no other reason than that he
will not give in his adhesion to a prohibitory liquor
law, and shout, frantic with fanaticism, to the ut-
most capacity of his lungs, Maine Law.! Which
we think, with due deference, ought to be dubbed
the Maine folly. Such conduct is infamous beyond
the power of language to characterize, and can
have no other effect than to rouse the liberal of all
parties, in support of the Judge. And we shall
be most egregiously disappointed if the moderate
and liberal of all parties do not rally around the
staiidard of Judge Jones, to such an extent as to
carry dismay into the ranks of these fanatics.
"Who does not know that the best men among
us are in the habit, now and then, of drinking a
glass of liquor whenever they need it? And who
does not know that it has neither injured them
physically nor intellectually, nor has it incapaci-
t~ted them for business."

Bin


88    .              THE UNJUST JUDOfi.                                                                   TI11~ UNJUST Ju1ic~t~.                  89

We have ever been opposed to dissipation in all
its varied tbrms, and p articu1arly~ drunkei~ness9
We despise it! We~detest-we abhor-we loath
it!! We would tuPn in uttcr disgust from the mis-
erable drunkard, with a feeling compounded of
pity and shame for his wickedness and degrada-
tion. But to charge Judge Jones with being a
drunkard is the impersonation of audacity. The
man who is base enough to manufacture and make
such a charge against the Judge, is lost to shame.
and deserves to have "ia~unoas" branded upon
every inch of his surface~ No man is freer from
the charge of drunkenness thaii Jones~ and we
hope our friends will look closely to this 1natteI~
lest he be literally lied out of the office he has~
filled with so much credit to himself and advantage
to the public.
"We have the ho~or of a ~sonal qua~ntance
with Judge Jones, and regard him as the best man
upon our ticket, and feel 1)ound to contribute our
utmost effort to promote his election, because of
his qualifications and peculiar fitness for the posi..
tiou~ And even if he lacked some of the essential
qualifications for the bench, still we should support
him, and support him with all the energy we are
capable of putting forth, for the reason that great
jnjustice has been done to the Judge. We are so
constituted that when we see a man outraged, and
the flood-gates of billingsgate let loose upon him,
our sympathies are enli~t&amp;d and our comba~tative-

ness aroused, and would be more inclined to over~
look imperfectioiis. We have frequently met him
in the social circle, and around the festive board;
and while we have never seen him drunk, we have
never seen him refuse to take a glass when re-
quested by a friend. He is endeared to his friends
by every social tie. lie is none of your narrow-
contracted, pinched-up, sanctimonious, long-faced,
little seven-by-nine down-eastern puritans, but lib-
eral to a fault, and generouui beyond his means;
always manly, always candid and frank; no con-
cealments to make, but always appears to be what
he is. Again we would say to our friends, come
to the rescue, and stamp the defamers of the Judge
with falsehood."
To the above article, a reply appeared in the
next issue of the Journal, a paper printed in the
same town, which, for the p~npose of giving both
sides a hearing, we will copy:
"The Herald, of last week, is out in an article
of some length and considerable acrimony, in sup-
port of Judge Joncs.
"Our neighbor of the llerald~s first effort is, to
create the impression that Jones is being most
fiercely persecuted. We have but little doubt that
the facts, recently made public, in connection with
the trial of liamlin, are anything but agreeable to
Judge Jones and his friends.
"No rogue o'er felt the lialt~e ciraw,
With good opiujon of the law,"


TIlE L~NJUST JUDGI~.
It would'~be quite as sensible for the criminal to
charge the court, that was meeting out to him the
reward of his infamy and his crime, with persecu-
tion; though we confess it would be less politic.
"Judge Jones is either guilty or innocent of the
charge of sacrificing Ilamlin. If innocent, then
he has a remedy in our courts of justice, which
will make him abundantly whole, and forever si-
lence his traducers. Why has he not already re-
sorted to this means of redress, instead of allow~-
ing his friends to raise the doleful howl of perse-
cution? The- answer to this inquiry is easily anti-
cipated. Jones could not enter court with "clean
hands ;" and, consequently, would come out with
a worse character than when he xvent in. lie is
too familiar with courts of Justice to ask any in-
vestigation of the grave charges that are now be-
ing made against him in every portion of the
State. Had there been no foundation for these
attacks upon his character, they were grossly
libelous, and no sooner had the charge been
made than he would have instituted his ac-
tion; and as often as reiterated, would lie have
been seen seeking his remedy before the judicial
tribunals of his country.
"But why, we ask, does not the herald, and other
sheets friendly to Judge Jones, positively deny
that he was intoxicated upon the trial of that im~
portent criminal cause? We have not seen a plain,
positive denial of the charge, and we apprehend

THE tTNJtTST JPiiGF~.

91

I

it has not been made, for the only reason that it
could not be. Is it persecution, then, to charge
him with being incapable of discharging his duty*
upon that trial? If it is, we plead guilty. If drunk~
enness and debauchery are judicial virtues, he
l)055055C5 them in an eminent degree. But if tem-
perance and sobriety are requisite in a judge, then
Jones is not fit for ti~e position. If to expose his
drunkenness and debauchery, and urging the fact
as a reason for regarding him as unfit for the bench,
is "assailing private character," then we plead
guilty to that charge. If charging him with hay-
ing bacchanalian feasts at his own house, is "in-
vading the sanctity of the domestic hearth," we
pfcad guilty to that.
"We have opposed Judge Jone's election, and
we expect to continue that opposition until the last
ballot is deposited in the box, not out of any unkind
feeling towards him, for we have none, but for high-
er and more holy reasons.
"XYe agree with Jones in politics, and admit he
possesses splendid talents, and quite as much legal
ability as any man in our State, but he is a miser-
able drunken bloat; and for that~ reason wholly
unfit for the bench; wholly unqualified for any po-
sition of trust or responsibility. What! elect a man
to the highest judicial office in the State-to a p0-
sition where he may, by unfaithfulness in that po-
sition, sacrifice the property, the reputation, the
liberty, and even the lives of citizens, when int~ox-


T i

TUE UNJUST JUDGE.
icated, and their is no remedy. It is worse than
madness to advocate the claims of such a man.
We never can consent to entrust the adjudication
of questions involving such momentous interests
to a man, admitted by his friends to be constantly,
more or less, under the influeiiee of liquor. Infi-
nitely sooner would we prefer a sober man upon
the bench who differs with us politically; for in
h~s hands, the liberty and the lives of citizens would
at least be safe, however he might differ with us
in relation to the character and rights of corpora-
tions. Our fealty to party has iiever been ques-
tioned; yet our fidelity to the people, to society, to
virtue,, to morality~ religion and the best interests
of humanity, demand our Opposition to Judge Jones.
We do it reluctantly, but we do it with the ap-
proval of our conscience as well as our judgment
"The Herald claims "the honor of a personal
acquaintance with Judge Jones," and adds, that
"while we have never seen him drunk, we have
never seen him refuse to take a glass with a friend."
Now, while no sober man acquainted with Judge
Jones, will admit the truth of the fii~st part of the
above, every man equally well acquainted with
him, will attest the truth of the last.
There is, perhaps, a preliminary question that
we ought to have settled with the editor of The
herald before we entered upon the discussion of
the question as to whether Jone.s is an inebriate,
and from that cause disqualified for discharging,

ThE UNJUST JUDGE.
i~ait1ifully, the duties of a high judicial functionary,
and it is this-" how much liquor can a man be
under the influence of without being considered in-
toxicated?" It is said, but with how much truth
we do not pretend to say, that the Herald will not
admit a man to be drunk, "until he cannot sit,
stand, nor lie in a ten-acre field, nor distinguish
between his mouth and a hole in the ground." If
this is the language of the herald and the crite-
rion by which he estimates the moral qualities of
men, then we shall be unable to agree with him
upon the preli1m1iaI~)T question, and consequently,
have no controversy with him.
We observe, the Herald, in his justification of
Judge Jones, says, he "baths, hates, abhors, and
detests a drunkard." In these epithets we see the
evi(lence of more grace than usually falls to the
lot of political editors. They seldom exhibit much
cont~4tion for past offences.
But, to be serious, we do hope Jones may be
defeated. Should lie be elected, with all his infirm-
ities clinging to him, our confidence will be vast-
ly impaired in the perpetuity of our Republican
institutions and the ability of man for self-govern-
men
Judge Jones saw, at a glance, the effect this ar-
ticle would have upon the thinking and better por-
tion of his own party~ unless something was done
to counteract it; but what should that 'something'
be? was a question of much intricacy-more

I

Ii
'ii


94            THE UNJUST JUDGE.

knotty and difficult, than any he had been called
upon to determine in the capacity of Judge or
Chancellor. Yet it must be solved, and that speed-
ily. When he met with the paper containing the
above, he was travelling through the State upon
an electioneering tour. lie carried it to his room,
at the hotel, where he stopped, and read it over;
and again and again did he read it. lie formed
first one plan, and then another, but none that oc-
curred to him had the approval of his judgment.
He had now given the entire night to the conside-
ration of this attack upon him, without having been
able to come to a satisfactory conclusion; and as
the sun began to gild the eastern horizon he gave
it up, in the utmost despair as he exclaimed, while
he drew from his pocket a handkerchief and wiped
from his face the perspiration with which it was
drenched as with a shower: "Why! oh! why did
I commit that blunder!
"Where glow exalted sense and taste refined,
There keener anguish rankles in the mind;
There feeling is diffused through every part,
Thrills in each nerve, and lives in all the hearL"

ChAPTER VIII.
"Oh! how many deeds
Of deathless virtue and immortal crime
The world had wanted had the actor said
I will do this to-morrrow!"

Barber, oui~ readers will recollect, was not pres~
ent at the bar-supper, but was absent from home.
He returned upon the train about five in the morn-
ing, in pursuit of Judge Jones, to whom he had
sent a record for the allowance of a writ of error
and supersedeas in an important criminal case.
On reaching the Judge's residence he learned,
from Mrs. Jones, the fact that the Judge had gone
to the State capitol for the purpose of procuring a
pardon for Hamlin, and hoping to overtake him,
he followed to the seat of government, but was a
very few moments too late, and consequently com-
pelled to wait for the evening train upon which
he reached home, as above stated.
While at the ticket office, he was informed that
Judge Jones had remained over, and intended going
out on the six o'clock train. He, therefore, repaired
immediately to the Hotel for the purpose of obtain-
ing from the Judge, his record with the allowance
of his writ before the Judge could leave.

I;
F
I.
U
p


96

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

When he called he found the house closed, but
after considerable "noise and confusion," he suc-
ceeded in rousing a porter, who knew nothing
about Judge Jones. He, accordingly, made his
way to the apartments of the landlord, and after
some: delay, ascertained the number of the room
occupied by the Judge. "But," remarked the
hotel-keeper, "you had better let the Judge sleep,
and call down after breakfast and see him. it has
not been long since he retired, and he was most
'gloriously fuddled.' I doubt very much whether
you can do any business with him, even if you
should be so fortunate as to get him up."
I must see him immediately," answered Barber.
"He intends going out upon the train which leaves
in less than half an hour, and he is probably now
up."
The landlord protested. Barber insisted, and
finally snatching a lighted candle, which stood upon
a table., he started for the Judge's room; on reach-
ing which, he found Judge Jones incapable of be-
ing roused. After several ineffectual efforts to
awake him, he turned to his carpet sack, which
chanced to be unlocked, and took from it a bundle
of papers containing the "aforesaid" record, and
among the papers, his eye fell upon a sealed letter,
addressed, in the hand-writing of his Excellency,
the Governorto the Sheriff of the counting which
Ilamhin had been tried, convicted, and was that
day to suffer the extreme penalty of the law. Bar-

f2

ThE UNJLT~T JUDGE.
ber stood a morn~ent, though usually cool and de-
liberate, now agitated beyond what in The most
try in g exigences of his life he had before experi-
enced, he exclaimed: "Is that a pardon, a commu-
tation, a respite, or any thing to do with the Ham-
un execution ? "-answered his own interrogation
by saying : "It must have something to do with it,
else why writtdi ?"
Again he attempted to arouse Jones, hut was
no more successful than before: all that he could
get from the drunken official was an inarticulate
grunt, quite as unsatisfactory as could be imag-
ined.
Barber here took ~ut his time-piece and discov-
ered that he had scarcely time to reach the depot
before the train would leave. With the prompt-
ness and decision of a man of intellectual and
moral worth, determined to deliver the letter to the
sheriff; and accordingly started for the train at the
top of his speed-which he reached, and upon which
he stepped, just as it had gained a motion that a
second later would have precluded the possibility
of safely accomplishing.
Barber seated himself in a car, entirely alone.
The agitated state of his mind was better felt than
described, and wholly unfitted him for compan-
ionship: though several gentlemen and ladies were
on board with whom he was intimately acquainted;
he preferred to commune with hi~ own thought~.
7

n
II
H

H

h


98

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

After the lapse of an hour he broke out in the
~foIlowing soliloquy: "Jones doubtless knows! It
is scarcely possible that it is a pardon. If so, would
Jones have incurred the risk of not having it reach
its destiny in time to save the victim of his folly?
Impossible!! It cannot be a pardon. Well, is it
a commutation of his punishment, or a respite?
If either, and not a pardon, it is quite as impor-
tant that it should reach its destination before the
time for the execution shall have expired. "I,"
continued he, " doubt if it is either or any of them.
But what it is? Jones has been to see the Coy
ernor; and I recognize that superscription as the
hand-writing of his Excellency: and if not a par-
don, a respite or coinrntitatioii, why should Judge
Jones be carrying this thing to the Sheriff, at this
particular time? It must be one of the three. Why
did he not proceed on his way last evening, and
not defer till to-morrow?
Tomorrow is that lamp upon the marsh which the traveler never
reacheth:
To.morroW. the wrecker's bcacou--wily snare of the destroyer.
Theoncile conviction with delay, and to-morrow is a fatal lie 1"
"But," continued Barber, "thia folly yes, moro
than folly-this crime of the Judge, is~ upon rc-
flection, easily accounted for. I have no idea he
intended to become drunken at the time of the
Hamlin trial: yet he was quite intoxicated through
its entire progress. The Bar of N. ought to share
with the Judge the ignominy of that affair. He

A
i

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

99

is amiable and rather passive in such matters, and
drank at their solicitation, oftener than he would
if left to his own volition. Intemperance is a so-
cial vice, into which a good man is liable to
fall. It is seldom that a man not distinguished
for his social qualities falls into the sin of drunk-
enness; and it is quite as seldom that the penu-
rious, close-fisted individual is submerged by the
waves of intemperance: and hence Jones has been
victimized. It is scarcely possible that a man of
his peculiar temperament and mental organization,
traveling over the State, and constantly coming in
contact with members of the Bar, who are as con-
stantly urging him. to drink, should escape the vice
into which he seems to have irretrievably fallen.
it is a theme for tears, to feel the soft heart hardening,"
I have not a doubt but he reached our town last
evening, en route for N., and was met ~t the de-
pot by Leblond and other kindred spirits, and per-
suaded to remain over, and I have as little doubt
he was by the same influence induced to drink im~
moderately."
Barber ~vas now nearing the place of his desti-
nation, when the engineer who had charge of the
train, was discovered to be quite intoxicated, and
putting the train through at a rate without a pre-
cedent.
The conductor stepped forward and charged
him with being under the influence of liquor, and
having it concealed about his person; all of which
7*


100              TIW  UNJUST JUDOI~.                                                       TiI1~ UNJUST JUDGfl.            101

be doggedly denied, and refused to surrender his
post; telling the conductor, that, while he had his
duties assigned him by the superintendent, he was
entirely independent of the conductor, and woul(l
act his own pleasure.
The conductor had scarcely retired to the back
end of the train, when the engineer, in passing
through a deep cut, and around a curve at the
extremity, saw some cattle upon the track, only a
few hundred feet before him-he attempt ted to re-
verse the power, but slipped, or rather stumbled
upon a stick of wood, he had left carelessly in his
way, missed his aim, and in an instant the locomo-
live was upon the cattle ; three of which were kil-
1~ed-the train off the track, and its engineer un-
der its ponderous wheels, a mangled mass of las-
cerated flesh.
Barber was now about eight miles from the ~'il.-
lage of N., with sufficient time to reach it upon a
fleet horse bat where was it to come from?
He started for a farm house, in the immediate
vicinity of the disaster, in front of the door of which
he saw a horse fastened to a ~)ost, and upon reach-
i~ng it he untied the animal and mounted, while the
owner stood at a distance, in amazement at the
1.oldness with which the dextrous thief, as he sup-
posed, galloped off his favorite animal.
Barber pushed his horse, which was somewhat
logy, to the top of his speed; and would occasion-
ally take out his watch, and as he flew along, count

the minutes he had lcft. While descending along
and steep declivity, his horse fell, and threw Bar-
ber some distance from him, but without either
lmorsc or rider sustaining any serious injury. For-
tunately, the horse rose and stood perfectly still
until Barber again mounted and was ready to pur-
sue his journey. Very soon after this second dis-
aster, Barber came in sight of the multitude and
the scaffold. And as our reader has been al-
ready apprised of what occurred between this and
the delivery of the letter, we shall not stop to re-
capitulate.
The Sheriff immediately tore off the envelope
and i'ead aloud, not a complete pardon, but a com-
mutation of the death penalty to perpetual con-
finement in the State pr~~n; at which a greater
manifestation ofjoy was evinced by the crowd than
was exhibited by the convict.
Judge Jones, whom we have left in a death-like
siLlinber, at length arose; and finding he was left
by the train, repaired to the telegraph office; but
there had the pain and mortification to learn that
the wires were severed and no communication could
be had with N. His feelings, now wrought up to
a perfect pbrcnzy, he immediately employed ami
extra train of cars, at a heavy expense-deter-
mined to repair the wrong if in his power-and
reached the scene of Barber's first disaster, but a
few minutes after the latter had started on horse-
back for N,

U


102

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

The extra train was upon the ruins of its prede-
cessor, before it was discovered, and the crash was~
frightful. But Judge Jones was among the few
fortunate who received no material injury. After
he recovered from the confusion occasioned by the
shock, he concluded that all hope of reaching N~
in time to save Hamlin was cut oW and he entirely
lost self-possesion, and raved like a mad-man. As
soon as the paroxism had subsided, he became a
pitious picture of agony, and exclaimed:
"Why did not Heaven, in its just wrath, crush
me beneath that broken and chaotic mass? If
this train shall fail to reach there in time, I shall
terminate my troubled existence, if there is death
in that instrument;" laying his hand upon a well
charged revolver, ensconced in his breast pocket.
The lives sacrificed by the collision of the trains,
it is no part of our present purpose to stop and re~
count; but suffice it to say, they were offered
upon the altar of rum; and that the tears of scores,
by it made widows and orphans, have embalmed
their memory.

4

'F

p

CHAPTER IX.
\~jt may be assailed, but never hurt;
Snrpvis' 4 by unjust force, bat not euthrall'd;
Yet even that, which mischief meant most harm,
Shall, in the happy trial, prove most glory:
.2JIillon.
J~nkin's confession, removed all doubt that lin-
gered in the minds of any, as to the guilt of Ham-
liii; and measures were taken, immediately after
the disclosure, to procure for him an unqualified
1ardoi~, to restore him again to his family and so-
ciety; all of which was done before he was con-
veved to the Penitentiary.
Ou~' readers xviii recollect that the name of Ham-
fin, as xvell as Jenkins, had been announced in the
public prints, as a candidate for State Senator:
but as soon as suspicion attached to him of hav-
ing murdered his brother, the papers which had
hoisted his name, dropped it; and at the death of
Jenkins, his also met with the same fate; while
the names of other prominent menr in the Sena-
torial District, were announced. After his libera-
tion from prison, he determined to close up his
business and retire to a farm in the country, and
devote the balance of his life, in obscurity, to do-.
mestic peace ~n4 enjoyment. In pursuance of.


104            ~I~HE UNJUST JUDGE.                                               ThE UNJUST JUDGE.           105

thisplan, he was, a few days subsequently, sitting in
his office, which had been closed for several weeks,
arranging papers, accounts, and dispatching busi-
ness with his usual facility, when he was aroused
by a large crowd about the door. lie was taken
1)y surprise, and a little startled, at tbe moment.
Various thoughts flashed across the horizon of his
mental vision. 1-fe, previously confiding, had lost
confidence in the integrity of his fellow men. his
first impulse was to escape through the back-door,
and in that way to leave the mob-for such he, at
that moment, regarded it-to the empty enjoy-
ment of disappointment. But, again, it occi~rred
to him that no harm could be intended; that
though he had occupied the f~lon's cell and the
felon's gibbet, yet subsequent developments,
"strong as proofs of holy writ," had established
his innocence; and then, it would be unmanly to
exhibit fear; and he decided, in less than half the
time it has taken us to write it,, to wait the result.
In a f~w moments a huzza for ilamhin went up
that mate the wilkin ring, and he was loudly called
for. He rose, stepped to the door, and bo~ved;
when one-a gentleman of some celebrity, and
considerable notoriety, from an adjoining county
-stepped upon a store-box, which chanced to be-
lying in the neighborhood of Hamlin's office, and
remarked, that the concourse of people then before
his Honor, Mr. Hamhin, was a delegation from dif-
if~r~ut poi~tion~ of the Senatorial districtt ;mctj~

I

I

that time, for the purpose of respectfully request-
ing him to be a candidate for the Senate. That
many prominent reasons had dictated the move-
ment, butt most prominent, was his fitness for the
position. That he had suffered all that could he
inflicted upon man, but death; which infliction had
grown out of an evil that was increasing apd
spreading, and destined, if not arrested, to deso-
late the fairest portions of the globe.
The speaker here paused for a reply.
Ilamlin, from the door of his office, said that no
man could more fully appreciate their kindness
than himself; that lie had suffered much-every-
thing butt death and a consciousness of guilt;-
that during his darkest hours he had enjoyed-
What nothing earthly gives or can destroy;
The souls calni sun~hiue, and the hearifolt joy
Of virtues prize."
lie was now willing to make any sacrifice to ban-
ish the evil of drunkenness from the land; and,
indeed, from all lands; but he could not, as he
he thought, be made believe that his promotion to
a seat in the State Senate, would accelerate the
happy day when no man would dare make his
neighbor drunk; that if lie conid be persuaded of
the fact, he would consent to be a candidate, not~
xvithstanding it would be exceedingly unpleasant
for ~him to come before the public. That there
were other gentlemen's names now before the peo-


106            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                            'IHE tINJIJST JUDGE.         107

pie, for the office, who would be able to render the
cause much more valuable service than he could,
and therefore he would, most respectfully, beg
leave to positively decline the honor they had so
kindly sought to bestow upon him.
"You must be a candidate !" went up from scores
and hundreds; "arid no other ~vill answer our
purpose !"
Again their was comparative silence, and the
speaker upon the box proceeded to say, he was
inclined to the opinion, that however averse Mr.
Hamlin might be, to the use of his name in con-
nection with the office, the people would vote for
him-most gladly with his consent, but most cer-
tainly with, or without it.
Hamlin remarked, that the 'synagogues ofsatan'
were numerous in the di~tvict, and as it was uni-
versally known, in every county of which it was
composed, that he had suffered severely from the
evil of intemperance, it would' of course be pre-
sumed, he would advocate, to the extent of his
ability, a stringent prohibitory law; and that, there-
fore, the liquor influence would present an unbro-
ken front in opposition to his election. That in
or~.inary times, and under ordinary circumstances,
to be a target, and receive the shots of malice from
unprincipled and irresponsible demagogues, was
quite as much as a man of common sensibil-
ity could' endure; and that having passed so re-
cently through a world of trouble, to come ii~ con-

U

tact with this army of drinking men-goaded to
desperation by the thought of having the liquor
traffic interfered with, many of the more reck-
less and desperate would not hesitate to fling into
his teeth his late misfortune, and he would come
out of the fight, certainly not more than second
best, covered with the filth and the slime of the
contest, without remedy; and, therefore, must be
permitted to decline the honor of being their stand-
ard-bearer.
"We," exclaimed numerous voices, "will take
care of your character, and of the rum influence,
too ! " And at this moment the crowd pressed
upon him, while two of the more sturdy yeomanry,
present, seized Hamlin, and bore him off upon
their shoulder~ to the front of the printing office,
where he was detained until a deputation was sent
in ~itli orders to xvithdraw the name of every man
previously announced, and to run up Hamlin's.
This done, they proceeded, in like i~~ani~erto two
other printing establishments in the village, and
produced like results. Heavy delegations were
sent to each county-seat in the District, and the
name of the other candidates for the office ordered
out of the papers and Ilamlin's inserted.
ilamlin and his friends soon discovered that
he had not been mistaken in anticipating unflinch-
ing opposition from the liquor influence. On the
evening after Hamlin was forced to be a candi-
date, a caucus ~vas held in a liquor store, with

I

,f


~hIE UNJUST JUDGE.              109

108                       TIIF~  1~NJTYST   JUDG1?~.

closed doors, and by dawn of the next morning',
their plans and arrangements were matured, and
messengers dispatched to every nook and corner
of the District, with long visages, and the sad in-
telligence that a temperance move had been made;
and that, without extraordinary exertion, Ilamlin,
from whom the liquor traffic had no mercy to expect,
would be elected.
"Past hope of safety 'i was his 1ate~4 care,
Like fallen Cre~ar, deeciitly to die."
Admiring the philosophy of Dryden, one of
Jiamlin's most formidable competitors chose xol-
untarily to withdraw from the contest, a few days
previous to the election, and so informed his friends
by every possible facility.
Now came the tug of war. All the horses and
buggies in the Distri6t, were brought in requisition,
and for the two days preceding the day of elec-
tion, hundreds of men were in motion, and actively
passing from point to point in the District, and
from house to house. In passing around, a friend
of Hamlin chanced to come in contact with one of
the patrons of the groceries, who was attempting
to make his way home, but had fallen by the way~
side and was lying in a helpless condition. lie
raised him up and helped him on to his desolate
abode, which was not far distant. On his way, the
poor drunken wretch urged our friend to use all
his influence against Ilarulin's election, and took
from his pocket a bundle of handbills, which h~

I,

said he was to circulate in his neighborhood.
These bills, which were, without delay, carried to
iLlamlin and his friends, contained inflammatory ap-
peals to the friends of the traffic, urging them to
spare neither time nor money in procuring every
man in the District opposed to a prohibitory law,
to be early at the polls, nor cease their exertions
until the ballot-box should be closed.
To counteract the effect of' these hand-bills with
which the country had been flooded, th.e Flamlin
party threw out one, and thousands of copies were
sent into all parts of the District. About Hamlin's,
there was nothing of the inflamatory character. It
~vas an earnest and powerful appeal to the sober,
moral, and better portion of community, to rally
and save themselves, their friends and the country,
from the blighting and scathing curse of intempe-
rance.
An excitement now perx-aded the District, with..
out precedent ther , or elsewhere. The morning
of the election dawned upon hundreds of
horses harnessed f2r the purpose of conveying the
sick and infirm to the polls; nor was there any
abatement of exertion, upon either side, until after
six o'clock, when the statute declared the ballot
box should be closed. On one side there was a
contest for principle-for morality-for peace, pros-
perity. and every thing that tends to promote the
welfare of society. Upon the other side, it was a
contest into which eAtered all the baser passions

1
y


110            THE UNJUST JUDGES

and feelings of our fallen nature, and consequently,
the "latch-string" of every grocery and liquor-
dealer in the District, was "hung out ;" and in all
these abominable sinks of iniquity, whiskey, and
all kinds of alcoholic drinks, were poured out,
"without money and without price," through the
entire day. The result was that every jail in the
District was, during the following night and the
next day, filled to overflowing with the wretched
victims of the traffic.
But virtue and temperance triumphed. The
electors of the District had, in their candidate,
Hamlin, a monument of the evils of spirituous
liquors; and when they heard his name mentioned,
they were reminded of their duty to society. They
rallied, and he was elected by an overwhelming
majority; yet he did not exult, nor allow his
friends, when he had the means to prevent it.

~1

ji

CHAPTER X.
The brave do never shun the light;
Just are their thoughts, a~~d O~Cll are their tempers
VTh.iIY without disguke, they love or hate;
Still are they found in the fair face of day,
And heaven aud men are judges of their actions.~Powe.
To the invitation Barber sent Leblond, to meet
him and discuss the political principles which sep-
arated them, as partisans and politicians, Leblond
made no reply through the p"~, but sent him a
private note, which we give, as follows
"Sir: You will find before the campaign closes,
if you have not already, that I intend pursuing my
own course. I shall not object to you doing what-
ever you may think advisable. You will find my
sentiments on the subject of public discussions, in
the following lines of Ot way-
"You may have known that I'm no Wordy man,
Fine speeches are the instruments of knaves
Or fools, that use them when they want good sense."
~L. LEBLOND."
As Leblond's note was as equivocal as it was
insulting, Barber determined to be present at the
time and place designated, lest Leblond should

110


TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.           113

112            TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

be there and take advantage of his absence. At
the time appointed, Barber appeared and discus~.
sed his political opinions, for about two hours, be-
fore a large crowd; and when about to close, a
drunken tavern-keeper, of the vicinity, whom Le-
blond had sent to annoy Barber, called on him to
define his position upon the Maine Law.
1-lere Barber was somewhat nonplussed, but re-
solved to make the most of it, by an effort to cx~
pose Leblond as well as the landlord.
See here, old customer," said Barber, "you
keep a tavern down here in the country three or
four miles, I believe ?"
"Well, Ido."
" You sell liquor, I suppose ?"
"Well, I don't d.o any thing else."
"You don't do anything else, eh? It must be
profitable ?"
"Yes; I suppoi4 my family honestly, and that
is more than you htwyers do, unless you are terri-
bly lied on."
"Hoxv many children have you, my old fellow ?'~
"Just the same number that followed John
Rogers to the stake, only, I believe, there is none
at the breast."
"Well," said Barber, "that is quite a respecta-
ble family. Oh, J)ardOn me; I mean respectable
in point of number.~~
"Well, I guess as how my family is as respecta-
ble as yours."

j

That may be, but if you continue to sell liquor
it may soon become questionable."
"1 am an honest man; I want you to mind that,
as you go along, old lawyer!"
"Certainly, certainly!" said Barber; "men of
your profession are all honest. But to whom do
you sell liquor?"
"Why, to my neighbors, to be sure; who else do
you think I would sell to? I never sold any to
you, that's sartin."
"No," said Barber; "nor that is not all, you
never will."
"Did you ever spend any thing to treat your
friends with?" said Boniface.
"Not very lately," said Barber, "nor, do I think,
I ever will. If I can't get votes~ without buying
them with whiskey, I shall be content to do with-
out them."
"That's just the difference between.you and Mr.
Leblond. lie drinks a horn with me, every time
he comes along; and that is pretty frequently,
about these times; and he always pays for it, too;
and I don't think it's anybody's business but his
own, neither, if he pays for it. And if he happens
to leave a few dollars with me, to treat his friends,
I don't think that any of your business. If I give
as much liquor as the money is worth, who i~
cheated, old feller? Can you answer me that, old
hoss ?"

T
3

4


114            THE UNJUST JUDGE.

I

THE UNJUST JUDGES

115

"Oh, yes," said Barber; "1 can tcll very soon
-you are cheated; Leblond is cheated, and his
friends also ;if not the public."
Well, old lawyer, you think you 'r smart; but
you 'II see, when the votes are counted, who i~t
elected. If you doift come up missing, old parch~
ment, about them times, I have lost my skill. Stick
a pin there, xviii you ?"
"~l~at may all be true, and yes. I shall not be
cheated, as I do not wish to succeed, unless by
honest means; and the man who buys votes with
whiskey, even if succe~sfi~l, is worse cheated than
the defeated candidate."
"I guess, old hess, if he pays tile money, and
gets the votes of his friends u ho drink his liquor,
nobody is cheated bad but the candidate that's dc-.
f~ated, because was too stingy to treat a little."
"That may comport with your notions of hon..
esty, but I call it bribery ; and the candidate who
is guilty of it should be sent, for a series of y cars,
to the St ate pris on."
Old lawyer, you woul(I'nt (larst tell Mr. Leblond
that V
"~No man who is capable of such baseness, i~
manly enough to resent it when charged with it.
The elective franchise is a most high and invalu-
able privilege ; and the man who will pander to the
baser passions and appetites of scored men, for
the purpose of obtaining their support, and thus
prevent freedom of thought and action at the bai~

lot-box, is as much worse than the individuals he
imposes upon, as satan is lower than before he
was cast out of heaven."
"You tell Mr. Leblond that, old chap, and he'll
thrash you like Sam Hill; and, for a cent,' I 'd give
you a little ;" beginning to pull off his coat.
"My friend," said Barber, "You say you sell
liquor to your neighbors; now, will you tell us
how many you sell to?"
"That's none of your business. That's my con-
barn.
"Well, well," said l3arbe~; "you have been ask-
ing me to define my. position upon what you call
the liquor law. This I will do if you keep good~
nature, and ansxver my questions."
"I didn't come here to be questioned; but if you
must know, I suppose about eight or ten regular
customers."
"They all have families?" said Barber.
"Yes; they all have families, too."
"Large families, I suppose ?"
"Yes, Large families."
"Well, they are poor men, too, I suppose," said
Barber," and labor hard 2"
"They work hard, occasionally, and live on what
they earn."
"You get about all these eight or ten men carm
Supposee"
"I reckon I gits a good deal of it."
2*

114


ii
I
'1
1
V
I

THfl UNJUST JUDGE.~

"It takes about all you can make in your tavem
down there, to support your family decently ?"
"Is that any of your business?"
"Why, yes, I think so."
"Well, then, it does take about all I can scrape
together; But 1 (10 it honestly."
"Of course, you do it honestly ! But if you get
all the money your eight or ten customers earn.
and can scarcely live comfortably, then what be~.
comes of the families of your customers, and
where is their comfort ~n4 support to come from ?"
Oh, that's none of my business. I don't mcd-
(lie with other peoples business. I would be a
pretty fool, indeed, if men would come and offer
me money, to refuse it. You wouldn't catch a law-
yer at that kind of game; eh, old ferret-eye! would
you, ha?"
"That would depend very much upon circum--
stances, whether you ought to take the money
when it was offered to you, by those poor, hard-
working men. You certainly ought not to take
it from their families, who need it worse than
yours, unless you give them an equivalent. Whis.
key is certainly not a valuable consideration, for
the husband and father is worse off with it than
without it."
"I've nothing to do with their families; I have
enough to do to keep my own. We 'ye got a Poor
House; if their is any danger of their suffering,
let them go there."

THE UNJUST JU~CE.

117

1160

'I
8
14
a

Well," said Barber, "I begin to feel some in-
terest in this matter, as I live in this county, and
am one of the tax-payers. Now, instead of send-
ing these eight or ten families to the County Infir..
mary, had we not better send you, and your familxr
there? It would be easier and cheaper to support
and sustain one, than eight or ten, and if you are
out of the neighborhood with your whiskey, these
eight or ten men would be able to support their
families respectably."
Before Barber had closed the above sentence,
the tavern-keeper was seen making his way out of
the crowd, grumbling as he went. Barber called
to him-urged him to return and hear his views
upon a prohibitory law; but he passed on, and
doubtless, xvi th no very pleasant reflections.
~.rfhe\, that fear the aclder~s Sting, will no~
Collie near his hissing."
said Barber. "It is truth my old friend is unable
to withstand. We are told-
When clouds are seen, wise men put on their cloaks."
So, you see, my fellow-citizens, this foolish; yes,
this wicked practice of dram-selling, and dram-
drinking, will not bear the touch of truth and inves-
tigation. Its advocate, on this occasion, as its
friends must upon all occasions, when brought to
the point, a&amp;t upon the principle, that
"The better part of valor is discretion,"
run off, and leave their cause to the 'tender mer-
cies' of its enemies, to be mutilated and torn, a~
their feelings and views may incline them.


Ii~              THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                                   TIYS~ UNJUST JU'DGF~.

{           Barber now went on to remark, that his opin~
were well understood in that 'community-that he
ions, as to the necessity of a prohibitory liquor law,
never had any concealment to make-that his
views upon that subject, could have nothing to do
I          with his duties, as a member of CongTess, no more
than his notions of the divinity of the Koran-that
4          there could be no legislation by Congr~ss, involv-
ing the heavenly authority of the one, or (he ne~
cessity of the other,-that, as he disdained dis-
guisc, he would say he was in favor of a law that
would amount to prohibition; and that he cared
'V
not by what name it should be known, as it might
be quite as efficacious by one as an other.
He had no doubt Leblond would derive great
satisfaction from the public avowal he had just
made. "No declaration's for the public eye," was
his competitor's motto-that he did not know butt
A          the result would prove it the true policy; yet he
could not reconcile it with his views of manliness.
Though he had made no public declarations upon
that, or any other subject, he had made numerous
contradictory private ones; and as he had a speci-.
men of the private communications of the gentle.-
rnan-about as non-committal as anything he had
seen in print, or elsewhere,-though private, it was
in answer to a public challenge he had made him.
Drawing from his pocket the note of Leblond,
which we have given at the beginning of this
chapter, ~read it, and then added,, that if he had
jtii

~?elt inclined to trifle, he might have 'sent the gen-
tieman, in answer, the following lines from Young's
Love of Fame:
A man of sense ca~i artifice disdain,
As men of wealth may venture to go plaint
I find the fool, when I behold the screen,
For, 'us the wise mans ii~tcrest to be seen?'
~LBtlt,)~ continued Barber, "I am iir favor of a prr
hibitory law that xvill effectually protect us against
the greatest curse with which Go cI has ever per-
mitted the human family to be ailhicted; and in
comparison with which. all other moral evils sink
into utter iflSi~"I1ihCaIWC. This foulest whelp of
iin creates more misery, wretchedness, and xv oe,
than a combination of all other causes. The
ruinous extent of intemperance, would nex er
be known, or fully appreciated, until the bottled
tears of millions upon millions of widows and or~
1)l~alls-made such by its agency, with its other un-
told miseries and wron gs-sh ould be c hibited
amid the scenes of the Judgment day."
He went on to say, that he would not stop to
delineate the tendency of this vice to annihilate all
the finer feelings of the human heart. That he
should not stop to show hoxv effectually it con-
verted the kind husband and indulgent father into
the veriest demon--how it robbed the social circle
of its brightest ornaments-how often it struck
down the most honored among the sons of science,
literature, and statesmanship-how it filled our


\\

120

THE~ UNJUST JUDGI~.

earth with tears and woe----how it brutalizes all
that come withi~i its fatal grasp; petrifying every
thing by the magic of its touch; but would content
himself, by noticing its effects upon us as tax-pay-
ers and members of society.
He argued that in this golden age, things were
judged of in the light of the~ big dollar. That
which reached into the pocket received immediate
attention, and was the only avenue through which
some men cotild be reached. That the pocket ar-
guinent was usually successful when all others
failed. here, he showed, by facts and figures, the
expenses of the county to be about six thousand
dollars, for the three years preceding; and that, by
a careful inspection of the causes that led to the
commission of crime, the startling statistical fact
was derived, that a fraction over four-fifths of all
the crime committed in their county, during that
period, had been produced, either directly or indi-
rectly, by the use of alcoholic drinks as a beverage.
That if they would add to this the expense of sus-
taining the poor, made so by intemperance, they
might have some idea of the amount they paid
annually, in the shape of a county tax, for the sup-
port of this vice. A sum suflici~nt to support a
first class academy in their county. That when
they added the cost of the liquor, the time spent in
drinking and recovering from its effects-the de-
struction of property by fire, and other accidents
corwtantly oceuring from its use, they had an eno~-

ThE UNJUST JUDGE.

121

mous sum-an amount sufficient to endow and
sustain an excellent College in their midst; from
which would flow out streams of intellectual and
moj~al culture, irrigating and fertilizing the entire
community.
He insisted, that if a sister county would at-
tempt to lay their county under a contribution
equal to the one extorted by this vice, that instead
of laying down under the oppression, they would
soon evince the spirit of "76." That from lad to
gray-haired sire, all would "draw the sword and
throw away the scabbard," in maintenance of their
rights. Yet they were submitting to an oppres-
sion more grievous in its character, imposed uNpon
them by the rum traffic.
"Your duty, my fellow-citizens," said he, "to
yourselves, your families, your friends, your neigh-
bors, to community, to posterity, to truth to pro-
gress; your duty as citizens, as politicians, as
Christians; as men in the varied relations of life,
imperiously demand that you should lose sight of
all other questions-local or political, of every hue
and complexion-in the selection of your legisla-
tors, except the all-absorbing question of banish-
ing intemperance, the invader of your rights, 'more
terrible than an army with banners.'"

V


THE UNJUST JUDGE.          123

CHAPTER XI.
Now, one 's the better-then. the other best
I3oth trying to be victor, breast to breast
Yet neither conquer, nor is conquered;
So is the equal poise of this fell war.-Skaksp'ar.

In the Gazette, published a fexv days after Bar-
ber made his temperance speech, we Iind the fol-
lowing in its columns:
There is now going off, in our Congressional
District, an exciting contest for Congress, between
two eminent lawyers, both distino'uished for their
ability, but not alike distinguished for their fair-
ness and candor.
'Tis great, 'tis manly, to disdain dis~nse,
It ShOWS our spirit, oY jj ~YOYCS OilY
Though we differ with Mr. Barber, politically,
we are pleased with his frankness, and his manly
method of electioneering, while we cannot accord
to Mr. Leblond our entire approbation.
"There is a disease, extensively prevailing,
among the political aspirants of the present day,
we loath and detest; and we can find for it no
more appropriate name than that of demagogue-
ism. Whether Mr. Leblond has contracted the in-
fection is a question we shall not now stop to in-

K

vestigate, but we will, say, if Mr. Leblond should
choose to 'stoop to conquer,' the record made by
Barber, thus far, justifies us in the conclusion, that
he has no disposition to imitate Lebloiid's example.
'Stoop to conquer,' is a sentiment unworthy of a
talented, virtuous, and high-minded man, aspiring
to be a statesman. It is unworthy of the enlight~
ened age in which we live.
"We very much reget the position Leblond has
deemed it important fQr him to occupy upon the
temperance measure. It is not involved in the
light; and it is, therefore, neither honest nor manly
in him to drag it into the controversy, and attempt
improperly, to make capital out of it against a
man too honest to disguise his sentiments upon
that or any other subject upon which the people
focI an interest. But what is worse, he is said to
be at every point of the compass upon this subject.
Chameleon like, he assumes the peculiar hue of
those around him at the moment. If this be true,
it is base, and eXhibits him unworthy of public
confidence. We have lono'~ince come to con-~
the
elusion, that the man who will deceive you for the
purpose of getting your vote, will betray you in
sacrificing y our interests after he has your vote,
if he has any motive to actuate him; for most cer-
tainly, there is no more want of principle in the
one than in the other.
"By taking this coure we are incurring the fear-
ful responsibility of bringing down upon our devoted


124            THE rJNJUST JUDGE.

I

head the maledictions of the Sachems of our party.
flut we say, let them come tumbling down thick
and fast; we can endure them-we can endure
anything, in. preference to be found fighting
against truth, virtue, and the interest of the people.
"The Maine law ean scarcely be said to be a
political question in our State, at the present time.
That it will eventually become a political ques-
tion we have no doubt. Why it should not-and
one, too, of the first magnitude--is more than we
can imagine. Why a question, involving the inter-
ests and welfare of the people-the whole people,
in every condition. and situation, in every lane
of life-should not be regarded in the light of a po-
litical question, is profoundly mysterious. We
have always supposed that l~ political government
was instituted for the protection of society, and
that political parties were organized, encouraged,
and kept up, for the purpose of compelling govern-
ment to look closely and vigilantly after the inter-
ests of society. It is possible that we may have
been in error. If not, then this question must be-
come, is now, a momentous political question. The
Currency question, the Tariff question, and the
question of Internal Improvements, have each in
jts day, been a political question intensely excit.
ing; yet none of these questions-all of them come
bined-involve less of the true interests of society,
than the question of a prohibitory liquor law. It
is claimed, upon no less authority than the lion.

Edward Everett, that ardent spirits, within the
last ten years, has cost this nation a direct expense
of over six hundred millions of dollars, and an in-
direct expense of six hundred millions more.-
That it has, within that lime, destroyed over three
hundred thousand lives; and consigned to our jails
some two hundred thousand more; and made pau-
pers of over one hundred thousand of our children.
That it has, within that period, caused some two
thousand maniacs, and i)roduced over three thou-
sand suicides-has made some two hundred thou-
sand widows, and not less than one million orphan
children-instige ted over fifteen hundred murders;
and within the same length of time, burnt and de-
stroyed over five millions of dollars worth of prop-
erty.
If these are facts, and who can doubt them, sup-
ported as they are by the testimony of some of the
first political and literary men of the nation? are
they not startling, and sufficient to rouse every
man capable of thought, upon the subject, and
stamp the question as political, beyond controversy,
and of the most weighty import?
"We lay no high claims to Cassandra gifts; yet
we will venture the prediction, that the time is not
far distant, wheum, if a man present himself as a
candidate for political preferment, the first ques-
tion propounded to him, will involve his othordoxy
upon a prohibitory liquor law, and that he must
answer it affirmatively, or his hopes of success xviii
be blighted."

THE UNJUST JUDGE.         125

125

124

e


126

THE UNJUST JUDGI~.

In the Republican, of the following week, a pa~
per published in ami adjoining county, echoing the
political sentiments of the Gazette, we find the
following
"Halloo, there, you man of the Gazette, please
tell us; When did you stop drinking? We shall
very soon expect from you an essay on moral phi-
losophy! Can you not favor us with a short hom-
ily, in your next number, upon the moral and re-
ligious culture of ciLlidren, or an exegesis of some
dark and mysterious passage of Holy writ? You
must not, however, contemplate a union of Church
and State; for, we assure you, it would meet with
but littl? favor in this meridian. But, badinage
aside, might it not he well for you to leave morals
and religion to the clergy, where they properly be-
long, while you devote your time and energies to
less weighty matters, to wit: the political move-
ments of the day?
"If Mr. Leblond be defeated, the sin must lie at
your door, Mr. Gazette. We shall wash our hands
of all responsibility connected with his defeat. We
will keep our skfrts clear, whatever course others in
their wisdom, riiay see proper to take. We fear some
personal matter between the Gazette and Mr. Le-
blond, has had much to do with this opposition.
"We must say, from a long anti intimate per-
sonal acquaintance with Mr. Barber, we esteem him
very highly as a man and a citizen. lie is a law-
yer of distinction, and a perfect gentleman and

we may go further, he is an honest man and a sin-
cere Christian, and we are attached to him and ad..
mire him; nevertheless, we cannot vote for him,
simply because we differ from him politically. We
could not vote for our father, nor a brother, if he
differed with us in politics. Barber is spending
his energies in pulling down, what we are attempt-
ing to build up; and we, with our might, are pub
ling down and destroying what he is exerting him-
self to establish. Now, it strikes us with consider-
able Three, that consistency, as well as fealty to
party, requires us to use all honorable means
within our reach, to sustain the nominee of our
party. We are supporting measures, and not men.
There is principle involved here, and hence we
would sustain and vote for the representative of
our principles if he were the merest 'man of straw
without reference to the ability, qualifications, or
character of the man who was his competitor.
And this we conceive to be the duty of every par-
tisan. We can imagine no state of things that
would justify a different course.
" Mr. Leblond does not get drunk that we know
of; and so long as he keeps sober we c4re not if he
drink every day, and every hour in the day, he ~s
temperate enough for our purpose.
"Whom may not sc~nda1 hit? those shafts are shot at a venture.
Who standeth not in daffo'
blest."    ~ei' of suspicions that net liath caught the no-
"We hope our friend, of the Gazette, will give
this matter the thought and ~reflection due it, be-

THE UNJUST JUDGE.         127

127


I
I,
4-

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

129

128           TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.
fore he takes upon himself the responsibility of de~
eating our candidate for Congress. That he can
produce much dissension and trouble in his own
county, if not in other portions of the District, we
have no doubt. If from personal dislikes, or other
reasons, he is unwilling to give Mr. Leblond that
support to which he, as the regular nominee of the
party, is entitled: we hope he will, at least, remain
neutral. We admire the philosophy of the sick
child, when, on being told he must swallow the
nauseous drug, closes its eyes and gulps it down."
All the papers of the District, belonging to Le-
blond's political school, chimed in with the Repub.-
lican-the Gazette standing isolated and alone in
its opposition to Leblond. To thc above article,
the Gazette, in its next issue, replied as follows
"This gulping process, and blind adhesion to
party-particularly, when there are no political is-
sues; no principles upon which the American peo-
pie are, or can be divided-a mere scramble for
patronage; a contest for the 'loves and fishes '-
we regard as one of the most unfavorable indica-
tions in the signs of the times, and one that har-
bingers anything but th~ growth, progress, and
welfare of our country~
"The religious and literary press present an unbro-
ken front, in hostile array against intemperance.
Now, is there any reason-can any reason be urged
why the political press should not fall into the
ranks, and labor unitedly for the banishment of

4-

this great and fearful curse of our race. Let us
suppose this state of things for the brief period of
two or three years: who could estimate the result?
Tippling would in1med~ately become unpopular.
The manufacturers of, and dealers in liquors, would
seek other investments, upon the principle that
rats desert a sinking ship, and the traffic would
cease almost as by magic.
"We cannot be in error as to the potency and
influence of the press; all will acknowledge it. It
makes public sentiment-regulates the actions of
men-brings men, measures, and systems into no-
tice, and renders them popular or odious, tt.t its will.
What a responsibility! What a coming to judg-
ment awaits those who wield the press, if it shall
I
~)e found they have compelled the scale of virtue
to kick the beam. Are not those, then, who stand
at the helm of. the press-who guide and give di-
rection to it-bound by every tie that can bind
man to man; by every tie that can bind him in the
relation he sustains to heaven and the arbiter of
worlds, to throw the entire weight of its influ-
ence in the side of virtue? Vice is, and has been
since the fall~ we had almost said, the only formi-
dable enemy of the human race; and in whatever
shape it may rear its deformed head, it is every
good man's pleasure, as well as duty, to contribute
his utmost effort to strike, it down. How much more
imperious the duty of those who stand upon the'
watch tower to "cry aloud and spare not?"
9


130            TUE UNJUST JUDGE.                                           ItIE UNJUST JUDGE.          331

"When aii alarming vice extensively prevaiV
the press is criminally at fault. When the press
brings its powerful park of artillery to bear upon
any particular vice-that vie~, whatever shape it
may have asssurned, however deep it may have
sunken its roots in the popular prejudice or have
~been sustained by the allied l)O1VC~5 of darkness--
it is blown to the four winds of heaven.
"For one, we shall act fearlessly, and indepen-
dently! We shall do
What conscience dictates to be done"
and let consequences take care of themselves.
This is duty, and a man is in little danger of erring
when in the faithful discharge of his duty.
Re that has light wihin his own clcai. hc~st,
Nay sit i' the centre, and enjoy bi'ight day;
Thit he that hides a dark soul, and foul thoughts,
Benighted. waWs under the mid-day sun:
flirnself is his own duug~on."
"But, we are told that Barber xxiii, if elected to
Congress, vote against and oppose the cherished
measures of our party. What measures, we ask?
We repeat, there are no party measures. The
old measures are all settled, and the people are
acquiescing in the settlement. 1-low much divine
agency there was at work in bringing about tlii~
happy state of things-that the people, during the
repose, might roll on this great temperance, refor-
mation to the final extinction of the terrible scourge,
~-we shall not now stop to enquirer.

~'~Before we close this artiel~, we will give our
readers an item that will be news to most of them.
Last Spring we jumped upon the cars, and in a
few hours, was ii~XVashington city. After the
lapse of a short time we strolled down to the cap-
itol, and was there met by two or three members,
in the hall of the house, who took oui' arm and
invited us to accompany them-which wedid-first
up one flight of stairs, and then another, through
one nari~ow passage after another, until we finally
came to a door, upon which our friends gently rap-
pcd~, and was answered fvom the inside, by "who's
there?" The pass-word was given by us, and we
were admitted into a room where we found a ta-
ble covered with provisions and liqmiors, and we
were requested to cat and drink. We lingered
there, purposely, for near an hour, to solve, if pos-
sible, the enigma. During our stay, we saw some
thirty or forty members come and go, but observed
no money was paid. The more we tried to un-
ravel this strange affair, the more mysterious it
appeared to us. After leaving the room, we in-
quired of one of the members what it meai~t; and
~vas told the clerks, doori~eepers, nwssengers,
post-masters, and other hangers on, im.~ ~nd about
the capitolhad raised by subscription among them-
selves, the amount necessary to defray this expense.
But still we did not fully comprehend it until du..
ring the lp~st honrs of th~ session, a bill was intro-
4uced into the I-loose, by a. member we had ob~


I
I
Ii
:11
L~j
Ii
,iI~
hI
II
hi

served frequently passing up to the "refreshment
room," to pay these subalterns an extra allowance
of two hundred and fifty dollars each. Now, it
was, that the object of this grdcery in the Nation-
al Capitol, flashed across our mind. Members by
the score, had visited this room, during the (lay and
evening, and had drank of their liquor, and now
they were called upon to put their hinds into the
public treasury, and take out about the round sum
of one hundred thousand dollars. It was too late
for discussion. Several distinguished gentlemen
endeavored to obtain the floor and expose the
glaring outrage, but were unable. While some
of the patro~is of the Congressional grocery were
crying "order, order!" others were bawling, "ques-
tion, question! Give us a chance to vote! Let us
have no speeches! Question, question !" And
the bill passed in the midst of a scene that would
have disgraced a back-woods country tavern, on
Holy-~eve night.
~' Disgusted at the ludicrous farce, leaning upon
the arm of a young gentleman of our acqu aintance,
-who h~d been, for the preceding two years, a clerk
~connected with one of the departments, at a salary
of fifteen hundred dollars per annum, we sauii-
tered up th~ Avenue. "Where do members get
their authority for this novel proceeding?" we in-
quired.
"They do it," said he, without authority."

L

ThE UNJUST JUDGE.

133

"But, how can conscientious men, acting under
oath, be so reckless of the people's treasure?"
"That's easily got along with. Conscience with
few exceptions, has little to do with such matters.
That is only one item," continued he, "and, should
I mention to you the ten thousand methods resort-
ed to here, for bleeding' the public treasury, it
would challenge your credulity."
"XYhy," answered we, "is there no integrity
left in the human heart?"
"It cannot be denied that drunkenness has a di-
rect agency in all these peculations upon the gov-
ernment funds."
in 'vhat way?" said we.
"You have seen how the extra allowance was
voted through. The probability is, that not a mem-
ber was spoken to upon the subject. The liquor
and refreshments were puPchased and taken to the
capitol, and members invited to partake, with a
kind of implied understanding that they were to
vote us extra pay. Now," continued he, "if the
city authorities want an appropriation-an old,
stale Jndian claim is to be paid-a mail line of
steamers to be coiitracted for, or other stupendous
project for the depletion of the treasury, set on
foot, money is raised in proportion to the magni-
tude of the appropriation asked for, and this
money put into the hands of men who will use it
skilfully; and members are watched, and even
Senators, are treated into a -conviction of the just-

ttlfl LXNJUST 3uflc1~.


/

'7'.'
I

ness and propriety of placing theif sacrehgiou~
hands upon the public funds for private purposes ~
and this is done with out regard to party. And as~
the members of both political parties are generally
implicated in these frauds upon the government,
the party papers dare not attack the villany. There
is usually a mutual dependence between political
editors and politicians, and hence these enormi-.
ties are tolerated and not exposed."
"Why, that is a terrible state of things
"It is nevertheless true~ Before men, as society
has hitherto been organized, cai~ become success-
ful politicians, they must contract the habit of tip-
pling, more or less; and before they pass through
the various grades and stations that fit them for a
seat in Congress, many of them become regular
and confirmed drunkards; and the cupidity of th~
unprincipled scoundrels, who will lend their agency
in this crusade against the national treasury, seize
upon this vice and use it for their base purposes."
"Do these plunderers of the treasury, often suc-
ceed?"
"Much more frequently than you would un-
agine. The men you elect and send for the pur-
pose of representing your interests and protecting
the treasury of the Republic, many of them, are
reached through this seductive vice, and their in-
fluence brought to bear, in this way, upon these
grand and magnificent frauds upon the public
treasury ..'.'~,

135

"The above is the testimony of an intelligent
and conscientious young man, who unhesitatingly
refused to take the extra allowance, and who had
all this kind of thing for two years under his ob-
servation. Upon evidence so clear and free from
suspicion, who would dare claim that a dissipated
and drunken man was fit for any position of trust
or responsibility? For our 'own part; we never
expect to vote for a man of dissolute habits for
any office, high or low-we care not to what po-
litical party he belongs. We hope soon to see the
(lay when merit and true worth will constitute the
elairns-and the only claims-to office. Until this
period shall arrive, the people are greatly exposed
to imposition from brawling demagogues and
empty pretenders."

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

di
11

41.
ti)
~fl
4.~ f


THE UNJUST JUDGE.         137

CHAPTER XII.
~~ To what gulfs
A single deviation from thc track
Of human duties, leads.-Bii'ron.

"We have had a sad time since you left,~' said
an interesting little girl, that had the appearance
of having seen about ten summers, to Leblond, as
he unlocked the door of his office; "and mother
wishes you to call round as soon as convenient.
Where have you been so long, Mr. Leblond? I
have been here three or four times a day, for the
last two weeks, and have not found you till now."
"Oh, I have been in the country, visiting my
friends," answered Leblond. "What is wrong
with you, sis, this morning?"
"Father has been acting so badly-lie has been
treating us so unkindly! He turned us all out in
the rain, the other night, and we got as wet as ducks,
and little George is quite sick since. Mother tried
to get in with the little fellow to prevent him from
getting wet, but when she went to the door, fa-
ther would push her back, slam the door in her
face, arid stand against it! Poor little dear, how
wet and cold he got! Mother has rocked him ir~
the cradle every night since, and now she ~s s~ch,"

I

L

"Is your father at home?"
"No indeed; he is in jail, and has been, nearly
ever since you left."
"In jail ?" Inquired Leblond, "For what ?"
"They say he broke into a warehouse, one night,
and took a dram of whiskey, and that he must go
to the Penitentiary. You will not let them send
him there for that little thing, will you, Mr. Le-
blond?"
"Certainly not, if I can prevent it. lie ought
not to go to the State prison for so petty an offence
as that."
"Ma does nothing but cry and rock little George,
since pa went to jail. We are all so sorry for pa,
he has talked so good, and been so kind to us since
he went to prison, lIe has been sober all the time,
wants us to get him out, and says he will never
drink any more. WThen he is sober, he is very
good and kind to mother and the children. We
want him home again; you will help us, Mr. Le-
blond, won't you?"
"I will," said Leblond, and immediately locked
his office, and started to see Mrs. Sibley.
Upon entering her door he remarked, "Your
daughter has been narrating a most unfortunate
state of things, ~vhieh appears to have occurred
since I left. I hope the picture is not quite as dark
as sl~e has drawn it?"
"The picture could not be overdraxvii-thc half
h~s not been toTd;" sighed~ Mrs. sibley. "And,"


THFI UNJUST JUDGE.

~ontiirned she, "Jane could give you but a me~rc
idea of the condition of things, and the trouble we
have had since you left town, on account of Mr.
Sibley. You are the only person of his acquain~
tan~e who can exert over liima beneficialiufluence.
No sooner had you left then he became entirely
unmanageable, and has given us a world of trouble.
I am ~o distressed) life has become a burden. Oh!
that the curtain would drop upon this scene ! I
sicken and grow faint at the thought of its exten-
sion. I have hugged the delusive hope that I should,
~sooner or later, be able to reform him; but en~
treaties, tears, and prayers, are alike unavailing ;
and he seems to be letting himself downy lower and
lower, and every succeeding day cutting himself
more and more effectually loose from every re~
straint; and now, I fear, he is in difficulty from
which it will be extremely difficult to extricate him."
While she wept, in the wildest despair, for several,
minutes, and then sobbed-" Misery and suffering
is my doom until the grave, which I trust is not
distant, shall come to my relief.
"Jane informs me he is in prison. What are the
circumstances which led to his arrest?"
~' The facts are few. I was present at the ex~
examination before the magistrate, and it appeared
that Thomas Johnson, about nine o'clock, two
weeks ago to-morrow night, had occasion to step
into his warehouse; and after he had unlocked hi~
door, he heard a noise-immediately struck a light,

&amp;~~d discovered Mr. Sibley concealed behind a cask
ofliquor; that he enquired of him how he got therc~,
and what he was doing; to which Mr. Sibley replied,
lie raised a window sash and entered; that he
had taken nothing, and intended to take nothing
but a glass of whiskey; and that, having got it,
he was ready to leave; that he was induced to go
in, for the reason he had been without liquor nearly
all day, and without the means of getting it other*
wise. You will now tell me, frankly, what you
think of his case, so I may be prepared for the worst
feature it can assume? Can it be, be is liable to
be sent to the State prison for taking only one glass
of liquor? XVe feel that the poor, unfortunate man
deserves our sympathies rather than our censure."
Lebloiid said he had no doubt a technical bur~
gi ary had been committed, for the commission of
which, Mr. Sibley, if vigorously prosecuted, might
bc sent to the State prison; but as Sibley had few
personal enemies, he hoped the prosecution could
be suppressed. lie would do all he could to avoid
a prosecution, but if he should find himself unable
to prevent it, then he would defend him with all
the power he possessed.
Mrs. Sibley hoped to God he would. She said
he had been very cruel to her and the children, but
it was now more his misfortune than his fault.-.
She said they had earned some money, the two
boys had labored about two months, at four dol-
lars per mot~th,; the girls had been making some


THE UNJUST JUDGE.         141

140

THE UNJUST JUDGfl.

shirts while she had been washing; and, that
among them, they had accumulated about twenty~
five dollars, the amount clue upon their rent, and
they were threatened with being ousted if they did
not pay it; that Sibley had managed to get the
most of it, which he expended for liquor. "lie,'
continued she, "saw me receive six shillings from
a lady, for whom I had done a large washing, and
insisted upon my giving it to him, but knowing he
intended to buy whiskey with it, I of course refused;
he insisted and pressed the matter until I told him
it was useless to urge farther; when he became
enraged and struck me a violent blow, and I fell
to the floor and was, for sometime, insensible.-~
When I recovered my children were standing
around my bed, where they had darned me, weep-
ing. I saw no more of Mr. Sibley, for two days,
and have not since seen the six shillings. When
I fell I suppose he took the money from my bosom.
I thought so, not only for the reason the money
was gone, but because of his long absence. The
unprincipled liquor retailers would not have kept
him about them a moment longer than his money
was exhausted. Mr. Leblond, you may think it
pretty strong language for a lady to use, but I must
say, if the devil do not catch these scamps, 1 am
unabl~ to see the use to which a hell could be put,"
and added, she could detain him fo1~ many hours in
relating her grievances, and the bad conduct of her
unfortunate ~tnd ruined husband; but that, not-

V.;

withstanding, she could not endure the idea of his
going to the Penitentiary.
"I have," continued she, "been frequently at
the jail, since his imprisonment, and he promises
reformation; and it may be if he can be saved
from the consequences of this folly-for it was not
a crime-he may yet live to be a blessing to his
family, and useful to society. I have nothing with
which to compensate you, hut hope you will spare
no pains."
Leblond said he wanted no pay, and would'
exert himself to save him. The term of Court
at which he was to be tried, was approaching;
and Leblond, anxious to see his old friend and
preceptor again enjoying his liberty, called up-
on the public Prosecutor to ascertain if the pros-
ecution could not be stopped, but was informed,
"that such had been the base and infamous char-
acter of his treatment to his* family, that commu-
nity," in the language of the Prosecutor, "was
down upon him; that public opinion was op-
posed to his enlargement until he had paid the ut-
most penalty the law could inflict upon him ;"
also, the additional fact, that Barber wa~ retained
to assist the Attorney for the State in the prosecution.
Leblond immediately repaired to the prison, 'for
the purpose of having an interview with Sibley.
lie found Sibley, who was when, perfectly~himselg a
clear-headed and talented lawyer, keenly alive to
a sense of the critical position he occupied.


TUE UNJUST JUDGE.          143

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

After a long and tedious consultation, it was de-
termined between them, that Sibley must rely for
hope upon the inexperience of the young Attorney
for the State, who was, by no means, skilled in the
technicalities of criminal pie ading.
The Grand Jury found. and presented "a true
Bill" for burglary, in which it was charged, "that
Sibley, on the twenty-seventh day of September,
about nine in the night season of the same day,
felon eously, burglariously and forcibly, broke and
entered the warehouse of Peter Snook's with in-
tent then and there one gill of whiskey of the val-
ue of three centsthe property of Thomas Johnson,
then and there b~~ingfo~~n(lto steal take and carry
away, contrary to the statute in such case made
and provided, and against the peace an(i dignity of
the State."
The Defendant, after a careful examination of
the Indictment, insisted upon his constitutional
right of a speedy triaL Thereupon a Jury was
called, erupanneled, and sworn, a tiiiie verdict to
render according to the law and the evi(lence,
Barber, fur the State, rose and said he regretted
the condition of his former friend and competitor
a17 the bar, but necessity compelled him to say, the
Defendant was guilty as he stood charged; that
the testimony would disclose that on the night of
the twenty-seventh-of last month, the Defendant,
~jblev; had entered the warehouse of Thomas

Johnson, by hoisting a window sash; and stole one
gill of whiskey."
Barber said that he had no language adi-
quate to the task of 'conveying a faint idea of his
feelings upon so solemn an occasion. That when
he reflected, the Defendant was a member of the
bar-once an. honorable and distinguished mem-
ber-with as high hopes and, flattering prospects
as any man in, or out of the State; it pained him
to the heart to see him now ajuiseral~ie wreck of
his former self; without. hopes, without money,
~vitho~t every thing-.ev en without friends, except
his unfortunate wife and children ; and they, and
they alone, of all the world, notwithstanding his
brutal treatment of them, still clung around
4
him. The man, once the pride of the community
in which he lived, now so low that
"None S) poor as do him reverence.
It was not only painful to the feelings, but was
deeplyy humiliating, to see a ma:~ of such brilliant
talents and high cultivation; reduced to so deplor-
able a condition, by tippling. Wit.h lofty and in-
teresting prosl)eets beckoning him onward and
upward, he had allowed a beastly appetite to dis-
troy him, regardless of the fate of an affectionate
wife and dependent children. Jilis duty compelled
him to insist upon a verdict of guilty. The pen-
alty, he conceded, was very severe, yet the man who
would commit a Penitentiary offence for the sake
of three cents worth of liquor, could be of no poe-

142

A


j44           ThE UNJUST JUD~fl.
sible use to himself, his family, or society-was a
living, walking, nuisaflCe and it would be better
for himself, for his family, and the community in
which he lived, to have him in prison than out.
There he would have time and opportunity for re-
flection-for reformation~fOr resolves and re-re-
solves, with ample space to carry them into practice.
Mr. Leblond rose ~tnd said, in substance, their
defence was a legal one; and that it might be true
if his client escaped the Penitentiary, he would be
less indebted to his ovvu virtuous puii~poses and ac-
tions, than to the blunders and want of learning of
prosecuting counsel. That it was with extreme
pleasure he was able to announce to them the
startling fact, notwithstanding the confidence of
counsel on the part of the State, that his client
was in no more danger of being immured in the
Penitentiary, than his friend Barber was, of being
elected to Congress; and after indulging in several
other light and facitious remarks, sat down.
The State introduced Tom Johnson, who testi-
fled that he had rented the warehouse of Peter
Sr&amp;o~ks, who was the owner, and that he was in
possession at the time of the breaking: that Sib-
ley had acknowledged, when he found him in the
house, he had stolen and drank about one gill,
which was worth two or three cents. Here the
State rested the case.
On the part of the defence, no crQss-examina-
tion was desired; and the State having rested, Le-

THE UNJUST JUDGE.         145

K

-a

blond rose and moved the Court to discharge the
prisoner upon the ground of a defect in the indict-
ment, to wit: that the warehouse was laid in Peter
Snooks, while it was in the possession of Tom
Johnsow-.-clairned, it aught to have been laid jn
Johnson-produced two or three authorities upon
the point, and closed.
Barber stated to the Court that he had paid little
or no attention to the indictment; but supposed, of
course., it was correctly drawn, and closed by ~e-~
marking that:
"Quirks aud quibles have no place in the search after truth."
The Court ruled the defect, in the indictment,
fatal; and directed the jury to return without leav-
ing their box, a verdict of not guilty of burglary,
but guilty of petit larceny, and find the value of
the property; all of ~vliich was done-the pris-
o ncr remanded-and-the jury discharged.
Qn the mori~ing after the conviction of Sibley of
petit larceny, he requested the Jailor to have his
two boys.-one about eleven, and the other thir-
teen years old,--brought to see him. After the
interposition of the necessary length of time, the
boys were admitted into the cell. When the fath-
er addressed them as follows:
"My dear boys, you see my condition; you see
the wretched state of things to which my folly
has reduced me. Ifad it not been for my habits
of intemperance, I might have been, if not the.
Iirst, certainly among the first lawyers of the State4K
10


146            THE UNJUS~1~ JUDGE.

Might have been in affluent circumstances. Yes,
rich; with means of giving each of you a thorough
collegiate course, as well as a finished education
to each of your sisters; with an ample fortune left
for your mother and myself to lean upon in the
decline and evening of life. I could have reachie~i
almost any political position in the State and na-
tion, to which my vanity might have induced me
to have aspired. But I have sacrificed my personal,
and my political hopes. I have sacrificedwealth
the hopes of my family~---thcir peace and comfort.
I have sacrificed~ reputation and character, P~~'-
pies and conscience, seifrespect a~nd self confP-
dence-every thing-all gone! Nothing left !--
simply because Ii allowed myself to contract the
ruinous habit of drinking. It came upon me
gradually, but certainly, until I am ruined, undone;
disgusted with myself and the rest of the world.
No confidence in man, and less in myself-a l)oor,
miserable, three-cent thief; without hope in this
world or the world to come. Now let me request
you never to drink even one (Irop of any thing
that will intoxicate; lest, like your unfortunate
father, you may gradually contract the habit, when
your rudn-temporal and eternal-will be sealed..
In order that you may avoid the fatal rock upon
which your father has been wrecked, will you not
swear eternal hostility to alcoholic drinks ?"
His sons, having signified their intention to take
the oath, were requested to hold up their right

/
V
ft

F

146

THE UNJUST JUDGE.        14?
hands, when he ad ministered to them the follow-
ing oath: "You, and each of you, do most sob
emuly swear, by the living. God, you will never
drink any spirituous liquor, as a beverage; that
you will never traffic in the same, and that you
will wage a war of extermination against its use,
as well as abuse. This you promise, as you shall
answer to Almighty God, in the judgment of the
Great day."
"Oh!" continued Sibley, "h~td I taken a simi-
lar oath in youlh, and observed it faithfully, what
a blessing would it not have been to myself, my
family, and the community in which I have lived?
But I am a pool ruined, degraded wretch; unfit to
live and unfit to die.
"Now, return to your poor, distressed mother
and sisters, and make them as happy as in your
power. Tell them I, too, have taken a solemn
oath, liver again to let liquor enter my lips; and
urge them to pray God that I may be enabled, re-
ligiously, to observe my solemn vow to heaven."
Towards the close of the term the court directed
the Sheriff to place Sibley at the bar; and at the
close of the morning business, Judge Alban thus
addressed the prisoner:
"John Sibley, stand up! At the present term of
this Court, the Grand Jury of this county, fifteen
in niTh~iber, chosen to that position on account of
their known and acknowledged integrity, wisdom,
and virtue, have found and ~returned, upon their
10*

I-

147


148.           TIlE UNJUST JUDGIg.

solenrn oaths and affirmations, against.you, a bill
of indictment for burglary. Upon this charge, if
found guilty, you must have been confined for a
series of years, in the Penitentiary, and there kept
a.t hard, labor-shut out from society-a branded,
degraded crimh~al. Your fragile physical consti-
tution, which has already begun to give way, from
xrour dissolute habits, would probably have sunk
beneath the restraint there imposed upon you; and
it would, in all human probability, have been your
grave. But for an inexcusable blunder on the part
of the officer of this Court, charged with preparing
the indictment, it would now be my painful duty,
in pursuance of the laws of the State, to consign
you to a felon's cell; to deprive you of~ liberty; to
take from you the blessings of society-7-the atten-
tions of your friends and their sympatliy~-deprive
you of all that could attach you to life. And I
am by no. means satisfied that it would not be bet-
ter for this community-better for your family and
for yourself-if that mistake had not occurred.
Had you went to prison, in the solitude of your lone
cell, you would have had ample time for thought
and' meditation; and had you survived the period
allotted, you might have come out a better man;
and you might, to some extent, be better prepared
to resume those duties which you once so faithfully
discharged to your family and society. It is true,
an indelible mark would have been set upon you,
but an honest, upright course of conduct, for a few

years, would partially have restored you again to
f       the confidence of society; and though you would
be in a crippled condition, you could, I doubt not,
have passed down the stream of time much more
agreeably to yourself, and others with whom you
might chance to be connected. II3ut now, you are
soon to be mixing again with the world, and by
your 'profligate habits, carry pestilence into the
bosoni of domestic society;' and it is difficult to
conjecture where your unhappy career may termi-
"Now, Sibley, you are a man of talents, and
ought to be a man of sense~ Your former posi-
tion in Soeiety-your position at the bar-your pro-
found legal and political knowledge, induce me to
regard you as more than an ordinary man. Will
you not reform and be yourself again? Let me
conjure you, by all you hold dear and sacred in
life, to turn. This Court feels a deep interest in
your reformation. We recollect, with a feeling
compounded of pleasure and pain, some of your
distinguished and brilliant efforts at this bar.-
Pleasure at the promise of future usefulness you
gave, and pain that we have been doomed to dis-
appointment. This Bar frels a deep interest in
you. Had your powerful intellect, backed up by
a virtuous life, been exercised in rolling back the
turbid wave of crime that is spreading ruin, deso-
lation and death around; what obligations might
you not have thrown societyunder to you? But

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

1311

I

149

148


1~O                T1I~ UNJUST JUDGI.

more,-a must sqlemn and sacred 'duty to your
family, requires that you should reform,. and go
immediately to their aid and protection.
"For my own part," continued Judge Alban, "I
have but little confidence in your reformation. A
hope can scarcely be entertained for a man who
has no self-respect; who is so far lost to every
sense of common decency, as to inflict violence
upon the person of the wife of his bosom; and
while she was in a state of insensibility, upon the
floor, from the effects of the brutal blow you had
given her, take from her person the pittance she
had earned over the wash-tub, and made yourself
beastly drunk, the better to qualify you for your
cruelty towards her, whom you have solemnly
sworn at Hymen's altar, to love, cherish and pro-
tect.
"Would that I could reach the inmost m~ccesses
of your corrupt heart, cicatrized as it is, with insen-
sibility and guilt, that I might feel around its dark
cavities for some dormant germ of love to God or
man, upon which to hang a hope that you will be
yourself again, but
'Whore is that Promethean heat
That can thy light resume q"
"The sentence ~f this Court is, that you be taken
to the jail of this county, and confined in the dun-
geon thereof, for the period of thirty days, and that
you be fed upon bread and water only, and that
you pay the costs of this prosecution. Mr. Sher~
if remand the prisoner."

I
I

CHAPTER XIII.
Men are but children of a larger growth;
Our appetites arc apt to change as theirs,
And full as craving too, and full as vain.L~Dryde~i.
A few evenings subsequent to Sibley's trial,
Judge Alban, Prosecutor Lahm, Sheriff Sikes and
four or five members of the bar, met in a saloon,
~and after drinking freely, Leblond commenced
i~ arratm g Judicial anecdotes, which Judge Alban
inunediately rccogniz ~d as a part of his own his-
tory. For sornetinie the Judge attempted to i'epel
the force of them by an assumed dignity, but it
was too thin a covering to conceal his wounded
pride. By this time the company was joined by
several other legal gemitleniian, who aided in pour-
ing in upon the Judge, hot shot from every direc-
lion. While some were quoting portions of his
charges to the Grand Jury, and other weak sayings
~of the Judge, in which he had evidently been court~
ing public favor, others were pretending to give
the 'Judge's experience and want of success in his
political struggles and electioneering schemes.
"Now," said the Judge, "a truce to this, and I'll
call in the whiskey punch."
"Agreed! agreed!" responded the crowd.

I


I~.

152

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

"No," said Leblond, "I must reserve the privi~
lege of telling one joke at the Judge's expense."
"And I shall insist upon the same right," re-
marked Lahm~
"I have one that is new," said another, "and
has, probably, never been published. I can scarcely
agree not to tell it."
"Why, d-n it," said the Judge, quite petulently,
"you intend to get my whiskey, I suppose, and
then continue your annoyance ?"
This produced quite a roar of laughter, and
loud calls for the hot punch.
Presently, the whiskey punch arrived, piping
hot, and our professional gentlemen seized it with
as much avidity as if it had been the elixir of life,
or the dissolved pearls of Cleopatra, while it sa~
vored more of the hemlock of Socrates.
"Well," said the Judge, with a pompous air,
"this reminds us of olden times, when we traveled
the circuit on horseback, and after reaching Court,
through the mud and over swollen streams, we
would try causes all day, and play cards and drink
whiskey all night."
"I know but little of the usages of other days,"
exclaimed Leblond, "but it reminds me forcibly of
modern times and recent events."
"Perhaps, after all," said the Judge, "there has
not been so much change. The bar always drank
too much."
"How do you account for that?" said LeblondJ

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

153

"1 account for it in this way," replied the Judge.
"Lawyers frequently attend foreign Courts, where
they not only meet their brethren of that particu-
lar bar, but of distant bars, and often have but one
or two causes, which are not reached upon the
calendar for several days, and in the meantime,
they are sauntering about town with time hanging
heavily upon them; while they are invited to drink
often twenty times per day, and after having drank
repeatedly and freely, it becomes their turn to treat,
which they must do or be thought penurious; so
the babit is formed unconsciously. We are terrb
bly exposed; terribly, gentlemen, terribly !" While
IIC guzzled down his hot punch without seeming
t 6 know, or care, what he was saying.
"You, I am told, Judge, have heen able to play
a strong game at old sledge, poker, &amp;c. &amp;c.," said
Lahm."
"in my younger days," replied the Judge, "I
was hard to beat;" swelling to near twice his
ordinary dimensions with pure, unmixed dignity.
"Indeed? I have understood you lost frequently,
and in fact, all you made for many of the first
years of your professional life."
"Do you intend to insult me sir?"
"Not at all," replied Lahm, "but common ru~
mor says you were troubled with the shorts, about
those times, from that and kindred causes."
"I was most cursedly alarmed for Sibley, at one


154           TUE UNJUST JUDGE.                                         THE UNJUST JUDGE.         155

time during the progress of the trial," said the
Sheriff. "It looked very much like conviction."
"You didn't understand it," said Alban. " Why,
do you suppose I would allow a man to be sent to
the Penitentiary for stealing three cents' worth of
liquor? No, sir! II have too much sympathy for
that class of men."
"From the manner in which you Ic turned Sibley~
I might add, insulted him ; J would readily suppose
your bowels of compassion yearned e~ or him
But I would be glad to know by what authority y ou
could interpose between a cruninol and his fate,
when his destiny was fixed beyond cavil, by the
testimony and the well settled law of the land ?"
Well, sir," said the dodge ; while he seem~ ]
to be gathering the ermine around his inflated and
polluted person ; "you would have had th~ pleas-
ure of witnessing the authority by which I would
have interposed between Sibley and his fate, had
not your blunder saved me the necessity."
"My blunder, as you term it, was innocent, hav-
ing resulted from oversight; but, had I averred
Johnson the owner of the property, you could not
have saved him, and regarded your official oath.
You could have committed moral perjury, by a
total disregard of that oath, and so you could in
every cause tried at bar. But bad the infamous
Jeifreys attempted as flagrant an infraction of the
law, and disregard of official duty, even the down-
trodden people of that iron age, would not have

tolerated it. So far as principle and law are con-
cerned, I can see no difference between your inter-
posing code, and the code of Judge Lynch. You
can run riot over law, justice, and equity; as you
have the power, and frequently the will-and his
Honor, Judge Lynch, can do no more."
"There are many things you do not comprehend.
You could not, or did not, see the importance of
averrm g the warehouse to be the property of John-
son. Your pitiful allusion to my peijury fell short
of its mark; my feelings are proof against vulgar
persoi~alities. I will take care of the jury, and you
too, when it shall become necessary."
Taking your history," said Lahm, " as the
standard by which to judge, I would suppose you
about as illy qualified to discharge the important
duty of taking care of yourself, as any man in the
community in which you have lived. And I would
suggest to you the propriety of taking some care
of public opinion, which, if t have properly inter-
preted the signs of the times, will very soon give
you 'fits.' You can have but little idea, I appre-
hend, of the deep-toned thunder muttering, every-
where heard in disapproval, when you interposed
between justice and the negro who committed the
outrage upon the young girl, below B. But I med-
itated no assault upon your feelings. I am quite
too well acquainted with the obtuseness of your
sensibility, to attempt anything of the kind. There

[


156

THE UNJUST JUDGE

are some men whose feelings can only be reached
by pounding their fingers with a hammer?
The Judge was a large corpulent man, and slow
in action, as well as in speech; but was leisurely
gathering himself up for the encounter. When
Lahm, rising to his feet and assuming a belligerent
attitude, said: "Permit me to say, sir, you are the
greatest judicial tyrant that ever disgraced the
bench in ancient or modern times, Lord 'Jeffreys
not accepted."
Before our worthy Prosecutor had closed his
bitter sarcasm, Judge Alban had thrown aside the
ermine in a heap, with no inconsiderable amount
of his assumed dignity, if he had not done it be-
fore, and was upon his feet in a fighting posture,
ready for a fisticuffs. And had not an ex-Judge,
who happened to be present, interposed, it would
have terminated in more than a war of words.
Here, the Sheriff proposed an amicable adjust-
ment of all differences, over an additional bowl of
hot whiskey-punch, at his expense. The Judge
and Prosecutor swaggering assent.
Leblond insisted that Alban -and Lahm should
shake hands, and go through the ridiculous farce
of drinking each other's health from the same
flask, which he drew from his pocket filled with a
choice article of brandy, as a condition precedent
to bringing forward the punch. Lahm took the
bottle, and before drinking, said: "Here is hoping
the Judge, in future, will hold the scales of justice

i
I

4

x

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.             I~7

with an even hand, and be an honor to the bench,"
But added,-in an under tone, distinctly heard by
Alban, and all present-" he 'IL have to change
like h-~-ll, if he do,"-imrnediately drank, and hand-
ed the bottle to Judge Alban; who took it, and af-
tei' holding it up and looking at it a moment, said:
"Here is regretting that you are what you are, but
hoping for a reformation is hoping against possi-
bilities."
iNow," exclaimed the crowd, as with one voice,
"for the punch, for the punch !-ptinch! punch ! !"
But the punch was a little tardy, which was unfor-
tunate for Leblond's bottle, as it was called for,
passed round, and emptied of its contents.
At length, the new recruit of punch was on
the tapis, and all in silence for sometime contin-
ned to sip the nectar, when the stillness of the oc-
casio a was interrupted by Lahm remarking, that
he had great difficulty in getting witnesses before
the Grand Jury, at the recent term of the Court,
and"-
"Well, and wh- what of it?" hiccoughed Judge
Alban, breaking in upon Lahm's unfinished sen-
tence.
"iNothino' "replied Lahm, "except that I intend
the censure and responsibility of this thing, shall
rest where it properly belongs. I am followed up
and chased down by temperance men, and my
path beset on every side, by grocery influence. I
a~m damned if I do, and damned if I don't; and

I


158

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

'I
F
I
[1

I
1.
4
H I

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

159

now, Pm damned if odium for keeping witnesses
away from the Grand Jury, shall not lie at the
door of somebody. I used every effort in my power
to have John Smith, Abner Jay, and others, sub-
p~naed before the Grand Jury, but failed. I even
went so far as to procure an attachment, which
the Court reluctantly granted, but that attachment
was never served; and I very much suspect it is
still in the hat of Mr. Sheriff, if he has ~ot de-
stroyed it.
"This thing is all wrong, and the people are in-
quiring into the " whys and wherefores," and are
not satisfied short of a direct and positive answer,
and I am resolved to give it-crinijuate whom it
may. Drunkenness is deQimating the land, and
fearfully increasing our taxes, and the better por-
tion of community are waking up to their true in-
terests upon this subject. Why is liquor sold by
every grocer, merchant, and tavern, in our town
and county, in violation of law, and in defiance of,
law, is a question that must be answer; and all
I have to say at present is, " stand from under," I
am conscious of having done my duty."
" You will p1~ the d-l, and smash things,"
said the Sheriff.
"I shall let the facts be known," retorted Lahm,
"and if they shall 'smash' the prospects of some
of your drunken deputies, and nip their hopes of
promotion to the Sheriffalty, you must blame it
upon their failure, to discharge their duty."

I

"Would it not be well for you," said Alban, "to
wait until you. get sober before you commence lec~
touring on temperance? It is silly nonsense for you
to assume so sa.intly a position. 'We all know
you, and your habits; and th~t you have derived
as much political aid from winking' at that sin, and
(lancing attendance upon the liquor influence, as
~tny man among us. You cannot deny, sir, that
you are indebted, for the official position you now
*     occupy, to the we4~1ity argument, among the
uvimken rabble, that you could carry more liquor
without a jug, than any of your competitors.
V
en were elected through that influence, and you
at'e now either hypocritical or parricidious."
VVellj' said Lahm, "I have the merit, at least,
of being' on bitt one side at the same time. While
I have been for, or against the liquor traffic, and
have never occupied (lubious ground ; you have
tiot only been constantly upon Ihe fence, but al-
ternatel y, upon beth si(ies of it at the same time.
Y on dare not deny, sir, that you have delivered
temperance sPeeches during the day, to the Grand
.Tiirv, in which you have said, the man who sold
his iwighbor liquor and made him drunk, was
worse than if be had stolen his property; and
through the night following, gamble and become
as drunk as Bacehuts, and scarcely able to reach
home, in the morning, without assistance. Yet,
with all these irregularities, wheil upon the bench,
you assume a dignity that would repel even The

H
I


10

THR UNJUST JUDGE.

Ii
4
A
II
h
Ii

161

Autocrat of the IRussias; and then, how pure,
-moral, just, and impartial-a finished professor of
cithics as well as law-2-yet the ample folds of er~
mine is insufficient to conceal the tyrant, partien-
larly after a night of debauchery."
"You must not disgrace us by a fight and a
row here," stammered Leblond, as he staggere(I
between the belligerents. "Bring us a mint ju-ju-
julip."
Judge Alban, pleased with the prospect of more
liquor, remarked, it has been said, 'music hath
charms to soothe a savage '-though he repelled
the idea that they were savages, yet he thought it
might have a beneficial influence upon their angry,
turbulent passions, and make them in love with
all about them; and that he would, thereibre, give
theni a specimen of his Scotch music; and he, ac-
cordingly, went off into one of those happy moods
which always indicates the amoiint of canvass he
had flung to the breeze.
"Judge," said Leblond, "you are of Scotch ex-
traction, I think I have-understood?"
"'Yes," answered Alban, as he swelled like the
toad in the fable: "I am a lineal descendent from
that noble, noble woman -' Mary, Queen of
Scots!'"
"A descendent of kings, eh?" retorted Lahm.
"Yes," replied Alban, "more-of Queens."
"Ye gods !" paid Lahm: "how the blood has
degenerated !."

What is the benefit, when our appearance as well
as our actions, stamp us every inch a plebian?
'Tis silly; oh, it is ludicrous, in this plain republi-
can country, to attempt to borrow importance from
the nobility of a fictitious ancestry.
~'\TiPtiie alone, is true nobility"
True worth and " modest merit" never take airs
and assume dignity because of the pecuniary, or
intellectual, distinction of ancestry; and where
that spirit is manifested, it can with entire confi-
dence be regarded as evidence, conclusive that
their fathers belonged to the vulgar herd, and not
to the patrician order. This royal blood," conti~..
ued Lahm, addressing Leblond, "accounts for Al-
ban's despotism and petty tyranny over the young-
11

What a glorious woman was that Mary Stu-
art! Never has this terrestrial ball produced her
equal, always excepting that other Mary-the
blessed virgin, "-remarked A Iban, without seem-
lug to have noticed Lahrn.
Ali, but Judge," said Lahun, "you should bear
~n mind, in these days of Democracy, 'tis-~
"Worth makes the man, and want of it the follow."
*               *               a       *
~C Go! if your ancient but ignoble blood,
lies crept through scoundrels ever since the flood.
Go! and 11'etend your family is young!
Noi~ ewn your fathers have been fools so long I
What can ennoble sots, or slave.;, or cowards?
Alas! not all the blood of all the Siewarl&amp;."

THE UNJUST JUDGE.


163

er me inhers of the bar. It often shows it~e1f, though
f~r very far removed from the parent stock."
Alban was in a position, anything but pleasant,
yet his folly his weakness-had invoked it, and
hence he had to submit as best he could.
The Judge was a man of fair intellect, an d hi
early life, was pos~e~.sed of generous and manly
impulses; but in consequence of domestic vex a-
tion, and political disappointment, hi~ temper had
become soured, and it occasionally appeared to
carry a secret joy to his heart to be able to vent
his spleen upon some unfortunate individual com-
pletely in his power.~ lie never was known to at-
tack any person, unless he was protected by his
privilege as Attorney or Judge, from reply; and
his refined and elevated pleasures were drawn
from the pain he inflicted upon others, and the
more excruciating, the more extatic his enjoyment.
Lawyers, from some cause not yet understood
--probably from habit-have a practice of getting
their feet upon a table, stove, or any thing that
may chance to be in their neighborhood more ele-
vated than the seat upon which they are, at
the time, sitting. This pi~actice the Judge re-
garded as not strictly Chesterfieldian, and there-
fore, attempted to break up the habit, which afibrd-
edone of the most laughable, not to say ludicrous
scenes, we ever remember to have witnessed. It
reminded us of an old-fashioned Irish pedagogue,
hectoring his half frightened urchins. While dc~~

(

livening an opinion in an important case he would
stop and exclaim, "your feet off the table, sir!"
Down went the feet, but in the course of a few
minutes, some member who had been engaged du-
ring the previous reprimand, would throw himself
back into his chair, and up would go his feet upon
the counsel table; then, the Court would come
down upoh him, with " Your feet off the table, sir !"
He loved t-o indulge, when partially intoxicated, in
vital stabs at Private character, by dark insinua.
tions and meaning glances, but lacked the manli~
ness and courage for an open and direct attack~;
and thus was he engaged, frequently, in under-
fining, insidiously, the character and standing of
certain members of the bar.
his honor J)ossessed another imperfection, in
common with the rest of the human race. WhiIe
all men love that delicious aliment called flatters,
.1 udge Alban had this rascally virtue in a most pre-
eminent degree. It may be said, with truth, that
the entire Adamic race are fond of flattery, and that
the only difference between men consists in this,
that while you must serve it up exceedingly delicate
for some, you can pitch it down the throats~of oth-
ers with a barn-floor shovel; and to the latter class
belonged the Judge. The coarser the article the
more agreeable to his taste. This frailty of his
honor was the only avenue through which he could
be approached with any tolerable degree of
C~sC.
irk

'Ii

I ~32              TILE UNJUST JUDGJ~                                                         TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

162


164            THE UNJTJ~T 3UDGE.~                                           ThE UNJUST JUDGE.           165

"Of praise a mere glutton, lie swallowed what carn~,
And the puff of a dunce, he mistook it for fame,
Till his relish grew callous almost to disease;
Who peppered the highest was surest to please."
The acumen of the bar, in different portions of
the circuit, was not slow to discover this xveakness
of the Judge; and hence, it was not uncommon to
hear, on the trial of unimportant as well as the
most important causes, the grossest flattery flung
in the face of his honor, for the purpose of secur-
ing his favor and carrying a l)Oint. That which
would have called up a blush on the cheek of mod-
osty, xvas gulp~l down with greediness by Alhai~,
and regarded as more w~'ighty than poxverful logic,
consecutive argument, or oven indisputable author-
ities.
The Judge had, in evei~y county of his district,
one or two favorites; generally the more unscru-
pulous, who followed him in his midnight revelries,
took po~sessicn of his heart, controlled his judg-
ment and ruled his decisions.
Many 3vu1e5 bad they. and many modes oi ~atchi~ig,
Bat every tra') was selfishness, and evey bait was prajse.~
I
These he would permit to be out of order accord-
ing to their freaks and xvhirns, while the remain-
der of the bar were watched with Argus eyes, 311(1
their causes frequently sacrificed; and when com-
pelled to carry their causes into a higher court in
oi~der to obtain justice, Judge Alban would often
Thllow them and manifest all the anxiety to sustain

V

his ruling below, which usually characterizes young
advocates of zealous, sanguine temperaments, with
an eye single to success, without reference to jus-
tice or equity.
lie was occasionally told, by a friend, that the
unbridled passion to which he was sacrificing honor,
j)I'inciple, justice, and friends, would destroy him;
yet he chose darkness rather than light; probably
in imitation of his pretended ancestry, as Gold-
smith, in his history of Yng~laud, tells us that the
house of Stuarts were proverbial for their treach-
~ry to friends and patrons in exlrernities,

164

165


T11~ UNJtJS'r JUDGI~.                     167

CHAPTER XIY'.
Like mighty rivers, with resistless force
The passions rage, obstructed in their CQIIF$(C,
Swell to new heights, forbid'Jeu paths exploit,
And drown those virtues which they fed before. -
Have you heard the difficulty into which A. P.
Jewett has got himself?" said a sprightly young
lawyer to judge Jones as he drove up to the door
of a hotel, in one of the western villages of the
State.
"No," quickly replied Jones, "what difficulty,
pray, has he got into?"
"So, you have heard nothing about it?"
'~ No, certainly not," sai(l the Judge, impatient
to learn the character of Jewett's trouble.
Then," said his informant, "you had better go
immediately to the jail and learn the fa&amp;ts from
himself."
"Jewett in jail !" exclaimed Judge Jones.-~
"What, upon earth, does all this mean?"
Certainly, he is," replied the young man.
The Judge, without further delay, repaired to the
jail, and found Jewett in prison, and learned from
him the cause of his " capture and detention."
Jewett, for several weeks had been perambula-
ting the State, electioneering for Ju(lg~.Jo nes; and

in his travels, he caine in contact with those of the
Judge's opponents who were circulating against
him the charge of his intemperance, as well as
those who were repelling the charge; and among
the latter he found, or imagined he found it ne~
cessary to take an occasional dram; and being
unaccostomed to drinking, it produced the impres-
5Lon, where he was unknown, that he himself was
addicted to intemperance.
But, as the Judge and Jcwett are now together,
Jewett must be permitted to give his own account
of the matter..
"Why, What in heaven's name are you doing
here? enquired Jones.
Well, Judge," said Jewett, "I am truly glad
to see you, whether I have gotten into trouble re-
mains to be seen."
But,~' exclaimed the Judge, "how, and by what
possible means did they get you into prison?"
In passing through the State," said Jewett, "1
occasionally find it necessary to get up the impres-
sion that you are persecuted-that the temperance
organizations are bringing all their appliances to
bear upon you. rrhat they have singled you out
from among a host of candidates with a view of
striking down your character and prostrating you
forever. And for the purpose of showing my con-
tempt foi' the ethics of that school of politicians,
--for they are nothing more nor le~s than politi-
eians--J have indulged a little in the "critter;"

167


I~8            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                           TE UNJUST JUDGE.

169

and up North, some fourteen miles, while pretty
well "fuddled," Tom harris came along and
charged me with being drunk, and added that it.
was very appropriate for one drunken loafer to
electioneer for another. Thereupon, while under
the influence of a violent fit of passion. I immedi~
ately wrote him to meet me at such time and place,
and with such weapons as he might designate, and
I would chastise him for his insolence; and incred-
ible as it may appear, the cowardly puppy, instead
of accepting the challenge, immediately filed his
affidavit, and I was required to enter into a recogn-
izance of two thousand dollars, and in default, to
be committed to jail. Being wholly unacquainted
in this section of the State, I. of course, could not
give the required bail; hence, your honor finds me
in jail, not quite as calm as a May morning. had
I kept myself perfectly sober, as I ought to have
done, this terrible disgrace would not have hap-
pened to me."
"I have no distinct recollection of the precise
character of the challenge, as I was both angry
and intoxicated when I penned it; and at the time
of my arrest and commitment, I was still under
the influence of liquQr; so II was incapable of fully
knowit~g and appreciating what was transpiring
arour~d me; but I have no doubt it comes within.
the purview of the. statute; ar~d, from the cowardly
and malignat feeling Iharris has manifested, he
~i1l car~r this criminal proceeding a fearful length~

Can I escape conviction? I must confess I am
~rc~ tly alarmed, and can see no hope if ik shall
be prosecuted. I would be unwilling to derive
any benefit from the plea of. drunkenness, even if
it were available. I will never attempt to shield
myself from the consequences of one crime, by
taking shelter under another. I would as soon go
to the Penitentiary as urge my incapacity to com-
mit crime from (Irunkenness."
You have, really, got into serious trouble. It
is most unfortunate. I know that harris is a most
unprincipled villain," continued Judge Jones, "and
have frequently wondered how such a creature,
fit for treason, stratagem, and spoils," got in-
to the profession he so shamefully digraces. lie,
as well as the scamp who certified for him at the
time of his admission, ought to be throwif over the
bar for want of integrity and moral worth."
"Judge," said Jewett, " our wonder at the ad-
mission of such men into an honorable and liberal
profession, abates when we recollect that a Judas
was in the cabinet of the Saviour of the World ."
"While you ~vere narrating the facts of your
case," said Judge Jones, " I was trying to con-
ceive of a defence. and have been entirely unable
to satisfy myself with any you can interpose with
safety, and have finally determined the case must
never come to trial."
How is it to be avoided ?" inquired Jewett.
~' Every ma.m~ has his price," replied the Judgc~

168


170

THE UNJUST YUDGE.

harris must be bought oil'. rl llat challenge must
be destroyed, and the prosecution suppressed.
That is your only salvation."
"In making that arrangeine ut, Judge," said
.Tewett, "you must take into the account the fact,
that fortune has never smiled propitiously upon
your humble servant, except by furnishing him
with a very liberal share of baby responsibilities,
which in a negotiation, such as you speak of,
would not be 'a present help in time of need.'"
You must be cut loose from this dilemma, cost
what it may. And, of course, it would neither
be manly nor honest in me to let you pay the pen-
alty of my dereliction to duty. That I must be
permitted to settle " continued Jones, "entirely
myself as a pai't of the ~)unishment due on the 01(1
score of getting drunk on the hlainlin trial."
But, Judge," said Jewelt, "this expenditure
which you are now contemplating, would not, and
could no~ have been required, had I maintained
the character due my position on the temperance
question; and, therefore, I ought, at least, to be
allowed to divide the expense with you."
"Not at all, sir!" instantly replied Judge Jones.
" You are not to make any additional sacrifice---
no more immolations upon the altar of my folly.
Had I maintained the character~ due the position I
occupie(l, you would not have been called upon to
aeriflee principle, and could not upon my account,
have been placed in a condition where you were

I

T111~ UNJUST JUDO1~.

-171

liable to temj)tation or trouble. I will open a cor-
i~spondence; or rather, will cause a correspon-
(henCe to be opened with Harris in the course of a
few days, upon thjs subject, and in the meantime
I xviii allow a writ of Habeas Corpus, and have
you taken out of this inferiiai hole, and let to bail"
The Judge returned to th~ hotel, and after par-
taking of some refi~eshments di~ew up the applica-
tion for the allowance of the writ ; carried it to th~
jail and l~roeured vhe~signature of Jewett; allowed
the writ to issue ; and, in a very short period, Jew-
ett was before Judge Jones, on a writ of habeas
(orpus, and admitted to bail in the nominal sum
one hundred dollars, for which Jones became
personally responsible to the individual who bailed
Judge,~' enqui~'ed Jewett, " would it not have
been better to have put the bail bond at least one
thousand dollars? ~Uhe magistrate's bond was
two thousand, and I very much fear your enemies
will manufacture some capital against you out of
the fact, that you have Ict me to bail upon a mere
nominal sum. I would regret it exceedingly, if
twy used it to your disadvantage. If it happen
to occur to them, they will use it against you as
certainly, and to some p~~irpose, too, as that you
are a candidate."
Alt'. Jewett, I will be elected; of that I enter~
lain not a doubt. I have surveyed the entire field,
and dc feat is impossible. They will slander and


TUE UNJUST JUDGE.          173

172            TUE UNJUST JUDGE.

traduce me ; and, perhaps, impair my influence
and ability to be useful, but I will triumph; and
hence I disregard their malignity."
The object," continued the Judge, "in putting
your bond so low, I supposed was apparent to you.
In case we shall find ourselves unable to reach
harris, and should be compelled to forfeit your bond,
one hundred dollars is a little matter, and will
bankrupt nobody."
" That is all true, Ju(lge, but it is yet some time
before the election comes off; and with our tele-
graph and rail road facilities, this thing may be
heralded all over the State, and its effects may be
wonderful-far beyond what you anticipate. And
then, you are aware, appearances are often decep-
tive. You may be deceived as to your prospects;
but admitting that if the election were to go off,
to-day, your success would be certain, that is real-
ly no evidence that you would not be defeated,
three weeks hence, by many hundred votes.-
Changes often take place in the course of a very
few days, in a great, State like this, casting more
than three hundred thousand votes, varying the re-
sult most essentially."
"I cannot be deceived as to one fact; and that
is, that the sympathies of those who drink liquor,
both moderately and immoderately, are enlistedjn
my favor. Their name is legion. You will find,
sir, they will come up to the ballot box, from hill
top and valley, Hamlet and village, town and city

-all over the State, and deposit their votes for
me without distinction of party."
"You are more of a politician then I, yet, I fear
you are calculating without your host; and," con-
tinued Jewett, "the class of voters, upon which you
are relying, often constitute a kind of floating vote,
and frequently take a "stampede," and there is no
controlling' them
This very circumstance, if hand-billed over the
State, might have the effect to create the "stani-
pede," and defeat your election."
Our two friends had now reached the Judge's
I~OOifl.
Jones rang for the servant, and ordered two bran~
dy slings; then turning to Jewctt remarked that
he had made up his mind to break off entirely, and
never a~'a
~ in taste liquor after the campaign closed.
ITo ~vent on to say, he had been drinking for many
years, and during all that period he had not got
into any trouble, nor had he been sick, or met
with aiiy misfortune, that he could not, upon re-
hectioi, trace directly, or indirectly, to his indis-
cretions in the use of alcoholic drinks.
4       "1," said Jewett, "have had but little personal
experience in the use of liquors, but from that lit-
lIe, I am inclined to think its use more than a
Pandora's box-that it is the source of universal
evil."
"What a happy world it woilild be, if, by some

*


174             ~riw UNJUST JULGE.                                              TfIJS UNJUST JUDC~.            173

magic wand, spirituous liquor could be stricken oul
of existence."
"Intemperance, like the fearful siroc's blast.
spreads in its course, ruin, devastation, desolation.
and death. The brightest human interests, (Lfl(l
the fairest prospects of imperishable fame, are
nipped in the bud; and even the sanctity of our
hopes beyond the tomb are invaded by this fell
d istroycr."
Notwithstanding I have been guilty of very
many follies, tp use the mildest possible term for
it," said Jones, "while under the influence of liquor.
yet I cannot' say I now or ever loved the taste of
spirituous, or malt liquors, of any description
Nor can I say that the c~xhi1erating or exciting ef~
feds produced by it, so very pleasant to some, has
even been agreeable to me.
"My drinking has been on account of irresohi-
tion-want of decision-because I have never
learned to pronounce the little monosyllable "noi
The most important word in the English language.
and yet the most difficult to pronounce."
The brandy now before them, they drank with
apparent relish; and why? We have just heard
from Judge Jones that he had neither a natural nor
acquired fondness for it, and we are bound to sup-
pose the same of Jewettfor many reasons. Then,
wiiy this constant sip, sip-drink, drink, drink--
without inclination; without relish; with out pur~

pose--pi unin g the in into difficulty every clay-
occasionally involving the loss ef reputation, lib-
erty, and all that men usually hold dear on earth i~
And yet, they sip and drink, and drink and sip, un-
tilall is gone, and they are on the verge of utter
ruin. What inexplicable infa4;1atiou ! Wiat mad-
ness rules the hour!


THE UNJUST JUDGE.          177

CHAPTER xv.
Woman~ lovely wonmu! Nature madc thee
To temper man; we ha4 becu brutes without thee.
0/way.
"I have always maintained, Mr. Tompkins,
that moral suasion was the remedy, and the only
remedy, in this enlightened age, and country of
freedom of thought and action, for the correction of
certain vices and prominent among them, was
intemperance; "but, a change has come o'er the
spirit of my dream.'
"Ah, indeed! May I inquire, what has been the
character of that change? Well, I trust that it is
not about to spoil a good wife and make a poor
politician," replied Tompkins, to a dignified and
highly cultivated lady, about the meridian of life,
who had the honor of calling him her lord and
master.
No sir," said Mrs. Tompkins. "I shall at all
times endeavor to take care of these little responsi-
bilities of ours, and see that your rtieals are pre-
pared in order and in season, and that other house-
hold duties are properly attended to; and yet II
hope to have the privilege of expressing my oprn-
ions upon great moral questions involving the hap-

pnwSS, here and hereafter, of millions of human
souls."
"But, my dear, you have still left me in the dark,
as to the nature of the change of which you have
spoken. Yea must not assume the character of
a "strong minded woman" and aspire to the ele~
vated position of a leader in the affairs of State.
That would be thwarting nature, and when nature
is perverted, disorder ensues."
"You must not, my dear husband, expect to
evade the discussion of the temperance question,
hy attempting to get up an issue with me as to the
rights of women. I have no discussion with you
as to woman 's right, or ability to rule and govern
the State, at this time. If agreeable to you, upon
some future occasion, you can have my views upon
that subject."
"But for the 'change that has come o'er the
spirit of your dream,' upon the temperance ques-
tion. If that must be discussed, let us g'et at it im-
mediately. It will not, probably, occupy but a few
minutes ;" somewhat tartly responded Tompkins.
"To come directly to the point, then, Mr. Temp..
kins, I am no longer in favor of moral suasion for
the restraint of intemperance. Its mission and
purpose has been fulfilled. It has spent its force,
and it has done much. To refuse to go further is
to retrograde in this great moral. enterprise. It is

177


TILE UNJUST JUDGE.

178            TIlE UNJUST JIJDGE.

not in the nature of reformations to be stationary.
I am, therefore, in favor of legal suasion. And,
by the time legal suasion has spent - its force and
closed its mission, the greatest emissary his satanic
majesty ever commissioned and sent forth to ruin
and destroy, will have breathed his expiring groan."
Why, that is quite a speech," said Tompkins.
Well, my dear, you "make quite a speech,"
and II will make another. I have enlisted for life
in this cause," replied Mrs. Tompkins.
"You reason correctly from your pi'omises, but
are they correct? Is it true that moral suasion
has spent its force?"
"I aver, most solemnly, that I believe it has spent
all the force it possessed in shaping the views and
sentimentS of that Portion of society, willing to
listen to the voice of reason, which I am happy to
say, constitutes a large and decided majority in
this, and indeed, in all other countries where wis-
dom and virtue' are predominant among thc
masses. That portion of our citizens who are
deaf to the voice of reason, and who from avarice,
~r some baser passion, are unwilling to desist from
their traffic in spirituous liquors, notwithstanding
the moral deadi that follows as connectedly as ef-
fect follows cause; must be restrained by the strong
~ 1
arm of the law. Treat such men as enemies of
the public p~ace and welfare. Public policy re~
quires it. The good of community requires it.-

The welfare and happiness~temporal and eter-
nal-of unborn millions demand it.
"So, there, Mr. Tompkins, is another speech
for you; and as you have not answered the first,
if you decline answering- this also, I will make
still another."
"May I inquire, when you experienced this
change, my dear?" said Tompkins, with more
sane- froid, than suited the pride of his better part.
"I first began to view this subject in the light
in which I now look at it, some ten days since,
when I happened to be at our neighbor Dudley's,
across the way. lie had carried every thing out
of the house that would purchase a glass of liquor
for him; and finally, just before I dropped in, he
had taken a small pocket-Bible lie had presented
her before she wore his dishonorable name, and
old it to the grocery~keeper for two shillings worth
 liquor, and was then lying in the back yard,
under a shed, so drunk that he could neither sit nor
~4and; and that at the cost of the only Thble in the
house; while poor Mrs. Dudley was overwhelmed
~ grief at the loss of it. What a dark l~icture is
spread out before her; and, how slight the hope that
her condition will assume a more favorable phase!
"Now, please tell me," continued Mrs. Tomp-
kins, "how long you might preach faith and re~
entrance to two such degraded specimens of hu-
manity, as Dudley and the wretch to whom h~
sold the Bible."

I179

4

178


TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.           181

ISO             TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

"I will concede," said Tompkins~ "that preaching,
in the case you put, would be a little like casting
p earls before ~uneE
"How are they to be reached? There are hut
two ways~pCr5Ua5iO~~ and law-by which they can
be reached; if the former is not effectual, ~esort
must be had to the latter. humanity, to say noth-
ing of Christianity, forbids that one citizen should
be permitted to murder another; slowly, it is true,
but certainlY."
lie does it with the consent of the injured man,"
said Tompkifl5~ in an und~~ and rather subdued
tone.
"With the consent of the injured, cli? The
man who takes advantage of the minor, or an in-
sane person~ invariably does it with the consent of
the injured yet the law, I believe, steps in and
says, these injured individuals are incapable of
giving their consent, and compels the dishonest
man to disgorge his ill-gotten gain. The man who
meets you upon the highway, and with a pistol at
your breast, demands your money, gets it with
your consent. You choose between two evils and
surrender the money in preference to surrendering
your life. You will insist that in the last case
put, the man was under duress. Who, we inquire,
is more effectually under duress, than the unfortu-
nate man who is a slave to his passions-ifflPri5
oned by a depraved and vitiated appetite? lie
as much entitled to the protection of the law as

the minor, the lunatic, or the man met upon the
I ugh way.
"Now do tell me whether the country is not full
of such cases? Anti whether they are not as far
beyond the reach of public opinion, as the men
who will steal or rob ? In either case, you can
alone reach them by heavy penal enactments.".
"Well, that makes four speeches, and if I (10
not soon make one, you will imagine they are un-
answerable. What have you to say to the hun-
dreds and hundreds of men, in different parts of
the State, wl~o have all they ~OSSC55 in the world,
invested in liquors? Must they pour out their sub-
stance, and be reduced to penury and want ?"
"There is this Iexv to be taken of that state of
hings. The men who invest their means in the
business of dealing in liquors, are in no worse
condition than the man who throws a dam ~eross
a stream of water, below which he constructs a val-
uable mill and m achinery-prodiices stagnation,
and thereby generates malaria, causing disease
and death. In the latter case, the strong arm of
the law would abate the i~uisance, without refer-
ence to the amount invested in the erection of the
~Ai~t~cture and machinery ; or the consequences to
the foolish individual who had expended his all in its
construction.
"If you possess sufllcieut acumen to draw a dis-.
tiuction betweemi these two different orders Of nui~
sauces, and tell me why one should be abated and

4.

8

180

I


ThE UNJUST JUDGE.          183

1$2            TE UNJUST JUDGE.

the other tolerated, I will yield the point and an~~
noy you no further upon the subject. For then I
shall distrust my powers of conception and ability
to think, and console myself with the reflection that
I may be all wrong.
"Now, Edwin, do promise me, that when you
return to your seat in the Senate, you will advocate
and defend the "Maine Law," with all the power
you possess; and I will venture the prediction you
will live to thank God that you took a bold and
fearless stand for virtue and temperance."
"Mary, 'almost thou persuadest rue to be a
Christian.' But," continued Ed win Tompkins, "(10
you recollect the very remarkable language of a
distinguished. General, who, at the head of a vic-
torious army, was marching upon his native city,
when met by his wife and mother, who implored
him to sayc the effusion of blood ?"
Oh, yes," said Mrs. Tompkins. "I recollect he
said to his mother, she had saved Rome but sacri-
ficed her son. But you do not wish to be under-
stood as intimating that your advocacy of the
'Maine law' would imi)air your influence as a cit-
izen or politician?"
"It would destroy my political prospects for all
lime to come," said Tompkins.
"If to be honest--to follow the dictates of a ma-
tured judgment-the approval of an enlightened
conscience; to do the very thing for which you
were elected-to look after and promote the pub-

I

V

lie interest; if to do all this is to destroy your po~
litical hopes; and if, to fling conscience to the
winds-disregard public welfare, except so far as
it tends to your own advancement, is to enhance
your political prospects a~d make you a favorite
with the people; can you, as an honest man and
~u good citizen, hesitate as to your course?
Tis phrase absurd to call a villain ~reat
Who wickedly is wisc, or madly brave;
Is but the more a fool, the more a knave.
Who noble ends by noble means obtains,
Or failing, smiles in exile or in chains;
Like good Aurelius, let him reign or bleed
Like Socrates, that man is great indeed."
" Edwin, can you, whom I have ever regarded
as a paragon of every excellence, turn your back
upon duty, which ought to be paramount in all
conditions in life? I could not have been made
to believe that there was, in your composition, one
particle of the dross of selfishness; and would
have repelled it as a base slander, had you been
1~
charged with it; and yet, rn~i a ear, you must in-
dulge me while I say, to be deterred from the dis-
charge of a known duty through fear of invoking
the displeasure of the rabble, is the very sublimate
of the most scored selfishness. But, with all due
deference to your betterjudgtnent, political saga city *
and foresight; let me add, tITh moral sun is gild~
ing the eastern horizon, soon to be in the ascend-
ant-soon to wilt, wither, scorch-and, in its on-
ward and upward progress, to consume and burn

183

182


184             THE UNJIJSW JUDGE.                                             THE UNJUST JUDGE.

185

up every opposing obstacle. Public sentiment, at
this very moment, is undergoing a fermenta-
tion, such as has not been witnessed since the
dawn of civilization. The light, extraneous sub-
stances will be thrown oW while the heavier will
be deposited in the shape of sediment, and we
shall have that, which will remain, to wit: truth
for public s~itiment.
In this noon of the nineteenth century, it can-
not be that a man will make himself odious to the
people by honestly, and faithfully discharging his
duty to himself, his constituents, and to society
generally.
"But if this deplorable state of society does ex-
ist, it only shows the greater importance and neces-
sity of your throwing yourself, with the entire
weight of your influence and character, into the
opposite scale with the view of creating' a more
healthy public sentiment.
"Good men must be found in fh~ vanguard, in
the progress and march of great moral reforina-
tions. It cannot be expected tbat bad men, when
their interest is at war with reform, should be. fo and
occupying prominent positions in the work of
bringing about those reforms."
"Bat," interrupted Tompkins, "what account
am I to render to this grocei~y-keeper who bought
the bible of Dudley, and scores of other kindred
spirits, who have hitherto been among my ~warmest
political friends; and in every time of need, would

I,

conic to my assistance? Would it not be ingrati-
tude, upon my part, to espouse the Maine Law?
Ingratitude is a black offence; and of so heinous
a character is it, that anciently, and that by bar-
barians, too, it was ranked among, and punished
as, a capital crime.
"And in addition to all that; they would turn
upon me with the fiereness of a bear in defence of
her cabs."
"They ought not to become your enemies be-
cause you tell them the truth. A great and good
man has said, 'our best friends are those who tell
us our faults, and teach us how to correct them."'
"Yes," interrupted Tompkins, " but these fellows
are not philosophers."
Admitted," immediately replied Mrs. Tompkins;
"but are they likely to become philos~phcrs, while
you, and others laying claims to philosophy, con-
tiflLlC to cater to their follies and vices ?"
"Bat, should they turn upon you, with all the fury
you anticipate, the better portion of community
will immediately come to your relief, and more
than compensate for your loss."
"I nmst confess," said Tompkins, "you possess
more knowledge of humaii nature than I had sup-
posed; and, while I have been observing mcii
closely, you have not been indifferent to what was
transpiring around you. Yet I am unwilling, at
this time, to espouse the "Maine Law.
"I am sorry," said Mrs. Tompkins, "you c~uuoV

184

I
I


I $G            TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                               THE UNJUST JUDGE.             187

realize that duty requires you to act fearlessly on
this question.
"I see the right, and approve it too;
Condemn the wrong, but yet the wrong pucsue''-
is not the -position for a man of your stamp to oc-
cupy; and yet, there is where you stand."
Tompkins broke in by remarking, that he had
been thinking vi pon the subject of temperance, and
approved of the movement; but could scarcely
think the time for action, in that directionliad yet
arrived ; that it would come, and come soon, lie
entertained no doubt.
"No my dear, this 'is the accepted time; this is
the day of salvation.' It is always right, to do
right; and the present and not a future period, is
the time to do right:
What conscience dictates to be done,
Or warns me not to do;
This, teach me more than hell to shnn~-
That, more than heaven pur~uc.''
Do let me urge you to be true to yourself, and
those with whom you are connected in the various
relations of life.
What, I inquire, induces you to seek high po-
litical position? It is not that your name may be,
occasionally, favourably mentioned in the public
prints, or for other le~ss potent reasons; but that
the public may have the benefit of your experi-
ence, your xvisdom, and knowledge. In short, you
ascend ambition's ladder in order that your elevated

and commanding position may enable you to do
good.' Then, if you are not on virtue's side, you
must be upon the side of vice. 'You cannot serve
God and mammon; and in the event of an effort
to occupy that position you xviii not have attain-
ed the object of your ambition.~~
At this moment, the. mail-boy entered and handed
Tompkins a package of letter~, one of which he
broke open, and read as follows:

"EDwIN TOMPKINS, Esc~.:
~w :-Though I have not the pleasure of a
personal acquaintance with you, I have taken the
liberty of addressing you, as ~vell as a few of the
more prominent of your brethren of the State
Senate, upon a subject involving more of my in-
terest than all others, saving and excepting my
salvation beyond the grave.
"Could I invoke the aid of yourself, and four or
five other Senators to whom I have written, iii fa-
vor of the 'Maine Law,' it would, pass the Senate
and, xvith the prestige of its passage in, that body
its fate in the House, cannot be doubtful-it would
then immediately, become the law of the land.
What an era in the history of our State
"I am impelled to take this step, by the hope that
it niay be the means of saving my husband and
two sons, from the ya\vning gulf, upon the margin
of which they are now standing, apparently await-
ing your action upon this momentous question.

187

186

'Vt
4
ii
4
Ti
VI
I
~ii
IV~
I


188           THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                       THE UNJUST JUDGE.          189

Saved, if you but stretch forth your band; but
lost-forever lost to themselves, to me, to society
-and, oh! eternally lost beyond this vale of tears,
jf you but withhold that helping hand!
Your granting my request will not impoverish
you, while it will enrich thousands upon thousands,
many of whom may live to laud your praises, long
after the eloquent voice that saved them i~ hushed
in death.
"My dear husband and sons, from the force of
a long and continuous habit, arc so wedded to
their cups they have lost all control over their
wills, when exposed to temptation ; and my only
hope now, is to place theni beyond the reach of
temptation, through the enactment of the Maine
Law. if there was no liquor to hire them from
the path of virtue, peace and i)lenty would again
shed their benign influence around our domestic
hearth.
" As you love the joy and comfort of your own
home-as you love your wife and children-as you
love your character and that of your family-as
you value all you hold dear-as you estimate the
glory in store for those who love and serve God,
throw yourself into the breach and save the joy
and comfort of my home; save my lost and ruined
husband and children. Save their character, and
save, oh! save them from the deep perdition that

awaits the xvine-bibber and the drunkard, after they
shall have exchanged worlds.
"A few more fleeting summers will pass over
your head, and you; my husband and children; all
interested in the passage of this bill, will stand to-
gether before the bar of the great "Judge of the
quick' and the dead." It xviii then matter not to
you, whether you had the approval or disapproval
of the millions. It will then 1)C a matter of littlQ
onsequeiicc whether you were in power, or out of
it, on earth. But it will matter much to you, then,
whether you-while on earth-was on the side of
virtue, and contributed your utmost influence in
enecking the progress of vice. Should you be so
happy as to meet a few applied souls around the
Throne, whom you had snatched from wretched-
ness and woe, believe me-' at that awful hour
when yorl shall await the last inevitable verdict,
the eye of your hope will not be the less bright,
imr the agony of your ordeal the more acute, be-
cause you shall have been instrumental in bruis-
ing the head of' the serj)ent intemperance, and
crushing and crumbling, forever, the altar of its
idolatry.'
"Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, and
their works do follow them."
"What more ought I to say? What more can
I say?
"The Maine Law will pass, but it may come too
late to bring peace and comfort to my home."

188

ii

189

F
U
I
ii4
II
I,
III,


190 .

THE UNJUST JUDGE

"Let me, in closing, again urge you, by all that
is high on earth or holy in heaven, earnestly to ad-
vocate this law. If this traffic is stopped, drunken-
ness must stop from necessity, and misery, wretch-
edness, and crime, lessen from the same cause.
Enlist in it, and you have the, prayers of thou-
sands, while the curses of the drunkard will recoil
in blessings upon his own head.
I am, my dear sir,
Very truly,
JANE P. BELL."
While reading the above letter, Tompkins se-
cretly determined to use all honorable means in
his power to procure the passage of the law, and
let consequences take care of themselves.
After he had read the letter, he handed it to his
wife, who perused it attentively; and, while fold~
ing it, she looked her husband imploringly in the
face, and said, ~Mr. Tompkins, 'you will support
the Temperance bill, won't you?"
Tompkins admired the disinterested devotion
his wife was giving this benevolent measure. She
had actually changed his views upon this impor-
tant subject; for which he had the manliness to
give her the credit.
"Mary," said Tompkins," I have no doubt I can
effect the passage of the Maine Liquor Law
through the Senate. Different Senators are in
doubt as to how they ought to vote upon this bill,
and I have been sati~fled I corild control their votes,

V

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

191

which I had fully determined to do against the
incas ure.
"If the bill shall be passed, the State will be
indebted to you," said Tompkins, "for one of the
most important measures introduced for many
years, though you may never, receive the credit
due you. I shall never fail, on all proper occa-
sions, to mention to whom I am indebted for my
change of sentiment."
"God be praised !" exclaimed Mrs. Tompkins, as
the big tears fell thick and fast from her large, be-
nevolent blue eyes.

I
'4
I1~
I,
U;;
F;
p
4
4'
b
I
It
J
ii


CHAPTER XVI.
Tis greatly wise to talk with our past hours,
And ask them what report they've l)orfle to heaven,
And how they might have borne more welcome news.
iOl~flq,
Sibley had now nearly finished the period fur
which he was consigned to prison, when, as soon
as the outer door of the jail xvas opened, in the
morning, one of his boys appeared at the door of
his cell, and informed him that his little son which
his brutality had exposed to the inclemency of the
weather, was a corpse~
Stung by remorse, and lashed by a guilty con-
science, he raved for several successive hours like
a maniac. Alternately praying God for mercy,
and imprecating the vengeance of heaven upon
the jailor, for not throwing open the door of the
prison and allowing him to attend his child's funeral.
He would prostrate himself upon the prison' floor,
and beseech the man in "brief authority," to let
him out, if but for two hours; and would pledge
himself, by all that was sacred, to return to his
confinement as soon as he had performed this last
solemn duty to his departed infant. When all
other arguments had failed, he proposed serving
him for the period of five years, in the most menial

capacity, if he would allow him to follow the re-
mains of his child to its grave.
But the Jailor, who had become callous-hearted,5
~nd lost to the better feelings of our nature, from
habitual intemperance, remained inexorable; and
poor Sibley, during the afternoon, was doomed to
the mortification of seeing, through his iron-grated
window, the funeral procession pass his prison.
Sibley spent the few remaining days in prison,
reviewing his past life; and frequently did differ-
~nt members of his family, on visiting him, find
him bathed in tears.
"Acquaint thee with thyself, 0 man! so shalt thou b~ humble,
Ilie hard, hot desert of thy heart shall blossom with the lilly and the
rose
Flie frozen cliffs of pride shall melt as an iceberg in the tropics
The bitter fountains of self -seekiug, be sweeter than the waters of the
Nile."
From the retrospect, he discovered the indiscretion
and the weakness that led him into folly, dissipa-
tion and crime, and resolved with all the firmness
and resolution he had left, to avoid, in the future,
folly and dissipation by guarding against their pio-
neer, indiscretion.
As soon as his liberty was restoi~ed, he returned
to his family, believing himself ~ changed man,
and was so regarded by his friends and neighbors;
and after the lapse of a few days opened an office,
and vigorously entered upon the duties of his pro-
fession. Business began to flow in upon him, and
he found men of influence and position in society
13

p
~ I
I;
'F
4 44
V
14
I

V
44

TIlE UNJUST JUDGES

193


TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

ThE UNJUST JUDGE.

among his patrons and friends-men who, a few
brief weeks previously, would not, upon credit,
have sold him a pound of coffee, were now willing
ing to endorse for him to the amount of hun-
dreds of dollars, so great was their confidence
in the permanency of his reformation. lie pur-
chased a lot of ground, and erected upon it a com-
fortable little home for his family. Again he was
respectable ami happy. Peace and plenty were
once more inmates of that recently desolate house.
Some two months after Sibley's reformation, a
term of the Supreme Court was holden in his vil-
lage, and a number of young men were admitted
to the bar; and, as was the custom, they gave " a
bail supper," to whieh Sibley was honored with an
invitation.
After some hesitancy, and much urgency upon
the part of his wife, he consented and attended
the supper.
Sibley found the Court, the officers of ~he Court,
and his old friends and associates at the bar, ready
to greet him with the warmth of renewed friend-
ship.
Supper being over, any quantity of bottles was
introduced, containing e very variety and descrip -
tion of liquors that modern invention has been
able to produce.
Judge Alban, presiding, drank a toast, which,
for the credit of the bench, we would gladly sup-
press; but, as we profess to be accurate in our nar-

ration of the facts, necessity compels us to give it
as nearly as we can recollect, which is as follows:
"The improvement in liquors in this age of ad-
vanceinent, has kept pace with the discoveries in
steam and electricity; and palsied be the arm that
would stay their onward progress. Blessed be the
man who invented eating and drinking'"
Three cheevs for Judge Alban were called for
and given with deafening applause.
Sibley, being the eldest member of the bar pres-
ent, was next called upon for a toast. lie rose~
and with great calmness and deliberation took up
his glass; aiid from a mug of sparkling cold water,
that stood near, filled it to the brim, and drank a~
follows:
"Pure cold water; the only beverage fit for man
or beast; and he who advocates any other, must
sink in the estimation of virtuous men and women,
while the curses of heaven will ~rest upon him and
his posterity."
For several seconds, after offering the above
sentiment, Sibley stood pale and motionless, while
th~ house was as silent as the chamber of death.
At length Sibley broke the stillness of the occasion
in the following strain:
"Mr. PRESJDENT-~--I know I will not in. vain ask
the indulgence of my friends present, for a few
moments, while I briefly give my re~son~ for offer-
ing this sentiment,"

194

195

F
I
I
Ii
F
F
F
F
p
I.
Iv
p
V


TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.          197

196              TILE UNJUST JUDGE.

Mr. Sibley," quickly replied Alban, *" this is
not a Temperance meeting. You are out of order
and cannot proceed."
Leblond rose and. said, he felt inclined to go any
reasonable length, by way of indulging his brother
Sibley, but this was no occasion for a temperance
lecture ; and, therefore, hoped he would desist fr )ifl
fu~ tiler trespassing up on their patience.
Some gentleman, present, moved that Sibley be
permitted to speak to the sentiment he had ofired;
and added that if Mi'. Sibley's remarks shonid
causC cold chills to run over the backs of Of
our anti-tcm~peranCC friends, tliC UCIflO(I V XV 85 at
hand.
The motion was put, and after considerable p(~t-
ttioging P~ al7id Coil, ealTied, and Sibley was al-
lowed to voceedl, though not without frequent in-
teITUPtIOfl.
"Mu. PuEsIDENT :-I have been associated with
many of you, for move than a quarter of a cen-
tury. You have known mc in ,~)roSpCPit 811(1 lB
adversity. What I might have been, had I coti-
tinned sober and upright, is not for mc to say.
But this fl7lLlCh I will say-HO man ever entered LII)-
on a professional career with brighter prospects
than yo rim' unworthy speaker. What would have-
what could have blighted those .prospects, but this
"good man's failing," as it is often termed?
"You have seeP me respected. You have seeti
me in ailluence. You have seen my family corn-

portable uiid happy. You have seen me capable
of defending the invaded rights of myseW and
those dependent upon me. You have seen rue
evel' i'e~dy to engage in public and other laudable
enterprises. I on have seen me educating my
children and fitting them for usefulness in society.
You have seen inc the zealous advocate of a high-
toned, intellectual and moral culture. You have
seen me the friend and patron of religious and
charitable institutions. You have seen a good
citizen, an obliging neiglib our, a law-abiding man,
a fIlial son, a kind husband, and an indulgent
father. All this I can say without boasting; and
no man who has known me, intimately, will gain-
say what I have said.
But I attended, early in my professional career,
meetings of a similar character to this ; and the.
result was, I contracted a relish, a fondness for
strong drinks which " grew with my growth antI
strengthened with my strength," and I became a
confirmed inebriate; since which you have seen me
destitute of charackr. You have seen me in
l)overty; you have seen my family dependent up-
on the charities of a cold and iron-hearted world.
You have seen me incapable of protecting their
rights oi' my own. You have seen me alike tin-
willing and unable to participate in the public en-
terprises of the day. You have seen me imeglec-
ting the education of my children; allowing them
to grow up in ignorance and vice. You have seen

t
2


THE UNJUST JUDGE.         199

198           THE UNJUST JUDGE.

me wallowing in the gutter, a miserable excres~
sence of humanity. You have seen me permitting
my aged and infirm parents to die the inmates of
an alms house. You have seen my wife and chil-
dren in penury and want. You have seen me
cruelly and brutally, beating them. You have
seen me a degraded criminal. You have seen me,
virtually, the murderer of my offspring, before it
was capable of recognizing the source from which
the cruelty came. You have seen me, while shut
up in a felon's prison, refused the poor privilege
of attending my child's funeral.
"These are but a few of the evils and misfor-
tunes that have followed in tile train of my diss
pation and drunkenness.
"For a few months I have been a sober man
and, through the confidence and 'friendship of a
few individuals who have felt, and nianifested, a
deep interest in my welfare, I have again been
thrown into a practice in my profession which is af-
fording me a comfortable living. Ought I, can I,
betray that confidence, and forfeit that friendship?
"It is claimed for the American bar, that no
class of men on earth, possess more noble, gener-
ous, and manly impulses; that none are more
ready to aid suffering humanity. This i~ no flc-~
tion, but sober fact. I am your brother-your
frail and erring brother-wedded to my cups by as
strong ties as depraved humanity can be linked to

198

vice. Will you not in the magnanimity of your
nature, come to my aid?"
"We will !" exclaimed some of the younger
members.
He continued: "If I were upon the top of a
l)urning house the roof of which was tottering,
while I was in imminent danger of being plunged
into the raging element beloxv, is there a man be-
fore me who would not put forth super-human ef-
forts to save me from that terrible death? What
intense excitement, verging upon madness, would
prevail! What running to and fro! what sJ~rieks!
what exclamations ! What risks would courage
incur to snatch me from the flames ? And yet, my
brethren, I occupy a position more critical more
perilous than the one I have attempted to describe.
If you could know, as you cannot for the reason that
language is incapable of describing, the self-denial
I have practiced this evening, you would come in
a high state of excitement, to my rescue. I feel
that, for a series of years, a cable has been around
my neck, dragging me, irresistibly, down-that
by a herculean effort, the chain has been severed.
My situation could not be more critical, if it stood
upon the top of a powder magazine with my pock-
ets full of missiles, attempting' to light off a score
or more of men below, who were resolved to ap-
ply the match. If applied, my fate is fixed. If I
drink but a dram, the cable is again around me,
~-4he match is applied~ and I am a ruined man,


~00            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                           TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.         201

Have I a true friend who would throw this cable
around me, or apply this match? Would your
Honor, Mr. President, do it? Your Honor, not
long since, remarked, under circumstances, to my-'
self very trying-exceedingly mortifying-' Sibley,
you are a man of talents, and ought to be a man
of sense.' Now, will you not aid me in attempting
to be 'a man of ~ense?'"
Alban, by this time, was too drunk to appreciate
the appeal or even understand the hit.
"A man," continued Sibley, "under the infin-
ence of this vice, is like homer's giant quaffing
from the goblet of Ulysses, cr~ ing 'more, give me
more!' and still never satisfied.
"1 appeal to you, then, as men-as members of
the bar-a~ my neighbors-as my personal friends,
to aid me in resisting this fcarful ruin; this fell
destroyer. Shall I appeal in vain ?"
We will help you ; we will do any thing' in our
power for you ;" caine fi'om every paut of the
house.
"'Will you give up your cups and sign the tem-
perance pledge ?" said Sibley.
"We will! We are ready to help you K Bring
on your pledge
Sibley drew from his pocket a temperance pledge
which read as follows:
"NYc, the undersigned members of the bar, and
officers of Court, bind ourselves never to drink, or
i~l any way use, except fo~ medicinal, or phar'ina~-

ceutical purposes, either malt or alcoholic drinks;
and use all honorable means in our power to pro-
cui'e the passage of the Maine Liquor law."
To the above pledge, Sibley signed his name,
and every man present but. Alban, the SheriW the
Prosecutor, and Leblond.
After considerable altercation, between Barber,
Leblond, Alban, and several others, the meeting
J)I'okc up in what was very nearly allied to a row;
and Sibley returned, that night, to his humble
home, as happy as any man has been this side
Jor(lan since the fall.

!
e
a
e


THE UNJtYST JUDGE.          203

CHAPTER XVII.
When impious mew bear sway,
The post of honor is a private StatiOll.--Add~SOu.
in a large and splendidly furnished room, at one
of the most fashionable hotels in the city of ~,
a few days after the election, might have been
seen Judge Jones, Leblond, Judge Alb an, and Jew-
ett, with numerous other distinguished politicians
of the State, with a table in their midst, covered
with all kinds of hiquoim
"Jones," said Leblond, "you must either regard
me as a prophet, or a man of great political sa-
gacity; and I believe I should prefer the latter. I
told you, you remember, that the hanging matter,
up North, if adroitly managed, would elect you
and, now let me add, that alone saved you4"
"Well," replied Jones, "Mr. Leblond, you do
not, in that opiniQn, pay a very high compliment
to the virtue of the people."
"That may be true," said Leblond; "yet, such
is the fact. And neither you nor myself ought to
quarrel with those imperfections of our nature
xvhich we have seized upon, pressed into our ranks,
and from which we have gained such sig~ial ad-
vantage."

"Leblond," replied Judge Jones, "I do not think
it very creditable, to either of u~,to have it said
that the better portion of our fellow citizens were
against us in the contest, and that we were sup-
ported by the less respectable and virtuous because
xx' e were kindred spirits."
Leblond remarked that he felt free to acknowb
edge the deep debt of gratitude he was under to
the bottle, and its influence for his election; and
that it was a part of his nature never to abandon
his friends. He had nothing further to say as to
the influences that brought about the Judge's elec-
tion; seeing that he took it in high dudgeon.
I," said the Judge, " acknowledged no indebt-
edness to the bottle, and have no league with vice."
Yes," said Leblond, "you are now out of the
woods, you can afford to be saintly."
Leblond, I am at all times just what I appear
to be. My enemies, though they have followed
me with the ferocity of blood-hounds, have, never
dared charge me with dissimulation or hypocrisy.
'hypocrisy is the necessary burden of villainy.'"
"Judge Jones, do you intimate that I am a vib
lain, sir ?" said Leblouid, with much feeling.
"By no means," answered Jones. I merely re-
pelled the charge of hypocrisy, and called it vil-
lainy. And I am wholly unable to see by what
rule of construction you could infer a charge of
villainy against you; and I am quite as unable to
account for your sensitiveness upon this subject.

s
&amp;


04           rm&amp; VNJUST JUDGt                                             THE UNJUST JUDGE.         ~05

It does now occur to me, however, that you were
charged with professing friendship, in one part of
your District, to temperance; while in another,
you were a rabid anti-temperance man."
"You are, doubtless, unable to see many things
now that you do not need votes, that yOu could
have clearly discerned before the election. The
man in whose composition demagogisni is not a
proinii~ ent ingredient, is ide ntic ally the s a inc ma ii
after, that he was before his election."
"That rule Mr. Leblond, would make demagogues
of a vast majority of those who have been before
the public, ai~d probably include your Honor an(l
myself. But there is so much of human nature in
being a little more affal)le, a little more disposed
to please, and a little less inclined to take um-
brage before, than after the contest. A man ought
not to be charged with dissimulation and dema-
gogism unless there is a clear and marked de-
parture from integrity, and fair, manly conduct.
But, a truce to your restless thQughts; I am glad
you have beaten Barber, and hope' you will dis-
tinguish yourself among the Solons at the Capitol.
Let us drink. This rum is a new drink to me. Is
it good, Leblond?"
"I have not tried it, Judge," said Leblond. It
will take but a short time to test its qualities."
"Jew ett," said Jones, after partaking very bouiv
tifully of the new drink, "that rum is a superb ar-
ticle. Try a little of it. The election is now over,

and we are elected all round; therefore, we can
eat, (Irilik, and be merry" -
" For 'to-morrow we die !' " exclaimed Jewett.
"I hope not," replied Jones. " So sudden an
exit as that would lcave me deeply in your debt
~ p~ favors, all of which I trust I shall live long
enough to cancel."
Get inc out of this confounded dilemma with
Tom IJarris, and you will expunge them all with
one fell swoop," said Jewett.
~,rrl~at is a facts" said Jones ; that thing nmst be
attended to })roIflptly. I hope, Mr. Jewett, you
will borrow no trouble from that source.
"1 seldom borrow trouble, Judge," replied Jew-
efl. "The real ills of life are sufficiently afflictive,
without drawing upon our imaginations for ideal
()IW 5."
That is ti~ue," sai(l Jones, as a thoug'htfnl shade
stoic over his countenance ; and added: "how
many, oh ! how vei~y many of the actual evils of
life do we invite, and even woo '~ "
Ay, and win," quickly aided Jewett.
As true as the book of Cenisis," said Jones.
If I had been true to the impulses of my better
nature, this Tom Harris difficulty would never
have occurred."
"If I had been true to my professions, Judge,"
said Jewett, "ii could not have happened."
"The difference, then, between us, is this: that
while you refused to obey good impulses, which


THE UNJUST JUDGE.         207

206           THE UMUST JUDGE.

admit is always dangerous, I 'knew my duty, but
did it not,' and deserve to 'be beaten with many
stripes.'"
The question now~ Judge,-and you know we
lawyers love to stick to the point-is not who is the
greater transgressor, you or I; but how shall I get
freed from this difficulty? harris is a malicious
dog-a desperate fellow; and, as Pope says,
More fell than the tigers of the Lybian Plane.',,
"My dear fellow give yourself no further unea-
siness about this matter, I will attend to it," sai(i
Jones.
" ' The wages of sin is death,' " said Leblond,
who had been attentively regarding Jewett and
Judge Jones.
"Jewett fancied he saw no little acrimony in
Leblond's manner, immediately replied:
"Tell me, what shall thy wages be ?" And ad..
ded, "we can quote Scripture, too, Mr. Leblond."
Jones, seeing the turn it was likely to take-Le-.
blond being impetuous-and feeling desirous to
change the subject again, reinin~kd J~wett that he
had not partaken of the rum.
Jewett took up the bottle, and after looking at
it a moment, repeated from Milton:
"Of man's first disobedience and the fruit
Of that forbidden tree, whose mortal taste,
Brought death into the world; and all our woe."
"When you are among wolves you must howl,"
said Leblond,

I

"Most certainly," replied Jewett, and quaffed
his glass.
Judge Jones rose, and stepped forward to .the
table, took a glass, and said, "Come gentlemen,
come; let us forget our troubles. They are un-
bidden guests at this time. Come, Jewett, partake
of a little more of this nectar, this drink of the gods,
and dream of diadems, and 'ribbons red and blue."
" A diadem of beauty?"
rather quisically enquired Leblond.
"The election is now over," said Jo~ies; "and
the ladies, I suppose, have entered the heart, or
head-and perhaps both-of Mr. Leblond, and de-
throned politics ; and you must not be astonished
if you find him, for the next six months, practicing
in Cupid's court."
"Come, gentlemen; don't be backward. Come
all, and drink."
All, ace ordin~l~?, having gathered around the ta-
ble, and drank first of one description of the "nec-
tar," and then another, until they were qualified
to judge of the merits of each.
"Now," said Judge Jones, "about this Harris
matter. XYh4 shall we do? The bond for Jew.
ett's appearance at Court, is only one hundred dol-
lars, but it must not be forfeited. We must man-.
age to buy Harris off! Suppose," continued Jones)
"I write to Harris, and make a proposition to
him?"


ThE UNJUST JUDGE.

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.
"No, Judge," said Leblond; "that will never
do. It will come up in judgement against yon, on
some future occasion, when you would give all
you possess, and ten times that amount, for the
power to recall it."
Well," sai(l Jones, "what then ?
"Procure some man to go and see IJarris,'~ said
Leblond. I would, at all times, and under all cii'-
cunmtanees, prefer walking fifty miles, on foot and
after night at that, to have an interview with a pol-
itician, than to write him a letter. When it he~-
comes necessary, you can deny any charge brought
against you, growing out of the interview ; while
if the charge is 'in black and white, you will occa-
sionally find it difficult to manage."
"That idea," said Jones, "did not strike me~
It would hok rather bad upon paper."
"Politicians must have Argus eyes," said Le-
blod. " And," continued he, " I would send some
sharp fellow to see him, with a proposition of this
character, that in case he would not appear and
prosecute Jewett, he should have twenty-five, or
even fifty dollars; and be sure to clothe your rr~inis-
ter plenipotentiary with discretionary ~ er, o he
can rise and fall-go and come'-to suit the exi-
gencies of the occasion. Every man has his price.
we are told upon high ~.uthority. it may be that
his price is twenty-five dollars, and hence the ne-
~essity of a discretionary power. Lie must be told
that the bond is only one hundred,~ and that if

Jevvett apprehend any danger, he will not appear,
but forfeit his bond; in which event, Harris (being
a lawyer), will know the amount of the bond will
go into the public treasury and nothing into the
pockets of' Mr. lilarris. He is a mercenary crea-
tare; and with a littl.~ diplomacy, may be reached."
Judge Alban remarked, that there was an easier
and ~afcr way of disposing of the trouble than
had yet been suggested.
"116w?" immediately interrupted Jones.
"Just leave the matter to me," said Alban.
Certainly," said Jones ; "this cursed thing did
take place in Alban's Judicial Circuit. Why did
not xve think of that before ?
"I can fix it all up," said Alban. "I can charge
the Grand Jury they arc not bound to notice in~-
fractions of the law growing out of excitement con-
sequent upon the election; but, on the contrary.
wholly to disregard them-that the public good de-
mands the sacrifice."
(doing upon the supposition," said Jones," that
the Grand Jury should disregard your charge, and
find a bill; what then?"
"I will then advise the Public Prosecutor to
node the indictment."
"But suppose the Prosecuting Attorney should
understand him~cW and disregard the advice o(
the Court?".
14


210             TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                         TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

"Jn my Court, sit," said Alban, an advi&amp; is as
imperative as an order, and must be obeyed what-
ever the eonseqUeflCes may be."
"Where, Judge Alban, do you get your author-
ity for advising a case out of the hands of the Pros-
ecutor? Ii think you can find nothing in the stat-
ute, in the common law, or in thc practice of in.
telling cut Courts to justify such a practice."
"What difference does that make ?" said Albang
The prosecuting Attorney has no remedy. lie
has no right to a bill of exception, a writ of error,
nor an appeal. I kick it out of court, and that i~
the last of it. I dislike that d ~i Prosecutor up
there, and it will afford me pleasure to hit him."
But you have a reputation to look after," said
Jones, " and that is dearer to every jurist than afl.
else beside."
Well, well," said Alban, " we arc told by a
great state5fl1~i~, that 'in revolutioI~ai~y times we
have no sabbath,' so in great emergencies, a great
man adapts his measures to his exigencies."
"If you will take the responsibility," replied
Jones, '~ it is the safe~st and most criedtablc plan
for Jewett, as the impressloll will then go abroad
that there were no merits in the case, and hence
no indictment was found ; or, if found, that the
Court regarded it as vexatious and without merit."
" Cpurt sits up there, next week, and," contin-
ned Alban, "Mr. Jew ott must be there to save his
recognizance; and I will take care of the balance."

211

That will do!" said Leblond. " I like to hear
a man say 'I will because I can,' when I am not
the recipient of his tyranny. 'Might gives right,'
is a favorite sentiment of some men."
"That is a fact," said Lahm; anxious to deal
~Jban a blow.
"fools rashly venture in
Wfiel~0 angels dare not tread,"
Jackson's motto was, 'I will, because it is right;
hut, as there is little of old Hickory, about Alban,
and it subserves our purpose, let principle go, this
Come gentlemen," said Jones, "we have no
elections to lose, let us liquor up again."
"XX~e have some character left," said Jewett.
Is that not worth preserving ?
"My (lear fellow, said Alban, " a man who is
tindet' bonds upon a criminal charge, is in little
danger of losing his character from drinking a
glass of brandy."
Jewett's eyes flashed, and he was about to re-
spond to the vulg~,r attack made by Alban, when
ones, discovering what might be the result, inter..
posed, by taking Jewett by the arm and leading
him up to the table, poured out a quantity of brandy
into two glasses, one of which he handed to Jewett,
and the other he raised to his lips as he said, "my
best regards to my friend Mr. Jewett."
Je~ett bowed, and said, as ho quaffed his glass,
"your lion or, sir.
l4~

210


242               THE UNJUST JUDG1~X

"It is now late," said Leblonci, " and it seems to
me something lass 'than a month since we have
~eaten any thing. 'Boy, bring us up twenty dishes of
oysters !"
The boy re piied that the' servants had all retired
several hours since, and that oysters, at that late
hour, or rather at so early an hour, (it being about
two in the morning,) could not be cooked in that
house.
Alban hiccoughed, "this is a d-d pretty tavern,
if gentlemen can't have what they call for. Bring
US         ~, if you have to rouse every man, wo-
man, antt cuiI(t, in the establishment! Keep a
tave~mn, and can't prepare a few plates of oyster's!"
The bov~ after considerable effort and as much
delay, succeeded in. rousing a servant or two; but,
after the In p~c of more than an hour, our xvorthy
Ji~dges, C on re:~men, and Politicians, were not in
a condition u~ relish oysters. Alban was stretched
at ftill, lcn;tii, in one corner of the room-in a
deep, heavy 1u~nb.cr. Leblond was on the centre-
table, in th caine situation; probably, dreaming
of conquer Ih a more agreeable direction than
in heartle~ ~oIiticai fights. Jones was lying, in a
l~lpless ~n~4itio~, upon a sofa; while Jewett, and
~evcral ol+ :~, had retired, to bed.~ The balan~G
were nappI.~ ~ on chairs, in diWerent' parts of tllQ
roOm.
The'oy~i~ wev~ at length introduced, "Just
~.s I expe~K4,'~ said the boy-'~ all as drunk ~

THE UNJUST JUDGE.
fools." Well, when I get to be a man, I will try
to be a sober one. If this kind of thing follows
from becoming a great man, I shall never try to
be a Judge, or go to Congress. Well, they will
have to pay devilish well for these 'er oysters; that
is ~artin. I have been up all night; and now, they
wont be ate. Well, that is not my business; ~
the dimes are forth-coming; and they will be,
that's sure." So saying, the boy left them as com~
portable as, under the circumstances, they could
be.
"Lord 'a massy !" said the boy; as he passed
down stairs, "Jack Blacl~ and Ned Brown, don't
make such blackguards of themselvess" They
get drunk, but they go home lung before this time;
and then, I think, they do not make~as big fools of
theirselves as these groat lamed men do."
Judge Alban reached the county seat of the coun~
ty of ; in due time, court was opei~ed, the
Grand Jury called, and sworn; when Judge Albai~
proceeded to charge. Before he closed,, he reZ
marked, in substance, that we had passed through
a most exciting election-such as had seldom been
witnessed since the organization of our State gov~
emnment-that the. welfare of our political institu~
tions demanded free descussiQn, 5and perfect fre&amp;
dom of thought and action-that any infraction
of the law, going out of this exciPng canvass;
ought wholly to be disregarded; and," said he, "I

T

4


214           THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                      ThE UNJUST JUDGE.         215

now charge you, expressly, to disregard any thing
that may be brought before you, of that character."
Here, Harris picked up his chair and placed it
down by the side of the public Prosecutor, who
had been taken by surprise with the charge of the
court.
"Why," said Harris, Lord Jeffi'ies' was a saint)
when compared with Alban ! Mr. Prosecutor, did.
you ever witnes~such a scene? Who, even in the
darkest days of JFudicial tyranny, ever heard such
language fall from the lips of a J udge ?"
"I was anticipating it," said the h'oseeutor.-
" He is a most c6rrupt man, and has di~graccc1 the
'bench every time he has sat upon it. I~assion and
prejudice rule the man."
I should think he had soiled the ermine."
"Ermine," said the Prosecutor. " He scarcely
knows what it means. I will bring liiii to his fe.eb
ings, if he has any.
"Take good care, said harris "that he does
not bring you to your feelings." You must re-
member that he has the power all in his own hands~
You fight against fearful odds, lookout or he will
give you h-I! I see the brimstone in his eyes."
"I can expose hint;" said the Pr~secutor, "be-
fore the bar and this large crowd; that will be a
satisfaction at least."
"lie has the advantage of you; and, if you in-
sult his dignity, he will send you to jail for con-
tempt of courh"

"if he could have done that, he would have long
since sent the entire bar; for, I assure you, we all
with one or two exceptions have a most perfect
conteii~pt for him and his court," said the Pro~ecutor.
here the Judge directed the Sheriff to turuish
a Constable to take charge of the Grand Jury.
"May it please youg honor," said the Prosecutor, I
apprehend, under the charge of this court, if the
Jury arc at all inclined to regard it, there will be
nothing for thc &amp;raiid Jury to (10.
"Mr. Prosecutor, you will take your seat, sir," said
"I wish to say," said the Prosecuting Attorney, "that
there will be no business before the grand inquest
of our county at the present term, except such as has~
grown out of the election excitement either (lireetly
or indirectly. We haVe several aggravated case~
of assault and battery, a number of violations
of the law against betting-a charge for challenge
to fight a duel, as well as two or three assaults
with intent to murder. Now, your honor, if these
things are to be disregarded, then the Jury have
nothing' to (10."
"I have so charged," said Alban. " You will
take your seat, sir A
"have I no rights hare? Have the people no
tights here? Are we. to have here in this repub-
lican country a revised and enlarged edition of the
dark days of judicial tyranny, with extensive mar-
ginal notes ?"

4


THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                        THE UNJUST JUDGE.         217

)

"Mr. Prosecutor, the Indictment against Mr.
Jowelt, cannot be maintained. I have enquired
into the facts, and you had better nolle it."
"I shall not nolic it, if your honor please," said
the Prosecutor.
Well, the Court will. Mr. Clerk, enter a nplle
p~~iscqid on that indictment," handing it to the
Clerk.

~C Mr. Sheriff !" vociferated Aib an, "take charge
of the Prosecutor, and convey him to jail."
"For what?" enquired the SherifL
"For contempt of this Court," bawled out Al-~
ban.
"Because I will not flatter him," said the Pros..
sector, and added:
"lie would not flatter NeptuPe for his tridaut,
Nor Jove for his rower to thunder."
The Sheriff disregarded the command of the
Court.
Has it come to this," exclaimed Alb an, "that
this Court is without officers?"
The Prosecutor, taking advantage of the indis-
position of the Sheriff to act, remarked, that his
honor, the Judge, had committed all the contempt
that had been committed upon the occasion, by
playing the tyrant and assuming the despot; that
a greater despot and a weaker man, had never
disgraced a court of justice; and as he sat down,
added:
"Of all wild beasts, preserve c me from a tyrant ~
And of all tame---a flatterer."
Quiet being restored, the jury retired, an4 after
an hour's deliberation, returned into court a bill of
Indictment against Jewett, endorsed by their fore~
man, "A true Bill."


CHAPTER XYIIL
So swift trod. sorrow on the heels of joy. --
"Barber~" said Leblond, as the former passed
the office of the latter, " how were ~OL1 pleased
with the remarks of Sibley, the other evening, at
the young men's supper?
Very much," replied Barber. " .1 hope he xvili
never again touch liquor. it he do, lie is mined-
if he do miot, he, will very soon occupy his former
position among us.
"It is all nonsense for him to attempt to qnit,'~
said Leblond. " lie will dpi ~k in less than a mouth."
You ought not to say so, even if you thought
it," said Barber.
Why not? " i.i~quired Leblond.
For this very important reason," continued Bar-
her: "if he should happen to hear such remarks, it
would tend to impair confidence in himself, aD({
hasten the very thing we all fear."
"This temperance move is all a farce ;" said Le-
blond. " A trick of political hucksters to divide and
conquer. I have no faith in it whatever."
"It may be that you have no faith in it, and it is
even possible that you regard it as a trick; yet,

TilE UNJUST JUDGE.          219

that does not make it such. And," continued Bar-
her, "there are thousands upon thousands, every
where, and in every condition in life, who need
the aid of a stringent Liquor law."
"Who," inquired Leblond, "in this community ?"
Sibley, for one," replied Barber.
"Well," said Lebloiid, " name anotheP, if you
can."
Mr. Leblond, for another," quickly he r&amp;
sponded.
"What ! " ejaculated Leblond, " mt~, sir ?
Yes, sir, ywt !"
"Mr. Barber, do you intend to insult me, in my
own office?"
No, sir; I do not."
" Do you intend to charge me with being' a drunk-
ard, sir? I shall submit to no such imputations,
sir !
"I do not make the charge, for the reason that
1 (10 not believe you are a drunkard ; but my love
of candor compels me to say you are in most im-
inent danger of becoming such; and, unless you
stop just where ~OU ai~e, and that immediately, you
will fill a drunkard's gi~ave, contrary to all the yes-
olution and firmness you possess, a:~d that is no
mean share."
Barber, if you were not in my office, I would
call you a fool."
That," coolly replied Barber, " would not be
gentlemanly; it would not render me such, ~o~'

219


220

THE UNJUST JUDGE

would it prevent you from becoming what Ipre-
diet. NOW, Leblond," continued Barber, "you are
well enough acquainted with me to know that I
cannot be deterred from saying what I think upon
the subject. I entertain no unkind feelings for
you, and wihltherefore, talk to you with reference
to your good alone."
That is apocryphal, to say the least of it," re-
plied Leblond.
"No, sir;" said Barber,." I can have 110 motive
but your good."
A little pent up malice to gratify," said Le-
blond, "that is all."
" None at all ; not the slightest," said Barber.
"You defeated me, in the late contest for Congress;
that you had a right to do. I did all I could fairly,
to defeat you, and failed. Only one of us could
be elected, and you are tile Ilappy man. It is true,
I thought at the time, and still think, that you were
not as frank and candid in your electioneering, as
I was. I thought I
- " merited, alas! a better fate;
But, heaven thought otherwise."
"Mr. Barber, you are probably, honestly, but
certainly, mistaken in my habits," said Leblond.
"Leblond, we are apt to lack candor with our
friends. Too often we say to them, what we know
will be agreeable, without reference to their good.
Now, sir, their is neither philosophy nor good sense,
nor is there any honesty in such a course. Gener-

I

ally, the man who is guilty of a fault of this kind,
is the last to notice it. lie is a confirmed and ir-
redeemable druilkard, and a topic of conversation
among his neighbors before he discovers it himself.
Leblond, we ought to reo'ard the man who xviii, in
a kind and friendly manlier, tell us of our faults.
as our best friend; for the reals on that it requires
no little courage to enable him to perform that
(ljsagreeable duty."
Barber," said Leblond, anxious to change the
subject, " Sibley will be drinking' again, in less
than a month."
I do not believe it,~' said Barber ; "vet, if you
honestly entertain that opinion, it is a strong ad-
ditional reason w~iy you should be more eautiou~
as to your
own h~tbits.
if you are honest in your apprehensions as to
my flute you mustregardme as a very weak brother,
and you have had evidence to the contrary."
"That does not follow," replied i3arber, without
seeming~ to notice tile sp;r~t in whioh it was said.
[ntelleet iS 110 protection against the inveteracy
of habit. I could, and would refer you to numer-
ous instances, in ancient and modern times, n
proof of the position I have asstlme(l, did I not
know you are well aware that many, of tile first in-
tellects of ev&amp;ry age, have been victimized by the
fell destroyer. Dryden has beautifully expressed it
~, virtue, like strong na
Strouct            ture, struggles ~til1
1~xevts jiscif, and then t1ii~ow~s off the ill.:'

TilE UNJUST JUDGE.          221

221


'222          THE UNJUST JUDGE.
The struggles of strong virtue, are all that xviii save
a~ man in danger from this vice. While strong
heads may save men from the commission of crime,
virtuous hearts can alone save them from contract-
ing vicious habits. The universal experiencee of
ages will attest the fact."
Leblond, unable to reply, and feeling his situa-
tion was becoming more and more uncomfortable,
made another effort to change t1~ e subject, by in-
sisting that Sibley would very soon be drinking
again.
Lie will sot," said Barber.
lIe will ," replied Lel)lond.
He will not," repeated Barber.
He will," continued Leblond.
You are entirely mistaken in the man," said
Barbei'. "lie has too much firmness of purpose."
"Perhaps you would risk a little money upon
your opinion of Sibley's firmness of purpose ?"
No, sir !" said Barber. " A wager is a fool's
last argument."
" Yes, sir ! and fools often lose at the game,"
retorted Leblond. "I am always icady to back
up my opinions with money."
"I, upon the contrary, usually back mine with
argument of a different character," said Barber.
"You dare not bet," said Leblond.
"I dare do anything that an honest man cando
with a clear conscience," said Barber.

223

"I'll bet you one hundred dollars," continued
Leblond, "that Sibley is drinking again in less
time than one month. Now, cover it, if you are a
man ; and, if not, be a little more modest, and
make less parade of your opinions."
In violation of principle, and my convictions
of right, Eli cover your money," said Barber.
\Yl~ere shall we make the deposit? " inquired
Lebiond.
Any where," replied Barber. "With lAir. Ames,
across the street, Ii suppose.
They walked over the way, and deposited with
Mr. Ain(s, each, 0110 hundred dollars, in pursuance
(4 the above arrangement; and Leblond " went
on his way rejoicing ;" while Barber was conscious
that lie had compromised his character, his prin-
ciples, and his dignity-felt that he had disgraced
himself, and had been guilty of gross folly.
Now," soliloquized Leblond, " we'll see who is
ihe fool. Eli bleed the sage gentleman, to the tune
of one hundred, certain."
Barber walked directly to Sibiey's office, and in-
lormedi him of what was done. And urged him,
by all he valued in life-by his hopes in the future
~VOrld, to abstain.
Sibley was aficeted oven to tears, and replied:
Barber, I have every thing to gain, and noth-
ii~g to lose, in clinging to principle; while I have
~vei'y thing to lose, and nothing' to gain by a de-
parture from it."

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.


224               'rilE UNJUST JUDGE.                                                  ThE IJN~(JST JUDGE.

225

Leblond, after an absence of a few hours, re-
turned to his office, ill at ease. lie had accom-
pushed his purpose, in part, but the more he re-
volved the matter~ in his mind, the less he felt in-
clined to draw ~ibIey into the whirlpool from which
he had so recently escaped.
Finally, he was heard to say "What am I to
do; let old Barber have my money? No, that
will not do. I have earned it 'in the sweat of my
face,' and he shall not appropriate it to his "own
benefit and. behoof," that is as certain as 1 live!
What then? Qo to Barber and tell him this bet-
ting is all foolish, and that I would prefer losing'
the money, to seeing Siblcy drink again; and pro-
pose drawing the bet?" After a moment's re-
flection, he continued "1 don't like that idea; it
would be humiliating. I dogged him into this bet,
and now, to back out of it would l)c yielding more
than I ought. I won't do it."
lie sat, wrapt in thought, for a considerable
time, ~yhiie fierce passions were at war in his bo-
som. " A capital idea! That is it ! I can tell
Sibley that I have made the bet, and have hint
take a dram---and but a dram-by which I cai~
win the money; and that, by way of considera-
tion, I will give him one half of the prize I shall
bear off. But, how am I to approach Sibley? And
then"suppose, after he takes one dram, he should
insist upon another and another, and relapse into
hi~ old habits? That would be horrible!. horrible !!,

it was only last Sabbath I saw 'him genteel dress~
ed, with his wife and family, all neatly and taste-
fully attired, on their way to Church. Incur the
risk of breaking up this felicity-this beatic joy ?"
He sprang to his feet, and exclaimed: "No, by
hell! I can't!" And began, in a deep state of agi-
tation, to walk back and forward, across the floor
of his office.
1-Je calmed down and muttered, "d-n it, our
first thoughts are always the best. I will go to
sibley; he is not a fool; and, for fifty dollars, he
can take one glass and then quit. But it will not
do for me to go with him.
"We must draw in somebody that may stand
'Twixt us and danger."
That is, however, easily got along with. I can
see Jake Infamy, the grocery keeper, and send
Sibley to him, with the understanding that 'he is
to have one glass, and one only. But, I will dream
over this thing, and to-morrow, if I am of the
same opinion, it can be fixed. Curse Barber! I
almost wish his Satanic Majesty had had him be-
fore he passed by here~ This confounded affair
has annoyed me more than any little incident in
the whole course of my life; and then, it may
prove more than a little incident.
Leblond rose, next morning, feverish and still
debating with himself whether he ought not to go
to Barber-frankly acknowledge his er~or.-and
draw the bet. And thus he continued 'suspended
I ~


226           THE UNJUST JUDGE.

227

between duty and avarice, until near the close of
the month, having, in the meantime, been drinking
freely. On the morning of the last day of the
time ~peeifled, Leblond dropped into a grocery and
took, in the course of two hours, three or four
heavy potations, and then repaired to Sibley's of-
fice, remarking to Infamy as he left, that he would
I      ''try him on, at all events."
"The wager, ~s related to Sibley, by Barber,
had entirely passed from his memory; and, con-.
sequently, when Leblond entered his office, the
object of his visit did not occur to Sibley.
Mr. Sibley," remarked Leblond, "I have a fa-
vour to ask of you, this morning. It is of a very
delicate character, yet I have no doubt you ~vi14
confer it."
"1 am under many obligations to you, Mr. Le-
blond. Name your desire, and if it is within the
range of possibilities, it shall be gratified."
Leblond hesitated, but finally gave Sibley to un-
derstand that he wanted him to drink a glass of
brandy at the grocery.
"Sir," exclaimed Sibley, you have drawn a draft
upon    that I must dishonor."
"Leblond was so much under the influence of
liquor that he was void of the little sensibility he
usually possessed; and, therefore, went on to enu~
merate the very mauy favors he had bestowed
upon Sibley and his family, and wound up by al-
luding to the fact, that Barber was not and nevcr

had been his. friend, and that while he had stepped'
forward and defended him upon his trial, Barber
allowed himself to be used against him upon the
part of the State.
Sibley remembered the manner of Barber's at-
tack upon him, and while it ought to have roused
his pride and strengthened his resolution, by re-
minding him of his degi'adation, it fired his re-
venge and inclined him to favor LebIond~s propo~
~.4t1Ofl
"I acknowledged that I owe you a debt of grati-
jude I shall, probably, never be able to pay,"
remarked Sibley.--" That you have claims upon
my gratitude and regard, no other man ever has
had, or can have; and," continued he, "it is with
the deepest regret that I now refuse to comply with
your present request. YOLI could make no requi-
sition on me to which I would not yield, did it not
involve my shame, my degradation, my complete
ruin. Ought you, can you insist upon this ? I
would rather borrow teii times the amount of the
bet and give it to you. I would rather, at this mo-
ment, suffer the amputation of my right arm than
grant your request."
"Can't you," said Leblond, "take one dram and
then stop?"
"That is exceedingly doubtful, sir;" said Sib-
ley. "But, suppose I did, it Would do you no good
unless it became public, and that publicity would
1 5~

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

226


228             TIlE UNJUST JUDGT..                                                 TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.          229

rob me of the confidence of my patrons and friends,
and be the death knell of all my hopes in life."
Leblond, with all the archness of a fiend, as~
sumed a tone of voice in unison with Sibley's
lacerated feelings, and remarked that the wager
was a most unfortunate incident, and that if fifty
times the amount involved, would recall the fol-
lies of that hour, he would willingly give it; but
it was more than a mere matter of dollars and
cents-it involved his wounded pride and disgrace.
But," returned Sibley, "it involves my wounded
pride, my disgrace. It goes beyond that-it in-
volves my ruin-and that of my family-in time,
and, may be, in eternity."
"Come, Sibley, come; let 's take a stroll and dis-
pel this~melancholy that's mantling your count&amp;
nance."
They walked down street, and as they passed
along, Leblond suggested an ice lemonade.
$ibley opposed going into a saloon.
Leblond insisted the~ drink proposed, was quite
as harmless as coffee.
They entered a saloon, and Leblond called for
~the ade which was immediately prepared and
placed v~pon the counter. After drinking about
one fourth of the contents of his glass, Leblond
~ear~fiilly raised a decanter, and while Sibley's atten-
4~ion was in another direction, poured a small quan-
tity of iirandy into his glass. Without having no-
ticed what had occurred, Sibley quaffed his glass,

and instantly turned upon Leblond and exclaimed:
"You emptied brandy in my glass, sir!"
Leblond drew down his brows, and cautiously
began a reply, without knowing precisely what
shape to give it-whether to deny the charge or
attempt a mitigation of his baseness.
While Leblond was stammering aI~d taxing his
mental energies for an answer, Sibley seized the
bottle and filled his glass to the brim with brandy,
and impelled by an insatiate appetite, roused by
Leblond~s imposition, drank it to the bottom, and
immediately left the saloon.
Leblond, stupefied as well a~ alarmed at the re-
sult of his villainy, in sullen silence followed Sib-
1ev, at a distance, until he saw him enter a grocery.
lie quickened his pace, and was at his side in time
to seize his arm, as lie was in the act of raising
a glass of liquor to his lips, exclaiming, almost at
the top of his voice, "In heaven's name, Sibley,
what are ~ doing?"
Sibley turned upon him, and cried out, "In hells
name, what have you done, sir?"
Contrary to Leblond's remonstrance, and in spite
of all his efforts, Sibley drank his glass-reeled
out and staggered up the street-entered his office
a moment, and then proceeded to his house. As
he crossed the threshold of his door he fell. Mrs.
Sibley rose, and as she raised up both hands, ex-
claimed, "Oh! Sibley, Sibley! De~olation has
again entered our humble abode!"


230

TILE UNJUST JUDGE.

Sibley gathered himself up, and caught her by
the hair of the head and dragged her into the yard,
when she cried for help. The eldest daughter, a
most amiable, pious young girl, and devoted to her
father, in an upper chamber, unconsciouS of what
was transpiring, until she heard the cry for help,
rushed down-snatched an axe that chanced to be
standing near the door, and in the wild delirium of
the moment, dealt him, upon the head, six blows,
any one of which was sufficient to produce death1
and became a raving maniao

I

CHAPTER XIX.
~at sweeter still than this, than these, than all,
Is firsi and pas~ioaate love; it stands alone
Like Adams' recollection of his fall. - -ByrG~.
"Amelia," said her father, as he came, puffing
and blowing, into her room in a complete state of
excitement and exhaustion, "the Honorable Mr.
Lebloiid is in town. I've just been at the hotel
and met him."
Anti what is that to me ? " coolly, and with
aI)parent great indifference, replied Amelia, xvhile
her pulse was increased to about one hundred to
~he minute.
I supposed you would like to see him
with p~n affected carelessness.       , said he,
"Why should I?" retorted Amelia, with some
warmth.
"0, because you were old school-mates."
"Father," said Amelia, "if Lucius Leblond
possesses the spirit that animated him when a boy,
I incline to the opinion he will trouble your house
but little."
Withoutnoticing what had been said, he required
her to prepare for his reception, and added: "Why,
Amelia, he is a Member~of Congress.~-.-~-is a fine

fr


232           THE UNJUST JUDGE.

lawyer-has a heavy practice-and I have been
informed, by a gentleman directly from his part of
the country, that the fellow has actually become
rich 1 Who would 'a thought it?"
"It is true, we were school-mates, and were at-
tached from childhood, but you compelled me to
treat him with disrespect because he had the mis-
fortune to be poor. I was satisfied, when he left
here, he would sooner or later distinguish himself
He possessed a superior intellect, and was as am-
bitious as Julius Ca~sar. Then, you saw no merit
in him, because the almighty dollar was wanting~
Then, I must not associate with that 'trifling Lu;
but now, 'the honorable Mr. Leblond has come to
town.' I will," continued she, "give him no en-
couragement, however strongly he may desire to
renew our former friendship "-manifesting more
opposition than her, feelings would justify. In
truth, she desired. to see him, an~ secretly enter-
tained the hope that he had not forgotten his first
love.
" You must do as I (lesire in the premises," quick-
ly interrupted the father, and repaired to another
part of the house for the purpose of communicat-
in~ to his wife the fact, that the Hon. Lucius Le-
1)lOfld was in town; and after he had imparted the
information he hdded: "Now, mother, we must en-
deavor to bring about a match between Luciu~
and Amelia."

"There are many things to be considered,'~ said
the mother, who had much more penetration than
her husband. "Are Ameb a's affections not enlisted
in another direction? What do you know about
Lucius' character.? He has been absent for some
years, and may have eouitracted vicious habits an(1
become dissolute; so that, whatever his position
in society may be, or whatever his circumstances
otherwise may have become, he would be unwor-
thy of our daughter."
Oh, fudge ! " said the father ; ~'what signifies
'affections in another direction?' Affections are
very easily transferred when convenience and profit
require the conveyance. And, as to his habits, if
they are irregular and bad, how can you account
fur his success in money-making; for his large
practice at the bar, and his election to Congress ?"
"You sterner sex," returned the mother, "may be
able, with comparative ease, to transfer your affec-
tions to suit exegel)ci es; but with us, matters of
the heart are not to be trifled with. In a neighbor-
ing city, I notice in one of our public prints, there
is at this time, over o ~ie hundred applications P~'~-
ding' for divorce; an I have no doubt, if the fact
could be ascertained, it would appear in each case,
that there had been one dr more previous trans-
fer of the affections upon the part of one or both.
Tripper beal4tifully expresses my idea:
If the love of the heart is blighted, it buddeth ~ot agaiii
If that pleasant song is forgotteii, it is to be learnt no iuore.'

THE UNJUST JUDGE.         233

233

282


234           THE UNJUST JUDGE.

The marriage relation is, of all others, the
most sacred; and, unless it is based upon pure, as
well as reciprocal affection, there is great dan-
ger of discord, and the thousand other troubles that
break up and ruin families. I would rather fob
low Ameliato he: grave than witness her mercenary
marriage1" "As to his success in business," con-
tinued she, "how often do we see the most disso-
lute, for a time, ' flourish like a- green bay tree?'
And in politics, generally, the greater the scamp,
and the more unprincipled the man, the more cer-
tain is success. With a plentiful supply of villainy,
and a moderate portion of cunning it requires but
little intellect to secure temporary political success.'
"Is Amelia engaged ?" enquired her father.
Not that I. know of," replied the mother.
Well," continued he, "why talk about afl'ec-
tions in another direction? '~
Because," replied she, " this tampering with
the affections-this match-making, and match-
breaking, is a very delicate business; and hence,
I instituted the inquiry. It is seldom that attach-
ments formed late in life, have anything like .per-
manency about them; and why? Because the en-
tire i~ egion of the heart has been occupied and re-
occupied, until it has become sterile, unproductive,
and incapable of producing anything licyofid the
respect or regard an individual would have for one
of his or her own sex. And hence, late marriages
are always to be avoided, unless there is sufficient

sterling good sense, on both sides, to keep in check
the less amiable qualities of our nature."
Here, he interrupted, by reminding he~r that
she was always moralizing and philosophizing on
every thing, li oxvever trivial.
She answered him, by hoping that he did not
consider the temporal, and possibly the eternal,
welfare Qf his only daughter and only child, a mat-
ter of little consequence.
The old man, intent upon his purpose, (as was
characteristic of him, and hence his success in life,)
xvas not to be foiled, insisted upon entertaining
company that evening, for the benefit of the "Hon.
Mr. Leblond."
He returned to his store, and immediately put
two or three of his clerks to writing Ii otes of invi-
tation. By noon of that day, the bon ton of the
town were notified of his intention, that night, to.
give a supper. Among others, Leblond received a
notification, butt the old gentleman, not willing to
trust a mere note, returned again to the hotel,
and had an interview with Leblond, managed
to let him know the supper was in honor of him
and his arrival; exacted and received a pledge
from Leblond, that he would be present.
Leblond received the old man with great clever-
ness, and left upon his mind a very favorable im-
During the afternoon, and three or four houm s
pressing.
before the company was expected, Leblond put

THE UNJUST JUDGE.         235

235

234


236               TII~E UNJUST JUDG1~                                           TiLE UNJUST JUDGE.             -237

himself in as complete trum as his well supplied
wardrobe would admit, and called upon Amelia.
When the announcerPent was made that a gentle-.
man was in the l)arlor and wished to see Amelia,
~he declined seeing him.
Her father, who happened to be present where
~he was in the kitchen, superintending the aiTauge-
ments for the coming supper, suggested that it
might be the "lion. Mr. Leblond," and therefore,
insisted upon her repairing immediately to the par-
lor.
After much hesitancy, Amelia entered the room.
Leblond rose, and met her near the door. l3oth
crimsoned, and neither heavd what the other said.
lie seated her upon the sofa, and himself in a
large rocking' -chair, near by.
After the confusion of the meeting' was over,
Amelia said-
It has been a long time since we have had
the 1leasuire of seeing you in this part of the
country; " and added, "it has been as much a~
eight years since I saw you."
"I have seen you, very frequently, since that ;"
replied Leblond.
"When an] where ?" exclaimed Amelia, with
some surprise.
"In visions of the night," answered Leblond.
Amelia blushed, and was silent.
Our lovers felt deeply embarrassed. The thoughts
of other days were upon them. The reminiscences

of childhood and early youth were crowding upoi~
their minds, and it stopped their utterance The
silence was at length broken by Amelia, who
thought Mr. Leblond had grown considerable since
8he had last seen him.
Leblond replied, that when he left, his height
was five }~et ten, and that it was now six feet and
two; and added that Miss Amelia had changed
quite as much as he had.
"Mr. Leblond," said Amelia, " You must have
enjoyed excellent health; at least you have that
appearance."
"Very good," replied Leblond. "I have labored
very hard, and studied some; and yet my appear-
ance wouId~ probably, not indicate that I had done
much at either."
" You haxre had some out-door exercise, I hope ?"
remarked Amelia.
aid Leblond. "I have confined
myself to my office but very little for the last few
months. I have been engaged in what we polite~
clans call ' campaigning.'"
You made it pay, I have had the pleasure to be
informed;" blushing slightly as she recollected the
source and Occasion of the information.
That remains behind the curtain of the future,"
said Leblond. "There is little advantage to be
derived from entering the arena and turning polit-
ical gladiator. There is alxvays some wear and
tear of conscience."


238

TILE UNJUST JUDGE.

"I hope," exclaimed Amelia, "you came out of
the struggle unscathed?" Discovering that she
threw a little too much feeling into the inquiry,
she colored ~lightly, and was again silent.
Leblorid, feeling that he could not answer in the
affirmative without a misrepresentation, bow ed,
and proceeded to say, that so numerous were the
political aspirants, at the present day, that it was a
constant process of pulling down and climbing up.
That as soon as a man acquired some position,
there were so many interested in pulling him
down and pushing him out of the way, that unless
he was a man of much more than ordinary caliber,
his political course was a brief one; and when he
was forced from the arena, he was generally in a
crippled conditioTh and usually disqualified for
grappling With any other pursuit in life."
"Forbear, you things
That stand upon the pinnacles of state,
To boast your slippery height; when you do fall
You dash yourselves in pieces, never to rise."
is the sentiment of Ben Jolmson," said Amelia, and
then expressed the hope that he would get out
without being pushed out and dashed in pieces.
Leblond replied that there was an ucca~ional
instance, such as she had suggested, but they were
"Like angels visits, few and far between."
Men," continued he, love "power-love excite-
ment-love praise-love to hear the huzzas of the
~rowd, and seldom abandon th~ hope of obtaining.

I;,

THE UNJUST JUDGE.              239
the top rung of the political ladder utitil they find
them~eIves prostrate in the dust at the foot, inca-
pable of rising. Tickell expresses it more poeti.~
cally, and with quite as much truth, when he says:
Thus the fond moth around the taper pIa~ 5,
And sports and flutters near the treacherous blaze
Ravish'd with joy, he wings his eager flight,
Nor dreanis of ruin in so clear a liolit;
lie tempts his fate, and courts a glorious doom,
A bright distinction arid a shiciug tomb.''
Leblond, having remained longer than fashion
or policy would sanction, rose to leave, when Arne-
ha expressed the hope they would have the pleas-
ure of his society again, during the evening.
Leblond bowed assent, bade her good afternoon,
After he reached his room, he threw himself upon
and soliloquized as follows:
the ' Spectator,' which is good British au~
thority, at least, tells us "lovers are always allowed
the comfort of soliloquy.' Things are right if I
have not misinterpreted the signs of the times.
So far as the old gentlenmu is concerned, he is now
piling Pelion upon Ossa. Well, he knows about
little as when I knew him formerly, and his
JLIdgment quite as imperfect. lie understands the
mysterious art of gathering and keeping together
the dollars; and, if I should become his future son-
in-law, this, will covei~ many imperfections. But.
the girl is more interesting than when I last saw
her. She has been maturing and storing her gift2


240     .      TILE UNJUST JUDGE.
ed intellect. What a sensation a woman of her
appearance and versatile acquirements would pro-
duce at the National Capitol. Well, we shall see,
in the course of a very few days, in what all these
things ~vill result. She is the only woman that
has ever awakened in my bosom the tender passiofi.
I came very near acknowledging it, too, when IL
told her I had frequently seen her in visions of the
night. That was making a declaration rather too
soon; but she has not forgotten olden times. They
seem to steal over the chords of her memory, like
the mild, ethereal tones of the A~olian harp, or
strains of distant melody."
Here the idea flitted across his mental vision,
that it was singular a lady of such rare accomplish-
ments, to say nothing of the solid wQrth and shining
charms in the shape of one hundred thousand dol-
lars in stocks, and those not 'fancy,' should no4t
have suitors and. he exclaimed, "if she has been
sought and xvonhOW rayless xviii be my pilgrimage
in life? But in the language of Milton-
"What need a man forestall his date of grief,
And run to meet what he would most avoid ~
if they be but false alarms of fear,
lIow bitter is such self-delusion 2"
After some time spent in silent thought, he rose
and gave every possible attention to his toilet that
the most exquisite taste could require, and then
started for the house of Amelia, wher&amp; all his
\hopes now centered.

Though he reached his intended father-in-law's,
early, he found the house crowded. The rumor
had gotten afloat, either through surmise, or some
casual remark of the old gentleman, that the sup-
pur was given in honor of the future son in-law;
every person, son and maiden, grey-haired father
and mother, beau and exquisite, honored with ~v
bid, was present; and at an unusually early hour.
When Leblond entered, he was astonished at the
sensation he produced. Tie found himself the
observed of all observers." Tie unostentatiousjy
took a scat, and engaged in conversation with a
gentleman who happened to be in his neighbor-
hood.
After the abatement of the sensation produced
by the appearance of Leblond, who was tall and
finely proportioned, the evening, passed off with-
oi~t any occurrence to distinguish it from an ordi-
nary occasion of the kind; and Lebknd returned
to the hotel-retired to rest; and again saw Ame-
lia in the vision of his pillow; but more beautiful
than~ ever. Seven o'clock, the next morning, found
Leblond in Amelia's parlor, listlessly turning over
the pages of some choice books upon her pier~
table, awaiting her arrival.
Amelia soon made her appearance. Leblonci
rose, and greeted her with a cordial shake of the,
hand. Their attachment h~d commenced in th~
4ittie, log school house, early in the morning oi~

ThE UNJUST JUDGE.          241

4


242            TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                      THE UNJUST JUDGE.          243

life, and had ripened into devotion; but had been
buried in the silent chambers of the heart, xvith-
out either being conscious that the other possessed
it. An ~~knowledgemCnt would have, doubtless,
been made of its existence upon the part of Le~
blond, and reciprocated by Amelia, had it not
been for the opposition of the father. lie had
carried it so far as to positively interdict any asso-
ciation. The extent of his unkindness, Leblond
had never known until he, that day, learned it
from Amelia. lie had suspected its existence from
her reserve and affected indifference for him,
which he had the shrewdness to perceive was
affectation. Stung by the repulse, he entered
college and nearly became a martyr to his books.
lie entered upon the study of the law with the
same high and holy purpose of making himself
worthy of Amelia. lie seldom entered upon any
enterprise without having her present in his mind.
her mellow and flute-like voice was constantly
ringing in his eat's; and when he engaged in the
trial of an important cause, he imagined her by
his 5ide, listening to each word as it fell from his
lips. Reader, imagine his felicity, when he was
informed by liet', that he had never ceased to oc~
cupy the big armed chair in her affections.
The unkind remark, that he was" a poor unlet-
tered boy," was the legitimate fruit of affection
provoked by little flirtations carried on by Leblond,
among her cotempbraries of the village.

Dinner was now announced; when, Leblond
said, "You dine early."
Amelia replied that the servants, from some
cause, had anticipated the usual time; that they
diped at twelve.
Leblo~d took out his watch, which m;ade it after
two.
They immediately proceeded to the dining room,
where they found the old gentleman, apparently
much pleased with himself and the rest of man~
kind; while the old lady was in a more thought..
ful mood.
Leblond rose from the table with the intention
of procuring a conveyance, and visiting his parents,
who then resided some two or three miles from the
village. Before leaving he must see Miss Amelia
a moment alone. lIe accordingly entered the
parlor; soon after which, Amelia was seated by
his side; where they remained, unconscious of the
lapse of time, until they were summoned to tea.
They had lighted their faith-were affianced.
Amelia pressed him to remain for tea, but he tore
himself away, and was soon in the humble abode
of his parents, where he was the recipient of the
hospitalities of their frugal board.
After rusticating for several days, and fui'nish.-
ing his father the means of purchasing him a
small but comfortable home, he returned to the
village and spent some two days in the society of
Amelia; realizing the beauty of Tupper, as he
16*

1


never had before, though he had read and repeated
it often.
c~ tove is a sweet idolatry, enslaving all the sonb-~
A mighty spiritual force, warring with the dullness of matter;
Au Angel-mind, breathed into a mortal, though fallen, yet how
beautiful I
All the devotion of the heart in all its d~pth and grandeur."
All was now done but the most difficult part.-
To submit the negotiation for the ratification of
her parents, was neither a business matter nor a
legitimate part of the practice in court of the lit-
tie god Cupid. The more he revolved the thing in
his mind, the more difficult it became. Amelia
had left the parlor some thirty minutes, and it
seemed to him an age. lie' finally rose, and bid-
ding Mr~ Leonard good night, walked some
tanee north of the village, and was soon in the
midst of a delightful grove of sugar maple. In
that sequestered spot he sat upon a moss covered
mound-thrown up by a tree that had probably
been torn out by the rude storm, but had long
since mouldered to its former elements-viewing
the varied hues of a distant forest as the mellowed
rays of an autumnal sun, retiring beyond the west~-
em hills, lingered upon its foliage-while he re-
peated from Tupper the following exquisite lines:
"There is a fragrant blossom, that maketh glad the garden of the head;
Its root lieth deep; it is delicate, yet lasting, as the lilac crocus o~
autuluhl!
Loneliness and thought are the dews that water it morn and even ~
Nlleiuory and Absence cheri.Th it, as the balmy breathiuge of the soutk&amp;:

Ws sun' is the brightness of affection, and it bloozneth in the borders
of hope;
It~ companions are the gentle flowers, and the brier withereth by its
side.
I saw it budding in beauty; I felt the magic of its smile."
Leblond felt as he had never before. His sym-
pathies were all upon the si(le of virtue, lie sat
forming resolutions and plans for future life, until
the dews of evening began to distil around him,
and the shades of night settle upon the beautiful
landscape spread out before him.
Among the resolutions he had formed was that
he would never again drink anything that would
intoxicate. And, for the purpose of freeing him-
self from the temptation that would beset hiiii
upon his return home, he determined to come out
an open and av6wcd Thiend and advocate of the
Maine law, and embrace all suitable opportuni-
ties of publicly discussing the necessity and im-
l)o1'tance of its passage.
lie returned and spent the evening with Amelia.
Before leaving the hotel, he attempted to pen
Mr. Leonard a line, and in that way, invite a rati-
fication of the treaty, but he invariably came to a
halt as soon as he had written, "L. Leonard;
Esq., My Dear Sir :" and, after several ineffectual
efforts, quitted the unpleasant task, for the more
agreeable one of a tete-a-tete with Amelia.
In the course of the evening, Mr. Leonard came
into the parlor; and, thereupon, Amelia left it.
"Now," thought Tdeblond, "is my time; and

244            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                             TIWJ UNJUST ~               245

244

245


246          THE. UNJUST JUDGE.
he stammered it out more awkwardly than he had
ever done anything. After giving his consent,
and sitting a few moments, Mr. Leonard rose up~
took his hat and left the room; when, in the course
of a few moments, Mrs. Leonard entered the par-
lor. Leblond met her at the door, and enquired
whether the'~y had her coiisent. She nodded asse~it
~nd sobbed, "Amelia is a good girl ;" and imme-
diately left the room.
Leblond and Amelia fixed the period for their
union, which was to occur as he was passing
through, on his way to Congress; and separated
as do lovers usually.
Leblond, in less than an hQur, was on his way
home, at th~ top of Railroad speed; where lw
safely arrived during the ensuing eveni~g~

IThAPTER XX.
~o lie transgresseth yet again, and falleth by little and little,
Till the ground. crumble beneath him and he si nketh in the gulf des-
pairing.                                   [things,
For there is nothing in earth so small that it may not produce greet
And no swerving from a right line, that may not lead eternally astray.
Tupper.
Judge AlbanPiiosecutor Lalim, and Sheriff Sikes,
had engaged actively in the political campaign,
Previous to which no one of whom had been re-
garded as a confirmed inebriateyet each was fond
of a glass, and were in the habit of drinking, more
or less, every week; and would, occasionally, be-
come quite intoxicated.
During the political contest, the Sheriff confined
hi~ operations to the county in which he resided,
travelling from town to town, drinking freely, and
as freely treating the friends and sttpporters of Le-
blond-It was said-with Leblond's money; but
of that we are not certain, and therefore, will not
venture the positive assertion.
4        The field of Alban and Lahm was more extended.
They went from county to county, and from town
to town, in each county in the Congressional
District; and, as they passed, called, not upon the
sober, thinking, and better' portion of the commu-
nity, bu~ mingling with that class of our fellow-


citizens who constitute the floating vote in every
political contest-charging Barber with being a
temperance man, liberal and contracted in all
his views; while they claimed for Leblond, that he
had' no connection with any of the fanatics of
the day-was generous to a fault-liberal in all
his notions and views-would drink a dram when
he needed it, and always had a few dimes with
which to treat his friends.
On one occasion, after our two worthies had left,
the following conversation took place, between a
clergyman and one of his deacons, who had been
closely observing Alban and Lahrn in their efforts
to make votes for Leblond:
~ I have sometimes thought it strange," said the
Deacon, "that such characters, should be able to
exert any influence on their fellow men."
"Men have, in all ages of the world," said the
clergyman, "been more easily reached through
their vices than their virtues."
"That is a dark picture of human nature."
"It is nevertheless true. The history, of every
age and country establishes the fact."
"It is a picture," exclaimed the deacon, "over
which the heart sickens. You do not mean, I hope,
that all men are more under the influence of vice
than virtue?"
"No," replied the clergyman. "Heisod said,
many centuries ago, that the gods had placed la-
bor before virtue. To be virtuous you must strug-

24~            THE tTNJIJST JUDGE.                                        THE UNJUST JUDGE.          249

gie up stream against wind and current while to
he vicious is to throw, or-unresistingly allow your-
self to get into the stream and float upon the cur-
rent wit hout effort. Hence the injunction, "watch
p~ud pray lest ye enter into temptation.'
"I have noticed," said the deacon, "that while
you, and I, and other sober and industrious men,
are pass ~d by these politicians, without being re-
garded as possessing any power over our neighbors,
worth soliciting; while Torn Snooks, Joe Haynes,
and Dick Bumpers, are courted, treated, and con-
ferred with. Why is it? They are by no means a
inaj ority in. any community."
"No," i'ephied the clergyman, "this poor unfor-
t~uiiatc class of men you mention, are not more
than a tenth of the community, and yet they con-
trol the other nine-tenths."
"Can you inform me how this thing is brought
about?" inquired the deacon.
~I ~trn very little of the politician," said the
clergyman, "yet I have fancied the thing wa~
easy of solution. Such men as Snooks, Haynes,
and Bumpers, with a few kindred spirits generally
infest every community. They have no charac-
ters to lose; and hence they assert anything and
everything, without any regard, whatever, to truth.
Laud one class of candidates to the very clouds,
while they slander and traduce their opponents in
most unmeasured terms; and do it, too, with entire
impunity, as they are wholly irresponsible. And


TJLHE UNJUST SUDGE.            251

2f0            ThE UNJUST JUDGE.

incredible as it may appear, in process of time this
class of men will manufacture a public sentiment
which carries the election. They exert an influ-
ence upon better men than themselves; .and they,
in their turn, upon still a better class; and thus,
until the entire community is permeated."
"That reminds me, of the story of Themostocles
who said that his little son about three years 01(1,
governed the people of his State, and his explana-
tion was, the child governed its mother, she gov-
erned him and he governed the people."
Exactly so," said the clergyman. hence poli-
tician~, who are for the most part close observers,
and well schooled in human nature, secure ~hi~
class of men, and through them secure others they
could not otherwise reach. Often a few glasses of
liquor and a little familiarity accomplish the task."
"What remedy would you suggest for these ills?"
"The same," replied the clergyman, "that the
Grecian ought to have adopted with his wife and
child."
"Whatis that?"
"Sent the child to the nursery and his wife to
the kitchen, and governed the people himself. Now,
the great mass of the people ought to send those
panders to vice,' howling to their kennels, and gov-
em themselves. Then, aiid not till then, will they
cease to have an undue influence."
During the campaign, Alban, Lahm and Sike~
had been, more or less, all the time, under the in-

fluency of liquor; now, that the election was over,
determined as soon as the season of rejoicing had
passed, to fall back into the habit of occasional
dram drinking; but they found it more difficult to
return than go forward.
Numerous, ratification meetings, as they called
them,' were held in different parts of the Congres'.
signal District, to all of which Alban and Lahm
had an invitation, and to each invitation they in-
variably responded, by being personally present,
unless the meetings conflicted so a~ to render at-
tendaiice upon all impossible. At these convivial
meetings, Alban-Judge of the Judicial Circuit,
composed of the same counties which made up the
Congressiowd District,----took the lead, and the
members of the bar followed. On some of these
occasions might have been, seen Judges and Law~
yers, office-holders and expectant, editors and
deacons, grey-headed men and boys, united in tiw
mazes of bacchanalian revelry.
Two considerations would seem to argue against
attempting a portrait of these drunken rows. The
public is already too familiar with such scenes;
and again, the bar-the van-gua~d of very many
virtues-might not admire the picture.
Sikes, now out of office and out of employment,
and sure of one customer, at least, started a small
doggery, and commenced selling spirituous liquors,
which he kept Li operation, for some two months,
while his 'habits of dissipation became more and


~52            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                        THE UNJUST JUDGE.          Q53

4
more inveterate. At length his stock of liquors
began to lessen, and for the purpose of recruiting
them he procured a horse and wftgon and visited
a neighboring distillery. After tasting the qual-
ity of a barrel of whiskey, by taking several
heavy potations from the bung of the cask by
means of a rye straw, and satisfied it was the
article he wanted, loaded it upon his wagon.
True to the instincts of degradation, he must
now sponge a drink or two more by way of trying
several other casks, he professed to think he might
want to buy within the lapse of a few weeks. He
accordingly had recourse to the straw, which he
used freely upon three or four different kegs, and
until he reeled; when he staggered to his wagon,
and with the aid of the good Samaritan who pre-
sided over the destinies of the still-house, he got
in along side his barrel and began beating hi~
horse, which evinced more restiveness than com-
ported with the distiller's notions of Sikes' safety.
There was now another draft upon the magna-
nimity of this manufacturer of death. The horse
must be quieted, which he accordingly did, and
oi~r hero of the straw went, not on his way rejoic-'
ing, but alternately hallooing, nodding and whip-.
ping his animal, which was possessed of more
sense than his poor besotted driver, or at least he
had the merit of sobriety. He had not proceeded
far, when, in passing down a slight declivity hi~
wagon struck a stump and turned over; after

I

rearing and pitching for some time, the horse
finally drew the vehicle off him, but his spirit had
departed.
The spirits in the barrel had also departed.~
The head of the cask as well as Sikes, had been
driven in, and his lifeless body was swimming in
alcohol.
At this moment one of the grocer's best custom-
ers came up to the scene of disaster, and like thc
bee when its empire is invaded and its comb
broken, unmindful of the wreck and ruin around
it, sips the honey. Staggering along he raised
his hands, and in horror exclaimed, "Oh! what a
pity to have it wasted, and knmediately got down
or rather fell down, and guzzled from a puddle the
liquor crimsoned with the blood of its recent
owner.
The natural conclusion, and one to which a so-
ber man would be likely to arrive, is, that so sad
an accident, induced by intemperance, would have
caused Alban and Lahm to pause in their mad
career and reflect. It is said that the soldier upon
the battle field is made more furious by each addi-
tional man who falls around him. And such wa~
the effect of Sikes' misfortune upon Lahm and
Alban. While it is easy to account for the in-
creased madness under the circumstances to which
we have alluded, of the infuriated soldier, it is be~
yond the ken of philosophy to give a good and
sufficientt reason for the impetus the tragical end

I

252

253


254

THE UNJUsT JUDGE.

of Sikes gave to the kindred vice of Alban and
Lahim-
Lalim now began to neglect his professional as
well as his ofiicial business, ,and to spend nearly
all his time lounging about groceries and hotels,
and thus he would spend weeks without appear-
ig to know or care what it mast necessarily lead
to inthe end.
" Mr. Lalim," said a personal and political
friend whom he chanced to meet at one of his pla-
ces of resort, " you must quit drinking or y ou will
go over the dam."
" Well," replied Lahm, " then I shall probably
go over."
" Why should you," exclaimed shis friend.
"I doubt very much whether I could quit if I
were to make the effort."
"To doubt, is to be damned," said his friend,
" and," continued he, " there are many things
more difficult of accomplishment than abandon-
ing your cups, and to the performance ofl whch if
I should say you were unequal, you woulthnI
under estimated your abilities. ' What man has
don mncn do,"' I learned in the nursery. You
ando it if you think so. But so long as you are
suspended between hope and fear, reformation is
impossible. You must draw the sword and trow
awythe scabbard. You must cross the river and
cut down the bridge over which you have passed,

I

THlE UNJUsT JUDGE.

1

255

after the manner of Gen. Houston at San Jacinto,
and then you can fight as becomes a man."
Lahmi interrupted him by remarking that decla-
mation and action were as different as could be
well imagined. That it was easy to. theorize and
formi plans for life, but to carry out those plans, to
reduce them to practice, was entirely another and
more difficult matter. " You,'' continued he,
knoww but little about the force of this habit.--
' When I would do good evil is present with me."'
And then many there are who instead of reaching
forth the helping hand, are pushing me deeperiand
yet deeper into the slough. Men who are not hin-
pelled by this irresistible habit to drink, are fre-
quently encouraging me and extending invitations
without its occuri-ing to them that I need their aid
and assistance to avoid the pit falls that are await-
ing my slow but certain approach-that lead me
to the haunts of dissipation and fix the habit
more and more indelibly."
"Regard such men as your most deadly ene-
mies, and stand aloof from them," said his friend,
-" That," replied Lahm, " is easier to say than
"No, more easily," exclaimed his friend, when
your reputation, your all, your very life, temporal
and eternal, is at stake. Continue this drinking
tw o months and you are a dead man. Formerly a
man could drink for very many years and still
have some constitution left; but the drugged and

I

I


256

'rir~ UNJUST JUDGE.

adulterated liquors of the present day do their
work of death with accelerated facility."
"I know it all," returned Lahm.
"And yet," said his friend, "you will stand in-
active while fiery billows roll beneath."
"How am I to extinguish them," enquired Lahm.
"How! why, be'a man."
" I once was a man," mournfully said Lahm,
"but"-
"But what ;" quickly exclaimed his friend.-
"Cross the Rubicon, and destroy all hope of re-
treat, and be a man again."
"No," said Lahm, "it is now too late to talk
about crossing; I am ~already jn the heart of the
enemies' country~~.~surroundedsuPphes cut ofF-
am Without hope. I can now only capitulate ;"
and added, "you are now where I once was-a
moderate drinker. Let me admonish y6u to stop
where you are, lest you become what I am. Three
years ago there was less probability of my be-
coming a miserable drunken bloat, than there is
now of your being such. God may have hardened
my heart and weakened my resolution for the pur-
pose of giving you, and others the benefit of my
example."
"God has had less to do with it than the enemy
Qf souls," said his friend. "You appear to have
profited little from the fate of Sibley, Sikes, and,
others."

I,

I

~IIE UNJUST JUDGE.

257

"And," replied Lalim, "you may be benefited
as little by mine. 'Let him who thinketh he stand..
~th take heed lest he fall."'
his friend, considering further exp ostulation
useless, left him to his apparent doom.
Lalirn continued for several weeks to drink, and
the only change observed was that he grew worse
and more hopeless, lie now determined to visit
his relatives living in another State, and was soon
on his way. Previous to leaving he provided him-
self with a quantity of brandy, some of which. he
tarried in his carpet sack, to protect him against
the contingency of passing through a temperance
t'egion, where the article could not be had. Hay-
it with him, he drank freely, but succeeded in
caching his former home, where the entreaties,
tears and prayers of a pious mother were alike
expended upon him in vain. He remained a few
days, but it appeared less like home than upon
~hy former visit. It had ceased to be "home
~xveet home" His friends were even more kind
~han usual. Every little attention and every kind
act that could possibly contribute to his happiness
and comfort, were done with the object so appa-
rent that he could not but observe it. In the midst
of this kindness a sense of degradation and un-
worthiness would steal across his mind and mar
his peace.
Finding himself unable to enjoy home, he pre-
pared to return. As he was about to leave, his
17


258            TIW UNJUST JUDGE
aged and infirm mother took him by the hand and
said, while the tears like rain, fell from her almost
sightless eyes, 'My son, promise me before
heaven, you will quit drinking."
No, mother !" he replied, " I can't." I would
break the pledge if I made it. You taught me in
infancy the baseness of falsehood, and I hax e
never forgotten it'."
Would to God." sobbed the mother, " I had
taught you an additional lesson-the folly of drink-
ing."
Lahui was too much affected to make any re-
ply. his mother again said, " Won't you make
the promise.
Lahm, too full of emotion to answer, shook hi5
head. " Then," continued the mother, I shall
never see you again; never, never, shall I again
behold my son !" and returned to the house in an
agony of grief, while he stepped into the stage
and was oil'.
lie now aPpeal'ed~ to hhve cut himself loose
from all sense of shame; though several genteel
ladies were in the coach, he would in their pres-
ence take from his pocket his flask, and drink free-
ly several times in the course of an hour; and
continued this course until some time the next
day, xvhcn he was seized with a fit of delirium trc-
incus; and while in this condition he would ex~
claim in the language of David, "Deliver me 0
my God! from the hand of the wicked."

And again he would say, " Deliver me not over'
to the will of my enemies !" " Save, oh God! or
I pQrish."
Moderating, he would utter all kinds of incon-
PTuitics~dj5t~ connected and broken sentences-
when suddenly he rose, opened the, door of the
coach and sprang out, and went howling into a
dense forest of many thousand acres, owned by
distant speculators; while the coach p~'o~eeded on
to the next station some three miles farther, where
the people were notified of xvhat had happened.
During the afternoon of the same day a rigid
search was instituted, and incessantlx~ kept up
until he was found, on the third day after the o&amp;
currdnce with his lower extremities in a small
rivulet, with his head and upper part of the body
upon the sloaping bank, lifeless. He was convey-
ed to the station where his trunk had been left;
UJ)On opening which, letters from his mother dis.
dIose(l the vcsidence of his parents, to which place
his body was sent. his trunk contained money
~uflicient to defray the expense.
A few days after the above occurrence, the Her-
ald, a newspaper which our readers will recollect,
came out at the time of the Jones' difhcultv ~igains~
the teinperaiice tuovement, and charged that it
was a trieI~ ~f the opposite Pohtical party br the
purpose of getting' into power; in a long, leading
~ticle, noticed the death of Lahm-a Portion ol
which we wHI copy to show with what facility a

TIlE UNJUSTT JUDGE.            25P

269


260            TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                         TIlE UNJUST JUDGE,         261

political editor can blow hot and cold under a
slight change of circumstances:
"lit is with feelings of the deepest pain and re-
gret that we are called upon to record the (lemise
of our worthy fellow citizen, Mr. Lahm,
'When sorrows come, they come not sin4e SIhCS
But ill battalions,"'
Within the last few months we have noticed
the death of Sibley, Sikes, and several others less
conspicuous, and now that of Mr. Lahm-all from
the same cause, this accursed intemperance. It
appears to love a shining mark. It is striking
down the best men among us. There are scores
of men in this community who have not yet fallen
victims, that is, they are not dead, but so fat' as
every thing but breathing is concerned, they are
to all intents and purposes, dead. They are dead
to their own welfare-dead to the interests and
well-being of their families--dead to society--
(lead, many of them, to shame, and must soon
stop breathing."
Is there no remedy, ' no balm in (Ailea A?72 if
this destructive vice is not arrested,
1\ext age will see
A race more profligate than we."
It is not in the nature of this vice to be sta-
tionary. It must either advance or i'etrogi'ade. -
Then the matter is narrowed down to this-shall
it go forward or backward? We cannot as an hon-
est man and a good citizen, both of which we (IC-

sire to be, advocate its advancement; therefore we
must be in favor of its retrogression. We cannot
be for and against it at the same time. And hence
to-day, this very hour, we nail the Maine Liquor
Law flag to our mast, and 'sink or swim, live or
die, survive or perish,' we are for the Law."


CHAPTER XXI.
An open foe may prove a curse,
But a pretended friend is worse.--- Gay.
The influences had taken' a most happy turn,
and it was now sanguinely hoped by the philan-~
thropic, that through the magic of this sudden
change, Judge Alban would b~ saved from what
had previously appeared to be his inevitable doom,
a drunkard's grave and a drunkard's eternity.-
But there xvas little hope for a man whose bosom
did not contain one generous impulse, one noble
sentiment, one manly feeling; who was a stran-
ger to virtuous indignation, whose heart beat with
its every throb in unison with vice and immo-
rality; the springs to whose policy were1 oppress~
sion, cowardice, hypocrisy, ingratitude and decep-
tion! He heeded not the influences around him,
nor the solemn warnings which seemed to speak
from the graves of Sibley, Sikes and Lalim, and
no sooner was he out of one excess than he
plunged into another and still another, until scenes
of debauchery and dissipation seemed to be the~
only element in which he could "breathe, move
or have his being."
A few' weeks after the death of Lahm, Alban
was loafing in the office of a lawyer whom we

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.               2O3~

4

Thall designate Yellow Coat, a cognoman he re-
ceived from wearing a yellow jeans coat, for the
(louble purpose of making more palpable his con-
tempt for the aristocracy and that of winning
upon the affections of the dear people, whom he
constantly studied to deceive by the wiles, arts
and appliances of the heartless demagogue.
"Judge," said Yellow Coat, "are you aware
that a bill has already passed the United States
Senate which contelnl)lates a division of our State
into two Districts ?"
Judge Alban, stupefied from the excesses of the
previous night was in a state of semi-repose, par-
tially opened his eyes and drawled out-
What is that you are talk-talking about-
about there ?"
Our State is about to be divided and we will
have two United States' Courts instead of one,"
repeated Yellow Coat.
"Would it benefit you or myself any, if there
xyere twenty new courts," responded Alban.
"I am not so certain," said Yellow Coat, " but
one might benefit us essentially."
"how !" exclaimed Alban. "' If I can be taught
to believe that it may result to my benefit, then I.
Mhall feel an interest in the movement; if not, of
course I shall be indifferent. My motto is touch
nothing unless it pay well."
That's my rule of action," said Yellow Coat;
look out for number one, and let every body else


'264            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                               TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.           '265

take care of himself. I3ut then might you noL
Judge, by some management procure an appoint-
ment ?"
"To what ?" exclaimed Aihan.
"Why, to a Judgeship, and that too, for life,"
said Yellow Coat.
"That life feature I like," said Alban. " This
being dependent upon the vulgar herd for posi-
tion, constantly living in dread of their disappro-
bation- and this crawling, creeping and cringing
to the mass for favor, is, and always has been
greatly at war with my feelings; but then, I sup-
pose, if the district should be made, the bench is
entirely beyond my reach."
" Why should it be ?" said Yellow Coat; "cci'-
tainly with judicious management you may se~
cure the appointment."
"Do you think so ?" said Alban.
"I most assuredly do," replied Yellow Coat.
"But," continued Judge Alban, "who is to
manage this matter? We are remote from Wash-
ington City, and in order that it be reduced to~ a
certainty some person must go there immediateiv~
and every appliance within the range, ay, be-
yond th6 range of convenience, brought to bear
upon the President and the appointing power, that
is necessary to effect the object, and that will re~
quire time and money."

I

204

All that will be wholly unnecessary," replied
Yellow Coat. "It can all be accomplished by
writing to a few friends in Congress."
~r1~his thing of writing to friends about matter~
in which you and not they are interested, is a bu-
siness in which I have long since ceased to have
any confidence," exclaimed Alban.
Oh, you nmst second the movement by money.
Money is the fulcrum, the lever, and the whole
moving power. That must accompany our CXCI'-
tion at the Proper time," said Yellow Coat; "and
now, Judge, continued he, "we are so made and
constituted that we must learn every thing we
know-we can know nothing by intuition. Now.
while you have been acquainting yourself with the
occult mysteries of science, and fathoming the
profundities of ancient and modern legal lore, you
have neglected the less abstruse science of politi-
cal intriguing', and you must therefore place your-,
self completely under the control and manage-
mont of myself and a very few other friends; we
will keep you constantly advised as to the part
you must play in the drama. It will probably be
necessary for you to procure the recommendation
of the Governor, Legislature, and other State ofll-
cers."
"You have been my friend-my warm and de-
voted friend-while Lahni and other scamps have
been down upon me; I will therefore leave the
matter wholly in your hands," said the Judge.

265


THE UNJUST JUDGE.
Certainly, certainly," said Yellow Coat ; I will
however make one suggestion, and that is, you
must have some of the nccd!ui ready for ernergeu~
cies.
"'I will endeavor to," rc~)lied the Judge.
A few days after the above conversation, Yel-
low Coat c~lIed upon the Judge fbr the nccdful,
saying he was upon his way to the city of C-.-~-,
for the purpose of obtaining the signatures of the
dignitaries of the State-procured his money and
proceeded upoli his way.
But quite as soon as Yellow Coat could reach
the seat of government and return, we find him
with Judge Alban, saying he could not procure
an endorsement of his honor the Judge, until he
would first resign the office he held, after which
they would all join in recommending the Judge to
the favorable notice of the President and Cabinet.
Immediately after Yellow Coat met the Judge,
and before he communicated to him his want of
success , lie swaggered and ~h~ugged up his should-
ers with an affected involuntary shiver, and with a
look and blink peculiarly his own, as he threw a
massive quantity of' the weed from his cadaverous
countenance, invited the Judge across the street
to liquor up, to see which, was to comprehend it
and its objects; but with accuracy and justness to
describe the indications of perfidy evinced in his
swagger, in his countenance and demeanor, would

~CIIE UNJUST JUDGE.
require more than the pen of an Irving, or thc
pencil of a LJogarth.
After Yellow Coat and the Judge had been qui-~
etly scaled in a genteel Saloon and drank a bran-
dy smash, Yellow Coat~ without informing' the
Jud~'e of his bad luck, but upon the contrary con-
stantly avoiding any allusion to the matter, called
in a hot whiskey punch---still trembling or affect.
lug to shiver from the cold. Nor was it until the
whiskey j)uncli was swallowed, and the Judge in
turn called in the liquor two or three times, that
the tremulous Yellow Coat ventured to mention
to the drunken dignitary the unfavorable rel)ort ol'
his mission, taking care to preface it with the re-
mark that he would immediately return to the seat
of government upon his errand of kindness.
Alban by no means sanguine when sober, would
not at this time have given a - groat to have had
success insured, without ceremony or further in-
quiry wrote out his resi0'nati on, a~d requested the
governor to appoint Esq. Yellow Coat his sue-
c es sot'.
Yellow Coat, now with the resignation and r~-
commendation of Alban in his pocket, forthwith
4arted for the seat of government, from whence
in due time lie returned with his own commission,
but without any very satisfactory account of the ac-
tion of the Governor, the Legi~lature and other
State officers, in relation to the appointment of
Judge Alban.


268            THE UNJUST JUDOE~

Soon after Yellow Coat's return, Alban called
at his office without finding him in, and then at
his residence, but he sent the judge word lie was
not at home. Finally, howeVer, the Judge met
him; but, as neither Alb~n nor Yellow Coat has
reported the result of that interview, we are una-
ble to give it to our readers; but this much we do
know--Judge Alban called upon Yellow Coat, of
ten; indeed, every day, and sometimes several
times in the course of a day; we don't know cer-
tainly, but suppose to listen to the delusive and
hypocritical professions of old Yellow Coat, until
finally the new made judge, as we have been in-
formed, and verily believe, grew impatient under
the annoyance, when he is said to have made this
laconic remark-
Go home, Alban, and be patient! This thiW
can't be accomplished in a day, nor can it be done
in weeks."
At this meeting', Alban, we are told, was sober,
and as a sense of his true situal;ion stole over his
demented mind he fixed his eye-wacant from va-
grancy-upon the new Judge, and exclaimed with
a tremulous voice, in tones that wrung tears from
the eyes of the callous old Xr~llow Coat-"EI 14
Brute!"
It was not long until the news went through the
town, as upon the wings of the wind, that old Yel-
low Coat was in tears!

"In tears! Yellow Coat in tears!" was the ex-
('lamation caught up and carried from one to an-
other, until the adjoining hills reverberated the
echo, "Old Yellow Coat is in tears !" All was
cornmotion-somc running in one direction, some
in another, rendering collisions unavoidable. Con-
sternation sat upon every countenance. While
some had old Yellow Coat in one kind of catas-
trophe, others had him in a different trouble; none
Seemed to know what xvas the true character of
the difficulty.
What on earth is the matter ?" inquired one.
Old Yellow Coat is crying !" shouted several
voices.
An old gentleman clasped his hands, cocked
his sinister eye, threw his head to one side, and
said, " Young gentlemen. you ought not to truffle
with 01(1 age.'~
ri~r1le as preaching!" was the reply.
"Is this wurid, indeed, coming to an end !" cx-
eiainie(l the 01(1 man.
"What state of things could have drawn tears
from Old Yellow Coat ?" cried others.
Some great public misfortune ! " ejaculated
some 01~C.
"No," responded another, "No public calamity
could move old Yaller Coat. It must be some pri-
vate less. If the world were on fire and he and
his interest secure, he could set amjd the 'wreck

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.         269


N.

27 0

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

of matter and the crush of wor1d~,' with entire
composure, nor shed a tear."
"Judge Alban was now out of' office, without
hope of again occupying an official station.
' Deserted in his utmost need
By those his former bounty fed."
"He returned home, now that he was betrayed
by one in whom he reposed unbounded confidence
-threw himself upon a lounge and wept as if his
head had been .a fountain of tears. " I am," so-
liloquized he, " now retiring where I shall have the
pleasure of remaining for the balance of my life.
There is some gratification in knowing
" I am not now in fortune's power;
He that is dOXYU can sink no lower."
~' Oh! what a wrong I have suffered at the hands
of that Yellow Coat! ' What a consummation of
~e1fishness! What a scored wretch! How little
of the 'milk of human kindness' is in his composi-
tion! How applicable the lines of Byron to
Southey-
"Thy love is last, thy friendship is all a cheat;
Thy smiles hypocrisy, thy words deceit."
His professions of friendship, now that I have had
an opportunity of testing them, have proven empty.
I ought to have discovered, long ago, that he wa~
hypocritical, for never has he been known to have
electioncered for any individual but once, and that
he regretted, saving old Yellow Coat, who is his
favorite candidate and for whom he plays a strong
hand and makes vigorous exertiofl.

TIlE UNJUST JUl~GE.

~271

"I have frequently been told that.Lahm, poor
fellow, whom Lye treated very harshly, and actually
drove from the bar and probably into dissipation,
was a better man-had more heart and head, too.
than this selfish, cunning, deceptious "Yellow
Coat; yet I have never, until now, believed it. Cer-
tain it is I've not studied my true interest in allow-
ing that conglomeration of every vice to rule and
control me upon t~e bench. I now clearly per-
ceive what I ough~ to have as clearly seen long'
since, that all his aims and purposes were pro-
foundly selfish; and, that in extending to him so
much favor, I have repelled and disgusted his
brethren of the ,1)ar. and, as a consequence, am
iiow friendless.
Had I but. ser~'d my God ~ ith half I ho zeal
I served my king, he would not in mine a~e
have left inc naked.
What am I to do? What can I do? (Jo bp~cI~ to
the bar and there be amply paid, by those I have
oppressed, with compound interest? This retribu-
tive jUsticO, they have already been talking about,
I must confess I do not likel I can not-I will not
return to the bar."
Misery is the legitiinat~ fruit of folly and crime,
and Alban was now as miserable as his previous
life had been foolish and criminal. lie had passed
through a little over two-thirds of his three score
and ten, and had treasured nothing but error and


TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

sin-had a worn out body-a premature old age-
a desolate soul, inhabited alone by ruthless remorse.
His indiscretions, his follies, and his crimes, now
arrayed themselves like frightful spectres before
the bar of his conscience, and he sighed for the
*    privilege of again enjoying the innocent and happy
(lays of childhood and youth, that he might again
start upon the path of integrity, and he exclaimed,
"If youthful blood were again coursing my veins-
if manly vigor was again nAme-if again I was
embarking upon the ocean of life, I would write
upon my chart-ay, all over my chart-in con-
spicuous characters, 'Avoid the flatterer, as you
would the touch of contagion,' for, in the honi~d
accents of flattery is the poison of the deadly upas.
From the flattery and professions of old Yellow
Coat, I had supposed he would have gone to the
very door of perdition, and incurred the risk of
making good his retreat without having old Pluto
foreclose his mortgage upon him, if thereby he
could have conferred upon me even a slight favor.
But alas, alas! how has his conduct comported
with his pretensions.~~
But a new element of excitement was about to
pervade the thoughts, feelings, affections, head,
and heart, of Judge Albaii. As he closed the
above soliloquy he rose from the lounge and seated
himself by the table, upon which the mail-boy had
just thrown a number of letters, papers, and peri~
odicals? from which he picked up a paper, and the

4
-f

TIlE UNJUST JUL~OE.      273
first thing upon which. his eye rested, was an arti.~
cle from which we copy the following:
"A writer in the True American asks the im-
portant question, 'Have we a Stuart among us ;"'
and then gives an account of the discovery of a
claimant to the British Monarchy in the person of
one Charles Edward Stuart, Compte D'A1bani..~
It ~s claimed the Compte is a son of Cardinal
York who died in eighteen hundred and seven,
when it was supposed the issue of James IT of
England was extinct."
As Judge Alban closed the above paragraph,
he sprang to his feet and exclaimed, "Ye gods!
that's better than perfidious friends and Judge-
ships hat can't be reached.
"I'll show Charles Edward that there are other
St4wciHs who have claims upon Windsor Castle,
and who will take a hand in determining the ques
tion whether 'a stranger fills the Stuart Throne"'
"Now, the only thing which dampens my ardor
in this struggle for a throne is, first, the terrible
picture drawn of the Stuart family, by Dickens, in
his history of England; and, secondly, the want
of the means necessary to enter the arena and
oust Queen Vie. But that is all counteracted by
the contemplation of the figure I shall make upon
the British throne, among the dignitaries of that
vast empire, upon whose dominions the sun never
sets..
18.


274           TilE UNJUST JUnGE.

"My dignity and splendid personal appearance
would there be appreciated; I would not there be
liable to have my dignity insulted by such puppies
as Lalini, nor my rights invaded by such treach-
erous wretches as Old Yellow Coat ;" and he
laughed outright: but it is said by our informant
to have been a most sinister giggle; anything but
a real, joyous laugh, directly from the regions ol
a virtuous heart.
"To whom can I go and consult as to my fu-
ture plans of operation; would to God I now had
a friend in whom I could repose implicit confi-
(lence. But where on this broad earth shall I find
a friend I Until this base perfidy of Yellow Coat, I
could have said-
C Thou art the 'friend
To wliiaa the shadows of long years extend "'
but now, alas! sad, bitter experience compels mc
to take up the song-
'The friendships of the world arc oft
Confed'racieS in vice, or leagues in pleasure."
"Yellow Coat can now have no interest in my
future welfare. No, he cares not who occupies
the 'throne of the Stuarts."' It would afford hint
quite as much pleasure to see the present incum-
bent there, as to see me (and my posterity, I had
almost said, but alas! I shall leave noiie)-occu-
pying the inheritance of, our ancestry. The ~lys-
ian bowers of his hope are ten anted alone by
self. had I possessed sagacity sufficient to have

U

I

made that discovery years ago, then would he not
have grown beyond his natural dimension~.
"What a swaggering, all things to all mien, dem-
agogue, he is. Among Catholics he would acknowb
edge the apostolic succession of the Pope. Among
Protestants, he would call that church dignitary,
A
Anti-Christ.
IL&amp;mong  o~ammedans, he would
sing hosaunas to the Prophet. Among Mormons,
he would deify Joe Smith-.---having direct reference
In every thing he would say and do, to self-
aggrandize~en~*"
While Alban was in the utmost doubt and per~
plexity as to the source from which he was to de-
rive the material aid, a wag from the Emerald isle
who had regarded the Judge for some time as the
butt of ridicule, having had an intimatiort of Al.
ban's new born aspirations, met him upon the
street and informed him he had recently received
money from Scotland, a small portion of an
immense estate, which he inherited upon the de-
mise of a wealthy old uncle; and that he- w~s
then attempting to negotiate with ai~ attorney to
accompany him to that country. The Judge could
wait no longer, but exclaimed, "'Squire Edward
M'Gugin, I am just- the man you want; I have no.
dJubt the boys will be after you for this job, but
you will need an oldhead."
"Yes," replied M'Gugin, as he abruptly left
Alban, "I have -numerous applications."
18~

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

}


Judge Alban immediately returned home in
great haste, and informed his wife that upon that
evening he intended to have Mr. and Mrs. M'Gu-.
gin to tea.
"What!" replied his wife, "Ed., the Irish dray-
man."
"Yes, certainly ;" answered the Judge.
"Why, pray," said Mrs. Alban, "what fruak
has come upon you, now! You have always re-
garded such men as mere ~mrfs-as few removes
from the animal."
"Well, well," said the Judge, " I am aware of
all that; but I want to use Ed. a little. He has a
matter I wish to secure, and a number of young
lawyers are after him. It's true they are mere
boys, yet Ed. may allow himself to be persuaded
to retain theiii."
"But you bound from one extreme to its oppo-
site, with wonderful facility," said Mrs. Alban.-
"You usually look upon what you call the vulgar,
with a kind of unutterable contempt, and now
you are about to hug one of the most repulsive to
your bosom."
"It wo~id be very gr~i.teful to my feelings if you
possessed ~. "wonderful' facility" for regarding
my wishes."
"What business of importance can that vaga-
bond Ed. have to excite the emulation of legal
geiitlernen ~" replied Mrs. Alban.

ii

M6

27t1              TEU~ ~ThJUST 2UDG~.                                                        UNJUST JUD~.               277

Humpli I wife, that shows how little women
know about matters and things. Why, Ed. is
probably the wealthiest man in torn. An old un-
cle in Scotland has left him an immense fortune."
"Immense nonsense-" retorted Mrs. Alban..-.-
"Ed. is not worth a dime, and you will find that it
~s an immense hoax he is practicing upon your
honor ;" and added, by way of mollifying his feel-
ings, "I believe you are partial to the title, 'Your
Honor"
"Oh! fudge," said the Judge, "let me have
some paper, pen, and ink."
As soon as he was furnished with the materials
for writing, he wrote the following note:
"Mr. and Mrs. Alban's compliments to Mr. and
Mrs. M'Gugin, with the hope that they may have
~ pleasure of their society this evening, at seven
o'clock."
The Judge now folded very neatly, the note,
upon the back of which, in a delicate hand, he
wrote "Edward iVI'Gugin, Esq., and Lady."
"Will you please to take Mrs. Alban out of
your note? What pray, do I know about Mr. and
Mrs. M'~ugim~?"
"What is written, is written," said the Judge.
"Why, Judge," said his wife, "this thing will
get out, and even the boys upon the street will be
~quaking at you. Let me urge you this once to
hearken to my counsel."

277


278

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

" Will you allow me to do as I think advisable,
in the premises ?" said the Judge.
" You will, whether I allow you or not," respon-
ded Mrs. Alban ; but added, " I am unaccustomed
to waiting upon such cattle."
"Consult my interest this once," said Alban,
" and you~ may live to see the day when you will
acknowledge my wisdom and sagacity."
" I will live to see you laughed .at extensively,
and that will be about to-morrow or the following
day, at farthest, as the bubble will soon burst."
The Judge unwilling to trust his note in the
hands of a servant, under the control of Mrs. Al-
ban, lest she might have imparted infection and
want of confidence-carried it himself.
When the Judge reached a small hovel in the
suburbs of the town, where he supposed M'Gugin
resided, he knocked for admission. Soon the door
opened, and a female not remarkable for the neat-
ness of her person, was upon the threshold.
The Judge bowed and said, " Have I the pleas-
ure of being~ in the presence of Mrs. M'Gugin ;"
and added, "is the 'Squire in?"
"Who did you ask for ?"
" For the 'Squire," replied Alban.
" I don't know a man of that name."
" I want to see Mr. Edward M'Gugin."
".Oh ! said she, " you w ant to see Ned, I sup-
pose."

I

I

THE UNJUST JUDGE.

279

" Yes, Madam, I wish to see 'Squire M'Gugin,"
very blandly replied the Judge.
Edward had inducted his wife into the myste-
ries 'of the hoax, and instructed her to say to
Judge Alban that he had just stepped into the
bank for the purpose of depositing fifteen or twen-
ty thousand dollars-which she .did with great
adroitness.
" Then," exclaimred the Juidge, " the 'Squire has
drawn a considerable portion of his legacy."
* nya small amount," was the ready response.
" Sufficient to pay- expenses in getting the bal-
ance," exclaimed Alban, as he threw the note of
invitation down at her feet, and broke at the top
of his speed like a tiger upon a fresh trail of
blood, for "'Squire M'Gugin" and the bank. But
before he came up to "'Squire M'Gugin," the
bubble had burst, though not until a score or more,
(and many of them young lawyers,) had been let
into the secret and who had been watching his
movements upon the street, enjoyed a fine
laugh at the expense of the unfortunate digni-
tary.
Flattery being the oniy avenue through which
Alban could be approached, he fell into the too
common error of estimating others by his own ca-
pacity for the enjoyment of this nostrum of fools
and villains ; and hence he invariably attempted
to accomplish his purposes through a free and libe-
ral use of the article which banished him at once


2380

THE UNJUsT JUDGE-.

from the society of honest, sensible, refined and
well-bred men, and threw him exclusively among
kindred spirits, where he could enjoy his favorite
aliment without stint or measure.
To the sins which, as we have seen, covered
Alban as with a mantle, he added others which
involved the most sacred inteifest of man as well
as woman, and would have enabled him to pass
par excellence in the regions of Mecca and Salt
Lake.
The throne of the Stuarts which excited him
when first it engrossed his thoughts, had now less
attractions to this distinguished branch of a dis-
tinguished but fallen house, than the flavor of a
mint julep, or the fumes of a whiskey punch.
But the avenger of virtue and injured innocence
was in his wake, and close upon his heels, and he
was smitten after the manner of Jehorum. As
lhe staggered home from a scene of midnight de-
bauchery, upon a steep embankment, thrown
across a ravine, not far distant, and leading to lhis
residence, " falling headlong he burst asunder in
the midst, and all his bowels gushed .out.."
-While we detain a nioment to drop the sympa-
thetic tear over the ashes of our departed hero,
we must be permitted to enter our most solemn
protest against the indiscriminate censure society
attaches to deviations from the path of virtue,
while it seldom stops to investigate the circum-
stances which surround the miserable victim of

3

2$1

vice and folly. If closely scrutinized by the eye
of wisdom as well as charity, how often would
this unfortunate class of our fellow men, deserve
aind receive, instead of our censure and condemna-
tion, our pity and heartfelt sympathy. Could we
-probe the incipient stages of vice and folly as
well as the more confirmed and inexorable crimi-
nals, we would- find connected with them many,
often very many, extenuating circumstances.
We have great confidence in the potency of
circumstances in shaping the destiny, politically,
intellectually, pecuniarily and morally, of man-
kind ;,and those circumstances would occasion-
ally seem to be beyond the control of the indi-
vidual, by which his happiness and' character are
moulded.
Oppression engenders hatred in the oppressed;
therefore Alban had no associates among the
younger members of the bar. His want of judi-
cial courtesy, ay, more, his judicial tyranny, had
driven him entirely from the society of the bar,
except Yellow Coat, for whose tender mercies he
had at this time but little relish. The allurements
of an enchanted home were not his ; no interest,
ing gambols of young innocents, invited 'him from
scenes of dissipation and debauchery to the bliss
of the domestic hearth. Excluded from the com-
munion of those between whom and himself there
was some congeniality-without an opportunity
of exercising the more amiable feelings of the hu-

a

THE UNJUST JUDGE.


2~2            THE UNJTJST JUDGE.
man heart around the altar of domestic lial)pi-
ness, he was in a favorable condition to fall in
with the proposalsof vice: hence for several con-
secutive weeks previous to the death of Alban, he
was reeling and staggering from  one doggery te                              CHAPTER
another.
She bore hc
So gently, that the lii
Bends not so easily it
Jones returned home from
where we left him, and havii
was, for days and days in 51
under the influence of liquor-
and stagger; but, notwitlista
aromatics, Mrs. Jones could it
his breath, the slightest mdi
quite unconscious of her skill
"A little word in kindn
A smile, or a syrupatl
has often healed the hea
And the poet might i~ave add
heart that is wedded to vice a
her course. She had resolved
kindness.
His habits now became sha
frequently twelve, one, and 1
would find him in haunts of di
he made his appearance at hi
would offer some fictitious apo
which wa~ always received ~

XXII'
rself
ly on the stalk
s dewey head.
I'ercwal.
the disgraceful scene
~g now some leisure,
accession, constantly
-seldom so as to reel
ending his free use of
tvariably detect upon
ilgence, yet he was
ess spoken,
Living tear,
rt that's droken."
ed, "And saved the
ud folly. Such was
[to win him back by
LmefUllly irregular-
Iwo, in the morning,
~sipation; but when
s unhappy home, he
logy for his absence,
vith a smile and in


THE UNJUST JUDGE.

kindness by his wife, who never retired to rest un~
til after his return. It soon began to make inroads
upon her health, which was perceived by her hus-
band, always tender and indulgent, who insisted
she should retire at her usual time.
" And have you come cold, and perhaps hungry~"
said she. "I could not think of that."
Coming home one morning, he saw the light in
the sitting room, as usual, and curious to know how
his wife whiled away the tedious hours, softly step
ped to a window and, through the crevices in the
shutters, he saw her in apparent deep devotion,
but could hear nothing except an occasional sob.
After some moments, he walked up to the door and
entered, near which she met him as usual, all kind~
ness, without evincing the slightest dissatisfaction,
or trouble.
Jones took a seat near the fire, in a more thought-
ful mood than he had, for some time previously,
evinced. Presently, ~a w arm cup of tea was
upon the stand and placed before him. It wa~
more than he could endure without emotion, which
he chose not to exhibit, and accordingly left the
room to give vent to his pent up feelings. After
some fifteen minutes he returned, but partook
sparingly of the tea, and soon retired.
The following evening, Judge Jones remained at
home till about eight, when he took his bat and
remarked to his wife, he would try to return sooner
that evening than formerly; for which she thanked

him very kindly. Instead of going down street he
took his old position at the window.
Soon after his departure, she opened the family
bible and read a chapter or two, and then kneeled
down, and again he beheld her engaged in prayer.
She was not far from the window, where he stood
a silent spectator of the (to him) imposing scene.
lie could distinctly hear her, in a tremulous voicc~
but with great pathos, say-
"Lord lay not this sin to his charge-' snatch
him as a brand from the burning.' Restore hini
to sobriety. Thou hast endowed him with much
1~leiit. Oh God, forbid that he bury it."
He could only catch an occasional sentence,
~oxne of which we have given above; but he was
conquered, lie stepped upon the threshold of the
door and entered, after an absence of iiearly an
hour. She met him with a countenance beaming-
with joy, and exclaimed, "Why, my dear) you are
home early this evenino-"
"Not so early as I 6hall be tomorrow evening,"
he replied; and continued, "It is all over. You
have conquered me, and I am myself again."
She threw her arms around him, and cried aloud
from very joy.
"I am," exclaimed Judge Jones, "from this mo~
inent, a 'Maine Law' man, come ~vhat may."
They took a seat by the fire, and while she wa~
i~ extacics he was sombre and thoughtful. In a

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.         285


286            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                            TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

few moments he turned and looked her full in the
face, as he said, "You knew it all, then ?"
She smiled as she nodded, and said: "Gray tel1~
us-
"Where ignorance is bliss 'tis folly to be wise."
He quickly replied, that a greater man than
Gr~y has said-
"He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty."
With a sweet voice and a smiling countenance,
she said, "The wjse man from whom you have
just quoted, says, 'Wine is a mocker, strong drink
is raging, and whosoever is deceived thereby is not
wise.' I knew you could not long be deceived.
XTOU have too much mind for that."
"But," returned he, "why 4id you not scold, get
mad, and smash things?"
"That would have done no ~ood, and might
have done much harm."
"I think that is likely-your course was the
better."
She was well acquainted with the Judge's vir~
tues as well as his imperfection's. Now that he h~d
determined to quit, she felt he could not be driven
from his purpose; and, therefore, conversed with
him freely, and ventured to enquirer how the sud~
den change came.
He replied that he was seldom ignorant of what
was going o&amp;around him.
She did n~A frilly comprehend him, and inquired
how she was to understand him.

286

287

lIe replied, "You have saved me." And, after
musing a fexv moments, he exclaimed, "what a
fate I have escaped! "When I look back, now
that I am sober, and not excited, how I shudder.
Oh, what a perilous race I' was running! How
few that enter upon that course, stop short of the
goal-ruin and death."
"Since your unfortunate Hamlin trouble, I have
been, during my every waking hour, (and my
slee
ping ones have been few) brooding over your
dangers, but I have never despaired of your ulti-
mate return to virtue.
"'low much I am indebted to you."
No," said she; "but on the contrary, hdw
many ten thousand obligations I am under to you,
my natural protector, for turning your back upon
a most seductive vice, w~iich, when persisted in,
must end in wreck and ruin."
Mrs. Jones, that night, retired to pleasant slum..
hers without any dread of the future.
Next morning who should make his appearance
but Leblond? Neither knew of the change that
had taken place in the other. Each, however soon
({iscovere(I that his friend was perfectly sober, and
free from the influence of liquor, and it was what
could not have been said of either for many months
previous to thefr recent reformation.
Our two friends were soon engaged in conver-
sation upon the fate of Sikes, Lahm, Sibley ahd
Alban. When alluding to Sibley, Leblond was


4
I
I

I

affected to tears, and paid a handsome tribute to
his memory.
"I," said Leblond, "am now in easy circum~tan-
ces, and expect to be wealthy at no distant period;
but if as poor as Lazarus, I would be bound by
every principle of right, and of honor, to support
his destitute family. I now have the two boys in
college, and there they shall remain at my expense
until their education is complete, after which I in-
tend taking them into my office, and give them
each a thorough legal education; and that is prob-
ably more than the unfortunate father could have
done, h~d he lived. That angel that hovered
about his path and was instrumental in his refor-
mation when in prison, but who dropped the cur-
tain upon his earthly career, is now in the Lunatic
Asylum, also at my cost."
"Why," said Jones, now choked with emotion,
and relieved only by a shower of tears, "Leblond,
that is manly."
"It i~ naked justice to the wretched family whom
I have robbed of their protector; and, could I have
persuaded myself there was no God, no heaven,
no hell, no retribution nor happiness beyond the
grave-~till, I would have done what I have done.
Yet, if it is true philosophy and good morality, that
the moral turpitude of the act is estimated by the
intention, then, indeed, am I guiltless of the blood
of poor Sibley. It is true that the man who wreck-
lesely discharges hg rifle into a crowd, and kills,

288           TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.                                      TI! E UNJUST JUDGE.        289

288

289

without intending so to do, is guilty of murder-
this is probably good law as well as good sense.
Upon that principle, I would have been responsible
had I been sober when I went to his office."
"But, brother Leblond," said the Judge," drunk-
enness does not excuse crime."
"Then," said Leblond, "I am guilty of murder;
and, had liamlin been executed, which he would
have been but for the interference of Providence,
you would have occupied a no less enviable posi-
tton.
"XYhile I have been more guilty than you," re-
plied Judge Jones, "I have been more fortunate."
"Judge, I sometime, and of late particularly,
feel very much like quarreling with that principle
of law that refuses to make drunkenness an ex-
cuse for crime."
"It works hardship occasionally," responded
Jones; "But, perhaps, not more often, nor greater
than other general rules. Suppose the general
rule was established that drunkenness could be
urged as a defence. Then, sir, all a man would
have to do, if he meditated a deadly injury against
his neighbor, would be to get as drunk as bacehus,
or even to affect drunkenness; and under the rule
he could with impunity, commit any and all sorts
of crime and outrage."
"had the public known as much about the
cause that led to the terrible fate of poor Sibley
~is I did, it is quite probable Imight have been
19


THE UNJUST JUDGE.         291

290           THE UNJUST JUDGE.

tried in Judge Lynch's Court. It would have made
my crime none the less to have made it public,
while it might have crippled me in my efforts to
repair the injury. But there has not been siuce
the occurrence a day, i~or scarcely an hour in the
day, when the remembrance of this melancholy
event has not come rushing upon my thoughts
with the fearful effects of the desolating tornado;
and did I not possess an iron will and the power
of saying, 'thus far and no farther, and here let
thy proud waves be stayed,' I should have been
overwhelmed, and met a more tragical cud than
the unfortunate victim of my folly."
"You have," said Jones, "done all that could
have been done; and you will allow me to con-
gratulate you upon your ability to drive back the
unbidden thoughts that would have haunted me
till the ~'latest syllable of recorded time,' had
Ilamlin been executed. I also think you acted
wisely, concealing your agency in the fatal tra~-
gedy of the lamented Sibley, from the public, as
it could have done no good and might have done
great harm. But," continued Jones, "I believe I
wonld have dreaded .Judge Alban's Court quite as
much as LyncVs."
~ By no means;" immediately replied Leblond-.
Aiban-Judge Alban and myself were upon
most intiina~ terms of friendship at that time.-
It is true that since I have become, as II fancy, a
better man, he is down upon me."

U

That would have afforded you no protection,"
said Jones. "A man is always unsafe in the
hands of a Court, more under the control of ~pre-
,j udice and passion, whims and caprices, than
sound legal principles or morale worth; and by the
way, I have heard, it seems to me, that the old
bloat was dead."
Yes, he is," said Leblond, "and his death was
tragical-nearly as much so as Sibley's, Sikes,' or
Lahtn's. Lie had become much more corrupt than
any of them."
I knew," said Jones, "very little of Sheriff
$ikcs; but from what I have seen of Sibley and
Lahm, I would think them men of considerable
talent, and disposed generally in all their acts and
doings to be governed .by the strictest rules of
i~ight.-whiJc I have never had any confidence
in Alban, and certainly less, since he got Jewett
out of his trouble. elATe love the treason but hate
the traitor."
"We should tread lightly upon the ashes of' the
dead,' is a sentiment that wells up from the bot-
tom of all hearts of ordinary sensibility, yet be-
tween us, Judge, who are alike acquainted with
the frailties, imperfections and vices of Aiban, he
had not only his weak, very weak points, but he
was corrupt; perhaps not exactly corrupt with
iiialice pr~1pcrssc, but from the force of passion and
prejudice; he usually manifested great reckless~

11


292           THE UNJUST JUDGI~

ness and every body and every thing that came in
the way of those prejudices, were sacrificed.
"Justice sooner or later overtakes men of that
character-it is sometimes slow but always cer~
tam."
"To this tardiness," "responded Leblond,
"you and I are equally indebted for time and
space for reformation."
Dinner was now announced, and our friends
repaired to the dining room and found a table
which thirty-six hours previously vvouhl have been
groaning under the weight of the first quality of~
every description of choice ljquors, hut now
graced with cold water only.

*
CHAPTER XXIII.
The brave tn~n i~ not he who feels no fear;
IFor that were stupid and irrational;
But lie whose noble soul its fears subdues,
Aild bravely dares the danger naLure shrinks from.
Joanna Bailie.
"We've had a general time of rejoicing," said
Mrs. Jones, while the unbidden tear gathered and
stole down her face, now flushed with emotion.
"The rejoicing is of rather a recent date," re-
marked the Judge; but with sombre brow and
strong ~pb~sis, ad~kd-'~' better late than never.'
The ladies," continued he, "hive much more pen-
etration than we gentlemen have been in the habit
of ascribing to theim It might be well for you to
look to this matter, as you are already in the liv-
menial trap."
"Not in," replied Leblond, yet I must confess I
may find it exceedingly difficult to bxeak away
from its influence, if it was thought desirable."
"'F hat 'if it was thought desirable,' is a most
interesting and important provision," said Mrs.
Jones.
Leblond, feeling that he occupied tender ground,
changed the conversation by remarking, that he,
too, felt considerable interest in this r~jo~eing, to


which an allusion had been made. "I would in-
fer," continued Leblond, addressing himself to Mrs.
Jones, "that the Judge supposed these sprees in
which we have been indulging were sub rosa so far
as you were concerned?"
Remarkable for her great prudence as well as
her sterling good sense, Mrs. Jones looked at the
Judge, and significantly smiled, but made no fuv-~
ther reply.
"Mr. Leblond," said the Judge, "these wives
are excellent in their place. But~for them and their
happy influences upon man and his destiny, we
should have, very soon, an entirely different state
of things."
Leblond, so recently from a visit to Amelia,
could have said pretty things, strong things, and
tender things, but was afraid to trust himself upon
the subject of wives, and their excellences, lest he
might say soft things; looked wise, but was silent.
Mrs. Jones' keen eye, and sensitive P~eling', dis-
covered Leblond's embarrassment, and she sought
to relieve him by remarking that Wives were like
husbands-good, better, best; and probably, bad,
worse, worst-and sugge stedto him the importance
of having his the best, as the marriage relation
would have an important influence upon all his
relations in life, for good or evil, unless he should
happen to be so unfortunate as to marry a nega-
tive character-a kind of nondiscript-one who
has not sufficient 'force of character to make a

294

mark of ahy description. She now discovered that
he was still more embarrassed than before.
The Judge came to her aid, by remarking, that
one who could niake no ntark was certainly more
harmless than one who makes a strong mark, and
averse to his interest.
Table talk over, Jones and Leblond entered the
drawing room.
Leblond," said the Judge, " what about this
Maine Law,' this coming winter ?"
"I am iii for it," said Leblond, "until its passage
is affected, aftei~ which the law shall be executed
in my neighborhood at least."
"That gives me unmixed pleasure," said the
Judge, both simultaneously rising and grasping
each other's hand with a cordiality they had never
before manifested.
"IBy what means have you been converted from
the error of your ways ?" said Leblond.
"My wife has done iL" said the Judge.
What blessed beings these wives are!" ex-
claimed Leblond. "i[ am indebted to the same
influence for a change which, a few weeks since,
I little dreamed of."
"What," quickly replied the Judge, "you are
not married?"
"No," stammered Leblond, " but 1 expect to be."
"That is sufficient,'~ said the Judge, "I under-
stand it

295

294           THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                       THE UNJUST JUDGE.         295


29t3           THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                            THE UNJUST JUDGE.

"Ndw," said Judge Jones, "this Maine LaiV
must be passed by the next legislature; and ,'~
continued he, "it can be accomplished, if prop-
erly taken hold of. I for one am willing to devote
one year's toil to it !"
"No man has greater atonements to make than
myself' for past offenees," said Leblond; "but I
confess I scarcely know where to commence or
how to begin."
Leblond was a good lawyer, well acquainted
pith his profc~sion, hut,
To veer and tack and steer a cause
Against the weather.gage of laws,"
was one thing, while managing a warm contest in
which a great moral question was involved, was a
different matter; and one in which he had no ex-
perience, yet he had resolved to make his mark
without regard to the many friends it might alie~~
nate.
"Leblond," said the Judge, "we must be
"heroes iu the strife."
"Ay, and martyrs too, if necessary," replied
Leblond.
"That sacrifice will not be required," said the
Judge, "unless I have failed to comprehend the
indications. The masses are beginning to think,
and think correctly upon this subject, and all we
have to do is to procure the enactment of the law
and the people will sustain it."

I

"The people seldom disregard their tru-e inter-
ests; and if they think candidly in relation to this
matter they will unUoubtedly sustain it upon that
ground," said Leblond. "But what are your tac-
tics, Judge ?"
"We must observe system in this fight. It will
be a fierce one, and if we engage in it without
first marshaling our strength and drilling our for-
ces, we arc vanquished; rely upon it!
"My plan is to secure the press, a most potent
and powerful influence; and that must be effected
at as early a date as possible; and immediately
after the meeting of the legislature we must be~
siege the State Capitol, and infest the law making'
power until they capitulate upon our own terms.
"Another idea has just occurred to me, "con-
tinued the Judge; "female influence must be
brought to bear upon this question. Our wives
must accompany us to the city. Do you under-
stand that? Mr. Leblond. Kames tells us that
'Gijef as well as joy is infectious."
"Now, we must infect the city with our sentiment.
Sympathy is quite as contagious as grief or joy.
rfei~perance men and women must be thrown into
the city until they are as numerous as the locusts
of Egypt: an excitement must be got up and the
thing carried by storm."
~~rrhat looks well as a theory," said Leblond
but will it work well in practice. Where arc


I

298

TUE UNJUST JUDGE.

those swarms to come from, with which you con-
template infesting the city."
"IL have an extensive acquaintance among the
members of the bar in each county in the State,
and they are the active men-the thinking men
and the speaking men-the men who give tone
and character to public sentiment-can set them
all in a blaze. And they will shape the course of
the public prints in their respective localities, and
we will soon have a vast army in the field 'armed
and equipped according to law,"' said the Judge,
with great fervor.
"That will do," replied Leblond. "But would
it not be well to write immediately to Jiamlin,
Jewett, Barber, and some twenty other active law-
yers in different parts of the State, and secure
their, immediate co-op oration?"
"No," returned the Judge," "we must see them
personally."
Our two friends next morning, in different di-
rections, wei~e on their mission of "peace and
good will to men."
In about ten days after they separatede, Jones
received the following note:
M~ DEAR JONES :-Your plan is working like a
charm. I find no difficulty in enlisting the editors
generally, and the lawyers almost universally.-
The clergymen are, with scarcely an exception,
engaged in this reformation. A few demagogues,
with here and there a reckless editor, are attempt-

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

299

ing to create an unfavorable impression; but
their discordant notes will be lost in the wailing
of the storm we shall raise.
Keep the ball in motion, and let me hear from
~rou soon.
I am very truly yours,
L. LEBLOND."
The election was now over; and hence the ob-
jeet of Jones and Leblond in traveling the State
was to create an excitement they could bring to
hear upon the Legislative body, soon to meet at
time seat of government.
Jones had seen Ilamlin and had a long inter-
view with him; and the day after Jones and Ham-
un separated, Jewett and the Senator started-
~~ne east and the other west, animated with the
hope that the days of the fell monster, intempe-
iance, were numbered.
Leblond in company with Barber, spent some
three weeks in passing from city to city, and from
town to town. They made no speeches, but qui-
etly pursued their way through different parts of
the State, securing as th~y went along, the bar and
the press, with the promise of flaming editorials
and heavy delegations to the State Capitol, du-
ring the session of the Legislature.
Leblond resolved on having Amelia witness his
efforts at the State Capitol, took up his line of


300                 TIIJ~ UNJUST JUDGJ~.

march for Mr. Leonard's, where a few days after
his arrival, his marriage was solemnized amidst
great pomp and splendor, and was soon thereafter
on hi~ way to the seat of government, where he
expected to meet Jewett, Barber, Judge Jones and
numerous other distinguished legal gentlemen and
prominent politicians from different parts of the
State.

ChAPTER XX1V.
Tune your harps,
Yo angels to that sound; and thou my heart,
Make room to entertaja my flowing joy t~-Dr~de;z.
Two or three days previous to the meeting of
the Legislature, Judge Jones repaired to the seat
of government, xvhere he had the gratification of
finding Jewett, I3aiber, L&amp;blond, Hamlin, Tomp-
~~ins and numerous other members of the bar, edi~
tore and supporters of the Maine Law, clad in ar~
mor for the coming fight.
A meeting of the friends of the measure was
privately called, to which Judge Jones submitted
a bill he had previously prepared with great care.
In some respects it xvas more stringent, and in
oilers it was less so, than the Maine Law.
After some discussion the bill was adopted with
an additional provision, which made the third in-
fraction of the law, a Penitentiary offence; and
in case the Prosecuting Attorney neglected or re-
fused vigorously to prosecute the same, it was
made the duty of the Judge of the Court, to dis-
miss him from office-appoint another in his
stead, and to strike his name from the list of pro-
secuting attorneys; and a laciws upon the part of


aj-

TUE UNJUST JUDGE.

the Jude, was made sufficient cause for impeach..
ment.
The bill thus prepared and amtmdcd, was take3~
by Tompkins with the promise that at the earliest
possible moment after the organization of the
Senate, he would introduce it and urge its pas-
sage, with all the ability he possessed.
No sooner had the Senate elected its officers
and appointed the committees, than Tompkins
rose in his place in the Senate, and offered the
Bill, by which the Senate was taken by surpri~e~
and quite a sensation produced.
Tompkins was a leading spirit in that body, and
at the head of a Political party which it was sup~
posed would generally oppose the passage of the
Bill; and hence it struck terror in the ranks of
the enemies of the measure.
At the period of which we are now writing, the
city was filled with strangers beyond precedent;
and while the temperance cause had scores upon
scores of the most prominent members of the bar
from different portions of the State, the whiskey
influence had got up no inconsiderable outside
pressure.
The distillers, grocers and retailers of ai~1eut
spirits, in every nook and corner of~ the ~iate.
were immediately after the introduction of the
Bill, notified of their danger, and very soon had
their representatives in the city. Their calling
was in jeopardy, and they had spilled out their

I

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.

303

money like water, resolved that the work of death
should go on.
Jt was soon ascertained that the Bill was in lit-
~le danger in the Senate, yet it was desirable that
it should pass that body by as large a majority as
possible, for the prestige it would have upon the
lower house, where the great fight would be made.
At Judge Jones' room as well as at Leblond~s,
a caucus was held every few evenings, where, the
iwoper time for bringing up the measure in the
Senate, was discussed and finally determined.
Now, that the period for discussing the Bill in
the Senate was fixed, Ilamlin, Tompkins and five
or six other prominent members of the Senate.
of each of the political parti Cs, began vigorously
to prepare for~ the conflict.
While Ilamlin was to argue the constitution~
ahity of the "Law," Tompkins, who was distin-
guished for his rhetorical as well as oratorical
powers, was designated to make a popular speech,
in which all the evils upon domestic happiness,
upon social life, upon the body politic, upon our
hopes beyond the tomb, were to pass in revision.
Several other accomplished and powerful advo-
cates of the Bill, were detailed to enter the fight,
armed with wit, sarcasm, declamation or argu-
nient at such time and place in the progress of
~he debate, as exigencies might seem to require.
The day at length arrived for the discussion
and three or four hours before the time fixed by


the Senate to assemble, the hail of the Senate
was filled to its utmost capacity.
As Leblond and Judge Jones, now recognized
as the great champions of the Law," entered arm
in arm, the ladies in the gallery began and kept
up for several minutes, a waving of their white
handkerchiefs. "Leblond," said the Judge, "we
must be content with being silent spectators of all
this glory."
"I," returned Leblond, " would give the guber-
natorial chair, if 1 owned it, for six years, ye''
"added he, "I would exchange a seat in the Uni-
ted States Senate for twelve years, for an oppor-
tunity of meeting these champions of Rum in this
debate."
"Rave you seen an article which appears in the
Forum, printed at C-~," said Leblond.
"No, I have not," replied the Judge.
Leblond took the paper from his pocket and
handed it to Jones, who read as follows:
"We have been watching the signs in the po-
litical horizon since the election, with more than
ordinary interest, and have come to the conclu-
sion there is every where in the State, exhibiting
itself a deliberate, yet a quiet and unobtrusive
purpose, to enact the Maine Law; certainly none
the less dangerous on account of its being co-
vertly gotten up, and clandestinely managed.
"Indeed, when our political enemies have sought
to get the advantage of us, they have invariably

304             TIlE UNJUST JIJ~GE.                                           TIlE UNJUST JUIX~E.           305

304

bcen arch, insidious, honied and hypocritical.-
"Our political opponents can have from principle,
no strong partialities for the Maine Law; nor
can we see how they can consistently support ~
teniperance measure of any kind.
"No party, of which we have any knowledge
as a party, has ever been more grossly addicted
to intemperance, than the party now evidently try.~
lug to ride this last and most contemptible of all
hobbies, yet they are raising their hands in holy
horror at the evils of intemperance, manifestly for
the purpose of gaining' the political ascendency.
"Now, we call upon our friends in the Legisla-
tur~, and out of it, to rally and save the cherished
principles of Jefferson and Jackson from the rude
assault ofjthe Qoth and Vandal politician, alike
reckless of principle and the interest of the
masses. Fain would these intriguing, unprinci-
pled politicians, make the people believe that our
party was a vast army of drunkards; and this ob-
viously for the purpose of drawing largely upon
the credulity, if not upon the gullibility, of our
party.
"We would say to our friends in the Legisla-
lure, stand firm, nor allow your influence to be
given in favor of any measure that would infringe
upon the sovereign rights of citizens.
"We expect a few will leave us upon this ques~
lion; yet enough will remain to defeat the meas~
ure, and give us the power iz~ the State for afl
20

305


3060

THlE UNJUST JUDGE-.

ii
11
4
Ii

I

307

time to come ; while those who remain will be re-
liable-can be depended upon in the most trying
emergencies.
" We claim always to -have been in favor of
temperance, and still are ; and yet we oppose the
Maine La w for the reason that we believe it is at
this time thrust into politics by designing knaves,
for the purpose of dividing and conquering ; and
the men who are bawling temperance the loudest
care the least for the interests of outraged, suffer-
ing humanity."
After reading the abovc article, Judge Jones very
coolly remarked, that it impecached the head as
well as the heart of the editor, and was well cal-
culated to destroy confidence, as well in his integ-
rity as in his ability, and impair any influence he
might have been able, from the position he occu-
pied, to have exerted over his fellow men.
" That. thought," said Leblond, "1bas never
sufficiently moulded the actions and shaped the
course, of our public men-too many of them
seek a gratification of their feelings or a present
interest, at the cost of future usefulness and dis-
tinction."
" There are," replied Judge Jones, " so many
methods by which public men lose caste, and are
reduced to a level with the people, that it is by no
means strange that prominent public characters
find it a most arduous task, for any considerable
length of time, to retain public faVor."

it
d
h
~1

p

THE UNJUST- JUDGE.

" Ah !" responded Leblond, " as we look down
the declivity of entombed ages, what mournful
proofs meet our vision, of the fearful fickleness of
public favor. In ancient times, to become a great
master or benefactor of our race, was to court a
violent death, often by the axe of State, but more
frequently by the private dagger."
" Modern times," answered the Judge, "have
only improved upon the usages and cruelties of
remote and barberous ages. When a master spi-
rit arose and became troublesome to the ignorant
.masses, in battling their prejudices, crushing and
demolishing forever their errors and false theories,
they decapitated him to make room for less men.
" But in these days of Christian illumination
and benevolence-amid the effulgence of science
and the progress of arts, civilization and refine-
ment-as soon as a man renders himself conspi-
cuous and distinguished for valuable service ren-
dered the State, whether in the cabinet or in the
field-envy, jealousy, hate, ambition and desire
for place-commission their emissaries and send
them forth to hurt and destroy, and soon a great
statesman, philosopher and philanthropist, lies
festering in his wounds, equally unable to live and
unable to die."
"I think too," exclaimed Leblond, "that there
was more humanity in the barbarity that struck
off their heads and placed their victims beyond
the reach of .physical ills, than there is in the


TH1~ UNJUST JUDGZ~

modern method, by which they are rendered inca~~
pable of accomplishing anything, and yet com~
polled to drag out a miserable existence: for cer-
tainly a shipwrecked politician and broken down
statesman, enjoy fewer of the sweets and endure
more of the bitters of life, than any other descrip-
tion of character. But we have wandered," con-
tinued Leblond, "from the point, and now to re~-
turn to that article; what will be the effect of it ?'~
" One effect will be," said Judge Jones, " to
read you and myself out of the party."
And if that, then more than that," replied
Leblond. "All of our political party who attended
and took an active part in the recent tempe-
rance convention held in this city. The largest
convention ever held here for any purpose; and a
large majority of those in attendance 'belonged
to our political party, and some of the most dis-
tinguished men in the State; and yet that little
petty editor of a little petty country paper, will
take upon himself the responsibility of attempt-
ing to ostracise us all. It is a most fortunate cir-
cumstance for us that he does not wield a power-
ful pen."
"If he had been worshiping at the shrine of
Bacehus for a series of years," said Jones, "that
kind of squib would not be unaccountable; but I
am told he is a sober man."

p

308

THE T~NJUST JUDGE.        309
"Oh! yes," replied Leblond, quite a temperate
man, and what is more, a deacon in one of the
churches of his village."
"That can't be possible," exclaimed Jones.-..
Leblondyou must be in error. A man kneel and
pray for the coming o~ Emanuel's Kingdom, and
at the same time pander to this vice, which like
the mighty oak, towers above all the sins of our
race, is showing its horrid and gigantic head-the
mother of all vice-the head and front of old Dia-
boles', army. There is in this too much incon-
sistency for even fallen and erring humanity."-
It is so," said Leblond. "I am well acquainted
with him."
"Well," exclaimed Jones, "I suppose he con-
tributes occasionally for nhissionary purposes ?"
"I believe he does," answered Leblond.
"Well," continued Jones, "we ought to raise a
fund for the purpose of having a few hundreds of
the Chinese imported into this country as tempe-
rance missionaries. They refused, you will rec-
ollect, to have the British opium crammed down
their throats, until the superiority of English sci-
ence and military tactics had desolated their coast
cities, ~nd slaughtered them with a barbarity and
cruelty without a parallel in modern warfare.-
And yet opium eating is attended with less fear-
ful consequences than dram drinking."
"But," exclaimed Leblond, "even admitting
that one of the great political parties has been


~1o           THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                      TUE UNJUST JUDGE.          311

distinguished more than the other for 'bacehana-
han revelry,' is that any reason why it should not
reform? upon the contrary, is it not a~ sufficient
reason if no other existed, for its taking the lead
in removing the rock upon which it split ?"
"From my observation," said Judge Jones,
"drunkenness is confined to neither party, nor
does it prevail to a greater extent in one than
another."
ilamlin now obtained the floor and proceeded
to address the Senate.
He commenced by saying: Though lie had
from early boyhood to the present moment been
an advocate of temperance~ yet the evils of that
monster vice had fallen upon him with most crush-
ing weight, but that his purpose at that time was
simply to remove doubts which he understood ex-
isted in certain quarters, as to the constitutionality
of the measure.
He went on to remark, that it was strange how
any well informed mind since 1813, could doubt
upon that question. "in that year," continued
he, "Congress passed an act entitled 'An act
for laying duties on licenses to retailers of wines,
spirituous liquors and foreign merchandise,' which
contained a provision he read as follows:
"Provided always, that n-o license shall be
granted to any person to sell wines, distilled spir~
ituous liquors or merchandise, who is prohibited
therefrom to sell the same by the States"

I

310

And maintained with great force and power,
that it was clearly and manifestly implied in the
passage of the law, that a State had the right to
prohibit the manufacture, sale or barter of any
article which was detrimental to the public web
fare; and insisted with equal clearness and
poxxTem' that the control of the internal trade was
reserved to the States.
But," "continued he, "all doubts must be
forever dissipated, since the decisions of the Su-
preme Court of the United States made in 1845,
omi three different cases, one from the State of
Mass achusetts-..--prohibiting the sale of spirituous
liquors in less quantities than twenty-eight gab
Ions-one from New hampshire, and one from
Rhode island, of a similar character."
ITo here read the remarks of Chief Justice Ta-
1C, as reported in S howard; p. 504.
Every State may regulate its own internal
traffic, according to its own judgment and upon
its own. views of the interest and well being of its
citizens. If any State deems the retail and inter-
nal traffic in ardent spirits injurious to its citizens,
and calculated to produce idleness, ruin and de-
bauchery, I see nothing in the Constitution of the
United States to prevent it from regulating gand
restraining the traffic, or from prohibiting it alto-
gether, if it thinks proper."
"In these cases, the Chief Justice had the con-
currence of each of his ~ssociat~s upon the

311


~112                 THE UNJUST JUDG~.

TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.          313

I

bench," continued Hamlin, "from the remarks of
whom, with your indulgence, I will read."
"I admit," says Judge Catron, "as inevitable,
that if the State has the power of restraint by li~.
cense to any extent, she has the discretionary
power to Judge of its limits, and may go to the
length of prohibiting sales altogether."
Judge M'Lean holds the following:
"Merchandise from a port where contagious
disease prevails, being liable to communicate dis~
case, may be excluded, and in certain cases may
he thrown into the sea. This comes In direct con~
hot with the regulations of commerce, and yet es~
sential to preservation, and exists necessarily in
every organized community. It is, indeed, the
law of nature, and is possessed by man in his in-
dividual capacity."
~' Again," continued Jlamlin, "Judge Crier
says:
"Quarantine laws which protect public health,
compel mere commercial regulations to submit to
their control. They restrain the liberty of the
passengers; they operate on the ship which is the
instrument of commerce, and its officers and crew,
the agents of navigation. They seize the infected
cargo and cast it overboard. All these things are
done, not from power which the State assumes to
regulate or interfere with the regulations of Con~
gross, but because the police laws for the preven-
tion of crime ~nd the protection of the public

welfare, must of necessity have full and free ope
ration according to the exigency which requires
their interference. If a loss of revenue should
accrue to the United States from a diminished
consumption of ardent spirits, she would be the
gainer a thousand fold in the health and happi-
ness of the city."'
"WhilQ another of the Judges holds the fob
lowing language," continued Hamlin:
"It is not necessary to array the appalling sta-
tistics of misery, pauperism, and crime, which have
their origin in the use and abuse of ardent spirits.
The police power, which is exclusively vested in
the State, is alone competent to the correction of
these great evils; and all measures of restraint or
prohibition necessary to effect that purpose, are
within the scope of that authority. All laws for
the restraint or punishment of crime, or the pres-
ervation of the public peace, health, or morals are
from their very nature of primary iniportance and
lie at the foundation of social existence. They are
for the protection of life and liberty, and necessarily
compel all laws on subjects of secondary impor-
tance, which relate only to property, convenience,
or luxury, to recede when they come in contact or
collision.
"The question, then," continued Hamlin, "has
been adjudicated and settled affirmatively, by the
highest judicial power of the land. If it was an
open question, who could doubt how it must ne~


THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                         THE UNJUST JUDGE.         315

I

cessarily be settled? The framers of the coflsti-
tution never contemplated taking away from the
citizen, the natural right of self preservation."
As soon as Hamlin closed, a' young man from
the Southwestern~ portion of the State, rose and
talked flippantly, for some thirty minutes, about
the immense amount of money his constituents had
invested in the manufacture and traffic of spiritu-
ous liquors, and wound up with an attempt at
rhetorical flourish, in which he claimed, that there
was, in the entire State, about ten millions of dol-
lars invested in the business of manufacturing and
vending alcoholic drinks, which would seek other
investments, and for the-most part out of the State,
in the event of the passage of the law.
Tompkins now arose, amid the waving of hand-
kerchiefs and deafening applause, which lasted for
several minutes in spite of the efforts of the Pres-
ident and officers of the Senate. Order being re-
stored, he commenced by portraying
"In eloqueiice that charms and burns,
Startles, sooths, and wins by turns,"
the inroads upon domestic happiness made by this
great curse. After dwelling upon this branch of
his subject for about forty minutes, during which
eyes "unused to the melting mood" were seen to
weep, he delineated its baleful effects upon social
life, in a most graphic and masterly manner.
~cNo~r with a giant's might,
lIe heaves the ponderous thought;
Now pours the storm of eloquence
With scathiiig Ii ghtning fraught."

.1

He then, for sometime, discussed the effects of in-
temperance upon the body politic in which he
showed by startling facts and figures, that more
than nineteen-twentieths of all the crime in the
land was, caused, either directly or indirectly, by
this vice-~that it peopled our alms-houses and our
prisons, nursed litigation and engendered disease;
and wound up by following the wretched inebriate
to the regions of pandamoniurn, where the raven
wing of despair flapped in betoken of the endless
durability of his torment.
"He ceased; and solemn silence now was broke
Which reigned triumphant, while the hero spoke;
And then was heard, amid the general pause,
Quo simultaneous burst of loud applause,"

'4


THE UNJUST JUDGE.         317

CHAPTER XXV.
"It tells mc every cloud is past
Which lately seemed to lower,
That Hope bath wed young Joy at last,
And now's their nuptial hour."
The Bill having 'passed the Senate with but few
dissenting voices, was now sent to the Hall of the
House of Representatives where, it was hoped by
the enemies of the measure, it would be defeated.
At the commencement of the session of the Leg-
islature, the bill had but few friends in the lower
House, yet those were among the most active and
influential members of the body
The supporters of the "Maine Law" were quite
sanguine of ultimate success, but dreaded imme-
diate action, while the opposes of the measure
were resorting to every artifice that ingenuity could
invent to bring the matter to an issue. The daily
and hourly accessions to the "Maine Law" force,
induced them to regard delay as fraught with imi-
iient danger.
In the meantime, the aid of Barnum, Cary, Jew-
ett, and other patriarchs in the cause of temper-
~nce, was invoked and their presence hourly ex-
pected9

While our temperance friends, prompted by the
I)Cst feelings of our nature, with a patriotism and
love of their race, that would have done honor to
the sages and soldiers of our memorable revolu-
tionary struggle, were encompassing sea and land
fbr the purpose of procuring the passage of this
philanthropic measure, the whiskey influence was
by no means inactive. The emissaries of the traP
tic were hovering around, a~ numerous as the frogs
of Egypt, with neither the disposition nor ability
to meet the question fairly, and manfully discuss
its merits, but were as near omnipresent as finite
creatures could be. Now, decoying by some petty
artifice, a member of the House into a saloon, or
drinking establishment-then indulging in vulgar
witticisms at the expense of men as far their supe-
riors in every thing that enters into our estimate
of a great and good man, as virtue is above vice.
The ladies now determined to give the friends
and supporters of the "Maine Law" a free sup-
per. Conscious that many of the members of the
house could not be reached through either head
or heart, resolved to try the living argument; and
bence they were invited to be present and partake
of this sumptuous repast.
in the preparation for this festive occasion, nei-
ther pains nor expense was spared to make it a
most brilliant and magnificent affair. Instrumen-
t~d and vocal music were secured, and everything

317


TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.         819

~31S             TIlE UNJTJST JUDGE.

done to m~ake the occasion fascinating and en~
chanting.
The evening at length arrived. The largest hall
in the city had been procured, and was now
crowded to its utmost capacity.
"The glad circle roupd them yield their souls
To festive mirth and wit that knows no gall."
Speeches were the order of the day, or rather of
the night. Judge Jones was called for, and re-
sponded in thrilling eloquence, for about ten min-
utes; then Leblond, Barber, Jewett, Tompkins,
and Hamhin, each in his turn, held that vast as-
sembly spellbound with "thoughts that breathe
and words that burn."
Judge Jones now stepped upon the table and
remarked, in a deep-toned voice, heard distinctly
in the most remote corner of the hall, that he
wished to make pro fert to members of the house,
of some of the trophies of the demon alcohol,
which he had procured at considerable trouble and
expense, to grace this occasion; and hoped they
would come forward and occupy a position in
front of the table, upon which he stood. The
members were soon before him, as requested; when
he caused, by previous concert, suddenly a sliding
door to be thrown open, which exposed to the gap~
ing vi~w of the astonished and awe-stricken leg~
islators, about thirty women and children robed
in the habihirnents of the deepest mourning.

"These, my countrymen," exclaimed Jones,
"are some of the trophies of this unrelenting de-
stroyer. Behold the aged mother of Lahm! crush-
ed with the weight of grief-bending to the tomb,
deprivedd by this ruthless murderer of a prop in
her declining years, and tell me by your future
acts, whether human hearts throb in your bosoms
-~ay by your votes upon this temperance meas-
ime, whether you can feel for another's woes.-
~r~~i~ these orphan children, tender girls, from the
lisping, pratling infant, too young to comprehend
the extent of the injury society has inflicted upon
its rights, to the blooming youth, just budding into
xv oman hood. Their natural gii ardian and protec-
tor torn from them and they left unguarded and
alone to struggle with poverty and buffet the rude
waves of adversity. Behold these widows in their
weeds ! They once had kind and indulgent hus~
bands whose pleasure it was to provide for their
wants. They are now alone-and alone they aye
compel c(l to grapple with formidable difficulties
that cluster along their paths. Alban, Jenkins and
~Ahers we might name, had wise heads and manly
hearts, but in an unguarded moment the deceiver
came, and they fell victims to his wiley artifices;
and they now moulder in the cold grave,;uncon-
seious of the aggravated wrongs they have en-
tailed upon these unprotected and disconsolate fe-
males. Will you not throw the weight of your

K


THE UNJUST JUDGE.         321

320           THE UNJUST JUDGE.

official positions upon this arch deceiver and grind
him to powder."
"We will, we xviii !" exclaimed fifty voices or
more.
Leblond, from his intuitive knowledge of the
human heart, saw that this was the propitious mo-
ment, sprang upon the table, and amid sighs and
sobs adjourned the meeting, when the people slowly
* disappeared.
A council of the sachems was privately called.
immediately after the meeting dispersed; and
upon consultation and deliberation, it was thought
advisable to force the Bill through at the earliest
possible moment. Accordingly on the following
morning the Bill was called up, and. to the amaze-
ment of the friends as well as the enemies ot thc
measure, four or five of the most prominent oppo-
sers of the Maine Law, had, during the previous
evening, enlisted for the war under the "Main&amp;
banner, and were now like the prancing war steeQ
impatient for the coming conflict. Nor were they
long in suspense.
A frothy young limb of the law, from that region
of the State where distilleries were numerous and
corn in abundance, rose and said, that many milh
ions of money were invested in the State, in thr
manufacture and sale of liquors, nearly all of
which would be an entire loss if the bill passed;
and that which might be saved from the wreck
would seek investment in sister States-that corn

and rye, which were now commanding a highprice
in consequence of the-~ immense amounts used in
distilling liquors, would become a drug in our mar-
kets-that the reduction in the prices of these pro-
ducts of the farm would very materially affect the
agricultural interests, and lessen essentially the
value of the productive lands of the State; and
closed With an over wrought declamation, in which
he asserted that the ~emperance advocates in their
zeal) closed their eyes upon facts, and trampled
upon the rights of their fellow citizens.
The member. who now obtained the floor was
one of the recent converts. Tie maintained in all
the zeal of new born faith, that there was not one
half the amount invested in the manufacture and
traffic which the gentleman claimed; but insisted
if there were fifty millions, instead of five, it
would be infinitely better for the State, for society,
for religion, for education, for everything that
characterized and distinguished civilization and
refinement from barbarism and heathenish dark-
ness; that a mill-stone be hanged about its neck,
and it cast into the uttermost depths of the ocean,
than that it should be permitted to remain among
us, infecting society with vice, with indolence, and
with crime.
He argued that the money now invested in
manufacturing this fearful instrument of misery,
wretchedness and death, would readily and with
great facility, in this active, moving, restles.~ ago

320

321


of invention, seek investment in other channekr,
from which would flow blessings instead of curses,
upon society. That the thousands now made
drunken debauchees, and hence weights upon the
body politic, would be saved by this measure;
would become sober, industrious men, and their
energies would be spent in felling our forests and
draining our lands; in constructing internal im-
provements and enhancing the wealth of the
country.
"Could the gentleman," continued the speaker,
"visit one of our large cities and there witness,
~as I have, in its two or three thousand liquor gro-
ceries, the pernicious facilities furnished to thou-
sands of husbands, wives and children, who but
for these sinks of iniquity might never have
been tempted, and might have been, many of
them, among our most useful citizens: and there
see the father, and often the mother, spend in
these dens of degradation, their last dime; when.
their money is gone, then pawn the furniture of
the house, article by article, until not even the
beds upon which the family slept are left, and then
carry their own and the clothing of their children,
and pledge them for whiskey; would he not re-
lent? Would he not be in favor of putting out the
fires that feed these prolific sources of crime and
misery? We have vastly over-estimated both the
head and heart of the gentleman, if he could wit-
iie~s these scenes without pity and disgust; if

[3
- A
C
s

32'2            TIlE UNJUST JUI4GF.                                             TUE UNJUST JUDGE.             323

after seeing them, he could, in this noon of the
nineteenth century, amid a blaze of moral light
that is flashing in every direction, stand erect in
this legislative body and vote in favor of 'the per-
petuation of a vice, all the evils of which the hu~
man tongue is incapable of describing, and finite
intellect unequal to the task of comprehending
could never be known until eternity revealed
themi'
He closed by adding:
Heaven and earth will witness,
If Rome must fall, we are innocent."
Now another of the champions of alcohol rose,
and assumed the position, that to pass the Bill
would be an invasion of the rights of the citizen.
Claimed that in a state of nature man had a
right to eat, drink, wear, and in short, do what he
pleased. That the passage of the "Maine Law"
would be an infraction of one of those rights;
that citizens would not submit to an invasion of
their rights. That the time was not far distant,
if the Bill under consideration passed, when men
would undertake to restrict us as to the quality
and quantity of food we should eat; and perhaps
claim the right to say what we should, and what
we should not, wear.
This speaker was very brief, and evidently
spoke against the convictions of head and heart.
A most distinguished debater now procured
21*


ThJ~ IYNJUST JUDGE.             325

324           THE UNJUST JUDGE.

the floorand for about twohours, discussed the sub-
ject. Heclaimedthe last gentleman hadbeen most
signally unfortunate, when he urged as a reason
for the defeat of the Bill, that citizens would soon
be in danger of having their kitchen and dining
room arrangements interfered with. lie insisted
that when the general good of the whole demands
the sacrifice, the police and municipal law would
cut off any article of food, and without reference
to the value or the amount of money invested in
it. That when an epidemic or infectious disease
prevails in a city or town, any and all articles of
food, which are supposed to lend 'facilities to the
spread of the epidemic or infection, may be by
police and municipal regulations immediately de~
dared contraband gpods, however epicures-
the less thoughtless and more reckless portion of
the community, might rave. That the inherent
power existed in society to protect itself against
harm, whatever shape the wrong might assume.
That no intelligent gentleman, much less an able
jurist, would controvert the position that this was
one of the rights which could not be taken from
the citizens.
"What," exclaimed he, "would be thought of the
sanity of the individual whose house is broken
and entered by the midnight btirglar, who should
not immediately rise and defend\ his domicil and
its inmates; but would await redress by the slow
process ot the law. Would not the slaughter of

himself and family often follow in the wake of
this kind of philosophy? Does not necessity oc-
casionally require in conflagrations, the blowing
up and pulling down of whole blocks of buildings,
for the purpose of saving a city? while those en-
gaged in the work never stop to enquirer as to the
right, nor has the. right ever been questioned.
Nec~s~ity would impel the father and husband
~o repel the burglar by violence, for the safety of
his property, his wife and children. And aM like
necessity imperiously demands the destruction of
large arno unts of property in case of fire, in order
that still greater amounts m~y be saved.
"If then," continued he, "necessity is above
all law, and individual c ens can avail them- ~
selves of this necessity for the purpose of saving
themselves and their property, might it not vvith
much show of reason, be argued that individuals
have a right upon the same principle to sieze spi-
rituous liquor wherever and whenever found, and
indiscriminately destroy it? He would not insult
that body by attempting to prove the use as well
as abuse of ardent spirits, a great evil, as that
would be impeaching their intelligence~ and good
sense."
lIe argued at great length, that society was or~
ganized for mutual protection and defence. That
if society possessed not the innate right to protect
itself, then the great object and aim of its forma-
tion had not been attained. But it was conceded


(

3%6

T~IJE UNJtX ST JUDUE.

that a ch~munity had a right without regard to
law, to repel an invasion, arrest an infection, or
stop a destructive fire, at the cost of the sacrifice
of private property; and yet strange as it might
appear, men respectable in point of intellect, and
having some claims 1o morality, would stand in
their places upon that floor, and insist that the
passage of tho IBill would be an invasion of the
natural rights of the rum-seller, and the brandy
tipler, notwithstanding intoxication was entomb-
ing annually, more victims than the combined
product of war, pestilence and famine.
The charge might be regarded as uncharitable,
yet he could not resist the temptation of saying~
that those who were opposing the Bill were doing
violence~ to their conscience, while they were pan-~
dering to the selfishness of thqse ~ho were inter-
ested in manufacturing and vending spirituous
liquors.
Satisfied that he had done the subject ample
justice so far as argument was concerned, deter-
mined to reach those beyond the influence of rea~
son and logic, with declamation, of which he was
perfect master.
He claimed that christianity, which was ileav -
en's greatest boon to the human race, had been
stayed in its onward progress by the machinations
of Rum; that the march of morals in every de~
apartment had been turned back-that improve
ment in the arts and sciences had been impeded,

~tUE UNJUST JUDGE~

27

th~it the Republic of letters had been invaded by
this greatest enemy of our race, and the diadem
matchedd from the brows of the devotees of litera-
ture~ That in every age and in every country
where it was in, general use, its withering curse
rested upon the loftiest hopes of man as with a
blighting mildew.
Lie here closed in a strain of eloquence and
sublime imagery, amid a "bedlam of applause,"
with a description of the inebriate's home, and the
gloomy prospect spread out before his heart-
stricken wife and un-cared for children, that threw
some of the opposes of the measure into the
wildest paroxisms of passion.
The question was now called for, put and car~
ned, when a shout went up that well nigh shook
the pillars of the State House. IT WAS THE LAW
OF THE GREAT STATE OF


THE UNJUST JUDGE.         329

CHAPTER XXVI.
And lead us not into temptation
Bat deliver us from cvil.~Lord's Prayer.
"Ma, ma," said a sprightly girl, about seven
years of age, as she came bounding into her
mother's room, her cheeks glowing like the ruby
and her eyes flashing like beautiful gems, while
she was clapping her hands in transports of j oy;
"Pa, can't get any liquor, pa can't, he can't: I
saw him try many places; he can't get it, I know
he can't. Oh! wont we now be happy, ma
Wont we soon have shoes and good new clothes,
like Doctor Baker's little children ?"
Her mother now raised her eyes slowly from
her work for she was plying the needle with all
the energy which want impels, and coolly re-
marked; "my daughter, aint you mistaken ?"
"No, indeed, ma! I saw him go down to Jake
Infamy's grocery, and as he passed along, I
heard one gentleman ~say to another, 'will Jake
Infamy give that man liquor? If he do, he
ought to be attended to promptly, and put
through."
"And then I quietly followed him; and when he
went into the grocery, I went Just inside of the

door ~and set down behind a barrel of fish,
where neither pa nor Jake could see me. Pa.
asked fur whiskey, but the grocery keeper told
him he had none. Then pa said, 'I know you
have plenty of it; you had several barrels last
night, and he must have some; that he ha&amp;-been
a little high yesterday, and wanted some on which
to taper off."'
But Jake said he couldn't let him have any-
not a drop.
"Then pa said, 'why? hadn't I always paid
you-and here is the money.~~
"Then pa threw down on the counter three
cents, but Jake said he shouldn't have any; that
the Maine Law went into force yesterday; and
that the Maine Law men were watching him, and
would sue him and break him up, if he sold any.
Pa then asked Jake to give him one dram, but
Jake said he dare not give it away; that was just
as bad; that they would sue him quite as soon for
that as if he sold it.
"Oh! ma," said the child, "that Jake is a wicked
man," as she approached her mother more closely,
and in a half whisper, said, "he did swear such
big oaths at the Maine Law."
"Well, my dear," said the mother, "it is the
first time I have ever known him go to Infamy's
grocery with three cents and come away empty.
Lie will get liquor at some of the groceries before


330           THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                        TIlE UNJUST JUDGE.        331

uight, and come home, I fear, quite as di:unk as
usual."
"No, no," quickly retorted the little girl; "ma,
he can't get any; he went to all the groceries in
the village, and as I saw him go into the last one,
I slipped in between some boxes near the door,
and heard the grocery man tell him they had no
liquor there; but pa wanted some so bad, and the
nasty man said he vvould'nt give him a glass if it
would save his life. Was'nt that mean, ma? only
think of it, wouldn't give pa a glass to save his
life, and then, ma, you never heard how the grocery
man did swear and curse the Maine Law. Who
is the Maine Law, ma? He must be some very
good man, these wicked grocery keepers all hate
him so."
"It is not a man, my dear child, but a law."
"What is a law, ma? It must be a good law.
Didn't God make it ma
"No dear God did not make the Maine Law;
but good men who love God, and their fellow men,
made the law to prevent men from getting drunk,
and spending for liquor the money they ought to
spend for food and clothing for their families."
"Ma," said the little girl, pa will never get
drunk any more, and come home and be cross and
abuse us! He will save his money now, and he
will buy us a house, wont he, ma? Ma, maint I
then plant a honey-suckle, ajessamine and a rose,
like Hetty Smith's? don't they look sweet, ma

while she danced around the room in a delirium
of childish ~glee. Could every father wedded to
his cups, or in danger of becoming so, realize for
a moment the pleasure that filled that infant
breast at the thought of having a temperate
father-a home where the tender hand could train
and rear the plant-watch its budding and bloom-
ing into emblematic purity, would he not be less
than parental, if he did not stop, shake off the
habit, with however much inveteracy it may have
fastened itself upon him?
"Tom," said a half clad, sturdy loafer, as he
came rather hastily into a grocery, some months
previously his familiar haunt, "give us a dram,"
as he threw down three cents, the price of whis-
key sufficient to make a fool of him, and fit him
for the commission of crime of any grade.
"We don't sell here," gruffly responded Tom,
the grocery keeper.
"Quit your blasted nonsense," said George
Summers, and let me have the liquor: quick, Pve
had none for some time."
"Didn't I tell you," said Tom, " we sell none
here," more sullen than before.
"Yes," said George, "but then I know you are
lying about it."
"If you use that kind of language to me,
again," answered Tom, quite out of humor, "I


ThE UNJUST JUD(1E.                                            THE UNJUST JUDGE.            33~

will climb over the counter and break your con-
founded impudent head."
"Why," exclaimed George, "what the devil is
tlie matter with you, I never saw you so before?'
"Well," said Tom, "I'm not in a very good
humor, and don't like to be insulted."
"I did not intend to insult you, and never knew
before it was any harm to come in and ask for a
glass of liquor. It never before insulted you."
No, nor it wouldn't now," said Tom, "if it
wasn't for this infernal Maine Law, that these
cursed, hypocritical fanatics and saintly fools,
have been passing."
"Maine Law," said George, "what do you
mean ?"
"What I say, to be sure," grunted Tom.
"Do tell me; when was that passed," inquired
George.
Tom, still indoubt whether George was in good
faith or attempting to annoy him over his misfor-
tune in the liquor traffic, enquired of George where
he had been for the last six months.
It now became George's turn to lose his balance,
and rave a little, supposing Tom had, from the be-
ginning, been practif5ing a hoax upon him, said-
"It is true I have been in the work-house for the
last six month~, but I am as good a man as you.
I was sent there for getting drunk upon your liquor
~-whiskey, got from you, Sir! While I was in
prison, shut in. from the world-associated with

villains and cut-throats-living on the convict's
stinted and miserable rations, and sleeping on a
pallet of straw-familiar with creaking grates,
iron bolts, clanking, chains, a~'id the overseer's lash,
-you, sir, were happy with your family, enjoying
your liberty; while, through the influence of the
money you have obtained by robbing myself, and
other poor, unfortunate fellows, you have become
the little end of 'upper-tendum' whittled down;
and, if you don't believe it, just come over that
counter if you dare, and I'll tramp you, you coward-
ly puppy. You have desolated the home of my wife
and children-you have made me a miserable, de-
graded convict; and now you will add insult to
injury ! "-while he beat the air with his l)onderous,
great, clenched fist, as near the face of Tom as he
could get it for the counter.
The truth in the premises, now flashed upon
the mind of Tom. He discovered that George had
been in prison for six months, and during that pe-
riod the Maine Law had been passed, and the
liquor traffic had beep stopped; but George, just
out of prison, had not, as yet, learned the fact-
Tom, therefore, attempted to explain the difficulty
thus:
"George," said he," there is no occasion for un-
kind feeling between you and myself-none in the
least. You supposed I was intending to make
sport of you, while I was quite certain you knew
all about this cursed Maine Law, which I have no


334            THE UNJUST JUDGE.                                           TIlE UNJUST JTJDGE.          335

doubt John Bunyan made about the same time he
made the Pilgrim's Progress~, and was trifling alike
with my feelings and misfortunes. I am now sat~
isfied we were both mistaken. I did not know you
had been in prison."
"All right!" exclaimed George, as he took Tom
by the hand and said, "I want a little, if you have
a drop about the establishment?"
"I have not a drop, nor the hundredth part of
a drop, nor have I a vessel or cask about my store
from which you could smell your old friend, and
d-d sorry am I, too, for it."
"Well," said George, "You can tell me, I sup-
pose, where I can get the worth of these three
cents?" rattling them in the face of Tom. "I
have had these three cents six months and a few
hours. They happened to be in my pocket at the
time I was sent to the work-house. You would
have had them, Tom, long since, if the scamps up
there had let me come down town to see you."
"You will not be able to get one drop in the
city," somewhat petulantly replied Tom.
"Well, I will ;" was the quick response of George
Summers.
He immediately started; and, from grocery to
grocery, and from store to store went George, un-
til he had passed over the entire city; and finally
returned to Tom's establishment, and pulled from his
head that which bore some slight evidence of hav-
ing once been a cap---threw it down upon the coun-

-e
a

ter-~--wiped off the sweat from his his face with the
sleeve of his old coat, and exclaimed," Well, Tom;
this is a terrible state of things! the devil will
certainly get all those fanatics! If those that he
has got could only come back, occasionally, a few
of them would soon teach those here to mind their
own business; then we could get a glass when we
wished it. Well, now Tom, I dont like to walk
out home five miles, without a horn. I could stand
it, but then I have had none for six months, and
that is most too long between drains; I can get it
out where I live in some of the groceries as soon
as I reach home, that is certain.
"It is very certain you will be unable to get the
article anywhere," again gruffly rejoined Tom.
George Summers started for the village in which
his family lived; and though he had not seen nor
heard from them, nor any of them, since his incar-
ceration, he went not directly to his home, but to
a grocery where he had been accustomed to get
liquor at his pleasure, but found none-from thence
he went to every grocery and store in the village
with a like result.
"Well," said George Summers; "things aint as
they used to was, that am sartin; but I know
bravely where I can get some. Old Ben Burns
keeps the article. This devilish fanaticism can't
possibly have reached the still-house of that old
saint. It is some distance up there-let me see,
about six miles-can you stand that, George, be-


33G                T1I~ UNJUST JUDGE.

fore you see the babies? It is pretty hard, yet it
is harder to do without the liquor; so here we go."
And away started George Summers to old Ben-
jamin Burn's distillery, but when he reached the
spot where strife, contention, debauchery and crime.
from its lightest to its darkest shades-where dig-
ease, death, and damnation, had, for nearly a half
century, been manufactured-4o his great disap-
pointment, and chagrin, he found the fire had been
put out by this messenger from the throne of the
Eternal, the-~--Maine Law-which had for many
long years heated the worm that has for ages upon
ages thrown its fatal coils around fallen hum~nity.
George Summers stretched himself up-took off
his old cap-wiped with the sleeve of his old coat.
the respiration that was oozing from every pour
of his face-while he ran his fingers through the
disheveled hair that hung over a high and massive
four-head, patting the ground with his left foot he
was heard to say, "Well, this is truly a new order
of things, no whiskey in the city, no whiskey in
the village, no whiskey in the country. Even old
Vesuvius, has ceased to voinet forth its blessings
upon the poor as well as the rich man. It is now
vacated-inhabited alone by the bat and night-
hawk. I would prefer the work-house at once to
such liberty. But I'll go and see John Taite, Pete
Craft, and Jake Rex, and know what account they
have of matters and things. I guess, if they can
live without, I can." And accordingly away he

336

TILE UNJ1J~T JUDGE.
t~v cut in pursuit of his old companions in degrada-
tion; and first came up to Tait, who was a black-
~mith, and who wielded the sledge in a manner that
would have done honor to old Vulcan himself.
~Jack," said George, as he entered the shops
'~ how the old Harry do you get along these tunes.
without a little of the 'o be joyful ?"'
Very well," replied John Tait.
"Very well, eb!" rejoined George Summers, "thc~
vun must have changed very much since I knew
you. I would not give two figs for as much of this
kind of liberty as you could write in fifty declara-
tions of Independence. Our fathers fought and
bled and died in vain, that we might enjoy liber~-.
if these 01(1 blue-stockings-these ~natical Puri-~
tans-these long-faced religionists can dictate what
we shall eat and what we shall drink."
~'No," said Tait, "you can eat what you choose.
and drink what you please, provided you let that
drink alone which makes at fool of you-injures.
most sadly, yourself and family, and not unfre-~
quently your neighbors."
~'Can it be possible," exclaimed George, "that
John Taite has become one of those long-facet
~atnts-advocating the Maine Law? I reckon
Pete Craft, Jake Rex, and the other boys have all
gone over to the enemy-worse and worse," said
George Summers, while he- looked the very im~
per~onation of disappointment and vexation


33~             THE VNJUST JUDGE.                                                '~rllE UNJUST JU~G~.          339

"Yes," said Tait, "if you arc in favor of
drinking, then they are aif against you. George,
you couldn't get Pete, or Jake, or any of them, to
drink a drain for a kingdom."
"P11 bet my cap, old Vulcan," said George, "any
of them, or even yourself, could be bought with a
very small kingdom-not bigger than my p otatoc
patch."
Why," said Tait, " they are all industrious
men, comfortably living and handsomely sustain-
ing themselves and their families, sober at iir~t
from necessity, but afterwards from choice; now
educating their children and living like men, and
not like brutes."
Well," said George Summers, as he drew his
left hand two or three times over his face and
eyes, "I believe P11 go home and see how things
look there."
" I would exhort you," said Tait, "to let liquor
alone, if I did not know you couldn't get any, and
therefore you must keep sober, for the same rea~
son that myself and others did. After a time you
could not be persuaded, nor even driven back, to
your cups."
"Wife, how do you do?" said George Suinmer~,
as he entered the door of his former home.
"Why," George Summers," exclaimed his wife,
"by what accident is it you are sober ?" while
she seemed to say through every feature of her
face, "my good fellow you are done drinking, so

~ong as you live in this land of wholesome laws."
George understood her quizzical glances, and
~~eplied, "not by accident, Madam, I thank you-
but from 'sheer necessityy"
George Summers was a first class mechanist,
as soon as the question was settled that lie
~ould have no more liquor to use as a beverage,
he immediately applied for, and procured, a situ-
~tion at~good. wages, in an extensive machine
~hop of the village in which he resided; where
ho continued to work for some six or seven weeks,
when in consequence Oi breakage, George was
~for several days out of employ, and therefore re-
turned home.
While playing with his boy upon the carpet,
(for carpet as well as many other luxuries they had
procured soon after George became temperate,)
he con'anence(l laughing outright, and ~o immode-
rately as to attract the attention of Mrs. Sum-
mers, who inquired what it mcant.
"I was thinking," exclaimed George Summers,
"if I were to put on that splendid suit of black
~nd walk up into the city, as sober as a judge
ought to be, what a sensation I would produce.-
~t would make the Governor and Warden of the
prison staxe, P11 venture."
George rose from the floor, put on his Sunday
regalia, and started for the city; soon after he
reached which, he was passing the Governor of
the State, who, in conversation with some gentle-


340              TilE UNJUST ~unor~.

ThE UNJUST JLJDGPX             341

man, remarked that he had it in his power at on~
time just previous to the passage of the Maine
Law, to defeat the Bill, and he regretted that he
had not slaughtered the thing.
It sounded upon the ear of George Suinmcr~
like a voice from the haunts of crime and foB~~
nai~ery and woe ; and with the swift lunged spe~i~
of thought, he reviewed his life previous to tb~
passage of the law, and contrasted it with il~~t
portion spent in the discharge of duty and th~
service of virtuc ; while he fixed his large, pier -
cing' black eyes upon the Governor, and exclaimed,
"I'll pay your excellence 'that money very soon.
What money ?" inquired the Governor.
Wh)r, the price and cost of divers and' sundry
articles, too tedious to mention."
You talk in enigmas, George, entirely beyond
my comprehension," rejoined 'the (A overnor.
It is as plain as a pike stall', Governor, if.you
had it in your power to defeat the Maine Law.
owe you for thi.~ suit of black, for this beaver, sir,
for these boots, sir; for several' fine dresses for mx
wife, for many comforts, convenIences and eve '~
luxuries for my family; but above all, and price-
less beyond the value of rubies, the conscmousne~
that I'm a man, and my reason is constantly on
her throne, while I am not liable to do wrong t~
myself or others."
The Governor looked at George Suinumers foe
~everaI consecutive minutes, lost in the thick iaby-

rlntlis of thought, without uttering a syllable, but
finally broke the ominous silence by exclaiming
to his friend in a loud and excited tone of voice,
accompanied with energetic and violent gesticula-
tions, " Such a salvation is of more value than all
the inconveniences that could grow out of enact-
'~'~g and enforcing this law. One such change in~
finitely over-balances and outweighs all devils and
objections that could be interposed by the most
e~ptiomis. With such evidence of its salutary
effect, I would not at this moment for my right
arm, have defeated the Bill."
if statesmen, and men in elevated positions in
life, could lose sight of party incentives, party
trammels and party hindrances, and could realize
he manifold evils of excessive drinking', I hey
would as they could, cut off the streams of this
'vice by at once drying up the fountain.
Where is the capacious, cultivated and benevo-
lent intellect, not a slave of the despot, intempe-
rance, who can in candor say the human family,
or an individual member of it, has derived any
benefit from the use of alcoholic drinks as a beve-
rage; while the countless and never ending ages
of eternity, will be too short to reveal the innu-
inerable wrongs growing out of the use of spiritLi-
ous liquors. They can alon~ be ~ijseful to man as
a remedial agent, and ought to be confined, like
'timer powerful remedial agents, to the shelf of
the (Iruggist ; and then, and not until then. can


TII1~ UNJUST JUDG4~..

the blessing of the discovery of the distillation of
ardent spirits be ascertained.
Could the vendors of alcoholic drinks fully reaP
ize all the aggravated wrong they are inflicting
upon society, the millions of oaths uttered under
the inspiration of the potations they had dealt out,
the untold numbers of bleeding hearts, lacerated
by the traffic; the hosts upon. hosts of youth who~
in consequence of the terrible inroads upon theh
rights, by this demon, have been permitted to
grow to manhood, in the midst of ignorance and
vice; and hence have been visited by the rewards
of crime and degradation-the hecatoinbs thex
have offered upon the altar of their avarice and
cupidity-murdered by a gradual, often slow, but
certain process-could this dark, but too faithful
picture, dance in review before their mental vis-~
ion, would they not, if a spark of humanity
glowed in their bosoms; if even judgment was left
unimpaired, whatever2may have been the fate of
conscience; desist from an avocation which postc~
rity will regard in a no less favorable light than
many crimes; the wages of which now are, banish
ment from society, and confinement in a felon's
cell.

CIIAPTER XXVJL
tives of great men all remind us,
We can make our lives sublime
And departing leave behind us,
Foot-prints on the sands of time~
Foot-prints that perhaps another,
Sailing o'er life's solemn main,
S oine forlorn and shipwrecked brother,
Seeing, may take heart again .~-Lon~4'fe11ow.
Some weeks after the Maine Law had been
enacted and gone into force, Judge Jones, chanced
to be stopping in a village over night, in a remote
part of the State, where two somewhat extensive
liquor dealers had been boasting of their intention
to disregard the enactment, and avowed their de-
termination, to hurl defiance in the very teeth of
the law. Of these facts, Judge Jones, during the
evening became acquainted, and had an interview
on the following morning, with the officer charged
with enforcing the enactment; after obtaining
which, he said: "Sir, procure your process and
authorize me to accompany you in the discharge
of your official duty, and you have my word for it,
that before the expiration of three hours those
liquor stores will be emptied of their contents."

342

is


344

I

TIIR UNJUST JUDGE.

"But," said the officer, "one of these men is a
desperado, and will shoot! Some person will be
killed."
"Lie is not insane, I imagine?" very coolly re
plied Jones.
"No," said the officer, "but he is notorious for
his physical power and malicious heart."
"Evince a disposition to enforce this matter," said
Jones, "and he will quail before the superior pow~
er and majesty of the law."
"But he don't know what fear is, and is a~
courageous as a tiger."
"Well, well," said Judge J6nes, do as I direct,
and he will soon know how to submit-will soon
rival the pet kitten in docility.~7
The officer, accordingly, procured his papers and
summoned the Judge to his aid, and was about in~
creasing his posse, when Judge Jones protested,
saying, "We are equal to this work. Make more
show of the power and majesty of the law, and
less display of physical force, and you will be much
less liable to be met and ~repel-led with brute force.'
Jones and the officer immediately repaired to the
liquor establishment of the man whom the officer
most dreaded, and found him standing upon the
threshold of his rum-shop, armed to the teeth, hax.
ing been previously notifiedby some of his satellites,
of his impending danger; swearing vengeance
and death to the first man who should attempt to
invade his rights.

ThE UNJUST 3tJDG1~.       34~'
Judge Jones stepped up to him, and thug ad-
dressed him: "Sir, we have come here clothed
with the power of the law, and resistance is folly.
We are unarmed-have nothing, save the strong
arm of the lavv; but, should you resist, you will
realize, to your sorrow, that it is more than a Da-
~nascus blade." After saying which, with firmness,
resolution, and courage beaming from every line-
ament of his face, he deliberately walked up to Mr.
Mars, acting upon the motto, "that to falter was
to fail," and passed between him and the door
post, into the store-took up a small cask, the first
he came to, and threw it into the street, without
being very 1)articfllar whether or not it came in
contact with its courageous owner; and by the
lime Jones had another in readiness to, hurl into
the street, its late owner, now interested in the
safety of his lower extremities, gave way, and the
door was entered by the officer; who, with two or
three others that had came to their assistance,
goon roiled over two hundred casks of the "dear
critter' into the street, from whence it was carried
to a place of deposit prepared for the purpose;
and, in due time, condemned and emptied. into it~
wanted place-the gutter. But what was unusual,
it failed to take with it erring men.
'While Jones was passing through one part of
the State, encouraging the enforcement of the law,
when necessary, as we have seen, by boardingg the
lion in his den," Leblond, and several other dis-


346           TUE UNJUST JUDGE.                                      TUE UNJUST JUDGE.         347

tinguished champions of the measure, were simi-
lady engaged in other portions of the State.
Some few months after the law went into force,
Jones, Leblond, Jewett, and Tompkins, met to
compare notes-all anxious that the operation of
the law should not disappoint the hopes of the
friends of this great measure.
"Jones," said Leblond, after having been wrapi
in thought; and, for many minutes, apparently
unconscious of the presence of his friends, "1 have
just been contrasting this interview with the one
we had at the city, some months since, when I
ordered the oysters, as you Vvill recollect."
"These disgraceful occurrences have ceased to
have a place in my memory. II seldom permit my
mind to recur to them; and iiever, except to stimu-
late nie to deeds of more noble daring," replied the
Judge.
"What a fearful, and most terrible account will
the bar have to render at the great day of reck-
fling," said Jewett.
"Won't politicians have a still greater?" said
Tompkins.
"But," replied Leblond, "all lawyers are politi-
cians. You can scarcely find a lawyer in the State
who is not quite as much of a politician as lawyer;
and wields, if not elsewhere, in his particular local-
ity, no little 'influence."
"Yes," ssld Juxlge Jones, "if the united bar of
the country would give their undivided support to

it, an entirely prohibitory enactment, embodying
the spirit and principles of the Maine Law, would
grace the the statute books of every State of this
vast confederacy before twelve moons would wax
and wane."
"That's as true as revelation," said Jewett.~-~
"No body of men in society exert the influence-.
indeed, all other classes combined, if you except the
press, are incapable of exerting the same amount
of 'influence in the enactment and enforce ruent of
laws, that the combined effort of the bar can put
forth."
"Well, gentlemen," remarked Tompkins, " now
to the object of this meeting. How does the law
opeilate so far as you have been able to judge from
a transit through the State?"
Gloriously, most gloriously!" said Judge Jones.
In the small city of D., numbering a population of
about twenty-five thousand, I was informed by his
Honors the Mayor, that at the 'time the law took
effect there were in full operation, at least three
hu ridred groceries-at this m oinent, gentlemen,
there is not one. These groceries would average
from the sale of liquor at least two dollars and iff-
ty cents per day, and that is moderate-less would
make the traffic unprofitable-and we have the
sum of two hundred and seventy-three thousand,
seven hundred and fifty dollars. This may appear
rather startling, but it is the computation of his
Honor, the Mayor; a very intelligent and candid


TILE U {JUST JUDGI!.              349

TLfl~ UNJUST JUDGE.

man. Now, when we contemplate the fact, that
we have diverted an annual expenditure of over
~ quarter of a million of dollars in a city of only
twenty-five thousand; and, that instead of its run-
ning down the throats of bad men making them
worse-a complete lqss-it is now expended in*
food, clothing, and education, for destitute families;
while their hearts and heads are better cared for.
if this was an isolated instance in our State, we,
gentlemen, would be more than compensated for
all the sacrifices we have made. But, in large
cities and small towns the ett~ct is proportionate;
and hence, who can compute its blessings upon the
people of our State?"
"My testimony," said Leblond, would not essen-
tially differ from the Judges; and I will not, there-
fore; occupy your time by narrating it. I must,
however, mention one little incident. While pas~
sing along, I met with an old college acquaintance,
~ lawyer of some distinction, who was opposed to
this temperance movement-a kind, amiable man,
and unusually interested in the welfare of his fain-
dy-after he had offered some reasons against the
law, which doubtless appeared to him cogent; with-
out attempting - to answer his arguments, I said,
"My dear sir, you and I have had sense sufficient
to avoid the intoxicating cup; what assurance have
we that. our sons will escape the sin of drunken-
ness? We can not foresee the ten thousand temp-
tations that may beset them, and guard them

against yi~ding? But, should our counsel save
them, what evidence have we that our daughters
may not form alliances with gentlemen who have
not had the advantage of wise and early counsel.
and consequently become drunkards ?-a calamity
that no man would feel more poignantly than
yourself.
Well," said he, hesitating some, " that's a fact~
I have never looked iitj~on it ifl that light. I don~t
know but the safety of all requires the removal of
the temptation, and all that might lead to tempta.-
tion. Drunkenness is a ~terrible vice ! You arc
probably not far wrong. Drinking, even moder-
ately, benefits no man.'
"I find the law not in advance of public opmm-
ion, but sustained wherever I have been," said
.Iewett. So frightful has been the destruction
from this cause of the~ citizens of our State, that
any mea~surc calculated to save, attracts attention.
and meets with favor.
"Sir Mathew Ilale, after twenty years experi-
ence as a judge upon the bench, remarks, "That
if all the murders and manslaughter and burgla-
ries and robberies, riots and tumults, and other
great enormities, which had been committed with-
in that time, were divided into five parts, four
would be found to have been the result of intern-
peranceb' "And," continued Jew ett, "the masses
of our people becoming quite intelligent in this
age of progress, have improved upon the die-


350            THF~ UNJUST JUDGE.                                       THE UNJUST JUD~.           351

coy cry of Sir Matthew, and generally ~cribe more
than nine-tenths of all the crime committed, to
the use of intoxicating drinks, and hence invoke
the aid of any measure the tendency of which is
to remove this evil."
"The law works admirably," said Tompkins.-
"In a tour through the State, I have not seen a
drop of liquor, nor a drunken man, except in one
village; but more of that hereafter. In the county
of II-, I was told by the Jailor that the Jail was
entirely empty; an occurrence which had not be-
fore happened within the last twenty-five years.
And," continued he, "I cannot forego ihe pleas-
ure of relating a little scene that occurred in the
western part of the State,
'AU of which I saw, aud part of which I wrts,'
thoug-h I should iucur the risk of trespassing upon
your patience.
Stopping for the night in the itourishing viP
lage of M-.--., I was induced, from several causes,
to lecture upon the importance of enforcing the
law. Next morning I was roused from a pleasant
slumber, by a gentle rap at the door of my apart-
inent, when I immediately rose and prepared to
receive my visitor. Upon opening the door, to
my great astonishment, there stood a pensive little
girl with down cast countenance, clad in the habi-
liments of the most abject poverty. I took her by
the hand and kindly inquired the object of her
mission, sd early in the morning.

'Mi'. Tompkins,' said she, 'I was afraid you
would leave town before I could get up; and
when I went to bed last night, I thought I could
keep awake all night, and as soon as it was day-
light, I could come up, but I couldn't keep awake.'
In as tender a tone as I could assume, I enquired
what was the trouble.
"Won't you see my pa before you leave? May
he you can coax him not to drink any more? Oh,
if he would do as you told everybody, last night,
how happy we would 1)0 ! Sister and I had pa go
with us to the lecture, and when he came home he
cried for more thaii an hour ; and we all cried, and
pa J)vomised mother he would quit drinking; but,
as soon as lie goes down street he gets into some
of the wicked taverns, or groceries and forgets his
promise, and we are then all so unhappy."
I enquired how long' he had been drinking.
"It has beeti about two years. 'When he com-
menced we had a good home, hut pa went to drink-
ing and paid no attention to his business ; and Mr.
~JftCOi)S, the tavern-keeper, two months ago, sold
our house to pay- for whiskey pa had got from him;
and now, every time Mr. Jacob's little girls meet
us they say 'your father is a drunkard, and you
are dirty, ragged, little girls, and we won't play
with you.' Mr. Toinpkinsis not the man who sells
~he liquor to pa, as bad a.~ he? Sister and I can't
help pa's drinking; we coax him every day to quit;
and we pray for him every night, and it is too bad


T4

3~2           Th~ UNJUST JUDGE.
for Mr. Jacob's little girls to abuse us so, ain't it,
Mr. Tompkins? Won't you go down and see pa?
He hasn't been drinking any this morning. Ma
told me about the Maine law, but I couldn't under-
stand it. XYiIl it hang all the wicked men thw
sell liquor? I don't like it if it does that, Mr.
Tompkins. But they are no better than pa, and
other poor men they will Kill, if the Maine law
don't conic and stop them."'
Here this poor, crushed child xvept as if hci
little heart would break; and, thoytg hyou may- re-
gard it as an indication of weakness in me, I cried.
too; nor could I have avoided it had a kingdom
been tendered me. After' I became calm, for iii
was some time before I could either conceive a
thought or give utterance to one; I said, 'go home,
my dear, and be a good girl, and in less than three
days yoi~r father will again be a sober man; for.
before I leave the village, we will close the liquor
establishments and remove all temptation from
him."'
'~Did you redeem your promise?" inquired Judge
Jones.
"The first day was sufficient for the work! 'Ws
made sad havoc among the groceries; and oi~ yes-
terday, I received a letter from the little girl ,~'-
which he drew from his pocket and read, amid th~
sobs and tears of these men who have left their
Foot-prints on the sends of tirne."


  
             
         
       
   
