
    ----CITATION----
        Clewline, Charley.. The Empress of the Isles, or, The Lake Bravo .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7541
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Empress of the Isles, or, The lake bravo 
            
               ..;;,
i

EMPRESS OF THE ISLES;
THE LAKE BRAVO.
A ROMANCE OF THE CANADIAN STRUGGLE IN t37.
BY CHARLEY CLE9WLINB.
NEW YORK:
STRINGER &amp; TOWN8RND,
222*ano 0AnDW AT

_t

I

It
}

t


EMPRESS~ OF THE ISLES
"qR
HE LAKE BRAVO
ogAPTE~R L.
T h B  F A IR Y  ;LA N D  A N D  T H D  S T R A N E  Y O U T H - T u B  L o N E  O R A V R -
ION OP BEAUTY-'H   RUFFIAN AND TIIS 1RSUUi
"Before bim, ia the opening snn,
Stretshingayfmsktok,
Brighter tha  vrhi o:ha  emd
RIis othieiwrdbfrehagae.
am.r lake voyager, as le descends the inagnifient St Lawrenc
happens to be a -ip, pleasant day,and be is on deck at thetim
not fail to notice, as the noblestoaier in wich he bas embarked
up  y the foot-of Carlten Islad,  beautiful islet some three
ahead, and a little on the atarboayd bows, almost in the fai
between the larger island just left ,astern and the young rock-fo
city of Clayton, (formerly French Creek) on the American side
the-steamer approaches, and seeps along within fifty yards of:
grassy promontory that forms, the  estera extremity of tbo min
island, the view isdelightful beyond descriptoas Th6 por~iou-
island next the main laid, from which it is separated by a
channel, is covered with a.dense growthaof native forest trees
the foreground,.comprising a area of nio than a hundred .a
destitute of wood, ave here and there giahu old oak and a .
ing willows, that skirt: the balka of a narrowwinding inlet which
put near tlie peiniuxa, and runs  ipjno th e very eptre of the
whereKN terrnipatea~ a tiny basmn, qirgular in form, and so exqu
.haatikpin all itjsfairi belongings of wdlowiringed shores puref
watcreand qietitste nooks bo a: g white a. h d i've na
kit myriada of;water lilies, that 4he enraptured voagergy.v1:
*                                eelswg " hohbtiful !4 1a the, si ft ,steahoer lag   ',
&amp;no tand-then ctehes a transient glance of the sylvan preturo.

-A YS-
je, if it
i, will
hauls
: miles
r way
unded
s As
a little
iaturo
of the
Darrow
,,while
cres, is
droo -
opens
isand,
isitely
rampid
v-orest
ntailly
agCp*i


THE EMPRESS OF THE ISLES; ;ON

During the summer months, this cleared portion of the little islet is
clothed with a luxuriant growth of red and white clover, the grateful
aroma of which is borne by the soft summer winds for miles away
among the intricacies of a hundred narrow, winding channels of neigh-
boring islands.
Such is Linda's Island, one of the most lovely of all that celebrated
group which stun the bosom of. the mighty St. I awrentee, and are-known
to travellers as the "Thousand Islands."
There is a sad story-almost a legend now-of this little gem of the
St. Lawren'ce, which I will tell you just as I have heard it a hundred
times from the people at French Croek and many of the farmers living
along the river near the island.
Early one morning in the month of May, 1817, a schooner, bound
down the river, stopped at French Greek, and landed a delicate, fair-
haired girl, with several heavy trunks, and then immediately got under
weigh again, and proceeded on her voyage. The girl was apparently
about eighteen, very richly dressed, and a total stranger to everybody
in the village, and of course everybody wondered what on earth she had
come there for. But it was soon ascertained that the stranger had
money, which was sufficient to make her a welcome visitor among the
simple-minded villagers, and invest her with an air of importance, par-
ticularly with the proprietor of the village inn, of whom she engaged
rooms for an indefinite period, and paid him a quarter's rent nd 'boat'd
in advance,411 in gold.
Within three weeks from the morning that the beautiful youn
stranger landed at Frenoh Creek, a rumor Went abroad that she hag
purchased from a farmer, who had previously inhabited it, the little
island, and was having a small cottage built near the willow basin, as it
was called; which she intended as her future residence. People learned
that the deed of the property amid the contract for the building ofthe
cottage'were made in the naine'of Linda 'Morris. but that was all they
knew of the mysterious stranger; only that she was young, beautiful as
an angel, and always wore an  lr' of settled melancholy, almost of
anguish, upon her ehlild-like featpr-es,'as if some bitter grief was paying
upon her heart ; and when some two. months' had gone' by from the
morning that she first -made her appearance among them, the cottage
was completed, and she removed to her fairy islet; the heart's best
affections of all went with her ; for all, old and young, loved the gentle
being. and the older inhabitants of I the 'illage,those who knew her
best, shook their heads ominously wheu they spoke of her, and often
said--
"Alas! poor girl, she is dying of a broken heart."
These 'expressions were prophetic ;,for one cold December's afternoon,
more than five months after the young recluse had taken up her lone
residence in the willow Cottage, as people called' it, a hunter, who had
followed a deer over on the' ice to;'the island, camerto the village of
French Creek with a message for the''doctor, a good old man far past
the prime of manhood, another for the minister, and yet another'for
Mrs. Allen, a poor widow of the village, with whom Linda -had' been
very intimate during her reside'ee at t"e inn, requeting 'them to oeto
oirr to the island immediately.' The 'suiimmons waf promptly obeyed,

4

r 7E,
gi
i
#
{      {
[   F{
;
f{
2
ttY
t^
i    '
i
1?
b
1
r
F
it
t
t
j     1
({r'
i
r
;

1I

p
+; E
,i
;
kj
1  j   F
r
lf
i
l
lye
l

'TEi Lk2 f  1f%2RAV                     5
and when they returned to the village, after an absence of four 'days, it
was with sad faces and sadder hearts, for they brought the intelligence
that-the beautiful recluse, 4&amp;Linda of'the Islana,"- was dead !
Within three bourseafter their arrival at the cottage, she had given
birth to a male child, which she confided to the care of the widow, and
then, after imparting her secret to the two kind-hearted old men. and
the foster mother of her new-born babe, she lingered along, hovering
as it were' upon 'the very brink of the grave, for almost four days
longer, when her gentle spirit took its flight to a holier, better world.
Two days after .lhis sad event, the whole population of the village
were assembled at the island cottage, and with a deep solemnity be-
fitting the -occasion, the body of Linda Morris was consigned to the
grave, in a spot she had herself chosen, under a venerable old willow,
only a few steps from the cottage.
'The curiosity and excitement consequent upon an event of so extra-
ordinary a nature, gradually subsided-the secreti-etiained fastdocked
in the bosoms of those to whom it had been confided- and at length,
-when the spring came again, and the Widow Allen removed from
'French: Creek to parts unknown, taking with her the infant which had
been entrusted to her care, people began to think that the 'mystery
would always remain a mystery, and so dismissed it as much as possi-
ble from their thoughts.
The cottage remained unoccupied for nearly a year 'after the death
of Linda, when it was accidentally set on fire by some drunken fisher.
men, and totally consumed. The good old minister of the village held
possession'of the island, by virtue of some writing which he 'had re-
ceived from the recluse: and as he would allow no one to settle upon
it, or cultivate the soil, it remained for years just as it was at the death
of its mysterious proprietor, except that the cottage was destroyed, as
already mentioned.
Such is the story, legend, or what you will, of Linda's Island;' and
such, very nearly as I have described it, was the appearance of the
delightful little islet at the time our story opens, which is in the
month of May, 1837. ,
C  *           C      *       *  .   *
It was within an hour of noon, on one of the most gloriously beauti-
ful May mornings that ever dawned upon the magnificent scenery of
the St. Lawrence, that a noble steamer, on her downward course, stop-
pod for a few moments abreast of the little promontory at the western
end of the island, to land a solitary passenger, who, leaping from the
bow of the yawl as she neared 'the white-pebbled beach, turned and
waved an adieu with his hand to a group.of fellow-voyagers that had
assembled near the steamer's gang-way to bid him farewell.
The steamer went on her way again, and for full fifteen minutes the
lone passenger stood there dn the beach with his gaze bent upon the
forms and faces of friends, perhaps, on her deck, till they grow indis-
tinct in the dim 'distance, and finally the steamer herself was lost to
view in the narrow winding channel among the green islands below the
town-of Clayton.
As the solitary stranger is destined to play a prominent part in the


~i
1'

TH- LAK8 ,BRAVOW

7.

THE       * E E RP*JS Of  TIiISLES;g OR,
drama which is to follow, and as we havefa moat admirable view ofhim
as he stands there watching the receding steamer, W4 may as well  -
impress his form and features upon -our minds, so that we ,may be
enabled to recognize him again at a glance, whenever and wherever
we may chance to meet' him; and meet .him again we. shall, rnost
assuredly, and often too, before another year has gone by.
You can see, as he stands there leaning lightly upon the muzzle' of
a heavy rifle, highly ornamented with silver mountings, the breech of
which he has -dashed impatiently down into the loose gravel of the
beach, burying it almost to the look ; that he is young, so young that
you are certain he cannot yet have counted his twentieth birth-day ;
still it is a form and face of perfect manhood. l:s broad chest, and
muscular, well-rounded limbs, tell of uncommon strength and ;activity;
his face is very handsome and exquisitely fair, almost too fair for a
man, and yet there is nothing feminine in its expression. The features,
as you view them in profile, are of the true Grecian cast ; the mouth '
is perhaps a trifle too large to be in strict harmony with the otherwise
perfect features; but the rich red lips, slightly parted, disclosing the
small even teeth, beautifully white, takes from the mouth every appear.-
ance of vulgarity. -His eyes are dark, and, lit up as they are by the
bright warm sunlight, show as intensely blue as the -fathomless depths
of old St. Lawrence's waters on a calm summer's evening. The deli-
cate arched brows,.and long silken lashes, an Andalusian beauty would
envy, and his hair-ohI we -can never tell its exact color. We can
only see that it is of that glorious sunny hue that changes with every
flash of sunlight-that glossy golden tint so peculiar to Austria's high.
born-dames ; and then its slight inclination to curl gives it that grace.
ful, wavy appearance so much admired by all, and which would cause a,
Spanish maiden to fall in love with it and its wearer at the first'
glance.    ~
His costume, you will observe, is half nautical in its fashion and
material, consisting of light duck trousers, spotlessly white; a close-
fitting jacket of fine blue cloth, ornamented with a profusion of small
braid buttons set in double rows on the breast, and up the slashed
cuffs almost to the elbow. His head is covered with a blue cloth cap,
such as is worn'by midshipmen in the English navy, while a delicate
scarf is knotted negligently about his handsome throat, the ends falling
down on his breast and half concealing the bosom of a beautifully
enbroidered shirt, the collar of which you see is open and turned-down
over that of his jacket, thereby adding greatly to his juvenile ap-
pearance.
For a few moments after the steamer went out of sight among the
islands, the youthful stranger remained there leaning thoughtfully
upon his rifle, with his eyes wandering over the gorgeous picture before
him ; and then, as if suddenly recollecting that he had visited the
island for other purposes than to stand there upon the beach and gaze
out upon the splendid river scenery, he took his way along the bank
of the little inlet, at a rapid pace, until his quick eye caught a glimpse
of a white marble slab, peeping up from amid a little wilderness of
wild flowers and blooming roses that grew in native luxuriance -about.
a lone grave under an old. willow near the eastern border of a -tiny

fakelet, when be , sprang forward with a bound as fleet as that of=the
wild gazelle until he gained the headstone, and then eagerly putting
aside the foliage, he beat down and read-.
LINDA MORRIS,
DIED DECEMBER 21; 1817,
. D 19.
My mother !" exclaimed the 'young stranger, as he sank to hIs
knees in an attitude of prayer, and bowed his head upon the grassy
mond. For many minutes he had remained there in silent and holy
communion with the dead, when he was suddenly aroused by the low
flutedike- tonea of a :female voice singing a plaintive requiem; and
looking up from- the grave, he discovered a young girl so gloriously
beautiful that she seemed rather a bright being from the spirit world
than *a creation, of earth, like a second Lady of the Lake. guiding with
skilful hand a fairy skiff along through the quiet waters of the sylvan
lakelet, heading her tinycraft for the shore nearest the lone grave.
Tn n transport of wonder, doubt and amazement, the enraptured youth
stood there as if spell-bound, gazing upon the enchanting vision, grow-
ing brighter and lovelier each moment in all the glowing charms of her
magic beauty, as the weird skiff approached the shore.
Lightly the beautiful creature stepped forth from her little bark as
it ranged up alongside a clump of willows that grew down to the very
edge of the water, and taking up a basket of wild flowers which she
had brought with her, she left the beach and began to ascend the bank
by an abrupt path that led from the water up to the lone grave-; but
era she had gained one quarter of the distance, a fierce looking ruffian
sprang up from a little thicket of briars and tangled vines that skirted
the path, and snatching up the maiden in his arms, he bounded away
with her in- spite of her utmost struggles and frantic cries for help,
towardsa dense mass of willows that grew on the beach at a distance
perhaps of a dozen rods from the shore.     4-      -
" Lost ! lost !" shrieked the despairing girl, as the thicket was
gained, and her eye fell upon a beautiful sail-boat, which had been so
artfully concealed by the green branches that she had not discovered
it when she passed a few moments previously in her own skiff.
" There's where you are entirely mistaken," replied the miscreant,
in a cold, sneering tone ; " it strikes inc that you are just found, for
here I've been waiting for you to visit the island these three days ;
but you came very near giving me the slip after all. Do you know I
was fast asleep there till your singing aroused me?  Why, if you
hadn't been quite so musical, you would have got away altogether, and
I should have lost my two hundred pounds, which I am to have for
carrying you off."
" Two hundred pounds for carrying me off?' inquired the astonished
girl, becoming suddenly calm; "and may I be permitted to know who
it is that has employed you to commit this ruffianly act ?"
.' 0, certainly, Miss, there's no harm in your knowing, as you won't
be very likely to get away and give the alarm. You must know that
the Colonial Government has been trying to get hold of your father.

k
s
4'
I
1

f(
p
t
't  .
i
;
ii}
}:

'11

{


S       TE kEMPRItS 0V t ?1 15~t tS; OR,                                  fl   AC   fAO

for th'e last, twenty years; but somehow they could never manage to
de it: --And now Sir Francis'thinks that if he once gets you safeu-
his power, lie can soon nab your father ; fbx if common report speaks-
truth---"
" Oliver Shephard is a rnost consummate scoundrel !" said a bold,
manly voice, which caused tle' astonished kidnapper to relinquish his
grasp upon the girl, who sprang away beyond the reach of his arm with
a foot as fleet as that of a frightened fawn.
The burly wretch cast a single indignant glance at the intruder,-and
then made a motion as if to dart upon his vie-tio again. ' He made-but
a single step, however ; for a grasp of iron was laid upon his shoulder.
and held' him back.
With a violent effort the villain shook off his assailant, and for nearly
a minute he stood there with" flashing eyes. gazing in silence. upon the
manly form of the young stranger-him whom we have so lately seen'
kneeling there beside the lone grave. - At length he spoke:
aStanley Morris,-what meddling fiend has sent you hither I  But
four days since I left you on board your ship in Kingston."  -
":Were you to inquire what angel had guided me to this spot, me-
thinks the question, were more readily answered," rejoined the young
man.-
"Then may I ask by what right you presume to interfere between
me and yonder girl, whom, as you are well aware, I am commissioned,
by Sir Francis Bransley himself, to seize and carry off ?"
" By the divine right of common humanity, which teaches MAN every-
where to protect a helpless woman against brute violence."
" Do you know who I am ?" shouted the now aroused ruffian.
" Aye, I do, Oliver Shephard ; I have known you long, as the base
spy of a corrupt government; and now' I know you better as a vile
tool of a viler master.",                                     .
'" I have no time or disposition to bandy words with you ! my busi-
ness is with yonder girl."- And the spy, as. we have just heard the
young man call hin i made another single step towards the trembling
maiden, and again the fearless champion stood in his path.
" Oliver Shephard," said the boy-stranger, as calmly as if no breath
of passion stirred his blood, go back to those who sent you, and tell
them such a tale as you;knew well how to invent, of your defeat; but
dare to lay= your~polluting hand again upon that pure being. and by-the-
blue vault of Heaven, I'll send your felon soul to the keeping of the
foul fiends !"..
In an instant the villain's hands were upon the butts of a brace of
pistol that protruded from -within the bosom of his vest; but before
he could draw them forth, he was hut-led backwards full ten fea from
the beach into the water. When he- regained the shore, his pistols
were in no very serviceable condition, and a single glance at his antago-
nist, who stood there at a little distance; squinting with one eye along-
the tube of the deadly rifle aimed at his head, convinced him that he
was in a particularly unhealthy neighborhood, and within three-min-
utes he bad his boat under full sail, standing down 'through the little
inlet, leaving his victorious enemy and the rescued muaiden in peace-
able possession of the island.

CHAPTER II
A MUTUAL INTRODUcTION--AN HOUR'S CONVERSATION AT TIIE GRAVE--
THE VISIT TO CLAYTON--TnE FAREWELL.
In early youth, when hope is new
The heart expands with iove and joy;
Each prospect wears a brighter hue,
And pleasure seems without alloy.
WITH all the trusting innocence of a very child--and, indeed. she
was scarcely more--the beautiful girl approached the youthful stran-
ger. and clasping his arm with both her delicate little hands, she looked
up into his face con6dingly, as she poured forth her thanks for his gal-
lant interference-in her behalf. He must have been an anchorite, in-
deed. who could have-stood there unmoved, amnd gazed upon that glori-
ous vision of female loveliness. Pygmalion himself. when kneeling at
the shrine of his own magic art, beheld not a creature of such faultless
beauty.
Certainly not more than sixteen summers could have dawned upon
her young existence. and yet Time seemed to have forestalled his own
work. in perfecting thus early the matchless splendor of her glowing
charms. Her's was that divine style of idealized beauty that might
have characterized the far-famed Cecelia of Carlo Dolce, could the won-
drous picture have stepped forth from the.canvas, invested with living
breathing humanity.
But this is only a sort of dreamy, poetical description, which, if you-
happen to be any way particular or obstinate upon such subjects, you
will very likely pretend that you don't half understand; wherefore
permit me. in'a few words of plain, sober prose, to picture our future
heroine, divested of half the romance with which the occasion has in-
vested her.
She was a dark brunette, somewhat below the medium stature even
of a girl of sixteerr, slender in form. but of such exquisite proportions
that, in gazing upon her. classic features and Hebe-like figure, you
seemed to forget that she was petite, and the sylph grew mysteriously
before your eyes into a magnificent woman. Her hair and bright,
sparkling eyes were black as night, and-- and  - pshaw! Read
th~e graphic description-of Di Vernon, and you will understand exactly
whatI wish to-say of the little island beauty.
After having thanked the young man with a warmth of expression
which showed that the best feelings of her heart accompanied her
words, the gentle girl led her companion back to the spot where she
had been surprised by the ruffian, and taking from the ground the
basket of flowers which she had let fall in the first moment of her
fright, she pointed significantly towards the grave, and arm in arm they
ascended the bank together. -

'ii
:1

Iii

8

WAR'- LAIR 'BRAVO. '

g


10            T'r pa M , F $S .01!   8THES .ES ; OR
Ere they reached the grassy mound, a mutual self-introduction took
plaoe between them. The maiden learned that he who had so nobly
rescued her from the clutches of the ruffian, was the child of the recluse,
whose story she was familiar with. Ten days previously, he informed
her that his mother, or her.he had ever known as such, died in Kings-
ton, and on her death-bed she had revealed to him the secret of his true
parentage, and all the particulars of his mother's death, her burial
there on the little island, and also placed in his. lands many papers
which had been entrusted to her by his mother, among which was one
giving an account of the cause which induced her to take up her abode-
on the island, and another, the original deed of the island itself in his
mother's name.
After the funeral of his foster mother, he obtained leave of absence
from the ship he was attached to as a midshipman, for the purpose of
visiting his mother's grave, and he had not been more than an hour on
the island when the scene occurred as'already related, between the
villain Shephard and= himself.
On the other hand, Stanly Morris, as we shall henceforth know Mm,
learned that the beautiful maiden by his side; and leaning so confid-
ingly upon his arm, was the daughter of William Johnson, or, as he
was more familiarly'known about the St. Lawrence and Lake Ontario,
Bill Johanson, or the Pirate of the Lakes, which reputation he had-earned
partly.from the fact, that during the war of 181S2 he'bad made himself,
obnoxious to the British and Colonial Governments, by destroying two
of their armed vessels in their own waters, almost under the very guns of
their forts ; intercepting their mails, and transmitting to thi American
Commander such information as led to the capture of Toronto, (then
little York;) but more especially had .he become an object of venge-
ance to the authorities of what was then Upper Canada, by his success.
ful and daring career for more than twenty years, as a smuggler on the
St. Lawrence and Ontario.
For fifteen years there had been a standing reward in Kingston of
one Abousand pounds sterling, for the apprehehsion- and delivery into
the hands of the law, of the notorious Bill Johnson, and many were the
artful schemes and projects entered into by his -personal enemies and
those who sought the reward, to get possession of his person. But all
their plans had been rende ed abortive .by his consummate cunning
bnd personal prowess; and so, up to the time that our story commences,
Bill Johnson had lived there on a littly rocky island, do near to the
village of French Creek that it was connected to the main land by a
rude wooden bridge, keeping A kind of obscure inn or boarding house
for-sailors, a quiet, peaceable citizen of the United States, and carrying
tn 'his extensive contraband trade, by means of several large, fast.
.saihing boats, with several of the obscure out-of-the-way ports on the
-Qanadian side of the St. Lawrence, which is here some miles wide.
But after all, Bill Johnson had a hundred true friends where he had
one enemy, both in the United States and Canada ; and Stanly Morris
had heard so much of the genuine kindness of heart. and noble gene-
rositYrefvthe bold smuggler,.that he seemed 4o him n'pattern of all that
waspbrave and good,; .and when he learned that the glorious creature
-beside him was the daughter of a man he so w h admired, be somehow

T.HE LAKE BRAVO. I-
let as if she wae rather sister, or an acquaintance whom he had log
knsorn,than an entirestranger whom he had just met for the first
time. And then, as they reached his mother's grave, and the gentle,
irl proceeded to twine her garland of freshaculled flowers around the
lone head-stone, the whole truth of her angel mission flashed across his
minsI, and he silently invoked the choicest blessings of the Almighty
-Qpd upon the fair being who thus sought to beautify the last resting
plcae of the stranger dead.
As for the maiden, she had heard so much and so often, from her me-
thier anud hundred others of the villager of " Linda," the recluse and her
death and burial there on the little island, that she learned to love the
Jeep solitude of the spot; and often in spring and early summer would
-she gather her basket of flowers, and paddle away in her fairy skiff over
to the island, where she would spend whole hours in decorating- the
grave, half dreaming the while, and wondering what could be the fate
of Linda's child. so that when at last she had so unexpectedly met the
very child of whom she had'so often thought and- dreamed, it did not
appear to her:as if he was an entire stranger whom she had never seen
before ; and when her task was ended, the. last flower from her basket
had been deposited upon the grave, or twined -about the marble slab,
she sat down beside him there, under the old willow, and for a whole
hour they conversed upon a variety of subjects as familiarly as if they
had known each other all their lives.
At length they were aroused by the loud plashing of. a steamer's
paddles, as she passed close along by the island on her upward course,
and the maiden observing it was growing late, invited her companion
to accompany her on her return to. the village,
He accepted the invitation, and soon the light skiff, propelled by
his vigorous arm, was cleaving the bright, blue waters of the St.
Lawrence, towards the village of French Creek, some three miles
distant.
;   -     "Who in the world is that handsome young sailor Kate Johnson has
got with her ?" inquired a half-dozen idlers in front of a grocery near
the little wharf, where Stanly had just made the skiff fast. The ques-
tion, or something equivalent to it, was repeated by a dozen old woman,
as many rosy-cheeked maidens, and twice that number of bare-footed
boys. hs the young couple passed along through the village, towards the
residence of the good old minister, (now .almost helpless in his extreme
p pge.) who had been present at the death of Stanly's mother, and who
had ever-since that held possession of the island which bore her name.
But the oftrrepeated question remained unanswered, for not a soul in
the whole village had ever seen the young man before; and so they
A      continued to guess and wonder, while, altogether regardless of the
remarks that now and then reached their ears, the pair passed on till
they reached the parsonage, into which they entered, and where; much
to the astonishment of the old minister, the beautiful girl introduced
her companion as Stanly Morris, the son of the recluse; after which
she immediately took her departure for home, promising, however, to
return at n early hour in the evening, and escortt her new friend to
her father's -house, as she -was anxious to introduce him to her parents.
,What passed between yesng  tanly Morris and the aged minister


12

TIM ' E P1U5S O TUERISLES ; OR,

that afternoon is a secret, and were it known, it would' be altogether
unimportant in our story; but certain it is that the secret of his name
and the circumstance of his having so bravely defended the beautiful
girl against the 'brutal ruffian that day on the island; had' gone like wild
'fire through the village; for when he left the parsonage at sun-down,
in- company with Kate, who had come thus early to conduct him to her
home,-he was everywhere greeted by the warm-hearted villagers, as the
champion of Kate'Johnson, the universal favorite and pet of all, young
and old, wherever she was known. Old men and women, too, a few
there.were, who remembered his fair-haired, beautiful mother, and her
sad fate,:and these came forth into the street, took him kindly by the
hand, and welcomed him to the village as warmly as if he were some
-near and dear relative-just returned from a long voyage. But-all-these
welcomes and greetings were trifles compared to those he received from
the parents, brothers, and only sister of the beautiful Kate. .The little
beauty had told the story-of his gallant conduct in her own glowing
language, and their gratitude when he appeared among them was
unbounded.   Old Bill, a-"very giant in stature, caught him in his
brawny arms and hugged him to his heart, with a grasp like that of a
polar bear ; his wife, a quiet lady-like woman, hung there with her
arms about the young sailor's neck. and head bowed upon his bosom,,
sobbing like a child, while two of: the brothers, almost as hercule~an as
their father in proportions, wrung his hands so fiercely that he was
almost ready' to cry out with pain ; and Kate's sister, the gentle Har-
riet, stood timidly gazing upon the group, almost wishing that it had
been herself that the handsome youth had nobly rescued from the
power of the vile miscreant, Shephard.
At length Kate, probably fearing that tlhey would smother or pull
him to pieces, interposed her authority, and drew him away to a seat
beside herself, when an animated conversation ensued,'the condition
of the Canadas were freely discussed, and as the popular feeling along
our whole frontier was at, that time enlisted in favor of a rebellion or
revolution, which was every day expected to break out in Canada, Old
Bill felt - considerable curiosity, or it may be anxiety, to know which
side his young guest, would be in favor of when the struggle came, as
come it would before long; and in the course of the conversation, he
made the inquiry.
" Had the question been asked me ten days ago," replied the young
officer,' I would have told you, without a moment's hesitation, that I
would remain firm in the cause of government. I have held a warrant
in the navy for nearly four years, and have no reason to be dissatisfied
either with the service or government. Three weeks since I passed
my examination and received a lieutenant's commission, supposing, of
coarse, as did the board that passed me, that I was born a British
subject.
" But when the good old woman, whom I had always known as my
mother, died, and' I was made aquainted with the secret of my birth-
when I learned that the old ,lady had assumed the name of Morris at
the request of my real mother, and that I was an American born-I
determined to visit my mother's grave, and then return to Kingston
and resign my commission, and lPereafter make my home on the beau-

l }i
iy
!'
l   '    ,

THE LAKE BRAVO.

13

tiftil island where nmy mother drew her last: breath;-and  assane jen
that my determination has in nowise been changed by the incident
which has this day occurred ;' and the speaker looked at the: blihing
Kate, in a manner that gave significance to the latter -part'of his
expression.
Stanly Morris passed the night and the following day till neatrnoon,
with his friends, when he took his leave, and went-on board a steamer
bound to Kingston, promising to return within ten days, and makeThis
home with them until he could have'a cottage' built on, the islands
I Just as he was on the eve of departure, Kate took both:his:hands in
her's, and begged him to beware of the villain Shephard.' -Stanly
assured her he would do so, and the next moment he was gone.
CHAPTER        III.
TEE EDEN ROMB--THE SERPENT'8 MASK-AN ANGEL S ERROR AND A DE-
MON' TRIUMPH.
0, Itenry, you  hare
From that true'Jienry who, in by-gone days
Rode with the hurry of a northern gale
Towards Rever's heights, and ere the park was gained
Made the glad air a messenger of love,
By many a blast upon your hunting horn.
ANNE nOL.EYN.
UPoN a romantic little headland that;projects into the, sparkling
waters of the bay of'Quinto, some eight miles tothe westward of
Kingston, in Canada West, stands, a few rods back from the roadthat
here winds along the shore, a beautiful white-cottage almost hid. away
amid a wilderness of shrubs, ornamental trees, and- clambering vines.
There is an air of wealth and 'good taste combined in the arrangement
of the ground, and even in: the-external appearance of-the cottage
itself, that impresses-the mind of the most casual observer, as his-ege
rests.upon the scene, with the instant conviction that in this fairy spot
wealth and happiness have made -their home together. 'Tis: indeed,; a
most magnificent picture of rural beauty"; just such a one as the weary
wanderer in far-of climes, the hardy sailor in his long dreary udght-
watches, the strong.armed mechanic,?and the grasping moneyeloving
merchant, each and all, love to contemplate in their moments 'of rela -
ation from business or toil;, just such a scene as all love-to dwell upon,
as the mighty magician, imagination, calls them .up ,frotnthe misty
depths of the immaterial world, and presents them to our mind's eye
in all theirglowing colors of ideal happiness.
Within an-elegantly-furnished parlor of this beautiful cottage, seatdd
by an..open window commanding'a view of the whollawn, several rods
of the road as it winds along the shore-aid miles of the ble  water on
either side of the little-prombntory,:is a female form, who for. the last
half hour has set there by. the open easement, -with ber'head resting
upon hersmall fir, hand,;more thanehalfconcealedby the profusion

0


1,f
( fill5
{
tIt   i
t
f  I{
1 (I

THE EMPRESS OP THE ISLES; OR,

f -rich brdwt curis that, parted at the forehead, float negligently down -
in -wayMasses       - upon either shoulder.
There is no lamp burning within the apartment, but by the last
faint beams of departing day---for 'tis the twilight hour-we can discover
that the female s young-almost a child in years, and beautiful as an
angel . We can see, too, if we observe very closely, that her exquisitely
chiseled features are marked with traces of sorrow, and as she sits there
as motionless as a marble statue, gazing out upon the lawn and alo g
down the winding road, her bosom heaves as if with some powerful
emotion, and a half-suppressed sigh escapes her parted lips.
' Suddenly the quick tramp of iron-shod hoofs falls upon her listening
ear, and in an instant the female form springs to her feet, beads her
head for another moment, as if waiting for a repetition of the sounds,
and then, as they become plainer and more distinct than before, she
darts froih the cottage, and bounding lightly as a fawn along down the
graveled walk,'she reaches the gate, and flings it wide open, just as a
powerful horse, whose hide- of glossy black is flecked here and there
with snowy foam, dashed into view around an abrupt angle in the road ;
and the next moment. able, handsoihelooking young man, dressed .i
the dark-green uniform of an officer high in rank in the " Royal
Rifes," flings himself from his panting steed, and folds the Hebe-like
creature to his beating bedlt.
" Oh, Henry ! I an so glad that you have come at last !" exclaims
the maiden ; for such we may presume her to be, as she releases her.
self from the officer's arms, and looks up half reproachfully into his
face ;« I had- almost 'begun to fear that you had forgotten me and
would not come again."
"Forget you, Edith I When the fond brother' forgets tot love the
fair-haired infant whose head is pillowed upota her bosom-,wheyi the
parent bird :forgets her unfledged ;brood, and leaves theink to perish with
hunger--when yonder flowers forget to, love God's glorious sunlights-
and the bright stars forget to spangle the blue arch of night--then,
and not till then, my dear Edith, will I forget you."
nOh, thank you,' thank you, Henry ! I believe 'yog and am almost
happy 'again; but it seemed such a weary' while since I sa# you last ;
each hour -and mnoient- for the last three days I have looked so
anxiously'for your coming.".               ho              hv
"It Was not my fault, dearest--God knows how impatient I1have
beUn to see you; but night and day, for the past week, my duties as
an officer have detained :me in the city, and now, at the very first
moment of leisure, I have harried hither to inform you-that all the
-preparatihnrs for 4ur wedding is complete, and withinthree days-.4
'Thtee:days, Henry 'I Within three 'hours' I expect my brother's
eturn fromdklontreaul           '
Ah I Then have we no. time to waste in -words. Come, Edith,
letus away to the* dity at. once. - To-morrow shall see us -uuited,
1    OW in no.  Henry t  I Icannot, will notrleave .my home, and mny
wible,:generouas-hearted brother thus. I=have no parents Henry ; no
kindfriends to guide-and direct me, a one to cherish #the dcsulate
orpau b hut my brave- my almost worshiped' brehd.-ho, who with

Y4

'TH 'LAK   BRAVO:
.mnre than a part's solicitude has se long watched over me, anid
anticipated my every want ere the young wish was framed in my
mind. Oh, Henry!t do not ask -me te leave ,my brother. Why no
remain here to-night until his return, and confess all to him?  He is
too noble, too forgiving in his nature, to hold a grudge against any
person for so trailing a quarrel as you say your's Was with him; besides,
loves his sBster too devotedly to mar her future happiness by his
opposition to our union."
"Listen to me, Edith Letts. Your brother and myself have quar-
reled, as you already know. This is but a trifle, and  fight be easily
forgiven by him. and forgotten by myself. But there are other reasons
existig of which you know nothing, and which I am not at liberty to
if iru you now, that renders our meeting for the present entirely out
of thequestion. After we are married, and this unhappy difficulty is
settled that now agitates the country, all shall be explained to your
brother, and we shall both be forgiven. But come, dearest-each
moment is fraught-with danger.. Let us away at once ;, my good horse
m shall bear as both for a mile or two, till I can procure. a carriage-
"ay, nay, HenryI do not urge me-I cannot leave my home--my
dear. kind brother."
"Edith, have I then been deceived in you  I thought you loved
me."
"Oh! Henry, this is cruel. Can you doubt my loveI No--no t
you   ust not. Henry Moody, I do love you!--deeply-fondly, as
woman never loved before. For you I am ready to forfeit' all--ever
claim to my brother's love-to brave the whole world's scorn if nee
-beto become the willing slave of your slightest wish-to peril even
mny soul's eternal salvation if-.."
The. passionate protestations are hushed by a burning kiss imprinted
upodthe ruby lips and, as the officer's arm gently encircles the slender
waist of the confiding girl, he bends his lips close to her ear, and whis-
pers a single word--'Come."      -
One long,agonized look towards her 'qiet, hapby home-one hysteri.
A      . axelamaton-.0, my brother !" and the next moment Edith Letts
clings convulsively{ to her lover, while the gallant steed, as if prdud of
his double  rthen, and quickened by the impatient spur, dashes madly
444ng the road; sending forth flashes of fire front his hoofs as they comb
onte   t with the rocky fragutents in his rapid fight.
.A the sounds of the fast receding footsteps die away upon the still
sli' a man whose whole face was nearly concealed by huge black whisk.
ea long black hair that hung down on either side of his swarthy ace,
lutd a heavy ro mustache upon his lip, stepped cautiously forth from a
luster of Jlitaw'bushes that grew near the gate, within ten feet 'of where
the convorsation had taken place between the officer and the maidbe,
The    it"ugewas dressed like a comnon sailor, in 'wide=legged, duck
tteusers and tarpaulin hat; and although the weather WaS nusually
wa , he wore a heavy pea jacket of coarse njaterial, buttnned up close
is throa, evidently as a uta'ter of disguise rather than comfort,
"Echetamy gallant Colonel eaid-the stranger, after he had peered
uiessly aboui him .  every direction until he had apparently satis-

ti


THE EMPRESS O9V'THE ISLES; OR,
efis himself that there were no liateners near, "so this is the way you
keep your faith with -thosa you .employ to-eater for you in the:article-
of petticoats. First you trump up-a story to Sir Francis about getting
that, old tiger, Bill Johnson, into hispower, and at the same time you
are laying plans to get his pretty daughter into your's. I am foiled in
ay attempt to carry the little beauty off, and on my return you refuse
to pay over the two hundred pounds, but send me up here after this
hew prize. with a promise of three hundred if I succeed in getting her
safe. to Kingston ;; and then, -just as I am tall ready, my boat here in
ie cove, and only waiting for it to get dark, you step in and carry her
off yourself. To-morrow .I will make a demand on the colonel for the
whole amount, and if be refusesI am inclined to think that a hint
from we concerning a -certain Mrs. Moody .and two children in Eng-
land, will bring him to terms. If that fails, I shall be forced to
re'iind him of a marriage ceremony that took.place at Hamilton some
twenty monthssince, between a young lady of that town and a certain
Col. Mooy of the Royal Rifles: But I must be off, for -1 remember
the girl said she expected her brother home within three hours, and if
he should chance to find me here in his grounds, I fear I should fare
worse than I did in: the hands of that young hotspur, Stanly Morris,
who, if I mistake not, will find---'
"fHellpa !- shipmate, aint you out your reckoning, eruisin' about here
in Capt. Ben's grounds ?"
" Good evening, sir," said the disguised stranger, (whom the reader
has doubtless recognized as the ruffian Oliver Shephard,) without, how-
,ever, replying to the question which had been thus suddenly put to him
by a genuine specimen of an English sailor, who came rolling in through
he open gate with a regular sea-going swagger, that not one landsman
out of five hundred could imitate successfully.
- " Good evenin,'-shipmate," replied the sailor. "But I say, didn't I
hear ye saying' summit about Stanly Morris just as I up helm and
squared away down -through. theogate; here ?"
"It isavery probable that you did," responded the spy; '(-Lieutenant
orris has been arrested .and imprisoned on the charge of having
recently visited French Creek, and plotting with the notorious pirate
fill.Johnson, against the peace of the Colonial Government."-
. "Avast ! there, shipmate," broke in the sailor, "I know all that are
lingo, and know too that Stanly Morris is just as -innocent of anything
against this government, as that -little angel inside o' Capt. Ben's cot-
tage there. It's all the 'doin's o' that infernal sneakin shark Oliver
lisphaid. Blast his black heart, if he, ever crosses Steve Marvell's
ljawse, he'll get a broadside that'll smash his figure-head and carry away
iowie of his top-hamper, I know. - Ye see, mate-es I've-knowed Stably
iver ince.lie's been in the navy, and I knowed his mother, too, her as
died there in Kingston a few years ago, and if ever there was an angel
led in Canada, old Mrs, Morris was onegand Lieut. Stanly is another:
Dnt=[ say, you haint told inc what your'e cruisia' round here for with-
out showis' your colors."
Swhyreplied the villain, somewhat confused, "I knew that Capt;
Benas you call him, was a most, particular friend of the young Lien-
te ant, and as he has considerable influence with several membersof

-  ~  ~A~g ~Jt4o.

17

nykne  -t .came up here to- ask him to go down asd see what can
bene tow   dd-setturg' him at liberty.
' rel didp yot see thel captain ?" asked the sailor, ginning to eye
frgeouipknQu soxihewhat -suspieionsli
a, ivhae not; he is nt at, home, I think =Indeed I believe there
n     one iti the cet:tage atfprese t,Tor Ihave severAl times rapped and
self at -thedoor, without obtaiiingi y response.
:  an instant the conviiation  fshed fpunthae sailor's mind that th.
'itanger was not just whathe seemed, tad he was ainiost sure that he
is  robber, whose errand to the cottage was plunder.
g non here;shipmatie," he eang  ut, as?:thn thought entered his
sad" jest y rheazve to here ti01-1 take a look about the ,house "and
ident ;tom'  to ee whether his-reqest  oemplidwith er not
the saildra ,    raay t tth ' d Or if-the cottage, whhhe entered
ther n kockn;dafter satisng hnself that the
wai             ity desefte- fdr, -one after another, he looked: into
e     -ty room,ad found ebi all as silent es the grAve-he returned to
he lawnwhere h had 'left the  'disg ised spy, but that individal had
suddenly disappeared  and as it was now quite dark the puzzled
sailor din't observe-a small sai-boal t hiding noiselessty along Within a
te i yards of the Sh re, heading to ards Kingston'which looked mar-
'eionely like teae one id which we'dsaw the villain Shephard take his
departure in so much haste from Linda's Island.
CIIA   T~is1   1V.

r           Td

A MUsOTHERS osa  i'-'  VAIN EAnen-A PRIsow CNPcFRRNCn-ss-
- , ri N-AN £ENCOUNSTER 4ND Ics RESU3LTS.
I am bound
Upon a vbeel oflire, that my own tears'
Do seald ike moite lead.
*so L-an.
TIlE readet has already learned, in the foregoing chapter, that ,the
name of the beautiful girl who, in the blind infatuation of her love, had
- deserted her happy,. quit home in company with that British officer,
wvas Edith Letts; and it is proper to remark here, that she, with a
brother some three years older than herself, were the survivors of their
family. _ Their parents had both been dead for more than five.years,
leaving to=their children, Benjamin and Edith, more than thirty thou-
sand pounds, in bank stock ,and money, together with one of the:fiuest
estates in Canada West. But neither- brother nor sister hsd any de-
sire to mingle with the heartless throngs in the fashionable world, who
looked upon wealth alone as the true- standard of human greatness -
and so, after spendingone winter .in Kingston, they removed to thm
beautiful cottage on the -shores of the bay, whern; for more than fou,

'      . z
s
w  .N


is

THE E M PRES Off "THK  IS L S OR,

years,they had lived retired and almost alone-happy in the enjoy-
ment of wealth that enabled them to relieve the wants of the indigent
poor and ha-py in the :mutual enjoyment of each other's love. But in
an unlucky  our, Edith became acquainted with Col: I9oocdy,, during
one of her visits to a'friend in? the city, and as he was allowed by all to
be the hands West man in the. British army,.a most perfet gentleman
in his' manners, it is littlewonder that the gentle, pure-hearted girl
-should feel flattered by the very marked attention she received from
-so universal;a.favorite. It is little wonder that when the triple hypo-
crite, who had already two living wives, poured into her ears the.story
of "his love{ In -words, df burning eloquence, and: besought her, for her
sake and his:own, to keep., it a secretfrom, her brother,-alleging as a
reason;that they had- quarreled ;ocee, and should a knowledge of their
intimacy come to his ears, it might lead to another quarrel, the result
of which would doubtless prove fatal .to one o bo -.-little wonder is
it, I say, that the guileless maiden should have learped to love the
serpenttongued libertine, and that fear for her dai-ling brother's safety,
or that- of the man she loved,:should have kept: her silent, and her
brother in ignorance of liis pet sister's passion.
That she did love the vile, black-hearted villain, and'that her brother,
who almost worshiped his gentle sister, remained ignorant of her love-
witness the parting scene of the .half-distracted girl from her cottage
home.
Stephen Marvell, the sailor whom we left there on the lawn, sadly
puzzled to contrive what could have become of Miss Edith, or where
the stranger could have gone so suddenly, was perhaps thirty years of
age, and resided with his mother in a neat little cottage, nearly half a
mile from that of the Letts. Steve's mother had been the nurse of
Edith in her infancy, and Steve himself had been .young Benjamin's
instructor in nautical'matters, and first learned him to manage a sail-
boat in the harbor of Kingston, and afterwards a large craft on Lake
Ontario. About a year previous to the time of Edith's elopement,
Steve had received his 'discharge from the navy, in which he had
served for several years, and almost immediately took charge of a beau-
tiful little schooner-rigged yacht, belonging to Capt. Ben, as Steve
called his young patron.
He had been in the habit of visiting the cottage as often as twice
every day during Benjamin's absence to Montreal, to see if Edith
wanted any little errand executed, and hewas a good deal astonished
at not finding her at home, knowing that she was not in the habit of
going out in the evening; and when she did so, it was always with her
brother.
- wFormore than fifteen minutes Steve had remained there, leaning
against one of the gate-posts and wondering what. it could all mean,
when a horse came galloping up the road from the direction opposite
to that taken by the Colonel 'and his companion in their flight, and in
another moment Benjamin Letts flung himself'from his jaded animal.
grasped the sailor's hand, and inquired for his sister.
- " Why, the fact is, Capt. Ben, there is some---"  But Steve didn't
finish the sentence, for there was something in the very tone of his
voice that alarmed the returned brother ; and springing past.the sailor

THE, LAItE BRAO,19
ie lfew along the avenue towards the cottage, now dark'and silent, and
entering the little, parlor, he called aloud, first the name of his loved
sister, and- then impatiently for.one of the ,.two servants, - whom be
kne , ought to be about thecottage, for a light.
No voice responded to the call--everything in and about the cot.
tage was hushed as death.
Edith!t Edith ! my sister!" he shouted; but the only answer came
from the faint echoes borne back to his listening ears from the slum+
bering waters of the tranquil bay.
-  Stephen,-have you been here long ?" demanded, the young man, in
a tone that had in it so much of anguish that a tear dimmed the eyes
of the rough. but kind-hearted sailor, as he replied-
"Fraps half an hour; sir."
-" And have you seen Edith-?"
"No, sir---not to-night. I was over here this mornin', and.-she told
me that.she expected you home, early this evenin'"; and. sd when I
comes over a little after dark to see you,.I meets a stranger cruising!
about here, who told me that he had come up from Lieut. Mlorriswho's
harprison at Kingston, to see, you, but he believed there was no one at
ome. I thought he was a suspicious-looking craft--that perhaps.he
was arobher--and so I made sail for the -cottage to see if everything
was shipshape here, and not finding Miss, Edith-about thelace  I run
sbc  owee       a     efthe, stranger, but be was bull down; out of
sight somewhere, and I did not see him since.'
"'And the servants-James and Fanny--have you seen anything of
them " -inquired the brother, now painfully excited by what the sailor
had told him., -y                     Y ectd, ywa tesio
Yes, sit; they was at our, cottage an .hour before sundown, and
 Fanny told mother that Miss Edith had given them permission to spend
- thevening-atra party-that Mary Weston--has to night."
"-Steven," said the ha-distracted young- man, stifling his emotion,
however, by a powerful effort,"mount my horse and go to Mr. Weston's
at once, andinquire of James and Fanny if they know aught of their
mistress' absence from home, and request them to return to the cottage
'~at once "
f Aye, aye, sir," responded Steve, and in a moment he was urging the
r  noble horse forward towards, the rustic, scene of festivity, while. the
,bereaved brother, having procured a light, was making the most diligent
search throughout the cottage, for some clue, that might lead to the
r. mystery of the sister's strange disappearance.
Within anjhour Steve returned, accompanied by the two servants;
but all the information they could give was, that when they left the
cottage, Edith was engaged with her birds and flowers in the par.
br, and was apparently as happy and light-hearted as the birds them.
A selves.
After more than an hour's unavailing search for the lost maiden,
the grief-stricken brother dismissed the servants; and after requesting
c Steve to be at the cottage early on the following morning, prepared to
accompany him to Kingston, he flung himself into a chair in the little
parlor.-.-the very one last occupied by his sister-and buried his.face
in his hands. .For along time he remained there by the open casement.

i


THE H E  IEPitSB OFP THE ' IsLES  OR,
rith the rich- breezeetoying and tossing -his, auburn enrl'to and frAo
chile his very brain seemed. on 'fire with the rapid, confused whirl of
confieting thought. He pondered -ovei in his mind the circumstance
of the stranger's visit tothe cottage; and somehow the conviction fast
ened itelf'upon him that his sister's-sudden disappearance was-in ome
way connected with that event,
At length he -dropped his weary bead upon the sill of the window
and slept.a It was, a fitful, unensy- slumber full' of strange dream;
prom which he was, however, immediately -aroused by' ahand laid gently
,pon.his 'shoulder, and starting to his feet, he beheld Steve. tansg Ui
the little open space just outside the window.'
a What is it, Steve l"-.vas his &amp;st inquiry. ' Why 1thologht
had gone hofne "
Nso, sir. I've been on a cruise down the road. 'and I've fotmd @L-
the way Miss Edith we it."
":Yen havi    Then' in Go6s name tell use quiel"' lmoet sareJmd'
Letts, 'leaping out through the window and grasping the saildr's
eonta1sively .
" Well. then, I've been mor'n two 'niles down the road, and at five
or six ofthe houses where 1 inquired, the 'people told me that just at
dark a man wearing a :cloak and' mounted upon a large, black bor e1
passed along this way, and:neariy'hailf an bout afterwards he return;
riding-nt a Nrions pace, witha female mounted behind him, whom they'
noticed was dressed in white, and had a light shawl thrown over  j
head instead of a bonnet "
.    'Edith !-py siSterY gasped Letts, in a voice so full of
that his very heart seemed crushed by the astounding intelaigen ..
abotlier nionicat 'he was ;dia agaiu, and thg sddsemd  i' - P
8S ve, my sister 'has been lieera'.d &amp;e sne vdie    . fwd in
-frm; but'she must be found-rescueid-li brought baek to her he a.
You, my friend. will lend inc you aid, will you not'?"
C1, Ay, will I, Cap'n lien, while I've a spar left stan'irn. 'When Stove
MIarvell shers off from a friend in distress, may God'e lightning hiie
his figure-head into serub-brooms I"
4Thank you, Stove-I knew that I could depend on you 'Md
now, let's away at once. There are fresh horses in the-stables. - Come."
And ere another quarter of an hour had gone 14, 'Benjamin*Letta and
Steve Marvell were on their way to Kiegston.
Steve remembered what the strange? had told him about 'his. being
sent by Lieut. Morris to the-cottage, and he suggested to Letts that it
would be wdll to have an interview with the young-officer as early as
possible, as he would be able, doubtless, to afford some ino to the
mystery. Letts was satisfied that this would be his true policy, and
,accordingly, as soon as he was able to procure permission from' the
proper authorities, which was not until near noon on the following
day after their-arrival in the city, he proceeded to the prison in which
.Stanly Morris was confined on a charge of treason, and both himself
.ad 'Steve were admitted to an interview with the prisoner.
-Stauly related -to his friends the particulars of-his visit to the island,
his eneauntcr with the villain Shephard, and his immediate arrest on

"I!
I   t
i f
I
'i 1
,i 4
! ,
;
II,
_

T8HE'LAKE BRAVO.                       21
his return to Kingston. He was convinced, from certain portions of
Shepherd's testimony which he gave in on his examination, that he had
been employed to carry off the daughter of Bill Johnson, not by Sir
Francis Bransley, but by Col. Henry Moody, of the Royal Rifles.
Young Letts started, and his lips grew pale at the mention of that
name. Strange that he should not have thought of it before. He
saw it-all now, plainlyenough ; it was the libertine Colonel who =had
done him that foal wrong. In a moment the whole truth flashed upon
his brain. He remembered how, more' than a year before, he had
chastised the brutal villain publicly, for wantonly and grossly insulting
a helpless woman. He remembered the base coward's oft reiterated
threats of vengeand ; and but too well came back the recollection of
certain vague rumors that lie had once heard of an intimacy between
ithe vile wretch and his loved and lost sister.
Driven almost to utter madness -by this new suspicion that had s
su4enly sprung up in his heart, he rushed forth from the prison,
bhreathiung threats of direst vengeance upon the vile sducer of hij
angel s ter.
Like a madman, he sped along the street, to the quarters of the
Colonel, hurling men, women and. children from his whirlwind path a
they .moonseiously i peded his progress.
S Half the width of the city had been traversed in this furious man
ner, when suddenly, as his eye fell upon a group of offices who stood
together in front of a hotel, he singled out' from among e
ereant whom be sought.
"'-Hell-hound ! Damned seducer, die . he yelled, as with a bound
lie that of the; nadened tiger, he sprang in among the astonished
gr9up, and ,seizing his victim by the .throat, he dashed him to the
pavement, and would have strangled him in his fury, had not a dozes
of the by-standers interfered and dragged him 'away. A file of so!.
d ers happened to be  asing at the time, into whose charge he was
ivem,, and when the 'sun went dowe, that night, Benjamin eott wa
chained hand and foot in one of the dreariest darkest cells of the  na
old fortress of William Ifenry, conofned on'a charge of treason gr
erred against him by Col. Henry Moody, the heartless seducer of his
SL~VX.

9

M,
     Y
l   t
r xb
u 7

i


llf  I
, tf
t 4tit t
t
11i
ICI} '!
,t
t
tt!
'lttel  =i

CHAPTER V.
A PAIR OF PRECIOUS vILLAINS-STEVE SHIPS-A SHIPMATS--BoH-HUANDED
MEASURES OF GOVERNRIENT-'STEVE OUT-GENERALS THE COLONEL AND
BAILS UNDER THE FREE FLAG.
9I do-believe you think what now you speak ; but what we do determine, oft we
break."-HAMLET.
IT was some minutes past. nine"o'clock, on the evening ot young
Letts' arrest and imprisonment, as related at the close of the last chap-
ter, that the soldier who mounted guard in the hall of Col. Moody's
quarters, knocked at'the door of that officer's private parlor, and open.
n the door without waiting for a response from within, he found his
commander dressed with more than ordinary elegance, and engaged
before a looking-glass, in giving his glossy whiskers and superb mous-
tache their last exquisite curl. Advancing just two paces within the
door, the soldier stood erect, and touching his cap with true military
decision, he informed the Colonel that a man at the door below wished
o speak with him immediately, on urgent business.
"Whoever he is," said the' officer, "bid him come to-morrow, or at
any other time ; say to him that I am engaged for this evening, and
can -see no one."                                                 Y,
H e    oobademe say, sir," replied the soldier, respectfully, " that his
business concerned you as wellas hiniself; and that his engagements
elsewhere will not permit him to visit you.nAomorrow."
"His-name ?" inquired the Colonel, impatiently; " did he not tell ;
you his name 2
"He did, sir " but said I was not to mention it, unless you refused
to see bm."
which h I do, most positively-; and now, what is it 7'"
t nu (Oliver Shephard, ,sir."
Show him up, instantly," thundered the Colonel, as a frown black
as midnight gathered upon his brow ; and as the soldier hastily re-
treated from the room, something very like a smothered curse was
borne to his ear, from the lips of the handsome officer.
In a few moments Oliver Shephard was ushered into the presence s
of Col. Moody ; but if he had not been previously announced, or had
ot that officer been a great deal better acquainted with him than we
are, he certainly never would have recognized him, so completely was
he changed, so far as appearances are concerned, from the ruffian, as we
saw him there on Linda's Island, or the disguised sailor of the night
previous, which Steve Marvell had so unexpectedly encountered in the
cottage grounds.  He was dressed in a close-fitting and very fashion-.
able black coat, black pants, black gloves, hat and vest, all seemingly
in perfect harmony with his blacker character, except his cravat and,
the bosom of his shirt, which were faultlessly white ; and then his
smooth, unwrinkled face, divested of every particle of beard or whisk-

THE EMPRESS .F THE:ISLES i OI,

22

THE. .LA(E'BEAVO.,--
ers,' token in: 4nnection with a verygenteel out fit, gave 'im omimhi
more the'appearanbe of one-of 'those prim, middle-aged lawyers.wluieh
one meets every five minutes in the courts and=passages of the inner
temple, or a staid, sober clergyman of the Church of Englkdd;-than
the vile miscreant that he really was.
" Shephard," said the Colonel, after he had eyed the intruder' f6"
several seconds, " why have you come hither, when you know I expect-
ed to meet you at another place'-nore than a mile distant, within this
fifteen minutes 2" and the Colonel's eyes glanced impatiently towards
the alabaster time-piece on the side-board.
" "Why, the fact is, Colonel,"-replied Shephard, I thought you might
change yourmind about that first affair, and pay me as you agreed to;
and then you know if you wish my services afterwards, why I 'can get
there quite as soon as you can."
.Olhver Shephard," exclaimed the officer, rather sharply, "why did
you express yourself satisfied, this morning, when I paid-you a hundred
and fifty pounds for a:service that you did not perform ?"
"Simply, Col. Moody, because I could -do no better. 'Tis true' I
did not carry the lady off, but that was not my. fault ; I should have
done it if you had not prevented me by doing the job yourself. And
then it strikes me that I ought to have something for that other
affair.
O " Didyou not propose the terms yourself ?" asked the Colonel, an.
grily; were they not that you were to receive two hundred pounds if
you succeeded I getting the girl safe to Kingston; and nothing, in
case of failure ?"r
"All than is very true, Colonel."
"Then, sir, why do you demand of me money that you have never
earned-?2"
"Because I thought you would pay it."
"Then you are vastly mistaken; I will never pay you a farthing
more than I have agreed"to."
Nor even that, if you could avoid it ; but it strikes me, Col. Moody,
that you will pay the whole, and more- too."
"What mean you?2"
"Nothing more than this-you expect me to act in the capacity of
aclergyman this evening, and unite you in the holy bonds of matri-
"I did expect this service.of you, Oliver Shephard ; but there aro
others who will perform the ceremony I have promised you."
"tAnd what if I should see the girl at once, and whisper in her ear
the intelligence that her brother is in prison upon a charge of treason
preferred against him by yourself."
a I.ha " laughed the Colonel; "Oliver Shephard, you haire
the reputation of being a shrewd lawyer, and I know you to be a subtle.
villain.;, but really! had given you credit for more cunning than 'you
appear to, possess. You will hardly out-general me in this matter- :for;
when you leave this house .it wil be in company;with a file of° soldiers.
You well be kept under arrest till to-morrow morpi'g,. when.tyoif will
e a   erty to whisper what you please-to-the traitor' sister, provided
you can find her," and as he ceased to  a  the Colonel reached for

_  ,


TUE EMPRESWOF TnE wLxa; i,
tie boll. The next, instant his arm fell to his side' as if palsied ; th-
boodforsookhis fce,;andl'the-strong man quivered in every limb as
though behad-been suddenly smitten with an ague fit..
~isa I: haT ri'is companion laughed, eslltingl, in his turn; s
he held a folded paper before the Colonel's eyes,-and then, amomen
after rwards; read nmaclear, deliberate tone-
'Certificate of marriage between- Colonel Henry Moody and Miss
Mary Anhault, of Hamilton, Canada West!"
c In the name oflueifer t'' almost yelled the Colonel, how came that
paper in your possession ?" and he snatched at the certificate, which:
the other held beyond his reach, as he replied :'
"AIt matters not, Col.b Moody; you see I have-it. We lawyers' got
hold of some strange :secrets sometimes ; and now, Colonel, you caa
order up your soldiers as soon as you choose. But stay, I have another
document here whieh i may as well read to you, as it is uncertain when
we-may meet again.'' ,So saying,-the lawyer.spy drew forth from his,
bosom a second paper, folded similar to the first, and comimenced
reading-
'-Landon Hall, Staffordshire, 1832. Married--Lady Juliett-
.".Stop ! demon-fiend----or whatever you- are ; stop and answer
me--
But the lawyer went on, as the bewildered Colonel sank gasping
into a chair--
"cHarrowly, to Cl Henry.-
" ,---s-a1" again gasped the guilty wreteh, as he sat there, writhing;
in convulsive agony ; but he failed to articulate a single word, and there
came forth from his lips an impotent hiss, shrill as that from theex-
panded jaws of a-hoof-trodden adder.'
" Come, Col. Moody," said the lawyer, " order up your soldiers at
once ; I am ready, and I fear if you. delay here much longer, your
bride will grow. impatient"
"1Nay, Shephard," said the Colonel, somewhat recovered from his,
agitation; _"why should we both make fools of ourselves-? Cannot this
matter be arranged without going to extremes V'
" Yes, I think it may."
':" Ia what imanei- 'a 'a
-       t 'eu willpay me two hundred pounds for that. island  fair, the.
other one hundred and fifty, which will make up the whole amount for
that little job of :which you  lieved 'me, and thou a trifle for,my
trouble-say another hundred and ffty-making it altogether- t
hundred." }.
"This is istajioias extortion," said the Colonel, swelling with sup.
pressed rage.
a12 grant itsts'a tri  liko it.; btt then  might demand move,
and'get it to't
Velig if I pay yo  your p;fee, will you perform the-'ceremony tar
nigh t a:*e agreed ?"
X.ese provided yow pay me for that according to our bargain)
"sO course aid you will keep tbessecrets ?"
Ye&amp;-you.ill nake it my. iaterest:tosdo se"
"And gve 'ap those pape rs-{

T 1E   AK 1   A tfO.
" Oh no, Colonel, I he'anotier' prion for thbn:? '.
"how much ".
"cOnly a trifle ;' sar another thousand."
In an instant the Colonel sprang roth his seat. and opening hi see-
taiy, lie took out three bank notes for, fire hundred porid s each 'bhli
he handed to the lawyer. receiving front liii the t  maria; e i i rtif-
cates in return ; and within five minutes the two hiak erted ' r tehn,
.   the libertine Colonel arid' his equally unprincipled -awseoiate 'left the
apartment for the' purpose of eonsunmating one of the most iiterij
acts in the whole catalogue of erime.
Steve Marvell, whom the reader will recollect we left there in the
person with the'yonn r lieutenant, as soon as he partially reover-ed' fron
the surprise into which Lettsa'dden departure had thrown hini. almo ii
immediately left the'cell. promising to see his friend again as soon is
possible. and set out after Letts.
He did not find him. however; and after runniase u-ae street, and
down another, for more than half an hour, he suddenig came to'.a dead
halt at the corner of two streets, where he remained for neareffe ve
minutes in a perfect puzzle as to what course he should steer next:
At length, as if inspired with some new idea, he darted away again
down the streets like a locomotive ; but ere he had gone ten rods, he
espied. close to him, a perfect giant of a sailor coming down. Steve
took the outide of the side-walk in order to let his slipmate gd'elear
of him; and the other sheered the same way for 'the sanH s  reason'
"'Hard a starboard "shouted Steve, when he saw that there was
danger of a collision.
"Port ! hard a port !" roared the giant, for the same reason; arid
both the sailors 'sheered the wrong way again.
z         Main-topsail haul. you bugger !* screamed Steve.
"Hard up your helm, you' bloody mndrine !" yelled the big one ;and
the next inoment the two tars wont headlong afoul of each 6ther- viith
a rash, a concussion, and rebound, that 'capsized some half a doana
of the peaceable land'crafts in the neighborhood.
" Helicla ' I say, shipmnate " said Steve, witle the blood spouted.'
out of'his mouth and nose, and lie' Iathered about there among the
crowd like a ninety-barrel "synern" in his deat h-'furry"--" blast ine
if I don't b'ieve you runy into me a purpose" and he began epuariiig'
S      off for a bout in real earnest, when the stranger seized him by thle arm'
and benling donrr his'lips close to hip ear, he whispered something that
caused Steve Marvell to utter two guieh exclainations--one of nget
and apparent surprise, and the other sounded very much like adngira"'
'}    tion and joy.
After a few moments of low, earnest conversation together, Stev
E dbkthe arm' o his gigantic cenirade, and' the two started of together
ata rapid pace, towards the southern etren\ity of the city, wi i i
if the reader feelsinclined, we will, follow'ther; and .noi that we
E.   have got beyond ear-shot of thebSpiiierogrw deh, had   athei
about the spot where 'the eollision' took pade, ill inform yin wha-
the whispered words were that'ecaused Stove to utter those twooa
olantions.
F =+     Inthe first place, the stranger sailor informed him of the arrest of

0


IIF
Ip1IflI

Letts, which he had himself witnessed nearly-half an hour previously;
then he told him that'he had discovered where Col. Moody had placed
Edith, and offered to assist Steve in removingher beyond the reach
of the villain's power. But it was the stranger's name that caused
Steve Marvell to utter. the..second exclamation. That name, spoken
aloud in the streets  f.Kingston, would have aroused the whole British
garrison.to arms in fifteen minutes. Do you not guess who this rough
giant sailor was ? - No ?:. Well, then, permit me to whisper it to you.
very gently--it would scarcely be prudent to speak it incautiously in
the crowded streets of Kingston, and in, broad daylight too. Listen,
then. It was Bill Johnson, the Pirate of the Lakes!
As Steve and his companion passed on through the city, they every-
where beheld large. placards, posted up, the purport of which was, that
any persons suspected of plotting.against the government, or known to
express themselves in favor of a rebellion, were liable to be arrested,
upon the complaint of any respectable citizen, and if found guilty, they
would be punished with the, utmost rigor of the law, which was death
or transportation for life ;. and their property would be confiscated, one-,
half of it going to government, and the other. to the person making the
complaint.
"Confiscation " said Steve, after he had read one of the hand-bills,
"dam me, if I wouldn't like to con-fiscate the whole infernal crew of,
'em into the St. Lawrence."
As they gained the outskirts of the city, they halted, and Johnson.
pointed out to Steve alone house which stood at a little distance in
the country, and informed him that Edith was there.-
He also told him that he had been in town two days in disguise,
waiting an opportunity to see or communicate in some manner with
Stanly Morris, of whose imprisonment he had heard almost immedi-
ately after it took place. He was determined to release the young
officer in some way, but the prison was so strictly guardedithat he had
not been able to accomplish anything as yet.
" And now," added the lion-hearted old smuggler, "we must rescue'
this girl from the clutches of that' infernal villain first, and then we'll
find a chance to work for the boys afterwards. But look here, Steve, ,
how are we to get away with her?  I came here in a steamer, andif
we attempt to pass through the city so as to take the ferry boat for the-
American side, I fear we shall 'be- discovered ;, and whatever we do,
niust be done before night, as it is probable the Colonel will be out this
evening; and just as likely as not he will remove Edith to some place
where we can't find her to-morrow.
"KI have it," said Steve, the moment his companion ceased to-speak.
'  urrah ! I'll work a Tom, Og' traverse on 'em beautiful. Look ere
Capt. Ben's got a little beauty of a.craft up there by the cottage-a ra'al
rattler to sail.. She's Pa ned after Miss Edith, and she's almost as
handsome too. Now, down here in the stables at the King's head,
there's two as fast ,horges as can lefoupd jn the Midland District.
-Capt.. Ben and I rodet them _don jAst night. Don't you see, we can
get the horsea out up here, get the girl started, and in anihour from
- now we'll have her safe aboard of her little namesake ; and if we don't,

work to wind'ard of Beelzebub, jr., on this tack, my name aint Steve
Marvell."
"Capital!" exclaimed Johnson, when he had heard Steve's plan;
'excellent ! And now, while you go for the horses, I'll see Edith, and
manage to have her all ready against yourreturn."
At the expiration of half an hour, Steve had the two horses at the
gate that opened into the field in front .of the lone house, and in less.-
than thre minutes the stalwart old smuggler made his appearance,
almost bearing in his sturdy arms the drooping form of the nearly
heart-broken girl, whom, as gently as he could, he had made acquainted
with her brother's imprisonment, and the base villany of- the libertine
Colonel.
"1You'll have to sail Big Pete, Captain," said Steve, "and I'm think-
ing you'll have to take charge of Miss' Edith, too, for I'm 'fraidI'll
tuible overboard if.I undertake to hold -n to an extra deck-load.'
Very well. Steve, I'll carry Miss Edith ; and now let us be off, for
that old she dragon in there swears she will inform the Colonel.if she
can find him, and have him after us with his whole regiment of Rofal
Rifles."
Old Bill vaulted into the saddle, and taking the weeping girl in his
arms just as a mother would her infant, loosened the reins, and the
next moment the. two noble-steeds were covering the ground at:
killing pace towards the so recently deserted home ofthe maiden.
It was but a little past noon when they arrived at the cottage, and
after seeing Edith aboard the yacht, which lay at a little wharf not ten
rodsfrom the gate of the lawn, they set to work removing the furni
ture of the cottage, arguing that, as it was all liable to be confiscated,
it was better to be on the safe side and carry itj11 off  With such. a
right good will did they ply their bqsy task, that before sunset- every
moveable thing was safely stowed away on board the schooner. which
was immediately got under weigh-and, under easy sail, with the Ameri-
can flag flying at. her main peak, she was kept standing off and on
close in with the land, waiting to see what would happen during th.
night.
In the meantime, CoL Moody, ignorant of the escape of his viearn,
had, as we have already seen, secured the services of the villain:Shep
hard to aid him i his nefarious scheme, which was nothing less than
getting the infatuated girl more completely than ever into his power,
by imposing upon her a false marriage. It would appear that the
woman in whose care Edith had been left, had failed' to execute her
threat made to the smuggler, or else she had been unable to -find him;
for, as we already knows he did not leave his quarters till after nin
o'clock, and then Edith had been on board the yacht some nine
hours.

THE EMPRESS OF. THE ISLES; OR,

i1
ItI
'ii

06

Tjg LAKI BL&amp;VO.
1

;,27


THIS hMPatR l 'o Tirn' SLES; OIL.

CHAPT ER VI.
- FhE HUB AND CR--TnREATS Or vENGEANCEn'rIIE ATTACI--'"'r  gggE  '
GLER'S PARTING BLESSING.
"rounds ! show' me what thoul't do;
WouI't weep?, woui't fight ? woui't fast ? woul't tear thyettf
Woul't drink 'up Esil ?-eat a crocodile'?
1'll do'$."               HAMLET.
NVR was there a summer's evening more serenely, more gloriosly
beautiful, than that on which Col. Moody, accompanied by his v.ile
accomplice, left his quarters, with the fell purpose in his heart of cosu-
fitting an act more heinous, in the sight of the Omnipotent God and
all good men, than even murder itself. It tas murder-murder of the
deepest, blackest dye-the murder of female innocence.
Not a cloud specked the clear blue heavens, or dimmed the splendor
of the bright-suminer moon, now at its full, and all nature seemed gladly
whispering back its thanks to the "Giver'of all good," as the soft mur-
muring breezes gentle stirred 'the waving grain, or toyed with the dark
luxuriant foliage of fruit and ornamental trees that skirted the way-
side beyond the limits of the city, traversed by these two demons'in
human form, bound on an errand more befitting the wild howlings' of
the midnight' hurricane and the character of the arch fiend himself,
than such a lovely sunier evening and men claiming the rank, holding
the position, and clothed in the garb of gentlemen.  -
Regardless of the enchanting-beauty of the night, and in silent con-
munion with their own dark thoughts, the two villains rode on without
interchanging-a single word, till the gate in front of the lone house was
gained, where they were met by the woman in whose care Edith had
been left, who, before they had time to dismount, informed the Colonel
of the escape of hia-victini, and all' the 'circumstances connected with
it, so far as she knew them. She "had, she said, immediately sought
him in the city, but being unable to discover his address, she was
obliged to return, and wait as patiently as she could for his arrival.'
" What were these two men like 7" impatiently demanded thb Colonel,
as the woman concluded her account of the flairi.
"One of them was a handsome-looking sailor, dbout thirty, I should
think, with reddish whiskers and hair, light blud eyes, and very fair,
red cheeks."  .
"Steve Marvell, that dare-devil. sailor who has been so much in
company with that traitor Beu Letts, of late !" exclaimed the Colonel.
"And the other----what sort of a man was he 7"
"Why, sir, he was a monstrous big fellow, dressed in regular sailor
style, canvas trousers, Gurnsey frock, tarpaulin hat and all; and then
his face was almost covered with black, shaggy whiskers ; but I could
see a great ugly scar here on his left cheek, and -oh I such eyes as he
had--they were just like two live coals of fire, and ho seemed to look

TE LAKE. BIMVO.
right through one. 1, tell you, he was the first man that ever made
me tremble and wilt right down, by looking at me.'
"Bill Johnson.!" said Shephard, with: startling emphasis; I caught
a glimpse of that figure running after a couple of raftenien in King
street about noon to-day, and I was almost certain at the time that it
was him- I stopped foria few moments, and kept any eye on him till"I
saw him run against thia same Steve Marvell, and then they beg n
whispering together, when it occurred to me that Old Bliull hatvisited:
I'ngston for the purpose of endeavoring:to get that boy-lientesanh nZ
of person. I was very much engaged at the time ; but as it was prok'
Vie. that the pirate would remain in town two 'or three days, I merely
men4ione4 my e44iciens this .evening, as .I came alog towards yorn
(Dhrter$s,$0 ;tCpg4s, of the dia    ado....
Here the speaker was interrupted by uehb loud latter of! i a
iningled wth the rattle and c angof iron scabbirdand the x
momentta party of ,mQre than forty dragoons came sweeping down 'the
gate, their c omm er,.a handsome young officer in a 'captain's uitormn,
informed:OoLMoody that the notorious 3illJohnoon had .been seen
ia the city that afternoon, and that parties had, been sent off in every
direction to iuercept him-the whole garrison were under arms, and
every avenue to the citystristy guarded. ,' tiehad, 'ust heard, ashe
eaue through the market lace, that two, sailors, one of.whom answered
thedescripion   yen of te pirate, had  een seen to take that road
about noon,  d  though
.What he would haveuttered is a matter of uncertainty, for at that
mameiFm et 0l- l;Moody shouted-
.   thecottage Qf the traitor Lettsj and ,pn  irin elf' at t
Ma     t e trooaway they il                    e           haggin,  rf  he
rad towards the cottage.
I ws ten o elook, and Edith Letts    there on a sofa in the eaii
of the beautiful yacht, almost insensible  om the very intensity of het
anguish. .Reorse, shame, despair, and bitter soulsikening conviction
of her error, had all combined to rush her down. to the lowest d-epth
Of human woe; and she lay there writhing in mental agony, driven4-to
the-verge of ienanit.
Thesmuggler and Steve were seated together near the helm, en d
.         ma low eareta conversation, while the little craft, with her  eet0
hauled chock aft, wei creeping along, barely moving through the wate
sufficiently to give her steerage-way, and not a hundred  homs from
the beach, directly in front of the cottage
Suddenly the attention of Steve and his companion- was arrested by
the quick, confused tramp of many horses, and a moment afterwards
the whole troop of dragoons came into full view in a turning of the road
nearly a quarter of a mile distant. On they came, sweeping along dow
the road. ike a thundergust.
The smuggler was quietly smoking a cigar, and as the dragoons drew
rein on the beach, almost in the very edge of the water abreast of the
yacht, hbleft his seat beside Steve there by.the helm, and walking foig
wrd, he folded his arms, and leaned carelessly against the main-mast,
his right foot restinag upon what appeared .to be a shapeless mass of

1T 4ytli
,
Ali


0

80

THEi EM1PfE S oP 'riF. ISLE~S; OR,

canvas, and his bright, black eyes fixed upon tlie'dragoo s ringed along
tbeotbeaclh.                                               n
" Stephen Marvell !"- shouted Col. Moody," I'eommand you, in the
nae of our Sovereign'Lady the'Queen,' to surrender yourself, and
ttl=~f-.--:
"You be' d--' !' you 'and your Sovereign 'Lady' the Queen, too I"
yelled Steve, interrupting the -Colonel, and shaking his fist in defiance
towards the troopers.4
"Insolent dog!" roared the now foaming Colonel, " if you do'.not
instantly recall those words, and give yourself up at once, I11 order my
nien to fire' upon you'; and should you succeed in escaping with that
pirate whom you have there with';you, ;by heaven! I'll drag your mother,
who lives near by, froii herbed, and shoot her downifor being the
mother of'such a disloyal whelp P"
$teve was Anute with horror and-astonishment at the very thought
of 'this fiendish threat ; but the old smuggler left his position by the
main nmast, and going to the-side of the, little vessel, as if he would-get
as near as possible- to his enemies, he bared his head, and raising his
right arm towards heaven, he replied to the infernal threat of'the brutal
officer, in a voice so terrible that it sent a thrill of terror through the
hearts of all who heard it, and. the sturdy dragoons, who feared not
death itself, quivered there in their saddles as they listened.
" Col. Moody," he-said, "such threats as you have just made becomes
you 'well, foul blot that you are upon the fair escutcheon of manhood;
ut.they are scarcely in .keeping withthe character of a British officer.
And so you think to intimidate that brave, noble'hearted, man there,
by such hellish threats as these?  Tis will, most, valiant Colonel;' and
since yor choose to bully, I too Wilt threaten. 'And I think there are
some few persons in Canada that will vouch for t'he truth of what Ip say,
when I tell you that for more than twenty years Bill Johnson has
never forfeited his word to friends or enemies. And now listen to
me, Col. Moody. Dare but to execute that fiendish threat, or even
repeat it in my hearing, and-by the ever living God! you shall die a
death of more exquisite torture than was ever thought of, even by
those monsters of cruelty the Spanish - Inquisitors.  Like a sleuth
bound I'll follow ye. to the death ; and though ye were hedged in
by every sword and bayonet in the whole British army, I'll drag ye
from their protection, and with this good right hand PIl pleck your
black heart, still Warm and palpitating, from your felon carcass ! As
God'Almighty hears me, I will do it !".
There was -something so awful, so almost -superhuman, in the tone
and manner of the giant old smuggler, as he stood there in the bright
moonlight, with bared head, and upraised arm, hurling back his defi-
ance and, dreadful threat in the teeth of the epauletted brute, that
'a cold. death-like shudder shot like an icebolt through every frame,
and; many of the dragoons bowed their heads to their very saddle-
bows, as if some terrible phantom was hovering in the air above them,
;and 'they thus sought to shut out the horrid vision.
For five long minutes they sat there on their horses, as motionless
as statues ; .and- all' the time the yacht was forging slowly ahead, keep-
ing along down just about the same distance from the shore.

At length:the Colonel' rused himself from the do ansb     at
farf   threat and then cane' the quick, stccessive orders of.-.°
" Right wheel I Forward.---trot  Fire.! atar' fth  aha da's t4e6h6oopers'caine
abreast  ! the yacht, their pistols 'were d scharged'at her until the
last dragoon had 'delivered his flie- but St    d hi
regained unharmed.                                  ic   panion
"Yoir:have heard my threats, col.'  ody!" shouted thesa
" and now takemy blessing?"                  ujuggler,
He tore away the mass'of canvas; and displayed a  eautiful brass
canyon, to-the priming'of which be applied his ghted  ar   d the
little vessel reed like a frightened thing with 'the con inar, andthe
or fi'e of the troopers Nillheavily to the ground, and the n .  u
the yatch swung off before the wind, while Steve and Old  hol m ted
back their "good night" to' Co!. Moody.

''4~
"4
as
K  ' rt

j  rOx IIAPTEfl VIE
HANFoRD's LANPNG-T     TEERMIT. OF THE GEN EE-ARRVAL OF THE
YACHT-RECOGNITION.+BIT A MYSTERY STILL--TnE EIANIAC MAIDEN.
A hopeless darkaess settles o'er my fate'
I've seen the last look of her heavenlyeves
.ve heard thefanst sound of her mbessed voie
ve seen the fair frnn from my sight depart-
'iy dOom i   - losed..       COUNT ASI
a ,the western side of the Gnd1
O~ithewesernsid oftheGenesee: River, about a mile: and i half
below the famous falls where Sam Patch took his as  le  and sonal
.six miles above the town of Charlotte, which, as a l ap, and some
aware, stands near the shores of Old Ontario, is to be seenoras a
the period of which I am writing, a rude wooden swhar, f t gis to
ruin; an old dilapidated, tumble-down warehoue, thar, as going to
had stood there,-the resort of myriadsn owalowse that looked as if it
since the landing of the Pilgrims. And then there were two or three
little, old-fhshioned 'houses, uninhabited for a longer time br than
any one in the neighborhood could remember;, almost tvegback than
briars and rank weeds and holding an even race ith the mouldering
wharf, and their neighbor, the craggy old warehouse in their wayero
utter--nothing.                                           way to
The appearance of the natural scenery in the immediate vicinity
strictly in keeping with. that of the wharf and bmildings. The steep,
rugged banks, in many places inaccessible even to an Alpine soatWere
everywhere covered with a dense growth of brushwood allfesooe
and tangled with an. almost' endless variety of wild a'ins fetooned
hiding from the traveler as he passes alon the river,  ves, entirely
ledges and bare crags, where immense number o' the nan"cabrupt .
heads," and enormous rattle-snake  mak   thr' .oathsome  copper
place bears about it such an air of utter loneliness and desolation, that


-32

TUs ILES; O,

'  ; li
I ,l,
,i
,    t
,
,+
f
, ;  }4
'''  I
lj 4
Ir,'
I   ,
, ,,
. "
,
;.,_
'
II}'
i
I, i

you"f'e1 .ehl ofgm  terions loomi creep through your veiw, as you
stand n ga    upon the dreary picur  events yaouglide by upop The
4ec of the   ek-passing steame       -     .    .
-   h is  andsrd's Lauding on the Geuesee ,ior, os e  said befre,
ty          ars    That wharf, the old Warehouse, and. the
twor three ofher buildiigs, had been built there by somebody pu so
bglck that no ne;remembered by whom,.or forwhat purpose-
 It wasa soft, balm  afternoon, on one off  ugl 1t4 s° of u A smthat
aa of -ost s in    a apearanee miglt   ve been segg eated on
o e corner of the .shart at this very landmg&amp;  Zay be m ight have
been see, and sohenight,.provided any one .ad bnieun sight  J;ut
et.us suppose orsel esnear enough to the  tra ger to. bob. eend
cannot tell you what we shmal bear, but let us lie .  Zf aun eas
a right to be alone and talk to himself, we certainly have an equal
right to creep up close to him, and get at his secrets if we can.
So here we are, in a most gratifying position, both for seeing and
hearing; and now let~us first geatify our eyes by taking a good look at
bim, and then we shall be prepared to listen more attentively.
At the first glance, you woid;say that the stranger before us was
one far past the age usually alotted to'man, from the circumstance of
his being very much bent, as with the accumulated weight of many
years; and then you observe that his lihir,'1ong and f *own  as nwo-
an's,- and  the venerable beard that fi low d'o*in on 'his beast, are
both white-aye, as white as the foam-crest of the storm-tossed billow.
A second glance, and ou. see your error, for his brow and face, where
it is not covered, withbear d are both smooth, ,very fair, and unmarked
b a single line by whieh we tell'the rapid foiotstep of old Time after
have passed the half-way house of life.- And ten his eyes of deep,
liquid blue, still retain much of that indescribable something-4 call it
the soulifire-which barns out, and leaves the orb of vision Jstreless
and dim, long before the busy old reaper has fixed the seal of;.extreme
"old age upon the  irow. You are very positive now, that the stranger
is not an oldi man ; forty or forty-five. not older than that, certain;
and yet you can scarcely reconcile in your mind the vivid contr idictioni
betweenn his fair, unwrinkled features, and 'the long flowing locks and
-heard of snowy whiteness.
Did you never dream that sorrow and care, long wearyears of deep
remote, may blanch the hair, and 'still leave no traces of their handi-
work upon the features-
Go uldwe but read the hidden mysteries of the human heart as we
do the pages of an open book, how .many such instances should we find
in thi busy, every-day world of ours.-
One look at the stranger's garb, and it needs but a single, hasty
glance to take in the whole ; for 'tis but a simple vesture, so far as you
can see, composed of a single garment. A. long, flowing robe, r gown
of some coarse material, like those worn by the palmers of theolden
time, when they went forth, staff in band, on their long, weary pilgrim.
ages to the Holy Land.
His head and feet are bare, and thus, you see, his whole exterior

-THE LAKI BRAVO.
costume is made up of that one garment, of coarse gray fabric, gathered
close about his throat, and falling quite down to his ancles..
But let me whisper to you a secret, and then we will listen together
to catch another, if possible, from th4 lips of the stranger ; mine first,
however ; listen :
That strange, mysterious being, there before us, is called the Hermit
of the Genesee; sometimes, the River Hermit. For fourteen years,
be has made his solitary home here in this lone, gloomy retreat ; not
in either of those tottering old shells, called houses, there ; no, no. even
he would shun such desolation.  You look incredulous, but I assure
you it is very true. His. home is here, but a few reds from where we
are seated.
Do you see yonder projection of rocks almost at the top of the bank
above that old ruined rail-way, which was once used to let goods down
to the warehouse ? that thicket up there, where the leaves look greener
and darker than they do all around them ? - The roots of those bushes
grow in the damp soil, watered by a little fountain that gushes out of
tie cold, bare rock above them.
You might pass up and down the river, narrow as it is here, scarce
three hundred feet in width, a thousand times ; or sit here on the old
wharf for months; or travel along the road that runs within twenty
feet of the brow of the cliff, for years, and never dream that that
wild, dark nook up there, was inhabited by man, 'Tis true, neverthe-
less.  There is a dark, rude grotto in that green nook, and that
grotto is the Hermit's home. There are those living near here, who
well recollect the day lie first came to the landing. le remained some
three months at the little cave, and then he was gone for two whole
years, no one knew whither. At length he returned-that was four-
teen years ago---and ever since then, he has lived there solitary and
alone.
Those who knew him when he came first, say that he was very hand-
some, richly dressed, with beautiful brown hair and beard; and he was
as erect as yonder graceful young walnut, that you see over there on
the opposite bank.
There are a few here with whom he converses freely, upon all subjects
that do not concern himself. Of his own history, or his former con-
dition in life, he can never be induced to speak ; and in all the long time
thit he has dwelt here, there is not a single person who has l.een able
to learn even his name.
There, now that I have told you all that is known here of the hermit,
t   we will listen, if you please, for you observe he is speaking. Listen :
"'Tis well. The tune will come, and sooner than I had dared to
hope. This intelligence, slight, and imperfect as it is, has given me
4 ck full ten years of a life that I had hoped was well near ended.
With such men as Papineau in the Lower Province, and McKenzie in
the West, to cry them on, the people of the. Canadas will yet rise in
their might, and shake the strong pillars of the British government to
Sthe very throne.
k-Iknow nothing of the immediate causes which have prompted
these late exhibitions of popular feeling; nor do I care. All I now
ask is, an opportunity to wreak my utmost vengeance upon that thrice
'A

r
A 1 t
r
fi
z. _
i ,.
4 n.
h, 1
1
\v
yY
i Y}
C j
t 4
S
;N

8

!SK
3

I'1f
II
+  itf 2( !1 4
t       '+  It
.t
tl ,- t;ll i' t
t,
tu
I ,
t        1 '
t          ti
f } V11 i
ttis


84

THE EMPRfSS OF THE ISLES ; OR,

damned villain, whose infernal machinations first dashed the cup of
bliss almost untasted from my lips, and then drove me, like anunquiet
spirit, forth from my Eden home, rendering my whole existence liv-
ing -hell.
"I have no hope, no wish, nothing now on earth to live for, but
revenge.
re0O, the very thought is madness ! ~ I, who was and an the rightful
heir to one-of the proudest baronies in Britain, the possessor of titles,
wealth unbounded, happiness little less than that of heaven ; all--all-.
0, God ! spare me my reason till my revenge shall have been accom-
plished-    Richard Delamerc-Oliver Shephard-or whatever name
you may please to assume-there is a long arrear of hate to be settled
between us when we meet. But this is idle; henceforth I will be calm
till the time comes, and then my motto shall be, " actions, not words."
Thus abruptly the hermit' terminated his soliloquy, and now he sits
there in silence, and gazes sadly about him, as if his tnirnd was not
altogether right.
It is not much, you will say, that we have gained by listening.
True, it is not much ; but eves-droppers, you know, must not always
expect to bear everything just as they could wish. We have learned,
at least, that yonder Hermit has once been happy ; that he has been
deeply, foully wronged, and has still a heart and will to avenge that
wrong.
We have learned, too, that the base ireteh--Oliver Shephard-.-is in
some way connected with the Hermit's previous history ; and that he
has at some time borne' another name than that by which he is now
known. Do you remember with what emphasis the Hermit spoke that
name ; and how his eyes glared, as if the mere sound excited some
latent passion-long smothered in his bosom ?
Richard Delamere ! We will recollect that name.
Well, thus much we have gained, and with this we should be satisfied.
We must, perforce ; for the Hermit is silent, and shows no disposition
to enlighten us further.
But look there ! Is it not a beautiful sight?  Down there, not
twenty rods below the old wharf, where the river winds abruptly around
that bold, wooded point, that shuts out all the view beyond. See-first
a graceful spar, taper and glossy with bright varnish, comes pointing
out by the dark green foliage. Then a white sail gleams in the warm
sunlight, followed by another, and another ; and stealing gently into
view from the cover of the green head-land, you see a magnificent craft,
in all .the perfect symmetry of sails and cordage, and graceful spars,
gliding silently along like the shadow of a fleeting cloud, upon the
gorgeous summer landscape.
There are two persons only upon the deck of the beautiful little
vessel, both of whom we recognize at the first glance-Steve Marvell
and --. But the Hermit anticipates us. He too has recognized the
stalwart old smuggler, disguised as he is ; and, as the yacht ranges up
alongside the old wharf, he speaks his name aloud, but in an absent
tone, as if all unconscious of what he speaks---" William Johnson.-
" You know me, it seems," said the smuggler, in reply, as he leaped
upon the wharf with a line to make the yacht fast.; "you have cer-

THE LAKE BRAVO.
tanly the advantage of me, for, to my knowledge, I never a
eore.,IneeswYU
"William Johnson,you are much older than.I am; but I remember
well when you were driven from yourhm     n  Caaabteevile
miscreants who shared your wealth amn thomeinCanada by the vile
and themoment he    r-plyfEdith Letts came forth from the cabin;
and thes m oetherhey fell upon the Hermit, she bounded to his side,
S  raspng both his hands, she said:   ,d              h    e
J  , I have looked so long for you, and now won't we b
Just twelve hundred brothers I have got now, all dressed i  merry ?
ha! ha!"nre--ha l
P oor girl, she was a raving maniac!
CHAPTER        VIII.
INQUIRIESAND EXPLANATIONs-THE INTERIOR OF THE GROTTo--T
MAIDENS CHOICE--DEPARTURE OF THE YACHT.          Hg

Better dead
Is the bride
Falsely led
To confide

In the truth
Of truthlessman:
This her ruth;
This her ban."

W ro is this maiden ?" inquired the Hermit, as he passed his arm
gently around Edith, who nestled her head in'shispbosomedi arow
musical voice improvisatised as follows :  in his bosom, and in a low
"'Twas a night of magic beauty,
I was happy, blithe and gay,
Till he lured me from my duty,
And hurried me away.
I would not leave my brother--
My own dear happy bomne-.
Tillhe said I loved another
And gently whisper'd "come !"
He swore he did adore me
That I would be his.briie;
But two he had before me-
0, better I had died!
" Her countenance seems very familiar to me, and    et it cannot be
that dhave ever seen her until now," continued the Hermit, as Edith
for a reply to hie sont and he looked earnestly towards the smuggler
fo" Shepl tso hisquestion.
"eShe is one, sir, who has placed her bark of happiness in a base lib-
ertine's keeping, and you see the result: she is left thus, a helpless
wreck upon the great ocean of life.   But this does not answer your
nson proceeded to relate Edith's story, very nearly

'fY
i
%_ z1


THE EMiPRESS O    TritE ISLES; OR,
as we know it, pausing here and there in his narrative to invoke a
curse or heap a malediction upon the libertine Colonel   ehad
" Edith Letts," said the Hermit, amusingly, when the te beautiful -
concluded the tale of villainy and wrong which  m
creature a maniac-" Edith Letts ! It. was her mother's name,I.re-
member. Her parents I counted among my earliest and most esteemed
friends. She had a brother, if I mistake not----a fair, bright-eyed boy,
when I last saw him-some four years old, I think. Does he live?"
" He does," replied Johnson; "he lives in one of the gloomiest cells
of a Canadian prison, where he has been incarcerated at the instiga-
tion of the accursed knave who has wrought his sister's ruin."
"'Tis well," exclaimed the Hermit, in an exulting tone;  i only
needs a few more such acts of high-handed outrage and gross injustice,
sanctioned by a corrupt government, to light up the torch of Canadian
Revolution from Cape Diamond to Pentangoshene. But what present
disposition do you propose making of this poor child .,,
" I had intended w;hen we left the cottage, night before last, an-
swered the smuggler, " to have taken her to my home, at the French
Creek ; but when we got out of the bay, we found the wind was very
fresh at northeast, with every appearance of its remaining so for several -
days, and so after standing along to the eastward till yesterday about
this time, we discovered a British steamer and two cutters from Kings-
ton, down to windward of us a few miles, evidently waiting to intercept
us if we attempted to enter the St. Lawrence.  r"-         But
" And then we became convinced, too, that this poor girl-"
Edith bent upon the speaker such a keen, scrutinizing glance, that he
paused abruptly for a moment. " I feared," he resumed, leaving a
blank to be filled by the imagnation of his listening companion,. that
my rough home, with so muci noise and bustle and so many strangers
as there are constantly coming and going, would be but a very improper
asylum for this poor girl, under existing circumstances ; and remem-
bering that I had, a few years. since, a friend living near this place, at
whose house Edith could remain for the present, I consulted with my
friend there, who commands the yacht, and we decided to bear up for
Genesee River.
"And now, my friend, that I have thus answered all yourquestions,
perhaps you will gratify me by informing me who you are -"
"Yes," replied the Hermit, smiling sadly, " I am a man! a some-
what uncouth looking one, 'tis true-but still a man-one that can
sympathize with the afflicted, and feel for the wrongs of the oppressed.
I am the friend of civil and religious liberty-your friend, William
Johnson and the friend of this. poor, injured girl, if you will permit
me. With-this you must be satisfied. My name I have sworn never
to reveal to mortal man, till---but no matter. The time will per-
haps come when you will learn who I am, and what I have been.  ior
the present, suffice it that for fourteen years I have lived here in this
wild, lonely spot, brooding over the foul wrongs that made me what I
am, and living on for future vengeance. I'm known here as the Her-
mit of the Genesee. But come, it is getting 'late ; will it pleaseyou
and your friend there, to visit my poor home ? 'Tis but a rude habi-
tation ; but you shall be welcome."                    .

THE LADE BRAVO.                        37
Steve Marvell, who had remained there during the conversation
between the Hermit and Johnson, now leaped upon the wharf and
expressed himself ready to follow the stranger to his home, "provided,"
said the sailor, " that it is not in one of them old rookeries up there,'"
pointing, as he spoke, in the direction of the old buildings, the roofs of
which were just visible above the mass of weeds and briars by which
they were surrounded.
" Oh, no," replied the Hermit, " my dwelling is not -quite so com-
fortless as you would perhaps find those, although it is scarcely more
inviting in appearance," and without further ceremony the mysterious
stranger started off up-a little intricate zig-zag path, that wound along
among the rocks and tangled thickets, closely followed by Steve, who
sailor as he was, found this peculiar kind of climbing so new and ex-
tremely difficult, that he was gradually dropping astern of his tw
companions, one of whom had rendered the tortuous ascent compara-
tively easy by long practice, while the other was enabled to keep pace
with his leader by the sheer dint of his Herculean powers.  P
" Ielloa, shipmate !" sang out Steve, half-way up the steep bank,
puffing -and blowing, and floundering along like a "gallied fin-back."
'-elloa ! I say, shipmate, it rather strikes me that you'd better have
this hill rattled down, if you have to go abaft very often. Hang meif
I wouldn't rather shin up the main-truck of a line-o'-battle ship by the
royal back-stay, feet foremest."
'-Shall I come back and lend you a hand ?" asked the Hermit, stop.
ping in his way and looking back at the sailor.
" Not to-night," responded Steve, a little nettled at the idea of fallin
so far behind two men so much older than himself, and still further, to
think that the "old white-haired monk," as he called the Hert
should deem it necessary to offer him his assistance. "No!" he elled,
" heave ahead, and save the tide there, I'll be along in the coseof
the dog-watch."
It was nearly dark when the Hermit and Johnson gained the little
level platteau in front of the cave, where they halted for a few moments
until Steve caine up, when the stranger, requesting them to remain
where they were until he procured a light, advanced a few paces, and
displacing two upright planks that stood against the cliff, disclosea
narrow cleft in the solid wall of nature's masonry. He entered the
dark aperture, and for a few moments all was still and dark but
there was a glimmer of light within the cavern, and the Hermitre-
appeared with a torch formed of a blazing pine knot, and beckoned his
guests to enter. Passing through the narrow opening, which was so
low that they were obliged to stoop in entering, they found themselves
in a cave of very limited dimensions, as to width, but so lofty that the
vid rays from the burning knot failed to disclose the ceiling, and died
away amid the  gimmerian blackness of the unknown height. The
granite floor was as level, almost, as though it had been fashioned by
the hand and chisel of a stone-cutter ; but the bare-walls were com-
posed of rorgh, uncouth blocks, irregular in all their endlessvariert
of shapes and angles, piled one upon another, as if nature, in her wild-
est mood, had walled in that gloomy cavern with her most unsightly
material, thereby forming the most striking contrast in the floor and


88            THE EMIP$LESS OF THE ISLES ; OR,
walls, between order and chaos. The floor was nature's "art," the
walls nature herself.
The air of the cave was pure--no appearance of dampness was visible
anywhere; but there was not a single article of furniture, or any of
the hundred things which it might be supposed even a hermit could
not well dispense with, to be seen. All was bare, ragged and deso-
late, as though man had never before that evening passed the rocky
threshold.
The smuggler and Steve looked about them, and at each other, in
erfect amazement, as the Hermit -paused in the centre of the cave, and
held the torch above his head as if to illuminate every nook and angle
more effectually, and give his guests an opportunity to note its dreary,
comfortless appearance.
They had both read and heard of hermits living in seclusion from
all the world, in some lone cave, but they had never dreamed that
any human -being could become so indifferent to the common necessi-
ties of humanity, as to take up his abode, and dwell for fourteen years
in a place so utterly destitute of everything that could conduce to
comfort..
The Hermit marked their looks of astonishment, and with a peculiar
smile, as if he had read their thoughts, he observed-
"This is only the vestibule of my residence, my friends. I should
scarcely have ventured to invite you hither, had I not a less gloomy
chamber than this for your reception. Come, let us go in;" and advanc-
ing to a sharp angle of rock, ti the right of the first entrance, he drew
aside a screen composed of a material similar to that which formed his
robe, and so near the color of the rock itself, that it had escaped the
notice of his visitors, disclosing, as he did so, another aperture even
smaller than the one through which they had just passed.
Following close in the footsteps of their mysterious guide, the little
party traversed a narrow, winding passage for perhaps a hundred feet,
when they suddenly emerged into another o amber more than five
times as large as the first, but nothing near so lofty ; and if the
smuggler and Steve Marvell were astonished at the barren and dreary
appearance of the first apartment, they were perfectly bewildered at
the air of comfort, almost sumptuousness, exhibited in this. Chairs,
sofas, bureaus, tables, and other articles of furniture, were tastefully
arranged about the apartment ; on the walls were hung several paist-
ings of rare value ; on one side stood an open bookcase, the ample
shelves of which were crowded with volumes, apparently in every
style and variety of binding, and on the other was suspended a huge
mirror in a rich gilded frame, so .tall that it might have reached
from floor to ceiling of any modern parlor. Even the flinty floor was
covered with a beautiful carpet, spread, as it would seem, upon a thick
layer of leaves, for it was as elastic to the tread as the long velvet
moss of some fairy dell. Everything within that subterranean cham-
ber was arranged with the nicest care, and nothing that could minister
to the physical or mental wants of man, seemed lacking. v
Here the Hermit welcomed his guests to his home, and then, after
showing them several other smaller chambers, one of which was fitted
up for a sleeping apartment, ho returned with them to the "library,"

Att

THE LAKE BRAVO.-o
as he called the great chamber, where, after all were seated, he thus
addressed them---
" You are doubtless much surprised to see so much of comfort or
rather the elements of comfort, in this lone and solitary retreat, m
friends. You are the first and only human beings who have ever
stepped within the precincts of these rocky walls, in the whole long time
that I have been a resident of the cave ; and all who know me, 'adge of
my in-door comforts by my out-door appearance. That these conehi-
sions are unjust, this air of comfort with which you see I have invested
my inner home, will bear witness. I am a hermit, it is true, but no
anehoret ; and this garb which I have assumed, is'more for myown
convenience than an exhibition of any religious or fanatical sentiment.
These few articles of furniture are but a small remnant of a once
princely establishment, of which I was the happy and envied pos-
sessor. They were brought here during the first year of my sojourn
in the cave, and removed from the vessel which brought them, during
the mght; so that when the craft in which they came departed no one
but myself was aware that my dark, silent home here, contained a
sngle comfort othar than those provided by the hand of nature.
. My fourteen years experience his taught me that solitude is not
incompatible with comfort."
Edith has listened very attentively while the Hermit was  eakin
and when he ceased, she left her seat, and going over to him, she threw
her arms about his neck, and looking down into his eyes as she ben
over his shoulder, she addressed him in a manner so rational that at
first the smuggler, Steve, and even the Hermit himself hoed  ad
almost believed, that reason had again asserted her empire, and th
maiden. was freed from the curse of madness---a              t
"Will you not let -me live with you here in your quiet, beatiful
home ? she asked of the Hermit. "And you will permit ne tcall
you father, too, won't you ?  I have no parents, no home now and
noble, kind brother, who would have died for me, they have taken him
and shut him up in a cold, gloomy prison. 0, you will let me be y
daughter, and I will love you so much I I will never be wicked ag r
and run away, as I did from brother."agan,
"What answer shaHl I make her 7" inquired the Hermit as the gir
came sent. "I would say yes--shall ave your assent?" andhis
eyeshglanced first at the smuggler and then at Steve, as though he
sought his answer from some tell-tale expression of their features,
rather than from their lips.         eres,
In an instant the brave old smuggler and the warm-hearted sail
were wringing his hands, and pouring forth their thanks for thus kindly
offering to the poor girl an asylum, which of all others seemed bes
calculated to finally restore her to reason.
So it was all settled, and at an early hour on the following mor
they all set to work removing the furniture which had been taken g,
e cottage, to the Cave. This task occupied them two whole daysand
on the morning of the third, Johnson and Steve sailed for Frend
Creek,1n the yacht, promising to return as soon as Benjamin Le c
freed from prison.                                    netts was


TH3E PRESS Or THE ISBLES O&amp;R,

CHAPTER IX.
TB TRiAL--COLONIAL JUSTiCE.--THE DEoLARATION-POPULAR EXcETE-
MENT--THE sSNTENCE-THE LAKE BRAVO.
Alli, des pois que as pedras abrandarem.
Com lagrimas de dor, de magoa pura,
Abracados, as almas Soltaro
Da formosa e miserrima prison.
LrSFcAD OrT UASOES.
Two months--two long anxious months, to some of our characters--.
have gone by since the events which are recorded in the foregoing
chapter occurred. Two months since the morning that the beautiful
yacht sailed from Genesee River, and in all that time, not one word
has Edith .or the mysterious white-haired Hermit heard from their
absent friends. It has been a weary two months to them.
Two months have the two prisoners, Stanly Morris and Benjamin
Letts, languished there in their cold, damp cells, chained like wild
beasts to the granite floor ; the one. driven almost to frenzy by the
knowledge of his sister's wrongs ; and the other equally frantic with
the torture of his galling fetters, and the thought that the glorious
creature whom he had rescued from a ruffian's grasp. and whom he had
so soon learned to worship, even as the Aztec does his sun-deity, was
aill exposed to the detested wiles of that base wretch, and the baser
libertine who urged him on. With them--shut out as they were from
the society of those they loved, from the world and God's own glcr:ous
sunlight-days lengthened into months, and months into years.. 0, it
was a sad, tedious time to them, that two months !
For twice thirty days, and as many nights, have the two sworn
friends-the noble old smuggler and the true-hearted sailor, Steve
Marvell--planned and, schemed, and watched, almost incessantly, for
some favoring opportunity to make one bold effort for the liberty of
their imprisoned friends. But the authorities are too vigilant, the
strong prison is too strictly guarded, and- all their schemes thus far
have proved abortive. It has been a restless, anxious two mouths to
them.
For eight whole weeks have that brace of scoundrels-the libertine
Colonel, and his fiendish accomplice, Oliver Shephard-gone on plot-
ting and conspiring in their dark career of villany and crime, exulting
in their success, lamenting their failures, and marking new victims for
their future prey. It has been a busy, exciting two months to them.
'T'is early morning, on one of the first days of August, 1837.
Everywhere, as you pass along through the streets of Kingston, you
will see groups of people gathered here and there upon the sidewalks,
in the market-place, along the wharves and upon the steps of the inns
and hotels, all of whom seem to. be engaged in earnest conversation;
Many of them, you will observe, cast furtive' glances occasionally at

THE LAKE BRAVO.-41
those flaming government placards, posted up everywhere throughout
the whole city, thick as theatre bills in the streets of New York.
You wonder what it is that can have drawn these little crowds
together at this early hour, till you approach one of the groups. and
listen for a few moments, when the mystery becomes apparent. You
learn that to-day, the first trial under the new government order is to
take place. It is the day appointed for the trial of Benjamin Letts,
accused of high treason.                -
The time wears on. and at the hour of nine, you see crowds of peo-
ple flocking towards the court-house, where the court of Queen's Bench-
will soon be jn session.
By a lucky chance you are mistaken for some government official
and the dense throng in the square fall back on either hand, and allow
you to pass. You enter with a dozen black-coated men, bearing long
black wands, tipped with white ; one of them again taking you for a
reporter, conducts you to a seat near the bar, where you have a most
excellent chance to see and hear.
Those three " things" there in that elevated seat, huge, unshapely
black bags, with monstrous fleeces of wool. or something very like it on
their heads, are the august judges of the Queen's Bench.
You see that long oval table there, within the railed inclosure ?  It
is covered with green cloth, and strewed with legal papers and many
a calf-bound volume, and surrounded by some thirty members of the
Midland District Bar.
The jurors are all there in their seats, within that raised box there
to the left of the judge's bench ; but you look in vain for the prisoner,
Benjamin Letts. You are anxious, as are a thousand others, to look
upon the first victim of foul conspiracy and colonial tyranny.
There is a moment of profound silence, suddenly broken by a-low
murmur, that thrills into sharp hissing whispers along the avenues of
the lower hall, and swells into articulate words along and above the
sea of heads in the vast circular gallery.
A small door near the judge's seat opens, and, guarded between two
bailiffs, the prisoner is brought in--a fair-haired, blue-eyed young
man, whose cheeks are blanched with grief, and the noisome atmos-
phere of a damp cell. But there is a firm elasticity in his free, bold
step, a fire in his clear, blue eyes, that no fetters can subdue, no Cold
dungeon can quench.
He is placed in the dock, and silence is again proclamed. The jury-,
done by one, are sworn to "well and truly try the case between our
sovereign lady, the Queen, by the grace of God, &amp;e, and the prisoner
at the bar." At a signal from the judge, the clerk reads the indict.
inent, and then, after a momentary pause, comes the question of "guilty
or not guilty ?" to which the prisoner replies, in a clear, manly voice
-4 NOT GUILTY !" and the mockery of.justice is begun.
One after another, twenty suborned witnesses are brought to the
stand, each one of whom would swear away the life of an innocent man
for ten shillings sterling, and came there well tutored to swear, that
Benjamin Letts is a traitor to his country.
Papers and letters, bearing his name, and of treasonable import. each
one of which has been carefully written and signed by the arch villain,


42            THE EMPRESS OF THE ISLES' OR,
-Oliver Shephard, are produced in court, and read to the jury, who
already begin to frown, and several of them look the verdict which is
to follow.
The evidence on the part of the Crown is all given in, and the
prisoner is called upon for his defence.
All is hushed as death, as he rises to his feet; and after gazing for a
moments in silence around the crowded court, he turns to the judge,
and very calmly declares that he has no defence to make.
After an able and most eloquent argument, by the attorney for the
Crown, the judge delivered his charge to the jury, who, without retir-
ing from their seats, rendered a verdict of 'guilty," and the prisoner is
asked if he has anything to say why sentence should not be pronounced
against him.
Again he stands up in the dock, and after calling upon God to
witness his innocence-of even a treasonable thought-he turned his
deep blue eyes, now flashing with intense feeling, full upon the presid-
ing judge, and assuming an attitude, as full of natures dignity, as
sublime as that of Coriolanus, when he hurled his bitter denunciations
upon the Roman Senate, he addressed the court in tones of impassion-
ed eloqueince:
" You ask me what I have got to say,*why sentence should not be
pronounced against me, and I answer--nothing ! Still I have a few
thoughts of which I would disburden my indignant heart before I leave
this court. What my sentence will be, or how much what I am about
to say may incline you to add to its severity, I know not, nor do I care
-confident as I am, that if there were a doom in the human code
worse than death, that doom would be mine. -
" I have said that I am innocent. I repeat it. But this avails me
nothing. - By forged papers and perjured witnesses, I have been con-
demned ; by a jury of my countrymen, I have been pronounced guilty,
and whatever I might say, my doom, so far as human agency can con-
trol it, is sealed.
" I ask no mercy at your hands, nor pity from a few, perhaps, who
know me-and know my wrongs. Why should I, when for the first
there is no hope, and the latter would be unavailing ?
"1I have been arrested at the instigation of the vilest, blackest hearted
wretch that ever wore the livery of humanity. For two whole months
I have been chained there in one of the most dreary cells of your for-
tress dungeon. My sister, a pure, gentle girl, and the only being I
ever loved, has been torn from her happy home by the same accursed.
villain who has planned, and thus far wrought my own ruin. My name,
hitherto untainted by dishonor, has been rendered infamous ; the same
tribunal that passes upon me my own doom, will also declare my prop-
erty confiscated, and in the same hour I become a beggar-felon--cone
vict I And the catiff villain who has made me thus, revels in wealth
that was but lately mine.
" And now, listen to my oath, which, if God spares my life, shall be
most faithfully kept :-You may consign me to your deepest, strongest
dungeons-load me down with iron till no space remains on my limbs
to place a fetter-chain mre to the solid walls, or send me to your far-
off penal colonies, if ye will-but ye cannot, shall not, keep me. Though

THE LAKE BRAVO.                        48
ye buried me in a subterranean prison deeper than, the Cornish mines,
or place me upon a lone rock, separated from the Canadas by the width
of ten Atlantics, yet I will escape and wreak a terrible vengeance on
those who have made me what I am.
" Here I fling from me, forever, the hated name of ' British subject,'
and by' Him who rules in heaven, I swear, that henceforth, while I
live, every energy of my heart shall be devoted to hate and vengeance
on all and everything that bears the British name !
"If your injustice has changed the quiet,,.unoffenaing citizen into a
reckless, blood-thirsty bravo, God, if man does not, will place the credit
where 'tis due.
And now, your sentence : I am ready !"
The young man folds his arms, and stands there proudly in the
dock, awaiting his doom. The stern judge rises and lifts his right
hand, but ere a sound comes forth from his parted lips, a hum of many
voices, at first low and indistinct, but gradually swelling into audible
whispers, mingled with words of admiration, exclamations of pity, and
smothered curses, goes up from aisle and gallery, until every nook and
corner of the vast edifice is vocal with the indignant outbursts of popu-
lar excitement.
At length the tumult is hushed, and all listen with the most intense
feeling, as the sentence falls word by word, slowly uttered, as, if to
make it more emphatic, from the lips of the Judge-
Transportation for Life!'
It would have been death, but that stern old man dared not speak
it. He saw the-slumbering fire in the eyes of more than five hundred
determined men, and he knew that such a sentence would be the signal
for a demonstration that neither the government nor himself were pre-
pared for.
But transportation is not murder, and it did not seem like death ;
wherefore, the crowd only hissed the court, and made threatening ges-
tures at the Colonel, Oliver Shephard, and several of the witnesses;
and several of them spoke kindly to the victim, as he was led out of
the court to be conducted back to prison.
When the result of the trial became known to the multitudes who
had assembled in the court-house square and in the market-place,
there was everywhere manifested signs of disappointment. Of the
thousands who had thus collected together, there was probably not one
in every five hundred but had hoped that the sentence would have
been death ; for then they would have had just such a pretext as they
earnestly longed for, to wrest the victim from the grasp of his persecu-
tors, and show their contempt of the odious law which had so recently
been promulgated.
As it was, they quietly dispersed to their several homes, but with
muttered threats and ominous glances at the government placards, as
they passed along the streets, which told very plainly, that a few more
such acts of legal outrage would rouse the latent fires of discontent into
the fierce blaze of revolution.
Benjamin Letts was conducted, under a strong guard, from the court
back to his gloomy cell, where he was heavily ironed and chained to

4


44            THE EMPRE-SS OF' THIN'ISLES; OR,
the wall, and thus situated, with two soldiers stationed in the corridor
4b guard his door, he was left to his reflections.
It was ten o'clock, or very near that hour, on the evening after the
trial had taken place, and a gay festive party were assembled in the
gorgeously appointed drawing-rooms of a stately mansion, which stood
almost entirely alone on the out-skirts of the city, near the head of
King street, the principal thoroughfare of the city of Kingston.
The mansion is that of the Honorable Edward Vavasour, first Judge
~ of the Court of Queen's Bench-he who presided but a few hours before
at the trial of Letts.
The party have assembled there to celebrate his daughter's birth-
day.-
A set of cotillion is just formed, and the dancers are only waiting
for the music to strike up, when all At once a scene of the wildest con-
fusion and dismay occurs. , Timid females scream with affright and
cling to their partners for protection, or fall fainting to the floor.
Brave 'nen--soldiers who have braved death even " at the cannon's
mouth"--stand there in mute terror, and gaze upon an unknown mask,
who stands with.folded arms two paces within the closed door. - No
one knows him, or how he came there. He wears a light fustian hunt-
ing coat, a common tarpaulin hat, and About his waist is a broad,
leather belt, within which he wears'a long, serviceable-looking dagger,
and a brace of heavy dragoon's pistols.
Suddenly the strange being tears the mask from his face, and the
next instant a dozen voices exclaim, with increased wonder-
"Benjamin Letts!"
" Ay--Ben -Letts-TDE BRAVo-Ha ! ha ! ha ! Judge, I told you
that you could not keep me in your prisons. Do you believe me
now ?"
"Seize the desperado !" shouted the Judge, and a dozen sprang for-
ward to execute the mandate, but the Bravo was gone.

THE LAKE BRAVO.               45

CHAPTER        X.'
ExCITEMENT--THE BRAVOS FIRST ACT OF VENGEANCE---THE SOUTHERNER
AND HIS SLAVE-THE- NEGRO AND THE LAWYER--ANOTHER -SCAPE--
SECOND APPEARANCE OF THE YACHT.
"Escaped ! so let him: be is hedged too fast
Within the circuit of our English pale,
To steal out of our ports, or leap the walls
Which_ guard the laud."
PERKIN WABBECK.
You have a Trojan prisoner, called Antenor,
Yesterday took. Troy holds him very dear."
TROLIUS AND CRESSIDA.
JUDGE YAVASOVa was the first to recover from the surprise--almost,
stupor-into which the sudden appearance and mysterious exit of young
Letts had thrown all that gay, happy party, and followed by more than.
a dozen of .his military friends, he sallied forth into the hall, and then
into the street ; but after a half hour's search about the grounds and
questioning the servants, not one of whom.had seen or heard anything
of the uninvited guest, they returned to the mansion, where a new sur-
prise awaited them; for, as the judge .himself mounted the steps, and
was about to re-enter the hall, his eye fell upon a white objecteeured
to the outer side of the door, near the top, and instantly calling for a
light, he, together with his friends, soon made out the white object to"
be a piece of paste-board, nearly a foot square, secured to the door by
four immense government wafers, bearing the colonial arms, and in the
centre of the card were the words--
" BEN. LETTS, T[E BRAVO."
" Audacious villain I" exclaimed Judge Vavasour, quivering with rage
and excitement.
" Murderous miscreant !" muttered, between his hard-set teeth, a
dandy young captain of the 79th Royal Highlanders.
" Fly to the barracks and arouse the whole garrison this- instant !"
shouted a gray-whiskered colonel of artillery, who was himself an inti-
mate friend of Col. Moody.
" You, Captains Edmiston, Bancroft, and Carlisle, and Lieut. Gar-
wood, hurry to the prison, and learn by what means the convict-traitor
has escaped. I will at once to the quarters of Col. Moody, and ere an
hour has passed, every outlet from the city shall be guarded, and five
thousand men shall be-on the. trail. He cannot escape; and orders.
shall be given to all to shoot the desperado down like a dog wherever
he shall be found."
. In five minutes the mansion of Judge Vavasour was deserted by its
military guests, and in less than an hour the streets of Kingston pre-
sented a scene of bustle and wild confusion, quite equal to that which
had taken place two months previously, when it became known that
the notorious smuggler-and pirate was in their midst.

M

a-


46-           THE EMPRESS OF ,THE ISLES; OR,
The military deputation which had bocok sent to investigate the
prison, found on their arrival, the two soldiers on guard, the door of
the cell locked and secured ; and they were informed by the sentinels
that all had been quiet within the cell during the time that they had
been on guard.
When the turnkey was aroused, and the door at length flung open,
the officers were struck with astonishment, as they entered the narrow-
cell and saw the massive fetters, so lately worn by the prisoner, piled
up. in the centre of the little apartment, and surmounted by a card
similar to the one they had just seen on the door of the Vavasour man-
sion, only on this was written---
" Presented to the Government, by BEN. LnETTs, THE BRAVO."
All around the'cell were scattered narrow strips of flannel cloth,
which still gave forth the odor of nitric acid, empty vials, and stout iron
bars, which had been removed from the grated window-and, upon a
closer examination, several tiny saws, and other implements used by
burglars and adepts in iron cutting ; all of which was conclusive ev1-
dunce not only of the means which the prisoner had made use of to
escape, but that those means had been supplied from without, and
long before the trial, as it was impossible that he could have cut
through those strong bars, and the rivets which secured his fetters, in
one evening.
As the officers examiined the irons which had so recently graced the
prisoner's limbs,-there was one circumstance which very much puzzled
and astonished them, as it doubtless will the, reader, who, if he will
bear the incident in mind, will find a solution of the mystery in one of
the last chapters of this veritable history. The circumstance was this-
the "hand-cuffs" which had secured his wrist, were found removed entire,
without the rivets being out.
When the artillery colonel reached the quarters of his friend, Col.
Moody, the first object that met his gaze was another of those paste-
board placards affixed to the door by a bayonet, which was driven
through the centre, deep into the panel, as though the very energy
which drove the weapon home, spoke the vengeance of the will and
arm that wielded it.
By the light of a street lamp, which stood almost in front of the-
door, the officer read-
"1Deth to the Libertine !--BEN. LETTs."
Col. Moody was aroused from a very interesting conference with his
colleague in villany, upon the subject of some legal papers relative to
his newly-acquired property-i. e., the beautiful cottage and grounds
so lately owned by young Letts, and which he had received from the
government as his share of the spoils. He was aroused, I say, by the
abrupt entrance of his artillery friend ; and when he was made ac-
quainted with the fact that his victim had escaped, his rage was
unbounded. But his fiendish rage was fully equalled by his guilty
fears, when the menacing placard was pointed out to him, as in com-
pany with his fellow officer he left the quarters to muster his command,
and hurry them off in search of the escaped convict.
All throughout the night the hue and cry was kept up, but no further
traces of the self-liberated prisoner were discovered, when, just as the

THE LAKE BRAVO.
day began to dawn, a detachment of-dragoons, who had been dispatched
to the cottage on the bayashore, returned to Kingston with theintelli
gene that the beautiful villa and every building connected with it, had
been burned during the night, and that on their arrival they had found
another of the Bravo's cards fastened to the gate of the lawn.
Ten days passed, and the most diligent search continued for the
escaped, when the authorities and everybody else in Kingston were
startled one morning by the intelligence from Toronto, that a govern-
nent warehouse in that city, containing a large amount of valuable
property had just been burned, and all around the neighborhood, those
mysterious cards bearing the words BEN LETTS, THE BRAVO, had been
posted up.
Some three weeks after this last event occurred, a very genteel
-appearing old gentleman,-dressed in the very extreme of the beau monde,
and wearing a profusion of rich jewelry, landed one morning from an
American steamer which had just entered the harbor of Kingston, from
Oswego, on the American side.
The stranger in his appearance was just such a person as Sir Walter
Scott presents to our view in his description of the "lion-hearted mon-
arch of England," Richard, the first Plantagenet. He wore no whiskers
or moustache, which might have given cause for the supposition, but
then his dark, bronzed -skin, jet black hair, and dark, flashing eyes,
added to the circumstance of his being accompanied by a--negro slave,
almost as richly dressed as his master, led several of the travelled
Canadians who had assembled on the wharf, to assert very positively
that he was either a rich Cuban Spaniard, or perhaps a titled Don from
old Spain; but when they saw the negro superintend the removal from
the steamer of two magnificent horses, whose very step proclaimed
their pure blood and careful training, they remembered that the Mid-
land District races were to commence in a few days, and then they set
the stranger down, past all question, as a Southern sporting gentleman,
who had brought those superb animals to match them against the
"Buglers," " Flatas," and " Lady Hartleys,"-of Canada.
In this last surmise they were correct ; for the stranger repaired to
the most fashionable hotel in the city, and after seeing his horses well
cared for, he entered his name and those of his retinue, horses and all,
thus-
" Gen. - Percival Winchester, Arkansas.
" Quickstep-bl'k g'ng-,-out of Queen Mab.
" Ruttven-b'y st'en-out of Diana--.s'd by Harrold.
" Marcus-bl'k boy-serv't---age 30-slave."
It told its own story plainly enough, that entry did: it spoke vol-
umes of itself. First himself, then his horses, and last of all his negro
slave.
"Monstrous !" exclaimed a genteelly dressed man, glancing over the
register, as the stranger turned his back. " Monstrous !" he reiterated,
in a louder tone, as the southerner walked to one of the windows, and
stood gazing out into the street.
" Characteristic of those chivalrous southerners, who claim to be the
children of liberty, and the champions of human rights. The very
term 'American Liberty' is a gross libel upon the name of -humanity.


48            THE EMPRESS :09 TE' T  ISLES; OR,
here is -a just spe-imen of those United States Liberty braggarts; who
traffic in human fleh, and wh6 degrade their fellow man below The
lever of the brute creation, because forsooth the-acQident of nature has
given him a skin of a different color from the tyrant w'ho calls him
slave."
Thus spoke the genteelly dressed man, with his finger upon the
southerner's entry in the register, and half soliloquizing half apostro-
phizing in a low tone to-a few persons who stood near him.
You would set this man down as a true philanthropist, and a genuine
friend of humanity ; but the next moment you see how egregiously you
have been mistaken in him, for he turns his face towards us,and you
recognize the smooth, hypocritical features of the villian lawyer-spy-
Oliver Shephard.
As he turns from the desk, his eyes encounter the form of the negro,
who is standing in a distant corner of the large apartment, and going
over to him, he makes a motion as if to shake hands with the slave, who
steps back and lifts his hat respectfully as the subtle lawyer thus ad-
dresses him-
" Good morning, my friend. You have come to Kingston, I presume,
to attend the races ?"°
"No, bah, dat I dusn't, Massa ober dar-cum heah to 'tend dem
race--dis child cam to 'tend..Massa and bosses." -   .      :
" You are a slave, I pissume ?"
" Yes sah, dat I is. Mighty good one too, I reckon ; spec Massa
won't take twenty hundred dollars for dis nigger."-
"What is your name?"
" Marcus, sah; -haiu't got no moah name. Massa say one name
plenty for nigger. Sometime when go trabbel, hab Massa's name-
Iarcus Winchester."-.                                       '
" But, Marcus, don't you know that it is degrading to be a slave ?"
"Dere's whar you're 'staken, 'tirely, Massa. Dis nigger neber 'grade
nothin ; no, sah.! When cum up de ribber 'long wid Massa dis time,
seed plenty white men 'gradin on de lebbee, dar in Simsunnatti-yah !
yah 1 wh-o-o-ah ! dat what I call 'gradin, sah ; mor'n hundred .of 'em ;
all got big chain -on; all same like ox. Tell you, sab, nigger doan't do
dat down Sout dar."
" You don't quite understand me, Marcus. I mean that so long as
you are a slave, you are crushed down to the level of the brutes, de-
prived of all the inalienable rights which God has given to man, with a
design that they should be free and equal everywhere."
" I b'leve you is right dar, Massa. Now, I spect dat de general lub
dem losses better'n he does dis child-; den oh course, I is below-'em.
But den you see, sah, dat Massa am a sportin' gent'luni, and ob course,
he hab double right to lab dem bosses, an' de dogs, and gun' and
suffurth, better'n he dus Marcus, or ole Misse ; but den sah, he lubs die
nigger well nuff, and I is perfectly 'tented." -
"Yes; but don't you know you are not allowed to vote, nor-"
" What de debble bote good for ?  Massa bote ebery timedis ten-
twenty year ; and he say he lose he bote ebry year. What bote good
for? 'spose you d an gone lose him ebry time ?"n
" True1 the voting part is not of so much consequence ; but if you

49

ar thi ed         ; 4t h  you hage A b a isfaetion ofkuowing thatyo&amp;i are
t -leastafreeman.tpiow, here- in Carads; Mareus we're- all free-.and
gecall the egro Asjust:as good as the white manA  1a a
'I spoto, sih,tmaome: el 'em great'deal: better."
SWell, .we will neh argue e that; but let me: advise yoir to:leave
-your caster, and remain* here -a free man. He has no control over
p4   and tie law will protectryou against him  or; another white
man-";-. ea
" 1What dat you say,sah Z de law 'lect me gainst any white mani1"
".Most certainly, -I -a lawye, and- ':
S ]";en look-heah, s? .I's gwine to tellyo:somefin, you damiehite
Rigger- yo--brasted; obolition rean p. If. you ebber say four: more
ordqstordis child 'bout gwine off and run. way from de General--I'l
-I'll-I's jest gwine to, do it, now. Look out, sahi1 , Imash you
darn-~--"                                              - -
What the event would have been, had- not the General,:whose atten-
tio .head been for some time directed towards his slave, immediately
interfered, is altogether-a matter:of (doubt, for Marcus had.fiung=aside
hbi hat, and with bead. depr ssed to .serve as a battering-ram,: he was
probably about to exe ute:hisunfinished threat, when his master caught
him by the neck, and.-afteri shaking him sorhewhat 'roughly, demanded
of him tke meaning of his couddet.
"Why, sah, Massa Generalrdat dami---why4--Gor: Aighty, ihassa I
whar de dam hobolition been gone P- and the astonished negroarolled
his eyes about in every direction, in search of the lawyer, who had ud'
denty taken himelf eff:hile; Mareuawas undergoing the shaking pro-
cess-juflieted by his-master.,  ,                             :y
l3ai~lig to :discover.the-object of his vengeance,Marcus  merely
replied that, " de 'fernal trash wanted= him to raw away. front his
mater,"-and then pickibgt up his hat, which he had ang on the floor
he droveit down with an air of stubborn dignity almost over his eyes,
and Walked a wayF tW window; where he conmmereed whistlingin a
very low ,one, "Ole Gumbo-Chaff,";as if he wanted to whistle off the
recollection of his recent altercation with. the lawyer.  _.
General -Winchester-attended the raceswheun;they-came onbut-as
t bepurse of t oiedidland= Jockey:Club was only three hundred pounds,
said thevery ,appearance;of his} two  splendid horses at once ikiledall-
Zlzg    ropensities against them, she- refused to enter saying{thaw
neither should run for:lessFthansathousand..      r     gv
On:the secondday of, the -aces,?however! be -fell in with= Lord
bal a sportingnobleman, pbssessed of more: money _than wit;
wh.ofe ed hinvsome three.hund ed'pounds inore.thaauhe had&amp;a-f
for hischorses, 'and full five hundredmorethan theywere worthewhihi
offer he accepted ,and returned -40 his =hotel, where he -intended to
reino aevei-al days, before returning to his home iqArka sae:( c'--
P .rho somthetner expressed a:great .desireAto see everything inand
ibout  iagston worthy=f a strangk'snotieg and fingdiv  no iffeaulty
in obtaining permission-of.the authorities, In thec ourseof two iWeeksi
he had visited all the public works, churches, prisons&amp;, at; least-ai
d  zk  _tunes.  .  .    7  .  d   ¢x i  :*  -,i"  +_'  4z 3  a  (
-Thedfrtresswhere -theyew staterisonersw ereeo  nodrseemed to
4     -

r   K 1,  _ THE:  V  KE BRAVO.       ,

I


5THE EMwPRESS o P-; ia' 't LEa; OR,

be' the General's favorite rebrti abd h#usedate ped wholehodrsa a
time in conversation with thepresflers; to whom he vias readity'ad-
mitted at all hodr.,Among'{these , prisoners there was one' who
appeared to be no favorite -'it h  en.' Winchesteras 'the soldier who
invariably accompanied himobhserved, that instead of stopping' and
convei-sing with this one, as he did 'with'the ethers esometpfed foi
several. minutes- at , tiine, the Generalwoold only ess e. few hasty
words, and once or twice he passed by without speaking at all.
Marcus, however, who always attended his mster, seemed to have
formed an opinion of this particular findividu exactly 'the reveks'e of
the Genefal'a; ideed! the;}Wisoner and the negro slave .appeared" to
have taken a mutualiking-to each=other-at once ;fand ever since the
first day,.eMarcus would always-remain in conversation with his friend,
while his-master went-the roundsof'the prison.-
'his prisoner was Lieut. Stanly Morris.
One day after these prison visits had continued se long, and become
so regular, that everybody about the hotel had become 'accustomed t6
seeing. the GeneraLstart off accompanied-by his servant and a soldier
and return in the, same. manner, often after dark. A' beautiful little
schooner; painted as bhte all over as the: heavens; without a single
streak of spek. of any-other colors about- her, arrived at the -whartf
known as the "Mrs. McLeod,"'next below the foot of King street.
An l that same evening, at the! hour of sunset, there was a' strange
scene enacted in the corridor of the prison in which Stanly Morris was
The other prisoners had.all been lookedih their cells for the' ight,
and the General, who had remained longer' than usual in the prison,
was conversing with' the soldier, wbile Marcusdand Stanlysseeune tobe
discussing some aneomnonlj interesting subject}/and 'the' turnkey stood
a littloepart,'patiently waiting for the. oung Lieutenant to. conclude
his discour'e.      '
. Suddenly, as if by a preconcerted' signal, the General grasped the
soldier. by the. throat, almost 'crashing him in' his giant graip, at the
same instant that .the:-athletic negra sprang upon: the unsuspecting
turakeywhom' he'cught up in his arms as if he had been/lan infant.
: Before 'you 'cbuld count ten; tho' door; of, the cellUhad= been swung
open bj Stanly,:and the' two:a tonished 'daptiveauborne i, wherd the
euaeral':produced sundry pieces ofcord: ftoniris pockets,; with which
they proceeded to bind the 'wrists.*nd::au1les: f'te new:prisoners-
*bicb being donh, Stanily:was-soon .relieved{ of Jhis fetters by means of
some peculiar instrumentS, provided expressljrfor that purpose: Weedi
tJe last manacle was:removed;the-General released the soldier from
his bonds, and ordered{ hint to-strip andtichange clothes with sthe Lieu*
tenants -The .Order :was-:complied withpand as soon as Stanly was
completely hquiped inthe oier uuiorm,;the General'bade his pi-
dunersgood-gh , locked stheiadauto the :4cll an. 'took *his -departt-e,
n ied by; Mardua and.the liberated Lieutenaunt whoassumed
4Jsoldier'inusket, and of course was, represents 'him on thedwear
backed the. hot{eL .- j -    i        '
It was-a bold and somewhat dangerous experiment, but itisueoeeded
l wa almost dark.when they left the piise  :adm  Ianlycoanter

feited the soldier most admirably in passing along the streets, so that
they escaped observation till they arrived' at the hotel, where it was so
x   very common to see a soldier passing out and.in at all hours. on some
errand for the various officers, that, it is probable the sailor-soldier might
have passed fifty times in 9pen daylight, ands not been detected ; but
the General determine  to act with the utmost caution: and so upon
entering te hQtel,.he ,_ok Stanly immediately up o his prirate'roomy
andin less than ten minutes his epidier's dress was exchanged for a
'post fashionable suit that had been procured several days previously,
expressly for the occasion,
The General had already settled his:bill,-and his baggage had been
sent away aboard of an American steamer on the day previous, and as
soon as Stanly was ready, they passed out into the street, accompanied
by Marcus; and before Aive minutes more had elapsed,,they all three
stood upon the deck of the magnificent little blue clipper, which was
immediately -got ander,'weigh---and, with' a fine, fresh bremio td tike
northward, shewent-off, wing  nd wing, like'a beautiful sea-bird, and
at a speed that would soon put all fear-ofrecapture; by anything in' the
harbor of Kingston, entirely out"ofthe question.
,jt is a clear, star-light evening, and tie ammanderof the*little craft'
has renamed :on deck for more than two hours; brt nowthat she is
beyond pursuit, be descends to the, cabin; where his 'passengers are
sBated, in conversation; and, s the fallglare of the lamp falls :epoun
hisaface, you recognizeabimain a moment as Benjamia Le.u.  -
AndGeneral-Winchester :--ti needsbut to remove that coating  of
thick.paint, so, very Spanishin eplot ;and: which conceals 'a huge scar
on his left cheekund invest his face with great black whiskers, and you'
would egl Gen. Winchester BiZ Johnson, in a moment.
" How's the weather, Ciapt. Ben ?"
Iwas about to'tear away the negro's disguise, but that question ha
savettmethe trouble. You know it is &amp;ete Ml'Earveil that asks it..
The sohoonertoo, if' she wasn't so blue -bat'I'l tell yon. You 'na
call he,;the  hditjhb,.  t s:'".Yy
w5 .f  . ,a a ' K c. '  jI''#                  '    .    f 5  C
{  }. "     :  ,  ; .  i  !i i  ' h  r  2 *  "f  " .  .} l I '.a 3r _ V

z'4

t .
}y  T  R
3 k          i J
.X         (+
n      a;          "    .   t                a
a
_ R
+"                  n
t                       i   4
e V -    i   1
'       '4            1    ._    "'        f x
!+               2 i

i                                          '.

4

I

80

,.                               _     h

-
' ,
t, ,


52            THE EMPRESS OF THE ISLES ; OR,
CHAPTER XI.r
TNE COUNCIL AlND DECISION- A SHORT CRUISE--THE "I.LAD.i
AGAIN-A GLANCE AT THE TIMES.
Quantas cabecas tantas curapucas.
Several men, several minds.

Hereditary bondsmen ! know ye not
Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow?"
ByRON's ALBANIA;t

HAVING, by the merest accident, (for honestly, it was not by design;
got four-of our principal characters together on board our favorite little
yacht, I am somewhat doubtful. about leaving them there alone in the'
schooner, particularly as it is night, and blowing rather fresh; besides,
they have not decided as yet which way they will steer, and if *e'
should lose sight of them now, don't you see it might take us a long'
time to hunt them up when we want their services again ; and then, as
this, is rather a history of those'stirring times on the frontier, as all
who 'shall read it and are well informed upon'; the subject will vouch,
rather than a kiud.of-" hop-skip," Wandering Jew novel, it will ber-
tainly appear more in character to keep dates, characters and events all'
along together, as nearly as circumstances will permit: wherefore, '
propose that we keep in company with the yacht till she inaken a
harbor somewhere.                   =
Recollecting,' thenthat Bill Johnson, alias Gen. Winchester;- Mar-
cus, the slave,, alias Steve Marvell; Ben. Letts, the Bravo, 'and ,Stahly
Morris, the young Lieutenant so lately rescued from prison,'are  there-
together in the cabin of the little blue schooner, which is some t ehty
miles outside the harbor of Kingston, with the breeze fresh from the
northward, we will, if you please, stow ourselves away in soni quiet
nook about the cabin, where we can both see and hear, until we learn
the decision of the council of four, who are about to determine the
present destination of the schooner and themselves.
" Well, Capt. Letts," exclaimed the smuggler, who is the first to
open the subject, "what do you say ?  Shall we haul her to, by the
wind, as soon as we are clear of Charity Shoals ?  We can fetch Gren.
adier Island, you know, and lay. there snug in .Basin Harbor, till this
wind dies away and comes out fair from some other quarter, when we
can run down the river to French Creek, in three or four hours. I
suppose our young friend here is quite as impatient to see one or two
of his friends at the Creek, and his own beautiful Island near by, as I
-am to see my family, from whom I have been absent much longer than
I intended."
'"I don't think we shall gain much by standing across for the islands,"
replied the commander of the craft; " it is blowing very strong, and we
can carry but little canvas by the wind ; besides, we shall find an ugly

_ ;

TgLA1BEfAVO

w53

,
f'gll7 u
fljf  iff;,
fi;  .t'1

s"

chop of a sea, as soon as we open put into'thi channel, by the head of
4ong Island. Qn the other hand,' f we'keep her afore it, we can bein
Geneee River 'inside of twelve hoirs  axd when the' wis d shifts to
the south'ad, we'll get under' weigh again immediately; for Fr nch
Creek.                                               .
"IDo you remem    ', all of you, that I have never seen  f sister
"And the young Captain--convict, felon, .Brav, ashe w;s--paused
abruptly in his speech, and covering phis face. with his hands, he sobbed
liie a very child. 'r.'
Let us. keep on to Genesee!" exdlained. the yoin  lieutenant
eagerly ; and the captain made a step towadis the companion-yay.
'~Iold, on, C4pt. 'Ben li'~ interposes. Steve. '; Just wait 'a' 'bit, ' and
let lne have my say. Now, when  e left- Miss Edith and' the  $Ier-
mik we promised to come. back just as soon as Capt. Ben'wag out' of
prison. Well, you'see, we've told almostt 'alieabout it: fob Capt. en
helped himself off without our knowing it, und we couldn't find hit till
he brought up at the 'Creek 'after that burn out at T oronto. And
.then, don't gou remember-Capt:Ben,-that yu and'I-°sworeto Miss
Kate to 'bring Stanly back with .us within twenty-four hours after we
should get him outside that old stone hulk? ?Ad now
ut the young commander rushed'to the"deck without'waiting for
S o include his argument; and in less};than thity minutes, the
'rk'a d plunge of the little vessel, as she pitched aadly into the short
quick sea, tol4 'plainly enought to those inthe' cabinthat she was hauled
to head to the eastward, while-the trapip 'of busy- feet on desk;'the
creaking of blocks, and the flapping slfck pf canvas, which lasted for
a teW minutes,4old equally plain that the 'little being was got under
snug sail.
Before twelve o'clock, the breeze, which here seldom holds on to the
o rthward for any great length of 'time; especiallyduri ngthe sutmer
months began to die away.and veer round to 'the westward, so that' by
two o'eiodk on 'the morning that the yacht left Kingston, she was' head.
ing'up N.-E., fair between the two lights which mark, duiing-the 'night,
the 'entrance on' the American'aide of the river ,t. Lawrence;' and
before 'two hours more- had -gone by;-the little, schooner' was gliding
along down the strong current of the beautiful river; close in with" the
shore in the American channel ; 'and as hour, perhaps, after sunrise,
the yacht was moored in' a snug little rocky cove on the eastern side
of Washington Island, within. two hundred yards' of thf smuggler's
home.J'St
'As 'I have already remarked, at the commencement of' this chapter,
mine is rather a history of those times than a romantic' novel, and I
shall on that account have nothin  to say relative to the:meeting of
Stanly Morris and the beautiful' Kate, leaving the reader to imagine
just such a scene as under the circumstances would seemh most natural.
But I 'mtist' pause for a 'fer moments to 'glance at' a scene which
occurred on the beautiful little islet described in the first chapter,' and
which' the reader will recollect as Linda's' Island, on the. second day
after the arrival of the yacht at the home of the smuggler.'
It is nearly the same hour as that on which I have, in the early part

A
1


Ii
I! I
{{j,
W ilu
' I l t iE rl
kl
if r ,fr

TUX LA1 g-'R-4VO.,

55

On the AneriQan side,.the sympathy for the Canadians -was:un-
bounded, and fifty thousand daring, reckless men (twenty true patriots
perhaps out ,of the whole number) were ready to shoulder.-their rifles
lid march into Canada.

NM             THE EMPRESS OF THI*E.ZSLES; Ota
of our acquaintance, pictured; the young sailorstanding -there by his
'mother's grave, and gazing with admiring eyes upo ;the gloriousarea-
tore whom he had just  escued .from the rnffian, Oliver Shepha4 as
he -angel girl twineshe garland of fresh-eulIed towers about the tone
head-stone.
The splendid little craft;which we have accompanied in her;enise,
from the time she sailed from Kingston till she wassafely moored in
the-smuggler's, cove, is, now lying there in the little winding inlet of
the island, alongside of the willow-clad bank, as quiet and gracefu as
a slumbering naiad ; while beside the lone grave kneels 'thejheroiand
heroine ofthe drama-Stanly Morris, the rescued prisonerr, e-lieu-
tenant of the British Navy-son of the unknown recluse ;.and that
superb creature-the village pet, Catharine Johnson-the ,'daughter
of the notorious smuggler, Bill Johnsoa-Kate, the future EMg sF o
THE ISLES,                     '
With clasped hands,'eyes upraised to heaven, and arms gently en-
circling each other's waists, they kneel there--there, beside the island
grave-and plight to each other their solemn, their nist saicredfaith ;
and as th- lovers can very well dispense with our company, we will
leave them there to heaven and themselves, while we 'take hurried
glance at the times and condition of thing in Canada at.that period.
For several years the liberal, or, as it was called in 'Canada, radical
party, had been gradually gaining ground, particularly in, what{was
then the Upper Province, where the constant and gowinnteeourse
with their near neighbors on the American side, had imbued tha people
.with ideas of improvement and. government reform to such a degree
that they determined. to ask boldly of not only the Colonial but the
Government of Great Britain, for a redress, of many wrongs to which_
they had hitherto patiently submitted, and among which were unjust
taxation1unequal representation and several other abuses of which they
knew that the people of Great ritain were free, and argued that those
of the Colonies ought to be equally so.
William Lyon McKenzie, the champion of radical reform in the
West, and the proprietor of a public journal in Toronto, was denounced
as a traitor, his paper suppessed by order of government, and'his press,
together. with all his materials, to the amount of several thousan  dol-
jars, were destroyed;
This high-handed act of tyranny, coupled with previous abuses,
aroused the slumbering spirit of a people naturally quiet, and every-
where a final resort.to arms began to be whispered among all classes of
society. An indignation meeting was called in the city of Toronto, peo-
ple cameinby thousands from. the surrounding country, gathered in the
Market Square, and the excitement became. intense. The roof of the
market house, densely covered with people, fell in, several were killed,
many were.horribly mangled, and the "murder" was foolishly charged
upon the government.                         .    .
In the L9wer Province Papineau was marshaling his forces ; but
with the French habitans, iess acyainted with republicanism than the
people of Upper Canada, and calculated by nature to rest content under
any government, he was much less successful than McKenzie. in the
West

N       5
y    T n
_«X
r, yl f :5
', 3bri1f
}plFp+ w
loo-
,Rv
r3
r vn
_r
,1,

CHAPTER XII..               f     tr,
THE HEROINE'S PROPOSAL--THE THREE FRIENDS--THE CAVE. Ag4inDI-
A.QPINTMENT--IYSTERY-THE. LETTER-THE RESOLVE AND "sEPARA-
TION.
"0, sudden was the'wrench that tore
Affection's firmest link apart;
And doubly barbed the;shaft we wore
Deep in each bleeding heart of beart.
ALARIC A. WArrg.-
Foa three days had the rescued prisoner, Stanly Morris, together!
with his two friends, Young Letts and the noble sailor Steve Marvell,
remained the guests of Johnson, the smuggler, during Which -tiie
Stanly and Kate had been almost constantly together, conve-sing of
the past, enjoying the present, and drawing glorious dream-pictures of
the future ; when Kate, who had been intently listening to Steve's ao-
count of the Hermit's cave, and-the wild scenery-about it, suddenly-left
her seat, and going over to where Stanly was engaged.in conversation
with her father; took his arm and led 'him from the house; and along
a narrow, rugged path, which wound ainong.the rocks, until they reach-
ed a retired. spot; formed by a projecting ledge, and shaded by a few-
dwarf pines, the only trees on the barren, 'ocky islet; seated herself
upon a rude bench, and motioning Stanly to a place beside her, thus
addressed him-
aO 'Stanly! I have' thought so much about that poor maniac: girl-
there in the cave. - Day .and night, ever since my father and Steve,
returned from Genesee, more than two months ago, that poor girl and
her sorrows have been constantly in my mind. At night, inniy sleep
I dream of ier ; and in my waking hours it seems as if nmy spirit held
communion with "her's, till next to you and my parents, I love her better
than any one else on earth. I have been thinking how much better it
would be for her to be here with me, than shut up there in that dark,
gloomy cave. I would love her so, and take her with me in my little
boat, when I go over to our beautiful island yonder.' 0, it would.
be' such a pleasure 'for me to sing to her, and 'show her all the wild,
beautiful scenery among these fairy islands 1' I know, Stanly,,that L
can charm away her madness, and bring, happiness back, once more
to her bleeding heart. And then, dear Stanly, when we are--"
The beautiful girl hesitated, turned away her face and blushed crim-
son, but a moinent afterwards she recovered her self-possession, and.
looking -archly up into her lover's eyes, she spoke the words withqt*
faltering-'                                             ",

biI
7L.Ip'44
1 "Ii


1v!  I
Vo

S faniedatda have ourtbwn iniot little homeion the ishuldour poor
Edlth en always live *ith us, and-be our siater..
And now; what w']Ia-it to ask you- is this --Ben amin Letts and
Stephen are to sail to-morrow in the schooner for Genesee River; will
you go with them, Stanly, and endeavor to persuade Letts to bring
Edith here, or let her come with you ?"
" Heaven bless you ! Angel thiat you are," exclaimed Stanly, as
he embraced the noble, generous hearted girl; "bless you for the
thought, Kate.  It is just. wl t I haye been thinking about ever since
I have heard poor Edith's story., I wil[ speak to Letts about it.
at once, and I have no doubt that he will gladly resign his unhappy
sister to your sisterly care- for hieowi life wil henceforth-be-a wild,
stormy one; ie has himself swordi it; and he will find little leisure to
soothe and comfort the afflicted girl.
" And now, my dear Kate, will ygu accompany, me to the good
old minister's ?  If I am to go hence tomorrow, it is necessary that
I should see him-.at-once, as I wish tQ give ;him instructions concern-
ing a cottage.;which I have already authorized him to have built on
the exact spot where my mother's stood ; and Kate, I wish you, as
the future iiistress of our island, home,.to lavt the sole control of
its-internal;ariangemeut; and.I will here make- you acquainted with
secret which perhaps some very romantic lovers would, doubtless
conceal till after marriage, which is, that the worthy old: pastor, Mr.
Andrews, holds in trust for me, from my mother, nearly thirty thou-
sand dollars in cash."-
This knowledge, Stanly Morris," replied the true-hearted girl,
" does not make, you.any dearerto me, or more worthy of my deepest, -
holiest affections, But, thank you,.a thousand times thank you,.dear
Stanly, for the confidence you.have thus placed in me.  And now,
let us away to Mr. Andrews' at once, for I'm sure I shall never be
quite satisfied till we have our poor Edith with us, and never quite
happy. till we'are married, Stanly"-.-and this time the lovely girl spoke
the word without hesitating ; and having thus settled the question
with regard to the maniac maiden, they left their pine-shaded seat, and
took their way towards the parsonage.      .
t was 'some timne past nine o'clock when Stanly and Kate left the
good old :minister, and after a few minutes' walk througli the quiet.
streets of the village, they returned to the smuggler's residence, where
Stanly immediately informed his friends of Kate's proposal, and asked'
Letts if he waswilling that Edith .should become her companion, as she
desired..
"Am I willing !" exclaimed Letts, astonished at the question. " Why
not ask me if I would be willing t be restored. to-or rather have all,'
everything of which I hale been deprived, restored to rue; my sister
first, and next to her,: her reason? $?ay God. forever bless you both,
for your kindness to one who -has nothing bat his thanks left, to offer in
roturn..
it Was- accordingly agreed that Stanly should sail with Letts and
$*h9e'ia the yacht, and return with Edith, while Letts himself declared
#d d  "oeas he had, spen his sister safe under the protection of his
friendshe would seek the first opportunity of returning to Canada, where,

every enegy-of his noturd, and every nionietyof ltisffdihre existeien
should be devoted'to vengeance against the goverimeat rahd those who
bad sodeeplyrfoully wronged 'him.
The company, with the exception of Stanly and Kate raired for the
night:; and 'theyalthough they had'sdareely lopt WtiIhour  durlngthe
two.precedig nights, had still so nmoh to saf te'nach  tho, ath whei
the sun roseron the follo*ingmornink, they  e e°;et; silyehgagen I in
conversation  and even after breakfast-the yacht 'ws'ell ready t4 gail
and oily waited for"Saanly;'he was obliged to tear himself ndy'fronr
the girl he loved, leaving a thousand important things unsaid.
.-Like. some gorgeous creat'ion.of the fancf, entcareeri g ei her
swift couse that exquisite little draft,, propelled by a tatton  steady
breeze from the eastward - and when the' sin'ent'down o that asula4
mer evening, she was cleaving, the bright bhe' *Mvesof old'Oita*Io
within-thirty miles of her desirnatio.
ysThe harbor wis gained,'he-schooner waskpt on along up the  iid-'
ing river, until she arrived at the landing where we have oncebefore
seen her; and here she was-again:secured to th4yold 'wharf after which
the three friends entered into conversation to while away the time till
daylight, as they did not choose to disturb the Hermitorhis charge'
.   during the night. '  .
In the morning; after waiting some time in the hopes that the Her-
mit would make his appearance, they' left the 'schooner, Steve 1 ading
the way, and began climbing up the rugged path that led'tie'thc ve
Stanly and Letts declaring that it was the wildest, -mostdesolate look-
ing place they had ever dreamed of.
At'length the little plateau was gained, and Steve discovered that
the entrance of the cave was carefully closed 'with the two pieces of
U     plank, justas he had seen them when he first visited thespot, and the
idea suggested itself to him iii a moment, that the Hermit was not
in the cave, as he could not arrange the planks in that manner from
within.
Without, however, eammunicating his suspicious to his companions,
he removed the planks and entered the cave; but all within was dak
and silent as the- tomb.
After a few moments' search, Steve found the curtain which con-
cealed the passage leading to the inner cave, and taking Letts by the
hand, who in his turn took that of 8tanly, they ill three groped their
way slowly along through the intricate, uneven avenue, and finally
emerged into the larger apartmevt,.where the darkness was so intense
that it seemed tangible.
For several moments they stood there inthe most profound silence,
and then Steve ventured to speak Edith's nine aloud. But there was
no response ; all remained as before, dark-dreary-silent. Again he
called-." Edith 1"  Silence was his: only, answer.  Impatieritly, he
shouted at the very'highest pitohtof his  voice-4 Edith l? and in an
instant the name was yelled back in ten thousand echoes, and in tones
so shrill, so terrific, that all clapped their hands upon their ears, to.
shut out the painful vibrations.
Like a cavern on one of the islands in lake Erie, the Genesee grotto
possesses the property of giving back an echo only when a word is-

THE EMPligg OFf T0E 'ISLES ; OR,

5b

.
"

ST


i1

'HE E P   ; ~ ~ OF .  IS LES ; OR,

spoken-above a certain pitch-of the voice..: But Steve and-his company
rona underatood nothing of this phenomenonof nature, and were at first
disposed toattribute these terrible sounds to some Infernal, orfat-least
s crpaturat agency
'Lfter a, few moinents, however, when they had somewhat.recoverd
from. ilteir eudden .stupor, they began to grope aboutin the dark in
senrc of something, they.scarcely -ksew:wbat, but feeling-as' though the
very touch of some object., no matter-what, so that it ,wasa an object,
uould drive ota superstitious dread, a cold, shuddering sensation of
fear, which they felt.creeping over them.
Before he had made half a dozen steps, Stanly stumbled against some
fibect, which-he soop discovered, to be a table ; and almost at the same
instant, his ani came in contact, first with a box of matches, and then
a  iamp, bot. placed. near each other on the tablet
The .lamp was soon lighted, and the: first object that met Stanly'sw
eye, wasba letter which had, been placed beside the lamp, and which,"on
examining it, he found ftobe directed,' in a tery elegant hand-westing,
to " William Johnson, Esq.,.or Mr. Stephen Marvell."  -
'C This must of course be for you, Steve, as the other person whose
namesit"bears is not present,"asaid Stanly, handing the letter to Steve,
who immediately opened it, and after poring over its contents for a few
moments, handed it back to Stanly, requesting him to read it, observing
at the saume time, that he could read bunting a great deal better than
he could iminusoript.
,Sanly tookthe letter, and read aloud as follows:
AUUST 27th, 1837.
Iin case you should visit the cave and find me gone, do not wait my
return. Three days since, as my child was walking on the bank of the
river at' the point below here, as .has-been her wont of late, she was
suadeindy seized by a ruffian; hurried into a boat, and conveyed on
board a schooner which was then under weigh, and carried off, before I
could, interfere. I. caught a distant view of .the ruffian's face, and I
would swearit was that of a wretch whom you may perhaps have met
in eO nada-=Oliver Shephard. I hear that Col. Moody is ordered to
Malden, and I go thither in search of my lost child. I
TIE HERMIT.
The face of Benjamin Letts, as he listen d to that terrible letter,
was as'pale as marble ;F but he was very calm when he spoke to Stanly,-
and informed him that he should start at once, and post through
Canada in search of Edith.
.MidiIshalstart, too, by the first boat going up Lake Erie, and
will meet dyou'in Malden;"osaid- Stanly.
"And I'll be off up through the Welland Canal with our little
beauty down there, and I'll meet you both somewhere," exclaimed
Steve; and the three friends left the cave, to go in search of Edith,
each by a different route.      -

68

N order to explain to the reader's satisfaction the mystery of Edith's
bductionfrom the cave,.it will be necessarysto go back a few days, and
follow the lawyer, Oliver Shephard, from the hotel in Kingston, at 'the
'time he withdrew so suddenly, after the rather abrupt termination of
his conversation with the negro, Marcus.
As ha passed down the steps, he encountered one of his acquaint-
ances who' iad just. arrived from Rochester, who informed him that,
in passing down the Genesee in the steamer, he had seen.Edith Letts
walking alone near the water, and as she was without shawl or bonnet,
it was, but reasoible to suppose that her' residence was' near by,
although there were no houses in sight from the steamer's deck, except.
three or four old ruins which did not appear .to be inhabited.
This, person who gave Shephard the information, had known Edith
from her childhood, and it was not at all likely that he could be mistaken
in the person.
The ever-scheming villian determined to turn this news to his own
advantage, and as soon as he"could get rid of his acquaintance, he hur-
ried to the quarters of Col. Moody, and, informing him that he had
obtained  a clue, which he doubted:not if followed up would lead to the
discovery of the mniden's retreat, offered for a certain sum to place
Edith once more in the libertine's power.
Col. Moody's burning, unholy passion for the hapless girl was'stronger
than ever, inasiruich as it was now coupled with the direst hate and
deadliest vengeance of which his black heart was capable, against her
brother-und now, since that brother's escape from pr-ison and the
destruction of the beautiful cottage, this hate and desire for venge-
ance was ten times redoubled ;. and he did not hesitate a single instant
at the terms proposed, but informed ''Shephard that, provided he was
successful, it would be necessary to carry Edith to Malden, a British
town and garrison on the Detroit River, near Lake Erie, as he' was
himself ordered to that post, and should leave Kingston on the follow-
ing day.
Shephard, fully satisfied that the intelligence received from his
friend was to be relied upon, immediately chartered a small, fast-sailing
schooner;owned and commanded .by a vile miscreant named Neal, who

-    Hfl  L   E    AitO'.
CHIAP TE R XIII
nTIE ABDUC'ION--&amp;A FEW OF STEVE MARVELLi eAVENTURES AND ONB OP
STANLY'&amp; -A .F104481    BROTHER .AND. -A RIVAL   lSTER -KATE:    .O-
The future is more present than the past;
*or one look back, athousaMden w ,east;
And hope doth ever memory outcast."
And is he gone "--on sudden'solitude
How oft that fearful question will intrude r
BYRON-THE CORSAIR.

lip,
loo
,If 401ji
Ni
1h   j  M1
IRA'
k
W
OIL
1  1

y
L.U3
,ri
K
, 

.  ,
{
,.
F r
k
e
i
r .
F"


41MA

THE. F?*F   0*j TflIK -ISLES; OR,

had formerly officiated as public hangman in the Midland District, and
who would not scruple to commit any crime, provided he was paid for
it. With such a craft, such a commander, and two villanous scoun-
drels whose conscience and characters were perfectly in keeping with
the rest,;Oive Sephrd 4ole&amp; orqn gee- River on his third kid-
napping expedition, on the morning of the very day that the blue yacht
made her appearane inithe harbor of Kin 'iton- so that, 'had the first
eonnsei of Ben Letts- bo~n ;foll)Vwed that eveni ; after the- escape of
Stanl Morris. and had the yacht been kept off for Genesee, instead of
being hauled to for the 1iver St. Lawrence, they would have arrived in
time to prevent the second outrage upon the person of the unfortunate
Edith.
But fate willed it otherwise ; and the young Bravo steered his gal-
a'T               'lant little craft towards Ereneh Creek, all'unconscious' of the danger
thThe schooner'that Shephard had employed, arrived at her destination
at an early hour on the moning after she left Kis ton, and;assing
up the river to within about' three quarters o   ea nleth Hermit's
caveshe was hauled i alongside the bank, where she laiyalmno t entirely
egncealed 'by the overhanging boughe of the giant old trees that grew
quite down to the, water's edg e..
qeore two hours had gon 1by, afer the schooner was iauled up in
her place of concealment, Shephard ,who was on the look out discovered
'he form' of Edith near the :old  vhiarf   t the landing ;  hut she was on
or                                                               to attem  h er
her way towards thie carver and, toop far distant for himr . to:tept:he
° ' Ild'        rapture,  particularly as he 'yaw the form of the hermit half exposed
among thbusheshitka short distance up the path which led'.to the
cave.'tx
On the following mornin he was more successful for, as he lay con-
;}                 coaled in a little thicke on the point below the landing, Edith suddenly
made her appearance, and passed within a few feet of where he lay.
The moment that her back was towards him, the villain sprang forth
from his ambush, caught her ip.inhis arms, ad, in spite of her utnost
struggles and frantic screams, be bore her to a boat that was in waiting
near at hand, in which she was'coreyed on board the schootier,.which
was immediately kept off' down the river before a strong breeze, and
" +}'C               once more Edith Letts was in the power of her's and her brother's
enemies.                             .a
e nThe Hermit' had witnessed tho abduction of the maiden from a dis-
tance.--but he was unable to rescue. her - and so, after waiting three
days in hopes that the yacht, with some of'Edith's friends would arrive,
5his indignation at the outrage, and his love for the poor maniac girl,
overcame.all other considerations, and he set out in search of her, on'
the very morning before the arrival of her brother, Stanly Morris, and
A                  Steve Marvell at the cave.
We have heard each one of the three friends express his determina-
a                 tion to go at once in search of the lost Edith, and it will be recollected
that Steve had made known his intention of taking the yacht through
into, Lake Erie, by way of the Welland Canal - and as this was the
only route that could be followed by the vessel which had carried off
the girl, Steve would be, the most likely one of the three to fall in with

he r, partieotarly a accident: frequently oeeurred in the canal16aigaA
tion of that period, which would sometimes'detain vessels for: abwhoe
week at a time.
Steve -was eery well aware of this, and he argued that perha t
schooner might be hindered until he could overtakejher an    he
did.-- thee was no audible expression of his thoughts; but be laid
his hand upon the butt of a pistol, that ust peeped out in sight from 
pcein his- jacket, nd she shook hip head somewhat innonlya'as
She cave and strode along down the path. towards' the yacht, of
which he  was now the commander.
The schooner was immediately got' under weigh and stood:off de t.
the river ; but as Capt. Steve had only a lad of about niteen soassit
him, he determined to stop at Charlotte and ship a couple of inen;. pte.
vided he could find them.
In less than an hour thetyacht was alongside one-of the wharves at.
Charlotte, and Steve was fortunate enough in finding two.smartlook.iiyg
youin      ho hhad just left a schooner, and whom he shipped fber
cruise in the yacht.
In another hour the little craft was outside the harbor, and= bdawling
it off with a fine fresh breeze towards Port 'Dall'ausie.
- Before noon, on the -succeeding day, Steve had his vessel in the canal
with two horses attached to the towline as a motive power ; an4 when._
he reached St. Catharines, some five miles from the 'entrance'of the
canal, he left the yacht in- charge of his two sailors,' and 'walked' ip into
the town in order to gather, if possible, some information of Shephard,
or the vessel he was in search of, as he had little doubt that she must
He had passed along a considerable distance through one of the.
streets, without yet having met any one of whom he cared to make.
inquiry respecting the schooner, when some person suddenly grasped
his arm, and 'ono turning his headlie beheld standing beside him ae
giant in stature, who, while he retained his grasp in one, hand, pointed
with the other to a hand-bill, conspicuously posted on a building=in
front of which they were standing, and asked him if he did nob think'
the.description of a certain person named therein' as NepdenMart el
for whom a reward of two hundred pounds was offered by the goven-
ment, would not very well answer for him I
Steve saw at a single glance thathe was diseevered--betrayed adJ
inan instant his hand was upon his weapon ; but 'before he could drawa
his pistol from his bosom, the=stranger made 'a significant 'gesture and
spoke a low word of caution iri his'- ear and then drawing him aslie
from the public street into a narrow, unfrequented-'alley, he thustads
dressed him-
'Iff'you are that' bra'e fellow;Stephen'Marvell/ let ne tell you that
in the whole world =you have not a 'more devoted friend than myself'
I am a merchant of Kingston, and although, I have 'never seen ye
befe, yet I love and admire yonufor your noble devotion'and gahlans
daringit behalf of our mutual friend, 'theunfortunate and much- ongedi
Letts.                                                         -
"'That -scoundrel, :Shephard, passed 'here yesterday, with a small
vessel, bound. I dare 'say, on -acoe fresh errand of " nischieL - Buttny


.   6 -'          THE EMPRESS :OF- THE -s!Es; OR,
fre  d  et m   nretyuto     be  more  cautious.  Don't htfus' expose:
yourif ,ina-the. streets, ,as you. are- liable, to be recognized at any no
ont and a discovery would be fraught with the most serious cons--
qeneto you, to thegod cause we are engaged in, and to others,
perhaps whom your garrestmight involve in difficulty."
Steve thanked -hisstranger friend for his very timely ea tion and
advice ; and with a promise to heed his warning in future, he' took his
leave both of him and the village; and followed. on after the, yacht,
which hdh this- time got more than ab, mile ahead.-
For more than five miles after leaving St Catharines, the Wlland
Canal is one constant successionof locks, making the navigation diet.
cult, and rendering the passage of, a vessel through, slow and -tedious
in the extreme; so that when night eame on, the yacht had still some
half dozen of those water-steps to pass, by which vessels climb and
descend the mountain which -forma Niagara Falls.
Just as they were passing -the last lock, before " tying op" for the,
niht, Steve learned from the lock-tender, that at the village-of Tho
ra d, not more than half a mile distant, there was a little black schooner 
which had been lying up.yall.day, while the captain and his crew, together
with a gentleman named Shephard, had been searching everywhere, with'
twenty of dthe:villagers to assist them, for the daughter of this passen-.
ger Shephard, who was deranged, and had somehow managed to escape-
frota the-vessel the night previous.
Steve'knew in a moment, of course, that. the crazy daughter of the
 passenger was none other than Edith Letts.; and totally forgetful of
the caution he had received from, or the promise he had made to bia
friend at St. Catharines so recently, -he determined to visit the village.
and schooner immediately, for the purpose of ascertaining if any tidings
had been received of the missing ,girl
The canal passes through: the centre of. the village, and as Steve fol-
leed ,along the tow-path, he soon discovered the schooner moored
alongside the bank, and the idea occurred to him that it would be
nite as proper to inquire for Edith on board, as of any one:else;, and
a~               a..t was by no means likely that Shephard would be there,-N  'hould
I  rw Ics~risk of :being detected himself than h -should by going, fjto
one of the public houses of the village. -
With this intention, he walked aboard by means of a long 'plank that
lay one end on.-the- bank and the,other on the schooner's rail  u
g noone         dek ad     e    n being locked, he concluded tha
there was:no person on board, adaturvnedi.to:depart.
midway o the narrow plank, as he retraced his, footsteps towarda-
the bank, he encountereda maaan,- ad that, man was the villain, Oliver
*Shephard.
,1eve'* 1kat thoughtand'anotion was :toards the loaded pistol in
hi -bosom; but the newinstant liis purposewas changed,=and qu.ick.
as-thought, be-drove his clenched-fist with the force of a sledge-haniner,,
are-into the face and eyes of the lawyer-spy, with such; tremeno ,
fir . that be senthin backwards, dwinio~the canal1liks-a 1weg of
lead.
teve-knew that Shephard had recognized him; and .he knew; also,
  that  ouaine-d w   t sgoe th alarmia the moment he eegd from,

'PHE "LAKE, BRAVO.
the canal, if-he should-sueceed inA gettingout alive; and-for a -moment
Steve was-.j ndeeided what to. do, but the next- her leaped' to the shored
and darted awayalong the towpath like the winud-..n jn the 4dreetilr
of the yacht, but the-opposite one. He knew thatbis own vessel would
bet subject to the closest scrutiny hy the authorities, and so he deter.
mined to seek for safety Aud concealhent on board some other Aneican
vessel wich' he m ight find along the canal.
]bf re he had gained five hundred yards, he heard the voice of
2*     Shephard shouting the alarm, -and.,ore mnay-moments had- gone- by
dth  wa the  ick tramp of.many feet sounding along the  ath he
had taken, in hot .pursuit.                   aln
After passing nearly a dozen vesselslaid up along the bank, Steve
t engh espied a large topsail schooner, the appearance of'whieh seemed
to suit hin, and leaping on her rail, he flew up the fore-ri ging like a
c:t. Up, phe went ; up, the top-mast to the gallant rigging'; and in
a nute from the moment he landed .on, the rail, he was
lying etretehed out fair on top of the top-gallant sail; altogether invisi-
ble fronithe; deck.,                          - ."1
de was not a moment too soon in finding a hiding pice, for scarcely
had he straightened himself out on the lofty yard, when a perfect mob
of villagers, led on by the foaming lawyer, and backed:by some twenty
sodie  iane yelling on, searching every vessel in their way with the
most vigilant care,
Atlength the unavailing search was ended, and the disappointed
rabble, with the still more 'disappointed lawyer-spy, returned to-the
village,, when Steve;:descended. from his perch, and made the captain
acquainted with his situation and the particulars of the incident Which
had.just occurred
The captain, after he had heard Steve's story,-roposed to hi
remain on board his vessel until they should getr aro ose to c   to
offered to send one of his own -men on board the yacht to ielp work her
"-    throughh;                        . .    ;.   -      -
-Steve accepted this very kind offer, and remained concealed in the
cabin till the schooner reached the terminus 'of the canal, which was
sowet~inieafter dark on the following day, when he had thewsatisfac-
tion of seeing the schooner of Shephard leave the harbor, and also of
knowing that the villas .had been unsuccessful in his search'for poor
Wa 0n be left the canal-with the yacht, it was with the intention of
making the best of his way to Malden, for the purpose of nieeting his
fres, san  making thea acquainted with the: particulars of Edith's
escpe, so fiahe- knew- teo
Havi g followed.Stee and the 'yacht thus far, let: us now return
to the caye, nd start tgain with Stanly,:who, it will be recollected,
was boun on the same errand as Letts and Steve, but by a different'
-route.. - - - 7
*Foq{thecave,,-le went. directly to, Rochester- -some four niles
distant, where he took the first packet for Buffalo, and on hisat'rival
in taatyi heembathed imiedi tely in the first steamer bound to
s steamer, in atteRptig eto entr the- bey';of Sandusky in the-

Ii


"III
I +
14
72 ' +
101 'r

THR-LAKE BRAVO.

THE E1DIPRESS OF  THE !ISLES ; OR,

night, ran into a brig beatings out; or 'thebrig ran into the st'atner,;it
was never quite;plain which; 'but one thing .was exceedigly plamn
whibchwas, that the brig was sunk almost, instantly, the: steamer's
gard and wheel-house were}nearly all torn away, five  of her passengers
killed outright, and several -others severely injured, among whom was
Stanly Morris; who had his left leg and tight arm broken ; and he
was other wise so crushed and bruisedthat the guirgeons at Sandusky,
whither-he was earried: with the other sufferers, said that, there, was not
one chance out of five hundred for him to recover.
Doctors, however, like lawyers and other.people, are liable to make
sad mistakes sometimes. I throw out this hint; in order that myreaders
may not anticipate an event asinevitable, which in realityis' not so,
and go into premature mourning for our hero.-
I. will anticipate, however, not the events, but-time, and tell you most
positively- that Stanly Morris- did -not- die ; ;but'for! two long, weary
months, he lay there writhing upon a bed of anguish, hovering upon
the very borders of the grave, ipore than half the tite delirious ; raving
of his absent, far-off friends, and all the while clinging to life by a grasp
so feeble that the slightest mischance might break it, and- launch him
into eternity-consign him to an known grave.
A constitution naturally robust, aided by the most vigilant care of an
attentive nurse and the no mean skill of an accomplished surgeon, at
length triumphed as it would seem, almost over death itself, and the
invalid began at length slowly to recover.
In one of his lucid intervals, soon after-his injuries had been received,
Sanly dictated a letter to Katerin which--he made her acquainted with
his situation, and begged her to write to him immediately ; but days
and weeks went by, until months were counted, and not a single line
did 'he;receive to tell hini that he was still remembered.
At'last, when nearly three months had expired, and he was able to
sit up, and read; 'and, evea walk about for a short time, a letter was
brought him one day. The very first look at the missive, brought a
fresher,healthier glow to his pale cheek; than had visited it for'many
a day. Well it might, for the letter was from his Kate, his betrothed"
wife. It was the post-mark of her village ; it was directed in her own
beautiful hand-writing.
Eagerly he broke the seal, a single glance, -and:then he sank back t
his seat, his face, which a moment before was glowing red now as pale
as marble. Every feature, nay, his whole'frame, seemed cohvillsed with
some terrible agony.
But iddenly as if by the exercise of an indomitable, iron will, he'
hadistifled every emotion of his heart ; he became won4erfully calm,and
commenced reading the 'letter.with as, little appearance of feeling as
though it had been but an idle paragraph, in which he had no partica.
lar interest.
With an author's privilege in such matters, I will invite you to te
a peep with me, over the young man's shoulder, and we to - will read
the letter.
GNo wonder that the cheek of 8tanly M'orris paled,'and his. lip quiv-
ered, and a pang of more than mortal agony thrilled his heart  is
eyes fell upon'the very first words of that letter.

65

" Mr. Stanly Morris !" Is it thus you would expect a betrothed
wife to commence a letter to one who has once rescued her from a fate
ten thousand times worse than death, to one who is almost her hus-
band .
But let us read :
"Ma.StANLY MORRs:---When you left us had th         ve been
offered me to resign life forou, I youl have hasw alternatingly
-take my life. .How littled Iu kohave answered unhesitatigly
loved you, and now I know it was only gratitude. I knrt. ouh ae
I now love in reality and that lovas or gantituer on whom yo, heause
never seen, nor had I, when you left us.
Trusting that this'will find you so far recovered as to be able to
respond in person, I shall look for a letter from you, canceling all our
engagements to each other.      r   sedmyo,
Yours, in friendship,
C. JOHNSoN."
" Heartless ! I thought she was an angelandsheis -; but I will
not censure; it is sufficient that she is false."',u         wl
Thus spake Stanly Morris, as he crushed the cold, heartless epistle
in his clenched hand.'p
We will linger near the almost maddened invalid onl l
to hear him renounce the false-hearted girl, and swear never o enough
more, and then away on the wings of Arid to the home of the
gler, where we shall find---. Why, I have told you somewhere, that
Kate had a sister and two brothers ; and now I will tell you that that
sister, Harriet Johnson, is the rival of her own sister. She loves Stanly
Morris, and is determined to win him. And her brother-one of them
-is almost a fool in all but cunning, and in that he is       em
satan himself. He has taken a strange dislike to Stanlya ati for
partly to torment him, and partly to please his sister Harriet, that he
has destroyed the letter written by Stanly without Kate ever having
seen it, and wrote the other, which we have read over the invalid's
shoulder.
We might have known, and so might Stanly Morris, that Kate-bis
ate-never could have written that cruel letter. Poor girl, she was
almost frantic-with doubt, fear and despair.  More than three month
had gone by, and not one word from the man she loved. Poor Kate I
5

04


66

THE EMPRLS Of THE ISLES; OR,

CHAPTER XIV.
THE TORCH OF WAR-THE SAILOR-sOLDIER-THE ISLAND CAMP-PREPA-
RATIONS FOR THE BATTLE.
Say, heard ye the notes of dread battle arrayed,
Where foemen meet foemnen, and bared is the blade's
On the confines of Erie their legions are met,
And the war-torch is lighted-0, who shall forget 7
I MIGHT go on, writing page after page, telling you all about our
hero's mental anguish. his heart-torture, and all the frenzy of his mad-
dened brain, which followed the reception of that cold, chilling letter.
I might tell you how our heroine, tortured by doubt and uncertainty
with regard to-the fate of the man she loved more than life, was driven
to the very verge of despair. I might-but no; I should only exhaust
my own veracity and imagination, the publisher's limits, and your own
patience,,in telling you just what you may find in three-quarters of our
modern fashionable novels.
As for- opir other characters, scattered as they -are, broad-cast iii the
west, it wonld require more time and labor to track them in their
leccentric courses, than the limits of our story will warrant ; and for the
present I will leave them wherever they are, merely observing that
Edith Letts escaped from the ruffian who had her in charge, and found
an asylum with the family of an honest old farmer, where she now
remains. Shephard is prowling about Detroit, acting as a spy for the
colonial government.. Col. Moody is in command of the garrison at
Malden. Steve Marvell, having laid up the yacht in Detroit, is search-
ing everywhere in the west for some news of his friends ; while Letts
and the Hermit are-    we don't know where. But the first we shall
meet ere two days more have gone by.
More than'three months have mingled their hours and days with the
great ocean of the past, since the morning that the three friends sailed
in the yacht from French Creek, and with the exception of the foolish
brother and rival sister, no one in the village of Clayton had heard
anything of the wanderers or the maniac maiden, save some vague
reports brought by a disinterested voyager perhaps, of the yacht being
laid up in Detroit ; and once or twice something very indefinite was
told, of a crazy girl who escaped from a vessel in passing through the
Welland Canal.
It was the month of December, and old Winter had again wrapped
the earth in his snow mantle-again bound the lakes and rivers of the
north in his ice-fetters.
Many events of a startling nature have occurred within these last
three months.
In Canada, the low, suppressed whispers of dissatisfaction have
swelled into the loud, portentous growls of rebellion.
Foremost in the spirit of radical reform, the people of the Gore
district have elected their champion--William Lyon McKenzie-to a

{ i
,I
"  i
,    ,
;    t ;
'
i
a!

THE LAKE BRAVO.
seat in Parliament. He was immediately expelled from his. seat by a
majority of the aristocratic members, and carried back to it in triumph
by the people. Again he was driven forth-a strong military force was,
posted in the grounds and passages of the capitol, and at the point
of the bayonet the members of Parliament enforced their unlawful
edict.
This last act of high-handed injustice could noI, would not, be borne
by people, who had already submitted too long to the tyranny and des-
potism of a purse-proud aristocracy. By thousands, they flew to arms
from every town and hamlet, and from all the surrounding country
they hastened to the capital, and Toronto was besieged.
There was a battle ; but British bayonets and soldierly discipline.
were more than a match for popular fury, backed as it was by vast odds
in point of numbers. The people were routed, a few lives were lost,
many prisoners taken, and McKenzie, with many others, were declared
traitors.
Here I would pause to relate an incident of ferbeious, cold-blooded
barbarity, unparalleled in the history of the civilized world.
Among the prisoners taken was Col. Lount, an old gray-headed
veteran, universally beloved for the many noble qualities of his head
and heart.
He was tried by a military tribunal, and -sentenced to death as a
traitor.
It was evening when his almost heart-broken wife, accompanied by
her eleven children, sought the Governor General, and in tones of
impassioned eloquence, besought, on bnded knee, pardon for a hus
band-:-a father.d                            ,       f
, The Governor raised the agonized wife from the floor, quieted her
fears, and bade her come to him at sunrise on the following morning
assuring her that she should have her husband restored to her.
The morning came, and with a bland smile upon his face, the'Gov.
ernor of Canada-offered his arm to the sobbing wife, to conduct her to
her husband.
As they reached the prison-yard, the ponderous gate swung back on
its hinges, and stepping within the inclosure, the smiling Governor
pointed to a frozen corpse swaying to-and fro in the wind, suspended
by the neck from a gallows, and very calmly spoke-" There, madam,
is your husband ; you can have -him.
There was a single moment of silence, and then a wild, long-drawn-
out wail of agony, rang out on the morning air, and the next instant
the heart-broken woman sank down a corpse at the feet of the smiling,
epauletted brute.
This was but one of a thousand acts of a similar character perpe-
trated during the Canadian reign of terror ; but this was the first , and
coupled with the outrage upon the few remaining rights of a suffering
people, it was sufficient to fan the long pent-up Ores of discontent into
the scathing flames of rebellion.
The torch of civil war was lighted, and everywhere in Canada, and
along the whole frontier on the American side, thousands were secretly
arming for the fray..
In all the towns and villages throughout northern Ohio meetings


.j             THE EMPRESS :1 -THE ISLES ; OR,
were called, at which inflammatory speeches were made, arms and other
plies were voted, Canadian expeditions- planned, and sympathy for the.
patriot cause was excited to the highest pitch.-
J Sandusky city, a body of Americans; to the number of  more than
four hundred, had- assembled, composed mostly of boys, who possessed
as little patriotism as they did knowledge of arms ; but they had little
else to occupy their leisure hours during the winter, and so they were,
anxious to become brigands, and invade Canada-never once reflecting,
perhaps, that what was perfectly justifiable on the part of the Cana-
dians themselves, would be an act of downright piracy on their part.
Stanly Morris, who had entirely recovered from his wounds; was
appointed as a captain in this ultra-republican army, and with his
brother officers, not one of whom, the commander included, had any
more knowledge of military matters than himself, he was busily en-
gaged in making preparations for the proposed invasion.
On the Canada side of Lake Erie, and separated from the main land
by a narrow channel, is a beautiful -island, some five miles in length
and two in breadth, called Point as Pelee island, taking its name from
a point of land directly opposite on the main. The northeastern end
of this island is owned, or was at that-time, by a wealthy old Scotch.
man named McCormick, who cultivated a farm of several hundred
acres ; but all the southern portion was covered with a dense growth
of cedar and juniper. The island was some twenty odd miles distant
from Sandusky city, and just about midway between it and Malden,
which was the point -designated for the first attack by the self-styled
American patriots.
Point an Pelee Island was to be the rendezvous where the little
Sandusky army were to be joined by a detachment from Michigan,
under the bombastic Sutherland and a party of Cleveland vagabonds,
led on by the greatest vagabond of them all, the-by some means-Gen.
Van Rensselaer.
All to the westward of Cleveland, and among the islands from shore
to shore, Lake Erie was frozen over so solid that a frigate on wheels or
runners might have traversed every part of it without the least chance
of once dipping into- her proper element. It was one vast ice-plain,
firm as the land itself, and smooth as glass._
Stanly Morris did not by any means approve of the unlawful expe-
dition in which he was about to engage, neither did he possess a single
feeling in common with the wild unquiet spirits by which he was sur-
rounded; but he felt that so far as the people of Canada were con-
cerned, the cause was a just, a holy one, and if he, by the sacrifice of a
life which was now valueless, could aid them in rending asunder the
iron bonds which had at length become intolerable, he was ready and
willing to do so; and no one of the officers attached to the puerile
army of Sandusky patriots, manifested so much zeal in organizing and
drilling these embryo heroes, as the young.sailor-soldier.
It was the hour of midnight--a cold, dreary, freezing, winter's night.
For two whole days had that little army of boys from Sandusky
been encamped there on the island of Point an Pelee, impatiently wait-
ing for the promised reinforcements. that together they might march
upon and attack the British post at Maiden.

THE ".AINE    11AV   -

For two whole days, and two long, cheerless winter nights, had they
been encamped there, if camn it could be called, where, without tents,
almost without food, and most of them but scantily clad, each indi-
vidual sought such shelter as the thick-leaved cedars and the dense
growth of juniper afforded, against the sharp, biting frost; and the cold
icy north wind.
Few and scant were the camp-fires, for the green trunks of those
frozen cedars and the slight branches of juniper afforded but indiffer-
enf material for such a purpose.
And yet, under all these discouraging Circ' stances, there was no
word of complaint heard, no signs of discontent manifested, no thought
of inglorious retreat, in the heart of a single individual in all that little
army of boys.
No information had been received from those who ought long since
to have joined them, but'the most positive intelligence had been just
brought to the island camp that, with the coming dawn, they would be
attacked by a force from the British garrison at Malden, of more than
four times their own number; and yet no one spoke or thought of
flight.
As eagerly as if they were preparing for a deer-hunt'or -a shooting
. natch, and quite as unconcernedly too, they gathered about their watch-
fires, where they plied their busy tasks, casting bullets and preparing
their trusty rifles for the coming fight.
There is something that shows forth in the American character, under
circumstances like this, peculiar to themselves, and which is never to
be found in people of any other country under heaven.
Brave men are brave everywhere, and all countries produce them.
But there is a certain. dogged-(so to speak) contempt for death and
danger among Americans, that is never met with elsewhere. It is a
species of native recklessness which no other people possess.
What other soldiers in the world would have stood there as did
those Texan. heroes of the Alamo, battling for the liberty of their coun-
try against an enemy twenty' times their number, while one by one
they fell, without a thought of surrender or base retreat, until all were
slain?
Who but Americans would have mined their way from    street to
street through solid walls, while the leaden hail fell pattering thick as
rain-drops around them, and the crashing cannon balls decimated their
ranks at every step, as-did those brave fellows at Monterey ?
Who but Americans would have dared,- under the same circum-
stances, to land on the island of Cuba, as did that handful of men who
composed the last Lopez expedition?
And who but Americans would have remained there on Point au
Pelee Island that night, situated as they were, and knowing that within
ten hours- they would be attacked by a force four times their number ?
Nobody. That is my opinion.

4"

C9


To     TE EM !REE OF JS~~Ls a             THE                        LAI8LF3J; OR,7

V HA PT E 1 X V.
A WATCFgIRB PICTURE-'A ,STi4NGB CRAFT-ARRI'AL OF SThVn Alt0 ? B
BRAVo-THE BATTLE-RETRE4T---TUE BOY ERO.
IT is three hours past midnight, and every preparation has been
made for the coming fight-at least every preparation that can be
made-and all are eagerly waiting for the dawn.. Here and there, you
can see shivering groups gathering close about some almost expiring
watch-fire, one side of. their bodies scorching in the blaze, whie th9
other is pinched with the chill, icy fingers of the frost-king.
Again there are some few who, unable longer to bear up against ,the
faint, drowsy sensations caused by hunger, fatigue, and want of rest,
have crept away into some dense cover of juniper, where, half frozen,
they dream in fitful slumbers of far-off friends and home, and a thou,
sand comforts which they have, so recently enjoyed, and left for that
cold , cheerless, starving island camp..
Almost without an exception, these freezing, starving boys, were im-
patient for the-dawn and the coming battle.. They felt that anything-.
death itself-would be a welcome .relief from all that they then.en
dured.
'Tis strange that they never once thought of flight. There was a
fair, level road of solid ice,-and nothing to obstruct them in their pas-
s,age to the American shore ; and yet such a thought never once en-
tered the mind of a single individual on the island that night, so far as
I could ever learn. They had gone there to fight, and they never once
thought of running away.
I was there,, and I tell you what I know. 'many there were.on the
island that night, who, if they could have been safely at home, would
never have left it on such another expedition; but being there, they
would die sooner than exhibit one cowardly fear.
Perhaps if all could have spoken in one breath, the island camp
would have been abandoned; but no one cared to speak first.-
By the side of one of the fires, near the shore of the island, is a hand-
some young officer, engaged in earnest conversation with a slight boy,
apparently not more .than fourteen, who, as he paces back and forth
before the fire, you observe is a cripple, caused by one of his legs being
considerably shorterthan the other.
As we approach the watch-fire, we recognize the young officer as the
second in command-Major Hoadley. And the boy, too, we remember
him. His name is Charles Gillet ; his father is a farmer in, the inte-_
rior of Ohio, and a near neighbor to the young major, whom the boy
has followed to Sandusky and thence 'to the island.
He is a strange pattern for a soldier, don't you think so,  A dimi:n
utive figure, even for a boy of fourteen, with an old wolf-skin cap on
his head, and a great, long, old brown coat, with three monstrous capes
hanging about him like a Roman toga, and reaching almost to the
ground. 0, he is a droll-looking soldier, certainly ; but then that
Sandusky army was not composed of such material as that which makes
up the New York Scarf Guards.

ri

F
t
f
t

4 THE LAKE-.BRAVo.. ,

71

'4N

But, hark I the major is speaking very earnestly to the- boy.
"No, no,. Charley, I shall never see home again. Whatever the
event of to-morrow's battle may be, I have a presentiment.that I shall
fall. You know how dearly I love my sister; and now, CharleI
want you to swear to me;that if I am killed you will take a purse which
you will find in my po lrot py watch, and this ring from my finger, and.
give them to Anna, together with my lastblessing. Will you swear,
Charlet:
" I will. And here, so help me God! I will faithfully erfo  al
that you have required of me !"
He is a most grotesque figure for a soldier, that crippled bo in the
old brown coat, and uncouth wolfskin cap, as he kneels there beside the
watch-fire, and with uplifted hands and flashing eyes, swears to execute
that. mournful behest.
As the..boy continues to kneel there by the fireside, and thema'or
stands with bowed head and folded arms, in moody thought the science
is suddenly broken by a low, rushingsound, notlike the wind, nor any-
thing else to which we can compare it, bat most of anything like a fiL
being drawn quickly across the edge of broken glass, only i was tn
thousand times louder, and so mightyin volume that the y     e
nath our feet quivers with the vibratios.           ground be-
The sound comes from in among the islands, away to the southward
and westward, and at the first thought we. guess that it is the ic
breaking up. And then we know this to be impossible, for it is early
in: winter, and the, ice never breaks up atthis season ; besides there is
only a gentle breeze blowing from the westward.
Each moment the sound grows louder, till within thirty seconds it
swells into a wild, discordant, crashing hiss, louder thanthe roar of ten
Niagaras;,rahnhislodrtathrorfte
1Forth from the cover of the juniper couches spring the half frozen
sleepers, up from beside the watch-fires, and out from the dense cedar
groves starts many a wondering boy soldier, listening, half in terror, to
that strange sound, such as he has never heard before.
Another moment, and the first mystery is explained by another more
mysterious.
Away there in the southwest, towards yonder wooded island  ou
can see by the peculiar glare which is reflected back from the ice, even
on the darkest night, the dim, shadowy outlines of a spectre craft, each
moment becoming plainer and more distant, as she comes rushin on
in the direction of the watch-fires, until she at length looms up against
the blue sky, a trim, gallant-looking schooner, sailing' noerteie
Right on towards the nearest fire comes the phantom vesel wile
all stand and gaze upon her in mute fear and wonder.
Down, with a crash and a whirr, comes the ice-demon, skirting along
the shore till she is abreast of the fire, where stands the handsome
}    young major and the cripple boy, when suddenly she rounds to, her
sails are taken in, and we behold there in the light of the watch-fire, a
huge triangular fabric of strong work, with masts, spars and rigging
Sliko a schooner ; and we know that the strange looking thing which we
have just seen skimming along over the frozen surface of the lake. is an
i bat.


THE EMPRESS OFTfl1 ISLES; OR,
I it were only "daylight we 'should disenver underneath that massive
frame, three immense skates; and it is these -that we have heard making
thpt strange, rushing hiss, as they cut. the smooth surface of the ice in
theirlightning-like velocity.d
Several men step out of the novel craft on to the ice, and as they
approach the fAre, we recognize two df them as old acquaintances.-Ben
Letts the' Bravo, and Steve Marvell.
Stanly Morris leaps. down -on to the ice, and welcome them to- the
island, after which Letts-informs the officers, who have gathered about
hiii, that more than fourteen hundred troops are on their way to attack
them.
'He had left Detroit an hour before sundown, and as he passed Mal-
den, he'saw: the British just leaving the garrison.
Curses and imprecations are heaped upon the braggart Sutherland,
as Letts informs the indignant officers that not two hours since he left
that office's camp, and offered to bring one hundred and fifty men ;
but the coward would not suffer a single man to leave:; and so he had-
come down with his dozen volunteers to offer -their aid in the coming
struggle.
Day dawfed at length, and discovered to the boy warriors a long
line of British troops on the ice, and coming up at almost a run, so
eager were they for battle.
Col. Bradly and the gallant Hoadly marshaled their little army in
single file on the ice some three - hundred yards from the island, and
after calmly cautioning all not to throw away their fire, they stepped
into the ranks, and, armed eachwith his unerring rifle like the rest, they
awaited the enemy's approach."
On came the British host, confident in their numbers, with waving
banners and martial music, while their bright musket-barrels, gleaming
bayonets, and the polished brass plates of their belts; flashed back the
young sunlight upon the ice-mirror in ten thousand reflections, till their
whole front seemed lit up with a blaze of glory.
On they come-they are so near that you can almost see them wink,
almost hear their labored breathing, when suddenly the little army of
boys drop upon one knee, and for an instant only, they squint along the
levelled tube ; the next---there is a crash, quickly followed by yells,
and dying groans, and screams of mortal agony ; then a few dropping,
random shots from the British, and the whole line is thrown into wild
confusion.
Calmly, as though practising at a target, each one of those striplings,
who has just now seen for the first time in his life, a shot fired in anger
-loads, upon one knee, fires, and loads again with a rapidity almost
past belief, and with an unerring aim that is fast thinning the redtcoated
ranks, when suddenly the alarm is raised, and the word runs like wild-
fire along the patriot line, that a squadron of dragoons are on the ice,
and coning down like a whirlwind to out-flank them, and cut off their
retreat.
Their ammunition too, was almost exhausted, and the patriot com-
mander reluctantly gave the word to retire from the ice, and take
shelter on the island where the dragoons could not act.
The order was misunderstood, and a retreat commenced which almost

-  ThE-I4IU1A7;5"

f
i
3
i
i
i-
t
r
c

I

, 4

immediately became a rout, and then ensued such a scene of slaughte"
and destruction as no .pen,--or tong-can describe  Everywhere the
dragoons were cutting and slashing, and riding -down the fugitives
while the foot soldiers-went on shooting and stabbing, and nmurdering
all who fell into their hands.
Letts and Steve, together with some thirty others; gained the iear
boat, which was got under weigh ; - and well might she have' been called
an ice-fiend that morning; for under- the guidance of-the infuriated
Bravo, she was steered crashing in though theBritish ranks now here:
nowthere, overwhelmingand crushing men and horses in her terrible
course.  --
Stanly was n4 where to be seen, and when at. length the battle was
totally lost, Letts bore away with his ice-craft forSandusky city.t
When the word came to retire from the -ice, the cripple boy wa=
standing beside his commander, Major Hoadly, who, 'as ho -tned
towards the boy, received a musket-ball in the temple, and fell dead
without a word or a groan,
In an instant, Charley, faithful to his promise, was kneeling beside
him.. He had secured the watch and purse, when he caught sight of a
giant British soldier within thirty steps, running at him with leveled
bayonet. In an instant the boy caught up the major'srifle, which he
had finished loading at the moment that- he fell,.and taking deliberate
aim, he shot- the soldier through the head, after which he drew the
dead officer's ring from his finger, and amid a shower of bullets, he fled
towards the ice-boat, which he gained just as she got under weigh and
{ -   so finally escaped with only seven bullet-holes. through his old browii
coat, and one through his wolf-skin cap, so close that it grazed his
scalp..-      -
CHAPTER XVI.
NAVY ISLAND-THE PATRIOT GATHERING-TH NIGHT ATTACK-THE MUR-
DERED DURFEE--BRITISfl OUTRAGE- AND THE BRA    vow.
ALMOST in the centre of foaming Niagara, and some three miles
above the eternal cataract, is situated a long, narrow island, having a
few ordinary looking farm houses scattered along its shores, bat covered
principally with a dense growth of dwarfish trees, with here and the
a solitary old oak, towering aloft above the surrounding thickets like
some tall giant amid-a group of school-boys
This is Navy Island ; and here it was that one of the most ridiculous
farces which was enacted during the whole two years' history of Cana-
dian Rebellion, occurred.
Some seven hundred men and, boys, representing every grade of
American society but the respectable,-were- assembled under the Pur-
pose of-.--.ah!I that is a mystery.  Probably not one. of that mis-
named patriot host knew why they were there, and it is equally'
probable that very few of them cared. But each individual seemed to
know he had heretofore, all his life time, been a cypher in community,

r    {
i  1
11d


T(          THE EMPR'g:O7F      tE isjES i OR,
aid happen what wouldd- I ould not *ell be less: he might be more
.-alrnthough the prospect-gave but faint prmnise' of any such result.
The officers of this modern winter' crusade, it may be, were man of
them in the confidence of the prime movers in the affair, or partially so,'
although it is doubtful that any of them knew of any ultimate design,
other than -thy were to assemble thee on the island, and wait the
action of their eo-patriotsin Canada.
With some three or four old' and nearly unserviceable pieces of artil-
-lery, perhaps a rifle, ors a- condemned United States- musket to every
third, man, no camp equipage, very little- ammunition, less provisions, in
the midst of the rigorous frontier winter, with the snow full two feet
deep, and -the men-if-possible worse clad than even the-heroes of Point
au Pelee, it was altogether one of the maddest schemes ever thought of;
apd any, one who may chance to be thoroughly posted up in the
history of the Navy Island affair, need not be in the least surprised if
at soine future time' he should be informed that a dozen porter-house
desperadoes, led on by a rum-bloated Van Somebody, should seize upon
a- canal boat, cross the' Atlantic, blockade the English Channel, and ,
pssess themselves of the Isle of Wight, from whioh to invade Great
Britain!
Several days had gone by since the occupation of the island, during
which time the " crusaders" had been starving, freezing, wading about
in the snow, and keeping up a desultory firing from their few rusty,
inufficientrguns upon the town of Chippewa and two or three farm.
houses along the bank of the river, most of their shot, however, drop.
ping harmlessly into the river, far short of the object aimed at, when,
oie=cold, blustering afternoon, a little steamer from Buffalo landed at
the island, having on board some forty passengers, mostly men of re-'
spectability, who had chartered the boat and come down merely to have
a look at the chrysalis Napoleons of Navy Island.
It was almost sundown when-the passengers were ready to embark,
and as the river was running full of ice, making the night navigation
up stream both dificult and dangerous, it was ecided to run the
steamer over to a little wharf at Selocsher, about a mile above the falls,
oi thie American side, and there remain till morning.
Just at dark the steamer was secured to the wharf, and as several of
her passengers were anxious to return' to Buffalo that. night, they pro-
cured two teams and set out immediately.
Still there were more persons on board than could be accommodated
with berths. and so another party repaired to a hotel which was only
a few rods from the wharf. leaving on board the steamer, as nearly as
ever -could be ascertained, sixteen persons exclusive of the crew.
It was 'an hour past midnight, when the inmates of the hotel were
suddenly aroused from slumber -by the quick discharge of fire-arms,
accompanied by the screams and yells of men being shot and stabbed
to death.
''lying to the doors .and windows, and some of them out into the
street, they beheld a scene which, chilled their very hearts' blood, and
struck them with mute horror.'
There,, on board the steamer, not ten rods distant, they beheld the,
bright, red flames darting upwards in at dozen 'plaees, illuminating and-

I;

lg ting up the whole surroutding snerv   % a he     gk' whii
'here and there, on the steamer's 1e. ey~d be  ten the recontd$
nu derers of the British armay, stabmbig andem u:ootg win iuofending
and4 defeneeless';American 'citizens.
Everywhere amid the flames gleamed' t! s'a'!  form of 'the$
unman demons, as, led on by more demoniac c ecrs, they reveled  n
their bloody midnight massacre.
-One only (as far as was ever known) of all that little company
escaped to the shore: He sought to escape assassination by stealing
along in the shadow of an old warehouse, and had almost  fined the
edge of the wharf, when he was discovered, shot-don and riddled with
bullets ; but still he lived and :essayed to drag himself away upon. his
hands and knees. "Kill the Yankee rascal " shouted the valorous
English commander, and a dozen soldiers sprang forward to 'eredute
the brutal order.
In vain poor Durfee implored mercy at the hands of these internal
scarlet' butchers. They were ifed to murder--.it= ias their trade.
" Mercy ! mercy ! mer--"
lit the last cry was hushed by a dozen bayonets, already dyed crirn,.
ion with human gore, that went crushing and grating through the
victim's body.
For a moment the wretched man remained there upon his hands and
knees after the reeking steel was withdrawn, and then, with a terrific
scream, leaped high into the air, and fell upon.his back in his'last death
ogonies.
A British soldier more merciful-or it may be, more cruel-.-than
his companions, turned the butt of his musket and ended the sufferings
of the miserable victim by dashing out his brains.
If there was ever a murder; a most damnable cold-blooded assassina-
lion on earth, it was that of poor Durfee--shot, stabbed, and his braiie
beaten out by British soldiers, by command of British officers, there 'on
the American soil. That such an outrage should have been suffered to
go iznatoned for, is a foul stain. upon the bright escutcheon of iod
national shield.
Had such an outrage been perpetrated upon British ground, and
upoika British subjeet;and sanctioned by the government of those who
committed it, a hundred thousand British bayonets Would have avenged
the cold-blooded murder.
But among all the nations of the earth, our own has been the most
backward in seeking redress for individual wrongs inflicted upon hef
children.
'Tis true 'she is very particular-with regard 'to her national honor;
but it seemed to be a settled' policy with the government of the United
States, to "let the. boys take care of themselves -' if they get into 'diffi
eulty, let them get out again; if insulted, let' em'bear it ; if robbed
and plundered, keep quiet and try it again ; if mnurdered-- why, it's
not much.consequence-plenty more men in the Country.
The burning steamer 'was cast 'adrift, and .as she' was whirled along
down the seething current towards the' mighty cataract, soine five 'o'
sir human beings, mien' ho had eliid the' hurried search of tif
British murderers, could be seen flitting about amid the roaring flaniei

r
_it
t'
;
i
t
F
"


THE EMIPRESS$ O'H E ,ISLES; OR,
which now almost wholly enveloped, the deck in a fiery mantle, while
their wild, agonized screams went up to .heaven, and rang out on the
frpsty night-air loud and shrill. above the thunder tones of the falls.
With cheers and loud hurrafs, the.British butchers returned to their
boats,-and pulled for-the Canada shore, while the blazing steamer, with
heir ereaming passengers roasting to death in those raging flames, went
whirling on' down the hissing torrent fora. few inoments longer, until
1}e brink of the vast cataract was gained, when, simultaneously with,
tle last unearthly yelI of tbe doomed wretches, shot up high into the
air a Jet of flame, and then .all was silent. The ill-fated Caroline was
gone with her cargo of murdered dead andthe few who survived the
massacre, down into the abss of wild, foaming waters.
such was the fate of tie steamer Caroline, and a portion--no one
utu God will everiknow bow many-of her passengers.
Scarcely had the British boats disappeared in the gloom-scarcely
Iiad that darkness settled down upon the. scene, as the burning boat
plunged down the lgid precipice-when two horsemen came thunder-
ing along the road from the direction of Buffalo,.who flung themselves
from their panting horses, as they, drew rein near the group from Ahe
tavern, nowgathered about the'body of the murdered Durfee.
The foremost horseman, as he leaps to the ground and forces his
way through the little crowd, aud the bright glare of a lantern which
one of the ,men holds in his hand falls upon his face, you recognize him
i , afmomenlt.
It is the escaped convict-Ben Letts, the Lake Bravo.
His companion is the brave, faithful fellow, Steve Marvell.
"Poor Darfee !" exclaims the Bravo, as his eyes fell upon the ale,
distorted features of the young man; "poor Durfee ! your's has indeed
been a most .untimely fate;, blessed with .a wife. almost an angel, two
sweet blooming children, health, and a comfortable home, and all, every-
thing worth living for, and now-- Gentlemen"-her speaks, to those
about him, interrupting himself--" gentlemen, could you have seen that
inn who now lies there a corpse-could you only have seen him as I
did but yesterday, when he imprinted the last kiss upon the lips of his
lovely wife, when he held his dear children- to his fond heart for the
last tinie-ah ! could you have seen all this, your very hearts would
)ced for the bereaved ones who are now eargerly awaiting his return.
His wife is the sister of my friend here, she importuned us to hasten
hither and urge him to return by land; we procured horses and have
ridden at our best speed ; but poor Myra, all too late to avert the sad
fate of your loved husband."     ..
There is a few momcnto' pause, during which the Bravo stands gazing
alternately from the dead man to Steve, and the latter upon .the body
of his murdered brother-in-law. -
Then suddenly the Bravo grasps his friend by the arm, and together
they kneel there in the crimsoned snow, beside the stiffening corpse,
while Letts, placing, one, hand upon the pulseless heart of the dead,
raises the other towards Heave, and in a voice and tone that causes
all to tremble, he swears to wreak a most terrible vengeance upon the
commander of those British murderers.  We shall see how well he s
redeemed his oath.

C
t
CF

1 1 raE LA1CEIMRAM, _    .
ChAPERXVII,.",-
tIHE ISLAND COTTG--LOVE'sS OLTtE-THn PIRST l 'TL I QENCE-A
,BAY OrFIHOPE..

4

.BAgxonce more, to the gem of the St. Lawrence-4he magnificent
fairy islet where the first scene of our romance opens-.at Lida '
Island.
y. .Almost a year has gone by since the morning that we saw the young
sailor, whom we have since known as Stanlyl~Morris, land upon the
little island where Linda, the recluse drew her last breath, and where
her lone grave is made.
Eleven months, and it is the last of'April, 1838,
Many exciting scenes have been- enacted in Canada and along the
frontier, during the eleven months that have passed.
Our characters have all been busy, but how and where, it is of little
importance to us and the world generally to know, just now.
Will say, however, that I have heard nothing of the Hermit since
his own letter was read in the cave.- Of Stanly Norris I never have
heard a lisp since the morning of- that fight at Point au Pelee. The-
Bravo and hir friend Steve have remained quiet since we -saw -themr
early in the winter beside the murdered Durfee.. Edith Lett has been
lost ever since she escaped from the schooner last summer; and as for
the libertine Colonel and his vile associate Oliver Shephard, they are
out of the way somewhere, and were it not that I shall be obliged to use:
them,.out of the world altogether.
So you see I have managed to lose all my--no, not my-our charac-,
ters, except two: old Bill and his daughter Kate. Rather a queer
state of things, you will-say,for a writer of romance to lose all his mate-
rial before he is half through his story. - I acknowledge it is, but then
I am not to blame-.-I could'nt help it; and' were it not that one of tha
two remaining characters is the principal one--the future Emlnpreass-.
she after whom I have christened'my story-I should he sorely tempted
to loseher, and her father with the rest ; making. a losing story of it
entirely, and wind it up right here, Perhaps it would be as wellafer
all, as-to follow them along through another year, and then-kill half of'
them myself. But circumstances are imperious; many of the Bravo's
desperate acts' must be told. The villain Shephard must meet. the
reward of his many crimes ; Col. Moody of his infamous libertinism;
the mystery of Stanly Morris' birth, or rather of his parentage, must
= be explained, The veil must be-rent from the Hermit of=the  enese".
and Kate must be an Empress..- So, on the whole, I. think best to g"o n.
Well, it is, you will recollect, Spring again, a most beautiful da  i.
the last week of April, and we;are at our favorite spot, Linda's Island..
It is not what it was when -we visited it last;- in appearance, 
mean.. The trees are as green, the grass and powers, and l1, as bright
and ful of Nature's loveliness as ever ; the little lakelet is as placid,
ai  the solitary grave there under! the old willow is as lonely'as ever;
but for all that, Linda's Island is very much changed since we were
here last!


THE EMPRESS OF TE ISLESI Ot,
Near the margin of the lakelet, on the opposite side from the grave,
is a beautiful white cottage finished in .4he very best style of modern
architecture ; and then you see there is a substantial but elegant fence,
white-al rseo, lesng some two seres 'of ground already-planted wih
fruit and ornamental trees ; while a portion next the cottage is sepa-
rated from the other by a slight trellis work, and this part is beautifully
arranged as a parterre, in which we can -discover almost every variety
offowers usually found -in our northern climate, and so arranged that
they speak to you in mute but eloquent language, of a kind gardiar
auuel that-. But hark t A fernale voice, and singing, too, a simple,
toeahin ballad, which we have heard hundreds of times; but oh, hoer
sweetly it sounds,-we have never heard it sung thus before.
But look there !--there, at the open window in the eastern wing of
the cottage-that which commaidi the best view of the parterre.  .
Burns' 'Highland Mary." Exquisite little song, and most .exqui.
sitely is it warbled, in a voice so full of Nature's melody, that even the
birds whiehl fit here and there, about this sylvan home, seem nore.
joyous, inspired by those gushing notes, and warble bak their own, in
glad response.
We more "than half guess the author of' those sad -plaintive;-tones,
from a single glance at the profusion of black shining curls which we see(
falling down, and almost entirely hiding the features of the singer, as
seated at the low, open window, with her head reclining upon her had,
she pours forth her whole soul in song.
Yes, we are right ; for as she ceases to sing, she sits more erect, and
tosses back the envious rrls fromnlierifair velvet-oheek, revealing, as she
does so, the classic and most superbly beautiful creature whom we first
saw navigating the little lakelet in her fairy skiff-Kate Johnson,.our
heroine, and future " Empress of the Isles.
- You observe that deep shade of sadness which seems to have-made
its home there, on those sweet, child-like features, and 'you know that
she is'far from being happy; yet she is beautiful, quite as beautiful as
when we -first saw her.
Your attention for a moment, 'and I will tell you something of her
sorrow before we enter the cottage.
You will recollect her sister's love for 'Stanly, and her foolish
brother's treacherous act in suppressing that letter from $tenly, and
writing the reply which we read over the young man's shoulder there
at-iSanduaky.y
;Now Kate never once dreamed of these things, and week after week
abouth aftermouth,'had she grieved, sorrowed and wondered 'why Stanly:
Oid-not return,.or write at least- .Poor girl ; little did she dream-that
Stanly Moi,be'lieving 'her faithless, had sworn in his heart never to
see 'hr again'; add so she.continued to dream on and  ait-for his 'com
ingg and all thie time her beautiful cottage was beinbilt on teislne
abd,'where she spent a great part of the time during the. fine, pleasant
weher-of -the fall,-in -costructing-her  wer-bed,'planting trees; ,nt
aesanging the 'grounds,:at the same time that she superintended the'
interior fitting' up dfathescottage, in accordance with'tie erpress wish
e        t gtay  'th  ot '  "i and       '
2At length the cottage was finished, and when the cold, blusteiig

-S1HE LAE5BRAVO.  ..

}
i
1

gwiter setin; Kate would- often pass.over the ; island on ,the ice, and
spend a whole week alone in the cottage, which had been furnished
throughout by the-orders of Mt. Andrews,-and. under the supervision
Qf,Kate herself.
Thus passed- the tedious days and weeks; and all the while Kate
was-very unhappy, for at times she was almost certain that Staalywass
dead. But she was destined to be more unhappy still; for one day in
early sprwg, when the snow was gone and the first powers bea to
peep forth again, Harriet was taken alarmingly ill. Fearing that she
ras about to die, the infatuated girlcalled Kate to her bed-side,  d
revealed lher- duplicity,, her love for Sany- an  hermenswhchsh
.iad employed to bring about an estrangement between the lovers,hn fool
ishly hoping that she might one day win Stanly Morris for herself
Kate -could not withhold her forgiveness to her Penitent and perhaps
dying sister; but all-her respect and confidence nfortaonce loved sister
had now 'fled forever, and poor Kate was unhappy indeed.
Harriet, however recovered; and Kate, being no longer aprehensiv
on her sister's account, absented herself from hoe andr   ees
has remained here -almost constantly, tending her flowers, singing those
sweet songs, and watching for the return of Stanly Morris, whom she
has never once doubted and even now, ignorant as she is of his 'fate,
she knows that if he is alive, she will see him again-he will return,
and they shall yet be very happy. Such is woman's faith.e  t
Our delay has lost us the opportunity of visiting the interior of the
cottage ; for something down by the lakelet has attracted the girl's
notice; and in a moment, she bounds away, along down towards a little
gate -that opens out of the grounds on the tide nextowillow-it
shore of the lakelet.
Indistinctly.,through the leafy screen of willows, we can see the forni
of a skiff, the dim outlines of a human form, and then, ust as the 'ir
reaches the gate, a man steps forth dressed in the arof a   r
jacket; tarpaulin and all ;: and it needs but one look to assure us that
the sailor is our old acquaintance, Steve MarvelJ.
d igphert a, to vgladt.eeyou " e         mclaims the maiden, en
tedngbt her hands to Steve. E"But where 'is . .... 0, tell me,
have you seen ---,7 Stephen, why don't you answer , e S"
"I wiil, Miss Kate.-that is, so far es I can.- I haven't seen Staly
but Onesainceewe separated thers ,at the cave last.sumuer.to go in
search of. Edith .Letts. When I did see him, it was but a few minutes
on :te-init   before the battle of 'Point k 1uPelee, when he told  'e
souttbing. ahout his 2bavinig ,been almost killed on a steam er and a
lette she -bad &amp;-teked from you, in whioh you toldhi' tata.-r -.and
"Oh, no-no, Steve ! That was all a cfuel deception: a -.id o
wiit6 4altter':and nvr nh;o4t iru         cptin ,   si    o
wt d er knewof its  avig. been written till very
'Gd     ess your pure heart, Miss Kate.! I knew in second, that
yomewroteitpd I 'told &amp;tanly so, but.-he woldn'tbeliev
though 'he sid, de, didn't :blame you, or If '   oved
dondohel a?              %  .fo  fyou ,o y Anothier, yon
P     S OSire; o+ene t God and:wy own heart  nows, can:ever kno
howab l of iajy I -ie hia. I Ie not       hames&amp; to own this -to

I
I

r

r
?


THE EMPfRES 09 O     iE ILES; ORS,
'you or to the whole'dorld. Is love a thing to be ashamed of and deny
WihKate Johnson, nearer !"
"Well I don't see why you should, Miss Kate ; for I'm sure Stanly
Morris is worthy of all your love. But I've got something to tell you
about sm. About a month since I got a letter written by him in
Detroit, in which he says that he was taken prisoner at Point an Pelee,
but managed to escape before he was taken to Malden. He also says
that he shall go up into Lake Superior, where he intends to pass the
summer. Next fall, le will come here to visit his mother's grave, and
then, he-says, he shall bid farewell. to his little island forever. I didn t
believe a word ofit, Miss Kate; and I don't now-; and I tell you what
I'll do---if you'll just give me a roving commission to sail under your
flag, I'll be off after Captain Stanly to-morrow, and if I don't bring
him in here as a prize, in lei than three months, you may say Steve
marvel s a marine. This is what I've come down to tell you, and not
finding you over home, on my bringing up there, I got a skiff and pulled
over here."
.e0, thank you, Steve; but come with me over home, and stay to-
night ; I wsh to write a letter ; and to-morrow---s
"I'll beaoff for Lake Superior." And ten minutes after, two skiffs
left the island for- the Smuggler's home at: French Creek.
CHAPTER XVIII.
Tnb.DEPARTURE--SUSPENsE--THE LIBERTINE AND THE SPY-THREE MORE
OF OUR CHARACTERS:- EDITH, THE BRAVO2 AND THE HERMIT-THE CAVE
AGAIN.
ONE night only, Steve Marvell remained with the smuggler's family,
onthe follow     ing     he set out for the west, in search of
Stand on r fwit reiterated  romise to Kate that he would seek
Sta theMwarer  ad rig him back to her, or never return himself.
Then, as before, athe time with Kate wore wearily on. A month
Went b, and there came a letter from the noble -sailor, written at
Mackinw,'wherei ahe said that he had heard of Stanly at the Sault
Mare andheexpected to join him there in less than a week.
Then, after a lapse of ten days, there came a second letter. When
Steve arrived at the Sault,e Stanlywas gone. He wawdseek him there, and
hundred miles, at the copper mines. lewould seekrhimtthere
nwFiftee hdays and another letter, announcing the departure of the
wanderer with a party of hunters, for the head waters of the Missis
aipndeufour days previous to the arrival of Steve at the copper mines.
S Pi,'the  would follow him and bring hin back, even if the errant path
of theretless wanderer led him to the shores of the far-off Paeif."
Thus wrote the brave fellow from the wilds of Wisconsin; =,and
Thu nsured a long and to the ardent and devoted{ girl, painful
silence. Two whole months since the reception.of that last letter

a THERE LAKE= BRAVO.

81

a   A
a k
a
i
kf
-a}
't
w
l
- "r
Y
2a
r
4
rE

That part of the Canadian 'frontier bordering on the Detroit river,
from its near proximity to the United States, and the facilities for
crossing to be found along the American =sides, was peculiarly exposed
and had-been, during the past winter and spring; onstantly in a state
of alarm.
Col. Moody, who, it will: berecollected, was in command of 'the
prison at Malden and the senior commander on ,the Detioit frontier, as'
kept constantly on the alert, and 'found but small leisure for the exer-
cise of his libertine propensities ; but as the summer wore away and'
matters became quiet,' he found leisure to plan and execute new
schemes in his own peculiar line of viliany.
Notwithstanding two or three rather brilliant conquests which ho'
lad made in the neighborhood of Malden, he was far from being satis-
fied till he had; the unfortunate Edith once more in his power. He
lad7 heard nothing from her since her escape from Shephard; -but 'h
somehow fancied that she must be still in the vicinity of Thorald, and
determined, if husan agency could compass it, to regain possession of
her person.                      Cmas,         gi    ossino
With this view he had despatched a trusty messenger to the Niagara
district, who had his instructions to make the most diligent inquiries
fur miles i every direction fromn'the place whence she escaped.
Unfortunately Shephard, his associate in crime, had been absent in
Montreal and towns along the St. Lawrence for over three months, o'
he would have entrusted the matter altogether to-him.
One evening, near sunset, the Colonel was walking in a little garden.
of a few rods in extent, in the rear of his quarters, when he was sud-a
deny startled by some person- leaping the low board fence which sur-
rounded the garden, and the next moment the -ver man of whom he
had been thinking for the last half hour--Oliver Shephard, the gov-
emnent spy--stood, before himi.
6

more than four ? since the noble sailor left in search 'of her- beloved
busband-almost a year since he held Iher to his beating heart in a last;
fervent embrace, and swore to love her during life. Still he came not.
"He will never come !'' she would often exclaim, in her despair.
Poor Kate! her's was a nature that could love, and live on in
anguish, with, the bloom upon her cheek, and the bright sparkle in
her eye, giving 'the lie to the canker that was eating at her young
heart.
Others would' have faded away, and sunk into the grave ; but her's
was a heart of sterner, though none the less womanly material. She
loved, Stanly Morris as few women have ever loved-as few cam love-
butH  he would not let evendespair crush her.
Had she known him to beunworthy of her love, she might have dis-
carded him, and then died, perhaps ; but ' she knew hinm to be worthy
of her heart's best, holiet affections, and that' very knoledge was an
armor of proof against even suspense. And so she continued to hope;
alt iotigh hope grew faint,, and suspense was torture.
Ifis- the-month of August, -838, and for the present let us leave the
Island home, the borrowing, hoping.and almost despairing heroine, and
the wandering hero with the faithful sailor- still on his track.,


82      THE EMPa.ESS GFv T11SISLES;# on,

"Think of satan, and he is with you," exclaimed Col. Moody, sur-
prised at the unexpected appearance of the man whom he had supposed
to be several hundred miles distant.
" In that case, Col. Moody, you and I must needs keep his satanic
majesty dancing attendance upon ourselves almost constantly," replied
the lawyer, apparently somewhat nettled at the officer's remark.
"It was only a very common saying that I made use of, my friend-
nothing personal, I assure you," said Col. Moody, advancing a step and
' rasping Shephard'is hand, which he shook as though he was delighted
to see him ; and no doubt he was.
"I have been wishing you here these three weeks past," continued
the Colonel, "and for the past twenty-four hours I have been thinking
of you'nearly every moment."   I
" Something you wish me to do 7" inquired the lawyer, laconically.
"Yes, a service which I would rather entrust to you than any other
person."                                 -       /
" I will hear it, and then, if it be possible and fairl   paid for,.I will
perform it. But first,.Col. Moody, I have a piece of information to
communicate, in which, if I mistake not, you feel interested."
" What is it P' inquired the officer, eagerly, "has that escaped con-
vict--"              -.
" I know nothing about him," said Shephard, quickly interrupting
the Colone. " It is more than fourmonths since I heard from Ben.
Letts. Its }s of his sister, Edith,. that- --.--"
"What!" broke in the impatient libertine, " have you seen her ? can
you-   "
." Fair and softly, Col. Moody. , One question at si time. But it is
better, perhaps, that I tell my story without any questions at all."  '
" Well, go on, I will not interrupt you again," said the 1British
officer, assuming an air of calmness which be was very far from feeling.
" Very well, theu," commenced Shephard; "a few days since I was
passing along the road leading from St. Catharines to Chippeway, when,
about, fiva miles from the latter place, I observed a female in a little
rustic garden near a comfortable-looking farmhouse, whom I r ognized
in s moment as Edith Letts. She was'busily engaged with some rose-
bushes, and did not observe me.; and not deeming it prudent to make
myself known, I drove, on to the next house, only a few rods distant,
where, as it happened to be a kind of an inn, I had an excellent excuse-
for stopping, under the pretence of procuring breakfast for myself and
refreshment ,for my horses.
" From the landlady, who was a real gossip, I soon learned that her
neighbor, an honest, kind-hearted old Scotchman, had found the girl,
carly one morning, as he was returning home from Thorald. All they
knew of her was that she was very beautiful--that her name was Edith,
and that she was not altogether ' right in her head,' as the woman ex-
pressed it. But everybody loved her, and the old farmer, as well as
his. wife, had learned to consider her as their own child. -
"Having obtained the information I sought, I continued my journey;
and now, perhaps, if you still wish to--"
" I do !" exclaimed Col. Moody, his impatience getting the better of
his discretion. "I understand you, Shephard. You would say that

E

I

if I still wish to get Edith Letts into my power, you can assist me. I
tes- you I do. It is, and has been, the first wish ofmy heart ever
since I have had leisure to think.  My passion for that girl is ten
times more fierce than ever, and 0!1 how often I have wished that you
were here, that Imight have your aid..
- My aid is ever at your service when it is required and paid for,'
Col. Moody ; but before we enter into any new arrangement, it will be
quite proper to adjust a small matter which has remained unsettled
longer than I usually permit my accounts to run."
" What do you mean, sir ?" inquiired the Colonel, in astonishment.
"Only this, Colonel. Last summer you' employed me to escort Miss
Letts from Genesee river to this place, and----"
You failed to do so by permitting her to escape ; and viow whatdo
you-expect ?"
"IThat yea will pay me
"FPor what ?"
' For the failure, if you will, Col. Moody. I paid out more than a
hundred pounds to the captain of the schooner and his crew; besides
my own expenses."
" And this you expect to refund?"
"Ay, and the moderate sum of one thousand pounds with it."
-"Never i"
" Very well, Colonel, then you'will dispense with my services in the
matter of bringing the girl hither."
"Be it so, then, Oliver Sbhephard. Luckily, your services are not
indispensable, for, permit me to inform you, I have already a trusty
agent employed on the very mission in question; and, with the in-
formation which you have just :imparted to me, and which I shall
immediately transmit to him, it will be strange indeed if he does not
sueeed in securing the prize without any aid from you."
"Most ably argued Colonel," replied the lawyer, with a sardonic
smile; "but perhaps a glance at these documents, of which you have
already had from me very fair copies, will convince you that it is for
your interest to pay the very trifling demand. You see these are the
gnuie articles, sir-seals, signatures, and all. You would doubtless
have discovered your mistake at the time you received the copies, had
you not been so prompt in destroying them."
"For several moments the Colonel stood there, with quivering lip
and flashing eye, and cheeks as pale as death, speechless with rage,
fear, and astonishment ; but at length, partially mastering his emotion;
he replied-
" Oliver She hard, I will submit no longer to your infamous extor-
tions. Go publish those papers to the world; one of them, or the
event it certifies, is. no secret in Canada, and the other none in Eng-
land ; then do your worst-I defy' you. Better suffer a 'trifle from
public opinion than buy your silent and friendship at the price you
set Upon it."
Nevertheless, you will purchase these commissions, and at my price,
too."
" No, by Heaven   I will not,"
" Colonel Moody, have you ever reflected upon the subject of death I

82

H ]k tAIT flfAV&amp;,

I


TIE E1UPlL.E$SS QIF TU,.SL E3 01,

p1k

I-

- r r T n LAK E ' BtAVO."

86

Now, as a soldier, you would doubtless prefer ;to die as a hero, ,uppQ the
:fielddof glory;; but have you ever happened to remember what a dis-
grace it would be to your fauiily, and how very unpleasant to yourself,
to he strangled by. the public hapgman ?"
"In'the fiend's name, what mean-you?" gasped the trembling officer,
while his knees smote against each other-his hands clenched convul-
ively, tillthe nails dug into the palms, and his eyes seemed bursting
from their sockets.
" And in the fiend's name I answer you, sir Colonel," replied the
sniooth-faced, imperturbable lawyer?
" Some eighteen months since a young lady in Kingston, named
Effie Seward, (at the mention of that name the Colonel started as
though bitten by an adder ; but. the lawyer went on,) of respectable
connexions, was found one morning floating.in the bay near the King's
bridge. The coroner's jury rendered a verdict of accidental drown-
ing ; but there were two persons who stood in the dark shadow of
the bridge one, night,-andsaw1a British officer plunge a female form
down into the water,w ho were not sworn at that inquest. Don't you
think, Colonel, that their testimony would have placed the affair in
rather a different light, and a certain gallant officer in the Royal Rifles
in a somewhat unpleasant position ?"
If he had expected an answer to these startling questions, he had it
iJ tlge distorted. features and. trembling frame.of his companion.
l4or five long minutes, the agony of the guilty Colonel -*as most
lqrrible ; his face was pale as that of a corpse, the perspiration poured
down from every part of his body, in cold clammy streams ; . foam,
streaked with blood, oozed out at the corners of his; mouth, and his
eyes, wild and;bloodshot, rolled from side to side in mad, awful con-
fusion.
At length, after many ineffectual efforts to articulate, he gasped, in a
hoarse whisper-
"Man-or devil from the infernal regions--whatever you are, I
accede to your terms"
"'Tis well that you do," replied the lawyer, very calmly. And now,
Col; Moody, I make you a present of these papers ; hereafter the other
argument will be sufficient for my purpose ;" and Oliver Shephard
reached the marriage certificates towards the Colonel, who grasped at
them nervously, but, his palsied fingers refused their office, and the
papers fell to the ground.
" I will leave you now, Colonel, as you seem to be somewhat agitated,
but I will call early to-morrow morning, when we will settle this little
matter ; and this time, I pledge you my word of honor, that if I fail, I
will, not seek remuneration from you. But good night, Col. Moody ,"
and without waiting for a reply, Shephard turned on his heel and
retraced his steps to the- fence, over which he leaped; and as he bent
ahi steps toward a hotel a few blocks distant, helaughed in his throat
with one of those dry, cough-like sounds, such as are only uttered by
villains and prowling hyenas.-
" Ech-ech-che !" he ejaculated. "That was a capital hit. The fool!
to commit himself thus. I had always suspected him of the murder ;
,but then suspicion is not eertainty. .wo, wtnesses---eoly! ebe  I was

II

A4d

not within twenty miles;of the bridge any time during" the week thy:-
the murder must have been committed.-,--Hoiwever, 6  is guilty of
the crime, anid believes that I know it. That is suffieient and hene-
forth he is mine to use 'as I will;" and- the lawyer terminated this
soliloquy as he gained the steps of the hotel. For more than twenty
minutes after Shephard left the garden, the colonel stood there irresc-
lte,'his thoughts in a wild, confused chaos. One thing, however, was
}    perfectly clear in his mind, and that was. that Shephard knew him to
be a murderer ; and when Col. Moody at length left the garden, it was
with the resolve that when Oliver Shephard had fulfilled the mission
on which he was.to start in the morning, he should die. Such a purpose
had once or twice entered his -heart - before, but now that his fortune
good name, his very life, was in the keeping of a wretch more heart-
less than himself, one only remedy remained, and that was death.
Death to the lawyer-spy.
On the very same day that this scene occurred, but earlier in-the
afternoon, another-of a very different character was being enacted on
the Niagara frontier.
Edith Letts, whom we have lost sight of for so very long a time, was
engaged in twining some woodbines, which she had planted under the
windows of the old farmhouse, about the little frame-work that she
had just constructed for their support. Nearly an hour she had been
thus employed, when her attention was arrested by the sudden shutting
of the gate which opened into the'yard; and looking up from her task
she observed a tall, well-dressed man coming along up the little graveled
walk towards the house.
One moment she gazed upon the stranger in wonder, and the next,
she bounded away down the path to meet him; and as she flung her-
self into his open arms, she looked up into his face, exclaiming-.
" Oh ! joy I joy ! My father ! my own dear father ; you have come
at last for your poor Edith ! 0, you will take me home again, won't
you, father ?"
"I will, my child," replied the stranger, bending his lips downward,
and imprinting a kiss upon Edith's forehead, as she lay there so happy,
so childlike in his arms.
You would never have guessed that the noble-looking stranger there
in that fashionable suit of black, and the dark flowing locks slightly
curling about the temples, and glossing in their texture as those of boy-
hood, could have been the strange, uncouth being whom we once knew
there on the Genesee, as the River Hermit.
And yet such is the fact. His changed appearance might well hate
deceived us-; but all his disguise was not proof against the quick per-
ception of the maniac maiden's love.
Edith's first joyous ery brought the kind-hearted old farmer to the
door, where he beheld with surprise "his child," as he always called
her, in the arms of a stranger ;bat Edith, after a few moments, ran up
to him, crying out in infantile joy-
"Oh! joy ! my own dear father has come 1"
The Hermit (for so we must call him, having no other name) entered
the house at the invitation of the- farmer, and in the explanation that
ensued, he did not tell them that Edith was not his daughter ; but he


I
I
.".
!'"i
'+t  : -
F      " ' "
'
'L
I
i
It
EGEI
r  !!!!
'1

THEg LAAKJ ]RAVO.

87 "

THE EMPRESS OF THES ISLES: Olt
called her his child, and she called him father; and so they believed.
that the maiden had indeed found a parent.
Preparations were immediately -commened for. th  parer te
Hermit placed a purge heavy with gold upon the table, as a reward to
the kind-hearted farmer and his wife, for all their care of the poor
wanderer, and ere another half hour had gone by, Edith was seated in,
a :carriage- which was driven. swiftly away over a road that led along
the Niagara River about two miles below the town of Qiieeuston.
beautiful little craft, which we know at once to be the yacht of
Ben Letts, is moored alongside the bank ; and as the carriage which
contains the Hermit and Edith stops only a few rods from the schooner,
a man leaps to the shore-rubhes up to the carriage-there is two quick
exclamations-" My brother !"-" Edith, my sister !"-and the Lake
Bravo folds his long lost maniac sister to his heart.     hoar
Five minutes more and the yacht is under weigh, and twenty
afterwards, she was moored to the old wharf at Handford's, while Edith,
the Bravo, and the Hermit were occupying the grotto.
- CHAPTER XIX.
STEVE MAlRVELL' SUCCESS-HOMEWARD BOUND--A VISIT TO THLE CAVE--
THE SECOND CRUSADE-A SOLEMN PLEDGE-TE HOME OF THE SMUG-
GLER.
A ATr of some fifteen rough-looking men were seated around at
great roaring fire, which sent its broad tongues of cheerful flame far up
the wide-throated, old-fashio~ned chimney of a huge log structure, situ-
ated at the edge of a wild prairie, some twenty miles west of Chicago.
It was one of those "log taverns" so common a few years ago all
over the great west, but which are fast fading away before- the magic
wand of improvement, giving place to more slightly modern hotels of
intensely red bricks, so flame-colored that the very sight of them is
almost suficient to throw off a violent ague chill, or set a well, maninto
a fever; while another crop sprung up of long, narrow, two-story frame
buildings, so very white that a single glance at one of them, somehow
makes one feel chilly even in the summer-time, and threatens to freeze
him in the winter.
One look about the- interior of this prairie inn, and you would have
been satisfied that if there was little show of elegance or refinement,
there was ample promise of comfort..
There were-no halls and stair-ways, and spare rooms, but like the
generality of dwellings on the western frontier, the whole vast interi
of that log edifice was one single room. warmed and lighted by a Single
fire, which, like the apartment, was constructed on a grand scale.
Here and there, along the "log walls," were ranged, dlikedberthsa a
hospital ward, substantial beds, while in the centre of the-room stood
a' rough  iae table, spread with a coarse bat, clean cloth of domestic
fabric,     i(nt 4"g roami "," as aovelista .have, it) literally covered-

.*N

loaded with smokingviands, all in perfect keeping with the times, the
-It was the evening of one of the first days of November, 1838, and a
wilder, more boisterous night was scarce ever known on the prairies or
in the " oak openings" of the west. Rain, hail, and sleet, pelted against
the window panes, while the wind howled and screamed as if in envious
wrath at the comfort of those within, so snugly sheltered from its fury.
The party about the fire were hunters, on their return from a sum.
fer tour in the far western wilds, about the head waters of the Mis.-
There Was one of the number-a very young man, scarcely more than
a boy in years-who sat a little apart from his compreanions taking
part in the conversation, and most of the time with his elbows resting
on his knees and his face buried in his hands. There was an air of
settled melancholy on his features that was almost painful to look a
and it seemed as if he never could have smiled, he was so sad.
I am not very fond of mystery, and so I will tell you that the b
misanthrope there by the fire among those rough-lookingon
other than our hero,.-Stanly Morris.
Supper was announced, and the party of hunters was preparing to
gather around the board, when their movements were arrested by a
loud hail outside, that rang out above the wild elemental war like the
hoarse roar of some old' triton borne on the midnight gale from a ship
near by. in the gloom to windward.
"House a-h-o-y- I" and the next moment-there was a tatoo beat on the
door, apparently with the foot and fist, accompanied with the lusty
shouts of-" Come, bear a hand inside there. Heave ahead, land.
lord."
Some five or six of the hunters sprang to the door, and the foremost
among the number -was Stanly Morris who had already recognized the
voiceof his sailor friend, Steve Marvell, as doubtless the reade has done
at the -first shout.
'TLhe heavy fastenings of the door were drawn aside-ngit was flung open,
and in among the astonished group like a rocket, plunged a being, but
so strange a lookig one, that if they had not just heard his voice, not
one of the party would have ever suspected him of being human.
Milton, in all the fertility of his imagination, never created so hideous
a looking monster in all his army of devils.
It was Steve though, beyond a doubt; for as soon as he was fairly
inside and the door closed, he sung out-y
"Here you are ! bung up and bilge free-all square by the lifts and
braces," 1'nd then he- made a motion as if to disrobe; but before he
doff so, let us take a look 4t him. We never shall see such another
speeninen of the genus homo;
His outside garment was the skin of a black cow, wrn like a cloak
with the part that covered the head of the animal covering the head
of the sailor, with the horns on and 'canted forward at just about the
snipe angle as Angelo's devil's antlers.
neerneatithis cow-skin hood he wore, in plae of' a sou'wester, a
small-sized straw bee-hive, and about his body was bound at leasttwo
good-sized bundles of wheat straw, the butts coining quite' up to his ,

*0


88

TESL EMP FJSS OF. TE II ibRS ;01,

ar s, and the top reaching to his feeat, secured at the bottom bya stout,
twisted band of the same material, so that when he threw off his cow-
skin, he resembled more-a locomotive straw-stack than anything human.
After a few moments, however, Steve came out of his straw envelop,.
bee-hive and all, and stood there among the wondering hunters in the
full costume of a Sioux war chief.
Not a, single word did he utter during thetiehahewsd-
engaging himself from his straw and raw-hide habiliments; but now he
seized Stanly by both hands, and after .nearly dislocatingg both, his
shoulders with the shaking he gave them, he began the history of.his
cruise; but happening to cast his eyes towards the table, he suddenly
checked himself and said-,.
"I say, shipmates, it strikes me I'man keepeinufromon yur grub
"    asimts'i       tie     eImkeigyufo             orguNow, don't wait for me : gather round, and I'll come in among ye, spin-
ning my yarn as I eat, for I'm as hungry as a shovel-nosed shark after
a month's short allowance."
As arbitrary circumstances hurries us foward to other matters of a
more general interest, we will only stay long enough to hear the closing
paragraph of Steve's adventurous cruise.
" Sometimes;' he observed, looking across the table to Stanly;
'sometimes I would get almost within hail of you, and then all at once
ou'a set to, gallant sails and out stun'sails, and off you'd go, leaving
me hull down astern. I stood on to west'ard until I got into shoal
water among the Sioux, where I was obliged to bend this suit of Indian
toggery in the place of my old fit, which was getting like a blubber
hunter's topsail after a three years' cruise. I fell in with a hunter,
crafteu at pst. Peter's, who told me that you'd tacked ship and stood
back the eastward, and so I cracked on all sail in chase again,
baking very good weather of it the whole passage, until about an hour
a,  vhenrthis galeo'wind caught me all aback, and I've been backing
and filling about here, ever since the squall had struck me, in search of
a harbor. About half an hour ago, when I was almost froze, I ran
afoul of a little yard, fenced in out here on the prairie, where I found
that cow-jacket, the old straw tarpaulin which I bent, and then just as
I had shingled myself from a straw-stack, I made a light bearing about
N. E., dead to lee'ard, and so ye see I up helm and run down for it,
scudd ingsquare before the wind, and under a whole cow-hide and close-
reefed bee-hive; and here I am, shipmates, overhauled the chase at
last, in a snug harbor for the night, all square by the lifts and braces."
After supper, Stanly Morris and his sailor friend drew their seats a
little apart from the others, where, for more than an hour, Stanly sat
and listened to Steve's account of all that had transpired during' his
absence; and as the warmhearted sailor pictured the scene as he be-
held it, of the "Island home," the beautiful cottage, and the faithful
but-almost despairing girl, watching there like the gentle Medora for
her Conrad, Stanly Morris-'was once more' very ,nearly happy. He
knewthatKate was true to him and to her lighted word, and for the
rest he would challenge fate' itself.h
art sundown, on the day after this scene occurred at the log inn, the
part of hunters arrived at Chicago just in time to embark in the last
steamer of the season for buffalo.

"a
If

I1

THE = JA1C BRAVO.

All along the frontier oni the American side, bands of "sympathisers"
were gathering at various points, and preparing .for another winter
campaign. ButStanly and Steve steadily refused to.have anything to
do with the movement, while nearly all of their companions and fellow
voyagers left the steamer and joined the patriot standard, under which
the majority of them had served at Point atx Pelee.
Arrived at Buffalo, -the , two friends proceeded directly to Lewiston,
where they embarked in the lake steamer bound for Ogdensburgh.
When the steamer arrived at her wharf at Carthage, only about a
Saboe the Hermit's cave, the leftrerand took their way towards
the old landing, with the intention of returning and going on in the
boat in case they should not find any one at the cave.
This intention was abandoned, however; for they soon discovered a
person whom one glance assured them was Ben Letts, the Bravo.
Stanly and Steve bounded away down the steep hill side--there was
a glad, warmhearted greeting, a welcome from the Bravo, a laborious
passage upth winding pathway, and the two returned wanderers were
seated there in the inner cave with Ben Letts and the beautiful Edith
but the Hermit was not there.
After an hour spent by Letts in relating a hundred incidents that
occurred during their absence, he informed them that the Hermit had
been gone more than a week on a tour which he intended to make
along the frontier between Sackett's Harbor and Ogdensburgh, for
purpose of conferring with several of the patriot leaders, and assist-
igto organize a force which was to assemble at Ogdensburgh, under
le l irge, preparatory to the invasion of Canada. He had sent his
hife schooner to convey to Sackett's Harbor the Hermit and several of
his friends, among whom was a gallant Polish exile named Van Sholtz
who had recently been appointed a colonel in the patriot army.
He was hourly expecting her return, when he intended to embark
with his sister and some thirty friends to the patriot cause, who had
assembled at the old warehouse down at the wharf, and proceed at once
to Ogdensburgh; and he invited his two friends to join the expedition.
He would, he informed Stanly, touch at French Creek on his way
down the river, and leave Edith with Kate-take on board a few friends
who bad promised to meet him there, and then hurry on to join the
army of the second Canadian crusade, at Ogdensburgh.
It is almost an invariable rule with story-tellers, to paint their he-
roes and heroines as perfect models of perfection. I must deviate from
the popular, beaten track, and show ours just as they are---a lovely girl,
pure in her nature, constant in her worship to her heart's idol, but pos
sessing much of that stern, reckless defiance of all conventional rules
which has for- so many years characterized her father's career. Kate
Johnson was a glorious creature, but not quite an angel ; and Stanl
a brave, noble-hearted young man, frank in his nature and trusting, in' his
Confidence. A few of the better feelings of his generous heart had be
pervertedby the cruel injustice that he had suffered at te han
Canadian tyranny; but all the nobler attributes of our nature had
found a home in his breast. And yet he was not at all perfect. His
impulsive nature prompted him to make the enemies of his friends his
own; and as he reflected upon the foul wrongs of his friend, his enmity


1
1
;
,
II
pl
ii
1
J,
r   "
'
f
i
'
; ~r

01'

towards those who had inflicted those wrongs grew into hate, and hate
whispered vengeance in his ear, till his heart responded to the call and
his band was ready to grasp the sword, and lead the way where any
dared to follow, in the second Canadian crusade.
Under the oath usually administered at, that period to the Canadian
"hunters," by the most solemn pledges, Stanly Morris, there in the solid
tude of the cave, bound himself to the fortunes of a cause if not unjust,
at least illegal. In this he was doubtless wrong, but his apology I
have already written; I know no other, and if this be insufficient; he
must suffer.
Steve Marvell took the oath, and gave his pledge, partly because
Stanly had done so, and partly because his old friend, "Capt. Ben,"
was engaged in the new revolutionary movement, but mainly for the
love he bore to the wronged Edith, in whose behalf he determined to
strike one good blow for vengeance, and he prayed that that blow
might fall upon the heartless libertine, Col. Henry Moody.
Three days went by, during which time the subject of the contem-
plated invasion was frequently discussed by the three friends at the
cave, and nightly among some fifty persons who had also embarked in
the crusade,,and who had taken up their temporary residence in the
old dilapidated buildings near the wharf. The morning of the fourth
day came, and Steve, as he emerged from the cave, discovered the yacht
moored at the landing, where she had arrived during the night.
The intelligence was soon communicated to those within the cave,
and immediate preparations were made for embarking.
In less than two hours, all were on board-the three friends, Edith,
the fifty patriots from the old buildings, and the yacht was again under
weigh, standing down the river and bound for the St. Lawrence.
At twelve o'clock on the day after she left Handford's landing, the
little yacht rounded to, alongside one of the wharves in the village of
Clayton, where she was welcomed with three hearty cheers from the
people on the shores.
Stanly, accompanied by his two friends and Edith, left the schooner
and proceeded at once to the home of the Smuggler, where they were
met by Old Bill himself, who fairly shouted with delight, as he bade
them welcome, and invited them to enter.
The meeting between the lovers, after so long a separation--....
Reader, please imagine it, as you have done once before, thereby leav-
ing me room in this chapters to tell you that Edith Letts loved her,
new sister Kate from the first moment that she saw her ; Kate also
loved her, and determined to win her back-back to reason and happi-
ness.
Another thing I have to tell you, which, strange as it may appear, is
nevertheless true.
When Kate learned that Stanly had bound himself to the crusade,
instead of seeking to keep him back, she urged him on-she would
have loved him less had he forfeited his oath for her; and so he sailed
again that night for Ogdensburgh.

THE LAKE BRAVO.

-               CHAPTER      XX.
THE INVASION-THE SIEGE-A DASTARD GENERAL-THE WIND-MILL FOR-
TRESS--THE BoY HERO AGAIN--DESPERATION OP THE INVADERS--A
FATAL EXPEDIENT.
ANOTHER winter picture. A patriot camp, more exposed, more com-
fortless than that of Point au Pelee or Navy Island.
On the American side of the River St. Lawrence, near Ogdensburg,
were assembled some twelve hundred men and boys for the invasion of
Canada. For a whole month they had' been gathering from the frontier
villages and towns along the St. Lawrence and Lake Ontario.
These twelve hundred men and boys, with less than a week's pro-
visions-almost hemmed in by a cordon of United States troops who
were marching thither to disperse them-these made up the second and
last crusading army of American sympathisers.
With this rabble host, it was determined to invade Canada, then
swarming with twenty-six thousand of the choicest troops in the British
army, and full one half of their inhabitants loyal to the crown.
At a council of war held during the fore part of the night, it had
been determined to attack the town and garrison of Prescott, on the
opposite side of the river, here more than a mile in width.
The British garrison consisted of only about six- hundred men, and
it was voted that a detachment of three hundred patriots should cross
the river at day-light, land at a point near some old wind-mills a.
mile below the town, and when the British garrison sallied out to
attack them, they were. to fall back ; thus drawing the enemy from
his entrenchments, and then the main body of the patriot army were
to cross over, cut off their retreat,.and bring them between two fires.
The majority of the officers who voted for this fool-hardy project,
counted confidently upon an easy victory. Very few of them were
aware that those soldiers were veterans of fifty battle fields-the famous
15th, who had -served in Egypt through the whole Peninsular war,
under the "Iron Duke," and whose proudest boast was, that they had
never turned their backs to an enemy.
Some few there were, however, who knew and remembered all this ;
and they voted against the mad adventure ; but when their council was
overruled, and the invasion was determined upon, they stepped forth,
the very first volunteers to lead the forlorn hope.
First among these gallant fellows, was the brave Polish exile, who
had battled for the liberty of his native land, till the last spark of
freedom was quenched by Russian bayonets; and then he sought our
shores. He was a true patriot, and his noble qualities will be remem-
bered when the memory of the Canadian tyrants who caused his death
shall have sunk into oblivion in the dim vista of the past. The Polish
exile, Col. Van Sholtz, was the first to volunteer, and was appointed as
the commander of the expedition.
Then cane forward the giant old Smuggler-ohief, the Lake Pirate,
followed by the Hermit, of the Genesee, and Ben Letts, the Bravo, and
Stanly Morris and Steve Marvell, each and all of whom knew the dan-

THE EMPRESS OF THE ISLES; OR,

90


9k

THE EMPRESS 'OF THE ISLES; OR,

ger and madness of the proposed plan of attack. They had argued and
voted against it, but now that it was decided, they were the first to step
forward and brave the danger.
Desperate as the undertaking was, there was no lack of volunteers,
and long before midnight, everything was arranged, and three hundred
men from among three times that number, who came.forward eager to
cross the river, had been selected, and once more all was still in the
patriot camp.
Morning came and the keen, biting north wind came sweeping down
over the distant snow-clad hills, and -across the river, piercing to the
very vitals of that starving, ill-clothed patriot host.
The first pale rays of the- morning sun shone--upon three hundred
invaders, marshaled there on the Canadian shore, each grasping his
trusty rifle, and wading through snow drifts more than two feet deep,
towards their red-coated enemies, who were defiling by platoons from
the gates of the fortress, to meet them.
Two small steamers and a schooner, in which they had crossed the
river, had been sent back for the remainder of the army, and so they
must fight till reinforcements arrived,-for they could not retreat.
On came the British, with a force one thousand strong, outnumber-
ing the little army of boys more than three to one ; besides, the English
troops were dragging with them five or six pieces of light artillery, with
which they could easily decimate the patriot ranks, while they them-
selves remained unharmed, beyond the range of ordinary rifle shot.
Van Sholtz comprehended the enemy's advantage, and gave orders
to fall back and occupy the two old wind-mills, which he had no doubt
they might be able to hold against the whole British force, till the main
body of the patriots could cross to' his assistance.
Slowly and in complete array the three hundred invaders took pos-
session of the two old structures, and were soon completely surrounded
by that British host.
It was but a dreary prospect for that little army of patriots, hemmed
in as they were by an enemy possessing a park of artillery, with which
they had already. opened a fire on the mills. Still they faltered not;
but, sheltered behind the solid walls, picked off their red-coat foes at
long shot, with their unerring rifles.
Two, three hours, went by and many an anxious glande was cast
towards the American shore, where lay the two steamers and the little
schooner which they had- sent back, and not a single movement aboard
the vessels, or in the camp, gave indication of embarking for the rescue.
Afterwards, the patriot commander pleaded as his excuse. that he
had been forbidden to cross the river by the United States Marshal;
but this most- sapient commander-in-chief, Major Gen.' Birge, of the
patriot army, lay in his tent all that day, totally insensible of his duty,
obligation or dignity, inasmuch as--- Captain Saunders, one of his
aids, said that he had been second to the General in eight personal
encounters that morning before sunrisq, and that each time his adver-
sarie's shot had taken effect in the General's neck.
The British commander, growing impatient of delay, at last gave
orders to storm the wind-mills, and from every side they rushed for-
ward to the assault.-

THE.LAKE BRAVO.           "9
,3ut -with a cool, determined bravery that would have graced a better
cause, the boy heroes of the wind-mills rallied to every. window and
opening in those old stone fabrics; and as, the foes came within' point
blank range of their rifles, they dropped, them so fast that it seemed
every leaden messenger went right- home to its mark. For, a few mo-
menta,-they struggled on against that terrible 'whirlwind of death, and
then  broke their ranks and fled before the pelting storm  of rifle
bullets.'
Again they rallied, and again were defeated and driven back.
And thus, as the tedious hours wore away, the fight went on. Here,
one of the finest regiments in the whole British army, and backed by
more- than four hundred colonial militia, with a park of artillery,
maintaining that obstinate fight, against a mere handful of boys,. not
one-third their own strength in point of numbers, but defended by the
massive walls of those old mills, and each armed with one of those terri-
ble American rifles that sent its whizzing death-messenger right home
to the brain or heart of the foe, at which it was aimed.
. All throughout the day the fire had beenkept up from theold mills,
by these expert marksmen, who loaded their rifles in security behind
the thick walls, and then presenting themselves only for an instant at
thewindows, they would fire, and fall back under cover of the walls
again so quick, that they always eluded the more tardy aim of the
British soldiers.
But among that poi ion of the little garrison stationed on the fourth
floor, there was one who disdained to seek the shelter of the thick walls
as a -protection against the British bullets. All'day long, ever since
the fight commenced, he had stood there exposed in the open window,
loading and deliberately firing his heavy rifle, and almost every shot
bringing down his scarlet-coated target, while all the time the bullets
from the English muskets were whizzing past, and pattering about him
on the old wall thick as hail. He was but a boy in years, of slight
form, delicate features, and soft, fair hair; but the quick flashes of his
clear blue eyes, as he marked the effect of his rapid shots, told of a lion
heart.
This boy hero is the same that kneeled there beside the midnight
watch-fire, swearing to perform the last behest of tfie gallant Hoadly,
who fell at Point au Pelee-Charles Gillet, the same who so deliber-
ately shot down the British soldier there on the ice, and afterwards
escaped in the Bravo's ice-boat.
Five times the attack .was renewed, and each time the British troops
were driven back in wild confusion by the death-dealing rifles of the
invaders. All around the grim old mills, within the reach of those
heavy American rifles, the snow was dyed with human gore, and nore
than two hundred red-coated soldiers lay dead, freezing in the cold,
wintry air, while within the old mills not more than twenty persons had
fallen, and these had met their death by reckless exposure in the open
windows.
But there were enemies within the walls of those old mills which
were fast driving these indomitable spirits to desperation. These were
hunger; thirst, and intense cold. Many had flung themselves down in
sullen despair, praying for death to end their tortures, while others

v


THE EMPRES OF PTHE ISLES; OR,
flung away their rides, and recklessly exposed themselves in the 'Open
Windows as targets for British muskets. Many talked of rushing forth,
hurling g themselves upon the besieging force, and seeking death upon
the points of their bayonets, or at the muzzles of their cannon ; but no
one spoke o thought of surrender, or coward flight.
Many were the clenched fists shaken from the-windows of those old
wind-mills in the direction of the patriot camp on the American sido,
and many were the bitter curses heaped upon the miserable inebriate
general, who having it in his power to relieve them, had remained there
inactive, without one single effort to avert the certain ruin which men-
aced them.
The generous Van Sholtz in the one, and Letts, Stanly Morris, and
the iron-hearted old smuggler in the other of the wind-mill fortresses,
cheered and encouraged, and did all that brave men could do, to keep
up the spirits of their companions; but arguments of patience are of
little avail to men rendered frantic by cold, hunger and thirst; and
each moment, as their situation became more desperate, they became
more reckless of life, and showed less respect for the opinions of those
whom, under other circumstances, they would have followed to the
death.
tt was almost sundown, and now each moment some perishing, frost-
bitten wretci sunk down, gibbering out a half intelligible curse.upon
those who had led him thither, and died perhaps with a blasphemy
gurgling in his throat,
"Wall up the windows and keep out the cold t" was shouted by spme
person in the larger of the two mills; and in an instant, above, below,
on every floor, and back from the other mill, which was near at hand,
came the mad cry of-..-" Wall up the windows i"
In, spite of' every remonstrance on the part of Van Sholtz, Johnson,
Letts, and Stanly, nothing was now heard but-" Wall up the windows
and shut out the cold !"
Neither of the buildings had ever been completed, and a huge pile
of stones bad been left on the ground within the mills; and with this
material the freezing, starving wretches began to wall, up the open
windows.
The British cannon and musketry, which bad all day been playing
on the mills, suddenly became silent. But when at last the little gar-
rison were beginning to congratulate each other on their success in
fencing out the wind, the cannonade commenced more furiously than
ever, hurling the loose stones from the windows down upon the heads
of those within, and crushing to death, at a single fire, more than had
been slain throughout the whole day.

1

THE LAKE BRAVO.

CHAPTER XXI,
A REVELATION--THE SIGNAL GUN-THE SORTIE-THE SMUGGLER'S ARTI-
FICE--MODERN BRITISH HUMANITY-THE COMMANDER OF THE YACHT--
TILE PRISONERS.
AT the patriot camp, near Ogdensburgh, on the night before the
fatal expedition was planned, Stanly Morris had for the first time niet
the mysterious man whom we have thus far known as the Hermit.
Stanly had been at the camp for.nearly a month, but the Hermit
had been absent on business connected with the invasion; so that they
had not been introduced to each other, nor had they ever spoken
until after the siege of the wind-mills commenced. Then, more than
two hours after the battle had commenced, Stanly suddenly asked his
companion some question ; and at the very first sound of AIe young
officer's voice, the Hermit started as though he had been smitten with
an electric shock.
"MyGod !" he exclaimed, " that voice--" and grasping Staily's
arm, he looked into his face for a few moments, as if he would read hid
very soul; and then relinquishing his hold, he shook his head and whis-
pered, scarcely above his breath---
" No, no, 'tia impossible;. and yet the voice and features, and even
that almost angel smile, are all her's ;" and then he walked away to
the opposite side of the old mill, without answering the question which
Stanly had asked him.
- After that, nothing further passed between them till after the mad'
project of walling up the windows had been effected, when the first can-
non shot dashed in the whole of one of the windows ; several were
killed outright, and many others most horribly mangled.
Among these was the Hermit. His right arm was torn entirely
away at-the shoulder by a fragment of rock, and another had mangled
his breast in the most awful manner, while a third, or perhaps the ball
itself, had crushed both legs just above the knee. The force of the
missiles which had thus mutilated his body, sent him whirling nearly
across the apartment, and he was flung against Stanly with such vio-
lence that both were borne to the floor together.
As they fell, a miniature.that Stanly had received from the old min-
ister at French Creek as that of his mother, dropped from his bosom,
and hung about his neck in such a way that the first glance of the
Hermit fell upon the exquisite face, and quick as thought he tore the
picture from the ribbon by which it was suspended.
"Almighty God !" he almost screamed, as he sunk down upon the
cold floor, still clutching the miniature in his remaining hand, and all
regardless of his wounds, pressed it convulsively to his lips.
" This--this picture-whoI how came you ?-O, God ?" he exclaimed,
in broken accents, while his eyes wandered from the face of the lovely
creatpIre on the ivory, to that of the young man now kneeling beside
him, and then back to the picture again.
"It is my mother's picture," said Stanly, half bewildered by the
strange scene.


THE EMPRESS OF .THE I  LES.; OR,
" Your mother ! 0, tell me her name ?  Does she live? QuickI
quick ! before-I die !"
" My mother died when I was but 4hree days old, and her name was
Linda-"
"My wife ! my lost Linda !" screamed the dying man. " But your
own name?"
Stanly. It was my mother's dying wish that I -should be thus-
named."
a Stanly--my- own name," murmured the Hermit ; and then he
gasped forth, as be essayed to draw Stanly's face nearer to his own,
gMysonp-child of my wronged wife-named after myself too-0,
she was all that was pure land good, and I believed her false !"
" Ah, William Johnson," he went on, as his gaze rested upon the
giant proportions of the smuggler, who at .that moment appeared from
below and knelt beside him ; "you will know me now, William John-
son. Do ou not recognize the features of---. O, you knew me well
in my boyhood. I was Stanly Alwyn, eldest son and heir to the noble
Earl of Dalhousie.
"-Of my marriage with the beautiful Linda Morris you could not
ae' known, or it occurred long after you-left Canada.,
" But I must be brief, for life's sands are ebbing fast. Come closer,
my son-closer, William Johnson-ay, and you too, Benjamin Letts.
There,:now listen:
"Ere three weeks of my wedded: life had gone by, a human serpent
found his way into our little Eden, and changed my heaven into hell.
You know him-Oliver Shephard, the base spy. But he had another'
name-Richard Delamere-first a minister of the gospel, then a lawyer,
and last of all' a spy.
"I Believe, him when he showed me letters in the hand writing of
my wife-letters which proved her guilty of improper-nay, criminal
connexions with my own brother, two years younger than myself. Yes,
I believed it then, and in my mad infatuation I accused the angel
woman of a crime that I will-not name in the presence of our child.
Ay more than this, I raised my arm against her whose pure heart had
never harbored an unchaste thought. 0 God I Istruck her down with
my clenched fist, and trampled upon 'her with my feet in my demoniac
fury.
"I fled from the house, and when I returned again, two days after
wards, she was gone-gone with only her clothes, and a large sum in
gold, which was her own property.,
" In a letter which she left for me, she asserted her innocence, and
forgave my brutal treatment, but informed me that I should never see
her again.
"For more than two years they said I was mad ; and then, when
my reason came back to me, I learned all the- infernal plot. It was my
own brother who would be the Earl of Dalhousie., and that-arch villain,
Richard Delanmere, who sought to make my angel wife the victim of his
Unholy passion.
I fled from Canada, when the law.said I was insane, and could not
inherit- my father's letters and estates; My brother became Earl of
Dalhousie-Richard Delainere received ten thousand pounds as the

. THE LAKEBRAVO.-
price of his villany, and I-for more than fourteen years =I remained
there in the cave, brooding over my wrongs,.and waiting for the day to
come when I-could strike one good blow for vengeance.
I am dying before my purpose is accomplished; but my son, Stanly
Alwyn, rightful heir to the Earldom and estates of DalhousieWil-
iam Johnson, and, you, Bepjamin Letts-you will-oh, this pain 1-
Shephard--:-the wretch--you-"
-As God hears us ! we will-be most terribly avenged on the vile
miscreant !" swore the giant old smuggler, the desperate bravo, and
Stanly Morris-henceforth Stanly Alwyn---as they knelt there- beside
the dying man, with bared heads and uplifted hands.
Thanks, my friends," murmured the crushed man; and then.,e
gasped-" Stanly--my son--your ear. - Quick--.I augoig--nearer !---
so-isten. Go to the cave-ia the---ehaube---gold--papers-Edith
A convulsive shudder passed over him.-his under jaw fell and the.
mysterous Hermit, Manly Alwyn, father of our hero, and rightful Earl
of Dalhousie, sunk down upon the cold floor a ghastly corpse.
Atthis moment the distant report of a cannon fell faintly upon the
ears of the little group; the next breath Steve Marvell came from the
loft above to inform his friends that the yacht was abreast of the old
wind-mills.and close in with the ,shore, and he was. satisfied 'that her
un was fired as -a signal, to Inform them that she had come to their
rescue."
The yacht had, been sent back to French Creek immediately after
Letts and his friends had landed from her at thepatriot camp, more
than a month previous, and they could not imagine who it was that
coul   ave brought her dwn the river; but her low, snake-like hull-
and tall, raking masts, assured each and all of the friends that-she was
indeed no other than the little Edith ; and they were equally well
assured that they should be perfectly safe, provided they ceuld manage
to .get, on board .of her.
This they had determined to attempt, when a wild, prolonged yell,
rang out from the other millThe cry was caught up and echoed back
by those about them, who rushed out to join their comrades in the
dreadful. melee, leaving the four friends, who stood there in. the fast-
coining shades of night, about the dead body of Stanly's father, the only
occupants of:the dreary old mill,
The roar of cannon suddenly ceased, but all around the old wind-mill
the murderous hand-to-hand fight. was raging in all its horrible And
revolting- details.
l'r five minutes -the work of slaughter and destruction had been
raging without, when the smuggler, snatching up the body of Stanly's  /
father as ;though it had been that of an infant, thus addressed his com-
panions
.My friends,.there is but a bare possibility for us to escape.- Now
it. is very certain that ,the yacht is .manned by our friends, who will
assist-us provided we-can-gain the shore. I advise that each one of us,
aq we. sally out, select the body of a dead soldier, and fit ourselves out
in their red coats and bear-skin shakos, in which we may easily pass for-
British -soldiers..
7


99

'titE EMPRiES oP' THILfEtS ; Oft,

" As for myself, if I gain the yacht at all,I shall bear this body with
me ; and as we may get separated in the darkness and confusion, I
further advise you all three to make for the river as nearly abreast of
the yacht as possible."
All promised to obey these instructions. Before thirty seconds, how-
ever, had elapsed, they were separated, as Johnson had feared, by the
mad whirlwind-of that terrible night massacre. The British soldiers
fought more like fiends than men who wore the garb of Christians.
? One poor fellow, a captain in the little patriot army, so faint and
frozen that he could scarcely support himself, encountered a British
captain with whom he had been on terms of the most intimate friend-
ship.
" Thank God I Arthur," he exclaimed, as he staggered forward, and
clasped his arms around the British captain. He would have added
something more, but this very Christian friend in the scarlet uniform
clutched him by the throat, and stabbed the half-frozen suppliant to the
heart.
Comments upon such acts as these are altogether needless. The
bravery of British officers and soldiers is, and has long 'been, beyond a
question ; but their character for humanity is not so well established
The smuggler, without stopping to -disguise himself as he had.pro.
posed to the others, made the best of his way to the shore, where, within
five minutes, he was joined by Letts, accompanied by about a dozen
others, not one of whom had seen anything of Stanly or Steve Marvell.
Almost at the instant that Letts and his companions reached the
river, two boats from the yacht, which was lying off at a little distance,
pulled in to the bank, in one of which the smuggler placed his lifeless
burden; and, as he' did - so, a hand was laid upon his arms, another.
twined affectionately about his neck, and a low, musical voice whispered
in his ear the word-
" Father."
" In the name of God ! what are you doing here, my child?" inquired
the astonished smuggler, as he folded his brave girl in his arms, and
strained her to his heart.
" I have come here in command of the schooner, father, and I came
to save you. But, father, where is"-and Kate placed her lips- close
to her father's ear, as she whispered the word-"Stanly."
"I had hoped to meet him here," replied her father, " but I fear that
he has been either taken prisoner or--"
" O, no ! do not say that dreadful word, father, interrupted Kate;
" I cannot--" but she was cut-short in her speech by the discharge
of a score of muskets, in the hands of a party of British soldiers, who
had been sent down to prevent the escape of the fugitives.
There was no time to be lost, and the few patriots who had gained-
the beach leaped into the boats which were pulled off to the yacht,
where Letts immediately relieved Kate in her command, and the little
vessel was kept hovering-along the shore, just beyond'the reach of mus-
ketry, until past midnight, when she was squared away up the river for
French Creek, as all on board had determined to have nothing more to
do with the Ogdensburg army of invasion.
Leaving the yacht to pursue her" homeward course, let us- return to

I

I

THE- LAKE BRAVO.

the wind-mills, and follow, for- a brief space, the fortunes -of &amp;sanly-
now Stanly Alwyn, remember-and his friend Steve Marvell.
Soon after leaving the mill, Stanly was seized upon by three British
soldiers, who, less bloody minded than most of their companions, only
stripped him of his borrowed red-coat, and without permitting him te
resume his own, pinioned his arms and marched him off to the town,
where he was thrust into 'a guard-house along with some thirty other
prisoners, among whom he almost immediately recognized Steve Mar-
vell and the boy Charles Gillet, the latter having been slightly wounded
and .his clothes nearly torn oft, in his desperate struggle with his
captors.
-iCHAPTER       XXIL
A PRISON eCENE-A MYSTERIOlUS VISITOR-FRIENDS IN SCARLET--Tan
LIBERATION.
LrrrILE more than a mile from the city of Kingston, are a number of
strong stone buildings with iron doors and barred windows, inclosed by
an immense wall, full six feet in thickness and fifteen in height.
These -buildings had been originally intended for naval workshops,
stores, &amp;c., but since the first outbreak-of the rebellion, they had been
.used as prisons ; and now more than four hundred prisoners were, con-
fined within their cold, granite walls.
Men and boys, taken at various points along the frontier, had been
seat here for trial. Van Sholtz and many other officers had been
strangled with British halters, many more sentenced to death, and more
than two hundred were doomed to transportation to the British penal
colonies for life.
'In a dark, gloomy apartment, whose bare walls of hewn limestone
were almost entirely covered with grotesque pictures, and rude draw-
ings of ships, an l battle scenes done in charcoal, are confined three of
the wind-mill prisoners. They have had their trial, and will be sent as
slaves for life to the far off Austrian colonies.
The chamber where these three persons are confined is a great dark
apartment, more than twenty feet square, dimly lighted by a single
window. They are all heavily ironed, hand and foot, and now one of
the prisoners stands close up to that narrow chink, called a'window,
gazing out at some distant object, and thrusting his face close up into
the chink, as if every half-inch gained in that -direction was a matter
(f the utmost importance.
For five long minutes he remains there in- breathless silence, and
perceives, more than two miles away, over towards Long Island, a
beautiful little craft gliding gracefully along to the westward, under the
influence of a gentle breeze, which all the morning has,,been blowing
from the northward.
"Steve,' he exclaims, in an agitated voice-and as the light streams
through the narrow ercevice, you recognize: the prisoner as our hero,


:100

THE EMPRESS OF THE ISLES; OR,

Stanly Alwyn. "Steve, come here, quick !" and one of his companions,
as fast as his manacled limbs -will permit, shuffles' along to the window.
"Look over there towards.the inland, Steve, and tell me if that craft
is' not-'. ;-."
" The yacht, by heaven! !and as I am a live sailor in double irons, I
can almost -make out Capt. Ben himself. Hurrah ! for liberty and
Yankee land!   Never say.die! and if we don't work Doff of this lee
shore, Steve Marvell's a horse marine."
The third prisoner, aroused by Steve's boisterous exclamations, now
comes forward, and as he approaches the light, we know him as the boy
hero of the wind-mills, the crippled "buckeye" boy, Charles Gillet;
The three prisoners now alternately gaze out at the little schooner
until she disappears behind an elevation of the intervening promontory ;
and then they wonder what the Bravo's plans are ; for that he is in
command of the yacht, and that her appearance there has some refer-
ence to themselves, they do not for a moment'doubt.
Their conference is soon interrupted by the clang of bars and bolts,
and the next moment their prison door swings open, and a prison
official enters, followed by two females, dressed in black and wearing
heavy veils, which entirely conceal their features.
:.  ere is a moment of silence, which is broken by the voice of the
fficial, saying--
"Stephen iarvell, your mother has obtained permission to visit you,
aend bring a bundle of clothing for yourself and companions."
" Mother--" Stephen, my son !"; are the quick and simultaneous
exclamations of Steve and the taller of the two .females, and in a mo-
ment the mother of the noble sailor springs forward, clasps him in her
,arms, strains: him to- her -maternal bosom, and weeps tears of bitter
anguish, as her eyes rest upon his fettered limbs.
" Charley Gillet," again speaks the official "your sister-"
A sudden exclamation-of surprise from the boy interrupts him-
"My sister ! I have---"
But he, too,.is interrupted by the second female, who bounds forward,
flings her arms about the boy's neck, and bending her lips close to his
ear, whispers, in a low but earnest tone, a single word--
"0Caution !"
Some ten minutes having elapsed, the examination of the- various
articles is completed, and the Widow Marvell proceeds to distribute
them among the three prisoners. As Steve takes a pair of boots from
his mother's hands, she points significantly to the thick, double soles,
and-a peculiar meaning smile, which lights up Steves countenance for
a moment, tells that his mother is understood.
The official gives the- visitors -notice that it is time to depart, and
quick as thought, as he turns his face towards the door, thb sister of
the cripple boy darts to the side of Stanly, lays her hand upon his arm,
whispers a single brief sentence in his ear, and the next moment she is
gone..                        :  -       .
" Courage, dear Stanly ; you shall soon be free I"
They are fiut a few words, of plain ordinary speech, but there was a
magic in'them that made the heart of the young captive bound, and
at the blood tingling through his veins like fire.

I

's
4
.
x'
e
P
7
'1
Y
a
t

4 Courage, dear Stanly!" There was but one woman in all the wide
world who would speak thus to him ; and had not his ear recognized
the well-remembered tones of that sweet musical voice, his own heart
would have told him who that woman.was.
The prison door is immediately secured, and as the official pauses to
converse with a soldier on duty, the two females reeline against the
door; and while apparently engaged in earnest conversation, the one
whom we know only as the sister of the boy, appears to be busy with
her hands behind her person, endeavoring to adjust her shawl, or seenre
a book of her dress.
" Is it right now ?" she inquired, turning her back, with her haids
still behind her, towards her companion.
"Yes, that will do," replies the widow, stooping down apparently to
examine the shawl, dress, or hook,-but in reality to look at a most per-
feet impression in wax of the key-hole to the lock.
For a few moments longer the soldier keeps the official engaged, and
the females pass hastily along the corridor to the main entrance, where
they pause by the open door, and the mysterious shawl-arranging or
dress-hooking is repeated, and then, as if drawing their veils down over
their faces had been a pre-concerted signal to the soldier, he shoulders
his musket and turns on his heel, leaving the official, who hastens to,
attend the two ladies to a carriage which is waiting for then. outside
the prison walls.
Scarcely had the door closed upon the prisoners, when Steve Marvell
caught u~p one of the boots brought him by his mother, and seizing the
outer sole in his teeth, he tore it off, disclosing within a cavity neatly
packed full of small flat files, numerous tiny saws manufactured from
watch springs, and a variety of other instruments,- sufficient to have
separated "Her Majesty's' iron fron the limbs of every prisoner in
Canada.
In the cavity of one of Stanly's boots he found a small note from
Letts, which read as follows:
" Keep good courage, my friends, and you shall soon be at liberty.
Secrete the instruments which you find in the boot, and do not use them
- tillyou hear from we again, which will be through a sentry who mounts
guard on the ramparts.                            BEN LETTS."
Stanly thrust the note into his mouth when he had finished reading
it; and at the moment he did so, the light which came in through the
little window was suddenly darkened, a scarlet arm was thrust in through
the chink, a paper fell upon the floor, the arm was withdrawn, and the
British soldier oa the rampart resumed his measured tread as though
the musket had never left his shoulder.
Stanly picked up the paper, and as he unfolded it, -a second note,
directed to himself, met his eye. The first was from Letts, and reed
thus:
" DEAR STANLY--To-morrow night I shall have the yacht in waiting
at Cedar Point. I will meet you at midnight at the prison, and escort
you on board. All needful instructions will be communicated by our
mutual friend, Sergeant McCullough, of the Royal 61st.
Yours,    BEN LETrS."

4*

,,
4
7
A

IM

THE LAKE BRAVO.


1        THE EMPRtESS orV tI 'r SLET 01r

The second-note was dated, and appeared to have been but just writ-
ten. It was as follows:
"cOAPT. STANLY  oi s--Oommence tomorrow evening, all of you,
and remove your irons as fast as possible. The' soldier who is now on
guard on the outer wall, will furnish you with candles to work by,,and
the other, who is now posted in the corridor, will unlock the doors at
midnight with keys made 'to order,' and myself, with eight soldiers
nuder my command, will accompany you to..the yacht-ay ! and to
the American side too, for we have determined to serve tyrants no
longer.                                    JNO. McCULLoUGH..
Fort Edward, April 28, '39.'
As they were not much acquainted with the use of the tools which
they had just received, they concluded to practice awhile on their fet-
ters at once ; and it was decided that they would cut their rivets almost
through, and then they could finish the job much more readily than if
they had it all to do in a moment..
Fifteen minutes"labor satisfied them that they could free themselves
in half an hour, and they proceeded to secrete and remove everything
that might tend to arouse the suspicion of the provost, who would visit
their prison when their dinner was brought in.
Scarcely had the outer gate of the prison closed for the night on the
evening of the 29th of April, when the soldier on the rampart thrust a
dozen candles, a box of matches, and a small bottle of sweet oil through
the window, to facilitate the iion-sawing operation. Within the pack-
age was also another note from Sergeant McOullough, in which he
informed them that the keys were in the hands of the soldier who was
to mount guard in the corridor at ten o'clock, and that everything was
quiet in the garrison:
In-less than half an hour their limbs were free from' the load of iron
which had so long weighed them down, and then, with beating hearts,
they impatiently awaited the midnight hour.
It came at last, and just as the last faint.notes of " Twelve o'clock,
and a-l-'s w-e-l-1l!" was borne to their ears, a cautious tread sounded
along the corridor, the massive door swung back upon its hinges, and a
British soldier beckoned them to come forth.
They were not slow to obey the summons. and as they crossed the
threshold, they were met by Ben Letts, the Bravo, who, as soon as the
door was closed and re-locked, drew one of his pasteboard cards from
his bosom,. which he affixed to the wall, and then in silence the little
party left the prison.
In the yard they were met by Sergeant McCullough and seven more
of."'Her Majesty's" most un-loyal subjects, who preferred serving them-
selyes in a free country, or even serving'- Uncle Sam," to playing slave
in a scarlet coat all their lives at seven-pence per day ; and as they had
all carried their muskets so long that. they almost seemed a part and
portion of themselves, they determined to carry the matter still further
and the mnuskets-they carried them off altogether.
With the utmost cautiqa they pursued their way across the rugged
peninsula,, and within twenty minutes from  the time they left the
prison, 'they were all safely on board the yacht which was at once got

159

.
;'
_#
.,
i
.y
k

THDE LAKE BRAVO.

103

under weigh, while Stanly and Steve Marvell were paying their respects
to the two ladies in black, who had so materially aided their escape
from a Canadian prison.
At an early hour on the following morning the whole party were
seated at breakfast at the home of the smuggler.
CHAPTER XXIII.
THE, ISLAND' FORTRESS-TRE EXPEDITION--BURNING OF THE SIR ROBERT
PEEL---KATE, THE HEROINE-WORKING A TRAVERSE.
DIRECTLY in the fair way between French Creek and the town of
Ganannoque, on the Canadian side, and nearly in the centre of the St.
e Lawrence, is a little rocky islet, rising almost perpendicular on all sides
to an immense height,.presenting the singular appearance of a huge
monumental shaft, wrought by the hand of Nature, and planted there
-like a grim sentinel, on the outskirts of the " Thousand Islands"
The -summit of this rock is crowned with a dense growth of low
stunted pines, and is inaccessible at all points, save on-the southwestern
side, where there is a narrow, winding path that leads from the water
to the summit.
This Martin Vas of the St. Lawrence is known as Grindstone Island-
and here, in the spring of 1838,-it is known that the famous Smnuglei
of French Creek took refuge and defied the united powers of Great
Britain and the United States.
Some three weeks previous to the liberation of the three prisoners,
" Old Bill," assisted by Letts and a few other desperate characters,
captured and burned a British schooner, in the river St. Lawrence.-
unluckily, it happened in the American-waters--and the United States
marshal had arrived at French Creek with an order from Washington
for his arrest. But he escaped in one of his boats to Grindstone Island,
which, in anticipation of such an event, he had fortified with two can.
nons that they dragged up to the top of the rock with tackles, and
there, with some twenty of his friends, he was besieged by two armed
steamers, one American and the other English.
Old Bill, however, gave himself little uneiminess on account of this
combined blockade, for he could defend that precipitous path with his
two guns against the whole force of England and America combined.
Nevertheless, he regretted being penned up there, inasmuch as it had
been arranged that he should take command of an expedition to burn
one of the Royol Mail steamers plying on the lakes and- River St.
Lawrence, as an ast of retaliation for the destruction of the Caroline ;
and now that he was shut up there on the land, he feared that the
project would be abandoned or postponed.
Sfe Was mistaken in his surmise, for on "the very evening after the
return of the yacht, as, some twenty-five persons who had "sword in"
as members of the secret cutting out expedition were discussing the
matter at the home of the smuggler, the 'motion was put to vote, and


104

THE EMPfESS OF.- THE ISLES; OR,

carried almost unanimously, that the expedition 'should be 'given up
until Old Bill was out of trouble and could go with therm as ther com-
mander. But for once democracy was powerless, and a minority tri-
umphed.; for Kate walked deliberately into the midst of the company,
and with as much queenly dignity 'as ever the haughty Joanna of
Naples assumed, thus addressed the astonished group:
" Gentlemen, you may deem me bold and unmaidenly, but many of
you know me to be a smuggler's daughter-more familiar with rough,
out-door life, than I am with the fashionable accomplishments of a
modern boarding-school Miss.            '.  -
" I know my father has set his heart upon destroying that steamer.
le said she should be burned on her next passage down the river ;
that will be the day after to-morrow--and burned she shall be, if Kate
Johnson lives, and five of you dare accompany her."
Ere the last words had passed her lips, the cripple boy, Charles
Gillet, bounded to her side, and drawing his slight figure up to its full
height, he looked fiercely around for a moment, and then turning to
Kate, said-
" May I go with you?"
She took the boy's hand, and a sweet smile wreathed her lips; but-
before she could speak, Steve Marvell shied his tarpaulin into the mid-
dle of the floor, and springing -to the side of the boy, he shouted-
" Hurrah for Kate Johnson ! Excuse me, Miss Kate ; but put me
down for your bow oarsman, if you please, and d-n me if I don''pull
an oar wherever you dare to steer her, if it's through the brimstone lake
itself, in chase of old Commodore Beelzebub."
While Steve was speaking, Stanly and Letts came forward and stood
there with folded arms and looks that spoke their determination to
accompany the brave girl when and wherever she chose to direct.
They had been silent before, because they were 'not of the "sworn"
party ; and they were silent now, because their resolve was taken, and
they had nothing to say. They were ready for action.
Whenthe sailor ceased to speak, there was a pause for perhaps ten
seconds, and so profound was the silence, that each one heard as well as
felt the beating of his own heart."
Then there was a long-drawn hissing respiration, as if all had been
holding their breath, and the next moment there burst forth simultane-
ously from all, three as lusty cheers " for Kate Johnson" as ever went
up from human throats.S
Twenty-four hours after this scene occurred, a stout barge, manned
by thirty-six determined fellows, each armed with a brace of pistols and
a heavy dragoon cutlass, shot out into the strong current of the St.
Lawrence from behind Washington Island, and darted away like a
swift bird down the river.S
Had it. been daylight, she would have presented a most strange pic-
ture, guided as she was By a girl not more than eighteen years old, and
armed like the others-perhaps for murderI
Some thirty miles below lrench Creek, the navigable channel of the
St., Lawrence is contracted into a narrow, intricate passage, in some
places not more than three hundred yards in width, through which the
current rushes with great velocity.  -

T"hE LAKE BRAVO.

'O.

This little strait, bounded on the east by a chain of bare ledges and
small rugged islets, and on the west by a long narrow island, rising to
a -considerable height, and covered with woods, is called the " Lower
Narrows."
Just' about midway of this island is a wood-landing, where a few of
'the larger steamers were in the habit of stopping to replenish their
stock of fuel; and here, at sundown, on the evening after that barge,
filled with armed men, left Fiench Creek, a noble steamer, the Sip
ROBERT PEEL, 'one Qf the " royal mail line" on Lake Ontario, hauled is
alongside the rocks to wood.
Three quarters of an hour went by, and the shades of night were fast
gathering around the steamer; the party of soldiers on board had
stacked their muskets, aind leaving a single sentry on deck, were quietly
taking their supper. -A bugler on the promenade deck was blowing
away at" 3Britania rules the waves," as earnestly as though he really
believed it; the hands were earnestly engaged in taking in wood, an
-no sound gave warning of approaching danger, when, sudden as the
bound of a couched leopard, from the opposite side of the narrow chau-
nel darted that barge, black with hostile men and bristling with steel.
On she came, like the swoop of the monster seaeagles, and ere the
klarnm could be sounded and the  itish soldiers gain their muskets;
thirty-six men, armed for destrucE ion and led on by that girl com-
mander, stood upon the steamer's deck.
" Over board with the lobsters' muskets !" shouted Steve Marvell
and ere you could count ten, the muskets were flung over the side into
the river.                                               -
The captain would have resisted, but the gleam of twenty sabres awed
the few who cared to fight, and within five minutes the steamer was in
possessian of the " avengers" without a blow having been struck, or a
single shot fired.
It was' very unlike that scene of midnight murder, when the ill-fated
Caroline was destroyed.
Fore and aft the word was passed for everybody belonging the
steamer to leave her ; and in less than twenty niinutes, all, save the
commander, stood on the shore. He still remained standing in the
.gangway, inquiring of the young heroine who stood beside him with one
hand laid upon the butt of a pistol in her belt-" And, what do you
intend-to do with the steamer ?"
Kate smiled as she pointed significantypto a man coming aft with a
blazing fire-brand; and then, with a clear, ringing tone, that was distinctly
heard by all on the shore, she said                           y
"REMEMBER THE CAROLINE !"
" All ashore !" shouted the Bravo, at this moment, in a voice like a
speaking trumpet. - -
" Cut away your fasts there, fore and aft, bawjed Steve Marvell; and
with a cry 'of despair and rage, the English captain leaped ashore, as
he saw a score of cutlasses hacking away at. the stout hawsers that
secured the steamer to the rocks.
The engines were set in motion; off from the shore swung the boat,
to the-centre of the narrow passage, when' the wheels were stopped, both
anchors let go, and thirty men with brands of fire were hurrying to and


106           THE EMPRESS OF THE ISLES ; OR,.
fro in the hold, on deck, and in the gorgeous cabins, while Kate and
Stanly, Letts and the crippled boy, stood there on the gangway in
silence, and smiled as they saw their busy -comrades applying the torch,
and lighting up the flames to avenge the destruction of the 'Caroline.
At length, when a hundred fires had been so thoroughly lighted that
no human agency could save her, the party left the steamer, and pull-
ing their barge off a few hundred yards, they lay on their oars and
watched her, till the fire burst out in p e -sheet of flame, fore and aft,
when they gave three cheers for " Kate Johnson," and settling back to
their oars, they sent the barge through the water like an arrow, in the
direction of French Creek, leaving Her Majesty's Royal Mail Steamer,
Sin ROBERT PEEL, to her fate.
The news of this act of open piracy went like wild-fire, and a reward
of five hundred dollars each had been offered by the President for all
concerned in the outrage, together with a thousand for the commander,
and a like sum for the smuggler chief, who was still penned up on
Grindstone Island ; and twenty United State smarshals were on the
alert to make the arrest and win the promised reward.
One beautiful afternoon, about ten days after the affair happened, as
Kate was pulling over to her father's island fortress, with a six-oared
barge, loaded with provisions for the little garrison, she was intercepted
when about a mile from the island, by an American steamer, with a
marshal on board, who directed the captain to run down for the barge,
so that he might arrest the " female pirate."
Bill Johnson and his family had no warmer friend than the captain
of that steamer, and he would have gladly passed on without noticing
the barge ; but the pompous marshal was very positive-and so, reluc-,
tantly, the captain bore down for the barge.
Kate saw the impossibility of escape, and so ordered her little crew
to cease rowing.
In five minutes the barge was within an oar's length of the steamer's
quarter, and the marshal leaning over the rail, began to summon
Miss Kate in particular, and her crew generally, to give themselves up.
"By the authority, and in the name of-----"
The next instant the heroic officer dodged down behind the bulwarks,
while the captain and three or four others who had gathered near,.
burst into a roar of laughter.'
There, in the barge alongside, stood six determined looking fellows,
each with his oar poised on end, and presenting the muzzles of six very
ominous looking dragoon pistols towards the spot from whence the
valiant mashal had just disappeared.
In the stern sheets stood Kate, with one tiny foot resting lightly upon
the guniyale of the boat, while*in one hand she displayed the British
flag captured from the Peel, and in the other a pistol, which, like her
crew, she pointed towards the steamer.
For ten, twenty seconds, they stood there in silence, and then the
captain of the steamer removed his hat, and bowed politely to the
beautiful girl, who returned the courtesy, and resumed her seat; and
as the barge-shot ahead of the steamer, and the quick dip of oars grew
faint in the distance, the brave marshal left his hiding-place behind the
bulwarks,-and in a trembling voice inquired if they were goneI

TH E LAKE BRAVO,101
" Shall I run her alongside of'emn again ?" inquired the captain.
".0, for God's sake, no!" screamed the marshal, " don't go near 'em
again, or that little fire-cat, with her six pirates, will kill and burn us
all up together, as they did the Peel.
" Let her go, and if government wants her and her desperate crew,
they may come and get them. I'll have nothing more to do with it."
Nearly all of those who had been concerned in the burning of the
Peel, had taken refuge on the island with Old Bill; but as it was
utterly impossible that they could hold out there for any great length
of time, some forty of them, among whom were the old smuggler him-
self, Stanly, Steve and Kate, surrendered to a single United- States
marshal, who removed them from the island to the smuggler's home at'
French Creek, there to await instructions from .the Supreme Court.
.The marshal who secured the prisoners and the rewards, amounting
in all to some twenty-two thousand dollars, was "Bill Johnson, Jr.,"
the eldest son of the smuggler.
This manoeuvre was what the saliors denominated "a regular Tom
Cox's traverse ;" and it was a grand speculation for some of the pris-
oners, whose pockets had not been blessed with a dollar for many a day.
-f
CHAPTER     XXIV.
A JUDICIAL FARCE-THE BRAVO REDEEMS HIS OATH MADE OVER THE
MURDERED DURFEE.
MosT fortunate for Bill Johnson and his associates was it, that at
the very time of their arrest by Bill Jr., a blustering Canadian named
Alexander McLeod, a perfect vagabond bragadocio, who, by his own
avowal-had been one of the party of British marauders who destroyed
the Caroline, had been caught on the American side, arrested, and after
a vain attempt to organize a court- and empannel a jury, either at Lock-
port or Batavia, in whose presence it would be safe to trust him, he
was at last removed to Onedia county, under the protection of a de-
tachment of United States troops, and was then undergoing his trial at
Whitesboro for that act of piracy.
Although it was proved beyond a doubt that the(braggart was not
within fifty miles of the Niagara frontier on the night that the Caroline
-was burned, yet so great was the indignatin against him for even
boasting that he had been one of that murderous band, that had he
not been constantly protected by a strong military force, it is more than
probable that lie could not have lived to cost the United States some
seventeen thousand dollars for the expense of a trial, standing armies
to protect him until he sailed for England, pocket money, travelling
expenses, &amp;c. Why, theft women ;would have thrashed him to death
with their broom-handles and mop-sticks, or the -boys would have
bean his brains out with brick-bats, if it were only to show the world
in general, and the British government in particular, that they could
feel, and dared resent the shameful act of piracy, if their government
did not.

W.


108.

THE EMPRESS OF, THE ISLES ; OR,

Under circumstances like these, it is not very strange that when the
old Smuggler of the St. Lawrence, and his associates, made their appear-
ance before the Supreme Court -in Albany, they were everywhere-and
by everybody looked upon as heroes'who had achieved a glorious action,
rather than a band of lawless brigands, who had been guilty of an
atrocity not a whit less than that of the British pirates at Selosher, only
that they had not committed murder.  =
Strangers as they were, they were treated with a hospitality' that
perfectly astonished them.. During their stay'in Albany, lawyers of
the highest eminence volunteered their services; -hotels were thrown
open to them, men of the highest respectabilityy offered to sign their
bail bonds, and if the. amount had been fixed at. a million dollars, it
would have been made up in less than twenty-four hours.-
Kate was an object of especial interest, and was hailed by all with
acclamations and huzzas quite as enthusiastic as any that ever greeted
Kossuth after he landed upon our shores.
A truO bill was found by the grand jury against Bill Johnson, and
some ten of the others, for burning the British schooner. and against
the remainder for the capture and destruction of the Sin ROBERT
PEEL.
Ten days went by-the Supreme Court was in session, and the
prisoners were ready for trial, when suddenly it was discovered by the
Chief Justice, Attorney General, counsel for the defense, jury, and
everybody else, that these'acts were committed without the jurisdiction
of the United .States, and the Court was incompetent to try the pris-'
oners.
Of course a nolle prosequi was entered, the accused set at liberty, and
it was almost as necessary to surround them with a military guard to
keep the people from killing them with kindness, as it had been to pro--
tect-McLoed from the popular fury. -
Another week spent among the hospitable Albanians, and then the
old smuggler, with his daughter, and accompanied by Stanly and Steve
Marvell, left for home, while the others of the party dispersed in various
directions to seek out new adventures and squander the prize money
which they had received for their own capture.
Charles Gillet, the cripple boy, became a student at-law, and is now
one of the most eminent lawyers in the State of Ohio; so very popular
is he with the people of that State, that they have already bestowed
upon him some of the highest offices in their gift.
One of the company who assisted in the destruction of the Peel,
had not been arrested. This was Ben Letts. Immediately after the
party returned to French Creek, he presented Kate with his beautiful
yacht, saying it was the only recompense he bad it' in hispower to
make for all the care and trouble his.unfortunate sister must necessarily
make her; and then, after taking- an affectionate leave of his friends,
he departed for the West, to fulfil some of the promises he had made
to Heaven and his friends in Canada. -
It-was a calm summer's night in the month of June, about the time
that the party of "avengers" arrived at Albany, that an hour perhaps
past midnight, a solitary individual passed across the wooden bridge

Tit LAKE RAV.               1 409

that.spans the Welland River in the village of Chippeway, and with a
cautious, noiseless tread, took his-way along the street which led to the
northern part of the town.
After he had passed on- for nearly a quarter of a mile, he slakened
his pace, and' appeared to be-examining the houses as though he was a
stronger in the neighborhood, and sought some particular building that
should answer a description which he-had inhis mind.
At last he seemed to have found the one he was in search of,. bit as
.f to assure himself beyond a doubt, he crept along like a cat till he was
=elose up to the door, and then,-after a moment, the'pale blue flame-of a
natch, which he held up to the door plate, was reflected back from the
Polished metal,..and revealed-or might .have done ,so, had any one
been present to see them--the features of BEN LETTS, THE LAXI
B AVO.-t.
By the faint glimmer of that match he read: the name of Captain
Hugh Fitzgerald, engravp.d on the silver plate. The next moment his
hand was upon the bel-pull, and a peal was rung that must have
instantly awakened those within; for scarce half a minute went by, ere
a man in his night-clothes appeared at the door, and demanded the
stranger's business.
"Is your name Fitzgerald ?" inquired the Bravo.
"It is," replied the Canadian captain.
"You commanded the expedition that destroyed the piratical steamer
CI did ; and killed two of the d- d Yankees with my own hand.
Our Sovereign Lady the Queen has knighted McNab, who did nothing
for that affair, while I-"
He.did not finish the -sentence, for a gripe like that of an iron vice
was upon his throat. Therewas a. loud report of a pistol, and when
the neighbors, aroused by the noise and the screams of the female
inmates-of the house, hastened to the. spot, they beheld the dead
body of Captain Fitzgerald, lying across the threshold, and his brains
spattered on the door and walls, while at the silver knob hung a paste-
board card, bearing the ominous words-" BEN LETTs, THE BRAVO."
CHAPTER XXV.
THE TWO GRAVES AND THE TWO MOURNERS-THE INTERIOR OF THE COT-
TAGE-TABLEAU VIVANT-THE CORONATION-" THE EMPRESS OF THE
iSLE5..
'LOVELY as the first Paradise before the tempter- came, and by his
serpent wiles beguiled the first of woman, is that fairy island, sparkling
like an emerald there on the bosom of the magnificent old St.:Lawrence.
It is- the last week of the leafy month of June, and Summer, like the
queen of beauty, has. donned her most gorgeous robes. The willows
that skirt the shores of the tiny lakelet with their long, pendant boughs,
drooping like mighty plumes, till they kiss the mirrored surface of the
water the miniature wilderness of fruit, and ornamental 'trees planted


1 10          THE EPASJS4 OF TH     SE LES; Ol,
by the hand of Kate Johnson herself there in the artistically-laid-putl
cottage grounds, the superb parterre with its delicate array of f-owers,
the fields of luxuriant clover, the three or four giant old trees, stand-
ing out alone as the eternal guardians of the little islet,.and the dark
woods beyond, are all out in their brightest, most splendid holiday
garb. Oh, it is a most lovely spot, is this little gem of the St. Law-
rence-Linda's Island; and I love to linger here, to return to it often,
and dwell upon, its almost sylvan beauties.
,  Once more we -stand beneath the venerable old willow, beside the
grave of Linda Morris. Not the lone,:solitary grave that we have bean
wontto gaze upon in times gone by, for now there is a newer mound,.o
close to it that a beautiful rose-bush which grows up between them,
spreads its branches, now laden with a profusion of blushing flowers,over
both graves. At the head of the new-made grave stands a chaste marble
slab, upon which we read-

STANLY ALWYN,
EARL AND MARQUIs oF DaLHOUsIE,
KILLED
AT PRESCOT, JANUARY13th, 1839,
.E1D 47 YEARS.
Erected by his friend,'
WM. JOHNSON.

Yon know, as you read that simple epitaph and the name of the noble
old smuggler in the margin, that William Johnson has redeemed the
promise he made in the old wind-mill that winter afternoon, as he held
the dead body-of the Hermit in his armsS j" As for myself, if Iescape at
al, I shall carry him with me !"
By the generous bravery, and more than woman's kindness of the
rough old smuggler, the Hermit of the Genesee, Earl of Dalhourse,
husband of Linda  Morris, and father of Stanly Alwyn, has found a
grave beside his wronged wife, from whom he had been so painflly
separated, and who, by the accursed wiles of a vile wretch, had been
crushed like a frost-blighted flower in the very spring-time of her
existence.   f
Two forms are kneeling there at the head of the two graves under
the old willow. Both are dressed in deep mourning. You understand,
without beholding their faces, that these two mourners are Stanly
Alwyn, our hero, and the beautiful Kate Johnson, our heroine.
" Come, dear Kate"-the young man speaks after more than fifteen
minutes of profound silence--"come, Kate, let us return to the cot-
tage. Our friends will, I fear, grow impatient at our long delay."
And raising the kneeling maiden from the ground, the young man
imprints a kiss upon her velvet cheek, and arm in arm the sad, yet
happy lovers take their way, along the path which leads from the two
graves 'to the cottage.
We will follow them, if you please. I am at home here, and I pro-
mise you we shall not intrude. Come, let us enter the cottage along
with the lovers.

You are astonished, almost bewildered, as.you enter the elegant
parlor of this beautiful island cottage. ~Everything is new and in such
perfect harmony, blending richness of material with a chaste style, and
durability with ornamental construction, that you feel it was no com-
mon order of female genius which had superintended the purchase of
these things, and the interior arrangement of the cottage.
You are right-the mind and genius of Kate Johnson is of no com-
mon order ; and yet'it seems almost incredible that a young girl, born
and reared in that wild, out-of-the-way region, and who had never seen
a town in her whole life larger than the little village in which she was
born, until her recent visit to Albany, could have displayed such admi-
rable taste in fitting up this beautiful Eden home.
.But there is a group of persons assembled here in this cottage parlor
that claims our attention. The faces of all are familiar, and you will
require no introduction. ° No, there are two persons present who are
strangers to us. I did not notice them at first. One of these we have
seen once before, but it was in the dim, uncertain light of a gloomy
prison ; besides, she wore a heavy black vel, that almost entirely co-
cealed her features.
You will guess In a moment-who it is: the mother of our sailor friend,
Steve Marvell. We have a better view of her here than we had there
in the Canadian prison, where the dim light that struggled: in through
that narrow chink, served only to render the darkness apparent; and we
can say that she is a good-looking old lady, perhaps fifty years of age,
with hair unstreaked by a single thread of gray, and frank, expressive
features, very nearly resembling those of her son.
The other stranger is a tall, handsome, well-dressed man,.perhaps
forty-five, and seems far more familiar with armies and military parades
than with law, gospel, or the peaceable pursuits of agriculture.
You are not mistaken. He is an officer of high rank in the army of
the United States. I am sorry that I cannot introduce him by his
proper name. It would be a breach of confidence, and I dare not do
it. Suffice it, then, that he was a general in the army of the United.
States, and I will call him Gen. Wo---. No, that is too near his real
name. Whitney, then--Gen. Whitney, U. S. Army. But we will leave
him, and glance at the other persons present.
There on the sofa, beside the widow Marvell, is seated the beautiful
Edith, with an open book in her hand, which is all unheeded, while she
converses in a low tone with- her companion. The bloom of health
again mantles her damask cheek, and every mark of insanity has left
-her features, except now and then a quick and restive glance of her
blue liquid eyes, tells that the lurking demon makes his home in her
bran
Near the door through which they have just entered the apartment,
stands the lovers, Stanly and Kate ; by the centre-table is seated Steve
Marvell, abstractedly turning over aportfolio of splendid marine draw.
ings; while the last figure in the tableau vivant is the herculean old
Smuggler himself, standing there within arms length of Gen. Whitney,
and apparently absorbed in the contents of a letter.which the general
hasgiven him to read.
" We are all prepared here at the Creek," says the Smuggler, as.h.

THE LAKE..I3RAVV..

111

- -


12           THE EMPRESS OF T'Er ISLES ; OR,
refolds the "letter and return' it to Gen. Whitney. " Yes, we are all
ready here, General. I was notaware that you were the fist to propose
this, fete-, till now."
"Nor was I," replies the general .  More than twenty of my friends
spoke of it to me while you-and your daughter were in Albany. I
have been the most active perhaps in making the necessary prepara-
tions ; but, in confidence, the, Governor of the Empire State was the first
person that proposed it in any definite fora. - He, like the majority of'
the. people, is indignant at the imbecile course pursued by our Govern-
ment with regard to the Caroline 'outrage, and proposes this fete for
the three-fold .purpose of doing honor to your brave girl, showing our
contempt of the narrow minded, servile policy pursued by the United
States. Government, and telling that of Great Britain that the people
of the State of, New York dared to show their abhorrence of such acts
of'attocity as that of the Sloscher massacre,-and dared'to bid defiance
to 4Her Majesty's'"red-coated legions in the'most emphatic terms.
"And now, as the fete is to-come-off to-morrow, it behooves us to be
moving ;=and at your earliest convenience, we will all return to Clay-
ton."-
We are all ready, sir," replied Stanly; and, in less than twenty
minutes-exactly in the'spot where we first made, the acquaintance of
our hero as 'he laided from the-steamer more than two years ago--the
party all embark on board 'the yacht and she is-standing over towards
Clayton ; 'and as it is long past noon, and to-morrow we shall be called
to witness one of the most exciting scenes ever enacted on the Canadian
frontier, we will bid the yacht and her company adieu, and rest, as all
novel writers and-readers do, somewhere till morning.
THE CORONATION.                 .
It is the hour of sunrise, and a day.more gorgeously 'lovely never
dawned upon the world. Not a single cloud'specks the blue arch of
heaven,; the vast current of the' majestic St. Lawrence goes sweeping
en as unruffled and quiet as the calm sleep of a rocked infant ; the
tops of the lofty old pines sway lazily to and}'fro, just stirred by the
gentle western breeze, and the air, perfumed by the odor of fields and
flowers, is vocal with the matin song of ten thousand feathered song-
sters.
Midway of Well's Island in the lower Narrows, in sight of the British
garrison at Brockville, on the very spot where thecrew and passengers
of the Peel had landed.at the time-of her-capture, is assembled, on this
beautiful summer morning, a vast concourse of people-more than five
thousand you would. say, as your eye wanders over that sea of human
heads, extending from the water far back into the dim recesses of the
rocky,, pine-clad island.
More than thirty sail of vessel, mostly beautiful schooners, and one
noble steamer, are moored along the rocks ; and as the bright, warm sun
rolls up above the dark, old woods on the American side of the river-.
away aloft to mast heads and gaff ends, on board the moored fleet, go
banners and streamers, and beautiful motto flags;' and from a hundred
tall pines on the island blows, in the gentle breeze, the glorious banner
of;the stare.

THE -LAKE BRAVO.                     113    '
"In the name of all that's wonderful, what does all this mean V' you
inquire.
There is no time for an explanation, for the crowd that line the rocky
cliffs there, abreast of the clipper-looking brigantine, fall suddenly back
from theshore, and disclose a splendid battery of cannon, and the next
moment =these beautiful guns begin to speak. in- thunder tones their
"good morning," to the assembled multitude.
One after another, in quick succession, they belch forth their sheets
of flame, till young havecounted twenty-seven, and then you know that it
is a round national salute.
But the occasion--I-but hark ! An answering gun-look there-
yonder above the Narrows, some four miles away, just where those three
little green islets almost block up the river and shut out all the view
beyond !
Just bursting on the vision, through that narrow channel, comes
dashing on a magnificent steamer, her decks black with human beings,
all her flags and gorgeous banners waving free, music paig and her
cannon thunderingobacktheir deafening response to or battery here
"What does it all mean ?"
Softly, my friends: let us watch every movement, and it is strange
if we don't find out. But see! as the steamer rounds to, and heads in
towards the rocks, we behold there on her upper deck, near the pilot
house, several persons whom we recognize in a moment.
There is Gen. Whitney, and the giant form of Bill Johnson. Stanly
and Steve Marvell are- standing there near 'the- smuggler; and there
are nearly a dozen others whom we know, but it is scarcely prudentere
speak their names here. They are all men holding some of the highest
offices in the State. They are here "incog," and we will not stare
thrm out ot countenance.
But there, a few steps in advance of these gentlemen strangers, is a
group'that challenges our utmost admiration.
Thirty maidens, perhaps-all dressed in spotless white, bare-headed,
and their brows encircled by wreaths twined of laurel and roses, with
features that would rival the houries of an eastern Paradise-present a
galaxy of beauty that the whole frontier from Michigan to the St. Law-
rence cannot equal.
In thecentre of the group stands a glorious creature, so trancendently
lovely that she exceeds in magic charms even the beautiful creatures
about her, as far as the bright noon-day sun does the dim stars seen
through the midst of night, in splendor. I
She is clothed -in a robe of rich azure satin, with a mantle of gor-
geous purple velvet, lined with rose-colored silk, trimmed with ermine
and elaborately embroidered with gold,-while on her superb arms, bare
to the elbow, she wears, as you obseve, massive bracelets, flashing with
jewels that fling back the sunlight in ten thousand reflections.
Her head, like those by whom she is surrounded, is bare, but instead
of a green laurel wreath, she wears a tiara of virgin silver, with olive
and laurel leaves of purest gold, and at the stem of each there gleams
in the bright, warm sunlight, a sparkling diamond.
We all recognize her: little need is there for any one to tell us that
8


114           THE EMPRESS-OF THE ISLES ;
it is our heroine-Kate Johnson-that creature of superhuman beauty
there on the steamer's deck.
But look there again !
General Whitney advances a few steps, waves his hand and bares
his head, A broad banner of lustrous satin is run aloft to a flag-staff
at the steamer's bows, and now, as:its -ample folds float out on the
breeze, we behold embroidered on it, in natural colors, a burning steamer
and a gallant barge filled with armed men, and guided by a magnificent
girl.
There is a moment's silence as that significant emblazonry of the
banner meets the gaze of the assembled thousands, and then hate,
scarfs, and snowy handkerchiefs are waved enthusiastically-and, as
from the lips of one man, there goes up a wild, thrilling shout of exulta-
tion. Another, and another, in quick succession, gaining in strength and
volume at each hurrah, till they wake the far-off echoes and startle the
frightened eagle in his'distant eyrie..
On the instant that the last shout leaves the lips of the screaming
multitude, the roar of cannon from the rock battery again peals forth,
like the dread thunder of Heaven's artillery.
Flash follows flash, and peal on peal the brazen-throated guns bellow
forth their welcome, till a royal salute, equal to that which greets the
Sovereign of England, has been fired,; and then, as the huge steamer
swings into her berth alongside the rocks, the royal cortege of the
young native Princess of the St. Lawrence comes forth with all the.
pomp and splendor of a regal pageant._
First comes Gen. Whitney as Grand Marshal and master of the
ceremonies, next two heralds, followed by a body of thirty stout men
at arms, and then the young Princess with her attendants, after which
come her family and personal friends, and last of all, a long procession
of gallant looking men and beautiful women, who have come hither to
assist at the first coronation known to history in North America-may
it be the last History will record on this division of the Western
World.
Two hours of busy preparations have passed, and we behold on the
bare, rugged rock, directly in the rear of the battery, a splendid throne
erected ; andnow the death-like silence is broken by the blast of many
trumpets; and when the brazen clangor is stilled, the heralds in a loud
voice proclaim Catherine the 1st ag QUEEN of the Thousand Islands !
Another storm of applause follows this announcement, and then, with
all the solemnity and ceremony practiced at a European coronation,
Kate Johnson, the Smuggler's daughter, heroine of the St. Lawrence,
is anointed EMPRESS oFr' THE ISLES, under the title of Queen Cathe-
rine      whrwn1.ettl                           fQenCte
Another whirlwind of enthusiasm, another royal salute, and the first
North American Sovereign ascends her rock-based throne.
An hour more is spent in the selection and appointment of the offi-
cerspf the "household," and now the august ceremonies being ended,
the festivities 1f .the day commence.,
A'dozen stewards are appropriated, and a magnificent collation being
served up in the sylvsn shades back from the shore, every subject of
the realm sits down in the most approved modern pie nie style, and a

0

115

happier sovereign or a merrier people the sun never shone upon. The
repast.being ended, the Empress is escorted by a guard of honer back
to the noble steamer, and amid the roar of artillery and the deafening
shouts of her loyal subjects, departs for Clayton, leaving more than four
thousand queen-makers on the island, who are determined to keep up
the festivities throughout the night.
At a lats hour in the evening the young Queen arrives at the
smuggler's home, where she dismisses her attendants, lays aside her
dignity and royal robes together, and embraces her mother, who had
remained at home, and seats herself beside Stanly, once more the blush-
ing, loving Kate Johnson.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE COAST GUARD-DESTRUCTION OF THE MONUMENT--CONSTERNATION
AND INDIGNATION-BURNING OFF A CANAL--THE TORPEDO--TERROR-
THE SILENT WARNING.
The news of Capt. Fitzgerald's murder was conveyed with the utmost
despatch to all the frontier towns in Canada, and caused more excite-
ment than anything that had occured since the Ogdensburgh crusade
and the battle of the wind-mills.
Everybody was familiar with the dreadful oath of vengeance uttered
by young Letts thire in the Court House in Kingston on the day of
his trial; but full two years had gone.since his last incendiary act had
been committed, and people generally, if they ever thought o the mat-
ter at all, Bame to the conclusion that Ben Letts was dead or that his
utmost vengeance was satisfied.
But when the startling intelligence of this most deliberate murder,
and the Bravo's open avowal of the deed, was bruited abroad, the
utmost excitement prevailed, and the police, as well as the military,
were immediately on the alert to arrest the assassin.
At all the ports from which any vessels sailed, extra troops were
stationed, guards were placed on board of all vessels in the harbors,
and every precaution was taken to prevent the Bravo's escape from
Canada; and as he was outlawed, so that any man might shoot 'him
down with impunity, and a reward of two thousand pounds was offered
for his head, it seemed altogether impossible that he could long elude
the vigilance of these in pursuit.
Ten days went by, during which not a single trace of the murderer
had been discovered, when another outrage was committed that caused
a universal feeling of horror at its cold-blooded, heartless atrocity, not
only throughout the British Provinces, but wherever it was heard in
the United States.
On Queenstown heights, at the distance of seven miles below Niagara
Falls, and on the very spot where Gen. Sir Isaac Brock was killed,
was erected 'a magnificent column of massive granite masonry to his
memory.
GnrlBrock was: said to. have been one of the noblest 111011 that

0

TE -LAKE BRIMV0


a

116

THE EXFPRESS OF THE ISLES; OR,

ever wore the British uniform. - A ripe scholar, a universal philanthro.
'pist, and an accomplished gentleman, every body loved him while living,
oand when dead, thousands who had never seen him, revered his mem-
ery-and the spontaneous gratitude of the Canadian people built him
that splendid monument.
It was a calm starlight evening, near the hour of ten, that four sol-
iera of ~the coast guard, having seated themselves on tlieoruins of a
redoubt on Queenstown Heights, not half a mile from the monument'
which arose - between them and the clear blue sky, its arrowy shaft
pointing towards Heaven, were conversing of the dead hero whose vi-
tues and many acts of heroism were commemorated by the giant column,
and engraved on the marble tablets embedded in its walls.
On the other side of the monument, at about the same distance, a
party consisting of four ladies, two of whom were lineal descendants of
the illustrious Brock, two British. officers in their brilliant scarlet
uniform, and a venerable, gray-haired, old man, who stood beside Sir
Isaac Brock when he fell, were assembled on the porch of a farmhouse
which commanded a view of the monument, upon whose dim outlines
their eyes were fixed as they discoursed of the renowned warrior.
At the open'windows of a hotel in the village of Queenstown, a party
of American ladies and gentlemen, arrived that evening from Buffalo,
were conversing of the many interesting reminiscences connected with
the,"heights" upon which they were gazing, and which on the morrow
they intended to visit.-
All at once, as they gazed upon the monumental column--the four
soldiers on the old redoubt-the little company assembled on the rustic
porch of the farmhouse-.the party of Americans there at the windows
of the hotel--quick as the lightning's flash, there was a crash, a roar,
and for a moment Niagara itself was hushed by the awful explosion, and
then all was still. When they looked again, the stately shaft was shorn
of half its towering height, and the summit of what remained, showed
rough and jagged against the calm summer sky.
Forth from the hotel, from fifty houses in the village of Queenstown,
from the farmhouses in the neighborhood, and the military barracks,
rushed men, women, children, and half stupefied, wondering soldiers-
all struggling and panting up the rugged heights towards the scene of
the explosion.
Vain were all attempts to paint the looks of astonishment and hor-
ror depicted on-the faces of all, as group after group, and singly,.nervous
and out of breath, they gained the height, and stood there speechless,
amid the wide-scattered fragments of the ruined monument.
Thenthere burst forth a whirlwind of maledictions, and cries of rage,
mingled with flerce threats of speedy vengeance, as a soldier bearing a
lantern, approached the crowd, and held up a piece of white pasteboard,
which he had found suspended to a tree near the monument, and which
bore, in flaming capitals of fiery red, the words-
"BEN LETS, THE BRAVO."
Consternation and indignation, before unbounded, now became terror
and rage superlative. All felt that so long as the terrible Bravo was
at large in their midst, there was noisecuritigfor-life or property. This

S

TUE LAKE BRAVO        -   ,J
last atrocity spoke in language that carried conviction to the hearts of
all, that Ben Letts dared tq do anything; and before morning's dawn,
five hundred men, who had before taken no interest in his capture,
joined the chase, and swore to hunt the miscreant to the death:
The reward for his apprehension had been doubled, and the hue and
cry went on with unremitting zeal, when the intelligence of a .new atro-
city, committed by the desperado, ran like wild-fire along the fra4tger.
It was nothing less than burning of the Welland Canal.
Some fifteen miles from Lake Erie, the canal which connects the
two lakes is carried across the Welland River in a vast structure, 9f
sufficient capacity to admit the largest vessels navigating the: canal.,
About midnight, a week after the monument was blown up, this im-
mense frame-work of massive pine timber, forming a perfect web-work
of posts and braces, joists and huge girders extending from shore to
shore, was discovered to be on fire in a dozen plaes.,
In less than one hour, with a crash like that of an earthquake, more
than two hundred feet in the middle of the acqeuduct instantly gave
way,-pouring from either side of the broken space, the whole volume
of water contained in the burned off canal, down two artificial cascades.
The damage done by this daring act of incendiarism was incalculable,.
Those who had witnessed the destruction of the'acqueduct were about
to retire, when, the faint gleam of some white object on the walls of a
deserted hut that stdod near the western extremity of the structure,
caught=the eyes of several of the party ; and on a closerinspection, it
proved to be another of the Bravo's cards. Where ten men had before-
been engaged in the .ravo hunt, there were now a hundred, each and
all of whom had sworn his death.
Ten days longer, and there came a thrilling rumor from Toronto,
of another act committed by the Bravo, in that city, more fiendish in
its nature than anything he had yet accomplished.
A beautiful armed schooner in the harbor had been blown up by a
torpedo, with a tremendous explosion that hurled a hundred human be-
ings to destruction, and nothing remained save a few shattered spars-
and, fastened to one of the buoys near where the schooner had been an
chored, another of those dreadful cards, bearing the name of-
f"-BEN LETTS, THE BRAVO."
Not the most remote clue to the secret hiding place of the reckless
outlaw could be found ; and that light, ten thousand men and women
trembled in abject terror, lest the next fell swoop of the demon Bravo
should crush themselves.
One of these had just cause to tremble. It was the lawyer-spy,
Oliver Shephard, whom we have so long lost sight of.
He was in Toronto at the time, and that evening, as he returned to
his room after a short walk, he found a sealed note upon his table, and
hastily breaking it open, he read-
"Vile wretch!   You are marked as the next victim of the BRAvo's
vengeance I"
Quivering with terror, as though the assassin's knife was already at
his throat, Oliver Shephard left the hotel with all his luggage, and in
less than half an hour he was on board a steamer bound for Rochester.

p-


iia         1THE EMPFtESS$ OF T1*E ISLtES sN

CHAPTER XXVII.
THB LAWYER'S CONFIDANT--A DAY AT HOCHESTER--THE ACCoMPLCE-.,
ABDUCTION OF THE SPY-A NIGHT AT THE CAVE,
I an'ALf adhere to Ohaucer'ss rule as nearly as possible, and tell this
portion of my story as it Was told to me.
There were but few passengers on board the steamer in which Oliver
Shephard took passage,-and as it was a beautiful evening, and the water
perfectly smooth, most of these had assembled on the upper deck, where
sociability and good humor prevailed, each one seeming intent on en-
enjoying himself, and contributing to the general fund of amusement.
Oliver Shephard had remained for more than- an hour, seated apart
from the others, without passing a word with any person, but all the
time closely observing a very genteel and very fashionably-dressed
young man, who appeared to know everybody, and something of every-
thing. The very first moment that Shephard's eyes rested, upon the
handsome, careless young stranger, his heart warmed towards him--if
a thing so cold and stony as his vile heart could warm-and he felt that'
of all others he- was the very person he would choose for a confidant.
The mysterious infatuation grew stronger upon -him, until at length,.
when nearly all the passengers had retired for the night, he approached
the stranger, and sought to engage him in conversation-.
" Nay, you flatter me, sir," replied the young man, stepping back and
bowing to the lawyer as gracefully as another Chesterfield ; " never-
theless, I feel myself highly honored by your compliment."
" Good evening, sir," said' the lawyer, extending his hand, which the
other shook cordially. "I have never in my life," continued Shephard,
"felt so very much interested in the conversatioir of any person, as I
have by your remarks this evening.'7
a I had not intended my remarks as a mere compliment,,sir ; on the
- contrary, I never was in more real 'earnest in my life," rejoined Shep-
hard ; " and if you are not disposed to retire, might I be gratified with
the honor of your company for an hour or so longer ?'
"I am at your service, sir, and if my wild, rattle-brained conversation
can interest you, I shall be most 'happy of your companionship during
the whole night if you choose, for I have not the least disposition sleep.
" But I am a much better listener than talker, sir, and s "all be
delighted to learn many things of which I am ignorant, from y urself."
" How well I have judged him-what an admirable confidant," said
the lawyer mentally, as he again grasped the young stranger's hand.
" May I be permitted to know the name of my new acquaintance?"
asked Shephard, in his blandest tone.-'
".Most assuredly,"- replied the young man, promptly.  " It is but
just that aequaintances should know each other. 1 apn a southerner ;
but that I need scarcely tell you, since my very appearance speaks my
origin. You may perhaps have heard of Senator Berrian, of Georgia ?"
" I have met him twice in my life," said Shephard, eagerly. "And so
you are a son of the distinguished senator?  I might have known it
without asking a question. I think you greatly resemble your parent.
"Many persons have told me that I-am the picture of what my father

was at my age. Buat I trust I may be permitted to know more defi-
nitely the---"
" Ah, excuse me, Mr. Berrian," interrupted Shephard ;" I had for-
gotten myself. My name is Oliver Shephard, a member of the Mid-
land District Bar. I have been several times to Washington on business
connected with the government, and it was there I met your father."
-The young stranger whom Oliver Shephard has thus unwittingly
introduced to himself and us at the same time, was a young man per-
haps twenty-five year old, rather below the medium stature, but well
formed, and possessed, as the lawyer thought, the handsomest features
he had ever seen. His skin was very dark, and his hair, whiskers, and
glossy-moustache, told of his birth-place in a genial clime.
This young southerner, to whom the lawyer had taken so sudden and
strange a fancy, appeared to be equally prepossessed-towards the Cana-
dian lawyer ; for twelve-one-two o'clock went by, and they still were
there upon deck, engaged in seemingly a most confidental conversation.
I will, give the substance of the important part of Oliver Shephard's
confidential communications to his young friend.
He commenced with the part he had acted, in bringing about the
unfortunate separation between the young Earl of Dalhousie and his
beautiful wife ; although the fact that at that time he -had borne the
name of Richard Delamere, he did not 'disclose.
Then he went on in detail, giving the particulars of his connection
with Col. Moody, up to the time that Shephard left the colonel in the
little garden, meditating the -death of his vile accomplice in crime.
He then related the circumstances of his having been disappointed in
his search after Edith Letts-of two unsuccessful attempts that Col.
Moody had procured to be made to assassinate him--and how he had
at length extorted from the colonel twenty thousand pounds which had
once been the property of Benjamin Letts, and which he had with him
on board the boat, all in good English gold ; and finally, he told how
he had been frightened that evening by the Bravo's terrible threat, and
had left Canada in great haste, to avoid the desperado's vengeance.
When he had communicated everything, he paused a few moments,
and then inquired of his- companion what course he would advise him to
pursue, and if he thought it prudent for him to remain at Rochester?
Unhesitatingly, the warm-hearted young southerner replied-
"Come'with me, sir, to my home in the sunny south. You will be
delighted with the country and the people ; and I assure you, you
shall be right welcome among us. As for your remaining in Rochester,
I consider it imprudent in the extreme. If this Letts is the desperate
character that he is represented to be, there will be no safety in re-
maining within five hundred miles of the Canadian frontiers. I shall
be detained in Rochester a short time on business, and then together
we will depart, if you will, for my home."
Perhaps the young man did not know what a wretch he was inviting
to his southern home, and yet you would think that he should have
known, after listening to the villain's story. But then Oliver Shephard
had only-shown one side of the mirror.
With many thanks on the part of the lawyer, at a late hour they
retired to their berths.

i
G

TXLIE LAKE BRAVO.           119


12           THE EMPRESS OF TIE. ISLES; OR,
It was scarcely sunrise when the steamer reached her wharf, some
four miles below Rochester, and in less than an hour thereafter, Oliver
Shpphard and his young southern. friend had entered their names at
one of the first hotels in the city.
After breakfast, they took a stroll together through the town, and
then, as they drew near the hotel, after two hours' ramble, young Ber-
rian took leave of his compapion, saying he had some business which
would occupy him through the d.y, but promised to meet his friend
again at an early hour in the evening.
Berrian turned into a narrow, obscure;street, which he traversed with
rapid 'strides for more than a quarter of a mile, until he came to a low,
shabby-looking old building, which, from the uncouth characters over
its entrance, purported to be a grocery and liquor store. He entered,
and within three gninutes was engaged in writing a note, at a small
desk in the'back part of the room, while a stout,-repulsive-looking man,
with huge black whiskers and black flashing eyes, stood near him, with
outstretched hand, as if waiting for the written paper.-
"1Oliver Shephard, Eagle Hotel," read the black-whiskered stranger,
as he took .the sealed note from Berrian. "Very well, sir, he shall
have this within ten minutes. My boy here is acquainted with one of
the waiters, and five dollars to each of them will keep their mouths
close, so no one will know where this comes from."
The note was put into the hands of a small boy, with full instructions
for its delivery, and then a low, earnest conversation took place be-
tween Berrian and his companion, only the latter portion of which was
loud enough to be overheard--
"Now, remember, Kit, the carriage is to be at the door at nine."
#        "Ay, ay, sir," replies Kit, or, as we may as well know him at once-
Christopher Caswell, one of the St. Lawrence prisoners, who had been
set at liberty at Albany only about two months before.
" Ay, ay, I shall be on the box with the driver, and we will be there
to a minute.
"And, Kit, be sure now to have our two fellows, Jake and Reub, on
the spot by dark. Remember, if we fail, you lose your two thousand'
dollars, and the others their one thousand each."
"Never fear, Cap'n, the boys'll be there by sundown, and I'll be at
the door precisely at nine. There's no such thing as fail."
"Well, good day, Kit."
Good day Cap'n ;" and the young southerner, Mr. Berrian, whom
we begin to suspect is somebody else, left the apartment.
"1My God ! Mr. Berrian, look at this.1" almost screamed Oliver
Shephard, as he met his friend in the hall, on his return to the hotel
about sundown. "Tell me, what shall I do7  He is here I" And the
frightened, wretched man thrust a note into Berrian's hand, informing
him, at the same time, that he had received it within twenty minutes
after he returned to the hotel, and he had been waiting in agony all
day for -him to return.
Berrian-unfolded the crushed note, and read-
"So, Oliver Shephard, you thought to baffle me, by leaving Toronto 7
Ha! iia! ha !   Vile, d--d villain, the -avenger is on your track !
Your hour'approaches. Escape you cannot.        BEN LETTS."

THE.LAKE BRAVOS                       121
For full five minutes after he had read the note, Berrian stood there
in silence, and then, as if a-sudden idea had entered his brain, he said :
" I'l tell you, my friend, I have an acquaintance about five miles out
of the city, at whose house you will be safe. Now, you- settle our bill
and remak carelessly, as you do so, that we start for Auburn to-night
in a private carriage. That will put the desperado off the track, you
see ; and in the mean time I'll step into a livery stable and order a
carriage to be at the door at nine o'clock.",
Berrian left the hotel, and Shephard, after having paid their bill,
retired to his room and locked himself in, to await his friend's return.
As the city bells tolled the hour of nine, a close carriage drove up
to the door of-the Eagle Hotel, and in, five minutes the two friends,
with all of Shephard's luggage, were on board, and away dashed the
spirited horses toward the residence of Berrian's counrty friend.
The northern limits of the city were soon left behind, and on rolled
-the carriage, along down the western bank of the Genesee, till it came
to a dark, gloomy place in the road about a mile below the falls, when
ttie horses suddenly stopped, and the carriage door was wrenched open,
when Berrian, seizing his coinpanidn by the throat, hurled him back-
wards, with a giant's strength, through the open door, into the arms of
three masked ruffians.
" Quick! Kit, the gag and hood," he shouted, as he leaped out after
his victim.
" Ay, ay, Cap'n, we've got the stopper on. his jawing tackle. He
won't pipe so loud as a dumb pig now."
"Here, Rueb, you help Sam off, and down to the caveqwith the lug-
gage--we three, the Cap'n, Jake and I, can manage the gentleman well
enough. Or, Jake, you may as well help the boys, I'll make the d-d
land-shark walk ; and if he undertakes to give me the slip, d-n me if
I don't feel around his throat with this ere knife.- Come, travel, Mr.
Shephard."
Between Berrian and the stalwart Kit Caswell, each grasping an arm,
the blindfolded and gagged captive was led frst down a winding intricate
path, and then up another, until at length the whole party-Berrian
and Kit with their prisoner, and the three other ruffians, each bearing
a heavy trunk--stood on the little plateau in front of the Hermit's
Cave there at Hanford's Landing.
Kit Caswell produced a dark lantern and entered the cave, followed
by the captive, who was closely followed by Berrian. Then the three
men with the trunks went in, and ere three minutes were passed, they
all stood within that lofty chamber, opce inhabited by the Hermit.
The hood was removed from the prisoner's head, the gag from his
mouth, and at the same moment Berrian removed his hat, tore away
his brown, glossy wig, whiskers, and moustache, and the base miscreant,
Oliver Shephard, stood there in the presence of his most deadly enemy
-Ben Letus--THE LAKE BRAVO.


THE EMPRESS OF THE ISLES; ORS

CHAPTER XXVIII.

TIE SUMMONS--THE HIDDEN CASKET-THE MAIDENS TALfSMAN-THE
VEILED PICTURE-RETRIBUTION-A DEED OF HORROR.
BuT a few days had passed since the grand coronation fete occurred,
and preparations were being made at the house of Bill Johnson for the
marriage of the young Empress of the Isles, to her long betrothed repub-
lican consort, Stanly Alwyn.
It was not yet sunrise on the morning before the day on which the
ceremony was to take place, that a rough, sailor looking man arrived at
the home of the smuggler, with a letter for Johnson himself, which the
sailor informed him had been written on the day previous.
Johnson broke the seal, and read as follows:
DEAR SiR: If the wind is fresh and fair when you receive this, embark
at once with your daughter Kate, my sister, Stanly, and Steve Marvell,
for the Hermit's Cave. If the wind should not be favorable, take the
steamer, which will be at Clayton about noon, on her way up from
Ogdensburgh. But either way, come to the cave with all possible
despatch.                                         BEN LETTS.
The contents of the letter were communicated to the family, and after
a moment's consultation, it was decided to postpone the marriage, and
obey the somewhat mysterious summons immediately.
Fortunately the wind was favorable, and within an hour after the
letter was received, all the persons invited were on board the yacht.
Early the following morning, she ranged up alongside the old wharf
at Hanford's Landing, and her passengers, as they stepped ashore, were
welcomed by the Bravo, who stood there on the wharf waiting to receive
them; and soon the whole party stood in the grand chamber of the
cave, which was brilliantly lighted up, and furnished exactly.as it had
been during Edith's residence there, and she appeared delighted at once
more visiting her old home. Kate was in raptures, and whispered to
Stanly that she should be so happy to live there with him, away from
the whole world. But she was suddenly interrupted by Letts.
" I believe," he said, in a grave and measured tone, " that we are all
acquainted with the circumstances attending the last moments 'of him
who was formerly the occupant of this cave-I mean the Earl of Dal-
housie. It would seem that he wished to communicate some important
secret to his son, but the cold hand of death was upon him, and you, too,
who kneeled with me beside him, will remember with what emphasis he
ejaculated, in spasmodic sentences, his last dying words-'A secret-the
cave-Edith-' and his voice was hushed for ever. And now, my sis-
ter," the Bravo continued, $,will you show your friend---.  .
" Ay, will I, my brother," exclaimed Edith eagerly, interrupting
Letts ; and then taking one of the lamps from the table, she beckoned
Stanly, Johnson, and her brother, to follow, and left the apartment.
Without a moment's hesitation, she entered the little chamber which
had formerly been used by the Hermit as his dormitory, and requesting
her brother and Johnson to remove the heavy couch from the corner
in which it stood, she knelt upon the rough, cold stones beneath where

1
4

-122

the rude bedstead had been standing, and for two minutes appeared to
be engaged in an earnest search for some object.
Suddenly she sprang to her feet with a quick cry of joy, and stamped
upon the rock where she had just been kneeling.
But she seemed to be disappointed, for after having repeatedly
stamped with her tiny feet on the craggy rocks, she caught the giant
old smuggler by the arm, dragged him to the spot, and almost screamed
to him to stamp.
He obeyed ; and as his heel crushed down, almost withe the force of
a sledge-hammer, up from out the floor of rough, solid masonry flew a
great, massive, uncouth-looking rock, exposing a cavity wide enough to
admit the passage of a man.
Quick as thought Edith sprang down into the pit, lamp in hand, and
called her brother and Johnson to follow., They obeyed ; and the
next instant they stood'in a little apartment not more than eight feet
- square, and in height barely sufficient to admit of the smuggler's stand-
ing erect.
On one side of the miniature cave there were placed against the wall
three rough-looking boxes or chests, strongly bound with iron. Edith
knelt before one of these chests, and drawing a key from her bosom, she
unlocked it, and drew forth from amid 'parchments and papers, with
which it was more than half filled, a casket of small wood, and hooped
with silver. Then opening the other two chests, she exhibited to the
astonished eyes of her brother and the smuggler, a vast quantity bf gold
and silver coin, and a profusion of rich plate that might have vied with
with that of Buckingham Palace itself.
After a few moments, Edith re-locked the boxes, and taking up the
casket, she left the cell, and with a cry of infantile satisfaction, she
placed the treasure in the bands of Stanly Alwyn.
Returned to the great chamber, Stanly placed the casket on the
table, and receiving the key from Edith, he prepared to open it.--but
before doing so, he addressed a few words to his companions.
" My friends," said he, "you are all acquainted with as much of my
history as I am myself informed of. And now, whatever revelations
may be made by the opening of this box, belongs as much to my friends
as to myself. From you I have no secret--come."
They gathered around the table-the mysterious casket was unlocked.
Within it were many papers, which being read, confirmed the dying
words of the Hermit--that he was the rightful Earl of Dalhousie; and
then there were the original letters patent, dated 1633, and under the
seal and signature of Scotland's Sovereign, creating Stanly Alwyn, of
Mid-Lothian, Earl and Marquis of Dalhousie, in the peerage of Scot-
land.  There were-jewels of rare value, too; and last of all, Stanley
drew forth the massive golden seal of the family, with the arms and
crest of the Dalhousies engraved upon its emerald setting.
After Stanley had read the last paper aloud, and deposited every
thing in the casket as he had found it, Letts, without a word, withdrew
from the chamber, and when he returned, after an absence of a few
minutes, the whole group were struck dumb with wonder and surprise.
Bound and closely guarded between two courageous men, they beheld:
-Kate Johnson, the ruffian who had once attempted to carry her off from

,)

THE LAKE BRAVO,.


THE EMPRESS OF. THE. ISLES;j OR,

Linda's Island.--Steve Marvell, the disguised sailor whom he had met
there at dusk in the cottage, grounds of that Eden home in Canada--
Stanly Alwyn and Bill Johnson, the vile wretch on whose head they
had sworn, as they kneeled there in the old wind-mill beside the dying
Hermit, to wreak a most terrible vengeance-Edith Letts, upon the
fiendish accomplice of her libertine betrayer.
For five long minutes, Oiver Shephard stood there, cringing like a
beaten cur, before that wondering group, when the chilly silence. was
broken by a light bound of Edith, who flew to the mysterious -veiled
picture hanging upon the wall, tore away the black screen, and there
looked down upon the bewildered group a face of such angelic beauty
that it seemed as though the Holy Mary herself, radiant with the bright
halo of eternal glory, looked forth from the canvas and smiled a heavenly
welcome to the enraptured gazers.
"Linda, the Recluse 1" shouted the stalwart old Smuggler.
' My mother I" exclaimed Stanly, as with outstretched arms he sprang
forward and fell on his knees before the glorious picture.
"The murdered victim of this d--d miscieant I" hissed the fierce
Bravo, as with his clenched fist he struck the pale, trembling wretch in
the face, and-dashed him to the earth.
"Oh, God ! I thank thee !" spoke Edith Letts, as she clasped her
forehead with both hands, and knelt before the unveiled picture.
When Edith arose again, there were no longer any traces of the wild
insanity in her eyes or features. The unveiling of that mysterious face,
and the calm, holy features, had acted as a magic talisman. Edith-was
free from her maniac thraldom.       -a
Twenty-four hours later, the beautiful yacht sailed from the old land-
ing, on her return .to Clayton, with all the party that had so recently
left the smuggler's home in her, again on board..
In the cabinwere to be seen the three rough iron-hooped boxes which
we had a glimpse at'there in the subterranean cell, and a single glance,
down into the schooner's hold will satisfy us that the cave has been
stripped of all its furniture.
Leaving .the gallant little craft to pursue her homeward course, let us-
re-enter the cavern.
As we gain the inner cave,.we behold it bare and desolate, dimly.
illumined by a single lamp; that lamp is grasped by the terrible Lake
Bravo} who scowls a horrid frown of wild, demoniac hate.
"Vengeance! retribution !" he muttered, and then, with another
fiendish glare around the vacant space, he strides from the chamber, and
passes on through a narrow, tortuous way, which we have never trav-
ersed; but we will follow him.       -
He at length enters a monstrous arch, whose Cimmerian blackness is
so intense, that the Bravo's lamp sheds only a faint halo about his
head; and as we follow him within its chilling precincts, we hear the
rushing sound of a subterranean torrent, which seems to be rushing
around in a vast circular whirlpool, the brink of which is at our very
feet.
There is an articulate moan, a quick agonized exclamation, and the
Bravo'stops--lowers-the lamp, and-.-
Merciful God I Look there!               S

124

On the very edge of the black chasm lays a human being, stretched
upon a heavy plank, with his legs and arms firmly secured to the tim-
ber. It is-yes, as the Bravo holds the light to his face, We recognize
the bound wretch: it is Oliver Shehhard
But, 0 Heaven ! how changed rom the burly'ruffian or the hypo-
critical villain that, under other circumstances, we have seen him.
Bound there, upon that plank, he writhes his body ir the most dread-
ful contortions, while his face-God, in mercy, spare us from ever look-
ing upon another such a sight !
You see his eyes glaring wildly, blod-shot, and protriiding from their
sockets-; his features pinched and blue, as if Death had already. laicPhis
cold, icy hand upon his victim; his tongue-in merey to your reason,
look but once, lest the second glance drives you mad.
His lips are drawn spasmodically back, displaying his teeth, now tinged
with blood from his bitten tongue, to their very base. -
Very calmly the Bravo places his lamp upon the ground, and then
in silence he bends over his bound an helpless victih, with a grim, fero-
cious smile upon his features.
-  0, mercy ! mercy I Spare -me 0.O do not murder-kill-torture
me in this dark, horrid place !" again pleads the frantic wretch, as if he-
hoped still to move the Bravo'sobdurate heart to some feeling of pity.
"  ! Benjamin Letts ; if you are human, if a heart that ever knew
one spark of pity beats within your breast, do not kill me here! !Spare
me, and I will give you gold-all-every-"
" Ha ! ha ! ha !" rings out a wild peal of demoniac laughter.
" Gold, Oliver Sheephaid ! 1 hate your gold already. But, you
plead most eloquently. Pity it is that you bad not defended me on
my trial at Kingston. I should not now be an outlaw--a desperate
Bravo. Pity ! That word sounds oddly, coming from your lips, Oliver
Shephard. Pity ! My gentle sister begged pity. Did she find it ?"
As if it had been but a child's toy-that ponderous plank and its
burden--the Bravo lifts it from the ground, and then, as a shrill scream,
like the last despairing yell of the d---d, rings out in' the gloom, he
hurls the shrieking wretch, with a giant's strength, down into the black
abyss-from whence, for ten long minute', screams and frantic cries
come ringing up, as the plank-borne victim goes whirling round, and
then all is still, The Bravo's oath and Hermit's vengeance have been
accomplished.
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE BRAvo's MISTAKE-THE DOOM AND INCREDIBLE ESOAPE--THE LIB-
ERTINE'S REWARD-
A WEEK, or it may be ten days, not more than that, after that fearful
tragedy was enacted there in -the cave, the Great Britain, one of the
noblest steamers on Lake Ontario, was alongside of her wharf in the
harbor of Oswego. It was a rainy, disagreeable afternoon, and few
people were abroad in the storm, except those who had just arrived
from  Kingston in the steamer, and other passengers who were. to
embark her for Toronto.

*AHE LAKE BRAVO.

195


THE EMPRESS OF THE ISLES; OR,

Cloaks, umbrellas and carriages seemed to be in special demand ;
but there was one person who seemed careless of all these conveniencies,
and came on board the boat, his clothes dripping with water, and a
great hair-covered trunk on his, shoulder, which he deposited in a snug
little place under the stairs leading to the upper deck ; and then, after
shaking the " wet" from his garments like a genuine water-dog, he
looked around among the fifty genteel passengers who were standing
there in front of the ladies' cabin, as if in search of some familiar face
whom he expected to meet.
"1Who are you looking for, Pat ?" asked a red-faced, good-looking
young man, with a sparkle of fun in his eyes, and a peculiar expression
indicative of good humor and a love of good liquor.
It was but little wonder that he addressed the new comer as " Pat,
for a more perfect specimen of a recently-imported Limerick Irishman,
no one ever saw.
" More power to yer boner ; sure it's Misther Mac Griggor that I'd
be afther findin-more betoken that he tould me there be zent I d'find
him here sure."
"Is Mr. MacGriggor your friend, Pat ?"
" Woora; an bedad he is, God's grace till his soul ! Be the living
powers, didn't he give me five an thirty shillens ? an aint I goin over
till Torot-Tarum---Tar--bad cess till the crooked word intirely-but
I can't spake the letthers at all."
" Toronto, is it you mean ?"
"Arrah, an be the awld wig av de grandfather's cat ! an it's that
intirely, I'm goin over to wrought in the ditch-"
Pat's attention was now arrested by a great, brawny, country-looking
man, apparently more than half drunk, who came along, and happening
to see the Irishman's trunk there, he deliberately eat down on it, and
seemed disposed to enjoy the luxury of a nap.
" Arrah, now be off, an come out o' that, will ye ?" shouted, the
Irishman, as he discovered the trespasser on his property ; and at the
same moment he sprung forward, laying his hand upon the intruder's
shoulder, as if to enforceohis request.
But that move was a fatal mistake of poor Pat's, for the half-drunken
man made a sudden. "grab" at the Irishman's hat of black felt, and
pulled it from his head. . ad it been but the hat, there would have
been but little harm done; but with it came off a genuine Irish wig of
red curly hair, and a pair of unmistakable Irish whiskers; and there,
in the presence of all that company, and among them some seven or
eight who knew him as well as they did themselves, stood unmasked,
Ben Letts, the Bravo.-
In a moment he was surrounded, and without a struggle or 'a word,
ie gave himself up. But just as they were about to take him ashore,
he requested permission to take his trunk with him.
This was granted, and he carried it some distance to an open space,
where he sat it down, and warned all his captors to stand back.
They did so, and after waiting nearly ten minutes, the, trunk ex-
ploded,-with a crash so tremendous that it shook the solid ground,
hurled the frightened lookers-on from their feet, and broke out "the
window-glass all over the town, like the rocking of an earthquake.

126

On. his examination, Letts confessed that it had been his intention
to blow up the steamer, and himself with her.
He was committed to prison, and only four weeks later, received his
trial on the charge of an attempt to blow up the Great Britain, and was
sentenced to seven years' transportation.
Three days after the trial, the sheriff of Oswego county, assisted by
a deputy, started from Oswego with the prisoner, ironed hand and foot,
for the purpose of conveying him to Auburn.
It was past noon when-they set out ; and having now travelled some
twenty miles, and being near the village where they intended to stop
for the night, as quick as thought, Letts struck the sheriff so tremnen-
dous a blow on the head with his heavy manacles, that he felled him
senseless'; and then raising both hands above his head, he brought them
down with a sudden jerk, that sent the handcuffs off from his wrists
with such velocity, that they nearly dashed through the side of. the
carriage. The -next instant he dealt the astonished deputy a blow in
the face that settled him alongside the sheriff, and leaping out, gained
the cover of the forest and escaped.
It was .known afterwards, that Letts had small, delicate hands, and
unusually large wrists, which enabled him to slip off and on a pair of.
handcuffs quite as readily as he could an-easy glove. But the mystery
of his escape that evening, after he got clear of the coach, was never
explained.
One afternoon, ten days perhaps after this affair occurred, Colonel
Henry Moody, who had been for nearly-three months stationed with his
regiment in Montreal, while walking leisurely along down one of the
streets, was suddenly arrested by a hand laid upon his shoulder; and
as he raised his eyes from the pavement, they encountered the figure
and face of his deadliest enemy, Ben Letts.
For a brief space they stood there confronting each other in silence,
and then the Bravo spoke-.
" Henry Moody, I had thought to stab you to the heart, or shoot you
down-like a dog; but my vengeance has been so long delayed that my
hot blood has cooled somewhat; besides they say you are a brave man,
as well as a heartless libertine. Take one of these, sir;" and the Bravo
drew a pair of heavy dueling pistols from the bosom of his coat, one of
which he reached towards the colonel, whose face all the while was pale
as death, and his teeth chattered with coward fear, as if in an ague fit.
Nevertheless, he snatched the weapon, and in an instant he fired at the
Bravo, but in his agitation he missed him.
Like lightning Letts sprang upon him, ana as his fingers grasped his
throat, he hissed in his ear--
"Down, d--d, accursed seducer !-down to hell, with your vile
accomplice !'
The muzzle of his pistol was placed against the colonel's forehead
and discharged.
When the hundreds who had heard those two shots rushed to the
spot, they saw the dead body of Col. Moody, and on his breast, Scured
by a dagger driven home to his heart, was another of those terrible
cards, bearing the name of--BEN LETTS, THE BAvo.B-h-
But Ben Lctts had escaped.           EB~o

THE LAKE BRAVO.

127


THE EXPRESS OF TIDE ISLES; OR,

.-HAPTER       XXC.
THE ISLAND IOME--A SAILOE'S SNUG HARBOR-FINALE.
BACK with me once more, and for the last -time, most patient and'
indulgent reader, to the little island gem.of the St. Lawrence-back to
Linda's Ifland, the most lovely of all that thousand, planted there by
Nature in her first young essay at world-making.  It has become
endeared to me by a thousand associations and fond memories; and I
almost entertain the belief that you too begin to love Linda's Island.  E,
Then you will accompany me once more before we part, on.a visit to
our friends. = It is mid-winter, and we shall not hear the glad songs of
ten thousand summer birds. We :have been so long absent too, that
we have missed the wedding -festiyalof The Empress of the Isles and
Stanly Alwyn. They have been married this four months; but we
shall be just as welcome t4 the fireside of their" Island Home' to-night,
as we should have-been on their bridal eve,
Thank you, for your courtesy; we .are here just as I have finished
alltthose arguments t9 induce you'to come.
Now permit me to. call your attention to that little house- on the
other side of the lakelet.. You see it is an exact model of this, only the
scale has been reduced. It has been built by Stanly Alwyn for his
friend, Steve Marvell, who is the commander of the gallant little yacht,
lying there near her captain's door Let us enter the cottage.
A party here to-night, you think, as' we enter the rich, but neatly
appointed parlor.
" N; ,nlya ew friends, tembera-of the:family, and the good old
minister, Mr. Andrews, looking just a happy asany of them.: It was
he thattuniteLStanly and Kate;in the holy bonds of matrimony.
'Our heroine is seated there on the sofa beside her handsome young
husband, nore lovely if'possible than when she' stood there inall her
royal splendor, the crowned Empress of the sales ,
Edith Letts is seated by the open 'piano, but she 'is not 'playing.
There i a slight shade of sadness upon her madonna-like features. It
is on her brother's account. 'There isnethin g'ofniadnessthere.
Old Bill% the 'gallant, noble-hearted old smuggler and his wife are both I
here, happy inthe almost perfect happinesof the poor-children.
Harrit, thefaister, and-,onee the jealous rival of our heroine, is of the
party also.  She, too, is married., That is her husband-that tall,
handsome man by her:side.. ,She.Will not get jealousiof her sister now.
There has been a few moments of silence, and Stanly's eyes wander
around theapartment- while -their bright glances speak eloquently of
the heart's happiness.
"Dear Stanly, 'do you not songetinies :regret the loss of your proud
Earldom, and those old ancestral halls there in Mid-Lothian 2"
"Hold your tongue, Kate; I never had- them to lose. And am I
not gratcr than -an earl-the- ;ing Cpzsot 'of the Empress of the
THE ENDS


  
             
         
       
   
