
    ----CITATION----
        Randolph, Paschal Beverly, (1825-1874). The Wonderful Story of Ravalette ; also, Tom Clark and His Wife : Their Double Dreams and the Curious Things That Befell Them Therein, or, The Rosicrucian's Story .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7538
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The wonderful story of Ravalette ; also, Tom Clark and his wife : their double dreams and the curious things that befell them therein, or, The Rosicrucian's story 
            
               0

0

THE

. WONDERFUL
STORY OF RAVALETTE.
ALSO,
TOM CLARK AND HIS WIFE,
THEIR DOUBLE DREAMS AND THE CURIOUS THINGS THA'I BEFELL THEM THEREIN ;
OR,
THE ROSICRUCJAN'S STORY.
BY DR. P..B. RANDOLPH,
"THE DUMAS OF AMERICA,"
AUTHOR OF " WAA, GU-MAH," " PRE-ADAMITE MAN," "DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD,
"IT ISN'T ALL RIGHT," " THE UNVEILING OF SPIRITISM," "THE GRAND
SECRET," "HUMAN LOVE-A PHYSICAL SUBSTANCE,"
ETC., ETC., ETC.
"The fictions of genius are often the vehicles of the sublitnest verities, and its flashes
often open new regions of thought, and throw new light on the mysteries of our being."--
CHANNING.
NEW YORK:
SINCLAIR TOUSEY, 121 NASSAU STREET.
1863.

G
i
Y
i
i
{ L  L
J
1x Z
P    _

3 .
4
r      }
t
3
t
t
-mot
Ay
i axe    .
i ,
4 .
kr
rr Y

.a
t,
j)
r
3      '


ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863, by
P. B RANDOLPH,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern
District of New York.

INTRODUCTORY.
IN giving what follows to the world, no one can be
more alive to the fact that this is the latter half of
the, nineteenth century, and that the present is
emphatically the era of the grandest Utilitarianism,
Revolution, Matter-of Fact, and Doubt that the world
ever knew, than is the editor of the following extraor-
dinary tale. He has no apologies to make for offer-
ing it-no excuses, even as a novelist, for departing
from the beaten track of "War, Love, Murder, and
Revenge," "Politics, Passion, and Prussic acid,"
which constitute the staple of the modern novel.
Disliking all long exordia, we propose to enter
at once upon the work before us, by inquiring: Is
there such a thing as real magic-not the ordinary,
chemical, angbidextral jugglery, that " passes current
among the vulgar as magic-but the real old myste-
rious thing, whereof we read in old black-letter
tomes?
Utterly repudiating the pretensions of modern

4

e

.t
y


IV                INTRODUCTORY.                                            hTODC0YV

charlatans, and conscienceless impostors, who deal in'
"spirit photographs," and utter misty phrases about
"Life in the Spheres," " Gloria," and "Jubilo," to-
gether with schemes to reform the world-namely,
by means of Indiana     divorces, improved   "Lie-
ceums," " Air-lying dispatches," via caput Assino-
rum, and much other
"Canting, radical jabber and jaw,.
'Bout Mornia and Hornia, and Starnos and 'Cor,
Hocus and pocus, and nong-tong-paw;
All stupid crams, not worth a straw."
Not because there are no spirits, for one case in a
million of reported spectral phenomena, may be true,
but all are totally unreliable-that is, they lie-and
the person who places the least confidence in them in
one thousand instances, is sure to be deceived nine
hundred and ninety-nine times, and only reach ap-
proximate truth and fact in the thousandth.
Spiritualism is yet the great non sequitur of the
age, so far as the vast majority of mankind is con-
cerned-for while one portion of its phenomena may
be really spiritual, the remaining nine hundred and
ninety-nine portions are referable to something else
than human ghosts. Spiritualism has done no good
whatever, save in that it has-called attention to new
directions, thereby stimulating the spirit of inquiry ;

bat in itself it is yet far from being among the
certainties.
I here disavow all intention to deride true spirit
phenomena, if such there be; nor do I question the
transmundane life of man-for the belief in immor-
tality is a part of my very being-but, while ignor-
ing the claims, and deriding the absurd pretensions
of the vast majority of modern Eolists and self-
styled mediums, I repeat the question: Is there any
positive means or ways whereby even a favored few
can penetrate the mysterious veil that hangs like an
iron pall between the great human multitude and the
infinitely greater BEYOND?2 Is it possible to break
through the awful barrier-to glimpse through the
Night-Curtain that screens and shrouds us from the
Phantom-World ?-if such there be.
"Deep the gulph that hides the dead-
Long and dark the way they tread."
Can we know it? Can we by any possibility scan
its secrets ? Nor are we alone in propounding ques-
tions such as these ; for every intelligent person, at
some period or other, puts them to himself and
neighbor, but, in the majority of cases, vainly. The
writer hereof, like the great mass of people, has often
propounded these queries, the result being a con-

YNThOD UOTORY.             jr'

r
{
t
is
i"
_,
i
I     %
i'.
,:
'
J   (j
[',,
t,
.
t
7
'    (} _
k.
'.'


5  }
p
k
5   ii
l 1' FS
A k
{
x
i
b
,i
r
i
F
1
i-
Y     i
i
I
Y ;
t
i
3
S
1     y
F
I
i
a
{      f
4     i
}t
t
i
I       5       _
{7jiill
r!

INTRODUCTORY.

firmed and indurated scepticism-which scepticism
was, almost ruthlessly, swept away by the extraordi-
nary series of events about to be recorded in these
pages.

THE WONDERFUL STORY OF RAVALETTE.

BOOK I.

CHAPTER I.
THE STRANGE MAN.
In the most high and palmy days of Rome,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
The graves stood tenantlees, and the sheeted dead
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets."
AND he sat him down wearily by the side of the road.
Wearily, for he had journeyed far that day. He was foot-
sore, and his bodily powers were nearly exhausted by reason
of the want and privation he had undergone. His looks
were haggard, and a pathetic pall, gloomy and tearful, hung
and floated around him, invisible to, but sensibly felt by, all
who lingered near, or gazed upon him. A sorrowful man
was he.
And as he sat there by the roadside, he leaned his head
upon the staff which he held in his hand ; and as he bowed
him down, the great salt tears gushed from between his fin-
gers, and watered the ground at his feet. In other days the
I

vi

1
{
s
1  ,
t
!
i
is-
L
jr r
tt !!
1 ii
F
;f
5j-
f((i'
(T
3
'
3
fj
t/,
S

P


8

RAVALETTE.

cypress, plant of sorrow, sprung up there, and throve in sad
and mournful beauty, as if to mark and guard the spot
whereon the strong man had lifted up his voice and wept
aloud--,once upon a time.
This was many years ago; and this was the occasion on
which I became acquainted with the personage who figures
so remarkably in this volume.*  At that time the writer
practically accepted, but mentally disbelieved, all t ie li-
gious and psychologic faiths of Christendom ; and, had an
man even hinted at certain mysterious possibilities that have
since then been verified and demonstrated, I should most
certainly have laughed in his face, and have reckoned him
up as a first-class fool or idiot. Things have changed since
then.
He was a man of middle height, was neither stout nor
slender, but, when in full flesh, was a happy medium between
the two. His head and brain were large, and, from certain
peculiarities of form, really much more massive than they,
appeared. The skull was long and narrow at the base,
especially about the ears ; but above that line the brain was
deep, broad and high., indicating great powers of endurance,
with but moderate physical force, it being clearly apparent
that the mental structure sustained itself to a great degree
at the expense of the muscles, his nervous system, as in all
such organizations, being morbidly acute and sensitive.
There was, naturally or organically, nothing about him either
* The same personage is the principal character in the romance of "Dhoula
Bel, or the Magic Globe," which will ere long be published.

PORTRAIT OF THE MAN.          9

coarse, brutal, low or vulgar, and if, in the race of life, he
exhibited any of those bad qualities, it was attributable to
the rough cii-cumstances attendant upon him, and the treat-
ment he received from the world. By nature he was open,
frank, benevolent and generous to a fault, and of these traits
men availed themselves to his sorrow. With abundant
capacity to successfully grapple with the most profound and
abstruse questions of philosophy or metaphysics, yet this man
was totally incompetent to conduct matters of the least busi-
ness, requiring even a very moderate financial ability., Such
are nature's contradictions, such her law of compensation.
As a consequence, this man, with abilities universally con-
ceded to be good, was the ready victim of the first plausible
knave that came along, from, the "friend " who borrowed
half his cash, and undertook to invest the balance--and
kept the whole, to the printer of his books, who swindled
him of both time and money.
His complexion was tawny, resembling that of the Arab
children of Beyroot and Damascus. The shape and set of
the chin, jaws and lips, were indicative rather of power than
force. The mouth, in its slightly protruding upper lip, and
two small ridges at the corners, betokened executive ability,
passion, courage, affection, humor, firmness and decision.
The cheeks were slightly sunken, indicating care and trou-
ble, while the cheek-bones, being somewhat high and broad,
betrayed his aboriginal ancestry, as did also his general
beardlessness, for, save a tuft beneath the chin of jet black
silky hair, and a thin and light mustache, he could lay no

1*


I

10

.uVALETTE.

claim to hirsute distinction. His nose, which had been
broken by a fall when a child, was neither large nor small,
and as a simple feature, was in no respect remarkable ; but
taken with the other features, was most decidedly so, for
when under the influence of passion, excitement or emotion,
there was an indescribable something about the ale and
nostrils that told you that a volcano slumbered in that man's
brain and heart, only it required a touch, a vent, in the
right direction, to wake its fires and cause it to blaze forth
vehemently, transforming him in an instant from a passive,
uncomplaining man, into the embodiment of virtuous cham-
pionship of the cause that was true, or into a demon of
hatred and vindictive fury. The good prevailed : for the
evil spasm was ever a spasm only-save in a very few
marked cases, where he had suffered wrongs, deep and griev-
ous; at the. hands of men whose meanness and duplicity
toward himself he only discovered when they had gained
their points and ruined him. These men he hated-and yet
that word does not convey the true idea. His feeling was
not vindictive, but was a craving for, and determination to
exact justice for his wrongs. This satisfied, his ill will'died
on the instant. His eyes, or rather eye-for one was nearly
lost from an accident-was a deep, dark hazel, and such as
people are in the habit of describing as jet black. It shone,
with a lustre peculiar, and strangely magnetic when he let
his soul go forth upon winged words from the rostrum, for
he, had been a public speaker in his time, and had won no
small degree of fame on that field.

PRE-EXISTENCE.

I^

Once seen and heard, this man was one whom it was
impossible ever to forget, so different was he from all other
men, and so marked and peculiar were his characteristics.
Such, in brief, were the externals of the person to whom
the reader is here introduced.
A very singular man was he-the Rosicrucian--I knew
him well. Many an hour, subsequent to that in which he is
here introduced, have we sat together beneath the grateful
shade of some glorious old elm on the green, flower banks
of Connecticut's silver stream, and under some towering
dome palm beside the bosom of still older Nilus, in the
hoary land of the Pharaohs, of magic and of myth, he all
the while pouring into my ear strange, very strange legends
indeed-legends of Time and the other side of Time-all of
which my thirsty soul drank in as the sun-parched earth
drinks in the grateful showers, or the sands of Zin the tears
of weeping clouds. And these tales, these legends put to
shame the wildest fictions of Germany and the terror-
haunted Hartz. Particularly was I struck with a half
hint that once escaped his lips, to the effect that some
men on the earth, himself among the number, had pre-
existed on this sphere, and that at times he distinctly re-
membered localities, persons and events that were cotempo-
rary with him before he occupied his present ~form, and
consequently that his real age exceeded that even of Aha-
suerus, the Jew, who, in the dolorous road, mocked the Man
of Calvary, as he bore his cross up the steep and stony way,
for which leze majeste he was doomed to walk the earth, an

I,

I

;
t
1
i
-
F
{
F
_
.
L
t
kti  Y
3
t{J
(           1
i

fI


HIS MYSTIC SEERSHIP.

outcast and vagabond, from that hour till Shiloh comes,
according to the legends of Jewry.
My friend, during our intimacy, often spoke concerning
white magic, and incidentally insisted on his curious doctrine
of transmigration. Nor was this all: He taught that the
souls of people sometimes vacated their bodies for weeks
together, during which they were occupied by other souls,
sometimes that of a permanently disembodied man of earth ;
at others, that of an inhabitant of the aereal spaces, who,
thus embodied, roamed the earth at will. He, when closely
questioned, declared his firm belief that he had lived down-
through many ages, and that for reasons known to himself,
he was doomed to live on, like the great Artefius-that
other Rosicrucian-until a certain consummated act (wherein
he was to be involuntarily an active party) should release
him from it and permit him to share the lot of other men.
As a consequence of his dissimilarity from others he ap-
peared to have been endowed with certain hyper-mental
powers, among which was a strange intro-vision, not the
fraudulent clairvoyance claimed and palmed off upon the
world by the arch impostor of Poughkeepsie, and others of
the same kidney, but something analagous to that attributed
to the oracle-priestesses. of Delphos and Delos. This
power, which was not always present, enabled him to behold
and describe things, persons and events, even across the
widest gulfs of ocean; and to read the secret history and
thoughts of the most secretive, self-possessed and subtle-
minded man as easily as if it were a printed scroll. When

12

~

EAVALETTE.

13

this ecstasy was on him he looked as if, at that moment, he
beheld things forever sealed from the majority of eyes, and
that too both with and without his wonderful magic mirror.
At first I doubted his pretensions, mentally referred them to
an abnormal state of mind, and, until they were abundantly
demonstrated, laughed at the preposterous idea, as I con-
sidered it, of any one seriously claiming such extraordinary
powers in the middle of the nineteenth century of the Christ-
ian era. As previously remarked, his complexion told that
he was a sang melie-not a direct cross-but one in which
at least seven distinct strains of blood intermingled, if they
did not perfectly blend. Save when in high health and
spirits, and weather extremely cold-at which times he was
pale-his color was a rich, light bronze, like that of the
youngsters one sees in such profusion, scampering like mad
through the narrow and tortuous streets of Syrio-Arabic
cities, demanding "Bucksheesh" from every Frank they see.
With his large, broad, high brain, arched and open brow,
his massive, elliptical and angular top-head, he was a marked
man, and when his soul was at high tide, and his deep and
mystic inspirations thrilled and filled him to the brim, his
eye beamed with unearthly fire, glowed like the orbs of a
Pythoness, and scintillated a light peculiarly its own. Who-
ever saw him then never forgot the sight, for he seemed to
have the power of glancing instantaneously through the
world-Time, space-everything and everywhere. Judging
by his speech alone, one would have thought his education
might not have been altogether neglected, but that it cer-

t'
3.
6
i
1  _
r !


14               RAVALETTE.

tainly was of a kind and quality entirely different from that
usually received in Christian lands. There was very little,
if any, polish about him-not that he lacked urbanity, cour-
teousness or smoothness-not that he was rude or rough in
any way, but his placidity was that of the river, forest or
lake, not that of the boudoir or the schools of politesse.
He was extremely enigmatical, and the most so when he
appeared most frank in all that pertained to his inner life
and world ; and was more sphynx-like to me at the end of
ten years' intimacy than on the first day of our acquaintance.
He had, though poor, travelled extensively. Oriental in per-
sonal appearance and physical tastes, he was still more so in
disposition and mind, and in all that pertained to dreamery,
philosophy and the affections.
With this description of the principal personage of this.
narrative, I now proceed to sketch another part of the man.

II

CHAPTER II.
HIS EARLY DAYS-THE STRANGE LEGEND.
AND there sat the man at the side of the road-sat there
mournfully, silently weeping-the strange man !-as if his
heart would break, and not from slight cause was he sorrow-
ing. Not from present want of food, shelter, or raiment, but
because his heart was full, and its fountains overflowing.
The world had called him a genius, and as such had petted,
praised, admired, and starved him all at once ; but not one
grain of true sympathy all the while ; not a single spark of
true disinterested friendship. The great multitude had
gathered about him as city sight-seers gather round the last
new novelty in the museum-a child with two heads, a dog.
with two tails, or the Japanese mermaid-duly compounded
of codfish and monkey-and then, satisfied with their in-
spection, they turned from, and left him in all his deep
loneliness and misery, all the more bitter for the transient
light of sympathy thrown momentarily upon him. Genius
must be sympathetically treated, else it eats its own 'heart,
and daily dies a painful, lingering death.
Throwing aside all his theories about preexistence, and
triple life, as being too recondite for either my readers or
myself, we come at once to his natural, matter-of-fact his-
1e

t
"-
s
t
'     _


RAVALETTE.

17

tory. At eight years of age he had been christened in the
Roman Catholic Church, by the name of Beverly. From his
father our hero inherited little save a lofty spirit, an am-
bitious, restless nature, and a susceptibility to passional
emotions, so great that it was a permanent and positive in-
fluence during his entire life. His fifth .year began'and com-
pleted the only school education the boy ever had, and for all
his subsequent attainments in that direction he was indebted
to his own unaided exertions. His father loved him little ; his
mother loved him ast he apple of her eye-and all the more
because being born with a full and complete set of teeth,
old gossips and venerable grey-beards augured a strange and
eventful career ; beside which, certain singular spectral visi-
tations and experiences of his mother, ere, and shortly after
the young eyes opened on the world, convinced her that he
was born to no common destiny-much of which has already
been detailed at length in "Dhoula Bel : or the Magic
Globe." Two or three and twenty years prior to the open-
ing of this tale, there lived at what then was No. 70 Canal
street, New York city, a woman whose complexion was that
of a Mississippi octoroon. She was a native of Vermont,
had the reputation of being the most beautiful woman in the
State, if indeed she was surpassed anywhere. Her mind was
as rich in its stores and resources as her person was in femi-
nine graces. Her life up to that time had been a checkered,
and in the main, a very unhappy one, for her refinement,
nature, education, character and acquirements, were such as
to demand a broader, higher, better social sphere than what,

TEE MOTHER.

from pecuniary want, she now occupied and moved in. An-
other cause of unrest was that she was maritally mismatched
altogether, for her husband, after years of absence, during
which she had deemed him dead, and contracted a second
alliance with the father of her boy, had suddenly returned,
and never from that moment did she receive one particle of
what her heart yearned for-that domestic love and sym-
pathy, ever the matron's due, and which alone can render life
a blessing, and smooth the rugged, thorny pathway to the
tomb.
Flora Beverly claimed immediate kindred with the red-
skinned sons of the northern wilderness, but that blood in her
veins mingled with the finer current derived from her ances-
tor, the Cid-a strain of royal blood that in the foretime
had nerved noble-souled men to deeds of valor, and fired the
souls of Spanish poets to lofty achievements in the rosy fields
of immortal song. She had been tenderly reared-perhaps
too much so--for her strange and wonderful beauty, flashing
out upon the world from her large and lustrous eyes, and
beaming forth from every feature and movement, had been
such that she had become marked in community from early
childhood, and her parents, looking upon her as a special pro-
vidence to- them, had unwisely cultured qualities in her that
had better have been held in abeyance. By over-care and
morbid solicitude they had nearly spoiled God's handiwork,
and she grew up an imperious, self-willed, exacting, and sen-
sitive queen. She married, and expected to find herself the
centre of a realm of unalloyed joy and delight, wherein her

16


reign would be undisputed. The man she wedded took her
for her beauty, expecting to realize a perfect heaven in its
possession.  Both were bitterly disappointed.  The man
could appreciate only the external and superficial qualities
and excellences of his wife, while her inner, higher, better
self-her soul, was a terra incognita to him, which, like so
many other husbands, he never even once dreamed of explor-
ing ; he had no idea whatever of the inestimable qualities of
her heart, intellect, or spirit, and he had never found out
that her body is the least a woman gives away-that she has
gifts so regal for the man she loves, that glittering diamonds
are sparkless, insipid, valueless in comparison.
And so, the first delirious joy-month over, they both began
to awaken-the man to the fact that to him his wife was a
" very pretty doll," the woman that her husband was-a
brute, whose soul slept soundly beneath the coverlets of
sense, and herself its victim and minister. It was horrible ;
she lost heart, she despised this surface man, and sunk and
lost bloom beneath the terrible weight of the discovery and
its fearful results. Married, she had expected to move in
a sphere very far above that which, by the laws of moral
and mental gravity, she was compelled to occupy. Her
horizon was henceforth to be bounded by that of her master
and his associates. Her husband was vain of his conquest,
and one of his greatest joys was found in parading and show-
ing off her beautyto the best advantage, like a jockey does
a fine horse-and feeling4ockey-like the while, " all this is
mine !" Neither himself nor his associates in life could ap-

18

RAVALETTE.

18               RAVALETTE.                                           A DOUBLE LIFE.            19

19

preciate that more than royal loveliness which dwells within
the breasts of educated and refined Women-a beauty which
eye hath never seen, which eye can never see, but which,
like soft and delicate perfume, radiates from such to all who
are fine enough to perceive it.
As a matter of course, she soon grew weary and disgusted
with this surface-life. Feeling that she was unappreciated
by the living thousands around her, she, with the true in-
stinct of the Indian, spurned their contact, fell back upon
herself, and then, with every tendril of her soul, turned and
yearned toward the teeming millions of the dead. She in-
voked them to her aid, and religiously believed her prayers
answered-as I do-and delivering herself up wholly to their
weird care and guidance, thenceforward lived a double life
-a shadow-life in the world, a real life in the phantom land.
True to the natural instinct of the human heart, just in pro-
portion as she withdrew from the world, so did she approach
that awful veil which is only uplifted for the sons and
daughters of sorrow and the starbeam. She became a seer-
ess, a dreamer, and, in what to her was an actual, positive
communion with the lordly ghosts of the dead nations,
whereof, in both lines, her forefathers had been chiefs, she
sought that sympathy in her sorrows, and in her strange
internal joys-that mysterious balm of healing, which the
red man in his religion-or superstition, if you will-believes
can only thus and there he had. And she found what she
sought, or what to the spontaneous and impulsive soul
amounts to the same thing, believed that she had found it.

.  DOUBLE LIFE.


THE HAUNTED HOUSE.           21

At first she had some difficulty in correctly translating into
her human language of heart and word that which she took
to be the low whisperings of the aerial dwellers of the view-
less kingdom of MANAToU. She ardently longed for a more
open intercourse with the dead, and, as herein stated, as well
as i "Dhoula Bel," was gratified.
Poor Flora ! half-child of Nature and of Art, was des-
tined to bear a child, and that child the man of these
volumes--in the very midst of the conditions here sketched,
under these conditions he was born.
As already stated, beneath this woman's heart there
slumbered the fires of a volcano, intense, fervent, quench-
less, the result alike of her peculiar ancestry and peculiar
training. Her full soul became re-incarnate in the son she
bore ; and with it she endowed the child with her own in-
tense desire to love and be loved ; all her mystic spirit, her
love of mystery ; all her unearthly aspiration toward un-
earthly association,; all her resolute, yet half-desponding,
quick, impulsive, passionate, generous nature ; all, all, found
in him a local habitation and a name, and that name was
Genius.
Thus moulded came he into the world, doomed from birth
to strange and bitter experiences-to face alone and un-
friended the bitter blasts of wintry storms, and the burning
heats of summer sans; to cling to the hope of speedy death,
all the while grasping existence with ten-fold the tenacity
of others, yet daily pleading for life-strange contradiction 1
-dear life, at the world's stern bar ; pleading daily, yet as

often losing his suit, and being by that world sentenced to
be utterly cast adrift on the fickle tide of Fate and Chance,
and that too with a mind and body acutely sensitive, and
constantly at war with each other.
Compensation is a universal principle. While so alive to
pain, he was equally so to the jouissant emotions, and his de-
lights, when they came, were keen, fine, exquisite, to a
remarkable degree. As throwing some light on the charac-
ter of this man-who is not a myth, but an actual existence
--I will here repeat the substance of an account himself
gave of his early life and weird and ghostly experiences.
He had been questioned in regard to certain powers of an
unusual kind attributed to him, and the following reply was
elicited :
" When I was a very young child, my mother dwelt in a
large, sombre and gloomy old stone house on Manhattan
Island. At that time New York was about one quarter as
large as at present, and that house was a long way out of
town. It still stands in the same place, but the city has
grown miles beyond it. The building, in times of pestilence,
fever, smallpox, and cholera, had been used as a. pest-house,
or lazaretto, and in it thousands have died of those dis-
eases, and from there, in my fifth' year, the soul of my
mother took its everlasting flight.
" Scores of people there were ready to testify on oath that
the old house was haunted by ghosts, who strode grimly and
silently through the solemn, stately halls of that massive
island castle. But it generally happened that the witnesses

RAVALETTE. E


SEVEN SORTS OF APPARITIONS.

of these spectral visitants had neither time nor inclination to
cultivate their acquaintance-save one, an apothecary named
Banker, who cursed and swore at one of them on a certain
occasion, whereupon the ghost slapped his face, and com-
pletely turned and withered his lower jaw by way of punish-
ment for the leze majeste. With this exception, those who
met one of these ghosts, invariably had urgent business in an
opposite direction, and it was quite surprising with what
wonderful speed lame persons got over the ground whenever
a ghost was declared to be around, by those who being born
with a 'caul' over the face, were thereby endowed with the
spectre-seeing faculty ; and as such gifted ones could see, I
used often to wish I could meet some who had been born
with two cauls, so that they might speak to as well as see
them.
"Some people do not believe in ghosts. I do, ghosts of
various kinds. I. It is possible to project an image of
one's self, which image may be seen by another however dis-
tant. II. The phantasmal projections of heated 4ancy-.
spectral illusion-the results of cerebral fever, as in drunken
delirium, opium and other fantasies. III. The spirits of
dead men. IV. Spiritual beings from other planets. V. Be-
ings from  orignal worlds, who have not died, but who,
nevertheless, ar of so fine texture as to defy the material
laws which we are compelled to obey, and who, coming
under the operation of those that govern disembodied men,
are enabled to do all that they do. VI. I believe that hu-
man beings, by the action of desperate, wicked wills, fre-

22

RAV7ALETTE-

quently call into being spectral harpies-the horrible embo-
diment of their evil thoughts. These are demons, subsisting
so long as their creators are under the domination of the
evil. VII. I believe in a similar creation emanating from
good thoughts of good people, lovely out-creations of
aspiring souls. Remember these seven. This is a clear
statement of the Rosicrucian doctrine of the higher order
of their temple. In the lower, these seven pass under the
names of Gnomes, Dwarfs, Sylphs, Salamanders, Nereiads;
Driads and Fays.
" One day, when I was about five years old, I returned
from school, .and found the clayey vestment-the fleshly
form of the only friend I ever had,, my mother, cold and
prone in the arms of icy cold, unrelenting Death. AhI
what a shock was that to my poor little childish heart !
She had that morning grown weary of earth, had serenely,
trustingly closed her darling eyes, and I was left alone .to
battle single-handed against four mighty and powerful ene-
mies-Prejudice, Poverty and Organization were three of
them. The fourth is almost too terrible, too wild and fanci-
ful to be credited, yet I will state it :
THE LEGEND.
"Many, very many centuries ago, there lived on the soil
where in subsequent ages stood Babylon and Nineveh the
first, a mighty king, whose power wacs great and undisputed.
He was wise, well-learned and eccentric. He had a daughter
lovely beyond all description. She was as learned as she

23


A GREAT TRUTH.             25

was beautiful. Kings and princes sought her hand in vain ;
for her father had sworn to give her to no man save him who
should solve a riddle which the king himself would propound,
and solve it at the first trial, under penalty of decapitation
on failure. The riddle was this, 'What are the three most
desirable things beneath the sun, that are not the sun, yet
which dwell within the sun ?' Thousands of the gay, the
grave, the sage and ambitious who essayed the solution, and
failed, left the presence to mount the horse of death.
"In the meantime, proclamation was made far and wide,
declaring that robes of crimson, chains of gold, the first place
in the kingdom and the princess should be the reward of the
lucky man.
" One day there came to the court a very rich and royal
embassy from the King of the South, seeking an alliance,
and propounding new treaties ; and among the suite was a
young Basinge poet, who acted as interpreter to the embassy.
This youth heard of the singular state of things, learned the
conditions, and got the riddle by heart. For four long
months did he ponder upon and study it, revolving in his
mind all sorts of answers, but without finding any that ful-
filled the three requisites.-
"In order to study more at his ease, the youth was in the
habit of retiring to a grotto behind the palace, and there re-
peating to himself the riddle and all sorts of possible responses
thereto. The princess hearing of this, determined to watch
him, and did so. Npw, poets must sing, and this one was
- particularly addicted to that sort of exercise ; and he made

24               RAVALETTE.

s

it a point to imagine all sorts of perfections as residing in the
princess, and he sung his songs daily in the grotto-sung him-
self desperately in love with his ideal, and so inflamed the
girl herself, who had managed to both see and hear him,
herself unseen, that she loved him dearer than life. Here,
then, were two people made wretched by a whim.
"Love and song are very good in their places,'but, for a
steady diet, are not comparable to many other things ; and,
as this couple fed on little else, they both pined sadly and
rapidly away.
" At length, one day, the youth fell asleep in the grotto,
and his head rested directly over a fissure in the rock through
which there issued a very fine and subtle vapor, which had
the effect of throwing the young man in a trance, during
which he fancied he saw the princess herself, unveiled, and
more lovely than the flowers that bloomed in the king's
garden. He also thought he saw an inscription, which bade
him despair not, but TRY ! and, at the same time, there
flowed into his mind this sentence, which subsequently be-
came the watchword of the mystic fraternity which, for some
centuries, has been known as that- of the Rosie Cross-
'There is no difficulty to him who truly wills.' Along with
this there came a solution of the king's riddle, which he re-
membered when he awoke, and instantly proclaimed his
readiness to attempt that which had cost so many adven-
turers their lives.
" Accordingly, the grandest preparations-including a man
with a drawn blade ready to make the poet shorter by the
2

N


26               'RAVALETTE.

head if he failed-were made, and, at an appointed hour, all
the court, the princess included, convened in the largest hall
of the palace. The poet advanced to the foot of the throne,
and there knelt, saying, '0 king, live for ever ! What
three-things are more desirable than Life, Light and Love?
What three are more inseparable ? and what better cometh
from  the sun, yet is not.the sun ?  0 king ! is thy riddle
answered ?' 'True !' said the king ; 'you have solved it,
and my word shall be kept!'   And he straightway gave
commands to have the marriage celebrated in royal style,
albeit, through the influence of a high court official, he hated
poets in general, and this one particularly so, because he
thought the young man had foiled him in one of the treaties
just made. Now, it so happened that the grand vizier had
hoped by some means to get a solution'of the riddle, and
secure the great prizes for a young son of his own ; and, as
soon as the divan was closed, that very day, he hastened to
the closet of the king, and there still further poisoned the
mind of his master against the victor, by charging him with
having succeeded through the aid of sorcery, which so en-
raged the king that he readily agreed to remove the claimant
by means of a speedy, secret, and cruel death that very night,
to which end the poet was drugged in his wine at the even-
ing banquet, conveyed to a couch openly, and almost imme-
diately thereafter removed to the chamber allotted to the
refractory servants of the court. This apartment was under
ground, and. the youth, being thrown violently on the floor,
revived, and was astonished to find himself bound hand and

foot in presence of the king, his vizier, a few soldiers, and-
death ; for he saw at a glance that his days were numbered.
He defended himself from the charge of sorcery, but in vain.
He was doomed to die, and the order given, when, just as the
blow was about to fall, there appeared the semblance of a
gigantic hand, moving as if to stay the uplifted blade ; but
too late. The sword fell, and, as it reached the neck of the
victim, he uttered the awful words, 'I curse ye all who-'
the rest of the sentence was spoken in eternity ; but there
came -a clamor and a clangor as of a thousand protesting
spectral voices, and one of them said, in tones of thunder,
' This youth, by persistence of will, had unbarred the gates
between tis world and that of mystery. He was the first
of his an$ thy race that ever achieved so great an honor.
And ye have slain him, and he hath cursed thee, by reason
of which thou, 0 king ! and thou, 0 vizier !- and the dead
man, have all changed the human for another nature. The
first shall go down the ages, transmigrating from form to
form. Thou, 0 vizier ! shall also exist till thou art forgiven ;
-DHOULA BEL shall be thy name.; and thou shalt tempt
the king through long ages, and be foiled whenever the
youth-who shall be called the STRANGER-shall so will,
for the sake of the love he bore thy daughter. This drama
shall last and be until. a son of Adam shall wed with a
daughter of Ish, or thou, king, in one of the phases of thy
being, shall love, and be truly, fully loved again, and for thy-
self alone. An eternity may elapse ere then !"'

TEE SPECTRAL HAND.


/    RAVALETTE.

" Ask me not," said the young Beverly, " why, but believe
me when I say that I know that ages ago I was that king ;
that the Stranger has been seen by my mother ; that Dhoula
Bel still haunts and tempts me for the sin of ages. I know
the fate impending over me, and that in this my present form
I am a neutral being, for whom there is no hope save through
the union of myself, a son of Adam's race, with a daughter
of Ish, one not of Adam's race. . . . . . This, then,
is the dreadful fate to which I was left so pitilessly exposed
on the morning that my mother died on Manhattan Island
-left to pay the penalty of a crime committed thousands of
years ago."

28

CHAPTER III
A SPECTRAL VISITANT.
IT must be confessed that this was a singular story, and
smelled very strongly of either Hartz-mountainism or its
equivalent, imagination. He continued his story thus:
" I did not know all this at five years old, of course. The
only thing I did fully comprehend was the loss of my mother
-her strange silence-the woeful look of those who hugged my
little head and said 'Poor child!1' I tried hard to be manly
and not cry, as they bade me, but it was useless, and the
tears welled up in floods from my poor little childish. heart.
Have you ever lost a mother ?
" As I nestled on the bed where she lay so very still, I
asked the bystanding mourners where the talking part of my
mother had gone to ? If she would never talk to, love and
pet me any more ? and they said 'Never more,' and they
repeated that dreadful but. untrue refrain till my poor heart
was full almost to bursting, with its load and pressure of
grief ; and then I threw myself upon her dear body, and
cried till tears refused to flow; for I had lost my mother,
sirs-I had lost my mother ! Would that. I could weep
now as I did then; it would relieve my over-burdened heart.
But I cannot, for the tear fountain seldom thaws. The

I


TIlE' ST1ATGER.                   3

30 i

RAVALETTE.

floods still gather and well up, but they freeze ere they
reach the surface, and the heart strings snap and crack, but .
they will not break. I wish they would, so that I might
join, even for a while, that dear mother whom  I loved
so well.
" Childhood's griefs are written with a feather, upon warm
parchment, with stainless ink ; but the heart's greater woes
are burned into the memory with a fiery iron stylus ; the
first lines speedily wear away; the last are ineffaceable.
As I lay upon the cold breast of my darling mother, a
woman said to me, 'Do not cry, poor child ! She is happy
now ! She has just gone up, on her way to heaven !
And I believed what that woman said ; and I looked out
through the deep foliage of the trees hard by ; looked
eagerly up into the sky, expecting to see her ascending soul ;
and tas- my eye caught the .shadowy fleece of a melting
silvery cloud, I thought and believed it to be my mother's
sainted soul. I half believe so still ; for as the cloud van-
ished into nothingness on the breast of the blue, I distinctly
heard a voice, gentle, soft, and sweetly mournful, like unto
the dying notes of a wind-harp, lightly touched by the
zephyr's breath, whisper in my' ear these words-which at
that time I could not fully comprehend-' Lonely one of the
ages ! there may be rest for thee in the life thou'rt now
commencing. Let thy motto be-TRY ! Despond not, but
ever remember that how'bitter soever our lot may be, that
despite it all, WE MAY BE HAPPY YET ! Peace,
poor child ! Thou'rt watched and guarded by thy mother !'

'and the stranger,' added another, and more silvery voice
from ,out the deep stillness of that noon-tide heaven. I
knew that mystic voice-the first one-arnd felt that it was
from beyond Time's threshold. I 'trusted it's sacred words
of 'promise, for I had, child as I was, an unshaken faith, an
intuition, if you will, that instant flowing to me, that my
blessed mother still lived.
" From that hour commenced a strange, double existence
to and in me. Two instances, perfectly true in all'respects,
I will relate, either of which forever settled in my mind that
some human beings consciously survive the ordeal of death.
Not long after my irreparable loss, I, along with several
other children, went to bed in the roof chamber of that
dark old house. Something had occurred of a merry turn,
and we were all brimful of joy and glee, and our mirth was
as loud as it dared be for fear of the'ogres down stairs, who
had a bad habit of enforcing silence through the medium of
sundry straps and birch twigs. In the very midst of the
uproar the bed-clothes were slowly, carefully lifted from off
us by agencies totally invisible. We pulled them back ; but
again and again they were removed, and the movement
was accompanied by a din and clatter, as if fifty cannon
balls were rolling on the floor ; and it immediately brought
the ogres and their straps from down stairs to see what was
the matter. So far as terror permitted we explained,
whereupon the ogres looked scaredly wise, readjusted the
quilts and retreated. No sooner had they left than the
cannon balls began again to roll over the floor, and niuster-

31


RAVALETTE.
ing courage to rise and grapple for the coverlet, which had
again been pulled from us, I clearly and distinctly saw a
female figure calmly standing at the foot of the bed, but
not upon the floor, for she floated like a vapor on the air.
There was but little, if any, light in the room, save that
which surrounded, and appeared to emanate from the spec-
tral figure. She stood in the midst of a silveryor phos-
phoric haze. It was by no means phantasmal in appearance,
but so clear, sharp, well defined did the apparition seem,
that to this day I remember distinctly the figures on what
appeared to be the dress she wore, which fact involves a
mystery no psychologist has yet been able to fathom satis-
factorily. The children who also saw this sight were terri-
fled,; I was not, for I felt she would not harm me, for the
reason that mothers love their offspring, and that figure was
my mother.
" Some considerable time elapsed after this. I had grown
into a stout and active boy, having already drifted for some
years up and down the world, and once found myself regis-
tered as cabin boy on board the brig Phoebe, of New Bed-
ford, whereof one Alonzo Baker was captain-not of New
Bedford-but the brig.
"In this vessel I served for several months, to the satisfac-
tion of no one, myself included, being too small, weak and
delicate for the arduous duties required of me, and conse-
quently had to pay the usual penalty.
"Sailors, to a man, are superstitious, though less so now
than in the days whereof I am speaking. Still, at present,

THE :BRIG' PHBE.

I

it is not hard, in spite of the march of intellect, to find
sailors who,.between the dog-watch and eight bells, will spin
you, a yarn under the weather rail that will 'make a man's
hair stand on end like hairs on an enraged kitten.
" On board the Phoebe there were several old salts, and
many were the tales they told of the' ghosts.of murdered
sailors, appearing in the midst of dreadful storms, to encour-
age foremast. Jacks, and frighten the souls of guilty mates
and captains.; and of course all this tended to deepen the
vein of superstition and mysticism  running through me.
Often have I been apprised; of the presence and power of the
dead or of those who never die, and, when tempted'to share
the dangerous pleasures of my older comrades; been: myste-
riously saved.
" Sailors, like everybody else, are fond of power, and delight
in lording it over those whom' chance or accident.places 'in
their power ; and .on every vessel there is one man who is
sure to be the butt and target for petty tyranny and abuse.
On board the Phoebe this fell to my lot.; and not being able
to forcibly resist, I- took ,care to hide in my chest about a
gallon.of rum, into which about half an ounce-of croton oil,
fromr the, medicine chest had previously been poured'-I-
labelled the jug 'Poison  Croton oil is the most infamously.
active purgative known. The sailors found the. jug, .read the
label-didn't believe it-drank the liquor, and were actively
engaged fir several. hours thereafter, as,- a consequence.
k more earnest,.swift-moving set of men' were never seen.
They had no relish for supper that night. They beat me
2*

33


. 34     .RAVALETTE.
unmercifully, but I was -revenged. Still they abused me,
until one day a sailor tweaked my nose in the galley, and for.
his pains received half a gallon of hot lard in the waist-band,
which troubled him wonderfully. . . At last I meditated
suicide as a relief, and, in a paroxysm of rage and despair,
such as boys only are subject to, actually ran aft to accom-
plish it by leaping over the taffrail into the surging sea,
when I was arrested by a narrow blast of warm-almost hot
air, which thrilled me to the very centre of my being, and
almost pinned me to the deck, while at the same time there
flowed into my soul an eloquent and indignant protest against
my -supreme folly, accompanied by the spoken words, 'Be
patient;! TRY !'
" It is impossible to attribute all these things to imagina-
tion.
" One evening, a long time after the occurrence just
related, company of ladies and gentlemen, in a house situ-
ated near the observatory, Portland, Maine, were conversing
upon the general subject of ghosts, and rewards and punish-
ments after death. When we sat down there were thirteen
persons in the room, and thirteen persons only. We became
deeply absorbed in the discussion, indeed so much. so, that
the host gave the servant strict orders not to disturb us, and
to refuse admission to any person whatever. And thus we
all talked freely, the servant seated in the hall, close by the
door. No one -was admitted. Presently one person, by
* reason of his eloquence and venerable appearance, engrossed
all our attention by the thrilling things he told, although he

A MYSTERIOUS GUEST.

did not join the conversation till over an hour after we had
begun it ; nor did his conversation appear at all intrusive.
He was the fourteenth person, although we did not realize
the fact till we were separating, and he had disappeared.
Upon inquiry no one knew him, had ever seen him before,
or observed his departure-not even the servant, who
declared that for two hours no one had passed him either
way. It, was voted 'very strange,' and that for our own
credit sake the matter should be 'hushed up ;' but we agreed.
to meet again at the same house, that day-week, to discuss
the matter, and compare opinions arrived at in the interim."
f

35


CHAPTER      IV.
A VERY STRANGE STORY-ETTELAVAR IV      .
" ON the appointed evening a select party of us met pursu-
ast to agreement ; but not one had reached a solution of
the mystery. In those days the impostor Davis had not
foisted his blasphemous absurdities on the world ; nor had
his peculiar system of morals made rogues of the one half of
his deluded followers, or shameless harlots of the other : nor
had lunatic asylums then been packed, as they have since,
with sufferers ruined by his teachings ; nor were graveyards
dotted with the mounds raised. by weeping friends over loved
ones driven to suicide by his doctrines. In those days a
man's wife was comparatively safe, nor were divorces half so
common as they have since become. In those days husbands
did not sneak off to Indiana, and by blank perjury procure
divorce in order that they might revel in barefaced, shame-
less, open lust with their worthy paramours. In those days
spiritualism had not broken in on the world, nor had the
goblin philosophy made millions of fools and idiot fanatics
out of material that God created for better purposes. In
those days Joe Smith had not convinced thousands that har-
lotry is the straightest road to heaven; nor had Noyes founded
his huge religious brothel in the centre of the State,, con
R8

THE STRANGE TRANCE.                37
taminating the country for leagues around ; and the handy
system of ghostology, with its hundred truths and thousand
falsehoods, had not then afforded a ready explanation of
mysteries such as those I have recounted ; nor had any man
dared claim to be the confidential secretary of Almighty
God.
" On the night in question our conversation became, if pos-
sible, more interesting and absorbing than on the first occa-
sion, owing to the novel fillip it had then received. So ab-
sorbed did I become during the evening, that on one or two oc-
-easions I partially lost myself in a sort of semi-mesmeric coma,
which gradually deepened as the discussion waxed warmer,
until my lower limbs grew cold, and a chilling numbness
crept upon me, creating such a terror that I resolved to
make my condition known, even at the ;risk of interrupting
the discussion.
" I made the trial, and found, to my consternation, that I
could not utter a syllable-I could not move an inch. Hor-
ror ! The company were so engrossed with the matter be-
fore them, that no notice was taken of any change that
might have been perceptible in me ; nor did one person there
suspect that I was not attentively drinking in the discourse.
"With inexpressible alarm, I felt that life itself wag fast
ebbing from  me, and that death was slowly and surely
grasping, clutching, freezing my vitals. I was dying.,. Pre-
sently-it appeared as .if a long interregnum had occurred
between the last previous conscious moment, and the present
instantaneous, but positive agony---a sudden, sharp, tingling


A STRANGE OCCURRENCE.

pang, like that of hot needles thrust in the flesh, shot
through my brain. This was followed by a sinking sensation,
as if the body had resigned itself to passive dissolution, and
then came, with electric rapidity, a succession of the most
cruel agonies ever endured 'by mortal man. When it ceased
consciousness had ceased also, and I fell to the 'floor as one
suddenly dead, to the amazement of the company, as was
afterwards declared.
"How long this physical inanition lasted, I cannot now
say, but during it the spiritual part of me was roused to a
tenfold degree of activity, consciousness and power ; for it
saw things in a new and cryptic light, and far more distinctly
than it ever had through the bodily eyes. An increase of
hearing power accompanied this accretion of sight, and I
heard a voice, precisely like that heard when my mother
died, and when about to throw myself into the sea, which
said, 'Awake ! a lesson awaits you ;' and with this there
came a partial rousing from the lethargy, and I was led up-
stairs and threw myself upon a sofa, mechanically, at the
same time fixing my eyes upon the bald white face of a rare
old Flemish clock that occupied the entire southern angle
of the room. Here I was left alone by my friends, who
again resumed their conversation in the parlor below.
" Gradually the old clock-face seemed to clarify and ex-
pand, until, no longer obstructed by substance, I gazed out,
and down, and up, through an avenue of the most astonish-
ing1ight I had ever beheld. It seemed to me that I no lon-
ger occupied my body, but that, freed from flesh and time, I

38

EAVALETTE-

had become a-denizen of Eternity ; and on a fleecy vapor I
was sustained in mid-air by the potent arm of a strange-look-
ing old man-the veritable and precise image of him who,
ten days before, had occasioned us such a fright by his mys-
terious conversations and evanishment. He told me not to
fear, but to repose implicit confidence in myself and him ;
that he would not injure me, but do me good : that his name
was Ettelavar : that his years were-ages long ; that'he was
the companion of those who die-who die, and live again-
and of those who never taste of death. All this, and more,
he told me; and he said that his design was to serve both him-
self and me ; that he was familiar with certain mighty secrets,
that had been claimed to be possessed,'through many ages,
by the wise and learned of earth-the Narek El Gebel, the
Hermetists, the Pythagoreans, the three temples of the Rosie
Cross, the medieval and modern Rosicrucians, and the scat-
tering delvers after -mystery in all ages, times, and places.
He said that among the things that I might learn from him,
were the priceless secret of compounding the Elixir of Life,
the drinking of which, by mortals, would confer perpetual
youth and surprising beauty. Then there was the Lethean
Draught, and whomsoever drank thereof, forthwith forgot
all care, was oblivious to all that concerned the Future, and
lived intensely in the' Present. Then there was"the Water
of Love, and whoever drank thereof became irresistibly mag"
netic to the opposite sex, and could kindle affection in Ythe
heart of ice by mere personal presence. Then there was the
Wondrous Stone of the Philosophers, not capable of trans-

39,


40

BA74 LEEW.

I

muting, by a touch, whole tons of grossest substance into
solid, shining gold, but of making it chemically. Then there
was the Magic Crystal Ball, in which the gazer could behold
whatever he wished to, that was then transpiring on this
earth, or any of the planets. 'All this;knowledge,' said he,
'I will expound to you, on certain conditions to be hereafter
mentioned.'
"I relate these things in the briefest possible manner, and
make no allusions to my feelings during the time I listened
to the strange being, Ettelavar, further than to remark, that
during the-temptation, shall: it be called ?-I seemed to be
hovering in the aerial expanse, and realized a, fullness and
activity of life never realized before, and knew .for the first.
time what it was to be a human being. My freed spirit
soared away into the superincumbent. ether, and :far, very.:
far, beneath us rolled thegreat revolving globe ; while far'
away in the black inane, twinkled myriads of fierysparks--
the starry eyes of God, looking through the tremendous-vault
of Heaven. Picture to yourself .a soul, quitting earth,. per-:
haps forever, and hovering over it like a gold-erested cloud,;
at set ofsun, when all the winds are hushed to sleep on the.
still and loving bosom of its protecting God, and' thine !.
"By tlie exercise of a.power to me unknown, Ettelavar
arrested our motion, and the cloud on which we seemed to-
float stood still in mid-air, and he said to me, ' Look .and
learn 1'
"Like busy insects in the, summer sun, afar. off in the
distance I beheld large masses of human beings toiling wea-

i'

THE VISION.

41

rily up a steep ascent, over the summit of which there
floated heavily, thick, dense, murky, gloom-laden clouds.
Crimson and red on their edges were they, as if crowned
with thunder, and their bowels overcharged with lightnings ;
and their sombre shadows fell upon the plains below, heavy
and pall-like, even as shrouds on the limbs of beauty, or the
harsh critic's' sentence upon the first fruits of budding and
aspiring genius. 'It is nothing but a crowd,' said I ; and
the being at my side repeated, as if in astonishment, 'No-
thing but a crowd ? Boy, the destinies of nations centre in
a crowd. Witness Paris. Look again!I' Obeying mechan-
ically, I did so, and soon beheld a strange commotion among
the people ; and I heard a wail go up--a cry of deep an-
guish-a sound heavily freighted with human woe and
agony. I shuddered.
" On the extreme apex of the mountain stood a colossal
monument, not an obelisk, but a sort of temple, perfect in
its proportions and magnificent to the view. This edifice
was surmounted by a large and highly polished golden
pyramid in miniature. On all of the faces of this pyramid
was inscribed the Latin word FELIcITAS ; I asked for an
explanation from my guide, but instead of giving it, he
placed his air-like hand upon my head, and drawing it gently
over my brow and eyes, said, 'LookI'
" Was there magic in his touch ? It really seemed so,
for it increased my visual capacity, fifty-fold, and on again
turning to the earth beneath me, I found my interest almost
painfully excited by a real drama there and then enacting.


]AVALETTE.

It was clearly apparent that the great majority of the people
were partially, if not wholly blind ; and I observed that one
group, near the centre of the plain below the mountain,
appeared to be under much greater excitement than most of
the others,'and their turbulence appeared to result from the
desire of each individual to reach a certain golden ball and
staff which lay on a cushion of crimson velvet within the
splendid open-sided monument on the mountain. In the
midst of this lesser crowd, energetically striving to reach the
ascending path, was one man who seemed to be endowed
with far more strength and resolution-not of body, but of
purpose--than those immediately around him. Bravely he
urged his way toward the mountain's top, and, after almost
incredible efforts, succeeded. Exultingly he. approached the
temple, by his side were hundreds more ; he outran them,
entered, reached forth to seize the ball and sceptre--it
seemed that the courageous man must certainly succeed--
his fingers touched the prize, a smile of triumph illumined his
countenance, and then suddenly went out in the blight of
death, for he fell to the earth from a deadly blow, dealt by
one treacherous hand from behind, while others seized and
hurled him down the steep abyss upon which the temple
abutted, and he was first dashed to pieces and then tram-
pled out of existence by the iron heels of advancing thou-
sands--men who saw but pitied not, rather rejoicing that
one rival less was- in existence.
q'Is it possible,' cried I, internally, 'that -such hell-broth
of vindictiveness boils in human veins ?'

42

"'Alas, thou seest !' replied Ettelavar, by my side.
' Learn a lesson,' said he, 'from what you have seen. Fame
is a folly, not worth the having when obtained.  ' Felicitas'
is ever ahead, never reached, therefore not to be looked for.
Friendship is an empty name, or convenient cloak which
men put on to enable them to rob with greater facility. No
man is content to see another rise, except when such rising
will assist his own elevation ; and the man behind will stab
the man in front, if he stands in his way. Human nature is
infantile, childish, weak, passionate and desperately depraved,
and as a rule, they are the greater villains who assume the
most sanctity ; they the most selfish who prate loudest of
charity, faith and love. I begin my tutelage by warning,
therefore arming you, against the world and those who con-
stitute it. If you wish to truly rise, you must first .learn to
put the world and what it contains at its proper value.
Remember, I who speak am Ettelavar. Awake!'
" Like the sudden black cloud in eastern seas, there came
a darkness before me ; my eyes opened, and fell upon the old
clock face. Its hands told me that it was exactly thirteen
minutes since I had marked the hour on the dial. Since
that hour I have had much- similar experience, and it is this
that affords ground for the unusual powers in certain respects,
not claimed by, but attributed to me."  .    .    .
Such was the substance of the young man's narrative, in
answer to questions propounded to him long before the date
at which he is introduced to the reader.

d:3

ETTELAVAR.


II

CHAPTER V.
LOVE. EULAMPIA-THE BEAUTIFUL.

THE golden sun was setting, and day was sinking beneath
his crimson coverlets in the glowing west. The birds, on
thousand green boughs, were singing the final chorus of the
summer opera ; the lambs were skipping homeward in the
very excess of joy ; while the cattle on the hills lowed and
bellowed forth their thanksgiving to the viewless Lord of
Glory. Man alone seemed unconscious of his duty and the
blessings he enjoyed. Toil-weary farmers were slowly plod-
ding their way supper and bed-ward, and all nature seemed
to be preparing to enjoy her bath of rest. Still sat the wan-
derer by the highway side ; still fell his tears upon the
grateful soil ; and as the journeyers home and tavern-ward
passed him by, many were the remarks they made upon him,
careless whether he heard them or not. Some in cruel,
heartless mockery and derision, some few in pity, and all
in something akinto surprise, for men of his appearance were
rarely seen in that neighborhood. At last there came along
three persons, two of whom were unmistakably Indiaus, and
the third, a girl of such singular complexion, grace, ferm, and
* Romaic - EvXapffa --Eulampia - Evlamb.ah. " Bright-shining."-Lovely,
mystically beautiful.
44

EVLAMB+A.

'45

extraordinary facial beauty, it was extremely difficult to
ethnologically define what she was. This girl was about
fourteen ; the boy who accompanied her and the grey-haired
old Indian by her side, was apparently about twelve years
old. This last was the first to notice the stranger.
"Oh, Evlamb6a," said he, "see ! there's a man crying, and
I'm going to help him !" The boy spoke in his own verna-
cular, for he was a full blood of the Oneida branch of the
Mohawks, fearless, honorable, quick, impulsive, and generous
as sunlight itself. To see distress and fly to its relief was
but a single thing for him, and used to be with his people
until improved and " civilized " with bad morals and worse
protection. The Indian was Ki-ah-wah-nah (The Lenient and
Brave) chief of the Stockbridge section of the Mohawks.
The girl, Evlambda, nominally passed for his grandchild, but
such was not the case, for although she might well be taken
for a fourth blood, she really had not a trace of Indian about
her, further than the costume, language, and general educa-
tion and habit. Her name was modern Greek, or Romaic,
but her features and complexion no more resembled that of
the pretty dwellers on Prinkipo or the shores of the Bos-
phorus, than that of the Indians or Anglo Saxon. Many
years previous to that day, this girl, then a child of three or
four months age, had been brought to the chief and left in
his care for a week, by a woman clad in the garb of, and be-
longing to a wandering band of gipsies, who, attracted by
the universal reputation of the New World, had left Bohemia
and crossed the seas to reap a golden harvest. This band


THE MEETING.47

RAVALETTE.

had held its headquarters for nearly a year on Cornhill,
Utica, whence they had deployed about the country a cir-
cle whose radius averaged one hundred and twenty miles.
The woman never came back to claim the child, for the
members of the band suddenly decamped after having
financiered a gullible old farmer out of several thousands
of dollars in gold, which they had persuaded him it was
necessary that he should put in a bag and bury in the ground
at a certain hour of a certain night, in order to the speedy
discovery of a large mine of diamonds that was certainly
upon his farm, and would as surely be brought to light when
the gold was exhumed after a certain time, which time was
quite long enough for the band to dig up the gold and
disperse in all directions, to meet again three thou-
sand miles away.  This bit of Cornhill swindling was con-
sidered rather sharp practice, even for that locality, and
ended by shrouding;the girl in an impenetrable mystery, and
giving to the old- chief a child, who, as she expanded ,and
grew up became quite as dear to his heart as any one of his
own offspring ; and in fact, by reason of her superior intelli-
gence, she became far more so, for mind ever makes itself
felt and admired. Not one of the ethnological, physical, moral,
or mental characteristics which mark the Romany tribes was
to be noticed in this girl, and wise people concluded that she
had somewhere been stolen by the woman, who from fear or
policy had left her to her fate and the godd old Indian's care.
Esthetics is not my forte, hence I shall not attempt to
describe the young girl. The name she bore was marked on

her clothing in Greek letters, which were afterwards rendered
into English by a professor of a college whose assistance had
been asked by the Indian.
Besides being known far and near as the most beautiful
girl of her age, she was also distinguished as by far the most
intelligent. She was undisputed queen on the Reservation,
not by right, but by quiet usurpation. She looked and acted
the born Empress, and her triplicate sceptre consisted of
kindness, intelligence, and that nameless dignity and presence
inherent in truly noble souls.
Such was the bright-shining maiden, who, acted by
the boy's cry and actions, now crossed over to the side of
young Beverly. Observing his sorrowful appearance, she
placed her soft hand tenderly upon his head, and said in
tones heart-felt and deeply sympathetic, " Man of the heavy
heart, why weep you here ? Is your mother just dead ?"
The young man raised his head, saw the radiant girl before
him, and, after a moment's hesitation, during which he shud-
dered as if at some painful memory, murmuring, "No ; it
cannot be possible !-cannot be-in this part of the world,
too ! no !" he replied to her, saying, " Girl, I am lonely, and
that is why I weep. I am but a boy, yet the weight of years
of grief rest on and bear me down. To-day is the anniver-
sary of my mother's death, and, when it comes, I always pass
it in tears and prayer. Since she went home to heaven, I
have had no true friend, and my lot and life are miserable in-
deed. Men call themselves my friends, and prove it by rob-
bing me. Not long ago, there came a man to me-he was

46


THE FINANCIER.            49

48                RAVALETTE.

very rich-and said, 'People tell me that you are very skillful
with the sick. Come ; I have a sister whom the physicians say
must die. - I love her. You are poor ; I am rich. Save her ;
gold shall be yours.' I went. She was beyond the reach of
medicine, and it was pos bible to prolong her life only in one
of two ways-either by the transfusion of blood from my
veins to her own, or by the transfusion of life itself. I was
young and strong, and we resolved to adopt the latter alter-
native, as being the only possibly effective one ; and for
months, during three years, I sat beside that poor sick girl,
and freely let her wasted frame draw its very life by magneti-
cally sapping my own. Finally, I began to sink with ex-
haustion and disease similar to her own, and, to save my life,
was forced to break the magnetic cord, and go to Europe.
As soon as it was severed she sunk into the grave, and then
I returned, and received a considerable sum of money in the
nature of a loan. This favor was granted me as a reward
for my pains, time, and ruined health. I was to return it
from the proceeds of a business to be immediately established.
At that time I resolved to purchase a little home for those
who depended on my efforts for the bread they ate, and so
wrote to a man who called himself my friend, but who is the
direct cause of most of the evil I have for ten years experi-
enced. This fellow pretended to deal in lands. I put nine
hundred dollars-half I had in the world--in this man's
hands, to purchase a fine little place of a few acres, which
place he took me to see. I was pleased with it, and saw a
home for those who would be left behind me when I was dead,

A few days thereafter this ghoul came to me again, and re-
presented that gold bullion being down he could make con-
siderable profit for me in three days, would I make the
investment. I handed over the remainder of my money.
The three days lengthened into years. Instead of being a
capitalist he was a bankrupt-was not in the gold business,
and had no more control of the land he showed me than he
had of Victoria's crown. Meantime, my furniture was seized ;
I lost my name with the friend who advanced the sum ; I
became ill, and, in my agony, called this man a swindler. To
silence me, he gave me a check on a bank. I presented it.
'No funds I' And yet he dared call himself an honest man.
'You have but to u say the harsh things said about me,' said
this semblance of a an to me one day, 'and I am ready to
pay you everythg I owe.' My mind was unsettled ; I
listened to him, and the result was that, by duplicity and
fraud, more mean and despicable than the first, if there be a
depth of villainy more profound, he obtained my signature to
an acknowledgment that the money of which he had openly
swindled me, then in his hands, was 'a friendly loan.' And
then he laughed, 'Ha ! ha!1' and he laughed, 'Ho ! ho!1' at
me and my misery, and actually suffered a child in our family
to perish and wretchedly die for the want of food and medi-
cine. But then he told me that he had buried it properly,
respectably, up there in the cemetery, and it was the only
truth I ever heard from his lips, But then he sent the
funeral bills for me to pay-all the while laughing at my
misery"--while the lordly house he occupied was redeemed
3


WE MAY EE HAPPY YET.

RAVALETTE.

from forced sale with my money, and himself and his feasted
luxuriously every day on what was the price of    heart's
blood! Still, they all laughed, 'Ha! ha !' and  rew fat oni
my blood. I still have the memory of a dead child, up there
in the cemetery. Poor starved child !  It is no satisfaction
to me to know that this man will die-a disgraced pauper, de-
dendeit on charity for bread. Still less is it to realize, as I
do that the brothel and the gibbet, the gambling hell and
massive prisons, are shadowed in the foreground of his line,
and that it will utterly perish from off the earth in ignominy
and horror. I would not have it so, but fate is fate ; and I
see at least, one dangling form of his race swinging in the
air It y prophetic eye beholds  ".-
As the men uttered these terrible sentences, he shuddered
'as if -horror-stricken at the impending fate of this wronger of
he living aid the dead, and it was clear to the girl that he
would have freely averted the doom, had such a thing been
ossible.-
" Men and cliques," said he, "have used me for their pur.g
poses--have, like this ghoul, wormed themselves into my con-
adnce, and then, when their ends were served, have ever
abandoned me to wretchedness and misery.
"Iosicrucians, and all other delvers in the mines of mystery,
all dealerr with the dead, all whose idiosyncracies are toward
he idealthe mystic and the sublime, are debtors to nature,
ifiuathe price they pay for power is groans, tears, breaking
iats, aud a misery that none but such doomed oties dan
ensiaii 'i ppreciate or understand.  Oc sensation is asIekor-

60

able law of being, nor can there, by any possibility, be any
evasion of it. The possession of genius is a certificate of per.
petual suffering.
" You now know why I am sad, 0 girl of the good heart,
I am weak to-night ; to-morrow will bring strength again.
But, see! the golden sun is setting in the west. Alas ! I fear
that my sun is setting also for a long, long night of wretched.
ness."
"You speak well, man of the sore spirit," repli ;d the girl.
You speak well when you say the sun is setting ; !zt ou
seem to forget thatit will rise again, and shine as brightly as
he does to-day ! He will shine even though cark clouds
hide him from us ; and though you and I may nc t behold his
glories, some one else will see his face, and feel his blessed
heat. Old men tell us that the darkest hour is just before
the break of day. I bid you take heart.  You may be happy
ye !"
The precise formula of the Mysterious Brotherhood !-
the very words uttered by the dead mother who bore me I
How   did this girl obtain it?  When?   Where?    From
whom ?"
Beverly started,. gazed into the mighty depths of hey eye,
was about to ask thequestions suggested, but forbore.
" We may all be happy yet," said she,; "for the Great Spi-
rit tells, me so !" And she crossed her hands upon her virgin
breast-breast glowing with immortal fervor and inspiration;
and, she threw, by a toss of the head, her lon  black seaof
hair behind her, and stood revealed the perfect incarnation of

51


THlE IOSIC]UOIAN.

RAVALETTE.

faith and hope, as if her upturned eyes met God's glance from
Heaven. The old chief and the boy at his side said nothing,
but each instinctively folded his hands in the attitude of con-
fidence and prayer. The combined effect of all this upon the
young man was electric. The singular incident struck him
so forcibly that he rose to his feet, placed his hand upon the
girl's head, uplifted his eyes and voice to heaven, and, from
the depths of his soul, responded " Amen, and Amen."
It was at this critical instant that I, the editor of these
papers, chanced to come up to where this scene was being
enacted. A few words sufficed for an introduction, and on
that spot begun a friendship between us all that death him-
self is powerless to break.
Two hours thereafter, the chief, his son, the girl, the youth,
were, with myself, partaking of a friendly meal at the old
man's house. After the repast was over, the conversation
took a philosophic turn, in which the chief, who was a really
splendid specimen of the cultivated Indian, took an active and
interested part.
Presently the old people took their pipes, the younger ones
went to bed, and Beverly and 'Levambea, as she was almost
universally called, walked out, and sat them down beneath an
old sycamore that stretched its giant limbs like the genius of
protection over the cottage. There they talked gaily enough
at first, but presently in a tender and pathetic strain ; and it
was clear that there had sprung up between them already
something much warmer than friendship, yet which was not
love. When they rose to enter the house, the last words

52

52                                                                                                   53

53

uttered by the girl-uttered in the same singularly inspired
strain observed on their first meeting-were, "Yes! Iwill
love you ; but not here, not now, perhaps not on this earth.
Yet I will be your prop, your stay, though deep eas between
us roll. Listen ! When I am in danger you will know it,
wherever you may be. When you are in danger you will see
me. Forget not what I say. Ask me no questions. Your
fate is a singular one, but not more so than my own. Good
night !  Good-bye ! We will see each other no more at
present--it is not permitted!"  And without another word
the abruptly left him, darted into the house, passed up the
stairs, and was gone like a spirit.
Next day, at the solicitation of the chief and others who
took an interest in young Beverly, he consented to go with
me to my home, many leagues from that spot ; and, accord-
ingly, in due time we arrived there, and for several months he
was an inmate of my house ; and, while under the shadow of
ill health and its consequent sympathetic state, I became in-
timate with many of the loftier and profound secrets of the
celebrated Rosicrucian fraternity, with which he was familiar
and which he gave me liberty to divulge to a certain exent,
conditioned that I forbore to reveal the locality of the lodges
of the Dome, or indicate the persons or names of its chief
officers, albeit, no such restriction was exacted in reference to
the lesser temples of the order--covering the first three de-
grees in this country-to the acolytes of which the higher
lodges are totally unknown. Oh ! how often have I sat beside
him, on the green banks of a creek that ran through my little


THE SPHERE OF THE ORDER.        55

famm and raptly listened to the profoundest wisdom, the 0most
eQalted conceptions and descriptions of the soul, its origin,
nature, powers, and its. destinies-listened to metaphysical
speculations that fairly racked my brain to comprehend, and
all this from the lips of a man totally incapable of grappling
successfully with the money-griping world of barter and of
trade. Here was the most tremendous contradiction, in one
inan, that I had ever known or heard of. One who revelled
in mental luxuries fit for an angel, yet had not forecast
enough to foil a common trickster ;-who blindly, and for
years, reposed his whole trust in one whose sole aim was to
rob him not only of his little competence, but of his character
as a man-who suffered one near and dear to him to starve,
literally, starve to death, and then be buried, at the very
moment that himself and his were luxuriating on the very
money for which that man had bartered health, and almost
lif .itself.! Was it not very singular ?  I have wondered,
ne and again, how such things could be, and intensely :so
when be has been revealing to me some of the loftier mysteries
of the Order ; when talking of Apollonius of Tyanae, the
Platonists, the elder Pythagoreans ; of the Sylphs, Sala pan-
ders and Glendoveers ; of Cardan, and Yung-tse-Soh, and4the
Cabalistic Light ; of Hermes Trisuegistus, and the Sarag-
dine Tables ; of sorcery and magic, white and black; of the
hsabyrinth, and Divine policy ; of the God, and the republic
af gods,; of the truths and absurdities of the gold-seeking
Herreists and pseudo-Rsicrucianss; of Justin Martyr, Ter-
tullan, Cyprian, Lactantius, and the Alexandrine Clejnent ;

of Origen and Macrobius, Josephus and Philo ; of Enoch and
the pre-Adamite races ; of Dambuk and Cekus, Psellus,
Jamblichus, Plotinus and Porphyrius, Paracelsus, and over
seven hundred other mystical authors.
Said he to me one day, "0Do you remember laughing at
ne when I first began to talk about the Rosicrucians ?. and
you asserted that, if such a fraternity eXisted, it must be* com-
posed either of knaves or fools, laughing heartily when in-
formed that the order ramified extensively on both sides of
the grave, and, on the other shore. of time, was known in its
lower degrees as the Royal Order of the Foli, and, towerng
infinitely beyond and above that, was the great Qrder of the
Neridii ; and that whoever, actuated by proper motives,
joined the fraternity on this side of the grave, was not only
.assured of protection, and a vast amount of essential know-
ledge imparted to him here, but also of sharing a lot on the
.farther- side of life, compared to which all .other destinie5
were insignificant and crude. I repeat this assertion nowg

I

LBTTE*


A STARTLING POSSIBILITY.         57

CHAPTER VI.
NAPOLEON III. AND THIE ROSICRUCIANS-AN EXTRAORDINARY
MAN AND AN EXTRAORDINARY THEORY.
BEVERLY continued his very singular narrative, saying :-
"You have already been informed of the singular doom that
hangs over me-that I am condemned to perpetual transmi-
grations, unless relieved by a marriage with a woman in
whom not one drop of the blood of Adam circulates-and
even then, the love must be perfect and mutual. Thus my
chance is about as one in three hundred and ninety-six bil-
lions against, to a single one for me. This doom has
brought around me, as it did around others before me, cer-
tain beings, powers, influences, and at length I became a
voluntary adept in the Rosicrucian mysteries and brother-
hood. How, when, or where I was found worthy of initia-
tion, of course I am not at liberty to tell ; suffice it that I
belong to the Order, and have been-by renouncing certain
things-admitted to the companionship of the living, the dead,
and those who never die ; have been admitted to the famous
Derishavi-Laneh, and am familiar with the profoundest secrets
of the Fakie-Deeva Records ; and through life have had ever
three great possibilities before me : one of these-I being a
neutral soul-is that of becoming after death a chief of a su-

preme order, called the Light ; or of its opposite, called the
Shadow-to Which I am tempted by invisible, but potent agen-
cies ; and the third of which is.the one I dread most-the per-
petuation of the doom to wander the earth for ages, in various
bodies, as the result of the curse pronounced by a dying man
ages ago, as you already have been told, unless I be redeemed
by a true marriage with a woman in whom not one drop of
the blood of Adam circulates. I desire to avoid all three
if possible, and to share the lot of other men.
" I have another mysterious thing to relate to you.
Doubtless you recollect that the curse was uttered by the
young poet-and that the mysterious voice heard in the dun-
geon where he was slain, declared that thenceforth, until the
doom was fully accomplished, this youth during all his ages
should be Known as the Stranger. Well, in the course of
the centuries that rolled away, this Stranger became a mem-
ber of an august Fraternity in the Heavens, known as the
Power of the Light. You know, also, that I, who was the
:king, incurred the penalty of wandering till relieved; and
you are also aware that him who was the Vizier was sen-
tenced to- a singular destiny under the name of Dhoula Bel.
Welly.e also became an active'member of a vast Associa-
tion in the Spaces, known as the Power of the Shadow.
This is but one half of the mystery, for it became the object
-of both Dhoula Bel and the Stranger-,who both knew that
in my: birth from the woman Flora-years before I under-
went my present incarnation-that I would be in every re-
spect a Neutral man  ; one having no tendencies. whatever,
3*

I


58

RAVALETTE.

naturally, to either good or evil, abut only toward .AAu
RENT ;, and as such neutral man, it became possible to forego
-my doom, and to become supreme chief of either of -the Or-
-ders named ; hence both Dhoula Bel and the Stranger, be-
side their original, have the strong additional motive of mak-
ing me subservient to their loftier views ; and to achieve it,
they frequently attend me in visible and invisible shapes-
tempting, nearly ruining, and as often saving me from dan-
gers worse than death itself-in what way has already been
partly told, and will be hereafter seen.
" In one of my frequent sojourns in Paris, I became ac-
Iqainted with a few reputed Rosicrucians, and after sounding
their depths, found the water very shallow, and very muddy
-=as- had been the case with those I met in London--Bul-
wer, Jennings, Wilson, Belfedt, Archer, Socher, Corvaja, and
-other pretended adepts--like the Hitchcocks, Kings, Scotts,
and others of that ilk, on American soil. At length, there
came an invitation from Baron Dft, ornme to attend,
and take part in, a Mesmeric S6ance. I attended ; and from
-the reputation I gained on that occasion, but a few days
elapsed ere I was summoned to the Tuillerios, by command
-of his majesty, Napoleon III.,* who for thirty-four year .had
-been a True Rosicrucian, and whom -I had before met at the-
same place, button -a- different errand : than the present.
JWhat then and there transpired, so far as myself was an ac-
-tor, it is not:for me to say, further than that-certain experi-
* Th is a fact--as is al6 the whole succeeding account- of what took place at
tp dg eprdi ypng.z  : Thuonachroshubkrva1$e s p posy saadA+#A

SEANCE AT THE TUILLERIES.
ments in clairvoyance were regarded as very successful, even
for Paris, which is the centre of the Mesmeric world, and
where there are hundreds who will read you a book blind-
fold ; and two-Alexis, and Adolph Didier-who will do the
same, though the page be inclosed in the centre.of a dozen
boxes of metal or wood, one within the other.
" On this occasion .I had played and conquered at both
chess and'scarte, no word being spoken, the games simulta-
neous, and the players in three separate rooms. There was
present, also, an Italian gentleman with an unpronouncable
name ; a Russian Count Tsovinski, and a Madame Dablin-
a mesmerist and operatic singer. After awhile his majesty
asked the empress, and the general (Pellisier), who after-
wards became the Duke de Malakoff, if they would submit
to a trial of mesmerism by either of the three professors of
the art, named.  They declined;-whereupon the Emperor
speaking aloud, asked 'if any of the company were willing
to test, in their own persons, thevaunted powers of his ex-
cellency, the Italian Count ?' whose methods ,of inducing his
magnetic marvels differed altogether from those uspall
adopted; -,inasmuch as he, like Boucicault, the actor, in his
famous play-'The Phantom'-makes no passes,. scarcel
glances for an instant at his subjects, and invariably looks
away from, not toward them. Now, it is a well-known fact
that everybody believes everybody else, save themselves, sub-
ject to mesmeric influence, as is often demonstrated at the
weekly seances of the Magnetic Society, held in the Rue
Grenelle St. Honoree
a  . A 4  "    i'   _   :. ;  i  , ; ti  }..  t e s _  a 3 .  "S


60

RAVALETTE.

"At the date of this Imperial Seance, spiritualism  had
not yet made public pretensions in France, and although the
Scotch trickster, Daniel fHume, had crossed the Atlantic,
and was at that time living at Cox's, in Jermyn street, Pica-
dilly, London-yet he had not then obtained the notoriety
that subsequently became his, nor had half Europe ran after
those in whose presence tables tipped by heel, toe, and genu-
ine spirit power. Of course, then, spiritual phenomena, so
called, being then under bann, it could not be, and was not
depended on as a means of explaining what there and then
took place.
"'With great pleasure,' said the Count, in reply to a re-
quest to exhibit his power. 'With great pleasure, your
majesty,' and forthwith he turned and looked straight into
a massive mirror that occupied the entire space between two
windows of the saloon. As he spoke it struck me that,
somewhere, at some time, I had met this Italian Rosicrucian,
but where, for the life of me, I could not tell ; yet I was
certain that I had heard that voice, and still more certain
that I had beheld that strange, sweet smile.
The Count's position before the mirror was such that, sup-
posing his eye had been a flaire, the reflected rays would
strike the forehead of one of the company fairly in the cen-
tre. The person upon whom it struck had not the least sus-
picion of what was being done. He did not make the dis-
covery until it was too late, for no sooner did the operator
get him airly in focus, then he clenched his hands,.looked
with ten-fold earnestness at the mirror, muttered to himself

I

MESMERISM   EXTRAORDINARY.             6
a few unintelligible words, and the gentleman fell to the floor
as if his heart had been perforated by a bullet, or as if he
had been struck down with a club. In an instant all was
confusion, everybody thinking it a fit of apoplexy, except the
Emperor, the operator, myself and the Russian.
"Several went to raise him, but before they could do so he
sprung to his feet, began to sing and dance--the truth, at the
same time, flashed upon the company, that the phenomenon
was mesmeric-and in another minute to plead for his life, as
if before his judges, with the prison and the 'axe before
him. The scene was solemn to the last degree.
" Suddenly, and without a word from the Count, the plead-
ing changed to a musical scena ; and although, at other
times totally incapable of singing or playing in the least -de-
gree,.he performed several difficult pieces in magnificent style,
on the harp and piano, acompanying'the performances
vocally, and in a manner that drew involuntary plaudits
from every person present.
This part of the performance was suddenly terminated ;
for these sleeping subject placed himself in the exact spot in
which the Italian had stood, and, like him, gazed steadily at
the mirror, and in twenty seconds.the man who stood in the
line of reflection fell to the floor, and a lady who, in going
to his assistance, chanced to strike that line, instantly seized,
raised him as easily as if je had been a doll, and with him
commenced a dance unique, wild and perfectly indesetibable.
It was infectious, for in less than half a minute seventeen
persons,-high lords and stately dames, were wheeling, whirl.

I'

I


ng, eating, flying about the room in wilder measures than
ere ever performed by mad Bachantes. They. had all been
agnetized by proxy.
"Astonished beyond measure at this extraordinary display,
I retired, the better to watch the progress of the strange
scene,- to the opposite side of the saloon, and leaned care- .
lessly against one of two colossal Japanese josses that stood
^here. No person was anywhere near me, and in my surprise
I murmured below my breath: ' What astonishing power 1'
and am certain that a person standing close at my side could
not have discerned what I said, yet nevertheless the thought
was scarcely framed before the Count turned square upon his
heel, advanced straight toward me, smiled sweetly, strangely,
as he did so, and said: ' All this power is yours-and mueh
Abat is still.ore mysterious-if you but say the word I.
What. word?' asked I, surprised that a man should so
readily read my thought-for it is impossible that he could
have heard my exclamation.
"' That you will voluntarily join the most augtilt fraternity
that ever earth contained ! Think of it I 'We shall meet
again.'
"'When?' where?' I asked huredly, for the august
company were observing us, especially the Emperor, who,
lxneath his heavy brows, was evidently paying quite as much
attention ,to us. aso thie wonderful things then occurring
ross the;Ioom.
~He did not reply directly, bnt, by a continuation of his
breach 4.f etiquette xosumed, saying : ' By the. exercise Qf

'88

the power I possess, and will impart to you, conditionally
you shall be capable of depriving, any man  of speech, and
make man, woman or child perfectly subservient t O yr
silent command, as the people yonder are to mine. Thereis
Jean Boyard,:in this Paris, who merely looks at any'small
oject, and makes it dance toward him. You shall exceed
fifty-fold I on the Boulevart dux Temple  r. ecter
prduces a full-blown rose from   a green bud,, in syen
xmints; you shall be able to do it in one.
"'In the Rue de Bruxelles lives a girl--Julie Vimart-.who
e Ceeds Alexis and all the other sleepers, for she beats you
at chess, tells you all .you. know, and much that you have
forgotten; you shall do all that and more. In thestreet
nd Pyre, lives a boy who brings messages from the tli.
Jug, in their:sleep; meets and converses with your friends..-
when they slumber,,and describes them as perfectly as the su
:an paint their portraits in the: cameras of Talbot and 2Dag-
guerre ; you shall have that power.
"'In the Rue du Jour, is a Sage Femme, who cures all dis-
cases, that are curable, by a simple .touch and prayer: you
shall have that power greater than she can ever hope to.
It is only necessary to say 'I will have these powered arid
4ey shall be yours. They all are well worth having..I
learned my secret among the magi of the East-men. not
9 dfrwlied as are we of the West;.but who,,nererthe-
.es,l At  a great ieal oreitan the sapient me of .Ohris-
tendomtbat is, less. of, mahinery plities, and .finance ;
but a great deal more of the huma    .ol, its uatitre, its

TEE      '   ER.


4, 4                   RAVALETTE.
pQwers, and the methods of their developement. Instead of
being surprised at modern scientific revelations, we of the
True Temple        ' ' What Temple ?' I interrupted him
to ask. ' Of the Supreme Dome of the Rosie Cross,' said he.
"The Emperor must have heard 'this question and its
answer, for he directly crossed over to us, and actually
joined this curious tgte-4-tete. The Count bowed ; did not
seem at all embarrassed by the presence of the son of Admi-
ral Verhuiel,-the great Dutch founder of the Second Empire
-or Emperor
"'As I was saying,' the Count resumed, 'instead of being
elated at what Western science has done, we are ashamed of
the tardy steps of " Progress "-Progress indeed! Where
is it, save in wretchedness, poverty, crime, selfishness, and in
the accrement of misery. Progress is more fancied than real.
Civilization is a misnomer, utilitarianism a desecration .of
man's soul, Philosophy an imposture, and learning altogether
false '
"I was pleased to see the Emperor join the conversation at
this point, for two reasons : first, to hear what he had to
say ; and secondly, to observe whether the subjects on the
floor could be kept under the Count's influence while his mind
,was abstracted from them and centered on matters entirely
different.
"'Do not be disturbed at what he says,' said his majesty,
'for these Mesmerists are all slightly mad.' And he smiled,
while the Count shrugged his shoulders, and exclaimed:
"' With a method, however 1'-"

A SPLENDID POSSIBILITY.

65

9

" Then turning his attention toward the company, by some
inscrutable power he stopped the dance, restored the subjects
to their normal state, and almost instantly thereafter exer-
cised it upon Madame Dablin, who straightway, with closed
eyes, approached a grand piano, swept its keys with match-
less skill, as a prelude, and then launched forth into one of
the strangest, most brilliant, yet wild and weird fantasia,
that genius ever dreamed of. I cannot now stop to describe
its; effect upon the company, nor upon myself, for my whole
being was absorbed at that moment in matters far more im-
portant to me than a mesmeric experiment, however inter-
esting and successful it might be ; for at best, its effect and
memory would be transient and ephemeral, while, on the
contrary, the things I might learn from the Italian might
last so long as my conscious soul endured. I was not, there-
fore, disappointed when he resumed his talk. I cannot now
repeat the ipsissima verba of what he said, but the substance,
in reply to questions by the Emperor and myself, was in
effect this :
"'The soul and its -qualities, passions and volume are all
clearly marked upon the physique, and are apparent to all
who possess the proper key ; to all others, the difficulty lies
in correctly reading these signs, and a still greater in assign-
ing to- each faculty its actual, its possible, and its relative
strength and value. Every act that a man does has an
effect upon both his body and soul, and the imprints thereof
are indelibly stamped upon his features ; therefore his past
-even his most secret act or thought-can be read by the


'~~           R~NALW[TE

adept with as much ease as if his face were a printed; page,
ihe ype being large, smooth and clear. Every man ris
ceptible of being controlled mesmerically by another, because
no man is collectively stronger than his weakest faculty ;F a
.chain is no stronger than its most defective link. Now I
control men ;because I know at a glance which is the most
vulnerable portion of their nature. Self-love, Emulation and
Will are the trinity in unity around which the Psychal Ee-
public revolves. One of these is always vulnerable ; subdue
that, and you subdue the man. Now, ylin I perform such
epe'ripents as those now, being exhibited, I first mesmerize,
got lhe entire brain, but a single faculty, which in turn
speedily subdues all the rest. The mind of man is a mirror
Conceded. Well, then, I forthwith, by an effort of will,ja-
tirely, vacate my own mind, thinking-of nothing but a revolv'
ing wheel. .The subject reflects my action ; then in fancy,
sing, dance, play, and the subject reflects my thought by
appropriate action.'
"'But,' said one, 'suppose your subject understands no'
thing about these accomplishments. How then ?'
"'All. souls understand them. Tpdies may not ; and I,
bring the soul under subjection,.not the body merely.'
"'This is a dangerous power to possess,' said the Emperpr
and none but a god man ought to have it.'
'  bad mpn cannot become a true Rosicrucian, althonh
ng, have tugigd their arms again st the.race, and the; ecf
f . th e  f ra r ity ,  l k e  l  a  th in g s  ,  h v e  b een  trif ed wusfr
BB4 Abuged. Thus it is posile for an gpertjto cure g dis

00'

sPEcWTRA.                   6
eased man by-the exercise of the power alluded to. But
the rule is dual : it is also possible to kill a healthy man by
the same mysterious ieans ;- and indeed it has often been
-done, especially by the natives of Africa.
'I persuade my soul that you are sick and will die, and
if I keep up the will and wish, nothing is more certain than
that both will be accomplished.. Some men naturally possess
enormous powers of will, and are able to project visible
images, like those of a phantasmagoria---images of whatever
they choose to fancy-a flower, -a hand, arm, or a human
m-and these spectra will be visible to scores of startled
observers, who, in their utter ignorance of the human mind
and body, and their respective and ,conjoined powers, believe
them to be the veritable ghosts of . dead men, and objects
produced by them. I learned recently that in London; is at
this moment a young Scotchman, named iHume, who pos-
sesses this power to a remarkable degree, and also that of
levitation, and who is coining fame and fortune by pretend-
ing that the psychical phenomenon is really and truly
spiritual-.which is not the case. I learned this great secret -
in the Punjaub, of Naumsavi Chitty, the chief of the
Rosicrucians of India, and the . greatest reformer sines
Budha.
"At this  point the Emperor asked    the Count - to
exhibit a specimen of. his spectre-producing power, to
.hich the   latter 'assented.  First he walked  rapidly
several times up and down the .saloon,: gave directiona
tb -lower. the=lights, which was done, ,and then, as1:before,


68                RAvALErrE.

he stood still directly in front of the mirror for a minute
or two,' and then, in a sharp, cracked tone, repeated
thrice the word 'Look I' We did so, and as I live, there
flashed the semblance of a thousand chains of vivid lightning
across the face of the mirror, along the floor, over the ceil-
ing, up and down the walls ; now like forks, then as chains
of electric fluid ; anon changing to fiery acorns, which gradu-
ally formed themselves into a fiery crown, rose gently, floated
over the company for a few seconds, and then rested in the
air about five inches above the head of Napoleon III.-a
crown of fire !
"'Mind,' said he, after this splendid proof of his weird
ability, 'I do not aver that all the phenomena exhibited in
these days as spiritual are produced as I have these ; but I
do say that not one-tenth part is attributable to spiritual
agencies. That which is indeed spiritual is not all the pro-
duct of dead men, but much of it proceeds from the Larva
and inhabitants of the spaces between the rolling globes.'.
" Then turning to me, he repeated his invitation to become
an acolyte of the Temple; said we should meet again; and
shortly thereafter the seance broke up, and I~ left the
palace, greatly wiser than when I entered it five hours
before.
"Calling a voiture de remise, I entered it and rode home to
my hotel. Arrived there, I dismounted beneath the glare
of a street lamp, and drew forth my pocket-book to pay my
fare. On opening it, what was my surprise at finding- a
letter, closely sealed, within it. directed to myself. I paid

the coachman, hastened to my chamber, and then, eagerly
tearing the envelope, I read the following very singular let-
ter, written in a female hand, and in the English language :
"'MoNSIEUR,
"'Remember that you have met one human soul who
knows and thoroughly understands your strange, mysterious
and inexplicable nature-your heaven's heights, your hell's
depths, your spacic breadth, your volcanic eruptions, yout-
ocean of god-like calmness, and all-pervading, all-sustaining,
holy stillness and quiet, wherein the soul in its magnificent
grandeur sweeps over all space and all time, and. lives an in-
finity of lives in its own self-created world ! As such I see
and know you. Yet in all this I see still other and a
greater character to arise in your being than now exists
there; I see a character is to arise, if you will allow the
grander, diviner elements of your being, and also the hea-
venly elements that surround you, to blend into one united
force of harmonic intelligence, that will mould your entire
self into a man such as I cannot now describe. Two ways,
my friend, are now before you. One so grand, so sublime,
that I would (in order to explain it) demand the eloquence
of a Patrick Henry, the strength of a Casar, the love of a
greater still, the wisdom of a god ; the other, not all these
combined could give me power to depict.
"' In the name of Him and humanity, choose the right.
"'Such are the feelings of one who knows you.
"'Listen-be quiet ! your time is precious.
"' Adieu !'

ruE MYSTERIOUS LETTER.


RA~LEIT~.ADVENTURE IN  NAPLES.

" This was Greek, Hebrew, Sanscrit, all combined, to me;
and it continued so for a long, long time. It was evidently.
written by some one who, while fully aware of one of my
weaknesses--a susceptibility to flattery-yet knew not the
man himself. Still, the allusions to my awful secret were
too palpable to admit a doubt that the writer knew far more
than that strange letter said or hinted at. Was it the mys-
terious Count ?  If so, why did he take so great an interest
in e stranger ? I could not understand it.
"Of course I thought much of the Italian Count, and
ardently longed to know more of, if I did not join,, the mys-
tic Fraternity whereof he was a member ; but to no human
being had I ever opened my mind upon the subject, either in
Paris, or Naples, whither I repaired on my way to the
Orient. Indeed, in the latter city the subject lay prdu in
the cellars of my mind, for I sought to banish all care while
in Italkin order to drink full draughts of music-that balm
for fevered souls.
"Wiile there,. I one night went to San Carlos to hear the
opera of the 'Barber of Seville,' and to listen to the glorious
strains of Mario, Grisi and Gassier. I had been charmed
out of all my griefs by the celebrated 'Music. Lesson' of
the latter cantatrice, and as I walked homeward I hummed
its notes as I passed along, and it rung in my ears long after
I had lain down to sleep. With the peculiar caution of
Americans generally, but of Californians especially--whose
habits I had imbibed during my short residence within the
Golden ;ate-before retiring I had carefully examined the

room, for Italians, especially Neapolitans, bear watching, to
see that all was safe and right. It was so. Then securely
fastening both doors and windows, I was soon drifting up
and down the Dream -Sea. Beneath my pillow was my
money belt, in which was about two thousand dollars in gold,
which, together with a revolver, loaded to the muzzle, was
the property of my friend T-s.
"In the morning the room was as when I slept ; but the
charges were drawn from the pistol, and the gold lay on the
table arranged in the form of a triangle, surmounted by the
letter 'R' while, pinned to the bosom of my sleeping robe,
was a note in English, in a bold, clear handwriting, but in
red ink. That note was not there the night before ; it
could not have been placed there by human hands! 'Do
not fail,' it read, 'to remember the purpose for which you
crossed the seas, for your enterprise concerns the future ages
of'the world ! It is not yet accomplished. Achieve it. I
will yet serve and save you.-E.'
"I was thunder-struck. Again some mysterious being was
crossig my path ; that being whose strange domain lay on
either side of Time, and whose will seemed ever to hedge me
about like a wall of fire, so that escape from the strange
destiny that hung over me seemed almost impossible. I was
in despair, for already had grey hairs shown themselves; I
felt that I was growing prematurely old, and that the chances
were greatly against me, a son of Adam, ever wedding with
a daughter of Ish."

:470              RAVALETTE.

-4


THE FRATERNITY-R. 0.

7

BOOK II.

CHAPTER I.
ABOUT THE ROSICRUCIANS.
IT is no part of my (the editor's) design to recount all the
adventures of Beverly, nor to trace his paths through Egypt,
Syria, Turkey, nor Europe. Suffice it, that I became so inte-
rested in his story that I accompanied him on more than one
long journey. Occasionally I would lose sight of him for
months together, but by the strangest seeming accident we
would meet again, now on the top of Ghizeh's great pyra-
mid, now in the deserts of Dongola and Nubia ; then in a
French cafe, anon in the columned groves of Karnak and
of Thebes. We often parted, and as often met again ; and in
the interim I had not failed to investigate certain grave
secrets which he had confided to me. I did not fully believe
his strange doctrines ; but I am sure that he did, and there.
fore he commanded my sympathy and respect. As previously
indicated, on my first acquaintance with him I was exceed-
ingly sceptical in regard to the existence, in these days, of
the Brotherhood of the Rosie Cross, and derided his assertions
respecting their powers. True I had heard much, and read
-     -

more, concerning the celebrated fraternity-an association
that has proved a veritable God-send to scores of paper-
stainers in all parts of the globe where letter s reign, as wit.
ness Charles Mackay, Kingsley, Robert Southey, and fifty
others, not omitting Buiwer Lytton, his "Zanoni," and
" Strange Story," nor Hargrave Jennings -and his " Curious
Things" about " Fire " and the " Outside World."
In my varied travels through Europe and the East, as
well as in this, my native land, I have met with scores, not
to say hundreds, who boasted themselves Rosicrucians ; and
it is but a little while since there appeared, in a " spiritual"
sheet in Boston, first a learned lecture, by a female "medium,"
on the Rosicrucians, and a long communication, purporting
to come from a deceased adept of the Order, both of which
were quite laughable by reason of the total and utter igno.
rance displayed. Probably both of these " enlighteners" had
heard or read of Dr. Everard's " Compte de Gabalis," and
took that humorous bit of badinage as the real, simon-pure
explanation of Rosicrucianism  as, indeed, was natural, see-
ing that hundreds have fallen into the same comical error;
for, upon applying the touch-stone to all these pretended
adepts in the secrets, sublime and mighty, of the Order, it is
found that, exceptionless, they are woefully deficient in even
the rudiments of the genuine fraternity ; nor have these
modern pretenders any more real claims to the. truth than
the hordes of fanatics which swarmed all over Europe an age,
or two ago, and who brought ineffable disgrace both upon
themselves and the sublime name which they stole.


THE ROSICBUOIAN ORDER.

:A good gold coin passes very quietly through the world;
but your counterfeit makes a great noise wherever it may,
chance to' be ; Aso with the pseudo-Rosierucians. The latter
created.a sensation, and then disappeared, only occasionally
jingling their bells to let the world know that the fools were
not all defunct ; while the true Brotherhood went on, and
still goes on, quietly performing its mission.
Every student of history is, or ought to be, aware that
the pretended " adepts" in past times laid claim to enormous
amounts of the most wonderful knowledge, but when put to
the proof; invariably failed to substantiate their claims.
Such were the men who sought, and, in some instances, pre.
tended to have succeeded, in accomplishing the composition
of the Philosopher's Stone and the great Elixir.
Vaughan, in.his "Hours with the Mystics,' laughs at the
idea that there"ever was really such a society as that of the
Brethren of the Rosie Cross, and alleges that they were but
the "Mrs. Harris" of certain romancers of the past two
centuries ; in other words, that they are altogether mistaken
who suppose such a society ever had existence. Baron
Fischer, now of San Francisco, declares that there  ally was
such an order, but that it was composed of Fools, Fanatics,
and Moon-struck Madmen, who in time became the laughing-
stock of all Europe. On the other hand, Lyd/e, the traveller,
asserts positively, in his great work, " The Asian Mystery,",
that he has traced the Order, under one or more of its names,
back into the very nighttime of the world's history. And-
Abdul Rahman, the Arabian author, boldly declares that -

has proved, the existence of this Brotherhood in ages so
remote that Christian and Jewish history is modern in come
parison.
Hein, Hun--Tse-Foh, the Chinese annalist, asserts, that
the Order originated in Tartary thousands of years before the
foundation of the. Chinese empire, itself claiming- an age of
over thirty thousand solar years ! From Tartary it went to
Japan, thence to China, thence to Persia, thence to Arabia,
thence to India, and, by stages, to Europe, having passed
through Egypt, Jewry, and Phenicia on its way down the
ages.
So much for Vaughan ; now for another "authority."
Under the letter "R," in the American Encyclopedia, oc-
curs the word "Rosicrucians," followed by-.-" Members of a
society, the existence of which became unexpectedly known
at the beginning of the seventeenth century. Its object was
ostensibly the reformation of Church, State, and individuals,
but closer examination showed that the discovery of the
Philosophers' Stone was the true object of the fully initiated.
A ce-tain Christian, Rosenkrauze, who was said to have
lived long among the Brahmins in Egypt, etc., was pretended
to have founded the Order in the fourteenth century; but the
real. founder is believed to have been one Andrea, a German
scholar, of the beginning of the sixteenth century, whose ob-
ject, as is thought, was to purify Religion, which hadbeen
degraded by Scholastic Philosophy. Others think that he
.only gave a new character to a society founded before him
by Cornelius Agrippa, of Nettesheim. Krause, the author,

RAVALETTE.


STILLING AND THE ROSICRUCIANS.     77

76

- RAVALETTE.

says, that "Andrea occupied his time from early youth with
the plan of a secret society for the improvement of mankind.
In 1614 he published his famous " Reformation of the Whole
Wide World," and hi-" Fama Fraternitas." . Christian en-
thusiasts and alchemists considered the poetical society, par-
tially described in these. books, as having 'a real existence,
and thus Andrea became the author of the later Rosicrucian
fraternities which extended over Europe. After a number
of books had been written on the Rosicrucian system, and
the whole exploded, the interest in it was revived in the lat-
ter half of the eighteenth century, in consequence of the 'abo-
lition of the Order of Jesuits, and the story of their machina-
tions, as well as of the frauds of Cagliostro and other noto-
rious impostors."
So much for the wiseacre who wrote this account at so
much a line for the " American Encyclopedia."
In juxta-position to the above, I quote part of pages.
132-3-4 and 5, verbatim, of the autobiography of Heinrich
Jung, Stilling, late Aulic Counsellor to the Grand' Duke
of Baden. London : 1858. James Nisbet, Berners street.
3d Edition. Says this incomparable man :
" One morning in the spring of 1.796, a handsome young
man, in a green silk-plush coat, and otherwise well dressed,
came to Stilling's house at Ockershaussen. This gentleman
introduced himself in such a manner as betrayed a polished
and genteel education. Stilling inquired who he was, and
learnt that he was the remarkable       . Stilling was
astonished at the visit, and his astonishment was increased

by the expectation of what this extremely enigmatical indi-
vidual might have to" communicate. After both had sat
down, the stranger began by saying that he wished to con-
sult Stilling relative to a person diseased in the eyes. How.
ever, the real object of his visit pressed him in such a manner
that he began to weep ; kissed, first, Stilling's hand, then his
arm, and said: 'Sir, are not you the author of the "Nos-
tolgia ?"' 'Yes,. sir.' 'You are,- therefore, one of my
secret superiors' (in the Grand Lodge of the R. C.)  Here
he again kissed Stilling's hand and arm, and wept almost
aloud. Stilling, answered : 'No, dear sir ; I am neither
your nor any one else's secret superior. I am not in any secret
connection whatever.' The stranger looked at Stilling with
a fixed eye, and inward emotion, and replied : 'Dearest
friend, cease to conceal yourself ! I have been long tried, and
severely enough. I thought you.knew me already' Stil-
ling : 'No, Mr. ---, I assure you solemnly that I stand
in no secret connection, and in reality understand nothing of
all that you require of me!1'
"This speech was too 'strong and too serious to leave the
stranger in uncertainty. It was now his turn to be aston-
ished and amazed. He therefore continued : 'But tell me,
then, how is it that you know anything of the great and vene-
rable connection in the East which you have so circumstan-
tially described in the "Nostolgia," and have even pointed
out their rendezvous in Egypt, on Mount Sinai, in the Mon.
astery of Canobin, and under the Temple at Jerusalem?' 'I
know nothing of all this,' replied Stilling. ' But these ideas


AMERICAN E&amp;OSRUCIAN TEMPLE.      79

presented themselves in 'a very lively manner to my inagina-
tion. It was, therefore, mere fable And fiction.
"'Pardon me, the matter is the truth and reality as you have
described it. It is astonishing that you have hit it in such a
manner-this cannot have come by chance!1' The gentleman
now related the real particulars of the association in the East.
Stilling was amazed and astonished beyond measure-; for he
heard remarkable and extraordinary things, which are not,
however, of such a nature as can be made public. I only
affirm that what Stilling learnt from the gentleman had not
the most remote reference to political.matters.
"About the same time a certain great prince wrote to
Stilling, and asked him 'How it was that he knew anything
about the association in the East, for the thing was as he had
'described it in the " Nostolgia."' The answer was naturally
the same as that given verbally to the above-mentioned
stranger. Stilling has experienced several things of this
kind, in which his imagination exactly accorded with the real
fact without previously having the least knowledge or pre-
sentiment of it. How it is, and why it is, God knows.
Stilling makes no reflections upon the matter, but lets it
stand upon its own value, and looks upon it as a direction of
Providence, which purposes leading him in a distinguished
manner. The development of the Eastern mystery is, how-
ever, a most important matter to him, because it has relation
to the Kingdom of God. Much, indeed, remains in obscu-
rity ; for Stilling afterwards heard from another person of
great consequence, something of an Oriental Alliance which

was of a very different kind. It remains to be developed
whether the two are distinct or identical."
Thus: far Jung Stilling. Quite recently I became aware
of the existence of Rosicrucian Lodges in this country,
obtained much information concerning the Fraternity, and
have been- privileged to publish the following Seven Para-
graphs, concerning the exoteric practice of the Temple:
THE ROSIORUCIANS,
WHO    AND WHAT THEY        ARE.
Honor, Manhood, Goodness.
TRY.
I. The Rosicrucians are a body of good men, and true,
working under a Grand Lodge Charter, deriving its_ power-
and authority from the Imperial Dome of the Third Supreme
Temple of the Order, and the last (claiming justly to be the
oldest association of men on earth, dating from the sinking of
the New Atlantis Isle, nearly ten thousand years anterior to
the days of Plato), and as a Grand Lodge, having jurisdiction
over the entire continent of North America, and the Islands
of the Sea. The Grand Lodge, and Temple, grant charters
and dispensations to found or organize subsidiary lodges-and
temples, anywhere within the limits of its jurisdiction.
II. All Rosicrucians are practical men, who believe in
Progress, Law and Order, and in .Self-development. They
believe firmly that God helps those that help themselves ;
and they consequently adopt as the motto of the Order, the

;
,I
.
,i
I      s
_9
,F
e
.J
,
3
k
.

EAVAL  rE.,


8AVALETTE.

word TRY, and they believe that this little word of three
letters. may become a magnificent bridge over which a man
may travel from Bad to Better, and from Better to Best---
from ignorance to knowledge, from poverty to wealth, and
from weakness to power.
III. We constitute a large society in the world, and our
ranks bid fair to largely swell in this land of Practical Men.
There are hundreds of men of large culture, deep intuitions
and liberal minds, who actually languish because they do not
know each other-there being no organized body, save our
own, which invites such men to join its ranks and find the
fellowship which such men of such minds need. In our
Lodges such men find all they seek, and more ; in our
weekly reunions the rarest and best intellects are brought in
contact, the best thoughts are elicited, and the truest human
pleasure experienced ; forasmuch, as nothing impure, igno-
ble, mean or unmanly, is for an instant tolerated under any
circumstance whatever ; while, on the .contrary, every in-
ducement is held out to encourage all that is noble, good,
true, beautiful, charitable and manly-and that, too, in a
way totally unknown and unpractised in any other order, or
association of men.
IV. Every Rosicrucian is known, and is the sworn brother
of every other Rosicrucian the wide world over, and as such
is bound to render all possible aid and comfort (except when
such aid would sanction crime or wrong doing, or interfere
with the demands of public justice, social order, decency,
sound morals or National prosperity and unity). In all

RULES OF THE ORDER.

81

things else, every Rosicrucian is bound to help* another, so
long as he' can. do it with a clear conscience, and not violate
his. honor, derogate from  his personal dignity, or sully his
own manhood. In all things worthy, one assists the other ;
in sickness, sorrow, life, death, and the troubles and trials of
the world and society. Each man is eligible to one, two, or
three degrees ; and after once becoming a true Rosicrucian,
it is next to impossible that he can ever afterward come to
want, either for protection in all that is just, counsel in diffi-
culty, food, raiment, shelter, and all true human sympathy ;
-all of which is freely rendered so long as the man remains
a worthy DWELLER IN THE TEMPLE!        .
Thus the Temple ensures its acolytes against want, miti-
gates their sorrow, enhances their usefulness to themselves
and the world, braces and sharpens their intellects, fires their
emulation, encourages all manly effort, assuages their grief,
cultivates their hope, strengthens their self-reliance, self-
respect, self-effort ; it frowns on all wrong doing, seeks to
elevate man in his own esteem, teaches due and loyal respect
to woman, the laws, society and the world ; it promotes sta-
bility of character, makes its votaries strive for MANHOOD in
the full, true sense ; adopts " Try" and " Excelsior" -as liv-
ing, practical mottoes ; and thus, both directly and indi-
rectly, does the Temple of Rosicrucia seek to increase the
sum total of human happiness in the world, within and with-
out its walls.
V. Every man pays an initiation fee, and a monthly tax
4*

80o

R
1
1
''
E
k
i    l
f
:
.r
.!
'
+         S
'
.
't
_{    _    .
e
,f
r
F
1           ,
Y
i
5
1y  'tc
t        .
ii
i
f
. j
.t
3
'  .
4
U
'
! ry t
it
}j;
I


'82

MAVALETTE.

of one dollar.   In return for which, the member has the aM.
vantage of all information the Lodge may be able to procure
in the shape of lectures, debates, books, scientific papers,
models, experiments in all the physical sciences, essays on
philosophy, etc.; 'in addition to which he is allowed a sum,
varying from four to fourteen dollars' a week when sick, pro-
vided he needs such aid ; he is visited, comforted, nursed,
doctored, and, should he die, the Temple buries him-as a
man and a Rosicrucian should be buried.       If he dies an offi-
cer (and every man is eligible), his widow and children are
properly cared for by the Order.*
VI. This Order is a school of the highest and best know-
ledge the earth affords.   It is unlike any and all others, for,
in-addition to being a Mutual Protection Society, it reaches
out in far higher and nobler aims-only a few, very few, of
which   are  alluded to in this hand-book, which is merely
printed to save much explanatory talk oil the part of Rosi-
crucians who are being continually importuned for informa-
tion respecting the said Order. One of its main objects is
to be a School of Men ; to make men more useful by ren-
dering them stronger, more knowing, therefore wiser--there-
fore happier.   As Rosicrucians we recognize the immense
* The Grand Lodge contemplates the enactment of laws looking to the
providing for the families of members when sick, and to their burial when dead,
which *111 be- secured by the payment of additional fees from time to time.
It also contemplates a system of life insurance of its members, who, by the
payment of certain fees, may secure a certain sum to their families at death
sufiolent to maintain them in comfort, but not in luxury or idleness. The
system will probably be one of graduated annuities.

83

value of Sympathy, Encouragement, Emulation and Per-
sistency--
Nil mortalibus, ardum est.
THERE IS NO DIFFICULTY. TO HIM WHO TRULY WILLS I
Whatever of good or great man has ever done, may still
be accomplished by you and I, my brother, if we only think
so, and set about in right good earnest, and no mistake.
TRY ! We proclaim the OMN4POTENCE OF WILL ! and we
-declare practically, and by our own achievements demon-
strate, the will of man to be a supreme and all-conquering
force when once fairly brought into play, but this power is
only negatively strong when exerted for merely selfish or per-
sonal ends; when or wherever it is called into action for good
-ends, nothing can withstand its force. Goodness is Power ;
wherefore we take the best of care to cultivate the normal
will, and thus render it a mighty and powerful engine for
Positive Good. You cannot deceive a true Rosicrucian, for he
soon learns how to read you through and through, as if you
were a man of glass ; and he attains this power by becoming
a Rosicrucian only, nor can it be had through any other
means whatever. -The Temple teaches its acolytes how to re-
build this regal faculty of the human soul-the will ; how to
strengthen, purify, expand, and intensify it ; and one of the
first results observable after a man has become a true Rosi-
crucian, is that his vanity grows smaller by degrees, and
beautifully less; for the first thing he fully realizes is that -all
he knows would probably make quite a large book, but that
all he does not know would make a book considerably larger,

THE SECRET OF SUCCESS.

t
Y
i
J
f
f:
s
j
s
r
r
r,
t
P
'f
3
i
.5
PY
ii
:F
S           i
J
1
tI
IY C
4
ei
ui
i#
,i


BAVALETTE.

and he therefore sets himself to learn. Where there's a will
there's a way ; and after getting rid of self-conceit, the man
finds himself increasing in mental stature by imperceptible
gradations, and finds himself a learned man by a process
which he cannot fairly comprehend, and one which is neither
appreciated or known outside of the Temple.
As a consequence of travelling on this royal road to know-
ledge, the Posicrucian soon learns to despise the weakness
of wickedness, not by reason of any long-faced cant being
poured into his ear, but because he finds out practically that
manhood and virtue are safe investments, while badness or
meanness won't pay. It is the universal testimony of all
who have become true Rosicrucians, that within its symbolic
walls there is a deeply mysterious influence for good pervad-
ing its atmosphere, under which every man Hof the Order be-
comes rapidly but normally individualized and intensified in
/ character, manhood, and influence.  ,
VII. The doors of our Lodges are never closed against the
honest, honorable or aspiring man ; nor can any earthly po-
tentate, no wielder of an empire's sceptre, no wearer of a
kingly crown, gain admission by reason of his eminence ; for
though he be a king, he may not be a MAN, a title far above
all others on the earth--a title nobler than any other ever
earned by mortals ! We Rosicrucians are proud of our emi-
nence-and justly so-.-for we are a BROTHERHOOD OF MEN!I
and recognize MANHooD as the true kingship; hence we honor
that man highest who knows the most, and puts his know-
ledge to the highest and noblest uses; not only toward .his

brothers, but in any field in the world's great garden, for
are not we all brethren ?  Does not the one great God rule
over and love us ? Even so ! No man can enter our doors
by reason'of his wealth, for riches, unless put to manly uses,
are detrimental ;-bad-positively injurious !  No man can
enter our doors by reason of his fame, politics, or religion.
The Order has nothing to do with a man's politics or religion,
and it matters not what a man's creed is, so long as he is A
MAN. The Baptist is welcome, but not as a Baptist ; and so
with men of all other faiths. No religion, no faith, no poli-
tics can be discussed from our platform, nor will their intro-
duction be- tolerated one moment. We accept men of all
creeds, except such as outrage decency, manhood, sound
morals, and public order, such as Free Lovers, Mormons,
and birds of that feather ; nor can any such person enter
our ranks, no matter who he may be, or how high in fame or
social place. Noman is barred out of our Temple by rea.
son of his poverty, for physical beggars are often kings in
mind. All we ask or seek for in a man is HoNoR, HONESTY,
and ambition to KNOW MORE AND BE BETTER.
Usually the Lodges of Rosicrucia meet once a week to
hear lectures, exchange courtesies, thoughts, news ; to listen
to invited guests, debate questions in art, science, and philo-
sophy ; to mutually inform and strengthen each other ; to
investigate any and all subjects of a proper nature, and to
cultivate that manly spirit and chivalric bearing which so
well entitles their possessor to be called A MAN. These are a
few of the good things of Rosicrucia. We seek no man--
men seek us. Our facilities for obtaining knowledge end in-

85'

F
s
' R
x
t
44 2:
!3
Z
,s
"s
1 .}
t
ft
i
l
h

84:

A GOOD RULE.

S
rr
J            tj
7             }
i
4r
st
r
1
,i
i
F.
k
r s           r
1


SCOPE OF ROSICRUCIA.            87*

formation on all subjects are, as may well be conceived, un-
surpassed-unequalled. Financially we are satisfied. A
Temple of Rosicrucia never yet felt the pressure of an ex-
hausted exchequer, and probably never will. But this last
is the least commendable thing about the Institution ; yet it
uses money for good purposes, and therefore has its chest
supplied.  All other essential information respecting the
Order can be obtained BY TRYING!   -
It will be seen that there is nothing magical here, yet I
do not doubt but the members could tell strange stories if
they chose.
Many, but by no means all, the Alchemists and Herme-
tic Philosophers were acolytes of that vast secret Brother-
hood, which has thrived from the earliest ages, and, under
different names in different lands, has performed, is still per-
forming its mission. The members of this mystic union were
the Magi of old, who flourished in Chaldea (Mesopotamia)
ages before one of their number (Heber) left his. native
plains, and on- foreign soil founded the Hebraic confedera-
tion. They were the original Sabi and Sabeans, who for
long ages preceded the Sages of Cbaldea. They were the
men who founded that Semitic civilization, the faint shade
of which we find, having leaped long avenues of centuries,
in the mouldy records of early China, itself numbering its
years by the thousand. Of this great Brotherhood sprung
Brabma, Buddha, La-tze, Zoroaster, Plato, the Onostics,
the Essenes, and therefore Christ himself-who was an
Essene, and who preached the sacred doctrines of the Moun-

tain of Light. They were the Dreamers of the ages-the sun
of the epochs-eclipsed occasionally, but anon bursting forth.
in glory again. They were the men who first discovered the
significance of Fire ; and that there was something deeper
than Life in man ; profounder than Intellect in the universe.
Whatever of transcendent light now illumes the world, comes
from the torches which they lit at the Fountain whence all
light streameth upon that mystic mountain which they alone
had courage and endurance to climb, and climbed, too, over
a ladder whose rungs were centuries apart. Hermes Tris-
megistus, Egypt's mighty king, and that other Hermes
(Asclepius IX.), was an adept, a brother, and a Priest--as
was Malki Zadek before him-that famous Pre-Adamite
monarch, that Melchisedek, who was reputed to have been
born of a Thought, and to have lived for countless ages.
And so with the Greek Mercurius. Theirs, too, was that
wondrous learning wherein Moses was skilled ; and at their
fountain the Hebrew Joseph drank. Nothing 'original in
Thaumaturgy, Theology, Philosophy, Psychology, Entology,
and Ontology, but they gave it to the world ; and when
Philosophers thought they had gained new thoughts and
truths, the records of the Order prove them,-to have been old
ages before the Adamic era of Chronology, and to have
been the common property of the adepts.
I have been led into these remarks and explanations,
first, for the purpose of finally and authoritatively settling the
vexed question concerning the Rosierucians, and, to throw
light on that which is-to follow.

9+
{
A
1'
,
rr
!x
,
n '
,
,'
!r
r
r
{
!4
ii ye
t
)S.
f
4
it
YY

,a
G
a
S
c
l
tr
ii
S  {
,a

. :8,6                         RA

r


MRS. G., THE ccMEDIU8M.9

CHAPTER II.
wHo wAS HE ?--WHAT WAS IT?
"I MADE," said Beverly to me one day, " my projected
tour, and had returned much wiser than I went, but no nearer,
the consummation of my chief hope.i I had begun the practice
of medicine in the city of Boston, and occupied an office
reputed to have been haunted by the troubled ghosts of sun-
dry persons who were there -attracted by some strange influ-
ence. I laughed a't, and ridiculed the pretensions of scores
of so called seers, who claimed to behold these flitting gentry.
"There came to my office one day-it was a very stormy
day in the latter part of the winter of the year in the spring
of which I was so neatly. swindled-there came, I repeat, on
a stormy day, when the snow fell thick and fast; when the
fierce wind blew, and the Frost-king was busily engaged in
putting icy manacles upon all that he could reach-a lady to
consult me upon a case'of scrofula in her child. At that
time my reputation in that specialty was great and con-
stantly increasing ; for I had but a few months before intro-
duced and practised the method 'of treating that order of
diseases, taught me in Constantinople by the famous negro
sage of that metropolis. I prepared the materials required,
and stood waiting for her to leave, the office, as I was anxi-
40$ 0

ous to continue the perusal of some Hieratic manuscripts lent
me. that day by a lettered friend in Dedham. She made no
movement indicative of leaving ; but instead, challenged, me.
to a discussion of some spiritual subject or other, which chal,
lenge I, from an innate horror of all strong-minded male-
feminines, respectfully declined. She called herself my friend,
and was, if sticking to one is a title to the name. She pos-
sessed all the qualities of the be  adhesive plaster-it was
impossible to get rid of her presence. She declared that she
constantly saw, and held conversations with the dead, and she
would then and there give a proof of her qualifications in that
direction ; whereupon she was instantly seized with an ex-
ceedingly violent trembling, accompanied with any amount of
spasmodic jerks and twitchings; I had witnessed such things
before, and consequently did not feel alarmed at Mrs. Gra.
ham's condition, but going into the rear office I procured a chair
and sat down to wait for demonstrations; which, when they
came, were but so many pretty word-paintings---commonplae
counsel and advice addressed to me by what purported' tobe
my mother-which latter, however, appeared to have for-
gotten her name, my own, and when and where she departed
this life. I was perfectly certain that it was not my mo-
ther, and equally so that Mrs. Graham was not consciously
acting the part of an impostor, and I accounted for the phe-
nomenon on the Rosicrucian theory, then quite new to me,
that she was obsessed, or possessed, by and with a distinct
individuality entirely foreign to her own. To my mind the
thing was certain that she, like scores of thousands of others

i
'U
4

,
,E.
; ,
5     r
3
f
i
1L       ,
!

89

ti
oe
t.;
f
F
{
Yt
41'
l
r_;
: ,'
"
F  .
4f
f
'
., ,e


THE STRANGE LITTLE OLD MAN.

are, was for the time being under the absolute control and
dominion of a Will a myriad times stronger than that of any
living human being that ever tenanted a body on this terraque-
,ous globe of ours-beings perfectly intelligent, powerful, invi-
sible, and totally conscienceless, wherein is a great difference
from human beings.
" The lady came around in a few minutes, and I frankly
stated my opinion to her. It was new and startling. 'Not
minan spirits-yet intelligent ?  An intelligent thing--and
guileful? It is dreadful! Horrible I What, then, is that
Thing ?  Angels ? -"No !  Devils ?  If so, whence come
they ?  Why?   For what end ?'
"These were terrible questions ; and we talked about the
matter, the lady and I, as we sat in the back office, near the
fire, for it was very cold ; and she sat leaning on the desk
near the window, and I sat near the door between the offices,
by back nearly touching it. The outer door, which opened
on the stair-landing, was closed, and a wire was so attached
to it that it could not be opened, or even the latch be raised,
without touching a spring that instantly rung a bell that was
suspended directly over my head in the rear office. I used
this rear office as a reading-room and laboratory, and I fre-
quently became so absorbed in my reading or chemistry, that
nothing less than the ringing of that bell would suffice to
divert my attention.
"And there and thus we sat and talked for more than three
long hours. The .strong-minded woman's soilr had at last
really been aroused ; while I once more brought to the sur-

face my Rosicrucian lore. In thought and speech we tra-
versed a score of conjectural worlds and labyrinths of Be-
ing ; until, at' last: 'Are there, really, any intelligent, but
viewless bei gs, other-than man, in all the broad universe--
I mean othe- than man as he is here, and disembodied like-
wise ?---that's t e question,' said the lady by the desk.
"'Of corse there are ! MYRIADS !' said a clear, manly voice
in the room, right straight from the centre of the triangle
formed by the desk, the door and the southern wall of the
office ! It was not the lady who thus relief to her own
question ! It was not I who spoke ; nor, strange as it after-
wards appeared, did the circumstance strike me as being at
all out of the common. And, therefore, without an instant's
hesitation, I rejoined to the observation of the speaker, whom
I subsequently remember to have observed was a thin, strange-
looking, scrawny, shrivelled little old man, with the queerest
possible little sharp grey eyes. He looked half frozen, and
acted so, for he advanced toward some shelves and proceeded
very leisurely to warm his hands over my laboratory furnace,
between the door and wall. The lady appeared no more sur-
prised than myself at the inexplicable presence of this singu-
lar intruder.
"' I am not so sure of that,' I replied, in answer to the
words uttered by the strange old man-.' I am not so sure
that there are such beings in existence.'
"'Then you're a greater fool than I took you for I Good
evening!1' And he moved slightly toward the door, against
which my chair firmly stood.

!fit
;)
1
r
1

vi

_0#

EAVALETTE.

91

r  J -ta
;. _    sr  +
. , '^.   :'


2AVAL1arrE.

"'Don't go yet, for I want you to explain,' said the lady.
'Don't you think he ought to ?' turning to me with a very
peculiar earnestness expressed in her countenance, especially
in her eyes-very peculiar eyes at all times, but lit up in the
most extraordinary manner at that moment.  'I think he
ought to prove his statement, and not leave us in this state of
uncertainty. It is positively cruel 1' And, as she spoke, her
eye met mine, and fastened it as if the encountering glances
were riveted together.
"There must be some magic in the soul that is only flashed
forth on very rare occasions, else why did her glance so fix
my gaze for ten seconds that I could not stir ? At the end
of that space of time the fascination ended, and, raising my
eyes, I answered-.
"'CertainlyI he ought to explain ; and, of course,' said I,
turning towards the man-' of course, you will explain your-
self, and----?
" There was no man there ! Not even a sign that he had
been. He had disappeared, gone, utterly vanished-not
through the window, for that was a clear fall of seventy feet
to the ground, besides which it had been securely nailed down
for over four months-not through the door, for my chair
and back were against it I
"Mrs. Graham fainted, and fell prone upon the floor !
" Ilived in Charlestown, and reached home rather early that
evening. Not that I was frightened. Oh, no! but because home
seemed cheerier than the office; for the weather was bitterly

CHARLESTOWN, MASS.

93

cold, and the storm-spirits were holding high, tempestuous revels
in the common and the bay ; and, ever and anon, as the shiver-
ing pedestrian jogged along, and turned the sharp corners of
what is literally and emphatically, and in more senses than
one, the most angular city in the world, the blast would meet
him square in the face, side-ways, and all around him in the
same blessed moment of time, no matter which way he headed ;
for a Boston snow-storm blows every way at once-here it is
due north, around the corner it is south-east, behind you it is
north-west; over the way it blows straight up, and in the
middle of the street it blows straight down.
" It was hard work travelling the four miles to my home that
night, for every step had to be wearily footed. True, there
were street cars, but no man in Boston ever remembers one
going the right way when most it was wanted ; but every-
body can find scores coming, when everybody is bent -upon
going.
" Well, after a perilous walk, I at last reached home, and
gladly sat down to my comfortable supper of toast and tea
in my snug little parlor-the same little parlor where I wrote
my book and received the loan of money to publish it, which
money I was afterwards deprived of by the financial acumen
of as great a soundrel as ever went loose upon the world.
" Oh, how it stormed outside ! and oh, how warm and cosy
was the little snug harbor into which I had just moored
myself !
"It was the second cup of tea-orange pekoe it was, for I
had bought it of a Chinaman in Boston, who knew all about
tea---and the second slice of, toast that I was discussing, along

F{(
1'

.1
1 a

92

7
If
(ja}
i
:
1
,1
Z
}


SECRET OF PERPETUAL LIFE.

RAVALETtE.

with my daily paper, when suddenly there came a loud, im-
perative double knock at the door, similar to that of an Eng-
lish postman. when in a hurry to deliver his letters.  The
door was immediately opened by a servant, who thought some
one had been taken suddenly, ill, and that I had been sent for
professionally. But what was my astonishment when in
stalked, with as much ease and nonchalance as if he belonged
there, no less a personage than the mysterious little old man
of the afternoon. I was thunderstruck. It was the same
person who had treated me so rudely, and who had first come
and then gone again so unaccountably, and who had induced
an illness in Mrs. Graham that resulted in causing her to for-
ever abandon her mediumatic practices--the same that has
sent so many scores of people to premature graves, and will
send thousands more. The strange man advanced toward
the fire, and exclaimed-
"'What a fright I caused you and your guest this after-
noon ! Ha! -ha ! It was 5apital-was it not?'_
".And again he laughed, but this.time in a manner and with -
a voice which, had it not been, for the immense physical dis-
parity apparent, I could have sworn was that of the Italian
Count in Paris. But this supposition was hardly possible.
The man before me was so decidedly human, that, by a rapid
and comprehensive induction, I concluded that Mrs. Graham
and myself had been victimized for sport by one who was
perfect master of the mesmeric art. This hypothesis was
quite pOausible, only I could not- account for tire non-ringing
of the office bell.; and the-idea seemed at that time quite pre-
posterous that any one could successfully magnetize the clap-

per of a bell into silence. I learned more afterwards. Neither
did it seem quite reasonable that this man had, before enter-
ing the office at all, exerted his power upon our senze of
hearing, rendering us deaf.
"To his remark I replied, rather sententiously,.with 'V ery'
and said no more,'for I did not fancy his joke, if such it was,
nor his brusquerie, nor his decided lack of good manners, nor
his rude speech ; in fact, I did not fancy the man at 11, nor
anything about .him. Not that he was hated or dEpised,
but because there was a something about him that m, ,de my
very flesh creep again, and caused me to instinctively shrink
from his contact.
" It is well known that one of the cardinal points of the
Rosicrucian belief is that bodily life can be prolonged I rough
whole ages in two different ways ; first, by means of the
Elixir of Life; secondly, by means of mere will alone. In the
first case beauty and youth accompany age; but in the second,
age is apparent all along the centuries. This latter secret
and the processes were revealed by a degenerate Rosicracian
in 1605'; and all students of medicine are aware that great
capital was made of it in later times by a French physician
named Asgill. This writer undertook to publicly demon-
strate and teach the art of life-prolonging, laying it down
positively, that man is literally immortal, or rather that any
given man alive could, if he choose, utterly .laugh at and
defy death ; that he need not, if so disposed, ever die, if he
used sufficient prudence, and forcibly and constantly exerted
his will in that direction. Asgill used to complain of the
cowardly practice of dying, considering it a mere trick, and

.94

95

R

"i
r
qr
t  (
.1 i
"      ;
. t
{
,y
,
.,
,
.'
+'}
,
f
f} i
+  4
i
r
'
! i
7
i
L
1
f
11
:  t
'    f
;S i

rI


a

v
RAALETRE.

unnecessary habit. The records tell us that several men
have used both these means to perpetuate existence, and I
have not the slightest doubt that it has been attempted and
proved measurably successful; and now, on this stormy night,
as I gazed on the withered wreck before me, it struck me that
he was one of those wretches who had attained indefinite
"length of years by the second method, and, as a necessary
consequence, had lost all fire, all feeling, all love, and all
conscience. I shuddered a3 the possibility flashed upon me.
He saw the motion, and a smile of ineffable scorn curled his
lip as he did so. I abandoned my notion.
"People who observe things as they plod their way through
the world, and who have at all made the human soul a study,
have often been made'aware that there is a certain nameless
something that comes over a man, that with resistless elo-
quence persuades his inner soul that some danger approaches,
some peril besets, some disaster impends over him. There
are times, when calm reigns all around him, and peace blos-
some in his heart, that he suddenly is apprised that Calamity
is flapping her way toward him- through the terrible nebu-
lous gloom of the Future. Many a man and woman has felt
this ; and some such feeling, some such horror-form, now
seemed hovering, cowering, crawling near me, and preparing
to seize upon and fang my very soul, in the presence of the
queer little man at my side. It was a mixed feeling of guilt
and dread, and yet no guilt was mine. I had not cheated,
robbed, lied, to my best friend. I had not fared sumptuously
every day on the proceeds of villainy; my wife and daughters
did not dress in purple and fine linen, bought with the money

98

"

THB LITLE MAN'NOT A GHOST.

97

wronged from a poor man, or any man at all. I had aota
fine piano, and parlors full of guests enjoying funds thus ggt-
ten ; nor had I driven fast and fine horses of my own, fed
and fattened on the money of a man whose child was at that
very moment struggling, gasping, choking in the clutchesqf
grim death for want of bread and medicine. True, there
were those who did all this--and the corpse of a pretty little
girl attests it-but I did not; why then should I be afraid?
'here is no answer to that, and yet I was in dread.
"After saying 'Very!' I spoke no more, but striving to
repress the horror creeping over me, I tried to 109k as indig-
nant as possible, which he was not slow to observe;forle
approached, slapped me familiarly on the. back, poured ot
and drank a cup of tea and ate a rusk, which settled the
question as to his being no ghost; then he, dropped carelessly
into my easy-chair, rubbed his little per   nose with his
thin, little, bluish-pale fingers, and throwing himself forward,
so as to look right up into my face, he laughed heartily, and
then bawled out, rather than sung, at the top of his voice:
"'The storm howls drearily,
Let you and I live cheerily ;
And we'll study things that never were known.
ve come from the West,
To see the man that I like best.
Don't think I'm all depravity.
i'm in search of the centre of ravity....
And you'll find out the Philosophers' Stone.'
5

1
I,
r
1
It


MIAKUS.

98

RAVALETTE.

And then he again burst out into one of the wildest,
onost outrd,. and ridiculous laughs that ever fell on mortal
" The wretched doggerel that I had just heard was beneath
my notice ; and little did I know of the singer, and still less
did I imagine that those lines were to me the most important
IThad ever heard.
Gradually, and by imperceptible degrees, my prejudices
began to wane ; I conversed with him upon a variety of sub.
jects, and the conference was maintained during four long.
hours, perhaps more ; for if my memory serves me, it was
-nearly eleven o'clock when he arose from his seat, shook me
cordially by the hand, said he was going, promised to call
again 'when he wanted to serve me,' and then, opening. the
oors, passed out into the midst of one of the most fierce and
4dictivd tempests that ever desolated the shores of Boston
Ba. A singular thing was this : in the depth of winter, tiis
am who refused steadily'to speak concerning himself was
idd' in the very thinnest summer raiment, not having enough
4ven for a northern June, much less for such fearful weather
as prevailed on the night of that 4th of February-a night*
when the glass in Boston told of cold twenty degrees below
zero, and in New Ham shire nineteen lower still--a night
so bitter that many and many a man went to eternity, borne
thither on the frosty pinions of the Ice-king.
"'After all it is a man, and mesmerism furnishes a key to
all this seeing mystery,' thought I ; and with this consoling
supposition I went to bed, and there reproduced all that he

ft

had said or done.      Now, although little was said in regard
to himself, yet, from    that little, I gathered that he was an
Armenian by birth, that his name was MIAKUs, which is the
ancient Chaldaic for Priest of Fire. He told me this as he
bent down to kiss a sweet little prattling Cora, and said that
he was very fond of children, and felt particularly so toward
the little fairy, who, seated in her chair, was busily engaged
in laying down the law to a culprit kitten, who, it appeared,
had been guilty of leze majeste to her Christmas doll. After
the child had been sent to bed, Miakus produced from his
bosom   a little square, flat case, apparently of rose or olive
wood, and     about seven    inches across by     two and a half
deep.* It was locked, and the key, a silver one, hung by a
golden clasp to an ordinary steel watch-chain round his neck.
The little man laid this case upon the bureau, where it lay
undisturbed, although it became clear to me that his business
there was in some way associated with that box and myself.
It was equally clear that his air was more than half assumed
and that, in spite of his nonchalance and brusque surface, great
B Both the incidents of the magic mirror are actual, literal facts, as is alsotits
curious construction and effects as herein related. I have witnessed many astou.
fishing experiments with mirrors constructed as was that treated of in the text. I
have seen several exactly similar-one in Zagazik, Lower Egypt, in the hands of a
Hindoo magician, two in Cairo, one in Thebes, two in Constantinople, and one in
London. In the East, owing to the scarcity of the peculiar material wherewith
the space between the glasses is filled, they cost enormous prices, and then can
only be had by a Christian through favor. In this country, or England, they
might cheaplybe n ade. I have one in my possession that I would not part with
for three thousand dollars, :'o wonderful, so astonishing are the effects witnessed
In and through it.-EDITOR.

99

I
A
ii
ffi
!{f
d
A
!
w!
I
a
s;
t+, S
a t
!t
are,
b
if
i
t
I
F
4 y r 7!
{r {


100

RAVALETTE./

trouble reigned beneath ; for, occasionally, as he spoke, therm
was a melancholy cadence and plaintive modulation in his
tones, that, to practised ears, spoke, if not of a breaking
heart, at least of one most deeply injured and bereaved. This
circumstance affected me much, for, through life, I have been
one who grieved with those in grief, and joyed with those in
joy. Then, after a little, he told me that one of his objects
Was to initiate me into certain mysteries of white magic, to
teach me how to construct the magic mirror in which the
majority of persons could glance through space, see and talk
with the dead, and in all things, save a few, have an unerring
guide through life. Said he-' I have such a curious look-
ing-glass in yonder box, and perhaps-and perhaps not--you
may test its qualities before I leave you. The fact is, I feel
down-hearted, have been so all day, and all the more because
I hurt your amour propre by calling you a fool, which, of
,course, I do not apologize for. It struck me that I would take
advantage of the weather to chat with you, without infriig-
ing upon your business, and that, possibly, you might learn
something and I find relief in teaching you, and thus with-
draw us both for a time from the great Failure '-by which he
meant the world. 'I am weary of myself, the world, philoQ-
sophers and philosophy. There's nothing good but magic !1
You have been a fool while striving to be wise ; and are am-
bitious to know what you have hitherto merely imagined.'
"He rose, took the case, laid it on. the table between us,
and, while playing with the key, continued-' If you really
desire to pierce through the gloom that palls the human

1o%

senses, .you must abandon all human loves and passions, ,most
especially all' that relates to woman ; for woman's love de.
stroys-in the very moment of man's victory over her, she
triumphs-he yields his life, and offers up existence itself oi
her altars, and then she laughs ! Is it not so ? Does no$
every mau's experience corroborate this ?  Strong as iron
alone, no sooner does he reach the goal of love than he se
lost in a sea of weakness, lethargy, deadness ! Bah ! avoid
woman. You want high knowledge, and must pay high
prices. God gives nothing--he sells all,; and he who would
have must purchase, and the price is suffering. So with love.
Its life is bought with the coin of death. Woman is like the
ivy vine mantling round some hoary tower, and the more you
are ruined the closer she clings, and the closer she clings the
more you are ruined ! Listen. No one acts Without .a mo-
tive. I have' one with regard to yourself, and it is a.selfish
one. It so happens that the possessor of the magic mirror
can in it behold all other horoscopes but his own, beyonda
certain point ; and, if he would know it, he must consul4
other seers.  Now,- there are certain beings in existence
whose future cannot be read except by certain persons
specially constituted. You are one of the latter, I am ones
qf the former ; and such as we only meet at the beginning
and the end of - chs -and eras. The present is one of these.
I will present you with the mirror when you have done me
i favor; I will teach you the art of their construction
and I willgive you a verbatim copy of the answers you shall
analge to the questions I shall ask you while gazing in its

f      f
t
t
i       f
j
{i        I
3                 '
s
{
t         ,
}
t
i
i         i
t
t
1
w       Y
1       )ti
{
k
1  F
i        1
t
Y         t
t
i
f
i                    "
t        {
r
r
1
i

THE MAGIC MIRROR.

f s,
r
; .
r
't
t,#


()2

RAVALETTE.

awful depths. To this I pledge a word that never yet was
broken, and an oath that never will be. For this purpose I
have followed you for years, patiently waiting for the hour
that dawns at last. To successfully do the thing I ask, two
things are essential. 1st, That, in a perfectly pure state of
body, health, mind, intent, and morals, you gaze into the
glass. 2d, That, while doing so, you make no resistance
against certain sleepful influences that may assail you, which
influences will not be mesmeric, nor assisted by myself in any
way, but is the sacred slumber of Sialam Boaghiee, which can
only be enjoyed once in a hundred years, and then only by
persons who are singularly constituted as you are-whose
veins are filled with the mingled blood of all the nations that
sprung from the loins of the Edenic protoplast, the Biblical'
Adam, and who, temperamentally, and in all other respects,
save sex, are perfectly neutral. Certain great advantages will
accrue to you from this concession that are unattainable
without From this slumber you will awaken doubly ; first,
to the old life without ; and, second, to another and a fuller
though stranger life within, and to the power of comprehending
innumerable mysteries that lie enshrouded in dim regions far
beyond the ken of ordinary man. Dreamer ! you shall cow-
prehend your dreams. Rosicrucian ! you shall comprehend'
the Light, the Tower, and the Flame, and where Artefius
and Zimati failed you shall find success ! It is difficult, if
not impossible, to either over-rate the advantages to be derived
ly. the possession of the power I allude to, or to define and
characterize it in words, mainly for the reason that, although

ti

'TI E DOOR 01'     DOME. DRO
the idea stands out well marked and distinct before the mind
fet the language which you speak has no terms or symnbo1i
adequate to its naming or expression ; for, at best, words are
coarse raiment for thought, and no more show the beauty
of what they cover, than the preposterous costumes of Chris=!
tendon display the superlative glories of the human form.
The soul that sleeps this slumber passes through a gate which
even the privileged dead cannot enter, save once in a century
and then only by reason of neutrality, for positive people
are to be counted by the billion on either side the grave,
negative people outnumber them ten million to one, while
neutrals are, like cold heat, very rare indeed. I trust we
shall yet assist each other.'-
" Now, I had, two hours before, on seeing him eat and drii,
hastily abandoned my ghostly hypothesis regarding the littid
queer old man. But now, as he talked so strangely, and so
grandly indicated the Door of the Dome of all possible human
knowledge and attainment, the mystery that wrapped him
changed its character, but enveloped him in a ten-fold gloom
and shadow, that continually grew more thick and dense, so
much so, indeed, that, but for his eating, and the fact that
several persons in the house beside myself had seen and ex-
changed speech with and touched him, I certainly should
have doubted the evidence of my senses, and set the whole
thing down, from the scene in the office till his departure, to
the account of a disturbed imagination. There was a some-
thing unearthly about his voice and manner ; and once, when
he turned his chair, the upper part of his right thigh came in

z
y;
4
j F
c! ff
i
S
i 1-
r    i
r   1
t
tr
L
1
t
}
s
r              r
f        t
i
r s,
s


10                    sALETE.
direct contact with the red-hot stove, and I watched it there
untilhe chair was ruined by the fire, and the smoke of its
Ta'nish and seat. fairly filled the room, and yet he was not
burned, but coolly rose and opened the door for the smoke to
escape, and then, resumed his seat as if nothing whatever had
happened ; and, two or three times in the course of the even-
ig I not only felt a chilly atmosphere proceed from him, but
distinctly saw his skeleton beneath his thin, parchment-like
skin, as if but the thinnest integument had been loosely
thrown over it to hide its naked deformity by some mouldy
tenant of the grave, doomed to expiate its offences by again
w lking the earth with embodied human beings. Could it
be that I had struck the truth,, and that this mysterious
1iakus was in reality such a vampire as we read of in
Genan story 7"

CHAPTER III.
PHOSPHORUS AND THE ELIXIR OF LIFE.
"MARVELLING," said Beverly, continuing his wonderful
story---" Marvelling on the strange events of the day and
night, as said before, I retired to my chamber, but not to
rest, for ere the morning dawned upon the world again, there
came to me an experience that in some respects totally
changed the current and character of my life. These inci-
dents are already recorded in my narrative concerning 'Cyn-
thia and Thotmor,' long since given to the world.*
On the morning following this eventful night, I repaired
to the office of a reputed to be Philosophic toothdoctor.
whose brain is a far more curious museum than the one near,
his office. With him I conversed awhile, and by him was
introduced to a real thinker, whose name, I think, was
Blood. After smoking a segar-and each other-in his .labor
tdry, I repaired to Nichols', the chemist, made a few purr-.
chases, and forthwith went to my office.
"Now, it so happened that sometime previously I had
purchased a chemical apparatus, conducting my experiments
secretly, and mainly after 'twelve at night-for the piupose
of repeating La Briere's great experiment for the removal of
* See the book called "Dealings with the Dead," second sees.
5*


106

RAVALETTE.

the poisonous and igneous properties of Phosphorus without
decreasing its revivifying and medicinal qualities. I had ex-
perimented untiringly for five months, at a cost almost rain-
ous to me, but still with an invincible conviction that I
should succeed, and give my secret to the world, instead of
perishing like the'poor Frenchman, who burst an artery from
excitement at his success, having made about eleven ounces
that fulfilled his entire expectations. Part -of his process
only survived him, and many a man, like myself, had at-
tempted to fathom the secret and gain the enormous fortune
that must result from complete success, but hitherto in vain.
The experiment was a most important one. Churchill
had produced his hypophosphites, and they had lamentably
failed of the intention ; hence, in working at this mine, I
had avoided his and others' formula. Success, I felt, would
not only benefit my own private practice, but would be of
iriealculable service to the medical profession, and still more to
that large class of persons who by over mental exertion,
severe intellectual and sedentary occupations, and by pas-.
sional and other imprudent excesses, had deprived themselves
of the wine of life, by draining themselves of nervous force ;
and become spiritless, semi-insane, gloomy, and despondent.
Such a discovery I knew would place in. the hands of the
profession a true, positive, but perfectly harmless aphrodision
nervous stimulant, mvigorant and tonic. It was, therefore,
worth all the time, trouble, and expense I devoted to it, for it
would be one of the best things medical science had yet given
to the world.'

ill

A GREAT EXPERIMENT.               107
It had long been demonstrated : 1st. That Phospheid
abounded in the bones, nerves, and tissues of the human
body, but especially in the human brain. 2d That 1Thos-
phorus was invariably present in large quantities in the
brains of healthy men who had been killed, and analysis'there-
after made ; and invariably as the brain thus analyzed 'was
that of an intellectual, fine-strrng, high-toned, ambitious
ecutive, or spiritual person, just in proportion was the vo-
lume of phosphorus found in their remains ; while the low,
the ignorant, coarse and brutal had comparatively little' phos
phorus in them. 3d. It had been proved that in the adminis
tration of phosphorus to old people; to the class of patients
who-seek private advice ; to those exhausted by mental la-
bor or excess, it invariably acted as a revivifier, and seemed
iot only to restore health,-strength, and fire to the body,
but to rejuvenate and tone up the mind to its 'i-stine
strength, power, and activity ; while insanity, idiotcy,brain-
sofening, and causeless terror, disappeared in the ratio of
its exhibition, for one half of the diseases of civilizationresuIt-
from the waste of phosphorus from the system, and for thirt
years medical chemistry had sought to so prepare the' article
that it'would at once assimilate with the tissues and fluids.
It had not succeeded. True, La Briere 4ad, bu then his
seret *as dead. I resolved to restore it ; and after a hi
dred failures, produced what he had named Phymyle.
"I tried its effects upon myself; then several physicians
on themselves;- and finally, it' was tried pon patier st
their own request- and the result left not a iail: to her

'I

I
Iiq


EAVALETTE.
doubt on, that I was perfectly justified in crying ' Eureka!1'
This preface is essential to the understanding of what follows,.
" Now, it so happened that a few days before I saw Mrs.
Graham, that I had placed about four pounds of phosphorus,
together with about five times that weight of other materials,
in a strong glass vessel, in a sand-bath, ready for the produce.
tion of, perhaps, one quart of the precious medicine ; and,
the first thing I did on entering my office from the dentist's,
was to light the gas beneath it. For a few minutes I stood
watching the rich and beautiful scarlet and purple vapor as
it rose and curled through the neck of the retort, and the
long glass pipes leading to the, condensing apparatus.
"While thus intently engaged, I was suddenly startled by
the exclamations, ' Careless eol! Look out ! Run!I' Me-
chanially I obeyed, leaped into the outer office, and had
scarcely done so, than there occurred a loud explosion. The
retort had burst into a million fragments, shattering the win-
dows. and apparatus into -fin pieces, and scattering some
pods of ignited phosphorus upon the floor. Here was
trouble. Iut not to the speaker-for, quick as light, he tore,
the carpet off the office floor, and burled it, phosphorus and.
all into the snow-drifts in the yard below, which soon melted
under the intense blaze of tljat almost quenchless fire, until,
hagig consumed itself, nothg but a white smoke was left,
to tell the danger I and the house had been in.
rh  fire out, and my fright subsided, I turned to see
iZoit was that hadso opportunely saved me, and fogd the
i  14    q   igand sn4 ig before me.

I

THE ELIXIR OF IFE.

109.

"'What! -is it you, then.?' I asked, at the same time cor-
dially extending my hand toward him.
"'I rather think it is!I' said he, grasping it, 'and very
lucky for you it was that I chanced to happen along
"'So early in the morning,
Just after break of day,'
said and sung the Enigma, continuing : ' You are not an
oVerwise chemist, my dear doctor, else you would never'em
pedt, either that Phosphorus gas could reach the condenser,
with the stop-cock shut, or that a glass retort, already
cracked, would long resist the immense pressure of the accu-
mulating and continually heating vapor. I see you have
turned Hermetist and Alchemist-Rosicrucian like ! and that
y'6t1 =atei'determined to blow yourself up, or else
"'Find out the 'lixir Vitae,
Or stumble across the Philosophers' Stone,'
and the little old man clapped his hapds and danced about
the room in the most exuberant glee.
"'But, my friend,' said he, 'as constant trying means
eventual success, I have not the slightest doubt but that you
will yet become a very rich man, as well as a long-lived one ;
for, to tell you the truth, you have come nearer this, morn-
ing to compounding the Elixir of Life-that very Elixir for
which Philosophers have toiled during thousands of years, in
vain-than any man that ever lived. - For instance: had

ii


110               RAVALETTE.

you placed a less quantity of phosphorus in the retort; more
of the first and third, and less of the second, fourth, and
fifth ingredients, with a slower heat, and the addition of two
ounces of    , and     , and one of -  ,' mentioning the
articles, 'you would have, indeed, made the water of per-
petual youth and health-that wonderful chemic which pu-
rifies the-juices, removes obstructions, clarifies the fluids, and
renders man physically invulnerable to miasmas and disease-
to all things destructive to life, except, of course, material
injury.  What d'ye think of that?  Ha ! ha!l' and again he
burst out in a roaring squeak:
"'I'll discover the centre of gravity,
You'll find out the Philosophers' stone.'
"It has been the habit of the wiseacres of this world:.
deride the idea that it is pos  e to make gold ; to laugh in
face of the notorious fact that nature is constantly making it,
and that, too, of gasses in the earth, as all things else, save
souls, are made. It has been fashionable to laugh at the
idea of compounding a material capable of freeing the system
of all its gross and clogging impurities-the only friction to,
the wheels of life ; a mixture which would exhilarate, purify,
strengthen, and supply to the body the chemical and dyna-
mic forces of which it is constantly being robbed. But these
wise people will have done laughing by-and-by ; not by any
nitsns must it be thought that I, for a moment, entertained
the- silly notion of the alchemists and false -Rosicrucians.-
of finding a material which when brought into contact with

aI

THE SLEEP OF SIALAM.               111
metals would change them into gold. We of this century are
too knowing for that ; nor that I hoped to discover, from
the application of the old man's suggestions, that wondeifuil
fluid alluded to awhile since ; but I did believe it possible
that I could compound a draught that when quaffed would
repair the waste of nature, and believed until that moment,
that in Phymyle I had found it. - What, then, was my aston
ishment when the weired old man whispered in my ear that I
stood upon the brink of the grandest success conceivable,
that the grand Secret of secrets was all but in my grasp?
To describe my sensations at that moment is impossible, and
the more so because the old man told me the whole process
and constituents.
: What cared I even if it was necessary for me to go to
Jerusalem, and gather the precious seeds of a fruit that
grows upon its walls, wherewith to prepare the water ?  In
other years I did go, and the treasured seeds are mine. .
In that awful moment of success I blessed the old man and
internally vowed that in return I would read his horoscope,
and sleep the sleep of Sialam; for was not the desire of my
soul gratified ? Why then should I not return the favor ?
" Such, in that tumultuous moment, were my thoughts.
Soon I became calmer, and then, 'How came the old man to
know the materials that were being used ?' 'Perhaps he saw
the fumes, and thus knew them !' But how of the contents of
the condensing-chest through which the vapor was forced for
the purpose of nullifying its injurious qualities ? for no living
human being had seen me compound or place them there.

lk
71-
'.e
fi
ff
lid
it
it
1


1J2

RALETTE.

1Iow came he to know the purpose for which this compound
was being brewed ?  How had he become a      e ofa
, the hope of my soul, the fixed purpose of my.li
41rig long and wearisome; years ?
"All these queries served but to envelop their subject in
a deer robe of mystery ; and while they were passing b. ,
stood at my side gazing curiously at the now white vapoa
as it writhed and curled upward, and out upon the air, through
the broken panes.
It was very, very singular !
" In a little while the wreck was cleared ; the old-mam,
lefit me, promising to call again that day, and I went out to
order new apparatus, some glazing, another carpet, and to
v et a number of patients ; after which I returned. It was
about three o'clock, and I had .not been long in. befeb
Miakus, true to hisword, came also,"
7                l~y SK

I

i

CHAPTER IV.
THE MAGIC MIRROR.
"'LET me give you a piece of advice,' said Miakus, 'for
you need it. First, never intrust any secret to a friend,
which, if revealed, would bring trouble or disgrace. Never.
interfere in a brawl or quarrel, no matter who is right orf,
who wrong ; but always let the world do its own fighting,-
while you stand by to avail yourself of any advantage that
chance may disclose ; and lastly, keep what you know until
there shall be a market for it. Now we will test our magic
glass,' and forthwith we went into the rear office, which by
that time had been refitted, so far as glass and carpet were
concerned.
" In his hands he bore the rose-wood box, which he, laid.
upon the table, while, by the aid of four gimlets, he fixed a
silken screen, or curtain, entirely across the room, having
previously closed the shutters to exclude every ray of day-
light from the apartment.
that,' said he 'is a magic screen. You have seen a
magic-lantern exhibition.  Well, this is to be a similar onen
without the lantern. I now open this box, as you see, and
take from it this mirror, which is, as you observe, merely two
plates of French glass, with strips of wood around their
118

I


114

RAVALETTE.

edges to keep them half an inch apart, and so that a fluid
poured between them shall not escape. Nothing depends for
success upon either the box, the curtain, or the glasses, but all
depends upon the peculiar fluid between them, which is, as
you perceive, of a dark brown color, but at a distance,
quite inky to the eye.
"'I now hang this mirror by this hook, to the ring sewed
to the upper central edge of the screen. Then closing and
locking both the doors, thus, I place these two chairs for you
and I to sit upon. Then I take this reflector and place it
near the gas jet in such a manner as to throw a strong light
-a perfectly circular and brilliant disk upon the very centre
of the glass tablet,'thus,-and he suited his actions to his
words ; after which we took our seats before the curtain,
and I observed that the liquid between the glasses was of
such a nature as to reflect a sort of semi-opalescent hue.
"'Before proceeding to demonstrate the truth of Hamlet's
remark to Horatio,' said the experimenter at my side, 'I
find it essential to give you a why and wherefore. Know,
then, that not only is there a mysterious and powerful syrn-
pathy between man's body and all things outside of it, but it
is still more true that a greater one exists between these out-
side things and his soul within, as is proved by the astonish-.
ing power over it exerted by various substances, most of
which, especially the last eight; ought to be banished from
the earth and be accursed for ever-for instance, Belladonna,
Cantharadin, Beng, Opium, Hasheesh, Dewammeskh, Hyndees
Tartooroh, Hab-zafereen, Mah-rubah, Gunjah, and many other

I

MIND -CHAIN  BY MATTER.

115

vegetable preparations that might be named, and every one
of which will not merely affect the body, but the tremendous
mystery that lies concealed within it. They expand the soul;
but they also damn it ! Let us ascend from gross matter to
the volatile-Light, for instance. By concave mirrors we can
throw an image in open space that shall be seen by thousands.
We chain a shadow, and whoever has a photograph possesses
one such prisoner. We make a few passes over a glass of
water, and charge it thus with any specific quality we choose,
nauseous or pleasant, and it produces corresponding effects
Upon the patient who takes it. Here you have mind and
matter united by an act of mere volition. But we go still
further : for we select materials, and with them render the
Water still more highly sensitive. We then charge it with
our souls, to such an extent that it shall comatize a man's
body, and illuminate his soul to the sublimest degree of clair-
voyance. Still higher : it is possible to compound a liquid
that shall seize on, and for a time. retain, by its subtle power,
any mental image thrown upon it. Still higher : there are
direct and positive affinities and co-relations between every
thing and person on this earth and off it. By certain know-
ledge, certain persons are able to select those things that pos-
sess certain affinities to and for the inhabitants of the upper
worlds, and the dwellers in the Spaces. Now that glass disk
before you contains such a liquid, thus compounded-"
i here he gave me the most minute explanations of the pro-
cess of constructing such curious mirrors, and-how to charge
them with a liquid which I at once saw must of necessity be


I

r AVALETT.

116

electrical, magnetic, highly odyllic and ethereal.. Then he told
me how to charge it differently for different uses-as a toy,
a means of medical diagnosis, for the purpose of interpreting
dreams, seeing earthly things, discovering lost treasurer,
reading the past or the future, and for many otherpurpose;
as no one mirror would serve more than one end, or work in
more than a single direction, unless specially constructed for
such general use, which would render them too costly.
"'Properly prepared,' he continued, 'your mirror becomes
so amazingly sensitive as to not only receive and retain images
of things too subtle for solar light, but to bring out and ren
der them visible. Nor is this all. There is light within. light,
atmosphere within atmosphere, and intelligent beings who
dwell within them, and who can commune with man only
through such mirrors, upon which they can photograph thq
information they wish to convey, either by scenes depicted
therein, or by words projected thereon. Now, observe,
Thoughts are things--they are real, substantial actualities, if
not actual matter'. They are things that .have shadows,
shape, form, outline, bulk. Some are fiat, others are sharg
cutting, pointed, and go on boring their way through the
world from age to age. Others are solid, round, bulky, and.
stagger when they strike you or impinge. upon the world.
Thoughts live, die, and grow. Now, attend. Gaze steadily
and firmly; desire to see something, no matter what.'
" I smiled incredulously, and observed that one could see
one's face in any bit of glass.
"''True,' replied he, 'but you have never seen your soul ,

- Ii

10

A CONFESSION.

117

id this bauble will show you that. It will reveal events
already past, that are now occurring, or that will transpire
in the future, on the earth or off it.'
" " Much doubting what he said,. I told him that, just then,
the sceptical mood was on me, and my belief must be forced.
He well knew the singular constitution of my mind, and that,
in spite of much contrary seeming, I was one of the most ob-
durate sceptics concerning the supernatural that ever lived.
To most of those who have known me, or read what I have
written in past years, it may appear strange that I, who have
been the accepted champion of all things spectral, should now
make such a seeming confession. But human nature is a very
strange- compound !  My heart, my loves, desires, and emo-
tional nature were all on the side of the ghostly, and eagerly
grasped and nursed the occult and weird ; and when these
reigned in my soul I bravely defended the spiritual theory
against all comers. I rose to sublime heights of inspiration
and speculation, and being thereby rendered morbidly sensitive
Saffectional influences, readily yielded to the specious social
kophistry of the hour, and, for a while, pursued a course from
which, had not reason been utterly blinded, I would have
shrunk with ineffable horror ; but, being surrounded by scores
of thousands similarly deluded, it was impossible for a wbil'
to break through the accursed meshes of this devil's net into
ecslear, cool light of truth beyond.
'This was one side of the lifemweb I was weaving. But
there came moments wherein enthusiasm was exchanged fdr
seinething like sober-mindedness ; and then intellect rejected

,

#3
i
4
}
f
4
rj
i#
.t
I J
i
l
,4


118              RAVALETrE.

most of what heart had drank in, and challenged the conclu-
sions of my own and others' in regard to the Phantom-Philo-
sophy. People cried, 'Inconsistent !' 'Variable !' mistaking
honesty for whim-and just as if anything or person wasever
consistent !
" In the present seance, logic held the reigns of mind, and
I laughed, which Miakus observing, said : 'Laugh on,-laugh
on ; but you must be careful or the laugh will be against you.
Truth is a dainty and a jealous dame, and never relishes
practical jokes at her expense. But, look ! the mirror begins
to operate.' And, instantly bending down, he veiled his face
in both his hands, and remained thus for perhaps a minute,
when he spoke, saying, 'What see you in the glass ?'
"'Nothing,' I replied, 'but the images of -ourselves.'
"'Have patience ! Look again ! Try !'
"A short silence then followed, when-
" 'Do you see anything yet ?'
"'Yes ; but nothing extraordinary. Only a clear spot-.
an atmospheric-looking aperture in the centre of the glass.
Yes ! now   there comes a change-faint, misty, dusky
shadows flit across ; but nothing positive or -distinct.',
"'Is that all ?'
"'It is.'
"'Look again.'
"'Clearly and distinctly I see the forequarters of a large
.greyish-white dog. It grows ! Now it is complete ! -The
.image stands out, bold and clear, from the.mirror!'
"So perfect was this appearance, that I could not realize

that it was a phantasm. The thing was impossible. it
looked like the reflection of a dog in a looking-glass, and I
actually turned my head, not to look for the dog, but for the
picture of one upon the wall, that might have caused the
image in the mirror. There was no such picture. The old
man enjoyed my surprise, and muttered-.
"'Nothing supernatural, ha ?  Remember that idiots,
bigots, and fools only dispute the existence of that whieh
others do, but they do not understand. True, many pin their
faith in a hereafter upon the curious phenomena attributed to
disembodied souls, but they err in so doing. The demonstra-
-tion can never be afforded through any process of either
phenomena or intellection. Of that, be assured. Immor-
tality can never be thought ; it must be felt... Your philo-
sopher cannot possibly grasp the idea, because it is not an
idea at all. It is a reality, and comes to man never through
the intellect, but ever and always through other channels of
the spirit-comes over roads that begin on earth and ter-
minate directly at the foot of God's throne. Thus, when
storms fall on the philosophic soul it shrinks and plays the
coward. Not so the truly intuitional man. He feels, and,
feeling, sees God through the gloom ; and that, to him, is gn
insurance against loss or annihilation.. He rides triumphant
over circumstances that bar themselves effectually againstall
philosophers. Even when the shadow rests heaviest on the
sky of life, such a soul beholds God enthroned in- auroral
splendor everywhere;. he .catches the sound of his voice from
every echoing hill and dell, and it speaks to him of life ever-

THE PROOF OF IMMORTALITY.


lasting, and its tones carry a thrilling demonstration of an bere-
after that all the spiritualism of the earth could never impart.'
" Now while I looked upon the mirror I silently marvelled
whether it were possible, through that glass, to solve the
grand secret of the ages, and the old man's speech could not
possibly have been more apropos than it was. But in a mo-
ment afterward I felt indignant at having beheld such a
figure, when he had promised I should see my soul, and told
him so. ' Let not that offend you,' he replied, 'that figure
is not spectral, it is correspondential. What is the type of
enduring fidelity, perfect trust and confidence, unbounded
love 'and faith, if its symbol be not a dog? Such it the
quality of your soul, nor is it very bad.'_
"There now came a broad clean space on the glass, and
the whole of it became clear and pellucid as the finest crys-
tal ; and in its very centre appeared a tiny, but very brilliant
speck of white light, and its lustre increased till it became
painful to gaze upon it. Gradually this expanded, and there
came a space in its middle clearer than the brightest noon-
day, into which I gazed with rapture, for the intense light
faded away into a sort of hazy- vapor surrounding this
=pot.
'Into such, and through such do I wish you to look
for me. But not now. The time is not propitious.
That which you behold is the lense of a mystical telescope,
wherewith you may scan and sweep the fields where revolve
f myriad worlds like this, and of other millions whereof man
is yet profoundly ignorant. Through it you can and may

120

RAVALETTE.

witness not only the worlds of which I speak, but also their
tenants and all that they are doing.'
"'What ! Do you mean to tell me that through that
telescope, as you call it, a living man can behold all that is
going on in Mars and Jupiter?'
"'Aye!l' said he, 'and half a million planets, suns and
systems more. It will reveal the fate or fortune of any one,
alive or dead. But to the proof.' As he spoke, it seemed
that a sort of tube of light extended itself toward my eyes,
and through it I beheld, as in a diorama, each and all of the
terrible and painful scenes of what I believe to be my most
recent life on the earth. I beheld all my few joys and suc-
cesses, and all the countless agonies of body and soul, by
which they had been girdled. Men met the phantom of my-
self, with smiles upon their faces, and seemed to speak in
honied phrases, to make themselves believed, and then these
shadows stabbed at the' listener and he fell, but did not seem
to die, for a grisly phantom ever hovered over him, but from
pity forbore to strike.
" The scene changed. It appeared to be a rural village-.
the date, in fiery figures on the corner of the field, was 1852.
It was a barber's shop, .and a light, happy-hearted youth
was therein pursuing his avocation, and earning bread and
health. This youth was apparently gifted to look beyond
the veil, and into the dim regions of the dead; and it
seemed that this was known,' for presently people flocked
about him, and the scene closed.
"Again the magic picture presented this man as in public
6

01

THE MAGIC PICTURES.


THE WAY OF THE WOLD.           123

life ; cliques made use of him, flattered his vanity, and he
was led into errors of conduct and judgment, but none so
great as manifested by others around him ; but, on the in-
stant that this man discovered his error, and announced it,
ten thousand daggers were levelled at his heart, ten thousand
tongues defamed him-and for what?  Because he had been
true to his knowledge, his conscience and his God. He fell
beneath the strokes of those who had sworn themselves his
friends and the friends of all mankind. See him now with
his heart bowed down.
"It shifts ; and lotI the man, appears again. Consumed
by the fires of hatred, envy,'ingratitude and venom of his
former friends, he has risen again. ',e renais de mes cendres,'
was. the motto on the banner that he floated to the breeze.
He changed his mode of life. One of those who were the
very first to take him from his labor, and bring him before the
world, still clung to him, declared that even death should
never alienate him (for the pantomime was as readable as
speech), and the deceiver was believed.
"Again the phantorama changed. The barber-orator had
reached to competence-had gained much gold, a deal of
philosophy, and but very little wisdom with it all, for he still
blieved the speech of people ;.measured men and women
by the standard of his own heart, and believed that honest
say was honest mean. He had forgotten that, after all, this
is but a baby world, and still went on in the same old way,
trusting and suffering.
" He had one to provide for-a female relative-in whom

his 'neart was bound, but this was not reciprocal. The rela-
tion was that of religious duty on his side, and self-interest on
hers. Still the man nobly struggled for her-so it seemed-
and the picture faded, but another came. His 'friend' by
fraud obtained all the man had, and then, with malignant
purpose, deLfmed the female to his dupe, having first re-
duced the man to beggary.     All this, working on the
barber, nearly upset his reason, and the victim raged in his
agony, and the financier laughed at him,. and fed sump-
tuously, 4aily; and, having previously obtained by double
fraud, a signature to the effect that robbery was a legal
loan, gloated over the misery he had caused, and denounced
the victim himself had made. Once more the picture flew
on, years had gone by, the despised man-despised because
his skin was darker than his destroyer's-had risen into emi-
nence and fame.
" It changed again. Disgrace, poverty, the prison and the
halter had avenged him.
"' The way of the world!I' said Miakus, 'but recollect
that
"'Ever the Right comes uppermost,
And ever is justice done!,
What could you expect else from so small a portion of
a man ?  Trust no one. This was fate. Fate cannot be
evaded. Submit. It will be well in the sequel. WE MAY
BE HAPPY YET!I
" Again those words ! and uttered by Miakus, too!
" My mind framed a desire to behold something of the future

0

.1 2 .              R*vALFjrrr.

s


124               RAVAETr.

that should be as plain as the pictures of the past had bee
and if there was any means whereby the blows of fate might be
softened, any field in which to live and act free from the lone-
liness hitherto endured, and when next my eyes glanced
through the magic tube, there passed across the field of
vision a solitary human head and bust. So swiftly did it
glide past that only an electric sense of its beauty remained
with me, but there was a something that told me the head I
saw was that of Evlambda-that by woman alone could re-
demption come.   But then the curse said, 'A daughter
of Ish,' and she was a child of Japhet.
'Scarcely had this figure flitted by than the glass became
clouded, black, and finally resumed the appearance it had
when first taken from the box.
"'Nothing further can be seen to-day,' said Miakus, 1.
have already endowed you with priceless gifts. You cars go
forth to the world and heal the sick, restore the insane, mako
mirrors and the Elixir, and read the past and future, and
yet all this is as nothing to that which you may expect after
you shall have solemnly sworn to sleep the sleep of Sialam
for me.'
"Readily acknowledging all he said, gratitude prompted
me to assent, and the words were on my lips, when suddeily
the same bust and head passed before me very slowly, within
one foot of my face. It was unmistakably Eviambda, and
the countenance looked tearfully reproachful as it once more
disappeared , but even as it did so there came a soft, low,
musical voice, but sorrow-toned, say ing: 'When I am in

DISAPPOITMENT.             125

danger you will know it, wherever you may be ; when you are
in danger you will see me, though seas between our bodies roll
The identical words uttered by the girl at the door of the
chief's cottage, years agone, when we had so sadly parted!
Thus mysteriously warned, my consent was withheld.
Miakus looked pitiful and disappointed. He said nothing,
however, but silently repacked his paraphernalia, said he
wished me well, and then, passing with me into the street,
we struck hands and parted.
"It were useless attempting to describe my feelings, conse-
quent. upon these strange events. I could not help being
grateful for the favors-shown me by the Enigma, and yet was
I certain that I had, by ghostly aid, triumphed over a great
temptation, and that Miakus might, after all, mean me no
good. Involuntarily clinging to the memory of the maiden
of the valley, I blessed her from my soul, and offeredup a
prayer that, if it were possible, she might be the redeeming
angel for whom   my lonely soul so ardently longed ang
sighed.


I

BOOK III.

CHAPTER I.
RAVALETTE.
"'Ywis rolled away," continued Beverly.  "I had visited
California; had there made friends, as I had reason to sup-
pose, and knew that I had foresworn wealth and place in
favor of usefulness, poverty and knowledge; -and had there
helped to found an institution which, while it was capable
of diffusing infinite blessings to all around, languished for
want of seven good men and true. Yet it, like all other
blessings vouchsafed to man, may be so trodden down that
it die;- but nothing is more certain than that it will rise
again to the life everlasting.
*       *
"Months passed, and a continent and an ocean lay between
the Golden Gate and me. I was on my second journey toward -y
the Orient, and had taken London- and Paris on my way.
-My objects in the journey were triple : First, to visit the Su-
preme Grand Dome of the Rosicrucian Temple ; to make
my obeisance to its Grand Master ; to study its higher doc-
trines. and visit the Brethren. Second, to obtain the mate-

PARIS.

127

rials, in Jerusalem, for the composition of the Elixir of Life-;
not that I intended to make it, but because I wanted to use
them in my medical practice, which I purposed to resume on
my return to America. And, third, I needed rest, relaxar
tion, and change of scene ; for I felt that if I did not go,
what between the fraud I had suffered, the wretch's scan-.
dal, the woman, the dead child in the cemetery, and a vari-
ety of other troubles, I should die; and if I died-what then?
-And so I went.
*       *      *       *       *      *       *
" The scene I now present before you is Paris ; the date,
any day you choose to imagine between the 16th of August,
1863, and the 11th of June, 1854. I had just contracted
for an anatomical Venus and cabinet, designed for one of
the Rosicrucian Lodges in America, and had paid out some
fourteen hundred dollars thereon, when, being weary, L
strolled to the Batignolles, from there to La Plaissance
and - Luxembourg, when I met a person whom I had-known
in London, and he advised me by all means to again visit the
Emperor, and also to go to certain localities named, before I
left Paris. Promising that the advice should be followed, I
accordingly on day found myself in the Palace of the Louvre,
not for the first time, however, but for, perhaps, the tenth.
On each of these,  ions my time had been mainly spent
admiring and examining the contents of the Galleries Ass
riewne and Egyptienne. The bas-reliefs, or coarse engravings
rather, had commanded my attention on previous occasions,
along with the sphinxes of Rhampses and Menepthah, as

rf

t


1A 2AnmNCENEWAO uAm .  . 129

well a, the curious statues of.Amenophis, Sevekhatep, Osi.
ris aid Seti, from all of which I had learned much of that
strange civilization of the long-agone, usually assigned to the
past four thousand five hundred years, but which had in re-
ality utterly perished from off the:earth at least ten thousand
years earlier than the first year of that dateI for, but a lit-P
tle while before I saw those statues Mariette had exhumed
from the sands of Egypt, the celebrated sarcophagi and
mummy, to which the best Egyptologers, including the Che-
valier Bunsen, had, with one voice, assigned an age of not
les than twelve thousand years.
' On this visit I stood rapt in wonder and conjecture before
the euneiform inscriptions upon a series of tablets, and which
archaeojogy has never yet interpreted-Bunsen, Layard,
.otta,- and Champollion. having all alike failed in the at-
tempt.
" During the five or six last 'its to the museum, I had ob
served near me, apparently engaged in the same work  as my.
se1f--the attempt to cypher out the meaning of the inscrip-
tio  n-an old gentleman, evidently French, and as evidently
l4eloging to the small remnant of the old Noblesse yet sur-
yiving on the soil of le Granmd Nation, judging from his ear-
'age, air, and manner-refined, polished,.yet simple in the
extreme ; aid from the' benignance .that beamed from his
coeatenage, it was clear that there was happiness and con-
tent in his breast, and. that -he was a benefactor to, as well as
a Aoyted student of, all 'that was interesting concerning

128               $evAT.MM.

"On previous occasions when we met there ha4 passed
between us merely the compliments of the day, and those
general courtesies due between well-4red people. This time,
however, as if by mutual concession .and attra ctien, our
greeting was much warmer and more prol-nged; for, after
saluting, we drew chairs .before the tablets and began con-
versing about the arrow-headed characters ; and the old
gentleman, whose name was .avalette, said : 'Sir, how is
it that I see you daily pere, taking copies, and. trying tode-
cypher .letters that the bst scholars in Eirope have aban-
doned in sheer and hopeless despair?  Surely a youth lAike
you, cannot hope:'for success where they have failed ?'  *
"'True,' was the reply, 'they may despair, but is that a
reason why others should?  I believe I shall yet correctly
read these enigmas rof the ages.'
" The old man smiled at my antiquarian enthusiasm, and
merely remarked, that 1eses and the chronologists had bet-
ter be 'looking out for their laurels, else the, parvenus of the
present ;day would not leave many to be gathered.
"'It is my invincible conviction,' said I, 'that these sculp-
tures were wrought many ages prior to the mak'ig of the
pottery found beneath the valley of the Nile ; and that the
inscriptions on yonder porphyritic tablets were engraved
there a hundred centuries before-the date of Adam--ai-
diYidual, by the way, whom I certainly regard as having had
an origin and existence in the imaginations 6f ancient poets,
a re   m     handed dowi the night of Time san heir-
loom to the ages-at least all :sue as had a taste for things
6*

.
P:


REVALEfE.
they could not comprehend--and had an existence there
"'Then you do not entertain the belief that all men sprang
from only one source?'
"'Yes-no. Yes; because God created all. No; because
there are at least ten separate an, distinct families of human
kind !'
"'But may not all these differences spring from climate
and the diverse localizations and circumstances attending
upon a wide separation of the constituents of an original
family?'
"'No ; because that will not account for different lan-
guages, physical differences, and anatomical diversities. It
is utterly impossible for any sane man to believe that
the Jaloff and other Negroes, the Maquaas and other In.
dians, the Mongols and other Tartars, the Kanakas and
other Islanders, the European and- other Caucasians, alt
sprang from one pair. Indeed the thing is so plain, from a
merely physical point of view, without entering at all into the
mental and psychical merits of the case, that he who runs may
read. Observe, I have said nothing about superiority or in.
feriority, merely content to let Physiology speak for herself.'
'Well,' said Ravalette, 'ou inform me that you desire
to learn, being already learned to some extent. The views
you entertain upon the Past are, in some sense, consonant
with my own ; and if you are willing to be taught, I an
willing to instruct; and in any case, no harm can come of
the abrasion of ideas, but perchance much of good.'

.1

I

" AND SEVEW. OTHER WORLDS.))

131

" I was delighted to hear Ravalette talk in this manner ;
for I felt that he was in some sort, notwithstanding ow rela-
tive disparity of years, a congenial spirit, and I longed for him
to unfold to me the rich fabric of his thought and experience.
I had concluded, from a word dropped here and there, that
he was at heart a believer in the Faith of Christendom, but
in order to silence the lingering doubt I still entertained on
that point, I put to him the following questions, and atten-
tively noted the substance of his somewhat curious responses
thereto.
"1st. Question. 'You, Monsieur Ravalette, have doubtless
travelled much, and seen a great deal of this world of ours ?'
"Here he interrupted me by saying, 'And several others
beside ' I asked for an explanation, but he merely waved
his hand'and. motioned me to go on. - I did so. 'Let me
ask you if the result of your observations abroad, amongst
men of different nations and faith-complexions, has not
been a strengthening of your belief in the Mosaic teach-
ings, generally, and in what is popularly known as Chris-
tianity?'
"Answer. 'No i In the many countries I have visited
I found human nature essentially the same as we find it here
in France. Men are ever the same at heart. Inwardly
they are all alike, sincere, beautiful, good, and religious ; out-
wardly, the same selfish, heedless, careless, and materialistic
beings, as untamable, set, willful, and unreasonable as the
heartiest cynic could wish.
 "'Wherever I went I found the True Religion theoreti


RA4~i.PRE-ADA MIT I MAN..133

call believed, but practically ignored and set aside on the
sore of inexpediency.
In all my travels I found but one religion, yet that
religion passed current under a vast variety of names. All
men alike believed in-good and evil, a Heaven of some port,
and some sort of Hell likewise.  I found that while at
bottom Faith was everywhere the same, yet the names by
which that faith was known, differed widely in different
places and latitudes. For instance, I found that the Catho-
lic or Papal, the Protestant or reformed, the Hindoo and
Brahminical, the Boodhistic, Lamaic, Greek, Polytheistic,
4theistic, Deistic, Magian, Guebre, Islamic, Fetisch, and
all other systems and modes of belief, were, instead of being
antipodal, in fact the same at bottom. This may surprise
you. Doubtless it would, were I to leave the subject just as
it is. But I will explain. They are all one at bottom, inas-
much as that each and all of their respective and apparently
dissimilar devotees do homage at the same 'shrine, of the
sae( Great Mystery. The modes and names differ with
latitude, but the meaning and the principle are everywhere
the same.
"'Popular estimate or opinion can never be a true crite-
rion either of persons, thoughts, events, principles, or things..
We grow daily beyond our yesterdays, and are ever reaching
forth for the morrow. The world has had a long night, as it
has had brght days; and now another morn is breaking,
and we stand in the door of the dawn.
"'1 agree with you that conld the dates on the tablets

here before us, !e revealed, they would prove that human
history really extends much further back into the night
of Time than    the period %assigned  by  Moses as its
morning.
human n monuments are in existence that indubitably
prove not only that the world is much older than people give
it credit for, bt also that civilizations, arts, sciences, philo-
sophy, and knowledge infinitely superior in some respects to
what exists, to-day, have blessed the earth in by-gone ages,
and been swept away, leaving only scattered vestiges of the
wrepk behind to inform posterity that such things have been,
but are not.
"' But whit .is still stronger food for thought, is the fact
that amidst these ruins of the dead Ages, we find .others that
are evidently relics of times and civilizations still more
remote-the debriss of a world-wreck remembered only by
the seraphim ! A demonstration of-this assertion is found in
the pyramids, the date and purpose even of the building of
which is wrapped in conjecture, and has been for age past.
The authentic history of Egypt can be traced for over 6,000
years, yet .even J4 that remote past the pyramids were..
much ,a mystery as they are to-day.
"'This is not all: The catacombs of Eleuthas conta
what in these days would be called ".Astronomic diagram;'
showing occultations of certain stars by certain other stars.
This is proved by one diagram showing the relative place in
the still heaven of eachstaor ofthe series; anotherdisplays
an approach toward obscuration, and so on through thirteen

E.A.VALETTtf.


separate stages, the last being a complete emergement of the
occulted star on the opposite side.
"'Now, it so happens that we have astronomers in our
day who pique themselves on their mental power and mathe-
matical correctness, and these inform as that a period of
57,879 years must elapse before the same phenomenon
will occur again, and that not less than 19,688 years must
have elapsed since it did occur ! Now I foresee an objection
in your mind. " How is it known that the ancient diagrams
refer to any two particular stellar bodies ?"  -
"' The answer is : From the relative positions of known
stars in the heavens whose places correspond to the positions
of stars in the diagrams, for the mapping out is quite as per-
fect as it could be done to-day, 'even with all the nice appli-
ances of micrometrical science now extant.*
"'Who built Baal-bec? is a question that has been
vainly asked for over 3,000 years, and then as now, men
repeated "Who ?" and echo said " Baal-bec 1" and says
" Baal-bec" still.
"'In a barren, sterile, sandy plain, which the augurs of
the artesian borers proved to have been once a rich and fer-
tile bottom-land or prairie, a very short distance westward
of the Theban ruins, there once existed a vast and magni-
ficent city, so splendid that the modern capitals of Europe
are mere hutted towns in comparison. This is proved by
F For the fullest and most extremely interesting proof-nay, demonstration of
human antiquity-that Adam was not the first man, but that men built cities
over r51,OOO years ago, read "Pre-Adamite Man," S. Tousey, N. Y.

134              xsvaI rr .

WHO BUILT KARNAK?          135

what has been exhumed from Earth's bosom. In that city
of palaces is the wreck of one, which, from its situation with
respect to other ruins, must have been merely a third or
fourth-rate edifice in the golden days when AzNAt flou-
rished ; yet the portico of this fourth-rate structure, situated
in a suburb of the city, the name of which suburb was
KARNAK, consisted of 144 Porphyritic columns, 26 feet
6 inches apart. Each one was 39 feet 5 inches in circum-
ference, and not less than 52 feet- high, and every one was
hewn out of a single stone !
"'Moreover, this fourth-rate palace was two miles, five
furlongs, and eight feet long, by actual measurement of the
ruins, and it required a journey of quite nine miles to go
around it.
"' This palace faced the Sacred River (Nile), from which
led a broad avenue lined with colossal statues on each side, as
close as they could stand, for a distance of over one English
league, and every one of these statues commemorated either
a king or a dynasty of that more than regal country.
"' Now, mark what I say : Proof, positive proof exists
that this palace, itself so imperial, so grand, so immeasurably
superior to aught of the kind attempted by man in this
"Progressive age (?)" was, after all, but a mere addition,
an inconsiderable wing, a sort of appendage, a kind of out-
house to one of the main edifices of that immortal city.
"'No man knows, or for four thousand years has known,
who built AZN--who laid the stones of KARNAK--who
cut marble monsters weighing two hundred and thirteen tons


S~A1IT3                                  OMETHNGOU1#Ious.           137

opt of a single block of stone, and that stone so hard that ne
udern steel will cut, or even scratch it! .
"'Railways I steam  power ! wheels ! pulleys ! screws !
wedges!, inclined planes.! levers, did you say ?
"'Sir, all these things existed long ago, else how could so-
lid obelisks of five hundred tons weight have been transported
a distance exceeding one thousand one hundred miles, from
the :nmuntains where they were hewn, to the places where
they were set up, and where we. find them to-day ?
"'Without all the appliances enumerated, how could these
monuments, some of which measure eighty-nine. feet in length,
have been erected after they were brought ; and take notice,
that some 'of these stone monsters were placed upon pedes-
tals, themselves ten or twelve feet high ?    .
"' It would strain the treasury of a modern state to pay the
expense attendant upon the erection of jalf-a-dozen ,such-as
was proved here in Paris in the case of the Obelisk .of Luxor,
the smallest of two that stood before the Temple of Thebes,
and which cost France over two million dollars to place where
it now stands. Without steam power and railways, how could
such immense masses of stone have been transported over and
through vast plains of shifting, 'burning sands, especially for
such immense distances as it is certain: they were brought?
A :ingle further remark on chronology, and I-have done.. It
has been established among the learned, that it -takes not less
than a period of ten thousand years for a language to be
perfected, and then .die ,out, to give place to ian improved
but entirely different one. Now, observe : Champollion de-

clares that he, through the assistance of modern Egyptian,
was able to master ancient Egyptian. This furnished a key
to certain hieroglyphs; these latter proved instrumental to-
ward simplifying a series of three more. He concludes that
he has sufficient evidence to establish the fact, that several
successive languages had been spoken in the two Egypts
(Upper and Lower).
"'But let us return to the original topic of conversation.
How is it that you expect a mere dream will aid you in
researches of a nature so profound as these ? How do y6u
suppose that a mere idle dream, even supposing you to have
one on the subject, could furnish you with the key ? There
might be fifty persons, or fifty thousand, for that matter,
each one of whom might feel an interest and have a dream
about it, and, like yourself, discover a fancied key, and yet
upon comparing notes no two dreams and no two keys would
be found alike amongst the whole fifty or fifty thousand !'
"Vulgarly, this was a ' poser;' still, an answer was ex-
pected, and so I said: 'Very true, there might ; but the true
key would be that which, whenever and wherever it was ap-
plied, would yield uniform and concordant results.'
" This reply appeared satisfactory to the old gentleman,
who, after a little further conversation, invited me to-attend
him to his residence and partake of a dinner with him at his
own table. 'Tis but a short and pleasant walk,' sid he ;
'my house is situated in the Rue Michel :le Compte, close to
the grand Rue du Temple, and we shall reach it in a very
little time!  Cheerfully accepting the invitation, I took the

I

f} a  {


A PRACTICAL PHILOSOPHER.       139

old gentleman's arm, and together we proceeded to his resi-
dence-which I found to be one of those stately old man-
sions built by the nobless of the times of Louis le Grande.
We entered, and in due time sat down to a repast at once
rich, liberal and. friendly, .and which gave me a very high no-
tion of the man who presided over it. Wine of the rarest
graced his board ; plate of the richest adorned it ; servants
most attentive served it ; coffee of the best followed, and to-
bacco of the finest finished it ; all of which strengthened
Ravalette in my esteem. After partaking of his elegant hos-,
pitality, he proposed a walk, and accordingly we withdrew
from the -house together, and arm in arm strolled into the
Rue du Temple, and kept that route until we reached the
limit of Paris in that direction, and entered one of its suburbs
known as Belleville.
"Before quitting the street where I dined, I had taken
the precaution to. mark well the locality of the house, and to
note its number on my ivory tablets, which I invariably car'
ried with me.
"And now we-ascended the hills overlooking Paris ; and
then we descended to the plain, and gratified the eye in view-
ing the rich market gardens, and the conservatories-of ch ice
and rare flowers, cultured carefully for the tri-weekly  ar-
kets on the esplanade de la Madeleine and the Chateau'
d'Eau. Again ascending the hill, we entered a cafe together,
and together partook of some frozen coffee and other ices,
after which he took me to see a guinguette--or tea garden-
lately established for the common people, where the custo.-

mer for ten sous might ape royalty, and sip his coffee from
silver cups, and take his wine from Sbvres porcelain. Here
we both talked to the proprietor concerning the novelty of
his enterprise, and made inquiries as to whether his customers
-who were all of the lower classes of society-did not bear
a great-deal of watching; and whether they did not now and
then run off with a few silver spoons, a chased goblet, or a
silver-gilt fruit dish ?
" ' No,' replied the man, 'I have seen enough of life and
mankind to warrant the step, apparently foolish, certainly
quite novel, which I have taken ; and I have found out that,
treat a man as if you regarded him a thief, and you do muck
toward making him one. Watch a man closely, and you
that instant suggest rascally thoughts to him, which may
bear fruit, and that fruit be crime. . But place full and free
confidence in those you' deal with, and let the fact be known,
and your conduct sanction your words, and take my word for
it, your confidence will very rarely be abused, if at all. My
place is the resort of thousands ; my invested capital is
large, yet I have never lost ten francs from the costly expe-
riment of making the poor man realize the comforts and
habits of the rich at the expense of ten sous.'
"'We -.could but admire the tact of Monsieur Popin-
arde, and frankly told him so as we left his place, for we felt
that there was a rich vein of truth at the bottom of his philo-
sophy of confidence, as he chose to call it. After leaving this
place, Ravalette and myself, still arm in arm, pursued our
walk in the environs of Belleville, and there, amidst the *et'

I

138              aAvAcIMM:


RAvALET. 

music. of nature, the melody of the sunshine, $he warblings of
birds, the quietude of the deep green canopy of leaves, the
hLnming of distant sounds, and the serenity of unruffled
spirits, we entered upon the discussion of a topic of singular
interest. That topic was, 'The human soul, and its resources.'
I shall only record the latter part of. this conversation. Said
the old gentleman-
"'Then you really believe, as did a very ancient society of
philosophers, known to some students of the past as the
Sacred Twenty-four, that there is a kind of natural magic in
existence, far more wonderful in its results than the lamp of
Aladdin, or the ring of the Genii?'
"' Most certainly I do.'
"'How have you learned of its existence, and how do you
propose to become a noviciate, and avail yourself thereof for
certain contemplated translations?  Perhaps you believe in
Elfins, Fairies, Genii and Magicians ?' said he, half laughingly.
I do not absolutely know,' I replied, 'that such a
magic exists, yet. firmly believe it does. The idea came to
me I know not how. By striving, perhaps, it may be found.
There are steps leading to it, doubtless, and, if we can discover
the first (which I think we have already in Mesmerism), we,
can follow till we reach the great goal. I do not believe that
Elfins, Fairies, Genii and Magicians are altogether mythical
personages. There must, it seems to me, be a foundation of
truth underlying the rich and varied accounts of such beings
that have filled, and still do fill the reading world with
yonder.'

CAN YOU ANSWER ME THAT?

141

"'Very good. But, tell me, have you an idea that such
things belong to this world or the world of spirits ?'
" At that instant it seemed as if I lost my self-hood, and
that a power foreign to my soul for a moment seized my
organs and answered for me-.
" 'They belong to neither, but to a different world!'
"Ravalette, at this answer, looked in astonishment ;and,
after gazing attentively at me for nearly a minute, muttered,
in an almost indistinguishable tone, the words, 'It shall be
Tou spoke of Mesmerism as the first step toward the true
magic, which you believe, and I know exists ; and you thought
it might be made successful use of in the obtainment of know-
ledge not to be arrived at by or through ordinary means,
methods or agencies. Tell me in what manner ?  Surely not
through ordinary clairvoyance, which ever reveals foregone
facts, and none other ; and, therefore, can be of little use to
the true student ? You believe, as I do myself, that all ancient
history, as it comes to us, is at best a mere fable, or bundle of
myths generally, albeit, certain portions are composed of ro-
mance, that is to say, are tales of fiction founded on a -basis of
fact, the superstructure being ten thousand times larger than
the foundations would justify, provided things went at their
proper value and importance. How, then, through the ines-
meric force, do you expect to dive beneath this superincumbent
ocean of fancy, and fetch up what few grains of truth yet
sparkle at the bottom ?  Can you answer me that ?'
"Ravalette smiled, gazed sorrowfully at me, and then
went on-


142

RAVALETTE.

"'Believe me, my excellent young friend, that Mesmerism
is a fine thing for inducing a "superior condition," enabling one
to write books which send their readers to suicides' graves
to discover the art of marrying other people's spouses ; for
procuring " Air-line " dispatches, and filling lunatic asylums
with poor reason-bereft creatures ; for stultifying a man's
conscience, and for emboldening one to pass for a philosopher
when one is but an ass!1' and Ravalette smiled gravely.
'Distrust all mesmeric railways,' said he, 'for many of the
passengers, like Andrew Jackson Davis, after riding on that
train for many years, have landed either in the .swamps and
mires of fantasy, or on the sides of moonshine mountains,
called " Mornia," and "Hornia," " Forlornia," and " Starnos,"
and "Sternas, " and "Cor," and " Hor," and " Bore," " dup.
turion," and " Spewrion," and forty thousand more!1'
" I bit my lip with vexation ; for I had devoutly believed
in and loved the subject and its advocates. I had always
loved Davis, and highly admired his philosophy and writings,
especially since a great free convention he once held in Cen-
tral New York.. I was aware that he had foes-people who
refused to believe .that God had appointed him his mouth-
piece ; who pointed to the graveyard in Quincey, Massachu-
setts, where lie the bodies of John and Hannah Grieves,
surmounted by a stone that tells that these poor suicides
came. there, lost, ruined, from reading his books. I was
well aware that there were painful rumors concerning a
couple of divorces,' and that some friends of mine had cut their
throats in order to all the quicker reach the 'Summer-land'

U

FALSE PROPHECIES.

143

which he so elegantly described; but still I loved-still love
him dearly. But now, when Ravalette suggested that he
was a humbug, it struck me that-Ravalette was right ; for I
suddenly recollected that once the great clairvoyant lost a
little dog named 'Dick,' which his seersluip could not trace.
I remembeitd that nineteen-twentieths of his prophecies from
the 'superior condition' never came to pass, while the twen-
tieth any school-boy could guess at. I recalled the fact that
his philosophy was most decidedly medical-highly emetic, and
very cathartic-and that his followers soon lost what little
common-sense they formerly had, else it were impossible for
them to accept the teachings of one who constantly contra-
dicted himself. Still, I respected and loved him dearly, albeit
Ravalette had utterly demolished his pretensions ; and I saw
clearly that, in believing the stuff he wrote and talked, I was
like one who reads 'Jack the Giant-killer,' or 'Gulliver's
Travels,' or 'Baron Munchaussen,' and believes the stories
real and true."

,


VIC

0

CHAPTER II.
SOMETHING CU RIOUS.

"RAVL   rE continued: 'Mesmerism's day has gone by.
Already it is found to be impossible to produce the' same
eftects with it as were prodiiced a few years ago, while the
bastard thing that now goes by its name, is of such a nature
and character that it speedily either disgusts all sensible peo-
ple, or very soon lands its friends into a deep quagmire of
such alkaline properties, that all 'the little common sense
they had at starting getsthorughlymixed therewith, and
forms a compound which they carry back, instead of what
they brought;- and when they get home again, they peddle
it out as " Divine Philosophy," when in fact it is an excel-
lent article of soap-regular savon extraordinaire, warranted
to extract brains, decency, money, and everything else worth
having, from all who meddle with it-it washes so very clean.
If your railway does not accomplish this, yet in ninety-nine
cases out of every hundred of journeys that terminate differ-
ently, it lands its passengers in the populous Town of Fantasy,
in the which all things look real, but are as hollow and as
substanceless as mere Forms can be, and that is next to

I

NIODER&amp; 4"OLAIRVOYANCE."

1450

nothing. In fact, most of the popular clairvoyance may be
said to resemble an edifice having
' Rich windows that exclude the light,
And passages that lead to nothing.'
There are, of course, a few, very few exceptions to the rule,
b'ut the rule obtains vastly,.
"'The sentimentalities of a puling, hysteric girl, half afflicted
f
with catochus, and the other half love-sick--as most modern
clairvoyants are---count small in the list of Fact-truths, and
the mad ravings of crack-brained somnambules of the other
gender go for hardly as much, for the first has at least a de-
gree of poetry about her, but the latter none at all. No, no
friend, do not place too great reliance on the ability of Mag-
netism to aid your researches, for you will run a narrow
chance of disappointment, and regret when too late that from
Nature's stable you selected the very worst animal of -the
lot ; one that is ring-boned, lame, spavined, and very baulky
withal. Take my advice, and choose a better.'
As the old gentleman finished what I at first regarded
as a diatribe against Animal Magnetism--a thing, by the
way, that I always doted on---I felt silent, and was so for
the space of a minute, during which time I rap y reviewed
my entire experience in, and knowledge of, Menterism, and
the result of the inspection surprised me not a little,:for on a
calm, disinterested view of the whole subject, I found it ut-
terly impossible to gainsay or invalidate his position and as-
sertions.  Yet it was equally impossible to help feeling


146

RAVAL1E.

chagrined, and in no small degree mortified to have my pet
hobby thus mercilessly cut up and dissected, laughed at, and
thrown out as dog-deed. 'Twas very hard fare, at least to
me, and at first seemed unfair also. For a long time I had:
almost worshipped it as a divine science; holding it to be the
true Spiritual Telegraph, by means of which we earthlings'
might flash thought, not. only to the bounds of the globe and
the Present, but also to the ends of Time and the Ages Past,
or nerved by Hope and Curiosity, dispatch a message to the
Great Future and drag back the answer. It was looked
upon as the great Messenger of Light, through whom we
might easily read the records of a Past so distant that the
coal-beds are but yesterday's creations in comparison. And
here, at one fell stroke, Ravalette had toppled the castle re-
owrselessly about my ears  I bit my lip with vexation, and
ur awhile' was silent as, together, we walked up and down a
sort of natural esplanade on the sides of the hill next Paris.
Mechanically as we walked back and forth, I trod in the
footprints made while going, on each return, and just as me-
chanically observed that Ravalette did the same. One
thing struck me as curious,' even while my mind was pro-
foundly engaged in the search for arguments wherewith to
confute and break down the old gentleman's positions; and
that fact was this : The shoes worn by Ravalette were of a
very singular pattern, totally unlike any I had ever seen be-
fore  Upwardly, they were decidedly triangular-almost
perfectly so. Previously this fact had escaped my notice ;
low, it struck me as being very singular. But what was

I

I-

CU1EIOU8 INSIGNIA.;

147

equally surprising was, that instead of the ordinary heel and
sole, his feet-gear had four circular rims of brass, covered
with rubber, and the track, he made on the yielding, but
plastic ground was indeed remarkable. The track and the
shoe almost upset my cogitations. I looked up and observed
a smile on Ravalette's face as he saw my surprise at behold-
ing the novelty of one cross, two crescents and two triangles,
and a solid bar (part of the dross), ornamenting the sole of
a shoe, if shoe it could be called.
"'That,' said he, divining my thought, 'is and yet is not
a mere fancy of mine. I have a peculiar reverence for those
figures, as you may plainly see.' And with this he drew my
attention to an exquisite brooch or pin in his bosom.
" This rare jewel, which I had previously seen but not
noticed particularly, consisted of a triangle formed of a
crescent or quarter circle and a compass, or, as the instru-
ment is improperly called, a pair of compasses. In the
centre of this was a tiny cross formed of minute stars, and
just where the two bars met was a rose just blooming, and
colored with enamel to the life. Gazing still closer at this
novel breastpin, with the aid of a fine eye-glass, I discovered
a legend engraved in minute and-strange characters upon the
rim of the crescent ; upon the left quarter of this crescent
was a pelican feeding her young with her heart's blood ;
midway was a tiny black rose, and on the right corner was
one of deep crimson.
. The workmanship was exquisite, indeed quite extraordi-
nary, for the entire jewel was not larger than a golden dollar


I

148

RAVAkETTE.

He also showed me a large and massive seal, pendent from
his watch, and on its face was engraved a ladder of twelve
steps, the first and fifth of which were broken. The foot of
this ladder rested upon a broken column, near which lay a
mason's trowel, and its top leaned against the beam and ring
of an anchor, reversed, the lower part being lost in what
represented a cloud. After I had suffciently admired the
seal, he semi-playfully drew forth his watch, to which it was
attached by a fine gold 'rope'-chain, and observed: 'I have
more of the same kind,' at the same time placing it in my
hand,
"The watch was an ordinary smooth-backed, hunting.
cased gold chronometer, worth perhaps fifty or sixty pounds
sterling, the extra value being acquired by an anchor fouled,
done in diamond points upon the internal face. The o po-
site side presented some excellent enamel-work representing
the cardinal points of the compass. Three stars gave light
from the West; a tomb, with its door partly open, stood in
the East ; broken columns adorned the South ; and a circle
composed of small triangles was in the North ; in the centre
of this circle was a rose on the bars of a dotted cross; the
whole executed in the same exquisite style as that marking
the seal and pin.
"To a question as to what it all meant, an evasive answer
was returned. Waiving all my solicitations to explain the
emblematic devices, the old gentleman resumed his remarks,
byobserving : 'Never mind now what these- things mean ;
.you will know one of these days. At .present let us continue

HUMAN MAGNETISM-

149

our talk on other matters. A little while ago you observed
that Mesmerism was a force Spiritual ; but I am not so
sure that you are correct. In my view it is a power Phy
sical-ultra physical or material it' may be, but physical
still.'
" ' What!t' said I, in amazement, 'human magnetism, that
mighty agent or power, which effects such grand effects, and
works such wonderful effects, Physical ?  Impossible !  The
very idea, excuse me, is absurd ; the assertion is simply ridi-
culous !'
"'So I once thought,' rejoined Ravalette, 'but think so
no longer ; and, mark me, the time is not very distant when
you will come to my side of the question. I will endeavor
to illustrate the point, one point of many, that comfirms my
view. For instance, the serpent tribe. We know      that
those reptiles charm birds and other animals, and that they
exert an influence upon their prey precisely like that exerted
by the magnetizer upon his subject, with this difference, that
the human subject exhibits none of that peculiar terror mani-
fested by the lower orders of being when under the spell of
fascination, and this difference arises from the fact that the,
animal has a clear instinct that the power is exercised for its
destruction, which the human subject is, of course, entirely
free from.
"' We see the snake exert the same marvellous power that
the human magnetizer does, and observe effects resulting
therefrom no less remarkable, and yet no- one for an instant
supposes that serpents are spiritual beings '


/

150,

RAVALETTE.

"'Now you are completely at my mercy.' thought I,
as I responded : 'Certainly the snake is a spiritual being
so long as he is alive, and exerts volition. He is a spiri-
tual thing-just as much as you or I.'
"'And dead ?' said Ravalette, inquiringly, 'is a mere
lump of clay--nothing more.
"'Then, Monsi ;ur Beverly, the argument is against you,
and is mine par -un coup majestique ! for the snake charms
just as powerfully when his skin is stuffed with straw and
cotton, as when with his own proper flesh, blood, and bones.
Innumerable experiments, instituted expressly to test this
question, have been made, and it, has been over and over
again decided that the charming or fascinating power is just
as strong after as previous to death.  This has been settled
by the actions of birds, who utter the same plaintive and pa-
thetic cries, exhibit the same terror and other phenomena, in
presence of a stuffed as in that of a living serpent., This is
a strong point in my favor; but one that is still stronger, in-
deed quite irrefutable, shall now be adduced. Persons em-
ployed in the fardin des Plants, and other zoological institu-
tions, find it dangerous work to clean out the dens of certain
serpents, even for weeks after the occupants have been re-
m ved, for the effiuvium--which, I take it, you will not
cla 1 to be other than physical-which they have left behind,
and hich constantly exhales from the floor and sides of the
den, is ound to be identical with that aura or sphere which
it is known they exhale when excited by the presence of
prey : 9nd the effects of this emanation from the den are

A SINGULAR EXPERIMENT.

151

precisely those that characterize the action of the living, pre-
sent, excited snake. Now, these facts had long been noticed,
and the results attributed to the fancy of the human subject,
until, at length, an unusual circumstance led to the institu-
tion of a course of experiments to set the matter at rest for-

ever.
India is the paradise of charring snakes, and a com-
mission was sent thither by the joint governments of Eng-
land and France, to test this matter thoroughly. This com-
mission settled upon Candeish, a province of the Decan,
where serpents most abound, and the experiments were made
simultaneously in the towns of Nunderbar, Sindwa, Dowlea,
Chapra, Jamneer, Maligaum, Chundoor, Kurgoon, Chorwa;
Bejagur, Hurdwa, Asseergurh, Hashungabad, and Boor-
humpore ; and they were made with thirty different species
of serpents, on eleven hundred and fifty-three human subjects,
of twenty-three different nations, and all sorts of tempera-
ments. First, these persons were subjected-under proper'
precautions, of course-to the mesmeric glance of hungry,
quiet, and enraged serpents. In all three cases the effects
were bad, all the subjects alike complaining of constriction of
the chest, loss of memory, and a very strange sort of vertigo.
As soon as the last. symptom manifested itself, the curtain
that separated the serpents from the men was dropped, and
proper baths and other restoratives resorted to. Secondly-
these same persons were all invited subsequently to a feast,
as a reward for their services. Serpents were securely fast-
ened in wooden boxes beneath the seats of three hundred

I


I.

RAVArETrE.

152

and sixteen of them, and of these two hundred and eighty.
four manifested the same symptoms as when under the direct
gaze of the serpents. Two months afterwards ninety-four of
the same persons, unknown to themselves, were placed to work
in an apartment built of the boards that had composed the
serpent dens, and the effects, a third time, were absolutely
identical ! Now, in this light, what becomes of your spirit-
ual hypothesis ! It is gone to the four winds of earth. But
to set the matter entirely at rest, and to give your spiritual
notion respecting Mesmerism its eternal quietus, let me call
your attention to the fact that if a man, any man, sits before
a swinging disk of black glass, and fixes his eye upon it, he
will eventually be as deeply magnetized and as lucidly clair.
voyant, as he would under the operation of the most power
ful magnetizer on the globe!l'.
"I felt that the tables were turned, and that the old
gentleman held me at his mercy. However, he forbore to
triumph, but went on; saying--
"' I do not say that the soul of man is physical, but I
know that his spirit is so ; for I proved that over sixty
years ago, to my complete and entire satisfaction. Do not,
I beg you, consider me a Materialist, or that I dispute the
existence of spirit. Far from that ! Your humble servant
is a firm believer, not only in spirit, but in a great Spirit-
ual Kingdom, more vast, varied, and beautiful than
this Material one; and believe .me, mon amri, when I affirm
that-. not more that one man in ten thousand has any
adequate idea of what he means when pronouncing the

IS IT r'OSSIrL1 ?

158

word Spirit ; not one man in thrice that number can properly
define it.
"'Furthermore, as a prehiade to what may yet befall you,
permit me to say that, in the face of modern philosophy, and
in direct contrariety to popular belief, it is my opinion that
spirit cannot produce on spirit the singular movements and
effects witnessed in mesmeric-and analogous phenomena ; but
I do not at all doubt the ability of matter to effect it all.
Yes, my friend, I believe that matter alone, without extrinsic
aid, is competent to the production of the magnetic wonders,
and a hundred others still more marvellous. For instance, I
do not believe that any merely mesmeric power whatever,
much less the dream-force of ordinary sleep, can, or, under
any conceivable circumstances, could enable you to correctly
read the inscriptions on the tablets in the Louvre, or probe
the secrets of Karnak, Baalbec, Nineveh, or Ampyloe ; but
I can name purely material agencies that are more than ade--
quate to the accomplishment of these, and infinitely greater
things. I know a material means that will enable the soul
to lay bare before its gaze the deepest mysteries of the highest
antiquity, strip the Past of its mouldy shroud, and trium-
phantly lift the veil that conceals the Future from our view
-or rather, your view.'
" The strange old man ceased, and, for a little time, my
mind lingered on his concluding words. It was .plain and
clear, so I thought, that he alluded to certain medicaments
which have long been used for the production of a species of
ecstatic dream, and so I replied-


1IAVALETTEi TEMPTS HIM~.       155

164               I1AVA~tI~f3a

"'You are doubtless correct, and can, by physical agents,
produce strange.psychical phenomena, and curious exhibitions
of mental activity and fantasy ; but, beyond all question,
you over-rate their importance and power, for not one of them,
is adequate -to the office of enabling a clear, strong mind to
move within the sphere of the Hidden, but the Real,'
"' To what do you allude particularly, mon ari ?'
"' I allude to various chemical and botanical compounds ;
for instance, those plants which furnish a large per centage
of the chemical principles Narcotine, Morphia, and others of
the same general characteristics, as Opium, Beng, and Hemp,
the preparations of the delightful but dangerous -,, the
equally fascinating decoctions of .-===, not forgetting
Hasheesh, that accursed drug, beneath whose sway millions
in the Orient have sunk into untimely but rainbow-tinted
graves, and which, in western lands, has made hundreds of
howling maniacs, and transformed scores of strong men into
the most loathly, drivelling idiots.'
"We lapsed into silence, which at length was broken by
Ravalette, who said, as he clasped my hand with fervor-
"'My dear young friend, there is here, in Paris, a high
and noble society, whose chief I am. This society has many
Rosicrucians among its members. Like the society to which
you belong, ours, also, has its head-quarters in the Orient,
Ever since I have known you, I have been anxious to have
you for a brother of our Order. Shall I direct your initia.
tion ?  Once with us, there is no branch of knowledge,
mystic or otherwise, that you will not be -able to attain, and,

compared to which, that of even the third temple of Rosi-
crucia is but as the alphabet to an encyclopaedia.'
"Much more lie said, but I had no desire to join his fra-
ternity, and firmly but respectfully told him  so ; where-
upon he cut short our conference by rising, as he did so,
observing--
"'You may regret it. I can tell you no more. The
society exists ; if you need it, find it-it may be discovered.
But see ! my groom and horse have arrived, and have long
been waiting.  I must, therefore, leave you.  Take this
paper ; open it when you see proper to do so. You will quit
Paris to-morrow, next day, or when you choose. You may
turn your face southward, instead of to the north as you pro-
posed. Seek me not till in your hour of greatest need. In
the meantime, I counsel you to obey, to the letter, your
highest intuitions. Adieu!'
" And so we parted. I loved Ravalette, but not his fra-
ternity. This conversation with Ravalette, and, indeed, my
entire intercourse with him, was invested with a peculiar halo
of what I may justly call the weird. It was evident that all
his words and allusions contained a deeper meaning than ap-
peared upon the surface. His conversation had filled my soul
with new and strange ideas and emotions ; and I felt that he
had left me at the inner door of a vast edifice, after skillfully
conducting me through the vestibule. What worlds of mys-
tery and meaning lay just beyond, was a theme of profound
and uneasy conjecture. I felt and knew that he was no come
mon or ordinary man ; and well and strangely was this proved
afterwards.

r

I


156

.AVALErT.

"I had solaced myself with the hope that, by deferring my
contemplated tour through Picardy and La Normandy, I
should draw closer the bonds of common sympathy between
us, and be made wiser through the abrasion of such an intel-
lect as his. How suddenly and how rudely was this hope
shattered !.
"When he dismissed me so abruptly, after baiting my soul
with such a splendid lure, I could but feel both astonished
and aggrieved. Thousands would have been too small a price
to pay for even one'"day more of his society ; but, alas ! thou-
sands could not purchase it. Still, I learned a lesson. There
are things in this world more valuable than even boundless
material wealth-knowledges, that neither Peru's treasures nor
the mines of Ind can buy ; and that Ravalette possessed an
abundant store of these priceless riches, there was not a single
lingering doubt.
" As his last words sounded the death-knell of all my
fondly air-built castles, I became apprised of a pact that had
heretofore escaped my notice ; and this was, that, for the
last ten minutes, a mounted groom, having a led horse in
hand, had stood patiently waiting under a large tree at the
south-eastern terminus of our promenade. As the old man
placed the sealed paper in my hand, this groom advanced aind
assisted his master to mount, and, as soon as he was firmly
seated in the saddle, they both gave rein and spur, and, urg-
ing the steeds into a round gallop, both horsemen were out
of sight before 'could recover from the stupor of surprise
/ into which the proceeding had thrown me."

I

CHAPTER III.
NOW COMES THE MYSTERY--A MAN GOES IN A CAB IN #*
SEARCH OF HIS OWN GHOST.
"PERHAPS three minutes elapsed before a full recovery
took place, and, at the end of that period, I had come to the
conclusion not to be baulked in quite such a cavalier style,
but to seek and obtain one more interview, come what might
therefrom. With this intention, I dashed along the hill-side,.
and at full speed through the principal thoroughfare of Belle-
ville, till I reached the barriere leading into the Rue Fau-
bourg du Temple, where, calling a cabriolet, I ordered the
driver to land me in the Rue Michel le Compte---where, a few
hours previously, I had dined with Ravalette-in the shortest
possible space of time.
" A curious thing took place while giving my orders to the
driver. It was this : Everybody knows that, at any of the
barrieres leading from Paris, a large crowd of blouses, men
and of office, women and children of the lower orders, may,
,im fair or foul weather, always be found-.-loiterers, having
nothing to do, apparently, except to lounge about, to see and
be seen. Such a crowd I found at the barriere, and amidst
it I noticed a bonnie, or nurse, having in charge three beauti-
ful children, one of whom, a lad of seven years, appeared to
1T7


A SURPRisE.  -,59

158              RAVALETT2.

take an unusual interest in myself, doubtless observing that I
was in a great hurry to accomplish something. This child,
as it saw me, ran to the nurse, and said, 'JIMa bonnet, Fran-
chette, what's the matter with the gentleman ?  Is he sick ?
What makes'him look so queer ?'
"'Hush, child,' said the woman in reply ; 'that gentle-
man is in search of what he won't find this long time!1'
"'What is that, Franchette ?'
" 'That gentleman is in search of his own ghost, mes en-
fants!' replied the nurse, as the children clustered around
her to hear the answer.
"'JMa foi!' echoed the crowd.of idlers, as they caught the
woman's words-whether'spoken in jest or seriously I cannot
say-' M1a foi ! the gentleman takes a cab to go in search of
his own ghost!1' And the cab drove off as these words were
echoed by a hundred tongues.
" 'What the devil does it meani?' asked I of myself, rather
irreverently, as a Guebre would say, had one heard me. 'What
does it mean?' -What put such a queer notion as that in the
woman's head ?' And, while cogitating for an answer, the
cab stopped before the required gateway. Hastily dismount-
ing,   aid the, man half a gold louis, refused the offered
chang , but, dismissing him with a word of praise at his
alacrity,  hastily rang the bell to summon the concierge or
porter.. That personage speedily made his appearance, all
the quicker from the unwonted vigor applied to the bell-rope,
"'Is your master in the house, mon ami ?'
"' 0ui, monsieur: he has not been absent to-day.'

"'WhatI' Not been absent, when he left me not thirty
minutes ago? Impossible ! Monsieur Ravalette must have
been absent.'
"'But who is Monsieur Ravalette ? I know of no such
person. Monsieur Jacques d'Einprat is my master, and not
the person you have mentioned!I'
" Here was a fresh mystery. 'Call Monsieur Jacques
d'Emprat, if you please.'
" 'G ertainement, monsieur. Jeanette, ny dear, go up-
stairs and tell the patron here's a gentleman wants to see
him.'
" Jeanette, a little girl of twelve years, flew to execute
the errand, and in a few moments the landlord himself apd
peared ; and I was surprised to find that the well-aproned
butler who had attended upon us at dinner and the proprie-
tor of the house were one and the same person. An expla-
nation soon followed, and I learned that Ravalette, who was
an entire stranger to the landlord, had come there two days
previously for the purpose of engaging a sumptuous dinner
for two persons, that being the landlord's business-a caterer.
For the dinner he had paid a round price in advance, and
had given the proprietor a small silver coin of peculiar work-
manship as a memorial of his visit. This coin or medal the
man produced, and, -lo I it was a  perfect fac-simile, on a
larger scale, of the jewel I had that very day examined in
the scarf of Ravalette at Belleville. To my question as to
when he last saw my mysterious friend, the patron answered :
'I do not know him, where he is, when I next shall see him

'U

}1


160                PAV.t ~'r1r .

ALL IS NOT GOLD THAT GLITTERS.     161

-nothing whatever. He left with you, and has not
since returned.' He is   evidently a  mysterious man ;
and were it not that I have this little medal to com-n
memorate his visit, together with three hundred and ten
francs in gold in my pocket, Which he paid me for the wines
and dinner, I should more than half believe that he was the
Devil himself out for a lark in Paris. But the Devil never
pays in gold, so those say who ought to know, and I am
sure Ravalette paid me in bran new coin, which, on account
of its beauty and full weight, I just tied up in one end of my
long leather purse, meaning to give it to my daughter, at
school in Dijon, for a birth-day gift. Here's the money, as
you perceive, nicely tied up, and sealed with wax, just as I
fixed it an hour or two after Ravalette paid me.
" With these words the honest landlord dcrew forth A
most formidable-looking bourse, one end of which was, as he
said,-- securely tied with twine, and sealed with a great blotch
of red wax.
"'Yes, monsieur, here's the cash ; I cannot show it to
you, because I don't like to break the string or wax ; but as
a sound is worth as much as a sight, you shall hear it jingle
to your heart's content.'
"And so saying, he struck the purse against the side of
the gateway ; but, instead of the merry clink of gold coin,
we heard only the dull sound of a far less valuable metal.
This startled him not a little. He changed color, then drew
his knife, and in an instant cut the string, and emptied the
contents of the purse upon his open palm.

"Horrible I Instead of bright golden Louis, he held in
his hand a small pile of leaden disks ?  Each one of these
disks had a number and a letter on it, and one of them was
engraved, on the obverse side, with the simple words-' Place
the coins in order.' We did so, and found that each letter
formed part of- a word. When they were all placed, the in-
scription read, 'All is not gold that glitters!'
" My soul quailed before the mystery. I could scarcely
move or speak, so great was my bewilderment ; and as for
the patron, it is impossible to describe his terror and con-
sternation, as he stood there, with open mouth and protrud-
ing eyeballs, gazing on the coins upon the board where he
had laid them. I too looked upon them ; and even while we
did so, a terrible thing took place ; for the letters upon the
disks changed color before our very eyes, first to a light blue,
changing to deep crimson, and finally assuming a blood-red
color. When, at the end of thirty seconds, this color did not
change, we looked closer at them, and, to our absolute amaze-
ment, found that the characters themselves had altered, and
instead of the sentence above quoted, we read the following :
"' Remember Ravalette ! Fear not I'
" With a cry of agony the man dashed the- accursed coins
to the ground, and instantly fell himself in a deathly swoon.
A. great excitement now ensued. The porter, Jeanette, and
half a dozen other inmates, rushed to the assistance of their
fallen master.
"Tenderly and carefully we bore him into the house, and
speedily resorted to-those well-known means of restoration used

III
11
I i
iif
I,


A DIFFICULT MATTER.          163

in such cases, which it were superfluous to mention ; suffice it
that, at the expiration of half an hour, the mai revived, and
bidding him and the rest a short good-bye, and promising to
return on the morrow if I did not quit Paris, I took my de-
parture.
" Before I ieft, however1, it occurred to me that I would
secure the marvellous coins, or, at least, a few of them ; and
for this purpose I, accompanied by the concierge, who had
seen his master dash them away, went into the court-yard
where he had thrown them. Carefully and long we searched
over the smooth -stone pavements. The marks where they
had struck were there, but not a single coin could be found.
It was absolutely certain that no person in the house had
picked them up, for all these were'n attendance on the pat-
ron. It was equally certain that no one from the street had
done so ; for the gate was fast bolted and shut, and had been
ever since I had entered the premises to inquire of the porter.
" At length we gave up the task of finding them as utterly
hopeless. I looked at the porter and shook my head; the
porter looked at me and shook his head in return, as much
as to say, 'It is a very strange affair!i' At that moment a
voice, coming from. God knows where, for it seemed to issue
neither from above nor below, in the house or out of it-a hol-
low, half-pathetic, half-cynical voice, echoed our unspoken
thought-'It is a vERY strange affair!' The horror-stricken
porter crossed himself devoutly, and, falling on his knees, be-
gan to pray, while I in the meanwhile undid the bolts, opened
the port, and rushed into the open street.

",The thing was altogether of so weird a character.
that I almost doubted the evidence of my senses ; yet,
on recalling all the circumstances from first to last, the
testimony affirming the events was altogether too strong,
overpowering and direct, to be doubted for an instant.
" In books of ancient lore ; in the old Black letter vo-
lmes of antiquity ; in the recital of the exploits of Appolo-
nius of TYAN4E; in the Life of Darwin ; in the story of Gru-
gantus, and in the 'Records of the Weird Brethren of Ap-
pulia,' I had read of Magic Marvels, almost too wonderful
for the belief of those ignorant masses contemporaneous with
the authors and heroes of the various legends. But in the
light of modern learning, all these things had been resolved
into three primitive elements, and these were :1st., and
principal. Ignorance of the Masses. 2d. The clouds of super-
stition which for long ages hovered over the world. And, 3d.
The amazing skill possessed by the various arch-impostors of
antiquity. Thus I accounted for much that was reported to
have taken place in 'ye Olden Tyme;' but how to explain
away what myself and several others had just witnessed, on the
same easy and general hypothesis, was a task altogether be-
yond achievement. To attempt to get rid of the difficulty on
the supposition of mere 'Fancy,' was simply ridiculous : and
yet, while one does not feel at liberty to admit the idea of
Magic, here were circumstances of such a tremendous cha-
racter, as to utterly forbid and defy explication upon any
other ground whatever.
" This was the current of my thoughts as I left the street

I"

jI
'
,f  z

_
r
-
'.
,
t
k;
f ,
.',

AiH

10                   RAVAZE .


164

RAVALETTE'

of Michel le Compte, and turned up that of the T   apk
As I slowly walked along, buried in a labyrinth of conjec
;ure, the idea suddenly occurred to me that perhaps, aftei
all, Ravalette and the people of the house in the Rue Michel
le Compte, might merely have been performing parts in a.
very cleverly designed, and capitally acted drama ; though
how to account for the kaleidoscopic changes of the coins, I
could not at first imagine. 'Ah 1' said I, at length, 'I have
it ! Hurrah !   Bravo !   Eureka, ten times over ! The
secret's out, and I'm the man that found it!1' A sudden.,
thought occurred to me, by the aid of which, even the coin
mystery, was cleared up most satisfactorily ; and that which
ten minutes before was a profound and horrible mystery,
was now, apparently, as clear as the noontide sun. Here is
the train of reasoning which led me to this hopeful result: Ra-
valette was a wealthy and eccentric gentleman, who, observ-
ing my natural enthusiasm for the antique, and aptitude to
the occult, had determined to either amuse himself and friends
at my -expense, possibly for the purpose of curing some of
them of what, perhaps, he regarded as the same weakness
or, taking pity on what he looked upon as a sad and danger-
ous infatuation, had resorted to this rather costly experi-
ment, in the hope that at its termination a perfect cure
might be effected. The people in the house were, together
with the woman and children at the Barriere, his confederates
in the scheme. He was a learned inan ; saw that I could
not be easily taken in ; and therefore brought the wonders
of chemical and ventriloquial sciences to his assistance-the

I

I

A INE THEORY.

165

latter in the affair of the floating voice, the former in the
matter of the coils or disks, .These coins had been coated
with a substance that would, on exposure to the atmosphere,
exhale away ;- and with this exhalation the first set of cha-
racters would of course disappear. Beneath this external
coating was another, which, on contact with the air, would
assume a peculiar color ; beneath this, in turn, was another,
and-,still another ; the last of all, being that on which was
written the last series of letters composing a sentence. The
appearance of these words was the cue to the patron to utter
his cry, dash the coiiis from his hands, and pretend to swoon,
In the commotion resultant therefrom, attention would be
drawn from the cause of the apparent disaster, and afford
ample opportunity for their removal, The sentence, 'It is a
very strange afair,' would be the very one naturally sug-
gested under the circumstances, and had happily been-selected
as the most fitting one to afford exercise to the ventriloquist
employed ; and this apparent echoing of an unspoken thought
.would add additional piquancy to the scene, and materially
assist in piling up the horripilant.'
" There ! was not that a fine specimen of analysis-? it
was almost perfect, and would have answered most admira-
bly had it not been for one little thing, and that was, simply,
that it was not true-a trifling objection, perhaps, yet one
absolutely fatal. Why, will be seen hereafter.
"I was just about half satisfied with my ingenious specu-
lation, and no more, after the first burst of joy.at my sup.
posed discovery had subsided, and .cool reason once more

Y '
S
t I
i
a
tRt
F
f
E
F
t

i' I


166

1AVALErrE

took the helm. Be it true or false, I determined to go back
to Belleville and pursue my investigations a little further. A
passing omnib         rought me to the Barriere, and to
my great joy   saw the identical party that had made the
curious remark about my being in search of my own ghost.
The nurse and children were intently watching the evolutions
of a set of nomadic marionettes, and listening to the stereo-
type drolleries of the man in the box who worked the little
puppets. Luckily the whole party, with at least three hun-
dred others,'were so taken up with the antics of Polichinel
and his shrew of a wife, that the young ones nor the nurse
saw me. I therefore stepped into a coffee-shop close at hand,
called for a tasse, and then sent one of the waiters to fetch
the woman with tile three children dressed in yellow velvet-
een.   The man obeyed, and speedily returned, followed by
the party sent for.
"Upon seeing who it was that had summoned her, the
young woman felt alarmed, fearing that the remarks she had
made, when I entered the cab an hour or so previously, had
offended me, and that my present business was to cause her
to be punished for her insolence. For of all places on this
civilized earth, Paris is the one where a stranger is best
protected from injury or impertinence-at least, it then was.
I soon set the woman's mind at ease on that point ; and hav-
ing purchased some g&amp;teaux for the children, and the same,
with a vessel of coffee, for the nurse, I requested her to be
seated, and tell me what caused her to use such curious terms,
with regard to myself, a little while before.

I

THE GIR~L EXPLAINS.

167

i~j

"' Lord bless you, sir,' she said, 'I did but repeat what
an old man said who stood on the side of the carriage oppo-
site to that by which you entered. I had just crossed over
from his side when you saw and heard me. As you came
running down the street, everybody saw you, and that you
were in a hurry, and several persons made observations as to
the cause of your great haste. Said one, "The man's mad 1"
said another, "His woman has just run off with a lover, tak-
ing his twins along for company's sake, and he's after them
with a sharp stick '" .Said the old man at my side, "He's in
search of what he won't. find very soon." " What's that,
sir ?" I ventured to ask., " He's in search of-ahem !--in
search of-his own ghost, my dear !" said the old man, as he
darted up the street. The notion was so funny, that I re--
membered it all the while I was crossing the street-a very
long time for us Bonnes to recollect anything, mon c/icr ami;
and when Auburt there asked me what ailed you, why, I
looked wise, and repeated the grey-beard's observation, and
---another cup of coffee, if you please-that was- all.'
"I breathed freer. 'But tell me, my dear, what sort of
man this old fellow was?' 'Certaimly-another gteaugarpon;
monsieur will pay for it-certainly!1' and the young woman
went on to describe---Ravalette ! as well as I could have done
myself, had that mysterious individual stood before me then
and there. It was enough. I was satisfied, and determined
to push my inquiries further. I thanked the girl, paid the
bill of thirty-five sous, left the place, and hurried as fast as I
possibly could to the flower-gardens, that, it will be remem-

it

I

I AV

hi


168 RAVALETlk
bered, Ravalette and myself had visited together. I went
to the first one, and asked the gardener if he had seen the
old man who had bee .my companion on a recent visit, an
hour or two before:?
"'Old man.?   Well, you are a funny man, to call a boy
of seventeen years an old man:  I recollect you well enough,
for you bought.a fine bouquet, one of the damask roses com-
posing which you now carry in your button-hole. I remem-
ber you well enough, apd the beardless stripling, your com-
panion ; but I have nbt seen him since you both left to-
gether.'
"'Bah, my friend I' said I, 'it won't do. I know per-
fectly well that my comrade here was not a youngster, but a
man of full seventy years of age, if a single day !''
"' Sacri bleu ! You'd better tell me I lie at. once, and be
done with it ! You may say it was an old man, but I'l be
cursed if it wasn't a young one, not yet out of his teens ; and
.what's more to the purpose, I'll back my opinion, and bet you
an even bottle of Jean Laftte, forty-two years old, that the
person who accompanied you here this day was a small, thin,
sallow-faced youth of not over fifteen years ! Will you take
the wager ?'
"'Yes, and forty more just like it ; but who shall be our
umpire, and decide the bet ?'               ..
"'pWhy, let the witnesses, my men, and my wife or dauigh-
ter, decide. I'll warrant they won't-1ie for the sake of a
bottle of wine. Are you agreed?'
" 'Yes, call them on ; I'14 trust them.'

"'Of curse you may, for they are honest folks. JMy wife
let you both in at the door ; I sold you a bouquet; one of
my men went round the garden with you, and the other ran
to fetch change for the five-franc piece'you gave me to take
pay from. Here, wife, Joseph, and Pierre; come here all
of you. I've made a bet with the gentleman, and want you
three to decide it.'
"In a moment the persons called stood before us, and the
gardener said to me : 'Now, monsieur, you and I will go to
the other end of the garden ; when there, I will describe to you
the person who accompanied you here this afternoon. Then
we will call the witnesses, one at a time, first separating them,
so that they cannot. agree upon a uniform story for or against
me, but give the truth exactly, as the truth appears to each
one.'
" Nothing could be fairer than this proposition, and there-
fore I gave my asse.nt. to it immediately; whereupon the two
men were sent to stand at opposite ends of the garden, his
wife took her place in a third, while her husband and myself
went ,to the fourth. Having arrived there:
"'Your friend,' said the gardener, 'was just as I have de-
scribed him, with this addition, that he wore polish-leather
shoes, a Leghorn or Panama hat, carried a switch cane, wore
light jean pantaloons, a coat au saque, and vest of white
Cashmere. Remember this. Now, Joseph, come here,' said
he, raising his voice and motioning the man toward us. ' Be
so good as to describe the person who came here to-day with
this gentleman.'
8

THE SINGULAR WAGER.        1

169

.t
r
s
j
i X


THE MYSTERY THICKENS.

I will with pleasure, master. The negro 'who came
with this gentleman was very fat and heavy, had large splay
feet, tremendous hands, broad, flat face, a nose that would
weigh a pound, and lips twice as heavy. His hair was
woolly, teeth very white and regular; and he wore low shoes,
green cap, knee breeches, red vest, and purple jacket!'
" It is difficult to say which of us two looked most aston-
ished when Joseph finished his portrait of my companion.
Joseph was the man who conducted us around the garden.
We were the only visitors of the day, and-
"'Damn it, Joseph, you must be crazy,! for the man
was
"'Hold on 1' said I to the gardener ; 'remember the
terms of our wager, and say nothing, till all havel been ques-
tioned on the subject ;' then, turning to the man, I said:
' Go to your corner, Joseph. Pierre, come hither ;' and he
came.
" ' Now, my friend, we want you to accurately describe
the individual who accompanied me to these gardens to-day.
Tell us' exactly how the person appeared to you. Will you,
my friend ?'
"'Oui, certainement. The old lady you mean. Malateste !
It makes me laugh-pardonez moi, monsieur, but I can't help
it-it makes me laugh to think about her, ma foi! What a
queer old lady it was, to be sure ! Such a little pinched-up
face ; and what a nose and chin, look you! Ecod l it was
for all the world la casse-noix-a regular pair of nut-crack-
ers ! Certes, I took her to be the grandmother of Methu-

salah, or sister to Adam's first wife. Oh, ho, ho-he, ha, peste !
I shalt die o' laughing ! And then such a dress! Not a sin-
gle article of cloth about her, but all she wore made of thin
green-and-blue morocco ; and then such dainty slippers, look-
ing for all the world as if made of the wings of Pappilon!
and such a head-dress-withered flowers, and two bushels of
faded ribbon ! Par le grande Dieu, the lady was a queer
one !' and Pierre went-back to his corner, laughing as if he
would explode.
"The gardener looked astonished beyond all measure.
How I looked cannot be-told; but how I felt, 0no mortal
pen could possibly describe. We both kept silent, and ad-
vanced to where Madame la. Jardiniere stood, patiently.
waiting her turn to be questioned, and impatiently wonder-
ing what was the matter with Pierre, the fellow laughed so
uproariously, and enjoyed 'the feast of memory' with such a
decided gusto.
"'Ma here femme,' said my comrade, 'will you please be
so good as to .describe the person whom you admitted here
to-day along with monsieur?  Certes, I believe the Devil
himself is at the bottom of the business, for no two persons
are agreed in description. But you, my darling, you, who
are all the while reading poetry books ;--all about Vido
(Ovid ?), and Virgil, and Spearshaker, and all those great
people-you can describe this person perfectly,; can't you,
my sweet?' and the gardener looked imploringly at his plump
and buxom compagnon de lit.
"Now, of all mortals it is most unsafe and dangerous to

171

170

RAVALETITE.

ii
ij~
14
{1 '


RAVALETTJE.

flatter a French woman, and madame was French all the
way through ; consequently she determined, on so fitting an
occasion, to prove her husband's encomiums perfectly well
founded ; and she began the display with a quotation from
the Bard of Avon's Midsummer Night's Dream.
"'Ah, mon ange avec les bottes-my angel in boots-do you
not know that Joseph has been a poet ever since I instructed
him in trochees, dactyls, spondees, dythyrambics, hexameters,
iambics, acatalectics, and-anapests---and'-_
"'Oh, may the devil fly away with all of your Anna
cats, or Mary cats !-damn all cats ! And as for your Anna
Pests-why, what's she got to do with Joseph ? 'Is she
another grisette the fellow's running after?  Why, that's
fifteen different women in fifteen weeks. I can't see 'how the
fellow's' constitution stands it : and then you've done the in-
troducing business ?  Shame on you-you ought to be'---
"Here I stepped in and told the gardener that his lady
did not mean cats or females, but simply feet, measures, and
seansions of poetry. This mollified him, and the lady cour.
tesied to me, and resumed :
"'Yes, darling--ogre'-this last was spoken sub voce--
'yes, dearest, the gentleman's right. Joseph is a poet ; Pierre
is a lunatic ; and the gentleman himself is beyond all question
as deeply in love as he can get ; and these are the reasons
why neither describes the person who attended with him
alike. That prince of soldiers, who because he was so terri-
ble in war, when he shook his spear, the English call Shake-
the-spear, says that-

172

AND STILL THICKENS.,173
"'Lovers and madmen have such seething brains,
Such shaping fantasies that apprehend more than cool
Reason comprehends.
The lover, the lunatic, and the poet are of imagination
All compact.. One sees more devils than vast hell can hold--.
That is the madman. The lover, all as frantic, sees
Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt.
The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling,
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven,
And as imagination bodies forth the forms of things,
The poet's pen turns them to shapes, and gives
To airy nothings a local habitation and a name.'
"'Bit what, my dear, has all this to do with the ques-
tions I asked you? . Look here, Ninette ; I believe it's you
that's gone mad, rose in love-sacre !-I wish I could catch
you and your Shake-the-spear loving once. I'd fix him and
you too, my lady, that I would ! I'd fix his flint so that he
wouldn't shake any more spears around my garden, that I
would ! Will you have done with all your rigmarole, and
tell what you know ?'
"' Certainly. The gentleman's sweetheart, who came
with him to-day, and who went with me into my private, room
to arrange her hair and adjust her petticoats, was as fine and
pretty a young blonde of eighteen years as ever sat a man's
heart beating triple bobmajors against his ribs. Such ankles,
such feet, such a bloom upon her cheeks and lips !-ah ! and
such a tournure ! such hips, such embonpoint ! Sacristie !
it's lucky I was not a man when I fixed her crinoline, or, m
fosI I should have gone mad-and run off with her, leaving

41
FC
{ 1xJs

f
i
Si
g;
.
'  'F
R
6
;
'f
S 1
f4;
A'"
d-
_     h
S .
L
i


DEEPER AND DEEPER.

monsieur to mourn his loss, while I revelled in the essence of
love with his fiance. Besides that'--
"'Stop, stop, Ninette-for God's sake stop ! I have lost
a bottle of Jean Lafitte, forty odd years old, and lost my
brains besides!l'
" Here the whole five of us collected in a group, and an
explanation followed which instantly banished all mirth from
Pierre, and all poetry from la fardiniere.
" Declining all thoughts of the wager and the wine, I left
the party in a maze of stupor, and sped as hastily as I could
to the Guinguette, or Tea-Garden, where, it will be remem-
bered, Ravalette and myself had entered to converse with
the' proprietor regarding his novel and costly experiment in
the way.of.feasting poor people a la les rickeuse.
"Entering this place, I put the same question to the pro-
prietor that I had to the gardiner and the man of Michel ale
Compte.; but instead of .surprise at his answer, :I was
absolutely dumb-founded, for the man insisted that I en-
tered the shop quite alone, but that I had conversed with
,him in two separate and perfectly distinct voices, au ventril-
oque-which he had regarded as very singular, but concluded
that ,I was astudent of ventriloquism, and took every oppor-
tunity to test my proficiency, and had now come back to
ascertain what success attended -the experiment.
" I was too much horrified to -speak-; but, simply nodding
my adieux, took my. departure in a mood much easier to be
imagined than described.
"Not yet content. I made inquiries :as to whether any

1

one had seen two horsemen of a peculiar description pass
through any of the streets of Belleville.
"Nobody had seen any such, or indeed any horsemen
whatever. I was thunderstruck.
"' I'll track them 1' I cried, as a last resource; 'for the
place where we walked, where the horse and groom stood
waiting, and where the old man mounted, was a soft, yield-
ing, grassless turf. This will decide whether I have been
dealing with the living or the dead, and that too in this
broad daylight.'-
" I ran thither. Not a trace of a horse's hoofs ; not a
single vestige of Ravalette's footprints save one, and that one
the fac-simile of the description formerly given. My own
foot-marks were plain enough, but only the one other was to
be :found ! Here the mystery grew thicker and thicker, nor
could I see the first glimmer of a way to clear it up.
" Slowly and despondently, I retraced my steps toward
Paris, taking care to inquire as I went, whether any person
had seen two men on horseback go toward Charronne, Vil-
lette, Menilmontant, or through the Barrieres. I might
just as well not have asked.
" But the chapter of devilry was not yet concluded, for
what subsequently took place actually threw all that had
gone before it entirely in the shade. These things I will now
relate, first premising my narrative.
" One day, about a week before I first spoke to Ravalette
in- the Louvre, I happened to be spending an afternoon in
the Palais Royale, along with my friends the Barons di Cor-

175

FI
,Lr
I
= i
It

1 74

ERAVALErfTE.

ie
S
Kr

ii  i


li;                 .EAVALETTE.
vaja and Du P-t, to both of whom I had taken letters
from America. On the day alluded to, I met at D-    's
room in the Rue Beaujolais, and then and there became ac-
quainted -with, an English gentleman of easy means and
polished mind, by the name of Carr. This gentleman resided
with his family in a splendid mansion in the Rue du Chemin
Vert. After a long and interesting conversation, we parted,
but not till Mr. Carr had cordially taken me by the hand,
expressed a desire to maintain the acquaintance, and invited
me to call on him at his residence in the Rue du Chemin
Vert. I felt gratified at his frankness, and accepted his
polite invitation. Mr. Carr named the day, and I agreed to
go ; and accordingly had spent the evening and took tea wilh
him,. his family and a few select guests, some five or six days
before the eventful day, the achievement of which I have just
recounted. The thing which I am aboat-to narrate is not
only strange, but in many respects horrible, and my mind is
agitated to the last degree by the astounding occurrences--.
things which I beheld with my own eyes, felt with my own
senses, realized with my own spirit ; and yet I scarcely dare
give credit to that which I am sensible cannot, could not have
been an illusion. My soul is filled with wonder; and I
hasten to give a true version of the affair while all is yet
fresh and vivid before me ; indeed, it will ever be so, till
age shall umb my faculties."

CHAPTER IV.
MURDER WILL OUT.
" THE circumstances were, briefly, these :
" I attended, as before observed, the f~te seiale, at tho
house of my friend Mr. Carr-Leonard Carr. The party
was given in honor of a young literary friend of the family,
who had recently gained great renownas a writer of fiction.
To this young man I was introduced just before we all sat
down to the festive board to partake of the many good
things so bounteously set before us.
" After the repast was concluded we all adjourned to the
parlor and entered into conversation. Topic after topic had
been discussed, and at length the 'Turning tables,' then so
rife in all parts of .the world, and Paris especially, became
the theme of observation and criticism.
"'Bah!' said Mrs. Carr, 'I deem the whole thing silly,
besides being one of the most contemptible humbugs ever ran
after by a pack of silly people-I was going to say-fools : I
am convinced there is really nothing in it, and that all this
stuff about moving furniture, and ghosts, and other spectral
gentry, is but the product of heated fancy, if not of heads and
hearts devoid of truth, principle, and moral rectitude ; stories
got up for swindling purposes, and to gull that credulous
8*                  12

11Nlt

Ii
A{
t 2.
Al
z S
arki


178

RAVALETTE.

pack of ninnies known as " The Public,"-and a precious set
they are, to be sure ! Who believes, for instance, a tithe
of the reputed wonders of the famous American "Miracle
Circle," or that they are anything more than clever tricks
played off by a set of waggish fellows on a gullible commu-
nity of Yankees, having in view the ultimate object of expos-
ing and exploding the whole so-called spiritual mysteries ? I
don't, I'm sure.'
- Poor ,lady'! She little dreamed under what cruel cir-
cumstances she was doomed so soon to.verify the truth of the
Latin motto,
"Nemo mortalium, omnibus horis sapit,'
so meaningly quotedto myself by Ravalette. Little did she
then dream, in the plenitude of intellect, that not many days
would elapse ere she admitted all she now so mockingly and
scornfully derided and laughed at, and that ere long she would
cower in the very extremity of terror and mental dread,
before these very mysteries she now so dogmatically denied.
" Her husband took upon himself the task of answering
her, thus relieving us guests of the always unpleasant office
of holding a -wordy contest with a woman. He said:
"'You are, my dear, permit me to say, in behalf of my-
self and these gentlemen, a little too hasty in your .conclu-
sions, too- sweeping in your remarks, and in the characteriza-
tion of the wonderful phenomena of these latter days. I
know, my love, that' you will give me credit for rather more
than the -usual share of suspicion, scepticism, and doubt,
regarding -certain marvellous- things said to have recently

U

ABOUT SPIRITISM.

'7.;9

taken place in England, America, and even here in Paris.
You know that it is my nature to admit nothing as proved-
especially of such an implied nature-without absolute demon-
strative evidence. The proof must be irrefragible--the tes-
timony unbroken and indubitable, else .I accept nothing.  I
certainly do not believe in spirits, much less that such things
come to this world and flit and move around us, taking in-
terest in all our affairs, and meddling with pur business in a
thousand ways, as it is alleged they do by those who be-
lieve in them. And yet, with all, this, :I confess, that I have
seen things that stagger me-indeed, that demonstrate be-
yond dispute the existence of a, power, mighty, secret, occult,
and working out its marvellous designs without the, slightest
human aid or influence whatever. Mind me, I do not .attri-
bute any or all of these results to spiritual agency, but I do say
that, the force at bottom is marvellously intelligent, and for all
the world like that of man's. for instance, you will remem-
her F   -, who came from America to astonish the:French.
Well,.actuated by curiosity, I resolved to form one of a cir-
cle of, six,.who had made arrangements to test his powers at
his own roomns. Accordingly we met him by appointment
at the Cafe Jouony near the Palaise Royal, and together
we, seven started for his:,hotel. Now,.as I walked.along, the
idea suggested itself, that perhaps the fellow  had made
arrangements in his rooms to surprise us by a resort to some
mountebankish performance, and therefore, in order. to try
his sincerity, and at the same time guard against any mere
trickery or legerdemain, , I. suggested that we repair to-

I'M

i
lye
t
rt
b
i
If' k
1 1
i
1   +3
.   a
F..
AtF
l
f 3
r         J
ar
-f
1-k
a
i
7
C
k           h
f '
F r}        i
l  fF       J
h
Ye       +
+  t        j
7           f


180

RAVALErrE.

apartments elsewhere than at his hotel. To my surprise he
assented to this arrangement without a murmur, and we
repaired to a room at the house of one of the company, Mon-
sieur Benjamin, in the Rue de Olichy. When there, we all
sat around a- small table with our fourteen hands laid flat
upon its top. For a while nothing occurred, save a few
knocks or thumps upon the table, which F  attributed to
spirits, but which I suspected his knees produced. While
thus we. sat (it was broad daylight, and the sun shone
brightly through  the windows), we distinctly saw, and
I actually, palpably felt of, a fifteenth hand. This hand was
apparently solid flesh and blood. It appeared to be that
of a mulatto girl of fifteen or sixteen summers, and one of" the
party subsequently told me in confidence that it was the very
fac-simile of the right hand of a.girl whom he once know in
the Isle de Bourbon, and who had destroyed herse " by
poison for love of the very man who told me the story t This
hand came from beneath the table and extended itself eight
or ten inches over the edge at first. Then it gradually rose
in the air, displaying a magnificent set of fingers, apon the
middle joint of one of which appeared the sembl-nco of a
large and peculiarly-shaped brown mole, surrounded by three
smaller ones, and it was by these marks that my friend pre-
tended to recognize it. The hand was attached to about two-
fifths of a fore-arm, completely covered with the semblance of
a lace sleeve, terminating at the wrist in a jewelled band, and
at the other extremity by a flaring and projecting ruffle. The
hand, after a while, rose into the air, *here it floated fo

THE SPECTRAL HAND.

181

Ii
f
H
I
3
h
4i
.K
i
x
L
Z
6
E
8
" 1x

two minutes. It then descended, seized hold of a small
silver bell upon the mantel and rung it sharply all over
the room ; after which it replaced it, took hold'of a pencil
and wrote forty-seven words upon the ceiling of the lofty-
vaulted apartment ; threw down the pencil, patted each of
our hands, and then gradually faded away in the air, just
over the centre of the table. We rose after it had gone,
placed a stand upon the table, a chair upon that, so as to
reach the writing on the wall (which yet remained there),
and found a short message to the company in general, and
signed by the very name of Mr.      's inamorata of the
Isle de Bowrbon !   Now, my dear, was all this hum-
bug ?"
"To this, the lady, whose scepticism would not abate one
jot, even in the face of such an-to all but a Rosicrucian-
overwhelming demonstration as this, replied :
"'Why, I presume you had all taken a little too much
wine, fell asleep, got up, wrote on the wall, and-Bah ! It's
all humbug ! and that settles the question at once 1'
" The lady was silent, and the literary lion--I will call
him Mr. A-, for whom the party was gotten up, entered
the arena of conversation, and observed that : 'Spectral
or Spiritual science-he preferred the former term-was yet
but in its infancy in Christendom, provided what a casual
acquaintance of his, a man of extraordinary research in all
things occult, and whom he had met under peculiar circum-
stances but a little while before-affirmed to be true with
regard to the faith, philosophy, and practices of a certain

1
'Mit
"    It


182

EAVALETT.

branch or rather family of the Hindoos 0r other eastern
tribes.
" 'This individual,' pursued Mr. A-, 'is. a firm and
devout believer in Spiritualism, and yet contends that not
over: two-tenths of what passes current under that term, is
really that which it is claimed to be. Nay, further : e
declares, and gives his reasons .why, which latter are very
just and tenable,;thatnot more than once in fifty times are
the actions and speeches delivered under trance the result, of
Spiritual action ; but that when not the absolute offspring of
imposture, which is rarely the case, other, and very oftenp relf
physical. causes are at work, which, are frequently far more
potent than what is known as " spiritual influence," inasmuch
as the- results are productive of better, greater, and more
satisfactory phenomena, and of far more interest and, value to
mankind, and which have been entirely overlooked in the
haste and zeal:,with which people seek to gratify their thirst
for the . marvellqus, by attributing whatever ,baffles their
powers of analysis. to-a. supermundane origin.
" 'This person,' continued Mr. A., 'asserted also that he
could himself produce similar and even far more wonderful
and startling effects, by means entirely material, than many
which are. claimed to originate beyond the earth. ".This"
said: he, " I can do, under circumstances that..will forever put
the quietus on one portion of the spiritual theory. There is
a science in existence that may very properly be called
Spectreology or :Phantomism,. whose wonders vie with the
best of those emanating really; from the spirit.world, I"  Pur-

MORE MAGIC LOOMING,

183

i
t.
1
F'
1 $
t :44
Ft
S
N
r
R
t
i
i
2
i
,8

ing :his travels in the Orient, he' said, the mdus geram4i gf
several startling effects had been-imparted to him by napersen
named Ramo Djava, and that, were:it not for. his greatly im-
paired healthy which rendered the experiments aHnded to'
highly dangerous, he would givepublic displays of his, power.
As .to the means used, that must remain.a secret, for he had
promised ,to initiate only one person, and that not- till his
dying;hour. But, at all events,lie was willing to demonstrate,
before a select ! few, that there really is more betwwe earth
and heaven than even, the loftiest savants dream of.
'Having my -curiosity thus excited, I, with great diAi-
culty, prevailed on this person to consent. to give .a display
of his ability, before . a select circle of eighteen. I have in-
vited ive .persons, and the present company will exactly
complete the requisite number, and I cheerfully:extend you
all, an invitation to be present at half-past six o'clock pre-
cisely, at the mansion of our -mutual friend, the Baron de
Marc, this day week!'
" This ended the conversation ;n that particular theme, and,
shortly afterwards, the party dissolved,agreeing to meet again
on the night mentioned, which,.strange. coincidence ! was. the
very one of the singular adventure with ' the ghost of .Rava-
lette ;' for, to tell the truth, I had by this time, begun to sus-
pect that imy old man of the Louvre-he awho appeared under
three different aspects at one and the same tine,;,nay,..under
fiee, and whowas heard to speak,. though himself unseen, by
the man of the ringuette-was something more than mortal.
"You must bear in mind the fact, that the party and con-

w
{Sr
,r
"hi
t
i
j tl
1 1.
LI. ;
1
i
t
i


SATAN IN PARIS.

RAVALETTE.

versation at Mr. Carr's took place before I had ever seen
Ravalette at all to speak with him. And now, if you please,
we will continue the train of events in-progress before I made
this digression.
"You will remember that, after making fruitless inquiries
for the two horsemen, and an equally fruitless search after
foot-prints on the soil near Belleville, that I took my way to-
ward Paris, slowly, on foot, musing deeply as I went along.
As I passed down the Rue Faubourg du Temple, the tolling
of a distant clock announced the hour of four. I remembered
gny engagement at the Baron's, but, as I had fully two hours
left in which to dress for the occasion, I determined to drop
in at D'Embrat's, in the Rue Michel le Compte, as I went
by, and hear whatever might have turned up in my absence.
" I reached the street, and was greatly surprised to find a
large and highly excited crowd of people before the gate,
and the more so, as I beheld the surplices of at least a dozen
priests of the Order St. Lazare, elbowing their way, and
trying to pass both in and out of the house.
"With heart palpitating with vague and dread uneasiness, I
approached an intelligent-looking man, and, assuming a care-
lessness by no means felt, asked him the cause and reason of
the gathering.
"'Lord bless you, sir!l' he said. 'Do you not know that
the devil and five of his imps have just been on a visit to that
house, and carried off three or four of the inmates through
the roof in a flame of blue fire?  If you don't know it, I
assure you it is a fact!I'

"I saw in this answer the legitimate effect of superstition,
and that the man's cloth belied his intelligence ; I, there-
fore, drew out a sheet of paper and a pencil, and began to
flourish them in the eyes of the crowd for the purpose of
attracting its attention.
" My ruse succeeded ; the people set me down as a reporter
of the press, and instantly gave way right and left ; so that
I had but little difficulty in gaining an entrance to the build-
ing.  Once there, I soon learned that the poor D'Emprat
had relapsed into the swoon occasioned by his first fright, and
had passed thence into the most frightful convulsions, ex-
claiming all the while, as the thick foam rolled from his
bloodless lips, 'Oh, the devil ! the devil has come for my
soul, because I killed Baptiste Lemoine thirty-seven years ago?
Mon Dieu ! Mon Dieu ! They will drag me to hell! Ah, God!'
" His wife had exerted all her influence and power to stifle
these dangerous cries, but without avail. His cries still in-
creased in fury, until at last the police had forced an entrance
into the house, and were speedily followed by a score of
priests, who, hearing that the devil was in Paris, in proper
person, were very anxious to try the effect of a little shower-
bath of holy water, as well as to get a sight of their arch
enemy, whom, doubtless, the vast majority-of them regarded
secretly as nothing more than a man-or, rather, devil-of
straw.
" The news spread like wild-fire that the devil had ap-
peared, and to the questions asked by priest and bailiff of the
porter, he confirmed the rumor, and told, as best he could,

184

185

I
i
r .
i
H
3
G
x
s
e
4
K
a
e
1

wit
t nt
?'j.yl
lit,


186

41I

RAVALETTE.

the incidents of the afternoon. His story did not rest here,
however, but, taking two of the officers aside, he told them
something which caused them to start back in the wild-
est horror, and cross themselves most devoutly. The re-
sult of the interview was, that the officers cautioned the porter
from uttering one word of what he had just told them to any
person else. After this, they all again entered the room
where D'Emprat was still struggling in all the terrors of
delirium, still accusing himself of a long-committed homicide,
still calling on God and the priests to save him from the
clutches .of -the devil, whom  e averred he saw beside him
armed with fork and trident, ready to drag his unfortunate
soul to perdition and the damned. During all this fearful
scene, Madame D'Emprat was doing all she could to quiet
her husband, but without avail. The man went on harder
than before. The ghosts of evil deeds were there, and aveng-
ing angels lashed his soul to frenzy.
"'Be still,' she cried, 'for Jesus' sake, be still ! They will
carry you to Bicetre, and from there to le Boreau, and you
will die au coupe -tite 1*  Oh, be still.! or, if you must talk,
say something else than that !'
" Every word uttered by the woman and the man was
quietly written down, unobserved, by one of the officers, who
used my pencil and paper, and the back of his comrade as a
desk.
"What strange, mysterious power was it that caused me
I     '* On the guillotine.

MURDER WILL OUT. .

i87

mechanically to purchase a pencil and paper on my way from
Belleville down to Michel le Compte ?
"God's ways are mysterious, altogether past finding out ;
and I inwardly praised him as the mighty fact became ap-
parent, that the people of the house were not in league, as I
had conjectured might be the case, with Iavalette; and that
the mysterious agent of Divine Retribution was not of an in-
fernal nature, be it or he whatever else. A. load was lifted
off my heart-too soon, alas ! to be let down heavier than
before.
"'You did not :kill him, D'Emprat !. So.don't say you did
any more!1' exclaimed the woman in the accents of despair.
" ''Tis a lie ! I did!1' yelled the unfortunate man. -'I
-killed him with the hatchet in the cellar, and buried him.under
the grey horse's stall in the stable 1'
" ' My God.! we :are ruined!1' screamed the now frantic
woman. 'I always suspected that you killed my brother,
-but never -believed it until now. And, yet, I do not even now
,believe it ; for'
" 'I can prove it ; for I well remember a ,bloody hatchet,
and that master never would let me clean the stable of the
grey horse ; and, that I have watched him dig.gold from the
ground there, and heard him accuse himself in his sleep !' said
the concierge, coming forward.
"'Then, D'Emprat, and you, madame, I arrest in the
name of the law ; and you, porter, as a witness. Officers,
do your duty--take the prisoners-clear the house 1' said
their chief.

',_
t
+
{,
y
.   ,

,


NO DECEPTION.             189

"Five minutes afterwards, the unfortunate people were
being led to prison, and I was on the way to my hotel to.
dress-even under such circumstances-for the soiree at the
Baron's, but in a frame of mind that little fitted me to be a
spectator of philosophical experiments. Yet my word was
pledged, and go I must, and go I did-six o'clock finding
me in the Baron's parlor.
"I am   perfectly sensible that, even in what I have
narrated, the credulity of many persons would be taxed
to the utmost. It is easy enough to believe that such
things as I have described occurred long ages ago, in
the green and halcyon days of Magic, but it. is difficult to
imagine such things as taking place in the broad light of this
nineteenth century. Millions, aye hundreds of millions, have
believed, do, and, in coming years,. perhaps ages, will believe
in the startling records of a magic similar to that I have de-
tailed, and which is described so briefly, yet so graphically,
in the Book of Exodus ; and yet these people will strenuously
insist that the day of such things-of such exhibitions of the
Upper Magic-has for ever passed away, totally unmindful
of the great fact, that, when the astonishing things there re-
corded were accomplished, there must of necessity have been
a law-a natural law-in accordance with, and by which,
they were done, and that no law of Nature has ever yet
been repealed ; consequently, they must exist to-day in as full
perfection and power as ever.
"What remains of the present affair to be told, may, with
what has already been related (and the truth of which may

be ascertained most readily by correspondence with the
parties named), be implicitly relied on as correct in all essen-
tial particulars ; and yet, the occurrences that took place on
that eventful night are of a kind so horrible, so utterly mon-
strous, that, at times, I almost believe that we all-twelve
healthful men, and six women-were laboring under some
strong delusion. I should still cling to this belief, with
the pertinacity of a miser to his golden god, the bigot to his
creed, or the drowning wretch to the narrow plank that pro.
mises a renewal of life's tenure, were it not that facts, appal-
ling in themselves, forever and utterly precede the possibility
that I-that we-were mistaken and deceived. What these
facts were, will be most clearly shown in the sequel."

I

188              RAVALErrr.

I A


CHAPTER V.           -
SEANCE AT THE BARONS--DIABLERIE EXTRAORDINAIRE.
" with'features horribler than Hell e'er traced
On its own brood; no Demon of the waste,
No church-yard ghoul, caught lingering in the light
Of the blest sun, e'er blasted human.sight
with lineaments so foul, so fierce as those
The Impostor now, in grinning mockery shows."
" WHEN I reached the house I found the company above
enumerated seated in the parlor, and all most anxiously
awaiting the appearance of the individual who was to afford
us entertainment, and, if possible, some instruction    also.
For awhile it appeared that we were doomed to be disap-
pointed. The expected party had promised to attend at
thirty minutes to-eight, and it was nearly thattime already,
and still there were no signs of his coming ; but, as St.
Eustache tolled out the half hour, a ring at the door-bell
announced his arrival.
"The man was a tall and comely personage, apparently of
Irish extraction, and had nothing whatever about him at all
remarkable ; indeed, he was a very so-soish sort of individual,
who at first refused his name to everybody, because, to quote
his own words: 'If I remain incog. I shall not be lionized,
which in other terms means " bored," and pestered by per-
sons seeking to gratify a morbid and impertinent curiosity--
190

I

MAI VATTERALE, THE MAGICIAN.

191

people who look for full-grown -miracles, and expect to find
them, instead of studying arts and sciences, and therewith
increasing their knowledge and enriching their experience by
a more intimate acquaintance with philosophic truths, and
the recondite mysteries of mighty Nature.'
"The gentleman was very polished and polite, entering
freely into conversation, and-- seemed  altogether so well
pleased with his audience that he threw off all reserve,
laughed, joked, made puns, played upon words, and kept us
in good spirits for half an hour, at the end of which time he
gave us his name as a profound secret, to go no further.
That name was a singular one. It was Mai Vatterale-a
very curious name ! He soon proposed an adjournment to
the back parlor, and after reaching it he proceeded to
arrange the chairs, six in a line, in the form of a triangle ;
after doing this, Monsieur Vatterale signified to the Baron
that his part of the preliminaries was completed, whereupon
that gentleman, turning to his guests, said: 'I Was informed
on the day that the present meeting was arranged with Mon-
sieur, that in all cases it was- absolutely necessary that the
physical systems of all who assist at, or witness his expeti-
ments, should be duly fortified with food, for what particular
reason I cannot imagine, nor is it necessary that I should
inquire, seeing that it is his rule, of which all present were
duly notified, so that all might forego their usual repasts at
their own homes, and partake of a little souper with me, pre=
vious to commencing our experiments, and'---
"' Jermettez moi, s'il vous plait,' said Vatterale, courteously.


192                   RAVALETTE.
'Si cela vows est agriable'-4t is my custom, and is for the pur-
pose of preventing any ill effects that might result from a shock
of the nerves, which, believe me, you will be apt to experience
before we have done.' Of course such an explanation, indi-
cating, as it certainly did, no small degree of preventive so-
licitude on the part of the illustrious foreigner, was perfectly
satisfactory, and was accepted in a proper spirit by the
whole company.
"'This way, ladies ; this way, gentlemen, follow me,' said
the Baron, gaily giving his arm to his wife, and leading the
way to his splendid salle a manger.
" The worthy noble had called it un petit super, but the
magnificent spread before us rendered it a somewhat difficult
task to imagine what would constitute a grand supper in his
estimation. To describe it is no part of the task I am en-
gaged on ; and, therefore, I shall merely observe that it was
a most recherche affair. The furniture of the table, as well
as the viands themselves, was of the most sumptuous descrip-
tion, everything on it being of the richest and heaviest gold
and silver plate-heir-looms of the old Noblesse, from whom
the Baron was descended.
"Dinner or supper once over, we all left the table, and once
more adjourned to the back parlor, and took seats in the
chairs arranged in a triangle, the ladies, six in number, occu-
pying those which formed the western arm thereof. When we
all were properly and comfortably seated, there was quite a
la e vacant space before us, into which Vatterale placed
two chairs facing each other, and also two foot-stools

0

LOOKING THROUGH TWO FLOORS.     19i3

4
i
d
.?
0

covered with damask plush-velvet close together in the
other angle. He then proceeded to lock all the doors lead-
ing into the apartment, tied all the keys together with a
piece of scarlet ribbon, and then hung them to one of the
glass prisms pendent from a large gas chandelier directly
over the centre of what I may call, not inappropriately, our
circle. The jets of this chandelier, seven in number, were all
in full play under a strong head of gas, and the room in all
parts was quite as light as if the sun shone into the windows,
two of which occupied the northern end of the, parlor, both
being very richly curtained, and both quite shut. I repeat,
lest trickery in what followed should be suspected by your-
self, that the seven jets of gas were brightly burning, and
continued so all the evening, except when extinguished, with-
out the aid of kumdai hands; and as they were put out, so
also were they relighted more than once.
"cHaving disposed of the bunch of keys, Vatterale went
to both windows, exatmed them closely, fastened them
down securely---that is to say, the lower sashes ; for he let
down one of the upper ones, and threw the eastern external
blinds wide open, and fastened them  so. Of course, the
master of cerenionies had never been in that dwelling before,
and of course could not have obtained information respecting
it by the usual methods of visit and inquiry, yet, turning to
the BarOn, he requested hin to ring for the servant, and
through the closed door bid him remove an ornamental iron
sofa from the chamber immediately above our heads, into the
dark bed-room on the third floor, as its presence where it
9


194               RAVALETTE.

then stood would materially affect the experiments to be
made
"This request, made under such circumstances, surprised
us all, but particularly the Baron, who stared at the man
who made it, as if he regarded him as one risen from the
dead ; and it was, forsooth, rather a startling circumstance,
to say the least. He admitted that there was such a room,
and such a dark chamber, au troisieme. Yet how the man
knew it, was very strange, considering that he had been in
,    the house but a short time, and had not left us for a mo-
ment, nor spoken a single word to any of the servants, save
on entering, to inquire if this was the Baron's residence.
"Scarcely had we recovered from the surprise natural on
such an occasion, than we were again made sensible that we
were dealing with an extraordinary man, for, turning to me,
he begged the loan of a small metallic coin which I had re-
ceived as a present from Mr. Carr less than ten minutes before
Vatterale entered the house, and which coin was remarkably
curious and valuable on account of its high antiquity, and it
was one of the only two known to be in existence, and had
been begged for me by Mr. Carr, from his friend Blaise de
Jong6, the celebrated Eastern traveller, and had only been
sent in a note to Mr. Carr, by that eminent savant, the night
;          previous. Having received the coin, Vatterale placed it in
his pocket, and then taking out a set of ivory tablets, wrote
a request thereon, and handed it to Madame la Marquise de
la, Fronde, an elderly lady, foster sister to the Baron. The
request was altogether so singular and so novel, that the old

lady immediately read it aloud : ' Will Madame la Marquise
have the goodness to retire to the alcove and remove from between
her feet and stockings the metallic plates, and, separating the
zinc from the copper ones, place each metal plate with its
own kind, and restore them to her feet outside the hose!' The
lady almost fainted with astonishment, for she averred that
no mortalknew that she wore such plates, but that she had
for ten years, and found them, by reason of the electric cur-
rents they elaborated and imparted to her system, highly
beneficial to her health. She retired as requested, and, re-
turning in a minute, convinced us of the marvellous seeing
faculty of the mysterious Mai, by exhibiting the plates, which
were precisely as he had described. She again retired, and,
shortly returning, resumed her seat. These preliminaries being
concluded, Vatterale brought into the open space before us a
small portmanteau, which he carried in his hand when he en-
tered the mansion. From this he now took a coil of wire-in-
deed, three small coils tied together-also a saucer of large
dimensions of stone China, or thick, very thick porcelain, a
large vial containing a colorless liquid, a box of paste or
gum, two large, and entirely empty, thin bottles-so thin
that we all looked through them at the light, as he handed
them to us for that purpose. They were as clear as the best
dow glass, as thin and as brittle, apparently, as the finest
crystal. From the same receptacle he also took what
looked like three rolls of paper, one very large when un-
folded, the others quite small indeed. . The larger bundle he
unrolled and spread upon the floor, on the space between the

THE PREP.A.RATION.        195


196              RAVALETTW.

chairs and fautetils. It was aboat three teet in diameter,
and was painted in all sorts of colors, and figures entirely
nondescript. The centre of this article was immediately that
of the triangle, 'The Symbolical figure of the Universe, or
Oneness,' as he called it, and of course was directly beneath the
large chandelier. This done, he placed the saucer right upon
the centre of the symbolical chart, if I may so term it. Then,
unfastening the coils of wire, he laid one along the laps of
the gentlemen on one side, and fastened it by means of a link
and hook to two others, which passed in front of the other two
sections of the human trine. The wire held by the ladies (for
we all were directed to grasp the wire before us with one hand,
and the hand of the next neighbor with the other) was common
iron, wound with silver foil ; the one before myself was steel,
wound with gold wire ; and the other was of solid gold,
wound, as were the others, at intervals, with floss silk. The
ladies grasped with the left hand, and joined their right, while
with the gentlemen this order was reversed. The next pro-
ceeding on the part of Mai, was to place half of the gum
into the saucer ; upon this he emptied the vial of colorless
liquid, and set fire thereto. It burned with a clear and steady
bluish flame. The gum was gradually consumed, and a pecu-
liar and most delightful fragrance floated through the r .
"During the burning process, the operator sat upon the
stool, and gazed fixedly and intently upon, or rather toward,
the open sash, while the rest of us were chatting merrily, and
wondering what would be the result of all these weird and
curious preparations.

r
.
a
s
i
)Y
1SV
Z

"I said the rest of us were merrily chatting, but. must
qualify that observation by excluding from this employment
one person, and that person was-myself, for I found its at.
terly iinpossible to mingle in the conversation with that aban-
don and uireserve which characterized the others. It was
altogether beyond my power to forget the tremendous expe
riences of that very day, which I had undergone. A weight
was on my spirit that could not be lifted off. The 'Ghost
of Ravalette' seemed to be invisibly hovering over me, and.
although unseen, his presence seemed to be palpably felt by
me. The events at Belleville constantly obtruded themselves
before the eye of the mind ; the affair at the gardener's, the
singular result of his impromptu wager, the woman at the
Barriere, and, above all, the frightful occurrences at the Rue
Michel le Compte, with its sure-absolutely sure-termina-
tion on the Guillotine-the miserable and ignominious death
of D'Emprat, and the unearthly means whereby his deed of
crime-the crime a horrible murder, committed thirty-seven
years before-the unearthly and mysterious means, I repeat,
by which his guilt was brought to light--this, all this, sq
oppressed me that I could not take a present interest in what
wasrranspiring about me. Indeed, I cared little for either
or his tricks-which, from observing the method of bia
preparations, I had already not only despised, but put down
to the score of legerdemain-clever and surprising, but still
nothing more than legerdemain.
"How rudely this ,conceit was broken up, how horribly I
was convinced of my mistaken. estimate of the man before us,

GLOOMY TOUR.-

11


198               RAVALETTE.

will very soon be seen. As for his skill in detecting the
coin, the* sofa, and the plates, I had already secretly ac-
counted. I remembered Caspar Hauser, and several other
ensitives, who could detect the presence of metals by what
may be called 'magnetic sense.' His description of the
dark bed-room au troisieme, was very simple, for nearly all
old houses have such chambers on that floor ; this was an
old house ; Vatterale saw it, and made what preliminary
capital he could from his acuteness. With the present weight
of experience ; with the memory of the deeds of the mystical
Ravalette still fresh in mind, of course I could not be very
highly interested in such displays of minor magic as I felt
convinced were very shortly to be made by the conjuring
gentleman before us.
" Suddenly the man whose pretensions I had just been in-
wardly criticising, partially raised himself from the stool,
threw back his head until his long, wavy locks fell upon his
shoulders, and muttered between his teeth, as if the word-
birth was extremely painful, ' HE IS COMING I' and we noticed
that his face, naturally of a dingy yellow, suddenly became
of an ashen-hued paleness, and his eyes darted forth lumi-
nous sparks that were plainly visible even amid the glair of
that brilliantly-lighted apartment ; and at the same instipt
he placed his right hand over the region of his heart-that
is to say, over that part where nine-and-ninety of every hun-
dred suppose the heart to be, namely, under the left breast.
He did this as if to repress a rising pang, then turning to his
audience, he exclaimed---' Look sharp ! Be firm ! be fear-

x.
X
f
xpi
v j1
1

c THE SAUCER ON THE FLOOR."     199

less ! be attentive ! but if you would avoid danger, a name-
less, but great danger, stir not, move not from your seats.
Grasp the cord, retain each other's hands, make what re-
marks-you may deem proper, but stir not an inch-a single
inch from your seats, happen what may1 I am going to sur-
prise you.'
"We all assented verbally, and not a few of the company
began even to joke him on his sorcery and magic, when we
all started from our seats, but were instantly motioned back
by an anxious frown and a commanding, magisterial wave of
his right hand. The simultaneous movement on our part,
was caused by a yell, for such it was, that proceeded, not,
as might be anticipated, from a female, but from a Mr. The-
odore Dwight, an American gentleman, having from Phila-
delphia-and at the present time still dwelling there.
" This person, as all who know him will certify, is no weak,
puling, nerveless man, for a man more the opposite of all this
could scarce be found in a month's search.
"The sound which came from his lips was a shriek of ter-
ror, horror, and agony combined, as might well be fancied to
come from the throats of the damned souls of the nether hell.
It was, indeed, a paroxysm of deadly fright. In an instant
all eyes were turned toward him. He was paler than a
corpse, the very image of Death itself ; his eyes protruded
from their sockets, and he trembled as if he stood before the
final bar ; his lips refused to tell the cause of his distress, but
his gaze was intently fixed, with an immovable expression of
horror, upon the saucer on the floor. Instinctively our eyes


RAVALETrE.

WHAT WE    TEY $             201

followed the same direction, except Vatterale's, who still was,
looking toward the open sash. With this exception, I re-
peat, we all looked toward the floor, when, great God ! what
a sight was there! The saucer was still there, but the two
small rolls of paper were. gone ! Tey had disappeared, but
in their stead we distinctly saw-for, recollect, there were
seven full jets of gas in full blaze right over our heads-we
saw, I reiterate, with our, eyes-physical, bodily eyes--three
horrible beings, somewhat resembling overgrown scorpions--
only, that instead of claws, they had-hands and arms !
for all the world like those of a newly-born negro child !
These detestable things, for I dare not blaspheme the Great
Etprnal by calling them creatures, were about fiye inches
broad on the back, by some eighteen in length. Their color
was a deep crimson, mottled with purple, green, and yellow
stripes and spots, and they were completely covered with
scales, like thse" of an armadillo. Conceive, if you can, of a
tarantula or spider so large, and which-each one of them-
uoved about on the very tips of twelve legs, sixteen or
eighteen inches long, and all the while whirling and twirling its
h 1s and arms (two of each), eighteen, inches long and three-
fourths as large as its body, and you will form a tolerable
picture of the repulsive, unsightly, hideous monstrosities
crawling, or rather 'stilting,' round that saucer 9nf the floor.
"jF1ach one of these loathsome things had four large, pro
trading eyes, closely resembling those of the monster Frog
of India ; but these eyes, unlike the frog's, were. not leaden-
hued; i stead of this being the, case, I think no spark of fire

ever shone brighter--in fact, they. fairly gleamed;with what
I can indicate by no other term than infernal, redness.; for
it seemed that at every flash they emitted. the concentrated
venom of a gorgon ; and beneath the fearful spell we-all, sat
perfectly immovable with fear.
- Wist our agony would have been had; the accursed
things ventured to ;move toward us, I dare not even imagine,
but they still and ever kept in the one track, moving with or-
derly march around that saucer on the floor. We felt and
knew that they were living,, actual realities, a. genuine and
horrid trinity of fa4s, apd not a mere optical illusion, or the
result of a plpy upon our fancies, mesmerie or otherwise.
This opinion was confirmed by the most positive and; blasting.
testimony, for, as they solemnly, demoniacally marched about
the, centre of that symbolic. chart, they left a trailing streak
of greenish-deed, hard, greenish ichor or pus, behind them
at each;revolution, and; .a few drops of this fell upon the Ba-
ron's carpet. Sqme months afterward, he and I exchanged
letters on the events of that night, and he assured me that
not a single chemical amongst the hundreds applied for the
purpose had beg   of the least effect toward removing the
stauh,, 'The carpet.has been discharged of its colors and re-
dyed, yet no dye w41.cover those spots!l' This was not all,
for on one of their rounds they nearly qutted the chart, and
the ;xonstruck at them with hisfootwhereupon:one of
them spirted forth a fetid iqid, whieh felt upon; his boot,
ay4,ade a mark there, as if the leather had been seared,
wth hot irgu I
9*


202

RAVALETTE.

"'Talk not to me of legerdemain after this!, Speak not
to me of optical illusion, or deceptive appearances, in the face
of such facts as these, for here are .marks,' wrote the Baron
to me, 'here are palpable evidences that defy contradiction.
They were made on that night, and there they yet remain,
and, albeit I cry, " Out, damned spots !" they will not, but
persist in remaining absolute confirmations of vivid, strange,
incontrovertible fads!'r
"' But why did you not get up, under such circumstances,
all of you, and escape from the room ?' is a very natural and
perhaps not unreasonable question, that may without impro-
priety be asked just here, and I reply : For several reasons ;
among which a few shall be named. First, the doors were
all securely locked, and although we had seen Mai mount a
chair, and hang the keys to one of the glass pendants, yet
upon looking there, we found that they, as well as the two
rolls of paper, had disappeared. Secondly, the windows were
fastened own, besides being many feet from the ground-at
least fift n-and to leap that distance was altogether out
9f the question, even had we thought of it, which we did not.
Thirdly, the earnest and solemn warning given by Vatterale
before anything took place ; his assurance that if we obeyed
his injunctions not to stir-that, although we might be
frightened, yet no harm could or would- befall us-acted,
amidst all our terror, as a sort of stopper upon any precipi'
tate movement, after the first shock was over.
"We could not quit the room provided even all the doors
had been flung wide open. Hast never heard tell of the fas-

fI
If

THE FASCINATION OF DANGER.

203

ciiatiom of Danger? If so, then know that it was upon us
in all its terrible force and power. We were bound, chained,
rooted, riveted to the spot, by a potentiality never to be
questioned, never to be despised, for its might, when once it
fastens upon its victim,4is merciless, griping, stern and unre-
lenting. We felt that to stir, was to incur the hazard of an
unknown, unguessed-at danger.   ALL were fascinated by
terror ; to move was to add ten-fold to its power ! It was
a feeling akin to that experienced by the native of Ind, who
roused from his mid-day slumber, wakes to feel the clammy
folds of the cobra-capello, the dreadful hooded serpent of his
clime, slowly writhing and winding beneath his garments
about his naked flesh ; and who realizes, as his heart stops
beating and his blood runs icily with agony, and as the great
big beaded drops of cold sweat ooze out from every pore,
that to stir, to breathe, to even quiver under the pressure of
his mortal fear, is certain, irrevocable, positive death-
knowing as he does, that nor man nor beast hath ever yet
lived a single hour after the fangs of the hooded snake have
once opened a passage for the entrance of the King of
Terrors!
" And such was the pall that rested upon the eighteen
persons in that room, as the detestable trinity moved slowly
around that saucer on the floor ; their eyes-their great,
.horny, bulging eyes-all the while scintillating and flashing
with the very essence of intense malignity-malignity as of a
devil ! The female portion of the company I fear may never
recover from the shock that night received. They did not

;   '
~


204

RAVALETTE.

faint, or scream, or swoon, as perhaps it might have been
suspected they would under such diabolic circumstances,
simply, however, for the reason that the tension of soul and
nerve was altogether too severe and great to permit, even for
an instant, the reaction which is an absolute prerequisite to
relief by or through the methods indicated.
"Probably the length of time that elapsed from    the
shriek of our comrade, till the final disappearance of the
three monsters, did not exceed three minutes, yet in that
brief space we had undergone years of terror.
" Truly, the real lapse of time is not to be reckoned by
the beats of the clock, but only by sensations and heart-
throbs. Mai, at the termination of the time specified, rose
from his stool, took a small basket from his portmanteau, and
then fearlessly seizing the things, one at a time, he carefully
doubled up their legs under them, and placed them in it.
Then taking the two crystal bottles already alluded to, he
placed them. lengthwise on the chart, with their necks and
apertures facing. each other, after which he resumed his seat
upon: the. foot-stool, addressing no word or sign to the specta-
tors of his movements. And now it began to grow dark i
The jets of gas appeared to burn less clear and fully, just as
if{ some one was slowly turning the cocks which let it on,
with a gradual movement. In a little while the room was
darkened, .though not ,exactly dark, for there was still a dim.
half light-a sort of semi-blue, semi-dull red, misty radi,
ance,.just sufficient to enable us to distinguish objects vaguely,,
indistinct and= dimly.

I

WHERE DID THIY, GO To?

205

I
S
I

"'Stir. not ! fear not!l' said the thick, husky. voice of
Yatterale ; and before we could reply, a scene commenced,
such as it hath seldom fallen to man's lot to witness.
"'Allow me to explain a modern mystery,' said Vatterale,
'but first let me remove your fears. Look 1'
"-Scarcely had he spoken these words, than the room
was suddenly illumiinated, as if the very air was aglow
with the most brilliant light, and we saw the two bottles
quite plainly. As we gazed upon these, there came from one
the appearance of an enormous serpent, which proceeded to
coil itself up, until its bulk thrice exceeded that of both the
bottles. Then there came still another, and another, until no
less than twelve lay there, coiled up in a loathsome pile ;
but as the last one, emerged from one bottle, the first one
entered the other, until all had.disappeared as.they had come.
"'I will now show you that you.cannot always trust your
own senses,' said Vatterale, 'nor account for what you. see;'
and he straightway emptied the basket, and broke the bot-
tIes. All three were empty I Not a sign of snake or scor-
pion was there!
"r' Again, I will show you a curious .thing, You will
please call a servant, seat her, on one of those chairs and bid
her on a wager hold. a skein of sik while it is being wounded
merely to keep her attention-that is all. But,' and be
spoke veryearnestly, '.whatever you see .or hear, L beg you
will not utter a single word.'
" This was assented to ; a skein of silk was.ordered, but
not till, the gaslight had displaced the other.


WHAT MAKES THE RAPPINGSI       207

"'It will be. just seventeen minutes before the girl is
ready,' said Mai; 'and while waiting, I will demonstrate a
fallacy. The creatures you have beheld to night are real,
but ephemeral-they are Will-creations, and perish when the
power ceases to act which called them into being. As proof
of what I say,. Behold '
"From the floor in the eastern corner. of the room there
straightway begun to arise a light mist, which increased in
bulk until a ball of vapor, three feet in diameter, floated in
the air. Thus it remained for a minute ; and then, right be-
fore our eyes, began to condense and change its shape, until.
at the end of four minutes, it had assumed a human sem-
blance-but, Heavens ! what a caricature !
" At first it was a mere vapory outline, but it rapidly con-
densed and consolidated, until what looked like a hideous,
half-naked, bow-legged, splay-footed monster stood before
us. Its height was less than three feet ; its chest and body
were nearly that in width; its legs were not over eight inches
long ; its arms were longer than its entire body ; its head
was gigantic ; and it had no neck whatever, while from its
horrible head there hung to the very ground the appearance
of a tangled mass of wire-like worms. Its mouth was a fear-
ful-looking red gash, extending to where ears should have
been, but were not. Eyes, nose, cheeks, chin, lips or fore-
head, there were none whatever. Do not imagine that this
creature was merely an appearance ; it was not, for although
born of vapor, in five minutes it became solid as iron, demon-
strating the fact by stalking heavily across the floor right

into the centre of the open space between us-the chains be-
ing dropped as it approached-where it stood, slowly sway-
ing to and fro, as if its heart was heavy.
"' Show your quality,' said Mai to the thing. ' I will,' it
hissed, and straightway proceeding toward a table, it stood
by it a few minutes, and it became apparent that it was
charging the wood with something from itself, for soon the
table began to turn, to -tip, to move, to rise and float in the
air, precisely as is done in spiritual circles.
"'Now, ladies and gentlemen, you will please act just as
if that before you was a human spirit, invisible to you, and
desirous of imparting information. I dare say you will be
surprised at the results. You see already that it is a capital
table-mover, and I beg you to test its mental and physical
powers also-for I assure you there is nothing to fear, now
that I give you leave to break the silence-which was quite
essential in the first part of the curious experiment.'
" Thus assured, several of us asked the thing to show us
what it could do. Whereupon it made motions as if it wanted
to write. Paper and pencil being placed upon the table, it
seized the pencil with its long claw-like fingers, and its hand
flew over the page like lightning, and in ten seconds it fin-
ished, and striking the table three heavy blows with its fist,
signified that it had finished ; whereupon Mr. D-- reached
for the sheet, and read therefrom one of the most tender mes-
sages conceivable, from a dead mother to a living son.- Even
the hand writing was a perfect fac-simile of his mother's ;
the name-Lucy-was correct, and certain :dear and peculiar

206-                  1        RAVArErrIM.


How SPIRITUAL " ,USIO IS MADE.

pbrases, used by her when alive, were given with minute pre,
cision and fidelity ; As, for instance, 'sweet one, mine,' in-,
stead of 'my sweet ,re.' Mr. D-- turned pale.     'Is it
possible I have been so imposed upon-so horribly deceived ?'
said he, for. he was a .devout follower of the modern .thau-
maturgy.
"Several further tests, equally successful and decisive,
were then given by this ghostly thing, both by writing, tip-
ping, rapping, and the production of beautiful phantom hands,
faces,:flowers, and other objects, many of which were not only
singular but .magnificent. Probablythousands of persons have.
seen the curious pencil drawings, executed by 'mediums,' and
which, are said to be portraits of.' Spiritualif.owers'-for .most
certainly they resemble nothing growing on this earth. Well,.
in less than.five minutes the horrible thing there atthe:table,,
the:eyeless monster, executed thirteen such--and they would
pass current as splendid specimensof ' Spirit art.:
" Now,' said, Vatterale, 'for something else.' And then
addressing the thing, he- said: 'r You.. will- now render your-
self viewless, and show what you can do. And first let, us have.
some music.', Thenturning to the company, he stid: 'Real
spirits love the light, but such as that invariably act most
efficiently in the.dark-for then they have the.advantage: of
the elements.-condensed upon their forms-a t semi-material in-.
vestiture-rand: can come indirect contact. with materialsub,
stan es, which, in the case of real .spirits, is exceedingly
difficult of accomplishment'
"During:this speech,. onr attention was diverted -from the

.
-a
R
T;
{.
4
}y
f
F
g
i
k
3
r
i
+
t

incarnated to the incarnator-for it must not be forgotten
that the entire phenomena exhibited by this wondrous per-
sonage, were the creatures of his conscious will, brought into
being and again cast out by a thought, and accord ing to a
known and transferable form. True, there were others in
whom this creative faculty existed, but then such persons
either exercised the power involuntarily through the mechan-
ical processes of mind and will, or else they are but- the
proxies of the Larva. When he ceased speaking the m'n-
ster was gone from our sight, but not from our hearing, for
Mai gently waved his hand, and as he did so there came to
us the softest, gentlest, sweetest, and the most soul-stirring
strains of music that ever fell on human hearing. Above,
below, around, now here, now there, close at hand, and then
afar off, it sounded ; and the only comparison I, can make is,
that it sounded like a solemn requiem chaunted by angels
over the perished form of what was once a god-the tones
were so pathetic, so solemn, so supremely sorrow-freighted
--reminding one of the plaintive
"'Huhm, meleagar malooshe,
Huhm meleagar, ma-looshe,'
only that it was ten-fold more profound, and stirred. depths
the other could ,never reach.
" This strange music was a perfect corroboration of the
theory advanced by the Italian Count at, the seance before
Napoleon, already mentioned ; for, ao wing that the being
who nade it wass ta real and independent existence, it was

'r

209


I1

)

210

RAVALETTE.

impossible for such conceptions to exist in it, for the reason
that none but a mighty soul could create them, and the
thing itself was exceedingly, revoltingly low in the scale of
organization. But, on the other hand, if the thing were the
creature of Mai's will, it was conceivable that it vocally ex-
pressed his unuttered thought, itself totally unconscious of
either the music or its meaning.
"It ceased. It still remained invisible, and Mai proposed
that Count de M      should hold one -end of an accordion,
while the thing invisibly held and played upon the other.
This was assented to, and the instrument, bottom up, was held
at arm's length, directly beneath the light. It was played on,
in masterly style, while in that position. It, as well as a
guitar, harp and piano, were played on when no one was near
them, and nothing to be seen ; and then, at the command
of the arch-magician, the whole performance was repeated by
the terrific thing in its perfectly visible form.
"Presently, a knock at the door told us that the servant
sent for had arrived, with the silk in her hand. She was ad-
mitted ; the thing retired from view.
"'Marie,' said the Baron, 'a wager is laid that one of
these gentlemen cannot unwind a skein of silk which you are
to hold, both of you being blindfolded. I wager that it can
be done. If I win, you shall have three days to visit your
family, besides something to carry to the old people and the-
little ones. Now, you must not laugh or speak while the silk
is being wound ; if you do I lose. Will you try?'
" 'Certainly,' replied the girl ; 'and you shall see that I

A ' MEDIUM' SCENA!

211

will ot laugh. Oh, papa, marnan, I shall have three days !
Mon Dieu! but it is a fine thing !' And, taking the. seat
offer d, she suffered the silk to be placed across her wrists,
and e blindfolded by the Baroness.
"This having been done, Mr. D      , at a sign from
Vatterale, took the end of the cord, and began slowly to un-
wind it.
"'And now begin,' said the latter, speaking toward where
the thing had disappeared. The command was heard. It
came forth, touched the girl's hand, and instantly she was
thrown into a profound trance, whence another touch revived
her, but not to wakeful consciousness. Instead of this, she
rose, threw down the silk, approached several musical instru-
ments in succession, and played upon them most exquisitely.
The thing touched her head, and she made love in the most
tender terms to three gentlemen in succession, 'declaring to
each in turn that he was her 'eternal affinity,' and had been
so from the foundation of the world.
" Again it touched her ; and, suddenly changing her man-
ner, she declaimed in lofty strain. Now she was Charlotte
Corday, then Maximillian the Incorruptible ; again, she was
the Maid of Orleans, and then a simple Indian maiden. Now
she was Malibran; and sung divinely ; anon, she was a strong-
minded woman, and talked about the Divine creative work of
woman ;-about love--that man had made it special when it
should be general, and, therefore, free. She raved about the
Bible, called it excellent soft bark ; called the Saviour the
Nazarene ; spoke of the Deity as the Great Positive Mind ;

I
"  12


A RECOGNITION.          213

RA.VALETTE.

declared she was His private secretary ; prated about Starnos
and 'Cor, Summer Lands, Gupturion, Mornia, divorces, and
how to get them ; progress and humbug, milky ways, and the
people of Jupiter, with a hundred other follies, but which she,
unlike her exemplars,. for the time believed. The scene con-
tinued for at least two hours, at the end of which time Mai
dismissed the thing, and restored the girl, who was totally ob-,
livious of all that had occurred. She received sundry pieces
of gold from those present, and left the room, doubtless desir-
ing to unwind more silk at the same rate.
"' I will now show you something equally curious,' said
Mai, 'and, perhaps, quite as interesting as anything you have
yet beheld. Look I
"We did so. Simultaneously, and from all parts of the room,
there now arose, as from the floor, innumerable minute globules
of various-colored fire-red, green, blue, purple, scarlet, gold,
silver, crimson, white and violet-leaping, flashing, dancing
and frisking about, as if endowed with sensuous, joyous gaiety.
Apparently, there were thousands of them, all moving in dis-
order through the air, now ,lighting on the picture-frames
suspended from the wall, now collecting in great masses in
front of the splendid mirrors, and, anon, gliding along the
floor, under our seats, through our feet, over the chairs, and
about the carpet, as if in the very watonness of sport, their
every motion being accompanied by a hissing sound, in kind,
though not in volume, like that emitted by au ascending
rocket as it rushes through the air. Presently, they formed
themselves intocrowns, just such as I had seen cars before,

212

s.
3
a
i
P
3

in that same Paris, float over and crown Napoleon at the
behest of an Italian Count. In an instant I associated the
two circumstances, and, turning to the magician, was about
to speak, when, as if divining my purpose, he nodded to me,
and said aloud-
"' I told you we should meet again ! Be patient--this
night must pass. Accept the present I left for you at your
hotel, and do not forget that we shall meet again!' and he
became silent as before, while the company scarcely knew
what to make of this abrupt, and apparently meaningless
speech.
"I had solved one problem. Vatterale and the Count
were one and the same person ; but who and what were the
other two-Miakus and Ravalette ?
" The fiery crowns concluded the exhibition, and at a lae
hour the company separated, and each sought his pillow."


DESPONDENCY.

CHAPTER VI.
ARRIVAL OF THE EDITOR.
"Too excited to sleep, I threw myself upon the sofa, and
turned the strange series of events over in my mind. Two
things were absolutely certain, nay, three--1st, That neither
Ravalette, Vatterale, nor the Italian Count, were men as are
other men ; 2d, that not one of the company suspected this
fact ; and 3d, that myself was the object, sole and alone, of
these extraordinary visitations. Above and beyond all
these, it was plain that my destiny was rapidly approach-
ing a crisis, and that the Stranger (mentioned in the- le-
gend), as well as Dhoula Bel, were still influencing me for
purposes which I could not divine to their full extent.
I had already become a Rosicrucian, had passed through
five degrees, had visited the Orient, and was about to
go again, had learned many dark   and solemn mysteries,
been instructed in several degrees of magic, knew all about
the Elixir of life, the power of will, the art of reading others'
destinies, of constructing and using magic mirrors, and how
to discover mines of precious metal, and had deeply regretted
that the terrible oath whereby the true Rosicrucian binds
himself never to seek wealth for himself, and never to accept
riches as the price of the exercise of his power, prevented me
214

2'
II,  1

3
k,
n
f
c
t
4,
i

from availing myself of its advantages. I knew that on the
altar of knowledge I had sacrificed all the deeper interests of
my nature. I knew that my heart yearned for woman's love
-that she held one portion of my soul captive at times, but
never filled it-that there was a possibility of escaping what
I dreaded, could I meet and mingle with a certain soul in
whose body ran no drop of Adamic blood ; and I almost re-
solved to abandon all hope, perform the part required of me
by my tempters of Belleville, the Tuilleries, and Boston, when
suddenly I remembered the paper that Ravalette had placed
in my hand, as also the present left for me by Vatterale, but,
resolving to omit all care concerning them till morning, at
length I succeeded in falling into an uneasy slumber, from
which I awoke late on the following morning to find that you,
my dear friend [the Editor], had just arrived from Alexan--
dria, and had called upon me?

215


Jb
CHAPTER VII
THE GRAND SECRET?
IT now devolves upon the Editor of these pages to com-
plete the narrative of Beverly, his friend.
I had just reached Paris from Marseilles, where I had
arrived a few days before, by way of Malta, from Alexan-
dria. On reaching Paris it was my intention to rest but one
night there, and then pursue my way via Rouen, in Nor-
mandy, to Dieppe and England, and thence home to Ame-
rica. Like all other travellers, I desired to spend a week in
Paris, but business prevented, consequently I made prepara-
tions to leave the famous city on the day following my
arrival ; but I resigned myself to this necessity with all the
more fortitude, for the reason that by so doing I should be
able to retain the company of a very pleasant gentleman,
whose society I had enjoyed continually from Cairo, where
we first met, to Paris, and which I  eight, by making no
stop in the latter place, continue to enjoy all the way home,
as he intended to start just so soon as he rejoined his daugh-
ter, who, for about three years had been receiving her edu-
cation in Paris, and whom he was about to, conduct to his
home-a newly-purchased one in New York.
The history of Mr. Im Hokeis and his adventures, as
216

m HOKEIS.

related to me on our journey, are so well worth repeating
that I shallgive a short abstract, even at the risk of enlarging
this chapter.
" I was born," said he, "onethe banks of the Caspian Sea,
of the family of Hokeis-a sacred family, in whom was invested
the highest order of Priesthood, and on whom devolved the
care of the sacred fire, for we were Guebres, and the fire
must never be extinguished, nor had it been, so say our
records, for many thousand years, foi Religion with us is
quite a different thing from what it is among the men of
Islam, India, Rome, or the West. We pride ourselves upon
the purity of our faith, and its superiority to all that is pro-
fessed by the children of Adam, quite as much as we do our
Pedigree from Ish, the great founder of our race and a power-
ful pre-Adamite king and conqueror."
I cannot now afford time to repeat the arguments by which
Im Hokeis demonstrated the startling proposition that there
were other people living on earth besides those who claimed
Adam as their founder. All this may be found elsewhere.*
He said that he was destined from birth to be chief priest of
the Faith, and had married a woman of his tribe and rank,; at
the early age of seventeen. Near the time he was about being
ordained, war had broken out between the Guebres and; their
Persian tyrants. Himself and wife were captured,. taken. to
Herat, and there condemned to lose their -eyes, from which
*The argument proving the existence of the human race thousands of years
anterior to the date of Adam, may be found in "Pre-Adamite Man." By Grlia
Lee. New York. S. Tousey. 1868.
10

'.4

217


21v

RAVALETTE.

horrible fate they were rescued by a member of the British
Embassy, with whom they remained for nearly three years,
by which. time they had mastered the English language.
While in the service of the minister, Hokeis had the good
fortune to save his life, in consequence of which a friendship
sprung up between them so strong, that when the Embassy
returned to Britain the two Guebres went with it. Arrived
in London, Hokeis received an appointment as interpreter,
and soon acumulated means, after which he entered into a
direct trade with Persia, and ' although, during the nine
years in which he was engaged therein, heaven had not sent
him any children, yet it had blessed him with abounding
wealth,-
At length, in the thirteenth year of their married life,'
their prayer was answered, and it became evident that God
was about to send them a child. He did, and a beautiful girl
was born, but the eyes of her mother were closed in death at
the moment it first saw the..light.
One day the nurse, who was a relative of Hokeis' wife,
was wheeling the child around the walks of Hampstead Heath,
when they wandered within the precincts of a gipsy encamp-
ment, and the girl was persuaded to have her own and the
child's fortune told. The complexion and features of the
twain led to remarks on their nationality, and by skillful
maneuvering the gipsy woman ascertained that the couple
before her were Guebres by birth, and had been by religion.
The miummery over and the fee paid, the girl went home
with her charge. They were followed, and on that very

I

THE STOLEN CHILD?
night, while the nurse slept, the child was stolen., Search
was made for the gang of gipsies-the abduction having
been clearly traced to them, by reason of a note left behind
by the robber, stating that the child would be well cared for
-but in vain, for on the very next day the whole gang,
thirty in number, had sailed in a packet from t  4 ndon
Docks, for America.
Many years rolled by, when one day, as the disconsolate
father was walking in the garden of the same house whence
the child was stolen, he was accosted by an old beldame,
who asked him what he would pay in gold in return for in-
formation respecting his child. It is needless to narrate the
successive steps taken. Suffice it that within twenty-four
-     hours the father and the gipsy were on the ocean, going as
fast as steam would carry them toward the Western World.
-. . .The child, now a regal woman, was found, and father
and daughter lived with each other for a time in New York,
where a fine property had been bought ; for the old gentle-
man so liked the New World that he determined to settle
there for life, after his daughter had been properly cultured
in Europe, whither he soon took her, and then, after trans-
mitting the bulk of his fortune to America, went on a final
visit to his people in Persia, his friends and co-religionists in
the East. I had met with him as already stated, when on
his return from Egypt to France.
This brings us to the night of my' arrival in Paris. It
being impossible to join his child that night, Hokeis and

,I


I
3
3
t}
i
!3
{

RAVALETTE.

myself drove to a hotel in the Palaise Royale, and were at,
the -satisfactory end of a supper, when a person who was
totally unknown to either of us entered the salle a manger,
and, making a profound obeisance to us both, said: "$gute!
I come to tell you, Im Hokeis, that you will lot quit Paris
to-morrow. But at the hour of four you will take your
daughter to the house that is last but one. on the left ascend-
ing the Boulevart de Luxembourg. You will ask me no ques-
tions, but will obey. My authority I thus give. you," and he
whispered three words in the ear of Hokeis, that caused the
latter to start as if he hacd been shot. He had received te
secret countersign of the priests of fire!' Then turning to me,
he said, "You will go early in the morning to the Hotel
Fleury. There you will find Beverly, your friend, join him ;
go where he goes, and quit him not for an instant for the
next two days-his salvation depends upon it ! Now I go.
Forget not the words of the Stranger."
I was thunderstruck. Hokeis and I talked much that
night before we slept. What we spoke of is easily to be
conceived.
This brings me to my next meeting with Beverly, whose
fortunes we will now follow.
It will be remembered that Ravalette had given him a
paper just before they parted in Belleville, and that Vatterale
had also left something for him at his hotel. Bearing this in
mind, observe what* followed.
In a bold, strong hand was written these words in the.note

92%

k
f
,S
h
t
tt
4
A
e
i.

11+
PE
f
[SI
t
f
;s=
4
1{jst
1s
4 3
II
yy
5  7
t    t' j
t ,
}
5 r7
1 S
t , t
i    1  1
t
3t'
v
e
tt
4
t }
it
i ;
i
i
e
S
1
s
ii
t
1
I
3
t
,
i
r
t
{
i

21

placed by Ravalette inthe hands Of Beterly When they parted
in Belleville--" When you need me-when you are toady to.
become one of us-_--When you have given ny all hope of eVer
probing the mystery of my existence avid yoi' onri-theti
seek me in the house that i. last but d6z, o1 the ieft ascenzdig the
Bodevairt de Luxembourg.-Ravalette."
The identical direction, and aliiost in the very words giveit
by the mysterious personage to Hokeis, in the hotel of the
Palais Royale on the previous night. The circumstances
zrade a great impression on my mind, but prudence forbadd
all mention of it to Beverly. He seemed quite glad of this
opportunity of solving the strange riddle, and, to my great
delight, begged and insisted that I should spend the day with
him, and in .he evening we would investigate the subject to-
gether; and that I readily consented, maY be easily imagined
There were several motives prompting tue in this affa{-nfi-
osity, friendship, and a vague hope of baffling what Beeilf
regarded as his doom. Those who have read carefully tat
has here been written, will remember that Beverlf had con-
vinced me that there was more in the strange legend, rega  .
ig the king, the princess, the riddle, the mi-der, and the chi6
and its fulfillment, than the majority of people would be *iI .
ing to concede. In short, I Was decidedly inclined to be1%
in Dhoula Bel aid the other doomand one, but I had  o fitb
whatever in either Mikkus, Ravalette, the Italian Doitit,ot
Vatterale. I did not believe all these named belonged to one
person, and I finally settled dow  on the following theory,
point by point :-=1st, That tiere was in existence a society,

THE HOUSE O ! T b )OULEVABT..


222

having its head-quarters in Paris, the members, of which were
practisers of Oriental magic and necromancy, in which they
were most astonishingly expert. 2d, That the organization
had for its object, not the attainment of wealth or political
position, but abstract knowledge, and the absolute rule of the
world through the action and influence of the brotherhood
upon the crowned heads and officials of the world. 3d, That
this association was governed by a master-mind, and that
mind was Ravalette's. 4th, That this society had cultivated
mesmerism to a degree unapproachable by all the world be-
sides That they had exhausted ordinary clairvoyance, and
eagerly sought a brain which would admit of the most
thorough magnetization, and whose natural tendency was to-
ward the mystical, transcendental and weird, yet strong,
strong-willed, logical, emulative, daring and ambitious ; and
that, to discover such, their agents had traversed all four
continents of the globe ; and that finally they had heard of
Beverly, whose fame as a seer was world-wide ; that they had
found him, and, beyond doubt, had learned the strange parti-
culars of his life, the legend, and his hope. They had seen
him, and at once decided that, under their wonderful manipu-
lation, he could be placed in a magnetic slumber many degrees
nore profound than is possible in one case in five millions, and
reach a degree of mental lucidity and psycho-vision that would
not only surpass all that the earth had yet witnessed in that
direction, from Budha, Confucius, Zoroaster, and the Oracles
of Greece, down to the days of Boehme and the Swede,
since when there has been no clairvoyant really worthy of the

BE

EAVALETTE. "

b
J
{
t(
i
1

name. True, there were semi-lucides in abundance, but these
either were only capable of reading or noting material objects,
and, at best, repeating the thoughts of other men, or giving
the contents of books as original matter, heaven-derived---as
the self-styled "great (sic) American seer" gave forth the
contents of a volume written by Pierpont Greeves, mixed and
muddled up with a few really sublime thoughts taken from
the minds of his scribe, his mesmerizer, and the highly intel-
lectual coterie who gathered round him during his stances.
5th, They knew that, unless Beverly's will accorded with
their desire, it would be useless to attempt to gain their ends
through him ; and hence, all their efforts by playing the shining
bait of magic for the purpose of inducing him to consent to
anything in order to gain their power. Hence, too, their gift
of the secrets of the Magic Mirror, the Elixir of Life, of Youth,
of Love, and a score of others equally curious and invaluable
to the student of the soul. 6th, It was clear that, while
these men knew much of the Rosicrucian system, they were
not in full harmony or accord with that brotherhood.
. Thus I reasoned, and it was easy to account for the scenes
in the Boston office and at Beverly's home-the apparent
immunity Miakus enjoyed from the effects of the fire, which
burnt the chair but not his thigh, I accounted for on the
ground that chemistry helped him, as it had a score of " fire-
kings " beside.
Thus far, I felt that my theory covered the whole ground
of this clever fraternity ; but when I recurred to the scenes
witnessed by no less than eighteen people at the house of the

228

A THEORY DEMOLISHED.


224           BvArr.

'i!
t'
If.

Baron, I confess, candidly, that it utterly failed. Still, I
totally rejected all supernaturalism as connected with the
affair, and, attributing the whole to expert trickery, I deter-
mined to lay a trap to catch the performers in the very act,
and flattered myself that it would be successful. " Ho ! ho !
Mr. Yatterale, I'll show  you !" I exclaimed, as I shook
Beverly's hand, and leaving him, to bathe, dress, and break-
fast alone, I hurried out, ostensibly to go to the post-office,
but, in reality, to visit the head-quarters of the Paris Police,
which .I did, and, when there, briefly but clearly stated my
belief that a friend of mine was being victimized in the man-
ner stated ; to all of which the chief official lent an attentive
ear, caused my proces verbal to be recorded, directed me how
to proceed so as not to alarm the suspected parties, and pro-
minsed to have a posse on hand very close to the house on the
l3oulevart de Luxembourg by the hour named. On my way
back to the Hotel Fleury, I dropped in to see if Hokeis was
home, but found only a note, informing me that he had gone
to Versailles after his daughter. I rejoined Beverly.

CHAPTER VIII.
THE BOULEVART DE LUXEMBOURG.
IMPATIENT as I was for the hour to arrive, iii which all my
doubts might be far'ever solved, yet Beverly was atil more
so. No condemned man evei wished inor6 afdentlf for the
moment when, by the halter or the glaive, the grand secret
should be revealed to him, than did my friend for that in
which he should know the best or the worst for him.
Three o'clock found us within a stone's throw of the house
designated as the rendezvous, and the three or foin little
shingles in front of it with " Appartements a loi'er," ' Chamn-
byes garni;" and "Cabinets mueubles," told at onde that it=
was one of those tniddle-class establishments where a p49o4i
might hire rooms and live undisturbed for a whole lifetime
provided the rent was duly paid.
Ito the sqare, paved court of this house we entered, ad
before the least inquiry Was made, the codierge canm dut Of
his erib, saluted us respectfully, and said:Y "You are two of
the gentlemen expected here to-day by the occupant of th
second floor. Please ascend. Vu will find hima in the fiist
roon to the left," and the old fellhW hobbled bask to his
nest, antds'instantly begati peggig Mawa at the heel of a #1hoe,
which he was engaged in healing and heeling when We en,
tered the court.
10*


}
f j
}  f
r t
fi
E
r
;u
t ,;t
t~
3I;r  4
If'rf
IE
kfl
Ier ,,irl
lit'
tail
i
;'td
(ir
ill
3 i l
Vii?
1  ''If
J
(f
i
Fill

BAVALETTE.

* Following his directions, we ascended a broad, winding
stairway of stone, and found ourselves on a landing. From
this landing one stairway ascended, and another led to the
court below. At the further end, but on the side/ was a
door, and at the hither end another. The house itself stood
quite isolated from all others, and the windows of the rooms,
it was clear, must overlook the boulevart and a lane crossing
it at right .angles. We entered the first door, and found
ourselves in a very plainly-furnished; large, square room, hav-
ing two windows at the end, two more on the side, a cup-
board, recess, and two large folding doors, both standing
wide open, so that, finding no person in the first room, we
passed through them into the second, but still failed to see or
even hear the least indication that their occupant was any-
where around. I was glad of this, for it gave opportunity
for an examination of the premises ; therefore calling the
concierge, I asked him the name, occupation, and period of
occupancy of his second-floor tenant, to which he very
readily responded, by saying that his tenant was a foreign
scholar named Elarettav ; that he was wealthy, had lived
there five years, and saw very little company, never dined or
eat in the house, and in short was a very fine man, indeed-
he paid two louis a month for porter's fees !. The concierge
left, and I carefully remarked the place, and found the floor
and ceiling was of stone, as are all French -houses. The
cupboard was low, narrow, and filled with wine bottles and
glasses, far more like a student's quarters than a grave phi-
losopher's like Ravalette, if, indeed, that personage was the

I

ELARETTAV IS RAVALETTE.

227

same described as Elarettav by the porter. The recess was
small and simple, and contained nothing but a cot bedstead
and its appropriate furniture. I concluded that there was
no preparation for magic, if any was intended, and as this
notion passed through my mind, the clock struck four, and
we heard the footsteps of a man in the other room, notwith-
standing the door was not seen to open. We went to that
other room, and, "Ravalette, as I live !" exclaimed Beverly;
and, sure enough, there stood, calmly smiling, just such an
old gentleman as I had heard described.
"You have sought, and you have found me ! I hope you
will profit by the finding," said he to Beverly ; "and you,
sir, have done well to accompany your friend,". addressing
me in a tone slightly insulting, and all the more so from
being slight. It was evident that he did not relish my pre-
sence in the least, and as for me I had no sooner set eyes on
my man than I felt assured of the truth of my theory, and
that. I stood in presence of one of the ablest intellects on
earth-a man capable of all that had been attributed to
him, and one who would reach his goal and carry his point
at all hazards, even if in doing so it were necessary to sail
through seas of human blood. I flatter myself on my
ability to measure men and to circumvent deliberate villainy,
and no sooner had I heard the tones of Ravalette's voice,
and seen the clear-cuit features of his face, than I at once
suspected some sort of foul.play was on the tapis, and which
I determined to thwart, even if I had to give him the solid
contents of a couple of Derringers and a Colt's revolver,

226


229

which I had taken care to provide myself with before 'ven-.
turitg into what night have been the den of unscrupulods
wretches, for aught I knew to the contrary. It may be that
Etaalette read my thoughts, for he certainly looked uneasy,
but said nothing, for at that moment the contcierge threw
open the door and announced " Monsieur IRokeis et fle," and
my travelling companion and his daughter-the most volup-
t ous and glorious looking woman that I had ever beheld in
say land, not even excepting the glowing beauties of Beyrout
or Stamboul-entered the room.
Ravalette seemed to have been expecting them, and did not
appear at all surprised at their uninvited presence ; but the
effet upon Hokeis and his daughter, the very moment they
beheld his face, was perfectly electrical, yet totally dissimilar,
for Hokeis instantly threw himself upon his knees before
Ravalette, bent his head, and folded his hands in an attitude
half supplieatory, half adoring, and said :
" Oh, dread genius of the Fire and the Flame! do I see
thee 4e6he   Alas I I am a wretched man, but thou art pow-
erftd and will forgive I My defection was not my choice,
but that of accident, and in, the religion of Isauvi have I
f tnd note peace than ever in thy temples or the temples of
Astartes I"
My berin fairly reeled beneath the tremendous rush of
etetions, confticting as a whirlwind, excited by this extraor-
diiWry see e&amp;; while, as for Beverly, his face was like an
abe~n et,1 hia limbs W1re like an aspent
The r   Oiement these- emotions underwent an entire
en'

I.

f

A STRANGE RECEPTION.

229

change, for the woman, who appeared not to have taken the
least notice of her father's action or speech, went straight up
to Ravalette, placed her jewelled hand upon his shoulder,
looked him straight in theeye, as if she would wither and
crush him at a glance, and in a voice low, but clear and
deep, said : " And so, thou fiend, we meet again ! Art going
to essay more of thy tricks and magic spells ? Art going
to set more snares for the daughter of Im Hokeis ? Wretch,
thou art foiled again ! What, tell me, what i thou fiend of
Darkness, couldst thou gain by persecuting me now, as in
my loneliness ? What wouldst thou gain by seeing me
wedded-to 'no matter who'm'-as you. said, so long as
I wa   wedded ?   Why   have you haunted   me, asleep
and awake, tempting, -driving me toward a marriage ?
What hadst thou to gain?   You do not answer. Well,
I will answer for you :                       -
"Do you remember a day, long years ago, when I was a
child, beyond the great salt sea, that you came to an old
man's door and craved shelter for the night ? Well, I do.
You were received by the generous Indian. You shared his
table, his pipe, and his cider. Then, as you sat by the fire,
you noticed me, and must needs tell my fortune. You did
so, and truly. You said that in one month from that day.I
should. meet a sad-hearted youth, weary, weeping, miserable,
lonely ; that he would engage my heart, and that I would
easily be led to love and wed him ; but that if I did so,
black clouds would lower over us, and that our morn of love.
would bring a noon of dislike, an evening of sorrow, and a


THE DRAMA INTENSIFIES.           231

280               RAVALETrLT

night of crime, 'ignominy and death. You said that my
union with any other man would bring all that could render
life desirable. I believed you, for a hundred things that you
foretold came to pass. At length, three weeks of the month
elapsed ; and one night I had a dream, and in it I saw you,
and the young man, whom in the body I had never yet beheld.
In that dream you repeated all that you had said before,
and then you disappeared ; but your hateful presence had no
sooner quit me than there came a glorious being, robed in
majesty and beauty, who bade me heed you not, but to love
this poor creature whose shadow was then before me-to
love, but not confess it till the proper time should come ;-
that if I wedded another than him I might be happy, but
that if I married him I would redeem a soul from a terrible
fate. He bade me resist you, and to encourage the youth,
cheer up his heart, and tell him not to despair, for he might
be happy yet. He also "-but she had not time to say an-
other word; for Beverly rushed forward, pushed Ravalette
away, seized the woman's hand, kissed it, and exclaimed :
"'Evlambea '
"'Beverly 1'
And in an instant they were locked in each other's
arms.
It was indeed'*the friend of long-gone years, and yet I had
not even suspected this fact, even after hearing the story of
Im Ilokeis and the gipsy adventure.
I felt that this drama was getting deeper every minute,
but had not time to think of one half of what was occurring

I

ere the door was opened by no less a personage than the
Commissary of Police, followed by two of the garde de ville,
while, through the open door, I saw that the stairs and land-
ing were literally crowded with gens d'arms.
The drama was getting very serious.
Ravalette stood unmoved, and smiled, saying :
" Your trouble is in vain, monsieur ! You are not wanted
here, and will immediately return whither you came, while
monsieur here, who engaged you to come, is at liberty to re-
main."
This cool speech disconcerted the official a little, but he
replied : " It is my duty to protect all who demand it for
themselves or others."
"True ; but in this case no act has been committed or
designed that could in the least afford just ground for such
a demand. Still, as you are here, why here you may
remain until you Ore satisfied of the truth of my remarks.
Pray be seated."
The term "intensely dramatic " would not begin to give an
adequate notion of the "situation" at this particular junc-
ture of affairs. The only person who was, completely at
ease was Ravalette. As for Hokeis, the brush of Michael
Angelo and Raphael combined could not have done justice
to his portrait, nor have limned one-hundredth part of the
intense and overwhelming astonishment and horror depicted
on his countenance at what he beheld and heard. No two
persons looked at the affair in the same light, nor regarded-
the Enigma from the same point of view, neither did they

,iI
I


comprehend each other, but all were comprehended by the
giet master before them.
For a While -an unpleasant silence reigned, which was at
length, much to my surprise, broken by my Rosicrucian
friend, Beverly, who, looking Ravalette straight in the eye,
said:
" Whoever you are, I forgive you for the attempt to pre-
vent myself; a son of Adam, wedding with this woman, Ev-
lamba, the Bright-shining Daughter of Ish ; I forgive yob
for persecuting her toward a marriage with another, which
.marriage must have doomed ime to a fate I have for centuries
shrunk fromh ; I forgive you all the woe yon have caused me,
because gratitude for what you have done for brie exacts this;
and because I suspect your agent saved mhy life when the re-
toift buist in Boston, when I was repeating La Briere's en
pierinient with phosphorus. Through you, of such as you, I
have learned priceless secrets. The mystery of Magic Mir-
rors I am grateful for being taught. The se8&amp;t of ad ,
-the art of making the Elixir of Life, whereof whosoever
shall drink shall never know decay, but so long as once a
year he shall qQff thereof, may enjoy perpetual youth-I am
inexpressibly thankful for. I shall never use this secret for
that purpose, but five of the seven ingitedients, *hen mii-
gled, constitute what chemistry has sought in vain; and bd-
queathing this portion of the formuhe to my friend, and
through him to the medical world, I shall atone for my few
faults by giving 'life to thousands.
SFreely, without force or compulsion, I solemnly promise

" PIERRE, CALL TZE GUARD I"

to sleep the sleep of Sialam before I quit this house, and in it
will truly answer you all I may be able to, on condition that
you previously clear up the mystery surrounding yourself ;
thus voluntarily giving you what an age of fraud would not
enable you to obtain, you first solemnly promising, by Him
by whose will you exist, be you man or demon, not to influ-
ence mne, either now or when I shall slumber."
A gleam of sudden joy flashed from the eyes of the strange
being before us. He looked like a bridegroom in the fullness
of his joy, and clasping both hands-pale, thin, bluish-white
.hands-upon his breast, he looked up and said :
So be it ! I solemnly bind myself, by the most terrible
oath conceivable, that I accept all your conditions."
Then going to the recess mentioned before, he brought
thence a semi-circular screen, a little taller than a man, and
about four feet in diameter. This he requested the Comn-
missary of Police to examine, who did so, and declared it to
be nothing but a common bedside screen.
"You are right ! it is nothing but a bedside screen. Such
as it is, however, I request you to select for it any spot yow
choose upon the stone floor of either of these rooms. I shall
want to go behind it ; and that you may not harbor a
thought of an intended evasion on my part, I request that
you call your men intothe room and give them orders to
shoot me if I attempt to pass them 1"
" Just as you please, nionsieur I Pierte, call the guard."
In obedience to this summons, the corps de garde filed,
into the room, twenty-seven strong, and as soon as the last

9

233


BAVALETrE.
man entered, the officer addressed them, saying, as he pointed
to Ravalette, " This gentleman thinks to escape. See to it
that he does not pass you alive. The very instant that, he
appears unattended by myself, fire upon him. I so command
you : see that my orders are executed. Does that suit you,
Monsieur Ravalette ?"
" Perfectly-perfectly ! nothing could be better," said the
latter
"You will place fourteen  men around the house to
watch the windows, and the other thirteen you will distribute
on the stairs and landing," said the commissary.
"It shall be done," said the sergeant, as he marched his men
from the chamber-but not till I had placed a double-barrel-
led Deringer and a Colt's revolver, both freshly capped and
loaded, in his hands-for I hated Ravalette ; man or demon, I
hated him religiously-that being the strongest kind of dis-
like-and I had an intense desire to, ascertain whether he
was bullet-proof or not
During all this time, the father, daughter, lover, myself,
and the commissary's two comrades had said nothing, but at
a sign from Ravalette we took our seats in such a position
that we commanded the hall-door, that between the two
rooms, the recess, the cupboard, and the windows on either
side. The commissary placed the convex side of the screen
toward us, in the middle of the room, and then taking a
seat by my side, said, that so far . as he was concerned, all
was ready, and from the pallor of his lips, the tone in which
he spoke, and from the frequency with which he crossed himself

b
D

RAVALETTE EXPLAINS.              28
and muttered an orison, compounded of bad French and worse
Latin, it was clear that he wished his hands well washedof
the whole affair.
" I, too, am ready," observed the wizard, "and I, who
have nothing to conceal, declare that I am he whom yonder
man-Im Hokeis, and his Guebre-tribe, have for centuries
believed to be the God of Fire and of Flame. The mystery
of my being cannot yet be solved. I ,am not alone ! The
mastery, over Matter and over Magi, is an inheritance of the
ages. We who were once as others are, became doomed
ones by reason of the curse of a dying man, and like Isaac
Ahasuerus, the Hebrew of Jerusalem, who cursed and spat
upon the Man of Sorrows when bearing his gibbet up the
steep lane of the Dolorous Way, and whom the Meek one
cursed, and bade tarry'on earth till he came-even so is he
not alone. Powerful in all else, not one of us can read his
own future ; but for that must depend on gifted ones like
yonder Beverly. Such are seldom born ; but when they
are, there is only one opportunity to make them subservient
to our aid-they must be unwedded in soul, else they cannot
enter the sleep of Sialam, and in no other way can the scroll
of Fate be read for us. Hence the obstacles thrown in- his
path and in that of yonder girl... It is possible to shift our
fate upon the neutral, whoever he may be ; but in this case a
strong motive existed to saddle the centuries upon yonder
man, who has, in various forms, been my contemporary since
ages previous to the laying of the foundations of Babylon
and Nineveh.

U

t
t .


286A                         TE.
" There is one more in being-by him I have been foiled
-the. Stranger-and still another-the mother of this Be-
verly's body. I hoped to win him by Magic; I have failed. He
has seen me thus, as I am,"-and so saying, Ravalette slowly
moved around the screen, continuing to speak all the while,
until he reappeared on the other corner-and saying, "and
thus." We were astonished beyond measure at the change
that had, in less than twelve seconds, taken place.
Ravalette no longer stood before us, but instead, we saw
a thin, lean, little, wrinkled old man, the perfect opposite in
everything of the person we had just conversed with. " Mia-
kus ! as I live-the man of Portland and of Boston-the
same !" exclaimed Beverly, as the figure passed once more
from view behind the screen, and almost instantly reappeared
in a totally dissimilar guise. " And thus I" said the wizard.
"My heaven !" said Beverly, " it is Ettelavar, my myste-
rious. guide and teacher in the kingdom of Trance and
Dream !"
Again this strange being passed around the screen, saying,
" and thus," as he reappeared successively as the Italian
V Count and Vatterale. The wizard said, when in the last form,
"Mai is but a transposition of I am ; 'Miakus' is 'Myself,'V
Vatterale is a anagram of Ravalette, and a school-boy/
would have told you that Ettelavar is but Ravalette reversed K
-the name meaning 'The Mysterious.' To you, Beverly, I
have been all these.  Behold me now as I really am," and
he passed 'round the screen, and reappeared again as a little,
withered old man, clothed in flaming red from head to heel.

CLEARING UP.           237

"The Vampire, Dhoula Bel !" shrieked both Beverly and
Im Hokeis in the same breath.
*- *      *      *     *      *
What passed during the nett half hour, it would not be
proper for me here to relate. Suffice it, that at the end of
that time Beverly had fallen asleep, apparently of his own free
will. What followed will be seen in the next, and concluding
chapter of this work.

i

I


CHAPTER IX.
THE   SLEEP OF SIALAM.
DEEP was the silence, hushed were our breaths. Quick
beat our hearts, tearful were our eyes, for a greater than
even Death was in that room on the Boulevart de Lux-
embourg !
Seated in a large office-chair, his limbs stiff and cold with
the damps of dissolution ; his face paler than the Genius of
Consumption ; his heart and pulses totally moveless ; his
eyes wide open, and so upturned that not a speck of aught
but the uncolored portions thereof were visible, was my friend.
In previous years I had often seen him and hundreds of
others in both the mesmeric and' odyllic trance-the latter
being the very common semi-comatic state into which sensi-
tive persons often pass by the merest effort of volition, and
in which they give off such high-sounding platitudes and call
them philosophy transmitted direct from spirit-land to erring
mortals, when the fact is, that the whole phenomena-when
not simulated, which is not the case in over nine hundred and
ninety cases in each thousand of its display-is but the con- .
current action of a diseased body and an abnormal, unhealthy
mind, and in many cases morals also, for it makes no matter
how good or well-intentioned the subjects may be in the
288

I.

"AT LAST?" "AT LAST!"

239

start, they are sure to yield before the accursed blast, and
only the fires of hell itself can stop their mad career and turn
them back to normal paths.
Not such a trance was that we. now were witnessing. In
the course of five minutes there came a change in the sleep-
er's face, which became lighted up as if at that moment his
soul beheld the ineffable glories of the great Beyond.
He spoke : " Now 1"
As this one word escaped his lips, the door of the room
was silently opened, and two men entered and were about
taking seats, when the Commissary of Police suddenly rose,
made a low obeisance, saluted one of them in military style,
and exclaimed, " The Emp-    "
"Silence I" said the person addressed ; " all are strangers
here !" And then turning to Dhoula Bel, with whom he
appeared quite familiar, this person said to him, " At last ?"
"At last !" echoed the latter ; whereupon the two new
comers helped themselves to seats.
The whole affair had gone thus far so directly opposite to
all my calculations ; events had taken such sudden and totally
unexpected turns, that I ceased to marvel at this new game
of cross-purposes, but determined to watch the results' care-.
fully, whatever they might be. Of course I expected that
the new comer would now take the lead of affairs.. But no ;
for Dhoula Bel, as I shall henceforth call him, addressed
the shorter of the.two intruders as follows:
StWhy do you, too, seek to thwart me ?  Many years ago
I found you a student of magic in your lonely prison, whither,

i
"
t
4 Y
E
a
}
}T
i
r j
j F


240

you had been consigned because you had failed on two occa,
sions. I rescued you, gave you liberty, influence, power,
prestige, and seated you firmly on the proudest throne on
earth ; I have made you famed and feared ; I have humbled
Britain in your name ; for you I have broken the power of
ages-the Papacy ; for you I have severed Austria, and
built a new empire on the earth. For you I have fomented
the most awful war the world has ever seen, and have divided
a nation of brothers into two parties, each thirsting for the
other's blood ; and while you have been the silent automaton,
I have prompted your speech and moved the wires that
govern' the world, asking nothing whatever in return, and
yet you are here to thwart me who have ever been your
friend. Why is this ?"
"I admit-nothing. I am a man of Destiny !"
" Shall I reveal it ?"
" I care not."
" Well, I forbear ; but let this sleeper tell it."
"I am content. Interrogate him. This is the hour, and
this the scene for which I long have waited. Let the oracle
speak."
"Listen-to me," said the taller of the two intruders. "Ye
have both been proxies of a power beyond us all ; and even
as I, the Stranger, have foiled each of ye, yet my action
was decreed. The drama of ages may end to day. Not
one of us can read his own future ; there is but one on earth
who can read it, and there is but one hour in which it may
be done. That person is here ; that hour has come. Not

I

HE SLEEPS THE SLEEP OF SIALAM.

241

with the magnetic afflatus of puling, babbling somnambules ;
not with the boastful confidence of self-styled explorers of
mythical Summer Lands, or imaginary spheres ; but with a
vision, simple, pure and accurate, shall yonder sleeper sweep
the horizon of the future, and reveal it. Therefore let there
be quietude and peace, while the mystic scroll is being
read."
Then turning to the slumberer, he said : ",What seest
thou, 0 Soul ? Look ! investigate ! reveal ! What seest
thou concerning France and her ruler ?"
" France will experience another Revolution. It will be-
gin in Water and end in Blood and Fire ! but the end will
be delayed. Crown, Sceptre, Dynasty-all are swept away
before the resistless tide of Political Reformation, and the
last noble and priest shares the fate of the last crowned head
-exile and death."
" What of the other Nationalities ?"
" Prussia, under a new rigime, becomes indeed a Father-
land to her people ; Belgium, Holland, and other of the
Germanic lands, become consolidated with empires now
existing; Spain's night draws near-her colonies, erected
into Black Republics, leave her to sink in loneliness, until at
last she becomes, with Rome, an integral part of the great
Italian Empire ; Austria becomes dismembered ; Hungary
and Poland coalesce and form a new power on. the earth ;
Turkey passes into Greek hands ; Syria into Russian ; Eng-
land loses Canada, India, Oregon and Ireland, which latter
becomes a Republic; the United States, rejoined, absorbs
11

f1

AVA  TE,


- 242              RAvALrrE.

Canada, Mexico and all British America-her Black races
found an empire which will extend from her southern bor-
ders to Brazil, under the rule of a series of Presidents ;
China, Christianized by the Taepings, becomes a first-class
power in the East, blotting out Japan and a score of lesser
kingdoms ; while India and Australia become respectively
an Empire and a Republic ; and all this within sixty-three
years from the seventh decade of the century !"
" What of Religious changes-?  Speak ! Let us know !"
" All Religious systems in the world, outside of the
Christian, will . gravitate toward, and finally ' be wholly'
absorbed by it-; and while this is taking place, there will be
a quiet revolution occurring in that system itself ; Catholi-
cism, modified and divested of certain objectionable features,
will become the right wing and conservative portion of the
Religion of the entire world, while the radical portion of that
Church, and of all other churches, will secede, rear the standard
of Free Thought, proclaim the Religion of Reason, espouse
the Reformatory men and principles of the age, declare itself
aPositive, Eclectic, and Progressive Faith, abjuring the doc-
trines of Original Sin, the Adamic, Mosaic, Hebraic Atonement
theories, and everything affirmative of Miracle, Final Judg-
ment, and a Hell. This party will be in a minority, and the
left wing of the grand Religious system of the world; .it will
constantly receive accessions of recruits from the other and
barbaric element of society ; but so rapid will be the human
march, that the.right flank of the grand army will coi..
stantly crowd the left and occupy its ground, while the latter

will as constantly move on toward new fields, as new ideas
are developed and seen."
" Now, Prophet, what of thyself ?"
"Speedy death, relief from sorrow, a lot with other men,
and comparative happiness-on the other side of time."
" What of the Rosicrucian System ?1"
"I have already sketched it under the name of the
left wing. But ere long there will arise a great man-a
German-a Prussian, who will declare that system to the
world, and who will be the Man of the 19th century ; and
yet his astonishing power and influence will not be felt until
he shall be dead and the twentieth century shall reach. its
third decade. That man lives to-day-in obscurity-otqily
unknown ; he is in America, but will arise to his world in
Europe, and will be to the intellectual and philosophical
world, what Budha was to India, Plato to Greece, Thothmes
III. to Egypt, Moses to Jewry, Mahomet to Arabia, Luther
to Europe, and Columbus to the New World. Tins
GERMAN IS THE COMING MAN ! He will first be heard
of in Tew York city, in connection with a small, but
powerful journal that will soon see the light, and begin its
work in that great Metropolis. Supposing the whole field
of possible human progress and achievement to be embraced
within the circle of twenty-six, then this man's field em-
braces the figures 3, 8, 1, 18, 12, 5, 19 ; 20, 18, 9, 14,
9, 21, 19,-and his motto will be TRY ! The figures are
easily solvable. This man will be simple, earnest and unos-
tentatious, but firm, steadfast and uncompromising. His

TUE COMING MAN.


EAVALETTE.
resources will be millions, and he will command all the gold
he needs for the great work to be accomplished. He will
boldly announce the grand Doctrines of the THIRD AND CUL-
)!INATING Temple of the Rosie Cross ; and his followers will
be as the sands of the sea in number, and their principles
will, in time, be as resistless as its waves. He will begin his
work personally, and by agency before this great Rebellion
in behalf of Human Slavery shall have been ended. Mark
that 1"
As the sleeping man gave utterance to these inspired
prophesies, the less tall of the two strangers appeared dis-
turbed, and almost rising to his feet with excitement, he said-
"Then this man's career will resemble my own ?"
" As fire resembles ice. This man's career will be peace-
ful ; his path will not be stained by one single drop of blood.
No maimed men will curse, no widows weep, no orphans cry
for vengeance, nor will the ignorance of the people constitute
the lever of his power, nor be the instrument by means of
which he will vault into a throne !"
" But I am strong !-Mexico !-Empire !-The Latin
race !-The Church !-Maximilian! What can break this
chain, supposing I establish the last link, as I intend to ?"
"Fate ! The United States will, in that case, soon find
time to breathe upon France and the New Empire ! That
breath will settle as a cloud, but, when it rises, two dynasties
will have disappeared forever !"
" Damnation !" exclaimed the questioner, and he stamped
his feet and ground his teeth with rage almost demoniac.

245.

ly
}p!
C
it
Yi
pk"
r
Vr
t-
iJ
f.   ?
d+
V

" There will be two damned nations, if that programme is
carried out," said the sleeping man, in tones musical and
calm, as if he was discussing the merits of a play rather than
prophesying the fate and destinies of Empires.
For a moment there was silence. At length Ravalette
spoke-
"And now my turn. What, 0 sleeper ! what of me ?"
The seer smiled blandly, stretched forth his hands toward
both the tall personage and the Enigma. They went forward,
grasped the sleeper's hands in their own, and-
"The Enmity of Ages is ended 1"
"It is ended !" repeated the tall one.
" It is finished  Thy work is done-and mine-and
thine "-indicating Ravalette-said the seer.   "Hence-
forward, there is rest for the weary-there is rest for thee!1
No longer doomed to walk the earth,.we three quit it. Our
paths diverge frdm this moment. Above our heads is a scroll,
on which is written-
'YE MAY BE HAPPY YET 1
"Thank Heaven 1" said Dhoula Bel.
"Thank Heaven 1" repeated the Stranger.
"It is finished !" said Beverly, and, as he spoke, Dhoula
Bel moved behind the screen, and, the very instant that he
did so, there came the sharp crack of fire-arms in the ha,11and
on the stairs, accompanied with any amount of oaths uttered
in not very choice French.
Immediately, running to the door along with the Commissary

"WE MAY BE HAPPY YET!"


1AVALETTE.
of Pollee and one of his comrades, U demanded to know the
Muse of the disturbance.
"By the Holy Evangelists ! I fired straight into his head,
and it didn't faze him an inch !" said the sergeant.
"'And I struck him square in the middle of the head, and
that didn't harm him in the least !" said another.
" And I put two Derringer bullets anti four Colt's fair into
his breast, at ten inches, and blast me if all six didn't fly
hack and hit -me,!" exclaimed a third.
" And I'll swear that he didn't come through the open
door, for it was fast shut, with my hand on the knob, every
second of the time !" said the fourth.
" It was the devil I" said a fifth.
" Or his imp !" said the sixth.
"And I'll swear he never passed by me on the lower
stlr !". observed the seventh man.
Come hither into the room and tell us what you are
driving at," said the Commissary.
" I'm  driving at nothing just now," said the sergeant,
as he came in " but I have been trying to drive somerbullets
through the devil! -Do -you remember telling me not to
let a certain person go out, even if I had to shoot him to
6revAiit ?"
"Certainly I do. Go on."
"ell, the lfat thti  U knew, that gentleman stood out-
side the door, and sid, 'as he made faces and ran out his
tongue at me, 'I'm going out in spite of you, monsieur.,
'Adfyou, indebd7' ' Ofeohrse Iam: just see me do it,'

DUOULA'S LAST MAGIO.               241
said he, and he marched straight for the stairs, and four o
us undertook to clinch him, and did so. Gentlemen, have
you ever picked p a hot potatoe? Well, I have, and did
not let it drop quicker than we four let go of that individual l
only that instead of burning us, it felt for all the world like
one feels at the Polytechnic when he takes hold of those in-
fernal things with wires to them, and which discharge a
quart or two of lightning into you before you can say-Jack
Robinson ! We let go of the gentleman very quickly, and
he passed two or three steps downward, all the while.latugh-
ing at us, which made me furious, and I fired point-blank at
him, and we all attempted to cut him down, but you nght
just as well have tried to kill a shadow. Messieurs, that
man disappeared in the smoke of our pistols i He never-
passed out in visible form I"
During the sergeant's relation I had determined to see.if
Dhoula Bel had really left the room, and for that purposes
carelessly walked toward the window and past the screen.
Tre ewas nobody whatever behind or near it.
back, said nothing, but resumed the seat I had formerly 00.
cupied.
"Are you sure of what you tell us; that you are wide
awake, and not dreaming ?" Said the Commissary.
" As certain as I am that he is not now in this room.
"Which shows how easily people may be deceived," said
a voice from behind the screen and instantlyy thereafter
Dhoula Bel himself walked out into the middle of the flolr-
stone floor it was-and after pointing his finger scornfuly at

4
Sz
f
S
'
E
s
E
E
s
f
$
r.


HOME AGADT.

the sergeant and his men, he deliberately walked back be-
hind the screen again.
My hair stood up with fright and horror ; not so the seven
brave Frenchmen ; for with one accord they rushed toward
the screen, exclaiming: "But we have you now, man or
devil l" dashed it away with a single blow, and-
There was no one whatever behind it.
The sergeant fell as if he had been shot.
Determined to preserve myself from surprise, I steadily
kept my seat and watched the Stranger and his companion.'
The latter rose from his chair, advanced toward Hokeis and
his daughter, who had both sat silent and spell-bound dur-
ing the whole of this extraordinary scene of diablerie, and
spoke a few words in a low tone to them.
While this was going on, the tall Stranger passed into the
other room, and within a period of twelve seconds I rose and
followed, but he too had disappeared
There was a marriage-in Paris next day. A son of Adam
had wedded with a*daughter of Ish. ,
Two weeks later we carried an invalid to the baths of
Switzerland. We remained there two months, then, finding
that he grew worse, conveyed him back to Paris.

Three months, elapsed.
paths of Pere le Chaise.
made grave. Upon its

A funeral cortege wound up the
A coffin was lowered into a.new-
brink stood an old grey-haired

248s

1'1*

B A.VALETTE.

249

;.
r
:
S
,v

man upholding and consoling a beautiful but sorrow-hearted
woman-one .who had but recently been a bride.    -
Four months passed : I was on the eve of quitting France.
I went to the cemetery, and for an hour sat by a tombstone,
on which was sculptured these words-
"BEVERLY, THE ROSIORUCIAN.
"e renais de Mes Cendres !"
That was all I
Across the sea. I tread my native soil again. I have
availed myself of the knowledge imparted by my friend.
Last night, in. returning from the Rosicrucian lodge to
which I have the honor to belong, I called upon a lady
friend in the -th Avenue. In her arms she held a bright
and glowing child-" a boy," said she. " Is he not beauti-
ful? Is he not like his father ?"
* "Wonderfully like," I replied. " What is its name ?"
"Osiris Budh I Curious name, isn't it?
"Very 1" I replied, as I took my leave-" very,!I"
COSTSMAm:            8ET-


f
x
+
4
Yy
f
V}

])Y DR. P. B. RANDOLPH,
,"'THE DUMAS OF AMERICA,
AUTHOR OF "WAA, GU-MAH"cRFR-ADA IT iA(,T ' |I4&amp;1 08 IT '1  A
"IT ISN'T ALL eight, ' "TIRE U VILINgIOF wPIIM," 2"W  hA
SECRET,' " HUMAN LOVE-A PHYSICAL 8B,'C
NEW YORK:
SINCLAIR TOUSEY, 121 NASSAU STREET.
1868.

TOM CLARK AND HIS WIFE,
TUEIR DOUBLE DREAMS, AND THE CURIOUS THINGS THAT
BEFELL THEM THEREIN;
BEING
THE ROSICRIUCIAN'S TOY.


x
Y

PART I.

Duia Coa    s T--..:
Since we parted at the "Golden Gate," the weight of a world has rested
on your shoulders, and I have suffered much, in my journeyings up and down the
world, as wearily I wandered over Zahara's burning sands and among the shrines
and monuments of Egypt, Syria, and Araby the blessed; separated in body, but
united in soul, we have each sought knowledge, and, I trust, gained wisdom. Our
boor is just begun. One portion of that work consists ln the endeavor to unmask
Tillainy, and vindicate the sanctity and perpetuity of marriage.  In this little
work I have tried to do this, and believe that If the magic talisman herein recom-
mended as a sovereign balm for the strifes and ills of wedlock, be faithfully used,
that the great married world will adopt your motto and my own, and become con.
tined that in spite of much contrary seeming 'wu d aA   anAPPY YET I m n
To you, and to such this book is
Affectionately dedicated by your friend and the world's,
P. 3. RANDOLPH.

THE MAN.
HE used to pace rapidly up and down the deck for a
minute or two, and then, suddenly striking his forehead, as if
a new thought were just pangfully coming into being at the
major foci of his soul, he would throw himself prone upon
one of the after seats of the old " Uncle Sam," the steamer in
which we were going from San Francisco to Panama, and
there he would lie, apparently musing, and evidently enjoying
some sort of interior life, but whether that life was one of
reverie, dream, or disembodiedness, was a mystery'to us 4ll,
and would have remained so, but that on being asked, he very
complaisantly satisfied our donibts, by informing us that on
such occasion he, in spirit, visited a place not laid down in
ordinary charts, and the name of which was the realm of
" Wotchergifterno," which means in English, "Violinist's
Meadow" (very like " Fiddler's Green"). When not pacing
the deck, or reclining, or gazing at the glorious sunsets'on
the sea, or the still more gorgeous sun-risings on the mon-
8

I

wmwwwwm.-W-W

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.


THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

L ARA"

tains, he was in the habit of---catching flies; which flies he
would forthwith proceed to dissect and examine by means of
a microscope constructed of a drop of water in a bent broom
wisp. Giadually the man became quite &amp; favorite. itly both
passengers and officers of the ship, and not a day passed but
a crowd of ladies and gentlemen would gather around him to
listen to the stories he would not merely recite, but cotnpose
as he went along, each one containing a moral of more than
ordinary significance. It was apparent from the first that
the man was some sort of a mystic, a dreamer, or some such
out-of-the-ordinary style of person, because everything he
said or did bore an unmistakable ghostly impress. lie was
sorrowful withal, at times, and yet no.one on the ship had a
greater or more humorous flow of spirits. In the midst,
however, of his brightest sallies, he would suddenly stop short,
as if at that moment his listening soul had caught the jubi-
lant cry of angels when God had just pardoned some sinful,
stornm-tossed human soul.
One day, during the progress of a long and interesting
conversation on the nature of that mysterious thing called
the human soul, and in which our fellow passenger had, as
usual, taken a leading part, with the endeavor to elicit, as.
well as impart, information, he suddenly .changed color,
turned almost deathly pale, and for full five minutes, perhaps
more, looked straight into the sky, as if gazing upon the aw-
ful and ine1able mysteries of that weird IFhantem-land which
intuition demonstrates, but cold reason utterly rejects or
challenges for; tangible proof. .Long, and steadily gazed the

4

L

I-

5

nman ; and then he shuddered--shuddered as if hebd just
received some fearful, solution of the problem near his heart.
And I shuddered also-in pure sympathy with what I e nld
not fairly understand. At length he spoke; but with. hated
breath, and in tones so low, so deep, so solemn, that it seem-
ed as though a dead, and. not a living man, gave, utterance
to the sounds : " Lara ! Lara I Ah, Lovely I would that. I
had gone then--that I were with thee now I" and he relapsed
into silence.
Surprised, both at his abruptness, change; of manner- and
theme--for ten minutes before, and despite the solemnity of
the conversational topic, he had been at a fever-heat of fun
and hilarity-I asked him what he meant. . Accustomed, as
we had been, to hear him break in upon the most grave:.and
dolorous-talk with a droll observation which instantly ,pro-
roked: the most unrestrainable, hilarious mirth ; used, as we
had been to hear him perpetrate a 'joke, and set us all in *
roar in the very midst of some heart-moving tale of woe,
whereat our eyes had moistened, and our pulses throbbed
tumultuously, yet I was not, even by all this, prepared for
the singular characteristic now presented. In reply to ;my
question, he first wiped away an involuntary tear, a.s if
ashamed of his weakness ; then raised his head, and ex-
claimed:
"Lara I Lara ! The Beautiful One I"
"-';What of her ?" asked Colbert, who, sat opposite hiaand
iwho was deeply moved .at his evident distress, and whose
curiosity, as that ofxus all, wag deeply piqued.

I


8

"Listen," said he, " and I will tell you ;" and then, while
we eagerly drank in his words, and strove to' drink in their
strange and wondrous meaning (first warning us that what
he was about to say was but the text of something to be
thereafter told), he leaned back upon the taifrail, and while
the steamer gently plowed her way toward Acapulco and
far-off Panama, said :
"Fleshless, yet living, I strode through the grand old hall,
of a mighty temple. I had been compelled to climb the hills
to reach the wall that bars the Gates of Glory, and now
within my heart strange pulses beat the while. I found my-
self upon the verge of a vast extended plain, stretching out
to the Infinitudes, as it seemed, through the narrow spaces
wherein the vision was not obstructed by certain dense, con-
volving vapor-clouds that ever and anon rose from off the
murky breast of the waters of the river of Lethe, that rolled
hard by and skirted the immense prairie on and over which I
proposed to travel, on my way from Minus to Plus--from No.
thing to Something, from Bad to Good, and from Better to.
BEST-travelling toward my unknown, unimagined Destiny
-travelling from the Now toward the Shall Be. And I
stood and mutely gazed-gazed at the dense, dark shadows
rolling murkily, massily over the plain and through the spaces
-dim shadows of dead worlds. No sound, no footfall, not
even mine own-not an. echo broke the Stillness. I was
alone 1!-alone upon the vast Solitude-the tremendous wastes
of an unknown, mysterious, unimagined Eterne--unimagined
in all its fearful stillitude I Within my bosom there was a

TH ROSIORUOUN18 STORY.

7

0  H~R0I0UOAN5STRY                             TE EMLE/

heart, but no pulse went from it bounding through my veins ;
no throb beat back responsive life to my feeling, listening
spirit. I and my Soul were there alone ; we only-the
Thinking self, and the Self that ever knows, but never thinks
--were there. My heart was not cold, yet it was more : it
was, I felt, changed to solid stone-changed all save one
small point,. distant, afar off, like unto the vague ghost
of a long-forgotten fancy ; and this seemed to have been
the penalty inflicted for things done by me. while on the
earth ; for it appeared that I was dead, and that my soul
had begun an almost endless pilgrimage-to what ?-to
where ?  A penalty ! And yet no black memory of red-
handed crime haunted me, or lurked in the intricacies of the
mystic wards of my death-defying soul ; and I strode all
alone adown the uncolumned vistas of the grand old temple
-a temple whose walls were builded of flown Seconds, whose
tesselated pavements were laid in sheeted Hours, whose win-
dows on one side opened upon the Gone Ages, and on the
other upon the Yet to Be ; and its sublime turrets pierced
the clouds, which roll over and mantle the hoary summits of
the grey Mountains of Time 1 And so I and my Soul walked
through this temple by ourselves-alone,!
"With clear, keen gaze, I looked forth upon the Vastness,
and my vision swept over the floors of all the dead years ;
yet in vain, for the things of my longing were not there. I -
beheld trees, but all their leaves were motionless, and no carol-
ing bird sent its he'art-notes forth to waken the dim solitudes
into life and music-which are. love. There were stately

THE TEMLE.


8  ROSICRUOIANS NEVER FAIL I,   9

groves beneath the arching span of the temple's massy dome,
but no amphian strains of melody fell on the ear, or filled the
spaces,,from their myriad moveless branches, or from out their
fair theatres. All was still. It was a palace of frozen tones,
and only the music of Silence (which is vocal, if we listen
well) prevailed ; and I, Paschal the Thinker, and my Thought
-strange, uncouth, yet mighty but moveless thought-were
the only living things beneath the expansive dome. Living,
I had sacrificed all things--health, riches, honor, fame, ease,
even Love itself, for Thought, and by Thought had overtopped
many who had started on the race for glory long ere my soul
had wakened to a consciousness of itself--which means Power.
In life I had, so it seemed, builded stronger than I thought,
and had reached a mental eminence-occupied a throne. so
lofty-that mankind wondered, stood aloof, and gazed at me
from afar off; and by reason of my thought had gathered
from me, and thus condemned the Thinker to an utter soli-
tude, even in the most thronged and busy haunts of men;,
and I walked through earth's most crowded cities more lonely
than the hermit of the desert, whose eyes are never gladdened
by the sight of human form, and through the chambers of
whose brain no human- voice goes ringing. Thus was it on
earth ; and now that I had quitted it forever, with undaunted
soul, strong purpose, and fearless tread, assured of an endless
immortality, and had entered upon the life of Thinking, still
was I alone. Had my life, my thinking, and my action on
thought been failures? The contemplation of such a possi-
bility was bitter, very bitter-:--even like unto painful death--

and yet it seemed true that failure had been mine--failure,
notwithstanding men by thousands spoke well of me and of
my works-the children of my thought-and bought my
books in thousands. Failure ?  My soul rejected the idea in
utter loathing. For a moment the social spirit, the heart-
ness of my nature -over-shadowed Reason, and caused me to
forget that, even though confined by dungeon walls, stricken
with poverty, deformity, sin or disease-even though left out
to freeze in the-cold world's spite-yet the thinker is ever the
world's true- and only King. I .had become, for a moment,
oblivious of the fact that failure was an impossibility. Rosi-
crucians never fail!
" But now, as I slowly moved along, I felt my human
nature was at war with the God-nature within, and that Heart
for :a while was holding the Head in duress. I longed for re-
lease from Solitude; my humanity yearned for association,
and would have there, on the breast of the great Eterne; given
worlds for the company of the lowliest soul I had ever beheld--
and despised, as I walked the streets of the cities of the far-off
earth. I yearned for human society and -afection, and could
even have found blissful solace with-a dogi just such a dog as,
in times past, I had scornfully kicked in Cafro axnd Stambol-
Even a dog was denied me now-all affection withheld from
me--and in the terrible presence of its absence I longed for
death, forgetting again that Soul can never die. I longd
for that deeper extinguishment which should sweep the soul
from being, and crown it with limitleseeternal Night-=oi-

8            THE R06ICRUCIA.N'S STORY.


10

Ta1 -ROSIORUCIAN'S STORY.

getful, again, that the Memories of Soul must live, though
the rememberer cease to be, and that hence Horrors would
echo through the universe--children mourning for their sui-
cidal parent, and that parent myself !  -
" And I lay me down beneath a tree in despair.-a tree
which stood out all alone from its fellows. in a grove hard by
--a tree all ragged and lightning-scathed--an awful monu-
ment, mute, yet eloquently proclaiming to the wondering on-
looker that God had passed that way, in fierce, deific wrath,
once upon a time, in the dead ages, whose ashes now bestrewed
the floors of the mighty temple of Eterne.
"It was dreadful, very dreadful, to be all alone. True, the
pangs of hunger, the tortures of thirst, the fires of ambition,
and the raging flames of earthly passion no longer marred my
peace. Pain, such as mortals feel, was unknown ; no disease
racked my frame, or disturbed the serenity of my external
being-for I was immortal, and could laugh all these and
Death itself to scorn ; and yeta keener anguish, a more fear-
ful suffering, was mine. I wept, and my cries gave back no
outer sound, but they rang in sombre echoes through the
mighty arches, the bottomless caverns, the abyssmal deeps of
Soul-my soul-racking it with torments such as only think-
ing things can feel. Such is the lot, such the discipline of
the destined citizens of the Farther Empyrean-a region
known only to the Brethren of the Temple of Peerless
Rosicrucia !
" Sleep came-sweet sleep--deep and strange; and in it I

WHY MAN FAILS.

11"

dreamed. Methought I still wandered gloomily beneath the
vast arches of the grand old hall, until at last, after countless
cycles of ripe years had been gathered back into the treasury
of the .Etre Supreme, I stood before a solid, massive door,
which an inscription thereabove announced as being the en-
trance to the Garden of the Beatitudes. This door was
secured by a thousand locks, besides one larger'than all the
rest combined. Every one of these locks might be opened,
but the opener could not pass through unless he unfastened
the master-lock having ten thousand bolts and wards.
"Once more despair seized on my soul, in this dream which
was not all a dream ; for to achieve an entrance through the
gate without the master-key was a task, so said the inscrip-
tion, that would defy the labors of human armies for periods
of time utterly defying man's comprehension-so many were
the difficulties, so vastly strong the bolts.
"Sadly, mournfully, I turned away, when, as if by chance
-forgetting that there is no such thing as Chance-my eye
encountered a rivetless space upon the solid brazen door-a
circular 'space, around the periphery of which was an inscrip-
tion running thus : ' MAN ONLY FAILS THROUGH FEEBLE-
NESS OF WILL 1' Within this smooth circle was the
semblance of a golden triangle, embracing a crystalline
globe, winged and beautiful, crowned with a Rosicrucian
cypher, while beneath it stood out, in fiery characters, the
single word, 'Tay ' The very instant I caught the magic
significance of these divine inscriptions, a new Hope was be-
gotten in my soul ; Despair fled from me, and I passed into

I

I

r

s


THE SECRET OF GREATNESS.

"A DREAM WITHIN A DREAM.
" What a change ! During my slumber it seemed that I
had been transported to the summit of a very lofty ujountain,
yet still within the Temple. By my side stood an Iged and
saintly man, of regal and majestic presence. He was clad in
an oriental garb of the long-gone ages, and his flowing robes
were bound to his waist by a golden band, wrought into the
similitude of a shining serpent-the sacred emblem of eternal
wisdom. Around his broad and lofty brow was a coronet
of silver, dusted with spicule of finest diamond.    On the
sides of the centre were two scarabei, the symbol of immor-
tality ; and between them was a pyramid, on which was in-
scribed a mystical character which told, at the same time,
that his name was Ram us the Great.*
3'This royal personage spake kindly to me, and his soft
tones fell upon the hearing of my soul like the words of par-
don to the sense of sinners at the Judgment Seat.    'Look,
my son,' said he, at the same time pointing toward a vast
procession of .he newly-risen dead-a spectral army on the
sides of the mountain, slowly, steadily, mournfully wending
their way toward the part of the temple I had quitted pre-
vious to the commencement of this dream within a dream.
Said the man at my side: 'Yonder host of pilgrims are
* The same known historically as Thothmes, or Thotmor the Third, King of all
Egypt, in the 18th dynasty, and sixty-ninth Chief or Grand Master of the Superla-
tive Order ofGebel Al Maruk-since known, in Christian lands, as the Order of the
Brethren of the Rosie Cross, and now known in America and Europe, where it still
thrives, as the Imperial Order of Rosicrucia.

12

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

13

men and women who are seeking, as thou hast sought, to
unbar the Gates of Glory, that they may pass through them
into the delightful Garden of the Beatitudes. It is one
thing to be endowed with Intellectual Strength, Knowledge
and Immortality ; it is another to be Wise and Happy. The
first is a boon granted to all the children of earth alike ; the'
last can only be attained by integral development-by self-
endeavor, by innate goodness and God-ness continually man-
ifested-and this in material and aromal worlds alike. Man
is man and woman is woman, wherever they may be ! The
true way to the garden lies not through Manifestation Cor-
ridor, but through the Hall of Silence ! and each Aspirant
must open the door for himself alone. Failing to enter, as
thou hast failed, each must turn back, and, like thee, come
hither to Mount Retrospect, and entering into the labyrinths
within its sides, must search for the triple key, which alone
can unbar the Gate, and admit to the Beautiful Garden I
Remember ! Despair not ! Try!I' and in an instant the
Phantom-man turned from me, and with outstretched arms,
and benignance beaming from every feature, hied him toward
the ascending army.
"Again I stood alone, not now in despondency and
gloom, but in all the serene strength of noble," conscious
Manhood-not the. actual, but the certain and glorious pos-
sibility thereof. My soul had grown. It was aware of all
its past short-comings, failures, and its hatreds toward two
men who had done me deadly wrong. This feeling still sur-
vived-stronger than ever, now that I was across the Bridge

z

14


14

THE ROSIORUCIAN S STORY.

of Hours, and had become a citizen of the inner land-a
wanderer through Eternity. That hate was as immortal as
my deathless soul. Will it ever be ?  And yet I had ever
meant well. All was calm in my spirit, save this single aw-
ful thing. In this spirit, with this consciousness-not of
deep malignance, but of outraged Justice-I began to look
for the mysterious key ; and as I looked, an instinct-told me
that the key must consist of certain grand human virtues,
and corresponding good deeds, held and done before I left
the shores of time and embarked upon the strange and mys-
tic sea whereon my soul's fortunes were now cast.
" And so I searched, and at last seemed to have found
what I sought ; and thereupon I wished myself once more
before the brazen Gate. Instantly, as if by magic, the wish
was realized, and I~ stood before .it, on the same spot for-
merly occupied. The first inscription, the symbols and circle
had disappeared, and in their stead was another circle, con-
taining these lines : 'Speak, for thou shalt ,be heard ! Tell
what thou hast done to elevate thy fellow men, and to round
out the angles of thine own soul. Whom hast thou up-
lifted, loved, hated? Speak, and when the words containing
the key are spoken, the door will yield, and thou mayest pass
the Threshold.'-
" The writing slowly faded, and left naught but a surface,
but that surface as of molten gold. I spoke aloud my claim
to entrance, and, to my astonishment,' my voice rang out
shrill and clear, through the vaults and arches of the mighty
dome towering far above my head. 'I have suffered from

" TRY !"

315

infancy-been opposed from the cradle to maturity-been
hated, robbed, slandered on all sides, yet pushed forward in
defiance of all, until I reached all that I desired-all that
earth could give me. Self-educated, I achieved. triumphs
where others failed ; have reaped laurels and grasped the
keys of fame, and laughed at my folly afterwards, because
what is fame ? A canker, gnawing out one's life when liiing,
disturbing his repose when dead-not worth a straw! lBut,
in all this, despite the ending, I have set an example, by fol-
lowing which man might elevate himself, society be improved,
and its constituents realize the bliss of moving in loftier
spheres  f usefulness!' While giving voice to these truths, I
firmly expected to see the gate fly open at their conclusion.
But what was my horror and dismay to see that it moved not
at all, while the echoes of my speech gave back in frightfully
resonant waves of sound the last word, 'USEFULNESS!'
"Not being able to think of any nobler achievements, I
cast my eyes groundward, and, on again raising them, I be.
held, across the clear space on the door, the single word,
" Taking heart again, I said, 'Alone I sought the secret
of restoring health to the sick, and gave it freely to the world,
without money, without price. I have made grand efforts to
banish sloth, sin, ignorance; have ever upheld the honor of
the Cross, and the sweet religion it symbolizes. Striving ever
to upraise the veil that hides man from himself, in the effort
I have been misapprehended, my motives impugned, and my
reward has been poverty, slander, disgrace. In the strife, I
12

r1

f         ,r
F
j     -
4
Z 1
S
S
1
. ;         ]]]t{f
y          R4
S f{
'M
1
.y
IT
{
.S
'i
i
t
t
i
.f
1
1
3
t
a
F
1         i
i     _


THE ROSIQRvOIAN'S STORY.

have been heedless to every"call save that of human duty,
and, in obeying the behests of a nobler destiny, have been re-
gardless of all worldly distinction; have ignored wealth,
fame, honorable place in the world's esteem, and even been
deaf to the calls of love!1'
"I ceased, and again the vault threw back my last word,
and all the arches echoed 'LOVE!'
The gate moved not, but once more appeared upon the
golden lozenge on the door the word 'TRY!' in greater
brightness than before, while it seemed to the hearing sense
of my spirit' that a thousand velvet whispers--ow, so low,
gently cadenced back 'LOVE!'
"'I have rebuked the immoral, humbled the lofty and
overbearing, exposed deception, comforted the mourner, re-
deemed the harlot, reformed the thief, fed the orphan and
upheld the rights and dignity of Labor!1'
"Still the door moved not, but again the echoes gave back
the last word, 'LABOR 1'
"'I have preached immortality to thousands, and prevailed
on them to believe it ; have written of, and everywhere pro-
clained its mighty truths. I have beaten the sceptic, con-
armed the wavering, reassured the doubting, and through
long and bitter years, in both hemispheres of the globe, have
declared that if a man die, he shall live again; thus endeavor-.
Mig to overthrow error, establish truth, banish superstition,
and on their ruins lay the deep and broad foundations of a
better faith I'
"4A if a myriad voices chilned out my last syllable, there

i

tO

;

rang through the spacious halls and corridors of the Temple,
the sublime word, 'FArrm 1' and instantly the bolts appeared
.to move within their iron wards. Continuing, I said: 'I
have ever endeavored, save in one single instance, to foster,
and in all cases have a spirit of forgiveness.'
"This time there was no mistake. The thousand bolts
flew back, the ponderous brazen gate moved forward and
back, like- a vast curtain, as if swayed by a gentle wind ;
while a million silvery voices sang gloriously, 'IN ALL CASES
HAVE A SPIRIT OF FORGIVENESS I'
"Joyously I tried again, intuition plainly telling me that
only one thing more was necessary to end my lonely pilgrim-
age, and exalt me to the blessed companionship of the dear
ones whom I so longed to join in their glory-walks adown the
celestial glades and vistas of God's Garden of the Beatitudes.
I spoke again :
"' I have fallen from man's esteem in pursuance of what
appeared to be my duty. A new faith sprung up in the land,
and unwise zealots brought shame and bitter reproach against
and upon it. Lured by false reasoning, I yielded to the
fascinations of a specious sophistry, and for awhile my soul
languished under the iron bondage of a powerful and glitter-
ing falsehood. At length, seeing my errors, I strove to cor-
rect them, and to sift the chaff from the'true and solid grain;
bt the people refused to believe me honest, and did not,
would not understand me ; but they insisted that in denounc-
ing Error, I ignored the living truths of God's great
economy; yet still I labored on, trying t correct ny faults,

THE BEST CREED.

17

}t
1
T
,5
y   S
I-  }
l
t
k
1    S
'3
'  a'
i   ;f
t   i
a   3
_   l
9
C
;
f   y
Y
}  :
r
-
i
eA
a  _
;
s '
a
F
a s
', 1
r.
=
.
=mot
,,!
./
!
Y
i
. y
i
f+
f
i
s
4
t
i
3
f

F
F
,
S
si


k
}
'          t
1
i
E                           a
1
t                              g
{
i
f
i                          ,
{
s
i
i                              .
jj
5
1
tj
3
i
'                             i
j,
II                              S
f                               t
1                               j
(                               {
"
i
,f
'r

and to cultivate - the queen of human virtues, Charity !
Scarcely had this last word escaped my' lips, than the mas-
sive portals flew wide open, disclosing to my enraptured gaze
such a sight of supernal and celestial beauty, grandeur, and
magnificence, as human language is totally inadequate to
describe ; for it was such, as it stood there revealed before
my ravished soul ; and I may not here reveal the wondrous
things I saw and heard. . . . Lara, Lara, iby beautiful
one, the dear dead maiden of the long agone, stood before
me, just within the lines of Paradise. She loved me still-.-
aye, the dear maiden of my youth had not forgotten the
lover of her early and her earthly days..-.
"'When I was a boy, and she was a girl,
In the city by the sea,'
ere the cruel Death had snatched her from my arms and
love, a long, long time ago ; for the love of the Indian, as
his hatred, survives the grave. . . And she said, 'Paschal,
my beloved-lone student of the weary world--I await thy
entrance here. But thou mayest not enter now, because no
hatred can live inside these gates of Bliss. Wear it out,
discard it. Thou art yet incomplete, thy work is still un-
finished. Thou hast found the keys ! Go back to earth,
and give them to thy fellow-men. Teach, first thyself, and
then thy brethren, that Usefulness, Love, Labor, Forgive-
ness, Faith and Charity, are the only keys which are potent
to cure all ill, and unbar the Gates of Glory.'
"'Lara !   Beautiful Lara, I obey thee !  Wait for me,

THE R2OSItORUCIANS STORY.

18

love. I am coming soon!1' I cried, as she slowly retreated,
and the gate closed again. 'Not yet, not yet,' I cried, as
with extended arms I implored the beauteous vision to
remain-but a single instant longer.. But she was gone. I
fell to the ground in a swoon. When I awoke again, I
found the night had grown two hours older than it was
when I sat down in the chair in my little chamber in Bush
street, the little chamber which I occupied in the goodly city
of the Golden Gate."
Thus spake the Rosicrucian. We were all deeply moved
at the recital, and one after the other we retired to our
rooms, pondering on the story and its splendid moral. Next
day we reached Acapulco, and not till we had left and were
far on our way toward Panama, did we have an opportunity
of listening to the sermon to the eloquent text I have just
recounted.
At length he gave it, as nearly as it can possibly be repro-
duced, in the following words :

19

END OF THE PROEM

"         r
S
j
t
It
f
Z
'  e
Tx
{
4        j
5
K
ti
4
'a-
i; ,
Yk
1.
k
iH
4
1


A MARRIED MANS MONOLOGUE.

PART II.

THE DOUBLE DREAM.
.--." and saw within the moonlight of his room---.
An angel, writing in a book of gold."-LIG a HUNT.
" AND so you like the text, do you? Very well, I will now
see how much better you will be pleased with the sermon.
Listen:
"'I cannot and will not stand this any longer. Here am
I, yet a young man-in the very prime and heyday of life,
and I do believe that I shall be a regular corpse in less than
no time, if a change for the better don't very soon take place
in my family ; that's just as certain as "open and shut."
She, ah, she, is killing me by inches-the vampire ! Would
that I had been thirty-five million of miles the other side of
nowhere the day I married her. Don't I though, Betsey-..
Betsey Clark is killing me ! No love, no kindness, not a soft
look, never a gentle smile. Oh, don't I wish somebody's fune-
ral was over ; but not mine ; for I feel quite capable of lov-
ing, of being happy yet, and of making somebody's daughter
happy likewise. People may well say that marriage is a lot.
tery-a great lottery ; for, if there's one thing surer than an-2
20

other, then it is perfectly certain that I have drawn the very
tallest kind of a blank ; and hang me, if it wasn't for the
disgrace of the thing, if I wouldn't run off and hitch myself
for life to one of the Hottentots I have read about ; for any-
thing would be better than this misery, long strung out. Oh,
don't I wish I was a Turk ! When a fellow's a Turk he can
have ever so many wives-and strangle all of 'em that don't
suit him or come to Taw--as they ought to. Bully for the
Turks I I wish I knew how to turn myself into one. .If I
did, I'd be the biggest kind of a Mohammedan afore
mornin'!I
" Such was the substance of about the thousandth soliloquy
on the same subject, to the same purport, delivered by Mr
Thomas W. Clark, during the last seven years of his wedded
life.
" The gentleman named delivered himself of the contented
and philanthropic speech just recited, on the morning of a
fine day, just after the usual morning meal-and quarrel with
his-.wife, de jur--female attendant would better express
the relation defacto. Mr. Clark was not yet. aware that a
woman is ever just what her husband's conduct makes her-
a thing that some husbands besides himself have yet to learn.
" Every day this couple's food was seasoned with sundry
and divers sorts of condiments other than those in the castor.
There was a great deal of pickle from his side of the gay and
festive board, in the shape of jealous, spiteful innuendoes ; and
from her side much delicate sauce piquante, in the form of'
sweet allusions to a, former husband, whom she declared to

ii


:    3

22

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

have been 'the very best husband that was ever sent to'-
a premature grave by a vixen-she might have added, truth-
fully, but did not, finishing the sentence with, 'to be loved
by a tender, gentle wife'--like her ! The lady had gotten
bravely over all her amiable weaknesses long ago. Gentle 1
what are tigresses ? Tender I what is a virago ? So far the
man. Now for his mate.
"Scarcely had her lord-' Mr. Thomas W.,' as she was
wont to call him-gone out of the house, and slammed the
door behind him, at the same time giving vent to the last
bottleful of spleen distilled and concocted in his soul, than
'Mrs. Thomas W.,' or poor Betsey Clark, as I prefer to call
her-for she was truly, really pitiable, for more reasons than
one, but mainly because she had common sense and would
not exercise it sufficiently to make the best of a bad bargain
--threw herself upon the bed, where she cried a little, and
raved a good deal, to the self-same tune as of yore.. Getting
tired of both these delightful occupations very soon, she va-
ried them by striking an attitude before a portrait of the dear
defunct--badly executed--the portrait, not the man--whose
name she bore when she became Mistress Thomas W. This
picture of a former husband Tom Clark had not had courage
or sense enough to put his foot through, but did have bad
taste sufficient to permit to hang up in the very room where
he lived and ate, and where its beauties were duly and daily
expatiated upon, and the virtues of its original lauded to the,
skies, of course to the intense delight of Mr. Clark.
" Madam had a tongue--a regular patent,venom-mounted,

" WEDLOCK IS A TICKLISH THING.'

23

back-spring and double-actioned tongue, and, what is more,
knew well how to use it when the fit was on, which, to do
her justice, was not more than twenty-three hours and a half
each day. Never did an opportunity offer that she did not
avail herself of to amplify the merits. of the" deceased, espe-
cially in presence of such visitors as chance or business
brought to their house, all to the especial delectation of her
living spouse, Mr. Thomas W. Clark.
"Just look at her now ! There she is, kneeling at her
shrine, my lady gay, vehemently pouring forth the recital of
her wrongs--forgetful of any one else's, as usual with the
genus grumbler-dropping tears and maledictions, now on
her own folly, then on the devoted head of him she had pro-
mised to love, honor, and obey, Mr. Clark, fruit-grower, far-
mer, and horse-dealer. Exhausted at length, she winds up
the dramatic scene by invoking all the blessings of all the
saints in all the calendars on the soul of him whose counter-
feit presentment hangs there upon the wall.
"If this couple did not absolutely hate each other, they
came so near it that a Philadelphia lawyer would have been
puzzled to tell t'other from which, and yet nobody but them-
selves had the least idea of the real state of things-those
under-currents of married life that only occasionally breach
through and extensively display themselves in the presence
of third parties. In the very nature of the case, how absurd
it is for outsiders to presume to know the real status of
affairs--to comprehend the actual facts which exist behind
the curtains of every or any married couple in the land.
12*

f
i
7,
'       i
f
V!
s
5       7
5      f
b
{f
f
V       ii
7A     i
f
i
i
tip
f 1i.                  -

L)


If
I

THE -RO O0EUCIAN'S. 8TOAT*.

Hymen is a fellow fond of wearing all sorts of masks and dise
guises ; and it often happens that tons of salt exist where peo.
pie suppose nothing but sugar and lollypops are to be found.
"Tom and his wife-the latter, especially-pretended to a
vast deal of loving-kindness-oh, how great-toward each
other--and they were wise-in the presence of other people.
You would have thought, had you seen them billing and
cooing like a pair of 'Turkle Doves'-to quote the 'Bard
?" of Baldwinsville'--that there never was so true, so perfect a
union as their own ; and would not have entertained the
shadow of a doubt but that they had been expressly formed
for each other from the foundations of the world, if not be-
fore. No sooner did they meet--before folks, even after the
most trifling absence-than they mutually fell to kissing and
'dearing,' like two swains just mated, all of which made
fools wonder, but wise people to grieve. Physical manifesta-
tions are not quite Love's methods ; and it is a safe rule that
those who most ape love externally, have less of it within--
and in private, so great a difference is there between Behind
and Before, in these matters of the heart. Billing and cool-
ing before folks acts as a nauseant upon sensible men and
women, and in this case it did upon a few of the better
class of the city of Santa Blarneeo, within a few miles of
which Clark lived.
"Betsey Clark. gave a last, long, lingering look at the por-
trait, saying: the while: 'Don't I wish you were alive and
back here again, my love, my darling, my precious duck?
Lucky for him was It that such could not be ; for had it been

THE WATCHFUL ANGEL.

25

possible, and actualized, he would have been finely plucked,
not to say roasted, stewed, perpetually broiled, and in every
way done brown. 'If you were here, I should be happy,
because you was a man ; but this one (meaning Tom), bah!'
and the lady bounced upon her feet and kicked'the cat by
way of emphasis. She resumed : 'I can't stand it, and I
won't, there! that's flat ! I'm still young, and people of sense
tell me I am handsome-at least, good-looking. I'm certain
the glass does, and no doubt there are plenty who would
gladly link their lot with mine if he was only dead!' And
she shuddere as the fearful thought had birth. 'Dead ! I
wish he was ; and true as I live, I've a great good mind to
accomplish my wish !' And again she shuddered.   Poor
woman, she was indeed tempted of the devil ! As the hor-
rible suggestion flashed across the sea of her soul, it illumin'
ed many a deep chasmal abyss, of whose existence, up to
that moment she had been utterly unaware.
"The human soul is a fearful thing, especially when it
stands bare before the Eternal Eye, with myriad snake-
forms--its own abnormal creation, writhing round and near
it. A fearful thing ! And Betsey Clark trembled in the
ghastly presence of Uncommitted Murder, whose glance of
lurid flame set fire to her heart, and scorched and seared it
with consuming heat.  Its flashful light lasted but for a mo-
ment ; but even that was a world too long, for it illumined
all the dark caverns of her soul, and disclosed to the horri-
fled gaze of an aerial being which that instant chanced
to pass that way-an abyssmal deep of Crime-possibility,

24


i

THE ROSICRUCIAN7S STORY.

so dense, black and terrible, that it almost shrivelled the
eyeballs and shrouded the vision of the peerless citizen of
the upper courts of Glory.
"Suddenly the radiant Heaven-born ceased its flight through
the azure, looked pityingly earth and heaven-ward, heaved a
deep and soul-drawn sigh, and stayed awhile to gaze upon
the Woman and the Man. Long it gazed, at first in sorrow,
but presently a smile passed across its face, as if a new and
good thought had struck it, and then it darted off into space,
as if intent upon discovering a cure for the desperate state
of things just witnessed. 'Did it succeed ?' 'Wait awhile
and see.
"Human nature is a very curious and remarkable institution;
so is woman nature, only a great deal more so-especially
that of the California persuasion. Still it was not a little
singular that Tom's wife's mind should have engendered (of
Hate and Impatience) the precise thought that agitated his
own at that very minute-that very identical crime-thought
which had just rushed into being from the deeps of his own
spirit-twin monsters, sibilating 'Murder !' in both their ears.
" There is as close a sympathy between opposites and anta-
gonists, indeed far greater, than between similarities-as
strong attractions between opposing souls as in those fash-
ioned in the same mould. True, this affirmation antago-
nizes many notions among current philosophies and philoso-
phers ; but it is true, notwithstanding, and therefore so much
the worse for the philosophers.
" The same fearful thought troubled two souls at the same

HEPER.

21t

time, and each determined to do a little private killing on
their own individual and separate accounts. As yet, how-
ever, - only the intent existed. The plans were yet crude,
vague, immature, and only the crime loomed up indistinctly,
like a grim, black mountain through a wintry fog.
" The day grew older by twelve hours, but when the sun-
set came, ten years had fastened themselves upon the brows
of both the Woman and the Man since last they had parted
at rosy morn.
Bad thoughts are famous for making men grow old before
the weight of years has borne them earthward. They wrin-
kle the brow and bring on decrepitude, senility and grey
hairs faster than Time himself can possibly whirl bodies grave-
ward. The rolling hours and the circling years are less swift
than evil thoughts of evil doing. Right doing, innocence,
and well-wishing make us young ; bad thoughts rob us of
youth, vivacity, and manhood ! Let us turn to Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas W.:
"'Night was on the mountain,
Darkness in the valley,
And only stars could guide them now
In the doubtful rally.'
" There was a star hung out in the sky, and she had already
determined to watch their destinies ; with what success, and
in what manner, will be apparent before finishing my story,
every word of which is true in one sense, if not precisely i
another.

26

S
'
f
7
}]i1
f
_
Sa
4     f
}      t
R

t
'S
f          1t
}
r
4     {
i
I


28

THE ROSICRUOLAJIs' STORY.

The sun had set, and slowly the moon was uprising--
blessed moon ! God's Left Eye, wherewith He at night over,
looketh the thoughts and deeds of solitary men and solitary
women-for only such are capable of crime-those only who.
are, and live alone-and many such there be, even at their
own firesides, surrounded by their own families, own flesh,
own blood-fathers, mothers, wives (as times go), husbands
(as they are conventionally called). Many there be who exist
in dreadful solitudes in the very midst of human crowds-Who
live alone and pass through life, from the cradle to the grave,
perfect strangers, perfect hermits, wholly unknowing, totally
unknown, like interlopers on the globe, whose very right to
be here all the world disputes. Friends, I have seen many
such-have you?    These lonely people, these exotics, these
insulars in the busy haunts of men--the teeming hives of
commerce-alone in earth's well-paced market-towns-in the
very saturnalia- of TRADE'S gala days ; and they are to be
pitied, because they all have human, yearning hearts, filled
to the brim with great. strangling sorrows ; and they have
high and holy aspirations, only that the world chokes them
down-crushes out the pure, sweet life God gave them.
These are the Unloved ones; yet ought not to be, for are
they not somebody's sons and daughters ? Yes ! Then they
have rights ; and the first, greatest, highest right of all is the
right of being loved-loved by the people of the land-our
world-cousins, for what we do, are doing, or have done:; and
to be loved, for the sake of the dear soul within, by somebody
else's son or daughter.

(I

WHAT WE ALL DEMA'D.9;
" So think we of the Rosicrucian Order; so, one day, will
think the world."
At this point of the Rosicrucian's narrative, Captai
Jones, one of his auditory, interrupted him with :
" Why, I thought the Rosicrucian system had been dead.
buried, and forgotten two centuries ago."
He replied : " The false or pseudo-Rosicrucian system has
ceased to be. Truth herself is deathless. I cannot now stop
to explain what interests you concerning the revived system
of Rosicrucianism. You will now please to allow me to pr9-
ceed with my story," said he, and then resumed, saying:
" I repeat that only those who live alone, unloved, un-
loving, are they who, becoming morbid, having all their kindly
feelings driven back upon themselves, daily, hourly eating up
their own hearts-brooding over their wrongs, their social
and other misfortunes--at length engender crime, if not
against their fellow-men, then against themselves.
S" Oh, for something to love, and be loved by, if but a lit-
tle pet dog ! The unloved ever are wrecked, the unloving
ever wreck others. It is sweet to be loved by even a dumb
brute ! But, ah, how inexpressibly, how infinitely better to
be endeared for yourself alone [-for your integral wealth of
soul--by a Man, a full, true Man; by a Woman, a full, gush-
ing-hearted Woman; or, sweeter, dearer still, a child-some
glorious hero of- a hobby-horse, some kitten-torturing Coral
A.h, what a chord to touch ! I am very fond of children-
dear little Godlings of the Ages. Those who reciprocate af-
fection truly, are too full of God to keep a devil's lodgiu

t
r
E
s
i
A
j
t
j
LS
E  1
l
tit


30

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

I;
t  s i

IT IS VERY TRUE

81

i
i
k
i
t
i,
c'
3
}
f
P
C .
t(
t
f
Y
l

I

house. It is a dear thing to feel the great truth-one of
Rosicrucia's truths-that nothing is more certain than that
somewhere, perhaps on earth, perhaps in some one of the in-
numerable aromal worlds-star-spangles on God's diadem-
or from amidst the mournful monodies in material creation--
some one loves us ; and that there= goeth up a prayer, sweet.
toned as seraph-harps, to Him for you, my weary brother,
for you, my sister of the dark locks turning prematurely
grey ; for all of us whose paths through life have been
thickly strewn with thorns and rocks, sharp boulders and
deep and frightful pit-falls-great threatening, yawning gulfs :
"' Oh, the little birds sing east, and the little birds sing west,
Toll slowly.
And I smile to think God's greatness flows around our incompleteness,
Round our restlessness His rest.'
"Somebody loves us for ourselves' sake.   Thank God
for that!
"And the pale, silver shield of the moon hangs out in the
radiant blue, and myriad gods look down, through starry
eyes, upon this little world, as it floats, a tiny bubble, on
Space's vast ocean ; and they speak through their eyes, and
bid us all love the Supreme, by loving one another ; and
they say, 'Love much !   Such is the whole duty of man'
The moon, God's night-eye, takes note of all ye do, and is
sometimes forced to withdraw behind cloud-veils, that ye
may not behold her sweet features while she weeps at the
sad spectacle of thy wrong doing!1 Luna, gentle Luna,

i
S
F
i
1
f
t
.i
s
t
t
i
c
s
x
r               i
3
t
c
f'
F
F              '
4
k
f
3
t
h'
l
1
';       e
k

dote not like to peer down into human souls, and there be-
hold the slimy badness, which will ere long breed deeds of
horror to make her lovely face more -pale-things which dis-
figure the gardens of man's spirit, and transform them into
tangled brakes, where only weeds and unsightly things do
grow. And Luna has a recording angel sitting on her
shield, whose duty is to flash all intelligence up to His deific
brain, in whose service she hath ever been. He is just, in-
exorably just, ever rewarding as man sinneth or obeys.
And so it is poor policy to sin by night. It is equally so
to sin by day ; for then the Sun--God's Right Eye-fails
not to behold you, for he is always shining, and his rays
pierce the clouds and light up the world, even though thick
fogs and dense vapors conceal his radiant countenance from
some. He sees man, though man beholds him not ; and he
photographs all human thoughts and deeds upon the very
substance of thesoul, and that, too, so well and deeply, that
nothing will destroy the picture ; no sophistical 'All Right'
lavements can wash it away, no philosophic bath destroy it.
They are indelible, these sun-pictures on the spirit, and they
are, some of them, very unsightly things to hang in the
grand Memory-Galleries of the imperishable human soul ;
for, in the coning epochs of existence, as-man moves' down
the corridors of Time, these pictures will still hang upon the
walls, and if evil, will peer down sadly and reproachfully,
and fright many a joy away, when man would fain be rid,,
but cannot, of pain-provoking recollections, when his body
shall be stranded on the shores of the grave, and his spirit is

I

6
e


,
-
-5
i
i
k
7
I  r
c
E  i 1

ACCIDENTT!"               33

THE ROSIORUTCIAN'S STORY.
being wafted over strange and mystic seas on the farther
brink of Time !
" Night had come down, and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. re-
tired to bed, each with thoughts of murder rankling in their
hearts. Not a word was spoken, but they lay with throb-
bing pulses, gazing out upon the night, through a little win-
dow at the foot of the bed, whose upper sash was down-
gazing out upon the starry lamps that skirt the highways of
the sky, beacons of safety placed there to recall and guide
all stray and wandering souls back on their way to Heaven 1I
and they silently looked at the stars as they twinkled and
shimmered in the azure.
" The stars shone; and strange, horrible, ghastly thoughts
agitated the woman and the man. 'Tom might get sick, and
he might die ! Isn't it possible to feed him with a little ar-
senic, or some other sort of poison, and not get caught at it ?
I think it is. He, once dead, I shall be. free-free as the
air, and happy as the birds I' Happy ! Think of it!-
Is it not possible to push Betsey over the cliff, accident-
ally, of course, and thus rid myself of her and misery to-
gether, and forever 1' Forever ! Picture it ! And thus
they lay as the night wore on, two precious immortal souls,.
with rank Murder for a bed-fellow.
"At the end of an hour's cogitation, both had reached
the desperate resolution to carry their wishes into execution,
and attempt the fearful crime.

"'Come down in thy profoundest gloom-
Without one radiant firefly's light,
Beneath thine ebon arch entomb
Earth from the gaze of Heaven, 0 Night.
A deed of darkness must be done,
Put out the moon, roll back the sun.'
"Betsey was to 'season' Tom's coffee ; he was very fond
of coffee. Tom was to treat Betsey to a ride in a one-horse
shay, and topple the shay, horse, and 'Mrs. Thomas W.---
all except his mother's only son-over a most convenient and
inviting little precipice, a trifle over four hundred feet deep,
with boulders at the bottom rather thicker than autumn
leaves in Vallambrossa, and a good deal harder. All this
was to be the result of 'accident,' and 'inscrutible Provi-
dence,' as a matter of course. Afterwards he was to buy a
' slashing suit' of mourning, bury what was left of her in
grand style, erect a fine headstone of marble, announcing
that-
"'The Lord gave, and the Lord took away,
Blessed be the name of the Lord '
an inscription many a spouse would like to read in their own
cases !
" The proposed locality of the fall of woman 'luckily' lay
right on the road between their house and Santa Blarneeo.
Each thought, 'I may not be able to achieve the exploit
upon which I am bent, but one thing is certain, which is;
that it shall not fail for want of trying. Once fairly accom-

33


.

C' Y
F
{sY
R
{,

pushed, freedom comes, and then for a high old time I' So
thought the woman ; so thought the man.
"Night has various and strange influences, which are alto-
gether unknown to the day. The Magi, on the plains of
Chaldea, the astrologers of early Egypt, and the whole an-
cient world duly acknowledged the power of the astral
bodies. The whole interest of Bulwer's 'Zanoni' hinges on
the soul-expanding potentiality of a star upon Clarence
Glyndon, one of the heroes of that Rosicrucian story. In-
deed, the whole august fraternity, from the neophyte of last
week to Ross and Henri More, down to Appolonius of
Tyanoe, and away through the Ages to Thothmes, and down
beyond all the Egyptian dynasties to Zytos, and still away
into the very heart of the Pre-Adamite Eras, we know, held
strange doctrines concerning stars ; and if the historian of
the Order, the great Mirandolo, be not mistaken, our Bro-
therhood possesses the key that reveals the nature of the
starry influences, and how they may be gained.  Of my own
knowledge-for I am but in the fifth degree, therefore do
not know all these mysteries-there are Destinies in the
stars. Well, on this particular night, the star known as
Hesper, she of the pale mild eye, was looking straight into
the room where lay the precious pair, and it shone through
the little window at the foot of the bed. The night was
sultry-a little window-summer was in the ascendant-and ,1
the upper sash was down. Remember this, the upper sash
was down.
"And now a strange thing occurred, a very strange and

IT
1 c

fS  "
w
C
C
r
s
r
h
t
Y
3
1
t
1
Y
fI
I
S
Y
L
1

" THE UPPER SASH WAS DOWN "      35

35

34-

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

mysterious thing. Just as Tom Clark and his wife had been
magnetized into a sort of restless sleep from gazing at the
star-an uneasy, disturbed, nervous, but dreamless sleep--
as if a heavy, thick and murky cloud just floated off a stag-
nant' marsh, there descended upon- the house a pestilent,
slimy mist, and it gathered over and about the roof ; and it
entered, rolling heavily, into the chamber, coming through
that little window at the foot of the bed.
"It was a thick, dense, iron-greyish mist, approaching
blackness, only that there was a sort of turgid redness, not a
positive color, but as if it had floated over the depths of hell,
and caught a portion of its infernal luminosity. And it was
thick and dank, and dense and very heavy ; and it swept and
rolled, and poured into the room in thick, voluminous masses
-into the very room, and about the couch where tossed in
uneasy slumber the woman and the man. And it filled the
apartment, and hung like a pall about their couch ; and its
fetor oppressed their senses ; and it made their breath come
thick, and difficult, and wheezing from their lungs. It was
dreadful !  And their breath mingled with the strange
vapor, apparently endowing it with a kind of horrid life, a
sort of semi-sentience ; and gave it a very peculiar and fear-
ful movement-orderly, systematic, gyratory, pulsing move-
ment--the quick, sharp breath of the woman, the deep and
heavy breath of the man. And it had come through the
window at the foot of the bed, for the upper sash was down.
" Slowly, and with regular, spiracular, wavy motion, with'
gentle undulations, like the measured roll of the calm Pacific

'
3

1
r
i
s
11
i                 ,}
Lll
1
11111
j
t
t=
_"-


" IT WAS NEITHER BRUTE NOR HUMAN !"

Sea, the gentle sea on which I am sailing toward the Pyra,
mids and my Cora-six years old, and so pretty ! Pyramids
ten thousand years old, and so grandI Like the waves of
that sea did the cloud begin to move gyrally around the
chamber, hanging to the curtains, clinging to the walls, but
as if dreading the moonlight, carefully avoiding the window
through which it had come, the little window at the foot of
the bed-whose upper sash was down.
" Soon, very soon, the cloud commenced to change the
axis of its movement, and to condense into a large globe of
iron-hued nebule; and it began a contrary revolution; and
it floated thus, and swam like a dreadful destiny over the
unconscious sleepers on the bed, after which it moved to the
western side of the room, and became nearly stationary in an
angle of the wall, where for a while it stood or floated, silent,
appalling, almost motionless, changeless, still.
" At the end of about six minutes it moved again, and in
a very short time assumed the gross but unmistakable outline
of a gigantic human form-an outline horrible, black as night
-a frowning human form-cut not sharply from the vapor,
but still distinctly human in its shapeess-but very imperfect,
except the head, which was too frightfully complete to leave
even a lingering doubt but that some black and hideous
devilry was at work in that little chamber. And the head
was infamous, horrible, gorgonic ; and its glare was terrible,
infernal, blasting, ghastly-perfectly withering in its. expres-
sion, proportions and aspect.
" The THING, this pestilent thing was bearded with the

semblance of a tangled mass of coarse, grey iron wire. Its
hair was as a serried coil of thin, long, venom-laden, poison-
distilling snakes. The nose, mouth, chin and brows were
ghastly, and its sunken cheeks were those of Famine intensi-
fled. The face was flat and broad, its lips the lips of incar-
nate hate and lust combined. Its color was the greenish
blue of corpses on a summer battle-field, suffused with the
angry redness of a demon's spite, while its eyes-great God!
-its eye-for there was but one, and that one in the very
centre of its forehead, between the nose and brow-was
bloodshot and purple, gleaming with infernal light, and it
glamored down with more than fiendish malignance upon the
woman and the man.
"Nothing about this Thing was clearly cut or defined,
except the head-its hideous, horrible head. Otherwise it
was incomplete-a sort of spectral Formlessness. It was
unfinished, as was the awful crime-thought that had brought
it into being. It was on one side apparently a male, on the
other it looked like a female ; but, taken as a whole, it was
neither man nor woman, it was neither brute nor human, but
it was a monster and a ghoul-born on earth of human pa-
rents. There are many such things stalking our streets, and
invisibly presiding over festal scenes, in dark cellars, by the
lamp, in the cabinet and camp ; and many such are daily
peering down upon the white paper on the desks where sit
grave and solemn Ministers of State, who, for Ambition's
sake and greed of gold, play with an Empire's destiny as
cbildin do. with toys, and who, with the stroke of a pen,

,
f
f
'
1
#
E

1tQslopvro A S STORY.

368

3[

I
t=
f  ;
i
i


SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND DEAD MEN I 9

consign vast armies to bloody graves-brave men, glorious
hosts, kept back while victory is possible-kept back till the
foeman has dug their graves just in front of his own stone
walls and impenetrable ramparts-and then sent forward to
glut the ground with human blood. Do you hear me, Minis-
ters of State ? I mean you ! you who practically. regard
men's lives as boys regard the minnows of a brook. I mean
you who sit in high places, and do murder by the wholesale---
you who treat the men as half foes, half friends, tenderly;
men whose hands are griped with the iron grip of death
around the Nation's throat-the Nation's throat-do you
hear ?--and crushing out the life that God and our fathers
gave it. Remember Milliken's Bend, Port Hudson, Fort
Wagner, and the Black Heroes of the war-Noble men-
Black, too, but the bravest of the brave-yet treated not as
heroes ought to be. Forget not Fredericksburg ! and
bear in mind that this gorgon of your own creation will not
quit you, day or night-not even on your dying day, when it
will hiss into your ears, 'Father, behold, embrace me ?'--,
and its slime will fall upon and choke you, as you have
choked our country. And the sheeted ghosts of six hundred
thousand heroes, slaughtered by a whim, will mournfully up-
braid, and-perhaps-forgive you. Will the weeping widows
and the countless orphans--pale, blue-cast women, pale with
grief, blue with want ; orphans, poor little shrivelled, half-
starved orphans-will they forgive you ? will your own con-
science ? will the Eternal God of Heaven ?  Why did you
sacrifice these six hundred thousand men ?  Why did. you

not put your guns and swords in the hands of six hundred
thousand men-men who had God's best gifts to fight for
and maintain-Liberty and their wives ?  Black men, too-
brawny, brave, strong-hearted, Freedom-nerved, God-inspired
black men. No blade man yet ever sold his country ! Why
don't you first remove their disabilities here in the North'?
Why don't you bid them rise and be men? Why grudge
freemen the pay of other free men ; the bounty, the pension,
of other heroes of the same rank ? Do this, let the Negro
understand that you concede his manhood, and appreciate his
prowess ; let him once know that you are grateful for all he
does for the country, and proclaim it to the world, and Black
men will flock to your standard, not only from your own soil,
but from every spot on earth where civilized black men exist.
" See, yonder is a plain, miles in extent. In its centre
there stands an obelisk. Go, Ministers of State, and plant
on its top a banner, upon which shall be emblazoned this
magic sentence: 'Freedom--Personal, Political, and So-
cial, to the Black man-and protection of his Rights for-
ever,' and there will be more magnetic power in it than in
ten thousand Ministers, with their little whims ; ten thou-
sand 'Fancy Generals,' with their 'pretty little games,'-
and such would be History's record when she handed you
down the ages. If you would live in the sacred page, and
have your names shine brightly, act, act at once, cut the cords
that now bind the Black man. Say to him: 'Come as a
man, not as a chattel ! Come with me to Enfranchisement
and Victory!  Let us save the Nation !' and the swift-
13

y
4
E

38

THE i OSICRUCIAN'S STORY"

s9



,
'
.
i
i
iS
i
!}
}

41

4 TEN MINUTES AFTER."

winged winds will bear the sound from pole to pole, from sea
to sea, and from continent, island, and floating barks, from
hills, valleys, and mountains, from hut, hovel, and dismal
swamps, will come a vast and fearful host, in numbers like
unto the leaves of the forest ; and they will gather in that
plain around that obelisk, rallying around that banner, and
before their victorious march Rebellion will go down as brick
-    walls before the storm of iron ; and if. France, or England,
or Austria, or all, combine against them-they, too, will go
out of the battle, nevermore to enter it again.
" This is possible destiny ! Think of it, 0 Ministers of
State!
" And so the fearful spectre in Tom Clark's room had its
origin then and there-had been created by the morning's
wicked thought-a creature fashioned by their human wills,
and drawing its vitality from -their life and pulses-drawing
its very soul from out those two beating human hearts. Tell
me not that I am painting a picture, limning the creature of
a distorted fancy. I know better, you know better, we all
know that just such hideous creatures, just such monstrosi-
ties, move, viewless, daily, up and down the crowded streets
of Santa Blarneeo, up and down the streets of the Empire.
City and Puritanic Boston ; but there are crowds of them
in Pennsylvania Avenue, and they wear phantom epaulett.es
upon their spectral shoulders ! You and I know that just
such and other
" 'Monstrous, horrid things that creep
From out a slimy sea,'

exist all over the land-but principally in high places begot-
ten of Treason. and lust of Gold.
" Soon the lips began to move ; it spoke: 'Father ! mo-
ther ! I am yet weak ; be quick ; make me strong ! feed
me ; I am hungry ; give me blood-hot streams-great
gouts of blood ! It is well. Kill, poison, die ; it is well !
Ha ! ha ! It is well ; ho ! ho !' and then the Thing began to
dissolve into a filmy mist, until at last only the weight of its
presence was felt, for it floated invisibly but heavily through
the room, and, except the gleam-the fiery gleam of its soli-
tary eye-nothing else of it was discernible.
"Ten minutes elapsed after it had found voice, and faded
away, when suddenly a fleecy cloud that had for some time
past obscured the sky in the direction of Hesper, shutting
out her silvery smiles, broke away, and permitted her beams
and those of the moon to once more enter the chamber and
flood it with a sheeted silver glory-the room where still
lingered the hateful Thing, and where still slept the woman
and the man.
"Simultaneously with this auspicious event there came sigh-
ing over the landscape, the musical notes of such a song as
only seraphs sing-came over the wastes like the mystical
bells that I have heard at sunset often while sailing on the
Nile-mystical bells which thousands have heard and marvelled
at-soft bells, silvery bells, church bells-bells, however, not
rung by human hands. I have often heard them chiming over
Egypt's yellow arid sands, and I believe they are rung by
angel hands on the other side of Time. And such a sound,

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

40


THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

MYWIxrNNIR           43

only sweeter, came floating o'er the lea, and through the s l1
air into the little chamber. Was it a call to the angels to
join in prayer-midnight prayer, for the sinful souls of men ?
But it came. Low it was, and clear ; pure it was, and full
of saintly pity, like unto the dying cadence of the prayer that
was prayed by the Sufferer on the stony heights of Calvary ;
that same Calvary where I have stood within a year, 'midst
devout lovers of their Lord, and the jeering scoffs of Mussul-
mans ! And the music came-so sweetly, as if 'twould melt
the stony heart of Crime itself. And it proclaimed itself the
overture of another act of the eventful drama then and there
performing. And see I look there ! the curtain rises.
Woman, Man, behold ! Alas ! they slumber insensibly on.
Gaze steadily at that upper sash-above it-for it is down ;
see, the clear space is again obscured by a cloud ; but this
time it is one of silver, lined with burnished gold, and flecked.
and edged with amethyst and purple. Look again ! What
is that at the window?  It is a visible music-a glorious
sheet of silvery vapor, bright, clear, and glittering as an
angel's conscience'! It is a broad and glowing mantle of
woven gossamer, suffused with rose-blushes, and sprinkled
with star-beams ; and it flows through the space, and streams
into the chamber, bathing all things in holy tremulous light,.
soft, sweet, balmy, and pure as the tears of virgin innocence
weeping for the early dead ! That light ! It was just such a
light as beamed from your eyes, Woman-beamed from out
your soul, when,'after your agony, your eye first fell upon the
angel you had borne-the man-child whom God gave to your

y L

heart a little while ago ; just such a light as flashed fitfully
from your soul, and fell upon the cradle, 0 father of the strong
and hopeful heart, 'Wherein the little stranger lay;. just such
light as beamed from your eyes, in pride, and hope, and
strange, deep prophecies, as you- bent over her languishing
form, heartfully pressing her first-born to her dear woman's
bosom, when you looked so tenderly, kindly, lovingly down
through her eyes into her spirit-the true heart beating for
you and it, beneath folded-contentedly folded, arms-con-
tented, too, through all the deep anguish, such, 0 man, as only
a woman and a mother can undergo. That light ! It was
like that which fell upon the babe she had given you, and the
great Man-wanting world-given first for its coming uses, and
then to Him who- doeth all things very well--well, even when
He taketh the best part of our souls away, and transplants
the slips in His eternal and, infinite gardens, across the deep
dark gulfs that hide the dead ; just 'such a light as gleamed
from her eyes and thine own, when your hearts felt calm and
trustful once more, after the great, deep grief billows had
rolled over them-grief for the loss of one who stayed but a
little while on earth-all too coarse and rough for her-some
little, cooing Winnie-like mine-whose soul nestles afar off,
on His breast, in the blue sky, and whose body they laid in
the cold grave, there in Utica, after they-he-had let her
starve, perish Oadly for want of proper food and medicine,
while I was on the deep-winsome Winnie ! child of my soul,
gone, lost, but not forever !-just such a light played in that
little room as streams from angel eyes when God takes back

II

I
I

f
a
. J
3
Y
e
k
f
1
G
;S
R
L
i
TSg
d t
q
:i
jf
y
r,
t
t
I4Y
k      S
f
of
I
tt


THE ROSIORUAJNT'S -STORY.

at the hands of Azrael and Sandalphon, the beautiful angels
of Death and of Prayer, the things you had learned to love too
well-to forgetfulness of God and all true human duty. But
they will give back what they took : they will give back all,
more in the clear sunshine of a brighter and a purer day, than
these earthly ones of ours I
" And the light streamed through and into the cham-
ber where lay the woman and the man ; and it radiated
around, and bathed every' object in a crystalline lumin-
escence ; and it carried a sadness with it-just such a sad-
ness as we feel when parting from those who love us very
well ; as I felt on the day I parted from --, Brother of my
soul ! when we parted at the proud ship's side-the ocean
courser, destined to bear me over the steaming seas to Egypt's
hoary shrines. It bore a sadness with it like unto that which
welled up from my soul, tapping the fountains of friendship--
and tears upon its way, in the memorable hour wherein I left
the Golden Gate, and began my perilous journey to the dis-
tant Orient-across the bounding seas. What an hour i--
that wherein our bodies move away, but leave our sorrowing
souls behind !
" Well; a holy light, sadness-bearing light, like this now
rested on the bodies of the sleeping pair. At first, this silvery
radiance filled the room, and then the fleecy vapor began to
condense slowly. Presently it formed into a rich and opal-
escent cloud-column, which speedily changed into a large
globe, winged, radiant and beautiful. Gradually there ap-
peared in the centre of this globe a luminous spot, momen-

tarily intensifying its brilliance, until it became like unto a
tiny sun, or as the scintills of a rare diamond when all the
lamps are brightly shining. Slowly, steadily, the change
went on in'this magic crystal globe, until there appeared,
within it the diminutive figure of a female, whose outlines be-
came more clear as time passed- on, until, at the end of a few
minutes, the figure was perfect, and stood fully revealed and.
complete-about eighteen inches high, and lovely-ah, how -
lovely 1-that figure ; it was more than woman is-was all
she may become-petite, but absolutely perfect in form, feature
and expression ; and there was a love-glow radiating from
her presence sufficiently melting to subdue the heart of Sin
itself, though robed in Nova Zembla's icy shroud. Her eyes !
-ah, her eyes 1--they were softer than the down upon a
ring-dove's breast 1-not electric, not magnetic-such are
human eyes ; and she was not of this earth-they were some-
thing more, and higher-they were tearful, anxious, solicitous,
hopeful, tender, beaming with that snowy love which blessed
immortals feel. Her hair was loose, and hung in flowing
waves adown her pearly neck and shoulders. Such a neck
and shoulders 1-polished alabaster, dashed with orange
blossoms, is a very poor comparison ; it would be better to
say that they resembled petrified light, tinted with the morn-
ing blush of roses I Around her brow was a coronet of burn-
ished, rainbow hues ; or rather the resplendent tints of polar-
ized light. In its centre was the insignia of the Supreme
Temple of the Rosie Cross-a circle inclosing a triangle--a
censer on one side, an anchor fouled on the other, the centre-

HESPERINA.            45


THE ROSICRUOIAN 'S STORY.

piece being a winged globe, surmounted by the sacred trine,
and based by the watchword of the Order, 'TaR,' the whole
being arched with the blazon, 'RosIcRuca.' To attempt a
minute description of this peerless fay, on my part, would be
madness :-.-her chin, her mouth, her bust, her lips ! No! I
am not so vain as to make the essay. I may be equal to
such a task a century or two from this, but am not equal to
it now.
"There, then, and thus stood the crowned beauty of the
Night, gazing down with looks of pity upon the restless
occupants of that humble couch ; for during all these trans-
actions they had been asleep. She stood there, the realiza-
tion and embodiment of Light ; and there, directly facing
her, glowered, and floated the eye of that hateful, scowling,
frowning Thing-scowling with malignant joy upon the
woman and the man. Thus stood the Shadow : thus stood
the Light. But soon there came a change o'er the spirit of
the scene ; for now an occurrence took place of a character
quite as remarkable as either of those already recounted ;. for
in a very short time after the two Mysteries had assumed
their relative positions, there came through the window-
the same little window at the foot of the bed-the tall and-
stately figure of a man-a tall and regal.figure, but it was
light and airy-buoyant as a summer cloud pillowed oi the
air--the figure of a man, but not solid, for it was translucent
as the pearly dew, radiant as the noontide sun, majestic as a
lofty mountain when it wears a snowy crown !--the royal
form of a man,, but evidently not a ghost, or wraith, or a.

man of these days, or of this earth, or of the ages now
elapsing. He was something more than man; he was supra-
mortal ; a bright and glorious citizen of a starry land of
glory, whose gates. I beheld, once upon- a time, wherr Lara.
bade me wait ; he was, of a lineage we Rosicrucians wot ofr
and. only we !-a dweller in a wondrous city; afar off, real,
actual-whose gates are as, the finest pearl-so bright and
beautiful are they.. .  . The stately figure advanced mid-
way of the room, until- het occupied the centre of a triangle
formed by the shadowy Thing, the - female figure,. and the
bed.; and then he ,waved his hand, in which was -a staff or
truncheons-winged- at top and- bottom ; and he spake,
saying :
"' I, Otanethi, the Genius of the Temple, Lord of the
Hour, and servant of the Dome, am: sent hither to, thee, 0
Hesperina, Preserver of the falling ; and, to thee, dark
Shadow, ands to these poor blind gropers in the Night and
gloom- I am sent to proclaim that mansever reacheth. Ruin
or Redemption- through   himself alone--strengthened- by
Love of Him-self-sought-reacheth either Pole of- PossW
bility as he, fairly warned, and therefore fully armed, may
elect !  Yoor, weak man !-a giant, knowing not his own
tremendous power I-Master both of .Circumstance and the
World-yet the veriest slave- to either I-weak, bute only
through ignorance of himself.I-forever and forever failing in
life's great race through slenderness of Purpose I-through'
feebleness of WillI- Virtue is not virtue which cones not
18*

OTrANETH ii


48          THE ROSIORUCIAN ' STORY.

THE ROAD TO HEAVEN.          49

of Principle within--that comes not of will and aspiration.
That abstinence from wrong is not virtue which results
from external pressure--fear of what the speech of people
may effect ! It is false !-that virtue which requires bolster-
ing or propping up, and falls when left to try its strength
alone ! Vice is not vice, but weakness, that springs not
from within---which is the effect of applied force. Real
vice is that which leaves sad marks upon the soul's escutch-
eon, which the waters of an eternity may not lave away or
wash out ; and it comes of settled purpose--from within,
and is the thing of Will. The virtue that has never
known temptation-and withstood it, counts but little in the
great Ledger of the Yet to Be! True virtue is good resolve,
better thinking, and action best of all ! That man is but
half completed whom the world has wholly made. - They are
never truly made who fail to make themselves ! Mankind are
not of the kingdom of the Shadow, nor of the glorious realm
of Light, but are born, move along, and find their highest
development in the path which is bounded on either side by
those two eternal Diversities--the Light upon this side--the
Shadow upon that :       s
"'The road to man and womanhood lies in the mean:
Discontent on either aide-happiness between.'
"'Life is a triangle, and it may be composed of Sorrow,
Crime, Misery ; or Aspiration, Wisdom, Happiness. These,
o peerless Hesperina, are the lessons I am sent to teach.
Thou art here to save two souls, not from loss, assailing or

assoilings from without, but from the things engendered of.
morbid thought-monstrous things bred in the cellar's of
the soul-the cesspools of the spirit-crime-caverns where
moral newts and toads, unsightly things and hungry, are
ever devouring the flowers that spring up in the heart-
gardens of man-pretty flowers, wild-but which double and
enhance in beauty and aroma from cultivation and care.
We are present-I to waken the wills of yonder pair ;
thou to arouse a healthy purpose and a normal action ;
and the Shadow is here to drag them to Perdition. Man
cannot reach Heaven save by fearlessly breasting the waves
of Hell ! Listen ! Thou mayest not act directly upon
the woman or the man, but are at liberty to effect thy pur-
pose through the instrumentality of DREAM ! And thou,'
addressing the Thing, 'thou grim Shadow-Angel of Crime
-monstrous offspring of man's begetting-thou who. art
permitted to exist, art also allowed to flourish and batten on
human hearts. I may not prevent thee-dare not openly
frustrate thee-for thus it is decreed. Thou -must do thy
work. Go ; thou art free and unfettered. Do thy worst ;
but I forbid thee to appear as thou really art-before their
waking senses, lest thy horrible presence should strike them
dumb and blind, or hurl Will and Reason from their thrones.
Begone ! To thy labor, foul Thing, and do thy work also
through the powerful instrumentality of DIRAM!'
" Thus spoke the genius of the Order and the Hour ; and
then, turning him toward the couch, he said, yearningly,
with tearful mien and outstretched arms : 'Mortals, hear

0


50           THE ROSICRUOIAN'S STORY.

me in thy slumber-let thy souls, but not thy senses, hear
and understand. Behold, I touch thee with this magic wand
of Rosicrucia, and with it wake thy sleeping wills-thus do
I endow thee with the elements, Attention, Aspiration, Per-
sistence-the seeds of Power-of resistless Might, which,
will-if such be thy choice, enable thee to. realize a moral
fortress, capable of defying the combined assaults of all
the enginery Circumstance can bring to bear against thee.
The citadel is Will. . Intrenched within it, thou art safe.
But beware of turning, thy assaulting power against thy-
selves. Will, normal, ever produceth Good: Abnormal, it
hurls thee to the Bad ! Remember ! Wake. not to the
external life; but- in thy slumber seize on. the word I whisper
in, thine ears ; it is a magic word-a mighty talisman,.
more potent than.the seal of Solomon-more powerful than,
the Chaldean's wand--but it is potential for ill as. fox; Good.
See to it, therefore, that it is wisely used. The word is'
"'nw !"  As thou shalt avail. thyselves of its power, so be
it unto thee. . I now leave thee to thy fate, and the fortunes,
that may befall thee. Two dreams each shalt thou have.
this night ;. one of them shall be overruled by thy good. tOL
other by thy evil genius. God help theei Farewell !' and
in another instant,, the. tall and stately figure passed. through
the moonlight out upon the deep bosom of the Night.; and-
he floated, accompanied. by the same soft! musicsheard before,
away off into the blue. empyrean.; and he passed through the
window-the little, window at. the foot of the. bed, whosp
upper sash.was down..

PART III.

THE MAGIC SPELL.
"IIn the Kingdom of Dream strange things are seen,
And the Fate of'the Nations are there, I ween."
Prom " Teo Roni. -Croea," an unpbised Poem ob
P. B. RA1oDLPR.
S THE regal being was scarcely gone from the chamber ere
Hesperina and the Shadow-which had- once more become
visible, approached the sleeping pair-drew nigh unto the
woman and the man; and the Fay gently breathed upon
their heads, as if to establish a magnetic rapport between her-
self and them. She then calmly took her stand, near the
bedside, and folded her beautiful arms across her still more
beautiful bosom, and awaited-the action of the tempter. She
had not long to wait, for straightway the Black Presence
advanced, and hovered, over the bed-hovered scowlingly
over then, glaring down into their souls, as doth the varit
pire upon the man she would destroy-the spirit of Wrong
peering; wistfully at all beautiful, things, and true! Sucl
was the.posture of affairs.; and thus:they remained: until the
Thing had also established some sort of connection.with the
sleepers. It soon became evident, from their nervous, uneasy


FEARFUL AND FATAL CATASTROPHE.

movements and postures, that the twain were rapidly cross-
ing the mystic boundaries that divide our own from Dream-
land-that they were just entering the misty mid-region-the
Shadow, the Thing, the monstrous IT, ruling the hour, and
guiding them through the strange realm---
"'That lieth sublime, out of Space and out of Time.'
" The man who says that dreams are figments is a fool.
Half of our nightly experiences are, in their subsequent ef-
fects upon us, far more real and positive than our daily life
of wakefulness. Dreams are, as a general thing, save in rare
instances, sneered at by the wise ones of this sapient age.
Events, we of Rosicrucia hold, are pre-acted in other
spheres of being. Prophetic dreaming is no new thing. Cir-
cumstances are constantly occurring in the outer life that
have been pre-viewed in Dream-land. Recently, while in-
Constantinople, I became acquainted with a famous Dongo-
lese negro, near the Grand Mosque of St. Sophia, in one of
the narrow streets on the left, as you enter the square from
toward the first bridge, and this man had reduced the inter-
pretation of dreams to a science almost ; and many a long
hour have I rapidly driven the pen, in the work of recording
what was translated. to me from Dongolese and Arabic into
Turkish and English, from his lips, obtaining in this way not
merely the principles upon which his art was founded, but
also explicit interpretations of about twenty-nine hundred
different dreams.

"THE DREAM OF THOMAS W.
" Tom Clark was dreaming ; and, lo! great changes had
taken place in the fortunes of the sleeping man. No longer
a toiler at the anvil or the plow, he had become a rich and,
as times go, therefore an honored man-honored by the
crowd which, as a general thing, sees the most virtue in the
heaviest sack of dollars.
"The wealth of Mr. Thomas W. had come to him in a very
singular and mysterious manner, all since he had become a
widower ; for Mrs. Thomas was dead, poor woman, having
some time previously met her fate through a very melancholy
accident. An extract from the 'Daily Truth-Teller,' of
Santa Blarneeo, a copy of which paper Tom Clark carried
in his pocket all the time, and which pocket I shall take the
liberty of picking of the journal aforesaid, and of quoting,
will tell the story--sad story-but not the whole of it, quite :
"' FEARFUL AND FATAL CATASTROPHE I--We learn with
deep, sincere, and very profound regret, that another of those
fearful calamities, which no human prudence can guard
against, no foresight prevent, has just occurred, and by means
of which a most estimable woman, an exemplary and loving
wife, an excellent Christian, firm friend, and esteemed per-
son, has been suddenly cut off in her prime, and sent prema-
turely to her final account. It appears that the late heavy
rains have rendered all the roads leading from Santa Blarneeo
nearly impassable, by reason of the rifts, rocks, boulders, and

53.

52

THE ROSICRUCIA N'S STORY.


TH ROSCaIAN'S' STORY.

slides of clay--very dangerous and slippery clay-which they
have occasioned.
"'Especially is this the case along the cliff road, and' more
particularly where- it skirts the side of the: Bayliss Gulch.
Of late it has been exceedingly unsafe to pass that way in'
broad ,daylight, and much more so after dark.
"' At about ten o'clock yesterday morning; as Mr. Ellet,
the Ranchero, was passing that road, along the, brink, of
what is known as the Scott ravine, his. horse shied at some
objects.; in the path; which, proved to be a man's hat and'
woman's shawl;, on the- very edge of the precipice---al clear
fall of something like four hundred feet. It immediately oc-
curred, to; Farmer Ellety that if anybody had tumbled over
the cliff, that there was a great probability that whoever it'-
was must have been considerably hurt, if nothing more, by the
time they reached the bottom, as' he well remembered! had.
been' the, case with, a yoke' of steers: of his that" had run off 'at'
the same spot some years before, and both of which were
killed, very dead, indeed, by the accident. So, at' least, he
informed our reporter, who' took'down theJstatement phono-r
graphically. Mr. Ellet discovered the remains' of a horse
and' buggy at the bottom of the ravine, and' at a little to the.
left, about ten feet down the' bank, where he had, by a-mira.
cle, been thrown when the horse went, over, Mr. Ellet. found
the insensible body of: a man, desperately hurt,' but still'
breathing. His fall. had been broken by some stbutyoutg}
trees and bushes, amidst the roots of which he now lay. Mri.
E. soon rescued the. sufferer, who. provedto be Mr. Thomas-

THE RULING PASSION OF REPORTERS.          55
W. Clark, a well-known, honest, sober man, and a neighbor
as well. Mr. Clark's injuries are altogether internal, from
the shock of falling, otherwise he is almost unscathed. His
pains inwardly are very great, besides which he is nearly dis-
tracted and insane from the loss of his wife and horse, but
mainly for the former. It seems that they had been riding
out on a visit to a sick friend, and the horse had slipped on
the wet clay, had taken fright, and leaped the bank, just as
Clark was hurled from the buggy, and landed where Ellet
found him. The horse, carriage, and the precious freight,
instantly plunged headlong down through four hundred feet
of empty air.
"'We learn that the couple were most devotedly attached
to each other, as is notorious from the fact, among others,
that whenever they met, after a day's absence, and no mat-
ter where, nor in what company, they invariably embraced
and kissed each other, in the rich, deep fullness of their im-
passioned and exhaustless conjugal love. Poor Clark's loss
is irreparable. His wife had been twice married, but her af-
fection for her first husband was but as a shallow brook com-
pared to the deep, broad ocean of love for him who now
mourns, most bitterly mourns, her untimely fate I'
"There ! What d'ye think o* that, my lady ?--what d'ye
think o' that, my man ? That's a newspaper report, the
same that Tom Clark carried in his, pocket, and read so. often-
in his dream. Singular, isn't it,. that the ruling passion trim
umphs, especially Reporters'--even in Death or Dream-land.

I


56           THE ROSICRUCIAN'8 STORY.

CLARK IN A -REVERIE.        57

" At the end of two days Mr. Clark recovered sufficiently
to go to the foot of the cliff, and when there his first work
'as to carefully bury what was left of his wife-and her
first husband's portrait at the same time-for he had placed
that canvas across the backs of two chairs, and amused
himself by jumping through it--like a sensible man.
" There is-do you know it ?-an almost uncontrollable fas
cination in Danger. Have you never been seized with the
desire to throw yourself down some yawning chasm, into
some abyss, over into the ready jaws of a shark, to handle a
tiger, play with a rattlesnake, jump into a foundery furnace,
write a book, edit a paper, or some other such equally wise
and sensible thing ? Well, I know many who have thus
been tempted--and to their ruin. Human nature always
has a morbid streak, and that is one of them, as is also the
horrible attraction to an execution-to visit the scene of a
homicide or a conflagration-especially if a few people have
been burnt up-and the more the stronger the curiosity;
or to look at the spot where a score or two of Pat-landers
have been mumified by the weakness of walls--and con-
tractors' consciences. With what strange interest we read
how the monarch of some distant lovely isle dined with his
cabinet, off Potage aux tiet de missionaire-how they ban-
queted on delicate slices of boiled evangelist, all of which
viandes were unwillingly supplied by the Rev. Jonadab Con-
vert-'em-all, who had a call that way to supply the bread of
life, not slices of cold missionary-and did both !  So with
Tom Clark. One would have thought that the last scene he

would willingly have looked upon, would have been the bottom
of the ravine. Not a bit of it. An uncontrollable desire
seized him, and for his life he could not keep away from the
foot of the cliff. He went there, and day by day searched
for every vestige of the poor woman, whose heart, and head
likewise, he at last had succeeded in breaking into very small
fragments. These relics he buried as he found them, yet still
could not forsake his daily haunt. Of course, for a time the
people observed his action, attributed it to grief and love,
forbore to watch or disturb, and finally cared nothing about
the matter whatever. Such things are nothing in California.
Well was it for Clark that it was so-that they regarded
him as mildly insane, and let his vagaries have full swing, for
it gave him ample time and opportunity to fully improve one
of the most astounding pieces of good luck that ever befell a
human being since the year One.
" It fell out upon a certain day, that, after attending to
other duties, Tom Clark, as usual, wound his way, by a zig-
zag and circuitous path, to the foot of the hill, and took his
accustomed seat near by the rock where it was evident Mrs.
C. had landed-the precise spot where her flight had been
so rudely checked. There he sat for a while, like Volney, in
deep speculative reverie and meditation-not upon the
ruins of Empires, but upon those of his horse, his buggy, and
his wife. Suddenly he started to his feet, for a very strange
fancy had struck upon his brain. I cannot tell the precise
spot of its impingement, but it hit him hard. He acted on
the idea instantly, and forthwith resolved to dig up all the


-THE ROSIORUCIAN'S STORY.

soil thereabouts, that had perchance drank a single drop of
her blood. It was not conscience that was at work, it was
destiny. This soil, that had been imbrued with the blood of
the horse and buggy-no, the woman, I mean.-he resolved
to bury out of sight of man and brute, and sun and moon,.
and little peeping stars ; for an instinct told him that the
gore-stained soil could not be an acceptable spectacle to,
anything on earth, upon the velvet air, or in the blue heaven
above it ; and so he scratched up the mould and buried
it out of sight, in a rift hard by, between two mighty
rocks, that the earthquake had split asunder a million years
before.
"And so he threw it in, and then tried to screen- it from the'
sun with leaves and grass, great stones and logs of wood ;
after which he again sat down upon the rock to rest.
"Presently he arose to go, when, as he did so, a gleam of
sunshine flashed back upon his eyes from a minute spicule of,
he knew not what. He stooped ; picked up the object, and
found, to his utter astonishment, that he held in his hand a
lump of gold, solid gold--an abraded, glittering lump of
actual, shining gold.
"Tom Clark nearly fainted ! The lump weighed not less
than a pound. Its sides had been scratched by him as he
dug: away the earth at the foot of the cliff where his wife
had landed, after a brief flight through- four hundred feet of
empty air-a profitable journey for him-but not for her,
nor the horse, nor buggy !~1
" For a minute Clark stood still,, utterly bewildered, and

!f

58

7
.  i
t
'J \
r, i
_ fa
r
t

ICE STRIKES A. 49 BIG LEAD. )'

59

wiping the great round beads of sweat from off his brow. He
wept at every pore. But it was for a minute only : in the
next he was madly, wildly digging with the trowel he always
carried with him, for Tom was Herb-Doctor in general for
the region roundabout, and was great at the root and herb
business, therefore went prepared to dig them wherever
chance disclosed them.
"Five long hours did he labor like a Hercules, in the soft
mould, in the crevices of the rocks-everywhere-and with
mad energy, with frantic zeal. Five long hours did he ply
that trowel with all the force that the hope of sudden wealth
inspired, and then, exhausted, spent, he sank prostrate on the
ground, his head resting on a mass of yellow gold-gold not
in dust, or flecks, or scales, but in great and massy lumps
and wedges, each one large enough for -a poor man's mak-
ing.
"That morning Thomas Clark's worldly wealth, all told,
could have been bought thrice over for any five of the pieces
then beneath his head, and there were scores of them. His
brain reeled with the tremendous excitement. He had struck
the richest 'Lead' ever struck by mortal man on the surface
of the planet, for he had already collected more than he
could lift, and he was a very stong and powerful man.
There was enough to fill a. two-peck measure, packed and
piled as close and high as it could be ; and yet he had just
begun. Ah, Heaven, it was too much !
" Alas, poor Tom ! poor, doubly poor, with. all thy sud-
den, boundless wealth I Thou art even poorer than Val-

a


THE GOLDEN CALF.             61

;,
4
1
1
f
i
I
j
j ;
f
j[i
1
i
t
{ i
i  r
j
S
t
i
3!
sS
,1
jz
E,
t
,
si
r,

mondi, who, the legends say, gave his soul to the service of
the foul fiend-for he, like thee, had riches inexhaustible ;
but, unlike Valmondi, and the higher Brethren of the Rosie
Cross, thou hast not the priceless secret of Perpetual youth.
Thou wilt grow old, Tom Clark-grow old, and sick, and
grey hairs and wrinkles will overtake thee. And see ! yon-
der is an open grave, and it yearns for thee, Tom Clark, it
yearns for thee ! And there's Blood upon thy hands, Tom
Clark, red gouts of Blood-and gold cannot wash it off.
" Valmondi repented, and died a beggar, but thy heart is
cased in golden armor, and the shafts of Mercy may not
reach its case, and wake thee up to better deeds, and high
and lofty daring for the world and for thy fellow-men. Gold !
Ah, Tom, Tom, thou hadst better have been- a humble
Rosicrucian-better than I, for weakness has been mine.
It is better to labor hard with brain and tongue and hands,
for mere food and raiment, than be loaded down with riches,
that bear many a man earthward, and fill untimely graves !
It is better to live on bread, and earn it, than to be a mile
lionaire. Better to have heaped up wealth of Goodness,
than many bars of Gold. Poor Tom! Rich you are in
what self-seeking men call wealth ; but poor, ah, how poor I
in the better having, which whetteth the appetite for know-
ledge, and its fruitage, Wisdom, and which sendeth man, at
night, to Happy Dream land, upon the viewless pinions of
sweet and balmy Sleep ! Every dollar above labor brings ten
thousand evils in its train.
"Well, night was close at hand, and Tom buried his God,

and went home. Home, did I say ?   Not so. He went to
his bed, to sleep, and in that sleep he dreamed that it was
raining double eagles, while he held his hat beneath the
spout. But he was not home, for home is where the heart
is, and we have seen the locality of Clark's.
"For days, weeks, months, he still worked at his 'Lead,'
studiously keeping his own counsel, and managing the affair,
from first to last, with the most consummate tact ; so that
no one even suspected that the richest man in California, and
on the entire continent, was Mr. Thomas W. By degrees
he conveyed to, and had vast sums coined at the mint, as
agent for some mining companies. A few hogsheads he bu-
ried here and there, and springled some dozens of barrels
elsewhere about the ground. This he continued to do until
at last even his appetite for gold was doubly, triply glutted ;
and then he sprung the secret, sold his claim for three mil-
lions, cash in hand, and forthwith moved, and set up an esta-
blishment close under Telegraph Hill, in the best locality in
all Santa Blarneeo.
"And now everybody and his wife bowed to Mr. Thomas
W., and did homage to-his money. Curious, isn't it, how
long some gods will live ?  About three thousand years ago
a man of Israel fashioned one out of borrowed jewelry, fash-
ioned it in the form of a veal, after which he proclaimed it,
and all the human calves fell down straightway, and a good
many are still bent on worshipping at the self-same shrine.
That calf has retained to this day 'eleven-tenths' of earth's
most jealous adoration ! So now did men reverence Clark's

#' '
f
F
tt .
''e
7
i  t}
jr
a
'
.
{    .
'
# .
t.
.

60

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.


}
'U.
I
{
i
i4 {
5
j
E I
S
e f
I I
f f
S
j t
t(Z       ,
p! t
t
1
f
3
I         1
Z. f
S f
{ f
{
f
ti
i{
t

62

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

money. Women smiled upon him, ambitious spins ers ogled,
and hopeful maidens set their caps to enthrall him. He could
carry any election, gave tone to the Money Market, reigned
supreme and undisputed king on "Change,' and people took
him for a happy man ; and so he was, as long as daylight
lasted, and he was steadily employed ; but, somehow or
other, his nights were devilishly unpleasant ! He could not
rest well, for in the silence of the night, when deep sleep fall-
eth upon man, an unsheeted ghost passed before his face,
bearing a most damnably correct similitude to a former fe-
male acquaintance of his, now, alas I deceased ; and not unfre-
quently, as he hurried along the streets, did he encounter
persons who bore surprising and unmistakable resemblances
to the 'dear departed.'
"'Black clouds come up, like sinful visions,
To distract the souls of solitary men.'
"Was Tom Clark mistaken ? Was it Fancy ? Was it
Fear ?  . . . One night he went to a theatre, but left it
in a hurry, when the actor, who was playing Macbeth, looked
straight into his private box and said :
"'The times have been that, when the brains were out
The man would die--and there an end ;
But now they rise again, with twenty mortal murders
On their crowns, to push us from our seats!'
And the words pushed Clark out, of the house, deadly sick
--fearfully pale ; for the avenging furies, roused at last, were

at that very moment lashing his guilty soul to madness-
and Shakspeare's lines, like double-edged daggers, went
plunging, cutting, leaping, flying through every vault and
cavern of his spirit. He rushed from the place, reached his
house, and now: 'The, bowl, the bowl!3 Wine, give me
wine, ruby wine.' They gave it, and it failed ! Stronger drink,
much stronger, now became his refuge, and in stupefying
his brain he stultified his conscience. His torture was not to
last forever, for by dint of debauchery his sensitive soul went
to sleep, and the brute man took the ascendant. Conscience
slept profoundly. His heart grew case-hardened, cold and
callous as an ice-berg. He married a Voice, and a Figure,
as heartless as himself ; became a politician-which com-
pletely finished him ; but still, several handsome donations to
a fashionable church--just think of it!-had, the effect of pro-
curing him the reputation of sanctity, which lie he, by dint
of repetition, at last prevailed upon himself to believe. Thus
we leave him for awhile, and return to the chamber in which
was the little window whose upper sash was down.
14

CONSCIENCE ASLEEP.

i
iI

63


GOPHERs.

PART IV.

THE DREAM OF BETSEY CLARK.
'MADAME, awake, it will be remembered, had come to the
conclusion to settle Tom's coffee-and hash, at the same time,
with a dose or two of ratsbane, or some similar delicate con-
diment; and now, in her dream, she thought all her plans
wereso well and surely made as to defy detection, and laugh
outright at-failure.
" In California there is a small but very troublesome rodent
known to Science as *'Pseudo-stoma bursa.rius,' and to the
vulgar world as ' gopher '-a sort of burrowing rat, nearly
as mischievous and quite as wicked, for the little wretches
have a settled and special penchant for boring holes in the
ground, particularly in the vicinity of fruit trees. My friend,
Mr. Rumford, who has a very fine orchard in Fruit Vale,
Contra Costa, just across the bay from Santa Blarneeo, re-
cently assured me that the rascals make it a point to destroy
young trees, not only without compunction, but even without
saying, 'By your leave.' Now it so happened that Clark's
place was overstocked with the pestilent animals alluded to,
and the proprietors had, time and again, threatened the

whole race with extermination, by means of arsenic, phos-
phor-paste, or some other effective poison, but had never
carried the resolution into practice. This fact was seized on
by Mrs. Clark, as a capital point d'appui. Accordingly, with
a dull hand-saw, the lady hacked a few dozen of the very
choicest young trees, in such a way as to make them look like.
unmistakable gopher-work, thus subjecting the brutes to
charges whereof phey were as innocent as two unborn babes.
Gophers and the Devil have to answer for a great deal that
properly belong to other parties. Her act was a grand
stroke of policy. She meant that Tom should voluntarily
get the poison, which she intended he-not the gophers-
should take at the very earliest possible opportunity.  She
didn't mean to purchase arsenic-oh, no, she knew too much
for that ! The ravage was speedily discovered by Clark. He
raved, stamped his foot in his wrath, turned round on his.
heel, pulled his cap over his eyes, ejaculated, 'Dod dern 'em !
started for the city, and that very night returned, bearer of
six bits' worth of the strongest and deadliest kind of poison-
quite as deadly, almost as strong, as that which stupid fools
drink in corner stores at six cents a glass.
"That night about half the poison was mixed and set.
Twelve hours thereafter there was great tribulation and
mourning in Gopherdom ; for scores of the little gentry ate
of' it, liked the flavor, tried a little more-got thirsty-they
drank freely (most fools do!) felt uncomfortable, got an-
gry, swelled-with indignation and poisoned meal ! and not
a few of them immediately (to quote Mr. Clark), 'failed in

(   '     .
'  ;,
# !
tj ,
t        '
,f ,'
t    ;   ,
'.{ i,
i  ,
i  ;.
'    1
[FF ,  t
(    i+
};   i
,
S    z
f
f
i    i
i
,
i-
i   ?
t    t#
#
'r   j
;     ;
;
i
,"
;    :
f
s
'
i
E3'     f
X,

65

1

t
T
3
Y
y
S
C
k
i
-i
i
4
'r


A  [AY AN) FESTIVE WIDOW.       O7

i
i;
f
'
:,
i"
e    i
r
;i
,,
i  ,
1 1'
'
k$
4

business,; that is to say, they burstr.-burst all to thunder :'
Alas, poor rodents!'
"Next morning Tom's coffee was particularly good. Betsey
fairly surpassed herself, in fact she came it rather too strong.
About ten- o'clock he felt thirsty, and inclined.toward cold
water ; fo.r the weather was hot, and so were his 'coppers,'
to quote the 'Ancient Mariner. He would have taken much,
water, only that Betsey dissuaded him, and said :'It was
just like him, to go and get sick by drinking ever so much
cold water! Why didn't he take switchel, or, what wag
much better, cold coffee, with. plenty of milk in it,-=and
sugar, of. course.;' and so he (Tom) tried her prescription,
liked it, took a little more, and that night followed the
Gophers !
"Three days afterwards a kindly neighbor handed Mrs.
Clark a fresh copy of the 'Santa Blarneeo Looking Glass,'
wherein she read, with tearful eyes, the following true and
veracious account of
"'A MOST DISTRESSING AND FATAL SUICIDE I
"'We regret to announce -the fearful suicide, while labor-
ing under a fit of temporary insanity, caused by the bite of
a gopher, of Mr. Thomas W. Clark. It appears, that in or-
der to destroy the vermin, he purchased some arsenic, gave
some to the animals, got bitten by them, ran stark mad in
consequence, and then swallowed the balance (about a pound)
himself. His unfortunate wife now lies at the point of death,
by reason of the dreadful shock. She is utterly distracted

by, the. distressing and heartrending event, which is nall the
more poignant from the fact, that probably',no married pair
that ever lived were more ardently and devotedly attached
than were they. The coroner and a picked jury of twelve
men sat for two hours in consultation,' after which they found
a verdict of "Death by his own act, while insane' from the
bite of a gopher!"
"In due time the body of the victim who had been killed
so exceedingly dead, by cruel, cold poison--(if it had been
warm he might have stood it, but cold !)-was consigned .to
the grave-and forgetfulness at the same time ; and after a
brief season of mourning, materially assisted before cotnpany
by, a peeled onion (one of the rankest kind) in a handkerchief,
applied to the.eyes-my Lady Gay,, our.-disconsolate reliot--
fair, forty, and somewhat fat-gave .tokens, by change of
dress, that she was once more in the market matrimonial,
With her tacks 'and sheets, and' her bowlines, too,
And colors flying--red, white, and blue,'
She was once more ready to dare and do for:husband num.-
ber three,.. To do ..her, justice; she ,was good-looking-- all
women are, when they choose to;be.-. Her face was fair and
intelligent ; she possessed a voluptuous.. degree of'; what
Monsieur de Fillagre calls 'oom-bong-pong ' (embonpoint),
could sing-at, a mark ; and.,fnot 0 fat!, was-,au fait-a
little of both, perhaps-on .the light, fantastic toe-of the
California Order ; while as an invaluable addition, there was

1 '
,E
 S ''
i
(z
S   i
II  . ,
ti ,
:
1 i
t
f }
3
1
}
i r
it
1
,i }
E ,
,'
,R
i     )
'
,
t
t
,     i
.; i
cis
i
{

I   f(

66,          THE ROSIClR-UCIAN'S STORY.


i
1
r ;;
,
'
,
i
;
;

THE osouaqs-ToRr.

r   4
FF
[          K   t
Ft         t
4 +
F          y  ,
{{li        J
t l         s      ,
ttt          4
.lt
t         f      }
rijt      (       ,
e ,tf
{     C      f
3                 "
1
t       },i 1  s
1

" JUSTIFIABLE ALL THE WAY."

69

.,
,;
;
,

68

no woman on the coast who could equal her in getting up
either linen, a dinner, or a quarrel. She excelled all rivals
in the really divine art of cooking a husband-beefsteak, I
mean. Her pastry and bread were excellent, her tea was
fine, and her coffee was all that man could wish, and more
so, for it was good--perfectly killing-as we have seen.
" Betsey took matters coolly ; was in no apparent hurry,
for she had resolved to shoot only at high game, and, accord-
ingly, after a time, deigned to smile upon the Reverend Doc-
tor Dryasdust, the honored head of the new sect recently
sprung up in the land,. and which was known as the 'Wotcher
Kawlums,' and who rejoiced in repudiating everything over
five years old in the shape of doctrine, tenet and discipline,
but who went in strongly for Progress and pantaloons--for
women ; for Honduras and the naked truth ; for Socialism
and sugar estates ; mahogany and horticulture-a patent
sort.
"Now, the pastor of this promising body felt that it was,
not good for man to be alone, and therefore cast about for a
rib whereof to have fashioned a help meet unto him. He saw
the widow, fell in love, proposed, was accepted, and in due
time she became the wife of the Newlight preacher. I like
the old lights best ; she didn't.
" Betsey achieved a 'position'-a thing for which her sex
almost proverbially sacrifice all they have on earth-happi.
ness, health, long life, usefulness. She enjoyed herself quite
well, and only two things disturbed her peace of mind:
First, she could not bear the smell or sight of coffee, which

f
t    ,
tl
l=
i
,
#
,   'fi
f}
i(
r
R

drink her new lord was strongly addicted to, and insisted -on
her making for him with her own hands ; thereby inflicting
daily tortures upon her, compared to which all physical pain
was pleasure. The second disturbing cause was this : by a
very strange fatality their house was overrun with rats, and
their garden fairly swarmed with gophers--which, with in-
fernal malice and pertinacity, became quite tame, semi-
domesticated, and intruded themselves upon her notice a
dozen times a day, thereby fetching up from memory's store-
house fearful reminiscences of other days-horrible recollec-
tions of the gophers of the long-agone. It is hard to be
weaned of your fears; nevertheless, after a while she con-
quered herself, brazened down her horrors, weighed herself,
applied a false logic, tried herself by it, and returned a cleat
verdict of 'Justifiable all the way,' and concluded that her
present happiness, what there was of it, fairly outweighed the
crime by which it had been reached. She was materially
justified in her conclusions by an accidental development of
character on the part of her present husband, who had, in a
fit of petulance, unfolded a leaf from the inner volume of the
soul within.
" Not caring to recapitulate the whole story (for reticence
is sometimes wisdom), I will merely observe that at the end
of a somewhat heated controversy, her husband had smashed
a mirror, with one of Webster's quarto dictionaries, and
roundly declared that he 'preached for pay. Hang it, Ma-
dame, the salary's the thing !--you Bet ! How can souls be
saved without a salary ? That's a plain question. They are
not now, at all events, whatever may have been the case


C      f {
ii
{pp
S(I    y ' I
y7 t   I j
Le    ,   ;7

'THE ROSIORIfOLAN8- STORY.

with the' Old Lights, who had a great deal more zeal than
discretion-more fools they '  It can't be done in these days
of high prices and- costly raiment--with the obligation of
feeding well and dressing better.  What's life Without
money?    What's talent without brass?   What's genius
Without gold ? They won't -payI' No, 'no, Madame ; in the
game of life, diamonds are always trumps, and hearts are
bound to lose.  What's the result-?S
Listen 1 Five years ago, up in the mountains, I thought. I
had a  al. I did, and'went-and preached the new doctrines
of Do-as-you-feel-a-mind-to-provided-you-don't-get-catched-at-
it4sm-the regular out and out .All-Right-ite-provided-you-
don't-treadon-my-corns religion. Well, I preached it, had
Iar  houses, converted many--and nearly starved 1 .What's
iie consequence?' Why, I left,and now hear only the loudest
kind of eWlls I What's the loudest4Ballt? Whys. the biggest
salary'! that's=what's the 'matterI D   you see the point
the ike where the laugh comes in:It's'as plain as KB.C
to'meor ang othermaniandi all the ,!rest -is leather 'and
granellaa4'tuff, fdge-=--Ham i11
" Honest, out-spoken Dryasdust ! How many of the world's
teachers'sail in the"same 'boat! iHis el ieeee-ot allfalse,
eryays--was not lost upon-'phis. Wife.'The;Dryasdusts are
not ll dead ;there's a few ,more left of the same rt=only
tiey keel# their owrnaicunsel, even; from their' wives:New
"A'aresult of this"donversation; Madaiue became a sort !of
cross 'between ar:Atheist and-God knows what;"for she
neither one thing nor 'tother, but a=sort of pseudophilo-

M WHATEVER IS IS -RIGHT.

71'

.sophical nondescript, without any set principle-of belief what-
ever. Her conscience froze.
"'Who knoweth the spirit of a man that it goeth upward;
orof a beast that 'it goeth downward ? The. Spiritualists ?-
a. pack of fanatics I I don't-believe in khosts'-but'she shud-
dered as she gave utterance to the words, and her hair crawled
upon her head astifs touched with spectral fingers. No mani
disbelieves his immortality-the 'thing is impossible, pr se;
for although he may differ with that class of people. who pre-
tend to very extensive ghostly acquaintanceship and com-
merce, as many do-yet he doubtless always whistles as he
passes a graveyard in the night ! I certainly do.!. Why?
Because I disbelieve in ghosts.- --of course.  .:  }
r, 4:She 'resumed her soliloquy :. I'm nervous--that's all ! I
wnean to. eat, drink.and-be merry, for to-morrow I die nmz'
What-of it-isn't Death an eternal sleep?  My husband says
that it, is, to all except the New Lights; ,but he's a fool,.in
some things, that's certain. .  And after: death the Jug.
rnt P ',And she! shuddered again, for a cold wind passed by
her, 'and, she thought. it 'best to .light two more :candles and
run her fingersOver the piano, and take a'glass of Sainsevain's
bestAngelica. .Bah ;I: who' knows'anything about a judg-
ment ?  There's no-such thing. He's dead. 'What of it"?
He can't talk  If be could, what of it ? 'Ghosts can't testify
in court ! Besides, it was to be-and it's done. 'Fate is' re-
sponsible,'not I-
SIn spite of Reasda, erring 'Reasosspite
One truth is clear, Whatever -is$,is right.'
14*.

70


t;f

THE ROSICRUCIAN S STORY.

11q 1
4  ,!
 '  t
t1
LI  lei

WAS SHE RIGHT?

73

read them, and totally overlooked the sublime. teachings of
the third author named ; and her mind went to rest, and her
conscience slumbered under the sophisms-for such they are,
from one point of view. The opiate acted well. And so
she slept for years-long years of peace, wealth, all the world
could give her-~-slept in the belief that there would never
be a waking. Was she right ?  Wait. Let us see.
" We are still in the little chamber, near the window-,
the little window at the foot of the bed-whose upper sash
was down."

vi

72

"'Tom was to die. The conditions that surrounded him
were just such as had determined the results that followed. I
was but the proxy of eternal Fate. Am I to blame ?  Cer-
tainly not, for I acted in precise accordance with the condi-
tions that surrounded me-that made me do as I did--
tempted me beyond my strength ; and, for that reason, the
crime, if crime it be, was a foregone conclusion from th6
foundation of the world ! Hereafter ?
"'Come from the grave to-morrow with that story,
And I may take some softer path to glory.
"'Parrhasius was a true philosopher-or Willis. Pshaw -
I guess I'll take another drop of Angelica!'
"Poor Betsey ! she had been reading Pope and Leibnitz,
and Ben Blood-bad, worse and worst, unfairly interpreted ;
good, better and best, rightly understood-and as the re-
spective writers probably meant. Weak people read a book
as children do Swift's Gulliver--on the surface; others read
the great book whose letters are suns, whose words are starry
systems, in the self-same manner ; and there is still a greater
volume-the first edition, to be continued-the Human Soul
-which they never read at all. All of these must go to
school ; they will graduate by-and-by, when Death turns over
a new leaf. It is best to study now--there may not be so
good a chance presently.
. " Betsey Clark believed, or thought she did, that because
God made all things, therefore there could be no wrong in all
the world. She accepted Pope's conclusions literally, mis-


II
Ii
I111
Il i   'k'

TOM CLARK DREAMS AGAIN.

"AND now the Shadow-the terrible, monstrous Thing,
that had so strangely entered the room through the window
-the little window at the foot of the bed, whose upper sash
was down-hovered no longer over the heads of the woman
and the man-the unhappy woman, the misery-laden man,
who, when the last sun had set, went to bed with Murder and
Revenge-and Hatred-this wretched couple, who had con-
. templated such dreadful crimes, and who, within the past two
hours, had had such strange and marvellous dreams ! Only
two hoursI and yet in that space had been crowded the events
of a lifetime. They say there are no miracles ! What, then,
is this ?  hat are these strange experiences of soul which
we are constantly having-fifty years compressed in an hour
of ordinary Dream I-thirty thousand ages in a moment of
time, while under the accursed spells of Hasheesh?' The soul
flying back over unnumbered centuries ; scanning the totality
of the Present, and grasping a myriad Futurities-sweeping
the voitex of unborn epochs by the million !--and all in an
instant of the clock, while under the influence of the still more
1i4

sorLLIFE.                    15
accursed Muust. What are the frogs and bloody waves of
Egypt, compared to these miracles of the human soul--these
Dream-lives that are not Dreams?
"And so the Thing took the 'glare of its horrible Eye from
off the woman and the man. Its mission-its temptations
were' over. And it floated' from off the bed, frown-smiling at
Hesperina as it did so ; and it passed lazily, gloomily, scowl-
ingly through the window at the 'foot of the bed, -through
which it had a little previously entered ; 'and it moved'through
the starlight with a rush and a' oar- -a sullen rush and roar
--.as if each star-beam stabbed'it with a dagger of flame ;'and
the Thing 'seemed consciously'andry, and it sullenly roared, as
doth the wintry blast through the tattered' sails of a storm-
tossed" bark, toilsomely laborhig thro' the angry' deep: a
minute passed, and IT was gone" thank God I     h was
gone2,at last -that horrible Incubus=-that most fearful
Things
" Simultaneously 'the sleepers evinced by their moments
that their souls, if not their senses, had been relieved 'by the
presence 'of its absence ; and they were apparentlygon the
pkint of waking, but were prevented by the niagie oromag-
neticuaction of the 'angelic figui a'that'nomentleariig ._r
their couch; forshe' gently, soothingly waved'heY sno'y
hauds, and, 'in a voice sweeter than the tones 'of love wMi-
pered: "leep" on ; still' sleep-softly---sweetly' sle -ai
dream. Peace, troubled" hearts! Peace'; be 'still ' ari
they slumbered'on.

PART V.


F
ii
4 f1"
V~
ii

THE RO8IRUCIAN S STORY.

"Tom Clark's dream had changed. All the former troubled
and exciting scene had vanished into thin air, leaving
only vague, dim memories behind, to remind his soul
of what it had been, and what it had seen and suffered. In
the former dream he had been on dry, solid land ; but
now all this was strangely altered, and he found himself
tossed on a rough, tumultuous sea ;. his lot was cast upon
the deep-upon a wild and dreary waste of waters.    In
his dream the rain-great round and heavy drops of rain-
fell in torrents ; the mad winds and driving sleet-for the
rain froze as it fell--raved and roared fiercely, fitfully; and
the good ship bent and bellied to the hurricane, and she
groaned as if loath to give up the ghost. And she drove.
before the blast, and she plunged headlong into the foaming
billows,.and ever and anon shook her head-brave ship ! as
if she knew that ruin was before her, and had determined
to meet it as a good ship should--bravely, fairly in the face.
"I have yet to disbelieve that every perfect work. of man-
ship, watch, engine-has a semi-conscious life of its own-a
life derived from the immortal soul that gave its idea birth-
for all these things-these ships, watches, engines, are ideas,
spiritual, subtle, invisible, till man hides their nakedness
with wood, iron, steel, brass-the fig-leaves of the Ideal
World. Some people cannot feel an idea, or be introduced
to one, unless it be dressed up in matter. Sometimes we lay
it on paper or canvas, and draw pencil lines around, or color,
it, and then it can be seen ; else we take one and plant it
out of doors, and then put brick and iron, marble and glass

77,

sides to 'it, rendering the spirit visible, and then the people
see the Idea's Clothing, and fancy they behold the thing
itself, just as others, when looking at a human body, imagine
they behold the man, the woman, or the child, A mistake I
None but God ever yet beheld a human Soul, and this it is,
and not the body or its accidents, that constitutes the Ego.
" And the ship surged through the boiling seas, and .her
timbers strained and cracked in the combat, and her cordage
shrieked as the blast tore through, and the tattered sails cried,
almost humanly-like a man whose heart is breaking be-
cause his wife loves him not, and all the world for him is
robed in mourning-and they cried, as if in deadly fear
they were craving mercy at the Storm-King's hands. He
heard the cries, but he laughed ' ho ! ho!1' and he laughed
'ha ! ha!1' and he tore away another sail and hurled it in the
sea, laughing madly all the while ; and he blew, and he
rattled, and he roared in frightful glee ; and he laughed
'ha ! ha!1' and he laughed ' ho ! ho!1' as the bridegroom
laughs in triumph.
"And still the storm came down ; and the yards bent be-
fore the gale, and then snapped asunder, like pipe-clay
stems, and the billows leaped and dashed angrily at her
sides, like a trained blood-hound at the throat of the mother,
whose crime is being black-Chivalrous, well-trained blood-
hounds ! And the waves swept the .decks of the bark--
swept them clean, and whirled many a man into the weltering
main, and sent their souls to heaven by water, and their

76

A

,cc
bHIPAI:BY

N


I'
IIt.c
I,

THE ROSICRUCIAST' STORY.

bodies to 'the= coral caves of Ocean. Poor Sailors! The
Storm-King's ,spirit was roused, and his soul up in arms ;
and the angry waves danced attendance ; the lightning held
high revelry, and flashed its applause in the very face of
haven,' and lit up the night with terrible, ghastly snmiles; and
the s llen gro*i of distant thunder was the only requiem
over the dead' upon that dismal deep.
It Was night. Day had long left the earth, and gone
to' renew his youth in' his Western bath',of' fire---as we all
must--for death is 'our West-ands the gloomy: eidolon had
usurped' Day's throne, arrayed in black garments, streaked
with flaming red, boding no good, but only ill to 'all that
breathed the upper' air. And the turmoil woke the North,
a+A summoned hin to the' wassail';- and he leaped'from, his
couch of :snow, with icebergs for his'pillow, and he stood
erect uponhis throne at the Pole,:and he blew a triumphant,
Joyous; blast, and sent ten thousand:icy. deaths to repi-esent
Ihim at:the' grand, tempestuous revel. They came,. andasithe
waters leaped into the rigging,' they' lashed them there 'with
frost-fetters ; and they loaded the fated ship- with fantastic
robes of pearly, heavy, glittering ice-loaded cher down as-sin
loads down the.transgressor.  '  =1
"And still the 'noble ship wore on-still refused 'the bitter-
death. Enshrouded with massy sheets and: clumps 'of ice,
thegood craft nearly toppled with the weight,'Tor settled
forever in' the yawning deep;' for despite hergrand endeav-
ors--her almost human will and resolution--her desperate
efforts to .save hier precious- freight of human souls-he

" WHERE YOU FALL YOU DIE I"

79

nearly succumbed, and seemed ready to yield them to the
briny waters below: Lashed tostaunch timbers, the tremb-
ling remnant of the .crew soon found - out,.. while terror
crowned their pallid brows, that the tornado was driving
them right straight upon a rock-bound coast-foaming and
hopeless for them,-notwithstanding that from the summit of
the bold, cliffs, a light-house gleamed forth its eye coldly-
cynically .upon the night-in' mockery lighting ,the way to
watery death and ruin. Steadily, clearly it glimmered out
upon the darkness, distinctly showing them the white 'froth
at the foot of the cliff-the anger-foam of the demon of the
storm. Ah God . Have mercyI have mercyI
"Look ,yonder, at the stern of the ship! "What frightful
gorgon is that?  You know not! Well, that is Death sitting
on the taff'ail. See, he moves about: 'Death is standing at
the. cabin door; he is gazing down below, looking up aloft,
glaringout' over the bleak; into the farther night. See'!' he
is stalking 'about the' deck-the icy deck-very slippery it is,
and where 'you fall you die, for he has .trodden on the spot.
A.h, me! ah, ine,!' Woe, woe,  terrible woe is here, Tofi
Clark I ' Tom Clark, don't you hear?  Death stands glam
oring mn you I ":Hark! ,he 'is whistling in the rigging ; he is
swinging on the snapping 3 ends of yonder loosened halliards';
if they strike you ybu are' dead, for they are Whips, and
Death 'is gnapping ''themn  1 H  is calling you, TomhClark;
don't ynu hear him?-M-Balling from his throne, and 'his "throne'
is the Tempest, Tom Clark--the Tempest. Now he iswatch-
ing 'you-klon't' his glance trouble you?' Don't you know

to

'8

#:1y


f'}
!I ,
),    tt
s        i }! liif
,            itfs
-t},s
(k                Su,,
f             }      ail
F             1   1 t;,
(       t  fit11
7   li t
jll
t             '  ;  11
Vf            }   f J
(1                   jth
f13             t   ;I'
ttt t{          ,   i  , ,
f        f
,t+
! 5 l+

THE ROSICRUOIAN8 STORY.

that he is gazing down into your eyes?  How cold is his
glance ! how colder his breath ! It is very, very cold. Ah I
I shiver as I think-and Death is freezing you, Tom Clark ;
-he is freezing your very heart, and turning your blood to
ice. He is freezing you, and has tried to freeze me, in va-
rious ways. -But I bade him stand back-to stay his breath
-for, unlike you, Tom Clark, I am a Brother of the Rosie
Cross, and I have been over Egypt, and Syria, and Turkey ;
on the borders of the Caspian, and. Arabia's shores; over
sterile steppes, and weltered through the ."Deserts-and all
in search of the loftier knowledge of the Soul, that can only
there be found ; and I found what I sought, Tom Clark--
the nature of the Soul, its destiny, and how it may be trained
to any end or purpose. And the History and Mystery of
Dream, Tom Clark, from the lips of the Oriental Dwellers
in the Temple-and Pul Ali Beg-Tom Clark-our Persian
Ramus and our lordly Chief-and I learned the worth of
Will, and how to say, and mean,-'I will be well, and not
sick-alive, and not deadly' and achieve the purpose. How ?
That is our secret-the Rosicrucians'-strange order of men ;
living all along the ages, till they are ready to die-for Death
comes only because man will not beat him back. THEY DIE
THROUGH FEEBLENESS OF WILL. But not so with us, -Tom
Clark ; we leave not until our work is done, and mine is not
yet finished. We exercise our power over others, too, but
ever for their good. Well do I remember, how, when I
lived in Charlestown, there was an old man dying, but I
bade him live. He exists to-day. And long years before

THE WAY OF THE WORLD.

81

that, there reached me-lightning borne, on the banks of the
Hudson, a message saying, 'Come,she is dying!I' and I went,
and stood beside the bed of the sick child, and I prayed, and
I invoked the Adonim of the Upper Temple; and they came
and bade her live. And she liveth yet-but how ungrateful!
" Till our work is done ! What work ? you ask me, and
from over the steaming seas I answer, and I tell you through
the boundless air that separates us : Our work is to help
finish that begun lang syne upon the stony heights of Cal-
vary ; in the shade beneath the olive in Gethsemane, where
I have stood and wept-begun when Time was thousands of
years younger than to-day. Our work, Tom Clark, is to
make men, by teaching them   to make themselves. We
strive to impress a sense upon the world of the priceless value
of a MAN !
"And the vessel drove before the gale straight upon the
cliff. All hope was at an end ; all hope of rescue was dead.
There* was great sorrowing on board that fated bark.
Heads were downcast, hearts beat wildly, ears drank in the
mournful monody of the scene, and lo ! the strong man lifted
up his voice and wept aloud. Did you ever see a man in
tears-tears tapped from his very soul ?  When they laugh
at his misery, whose lives he has saved ? When he discovers
that the man he has loved as a brother, and for whom he has
sacrificed his all during long years, was all the while a
traitor and a foe, a mean and conscienceless traitor, and a
secret, bitter Judas Iscariot, yet wearing a smile on his face
continually ? God grant you never may. ~

80


II 1
S iis
t  t ',
,

THE ROSIORUCIANS STORY.

"The strong man wept ! the very nian,',too, who, a few
brief hours before, had heaped up curses, 'for trifling reasons
upon the heads of others ; but now, in this hour of agony
and mortal terror, fell upon his knees-in the sublime presence
of' God's insulted majesty ; who -now, in the- deadly peril,
lashed 'to:the pump, ,trembling to his soul's deep centre, cried
aloud to Him for--MercyI  God's ears are never deaf ! At
that moment one of His Angels-.Sandalphon-the 'Prayer-
bearer,. in 'passing by that way, chanced to behold the sub-
lime and moving 'spectacle. And his eyes 'flashed gladness,
even through his tears ; 'and he could scarcely speak for the
deep' emnotion that stirred his angel heart ; but still he point-
ed with one hand at the 'prostrate penitent, 'and with  the other
he ' placed.'the: golden trumpet to his lips, and blew i blast
that woke the sleeping echoes throughout the vast Infinitudes
and he cried up, cried up from his very soul: 'Behold! he
prayeth!' And the Silence of the upper courts of Heaven
started into Sound at the glad announcement, 'Behold I.he
prayeth !'. And the, sentence was borne afar on, the fleecy
pinions of the Light, from Ashtoreth to Mazaroth, star echo-
ing to star. And still the sound. sped on' nor ceased its
flight until it struck the pearly Gates of Glory-where was
an Angel standing-the.. Recording Angel-writing in a
Book; and, oh! kow eagerly he penned the sentence, right
opposite Tom  Clark's name.: 'Behold ! he prayeth I' .and
the teams--great, hot, scalding tears, such as, at this mo-
ment, I am. shedding--rolled out from the angel's eyes, so
that he could scarcely see the book-mine own eyes are very
y                         y

dim-but still he wrote.the words. God grant that 'he may
write them;opposite your: name and mine-opposite every-
body's, and everybody's son, and daughter-opposite ALL- our
names !
, "' Behold! he prayeth!,' .And lo! the Angels and the
Cherubim, the Seraphs and the Antarphim, caught up the
sound, -and sung, through the- Dome ; sung it till it was
echoed back from Aidenn's golden walls, from  the East to
the West, and the North and South thereof ; until it echoed
back in low, melodious cadence from the Veiled Throne, on
which sitteth in majesty the Adonai.of Adonim, the peerless
and ineffable Over Soul, the gracious Lord of both the Liv-
ing and the Dead! Are there any Dead.?  No ! except in
sin and guiltiness! . .. And there was much joy in the Starry
World over one sinner that had in very truth repented.,
"And still the ship drove on, and on, and on-great hear.
ven I right on to a shelving ledge of rock, where she was
almost instantly dashed into a million fragments ; masts, hull,
sails, freight, men, all, all swept and whirled with relentless
fury into one common gulf of waters; and yet, despite the din
and roar, there rose upon the air, high and:clear, and shrill:
The startling shriek-the bubbling cry
Of one strong swimmer in his agony.'
" And that swimmer was Tom Clark. Thrice had he been
thrown by the surf upon a jutting ledge of rock ; thrice had
he, with the strength of despair, clung to it, and seized upon
the sea-weed growing on its edges, with all the energy of a.

BEHOLD ,HE- PRAYETH'      8

8

82r


11
f    ytf !
t  E f
t; fl,  t
Tim
3 qi
t          ,yfyi
{f 71S
f'
;if
,  iElfl
et"f, ; f
( ,Ii 1,1
f        ! i t  ' l;f'
3  It
; Et SSS , , i
t              ,  tl!t!
lit
i? (    A      tly ",
I E ,"F t

THE DEEPER SEA.

THE ROSICRUCIANIS STORY.

drowning man. In vain ; .the relentless sea swept him off
again, broke his hold, and whirled him back into the brine.
His strength was almost gone ; exhaustion was nigh at
hand ; and he floated, a helpless, nerveless mass at the mercy
of the tide. And yet, so wonderful a thing is a human soul !
-in that dreadful moment, when Hope -herself was dead,
and he was about to quit forever and forever this earth of
sin and sorrow, and yet an earth so fair and bright, so lovely
and so full of love, teeming so with all that is heroic and
true, so friendly and so kind ; his soul, even then, his pre-
cious and immortal soul, just pluming its wings for a flight
to the far-off regions of the Living Dead-that soul for
which God Himself had put forth all His redemptive energy
-had abundant time to assert its great prerogative, and bid
Death himself a haughty, stern defiance. With the speed
of Light his mental vision flashed back along and over the
valley of the dead years, and saw arrayed before it all the
strange phasmaramas of the foretime. Deeds, Tioughts, and
Intuitions never die ! They are as immortal as the impe-
rishable souls that give them life and being !
" And in that wondrous vision Tom Clark was young
again ; his childhood, youth, maturity ; his sins, sorrows,
virtues, and his aspirations, all, all were there, phototyped
upon the walls of the mystic lane through which his soul
was gazing-a lane not ten inches long, yet stretching away
into the immeasurable deeps of a vast Infinitude. A Para-
dox ! I am speaking of the Soul !-a thing whereof we
talk so much, and know so very little.

85

" The spectres of all his hours were there; painted on the
Wall of Memory's curved lane ; his joys, his weary days of
grief-few of the first, many of the latter-were there, like
green and smiling oases, standing out in quick relief against
the desert of his life. His anxious eyes became preternatu-
rally acute, and seemed to take cognizance both of fact and
cause-effect and principle at the same glance. His mar-
riage life-even to its minutest circumstance-stood revealed
before him. He saw Betsoy as she had been-a girl, spot-
less, artless, intelligent, ambitious ; beheld her married ; then
saw her as she was when she joined her lot with his own.
He beheld her as she had become-anything but a true wife
and woman, for only her surface had been reached by either
husband. There was a fountain they had neither tapped nor
known. Her heart had been touched, indeed ; but her soul,
never. He was amazed to find that a woman can give more
than a husband is supposed to seek and find. More, did I
say? My heaven ! not one man in ten thousand can think
of a line and plummet long enough to fathom the vast ocean
of a woman's affection ; cannot imagine the height and
depths-the unfathomable riches of a woman's Love. Not
a peculiar woman's-but any, every woman's love ; your sis-
ter's, sir, or your wife's, sir, or mine, or anybody's sister or
wife-anybody's daughter.
" It appeared to Clark's vision that a vast deal of his time
had been worse than wasted, else had he devoted a portion
of it to the attentive study of the woman whom  he had, in
the presence of God and man, sworn to love, honor, and

84


THE REOSICRUCIAN'8 STORY.

l
4 314 ) :{3
i   {  + If f+;'i
If
AS
f  ;Slfli
f1t          i'  t r
rii;''
t   i 1,I if
jfl Ilj'
i i! i,'l 11
I''
lllif
oil
:}       fligtj
iu+
j i,
y           l ; fi

protect-;. for no man is fit for Heaven who -does not. love his'
wife, and no man can love his wife- unless he carefully studies
her nature; .and he cannot study her nature unless he ren-
ders himself lovable,: and thus calls out her love ;- and until
her love is thus called out, the office of husband is a suicidal
sham. Thus saith the canons of the Rosicrucian philosophy.
Are they bad ?
And he gazed in -the depths of her spirit, surprised be-
yond measure to find that God had planted so many goodly
flowers therein-even in virago Betsey's soul ! And he said
to himself--as many another husband will, before a hundred
years roll by-' What a precious fool I've been ! spending
all my-time in cultivating thistles-getting pricked and curs-
ing them-when roses smellso very well, and are -so easily
raised ? fool ! I wish'----and he blamed his folly for not
having nurtured roses-for not having duly cultivated the
rich garden God had intrusted him with ; execrated himself'
for not having cherished and nursed this garden, and availed
himself of its golden, glorious fruitage. It was as a man who
had willfully left down the bars for;the free entrance of his
neighbor's cattle, and then wondering that his harvest of hay
was not quite so heavy as desired... Clark saw that it had
been in his power-as it unquestionably is in that of every
married man-by a few kind acts, a few tender, loving words,
to have thawed and melted forever the ice collected by ill-
usage-and every woman is ill-used who is not truly, purely)
loyally lovedI He saw that he might easily have warmed
her spirit toward himself, therefore toward the world, and

consequently toward the Giver. He might have made their
life a constant summer-time-that very life that had been by
his own short-sighted externalism, confirmed into freezing,
stormy, chilling winter.
" Wheat and lentils I have seen in Egypt, taken from a
mummy's hand, where they had lain three thousand and four
hundred years. Some of that wheat I still possess ; some of
it I planted in a flower-pot, and it forthwith sprung up, green
and beautiful, into life and excellence. The mummy's hand
was crisp,. the tombs of Beni-Hassan were not the places for
wheat to grow, for they are very dry. Do you see the point,
the place-the thing I am  aiming at ?  It is to show that
the ills of marriage life are to be corrected not by a recourse
to law-courts and referees, but by each party resolutely try-
ing to correct them in the heart, the head, the home. An-
other thing I aim at is to seal the lips-to strike to the earth
the brawlers for Divorce-the breakers-up of families, who
preach-or prate of-what they have neither brains to com-
prehend, nor manhood to appreciate-Marriage !
" Clark saw, in the soul of his wife, in an, instant, that which
takes me an hour to describe ; for the soul sees faster than
the hand can indite, or the lips utter. He beheld many a
gem, pure and translucent as a crystal, shut up in the caverns
of her nature ; shut up, and barred from the light, all the
while yearning for day. What seeds of good, what glorious
wheat was there. The milk of human kindness had been
changed to ice-froth-sour, and sugar-less, not fit to be
tasted. Inestimable qualities had been left totally unre-
15

$

cc MARRIAGE. Y)

87

86

,.
,
{-
, .
1:
,_,
i


THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

i f    ' i? i
'  ;
, , ,;,
7  F     i 4 j  ?t i ;'
          f  'aJ   4
i   ; ,    ,,,{  ,
i '    , i'iri
r f   , .
;   i
,, ,r  , ,,,
i            ;  t    ' ,i;  {
' !s ; ' i ,!
E   {i1
5 .,'  s i '',t
S       {{{3  S ' ' r I 1 +J
F   [             t
tf    ,: it+i }
f                     ,,;
y       '     ,i
f         '
t   i   +   i  '   i  iv
f
,  ,i
i   {    'f(
/             +
f      %/   {    a   I    !
1       3   i .  jl ji ;
i     i  Vii;!  ''
!   ~      ,il'
t                ',    il',
;  ,
f    a      i',    i   {j
;f,
' +(~ 1;,
-.     ,, ;,;, ,,i
: i
;  ,
,          ,;    '
i                i   ,
,'    ai~
i y ;;,: ,
,
'i    ,II

garded, until they were covered up, nearly choked out by
noxious weeds. God plants excellent gardens, and it is man's
express business to keep them and dress them, and just as surely
as he neglects them, and leaves the bars down, or the gate
open, just so surely along comes the Tare-sower, whether
his name be 'Harmonial Philosopher,' 'All-Right' preacher,
Tom, Harry, Dick, Devil-or something worse.
"Many good things, saw Tom, that might have been
developed into Use and Beauty, that had, in fact, become
frightfully coarse and abnormal ; and all for want of a little
Trying.
"'The saddest words of tongue or pen
Are these sad words: IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN !,
"But.that he was not kind, tractable, and confiding ; and
that he was the reverse of all this. Faults of his own--great
and many ; tremendous faults they were. He had been curt,
short, sarcastic, selfish, exacting, petulant, offish, arbitrary,
tyrannical, suspicious, peremptory-all of which are contained
in the one word MEAN I-and he was mean. Too late he
realized that he might have brought to the surface all the de-
licious, ripe sweets of her woman, and her human nature, il-
stead of the cruel and the bitter. He saw, what every husband
ought to see-but don't-that no woman can be truly known
who is not truly loved 1-and that, too, not with mere lip-
homage, nor with nervous, muscular, demonstrative, show-
love-for no female on the earth but will soon detect all such
-and reckon you up accordingly-at your proper value-

88

A CHEAP BOOK AND A GOOD ONE.              89
less than a straw ! She demands true homage, right straight
from the heart ; from the bottom of the heart-whence
springs the rightful homage due from man to woman-right
straight from  the heart-without deflection. Mind this.
Give her that, and ah, then, then, what a heaven is her pre-
sence I and what a fullness she returns I compound interest, a
thousand-fold repeated !-a fullness of affection so great that
God's love only exceedeth it !-a love so rich and vast, that
man's soul can scarce contain the half thereof. This truth
I know. This truth I tell, because it is such. You will
bless me for it by-and-by, when I am Over the River-if
not before-will bless and thank me-despite of what 'They
say.' Remember that !
"Tom Clark was drowning, yet he realized all this. He
regretted that he had treated his wife as if she were soulless,
or a softer sort of man. He could have so managed as to
have been all the world to Betsey-all the world, and some-
thing more and better, for there are leaves in wedlock's book
which only those can turn and read who' truly love each
other. Marriage is, to some, a coarse brown paper volume,
with rough binding, bad ink, and worse type, poorly com-
posed, and badly adjusted, without a page corrected. It may
be made a super-royal volume, on tinted paper, gilt-edged,
clear type, and rich and durable covers, the whole constitut-
ing the History of two happy lives spent on Hymen Island :
Profusely illustrated, in full tints, with scenes of Joy in all
its phases. Price, The TRYING IVery cheap, don't you
think so ?


[I If IJ
li
1  ,
II

THE ROSICRUCIAN IS STORY.

" He saw, as he floated there in the brine, that he had
never done aught to call out his wife's affection, in which he
resembled many another whiskered ninny, who insanely expect
women to doat upon them merely because they happen to be
married. Dolts ! Not one in a host comprehends woman's
nature ; not one in two hosts will take the trouble to find it
out ; consequently, not one man in three hosts but goes down
to the grave never havin  tasted life's best nectar-that of
loving and being foe   '
"'0 Betsey, Betsey, I know you now !  What a stupid I
have been, to be sure!'
" Profound ejaculation !
"'I've been an out-and-out fool t'
" Sublime discovery !
"Thus thought the dying man, in the dreadful hour of his
destiny-that solemn hour wherein the soul refuses to be
longer enslaved or deceived by the specious warp and woof
of the sophistical robe it may have voluntarily worn through
man a ear, all the while believing it to be Truth, as some
peop e do Davis' and Joe Smith's 'Philosophy.' It is not till
a dose of Common Sense has caused us to eject from our
moral stomachs the nice philosophical sweetmeats we have
indulged in for years, until at last they have disturbed our
digestion-sweets, very pleasant to the palate-like the 'All
Right-ism ' of the 'Hub of the Universe'-but which, like
boarding-bouse hash, is very good in small quantities-seldom
presentea--and not permanently desirable-that we begin to
have true and noble views of life, especially married life, its

A LATE, BUT GRAND DISCOVERY.

91

responsibilities and it&amp; truly royal joys and pleasures. Clark
had reached this crisis, and in an instant the scales fell from
his eyes-the same that blinds so many of us during the hey-
day and vigor of life.
"'If I could be spared, Betsey, I'd be a better man.'
"Bravo ! Glorious Thomas Clark!I Well said, even
though the waters choke thine utterance.
" I would. 0 wife, I begin to see your value, and what
a treasure I have lost-lost--lost!'
" And the poor dying wretch struggled against the brine-
struggled bravely, fiercely to keep off the salt death--the
grim, scowling Death that had sat upon the taiffrail ; that
had stalked about the deck, and stood at the cabin door ;
the-same:fearful Death that had whistled through the rigging,
and ridden on the storm, and which had followed but had not
yet touched him with his cold and icy sceptre."

90


SEA-SICKNESS.

PART VI.

#         'll
ii   ,f     ,ll
1 t S t     I!!

and yet not one of us appreciated the blessing of the epi-
gastrial disturbances-caused by the " bobbery " aforesaid.
Many could successfully withstand any amount of qualms of
conscience-but those of the stomach were quite a different
thing altogether ! and not a few of us experienced strong
yearnings toward  "New   York," and   many "reachings
forth" went in that direction. Indeed the weather was so
rough, that scarce one of us in the cabin fully enjoyed our
breakfasts. As for me, I'm very fond of mush and molasses,
but I really couldn't partake thereof on that occasion. No,
sir ! The gentleman from Africa who stood behind us at
table to minister to our gustatory wants, found his office a
perfect sinecure that morning ; and both I and the Rosicru-
cian, in whose welfare that official took an especial interest
-because, in a fit of enthusiasm, we had each given him four
bits (ten dimes)-seemed to challenge his blandest pity and
commiseration, for we both sat there, looking as if we had
been specially sent for and couldn't go. The waiter-kind
waiter !-discerned, by a wonderful instinct, that we didn't
feel exactly " 0 fat," and he therefore, in dulcet tones, tried
to persuade us to take a litle coffee. Coffee ! Only think
of it ! Just after Mrs. Thomas W. had poisoned her hus-
band through that delectable medium. He suggested pork !
" Pork, avaunt ! We're sea-sick." " Beef." Just then I had
a splendid proof of Psychological infiltration and transmis
sion of thought ; for my friend and I instantaneously re-
ceived a strong inipression-which we directly followed-to
arise from our seats, go on deck, and look over the lee raii.

WHAT BECAME OF THOMAS CLARK.
OUR entertainer ceased to speak, for the evening meal was
nearly ready, and the golden sun was setting in the West,
and he rose to his feet to enjoy the glowing scene. Never
shall I forget the intense interest taken by those who listened
to the tale-and doubtless these pages will fall in the hands
of many who heard it reported from his own lips, on the
quarter-deck of the steamer "Uncle Sam," during. the
voyage begun from San Francisco to Panama, on the
twenty-first day of November, 1861. At first his auditors
were about ten in number, but when he rose to look at the
crimson glories of the sky, fifty people were raptly listen.
ing. We adjourned till the next day, when, as agreed upon
the night before, we convened, and for some time awaited
his appearance. At last he came, looking somewhat ill,
for we were crossing the Gulf of California, and Boreas
and Neptune had been elevating Robert, or in plainer
English, " Kicking up a bobbery," all night long. We had
at least a thousand passengers aboard, consisting of all sorts
of people-sailors, soldiers, and divers trades and callings,

t

93


THE VOICE UPON THE NIGHT.     95

THE ROSICUCIAN'S STORY.

Toward the trysting time, however, the sea smoothed its
wrinkles, and the waters smiled again. Presently the ex-
pected one came, took his accustomed seat, and began the
conclusion of
TOM CLARK2S DREAM
"There's a tide in the affairs of men, which,
Taken at the flood, leads on to fortune."
SHAKSPEARE.
" There's a tide in the affairs of women, which,
Taken at the flood, leas---God knows where."
BYRON.
" Neither do I !  Last night, my friends, we left poor
Tom in a desperate situation, from which it seems necessary
that I should relieve him, but really without exactly know-
ing how-not feeling particularly well from the motion of the
ship last night, it is not easy to think under such circum-
stances ; still, believing as I do, in the sterling motto, Try,
why, I will endeavor to gratify your curiosity, especially as I
perceive we are honored with the presence of the ladies, and,
for their sakes, if not for our own, I feel it incumbent to do
something for him.
"Tom   Clark had, by the waves, been already taken in,
and by this time was nearly done for, so far as easy breath-
ing was concerned.    Slowly, but surely, his vision was
fading away, and he felt that he was fast sinking into Night.
"'Deep the gulf that hides the dead-
Long and dark the road they tread.'

That road he felt that he was rapidly going ; for his senses
were becoming numb, and a nauseant sensation proved that
if he was not sea-sick, he was remarkably sick of the sea,
even to the point of dissolution.
"All dying persons hear musical sounds : all dying persons
see strange, fitful gleams of marvellous light, and so did
Thomas Clark-low, sweet music and soft and pearly light
it was, but while he drank it in, and under its influence was.
being reconciled to Death, there suddenly rose high and
shrill above the midnight tempest, a loud and agonizing
shriek-the wild, despairing, woeful shriek of a woman-and
it was more shrill and piercing than the ziraleet of Egyptian
dame or Persian houri ; and it broke upon the ear of the
perishing man, like a summons back to life and hope. Well
and instantly did he recognize its tones. 'It must be-yet
no !-still it can be no other than her v-voice ! It cannot
be-and I am dy-ing !' and an angry wave dashed over him,
drowning his utterance, and hurling his body, like a wisp of
straw, high upon the ledge of rocks, whence the recoil, or
undertow, was about to whirl it out again into the foaming
waters, when it was prevented by a most wonderful piece of
good fortune, which at that instant, intervened to save him,
at what certainly was the most interesting and critical junc-
ture of his entire earthly existence. Again that sharp voice
rang out upon the storm, and a hand, small, soft, yet nerved
with all a woman's desperate energy-desperate in Love t
clutched him by the hair, and dragged-triumphantly-
dragged him to the hard and solid land, just over the ledge,
15*

+ii
111,  I
tf  i  'i

94


96          THE RO&amp;IORUCIAN'8 STORY.

on a winding path at the foot of the overhanging cliff. It
was Betsey Clark's voice; it was Betsey Clark's hand; it was
she who saved him ; and thus he received a new lease of life
at the hands of the very woman whom, in a former dream,
he had sent so gaily sailing down the empty air-down
through four hundred feet of unobstructed   space--with
boulders at the bottom-solid boulders of granite and quartz
--gold-bearing quartz at that, and very rich, too, but still
quite solid and considerably harder than was agreeable to
either the woman, the buggy, or the horse, for not one of
them was
'Soft as downy pillows are'-
not even Governor Downie's of California.
"It was, indeed, his wife's voice that he heard; it was she
that rescued him from what, in very truth, was a most unfor.
tunate pickle-or brine-as you choose, or botk-but at all
events one into which he would never have got had he not
been far greener than a cucumber.
" In a dream strange things come to pass. And in strict
accordance with the proprieties of that weird life and Realm
-a life and Realm no less real than weird-Tom was speed-
ily cared for, and emptied of the overplus of salt water he
had involuntarily imbibed, while Mrs. Clark carefully at-
tended upon him, and a score or two of good people busied
themselves in saving all they could from the wreck. After
this they all retreated to a comfortable mansion, situated on
the summit of this cliff, in the regions of Dream, and there
the following explanations took place : It appeared that Bet.

sey had been on a visit to her uncle, who kept the light-
house, and had for several days been on the look-out for the
arrival of the vessel-the wrecked one--in which, some time
previous, Tom had sailed on a voyage to Honey-Lu-Lu, the
Bay of Fun-dee, or some other such place that vessels trade to.
The ship had at last been descried, laboring in the midst of
a violent storm, just before dark, and under such circum-
stances as rendered it positively certain that she would drive
headlong upon the rocks at the foot of the very cliff on which
the light-house stood.
"But by a singular coincidence, perfectly unaccountable
anywhere else, save in Dream-land, Betsey Clark had learned
to love Tom dearly, at the precise instant that he had dis-
covered, and repented his own great error. At the instant
that Tom had declared that, could he be spared, he would
be a better man, she saw his deadly peril ; the icicles be-
gan to melt around her heart-.melt very fast-so that by
the time she reached him her soul was in a glow of pure affec-
tion for the man she had until that moment hated. She now
saw, with unmitigated astonishment, that, with all his faults,
there was a mine of excellent goodness ; that God had not
made anything either perfect or imperfect ; and that, after
all was said or done, he was of priceless consequence and
value to her.
" Human nature and woman nature are very remarkable
institutions, especially the latter. We seldom value either a
man or woman, until they are either dead or a long way off,
and then-' Who'd a' thought it ?'

EXPLANATIONS.             9.1


98

THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

I,

AN EPISODE.

99

" When Clark awoke from the gentle sleep into which he
had fallen after the kind people had made him comfortable,
he found his head gillo wed on a bosom a great deal softer
than down or Downie's-that of his loving and tender wife
-for she was so now, and no mistake, in the full, true sense
--A Wife!
"Tom Clark got well. He never grew rich, and never
wanted to. He went to Santa Blarneeo, and had both their
pictures taken in a single frame, on one canvas, and he hung
it over the window in the little room-the little window at
the foot of the bed, whose upper sash was down.
"Years rolled by. Long did they live in the enjoyment of
a domestic bliss too great for expression or description-a
happiness unsullied by an unworthy thought, unstained by
any blot ; for it was full, pure, husbandly, wifely ; and daily,
hourly, did they bless and learn to love each other more.
"' Cease dreaming,' said Hesperina--the beautiful Hespe.
rina, the, Genius of the .Garden and the Star--' cease thy
dream, of Perpetual Pvace, and live to actualize it on thy
way through the World ! Cease dreaming, but awaken not.
Remember the counsel of Otanethi, the radiant, Lord. of the
Temple, the Spirit of the Hour ; and when thou wakest, TRY
to be a nobler and a better man. Waken not yet, 0 frail
and weak ! but still sleep-sweetly, soundly sleep, yet awhile,
and only wake to be a full, true, loving man, forgiving

I

and forgiven!i' And then the peerless being waved her
hand over the prostrate woman, and, lo ! her movements
gave token that the strange and mighty magic was felt, and
that she was swiftly passing the mystic Threshold of that
sphere of new and marvellous activities where the Dream
Fay reigns supreme."
At this point of the story, a lady, Mrs. V., invoked the
narrator's attention, saying : " Thus far, sir, your story is an
excellent one, and its moral is all that could be desired ; yet
how comes it that you, who so strongly deprecate all human
hatreds and unkindness, are yet, in a measure, amenable to
the very thing you decry ? In the proem to the remarkabl9
story you have been reciting, you have admitted that there
was one man toward whom your soul felt bitter. Is .this
right ? Is it just to yourself, your foe, the world, or God?
Answer me 1"
The Rosicrucian studied awhile, and then replied : " It
is not right or just, and yet it is very hard to forgive, much
less to forget, a cool, deliberate injury, such as I suffered at
the pen, and hand, and tongue of the man alluded to. It is
hard to forget "- .
" And still harder to forgive," said one of our company, a
rather young-looking man, who had been one of the speaker's
most attentive auditors. He spoke with much passion.
Said the Stranger : " It is hard to forgive or forget. Few
people in the world are capable of long-continued love in a
single direction, unless self-trained ; fewer still of deliberate,
-continued hatred, and fewer still are competent to full,

IF


THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

free, unqualified forgiveness. I am not. In all my experience,
I never knew but one man in whom unqualified Hatred was
a paramount King-passion, over-riding and surviving all others
whatsoever. I will tell you that man's story as he told it to
me, for he was a friend of mine whom I dearly loved, and
who loved me in return. One day I asked him to open his
heart to me, which, after a while, he did as follows, saying:
'Listen, while I briefly sketch the story of my life. There
was a man who, because I differed with him on questions of
Philosophy-for he claimed to be Nature's private secretary,
which claim all sensible people laughed at, and only weaklings
listened to and believed-he, this man, for this cause, called
in question, not only my own, but the fair fame of the mother
who bore me-that mother being already dead ; and for this
I hate him, as roses hate the foul malarious swamps of earth.
The blazoned motto of that man was-Let no man call God
his Father, who calls not man his brother. I. rose in the
world, and he hated me for the talent God gave me. Envy !
I was in a sense his rival, and as such, this man, snake-like,
used his very utmost influence and power, by tongue and
pen, to injure me-and did-for he took the bread from my
children by depriving meof employment. I wrote a pamphlet,
under a noon de plume, and he joyfully exposed my secret.
Jealousy ! He attacked me personally, grossly in his paper,
misrepresented well known facts-LIEDI Robbing me of fair
fame, as he had my dead mother before me. It is impossible
for 4. to forgive B for a crime against C. I hated him for the
dead one's sake ; that hate I once thought would survive my

death, and be the thing next my heart through all the Eter-
nities. Perhaps it will not. He crushed me for a time, but
" Je renais de mes cendres !" We two are yet in the World.
He will not forget it ! Will I ?  Never !-for the sake of
my dead mother. I can overlook his crimes toward me,
but. before the Bar I hold him ever accountable for the injury
to her-and to my little ones, who nearly starved, while this
fiend of hell, in the garb of heaven, triumphed in my misery,
and gloated over their wrongs. I am the watchful proxy-
the rightful Nemesis, of the living and the Dead ! I put forth
books to the world. This demon in saint's garb, and his
minions, howled them down as bloodhounds .do the panting
slave. More bread lost to my hungry' ones, more stern
calling for reprisals. All men have foes. I had ; and this
man--this impostor, this conscienceless outrager of the dead
and starver of little children, listened gladly, and covertly
published their statements-and that when he morally knew
them to be as false as his own black, polygamous, scoundrel
heart. More wrong done, more little pale hands reaching
vainly forth for bread ; and more hatred laid up for him and
his minions at the bottom of my heart of hearts, the core and
centre of my soul!'
"Thus he spake, and the man's eyes flashed fire as the
words escaped him, proving that they were not the impulsive
utterances of temper, but the deep and cherished results of
tong and bitter years of feeling. Said I : 'And does this
feeling demand a physical atonement?' With a look of
ineffable scorn, he replied: ' Not for an empire's sceptre

;
k
t
.
i

EFFECT OF INJIIBTICE.        101

100


THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

103

would I harm a single hair of that man's head. Were his
wife in a burning building, I would rescue her, or perish in
the trial ; were his children-but, thank God, he cannot
propagate his species--Monsters never do !-but had he such,
and they were hungry, I would work till I fell from exhaus.-
tion, in the effort to procure them bread : vere the man him-
self in want or danger, I would joyously risk my life to save
or serve him. Why ?  Because my revenge is one that could
not be appeased by blood. It is too vast-too deep-and I
will wreak it in other worlds, a myriad ages from now. To
this I pledge my. very soul ; and when hereafter I point him
to what I am, and what he has brought me to, I will thun-
der, in the ears of his spirit, in the very presence of the Judge,
" THOU ART THE MAN !" Wherever he may be, in the Vault,
or in the Space, there will I be also. Nor can this feeling
die before he shall undo his doing, and-no matter what. At
length this feeling of mine grew strong. I loved. It drowned
all love. I was ambitious, and ambition paled before it. I
had wealth within my reach, and turned from the shining gold
to the superior brilliance of the pole star of my passion against
the soul of this man, not against his body. And then I said:
--I will rise from my ashes. I will win fame and name.
I, the Angular Character, will rise, and in my dealings with
this fiend will be as remorseless and bitter as the quintessence
of Hate ; I will suffer patiently, and mount the steeps of
fame, and I will ring the bells at the door of the world till all
the peoples wake, and then, then will I launch him down the
tide of time in his own true colors-stripped to the centre, and

show him to the Ages for the monster that he is. This is a
revenge worthy of an immortal being ; one that merely ex-
tends to the physical person is such as brutes enjoy, but is not
full, broad, deep and enduring enough for a man. As for his
minions they are too contemptible to engage my attention for
a moment ; but in their master's soul will I fix my talons so
deep, that an eternity shall not witness their extraction ; and
henceforth I dedicate all my life to the one purpose of aveng-
ing the dead !'
Five years rolled by after this recital, when again, in a
foreign land, we met each other. In the meantime he had
grown grey. His foe still attacked him ; he had never once
replied, but his hatred had crystallized in the centre of his
soul, and, said he, 'I can wait a million years ; but revenged
I will be yet, by the Life of God !' That is my story ; be.-
leve my friend will keep his oath," said the young man as he
turned from the company on the quarter-deck, and slowly
walked toward the bow of the steamer.
The words he had spoken were bitter ones, and they were
expressed with such a verve-such a vehemence of vigor, in-
tensity and passion, that not one man or woman on the
quarter-deck of the steamer doubted for an instant that him-
self was the injured one, himself the vehement hater, not-
withstanding his implied disclaimer. We saw that he fully,
deeply, felt all he gave utterance to ; and never, until that
Moment, did I comprehend the awful depths and capacity of
the human soul for either love or hatred ; nor had any of us,
even the Rosicrucian, the faintest idea but that every word

" I CAN WAIT A MILLION YEARS!'

f

102


104         THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

of his awful threat came from his heart ; nor the slightest
doubt that if there were a possibility of wreaking his revenge
in the World to come, that he would find that possibility,
and remorselessly execute it. Said the Rosicrucian, as. the
man finished his terrible recital: "This episode comes in
quite apropos to my own story's moral. It is well to beware,
lest we, by some act or word of ours, so deeply plant the
germ of hatred, that in after years it spring up to annoy us,
and mar our peace of mind. Now, I have some knowledge
of the soul, and am firmly convinced that the man who has
just left us means all that he says ; nor would I incur so
dreadful a penalty as that man's hatred, for all the diadems
on the terraqueous globe. His passion is not merely exter-
nal, else he would, by an assault, or by slander, seek its
satisfaction. But his feeling is the offspring of a sense of
outraged justice. I have not the least doubt that the object
of his spleen laughs at the man. But Revenge will outlive
laughter, wealth, position, influence-all things, when of the
nature of the present case. Thus, Madame, your question, I
hope, has been answered to your satisfaction. Of course, I
deprecate hatred, but demand justice.
" But see, the sun is setting again, and the conclusion of
our story must be deferred until after supper, when, if you
will again assemble here upon the quarter-deck, you shall
learn what befell Mr. Thomas W., and what other events
transpired in the little chamber with a window at the foot
of the bed, whose upper dash- was down."

PART VII.

BETSEY CLARK IN DREAM-LAND.
Could I with ink the ocean fill,
were all the earth of parchment made ;
Were every blade of grass a quill,
And every man a scribe by trade-
To tell the love of God above
would drain the briny oceans dry :
Nor would a scroll contain the whole,
Though covering all the arching sky."
"I BELIEVE just as did the writer of these lines," said the
Rosicrucian, as he began his recital in the cabin of the
" Uncle Sam," after partaking of what the purveyors of that
steamship line, in the rich exuberance of their facetious ima-
ginations were pleased to call a supper.
"Betsey Clark was dreaming : It was morning, and the
glorious face of the sun shone in unclouded splendor over the
world-this world, which, to the good man and woman, is
ever a world of Good and Beauty, viewed from the God-side,
whatever it may be from the human. All things were prais-
ing Him--at least all dumb things were, for men so intently
adore their Lares and Penates-Dollars and Dimes-that


THE SILVER-GIRDLED HERMIT.     101

they have scarcely time to devote a worshipful thought to
Him who is King of kings, and regnant God of gods.
"Nature was arrayed in gala robes ; she had put aside her
frowns, and now smiled sweetly on the world, decked gaily
in pearls and light ; she was on her way to attend the wed-
dings of the flowers and the birds. Betsey Clark was a
blythe young girl again. In her dream she was gaily trip-
ping o'er the lea, her happy heart swelling and palpitating
with strange emotions-she was a budding virgin now, and
her heart overflowed with innocence and love, accompanied
with that pure, but strange, wild discontent, and longing
for, she knew not what, but something, which all young wo-
men feel, and are conscious of, as they pass the golden bar-
rier that divides their youth from womanhood. It is, and
was, the holy and chaste desire to love, and be loved in re-
turn-from the heart, sir, right straight from the heart !
Ah, how I sometimes wish I had been created a girl instead
of a boy. Bah! What's the use of wishing ? especially
when all the girls desire an opposite transmigration.
" Betsey's bloom outrivalled the blushes of the newly-wed-
ded roses-roses just married to sunlight, in the morning
dew, with all the trees for witnesses, and all the birds to
swell the sounding chorus ! And she was happy ; ah, how
full of happiness ! and yet it was slightly dashed with bitter
ness-just a taste of gall in her cup of honey-for she ima-
gined a more perfect state, had vague dreamings of some-
thing still higher. So have we all. We have it ! and that
is a certain sign that that higher something is attainable, if

ly. try. Some one said he wanted to eat his friend.
Good , but I want to lose myself in another self-to make
of them twain a unit, which is better ! or to thus blend, and
then lose ourself in the great God-life, which is Best !
"And she gaily tripped over the lea. She was going with
a pitcher of cream, and a basket of fresh eggs, toward a hole
in the rock, not a great way off, to present them to the strange
' Hermit of the Silver Girdle,' who dwelt within a little
grotto just upon the edge of a forest wild, hard by her girl-
hood's home.
"Now, be it henceforth known to everybody, and to eve-
rybody's son and daughter-if the fact is not already patent
unto them-that every female between the ages of fifteen
and twenty-three, is naturally, spontaneously, and inevitably,
in love ; and all that is then wanting, is a suitable and wor-
thy object to lavish it upon. If she finds such, well and
good ; but whether she does, or not, still she must, and will
pour it out-either healthily, or otherwise-on a cat or a man;
a poodle or politics ; marriage or a mirror. Between those
ages the female heart is just as full of love as an egg is full
of meat ; nor can she help it ; it is the birth of affection,
love, romance-the endeared and endearing spring-tide of life
and emotion. Alas ! that the tide too often ebbs, never,
never to rise again this side of the grave ! Then, in the rich
exuberance of her innocence and purity, woman, unlike man
at the same age, thinks no wrong, fears no harm. Gentle,
trustful, noble girl ! Blessed is he who then calls her to
himself-who, in the morning of his life, and her own, shall

106

THE ROSICRUCIAN'9 STORY.

{
t
I

x t(
's
r'
f
i
(',F
{ .x
t ;
,;
ii
f
.
t 9
f
r t
r


THFE THREE PATHS TO HAPPINESS.    109

THE ROSIORUCIAN'S STORY.

win, and worthily wear, her heart ; and abased indeed is
he who then shall gaze upon her with unhallowed eyes, and
seek to lure her from the path of honorable womanhood !
" Presently the girl reached the hermit's abode, saluted
the reverend man, presented her welcome gift, and received
on bended knee his blessing in return.
" They conversed awhile, did that fair girl and that strange
recluse ; the hermit stood on this side, the maiden stood on
that. 'Daughter,' said he, as he placed his white palms
upon her beaming forehead, 'the world and all it contains
amounts to but little, if it, and they, be not improved to the
utmost-the attainment of the soul's aliment, knowledge,
which it assimilates and digests into Wisdom. I have par-
taken of that food for fourscore years and ten-have con-
verted it into wisdom, and expect to be thus engaged during
long centuries to come. Thou seest me living here alone,
dependent upon the charities of such as thou : poor in Cali-
fornia, where even the rocks are retained by golden wedges
in their places, and where diamonds sparkle in a hundred
valleys. Thou seest me shut out from the busy world, and
drawing life from Charity-and Heaven. Such an existence
is suitable for me, but not for such as thee. I am a student
and professor of a strange and mighty magic, for I possess
the marvellous Mirror, and the still more wondrous Crystal
Globe-both of which are heirlooms of the early foretime,
handed down the ages to me, as I in turn shall bequeath
them to the ages yet to be. But thou ! thou art a woman,
and cannot afford to shut thyself out from life, society, and

pleasure, as Rosicrucians do, and must, if they would obtain
the kingdom, the password-that uplifts the sable curtains
that hide a dozen worlds-and the key, by which the doors
of Mystery are opened. Child, for thee there are more fit-
ting things in store than the upper knowing--better than
solitude ; higher charms than study, and abstruse pondering
over recondite lore, and subtle laws of Being and of Power.
Thou in thy way, I in mine, are, and must be, soldiers in the
strife for holy peace ; toilers for the millions yet unborn
mechanics for redemption of the world ; active bees in the
busy hive-thou of active human life, I that of human des-
tiny ;.together, marchers in the grand army whose movement
is ever onward, and which never looks behind. I strive for
the True ; thy destiny tends toward the Beautiful ; together,
we shall reach the goal of Good, moving over thorny roads,
albeit, on the way ; for there are -many dangerous pitfalls,
deep morasses, dismal swamps, gloomy forest-solitudes, and
stony mountains, steep and slippery, that bar man's path to
happiness.  " Prepare ye the way.... Make His paths
straight 1"  Such is thy business-and mine. To accomplish
this duty I am here ; but a different field is thine to labor in.
To achieve thy destiny thou must place thine affections upon
a son of man--thy soul's great love on God alone. You.
must wed, bear children in great agony, yet gloriously, to
your husband, your country, and to Him.
"'I will now, by means of the higher magic, which I am
able to use in thy behalf, show the figure of a man whom you
will hereafter marry. You shall behold him as he is; as he

i
t
.
r
A fj{j
' ' i
f

108


110          THE ROSICRUfCIAN'S STORY.

i COMING UP!"            111

will be, and and as he may become-provided you choose to
make him so ; for a husband is ever and always just what a
woman makes him ! I am now about to display a phanta-
rama of the future before you. Observe, and note well all
thou mayest behold. Speak not thereof to vain worldlings,
who cannot comprehend deep mysteries, such as these ; above
all, utter not one single word while thou sittest at yonder
table, gazing into the Future-revealing Crystal Globe.'
"And so saying, the grey-clad hermit of the Silver Girdle,
who dwelt in a forest wild, led the way to a recess of the
grotto, where the light was very subdued, very dim, and ex-
ceedingly religious. There he seated her before a tripod,
supporting a triangular shelf or table, himself taking a seat
directly opposite. Upon this table he then placed a small,
square, dark-leathern box, opening on brass hinges across the
sides and top. He opened it, while reiterating his caution,
and disclosed to the enraptured gaze of the doubly-delighted
girl-all girls are delighted before they get their husbands-
and many of them are considerably delighted, if not more
so, to get rid of them afterwards !-a magnificent globe of
pure crystal, clear as a dew-drop, radiant as a sunbeam. It
was not over four inches in diameter, was a perfect sphere,
and was altogether beautiful--in this respect, infinitely trairs-
cending that of a soap-bubble of the same size--a humble
comparison, but a just one-for there are few things more
beautiful than these self-same soap-bubbles !
" The first impulse of the girl was to handle this beautiful
trinue-as it was called ; and she made a movement with

that intent, but was instantly prevented by the hermit in
grey, who said: 'Not for a hundred husbands, should mortal
fingers touch that sphere ; for such contact would instantly
rob it of its virtues, perhaps never to be regainedI Look,
my daughter, look, but touch not!l'
" She obeyed, and withdrew her hand, but reluctantly ; for
her fingers itched severely-as what young woman's would
not, under similar circumstances. Vide the Apple and Eve
-by means of which, man fell-but fell up-hill nevertheless
A great trait is this curiosity. It is woman's nature ; it is
her great prerogative ! Eve looked into matters and things
generally, induced Adam to follow her exai ple, and thus was
the main lever that lifted the race out of Barbarism, and into
civilization and decency. So much for this much-abused
' Female curiosity.' But for it, man had remained a brute.
With it, he has risen to a position a long way below the
angels, to be sure, but then he is 'Coming Up.'
" The twain now began to gaze steadily at the magic
globe, maintaining perfect silence for the space of ten mi-
nutes. All was still, hushed, silent as the grave, and only
the wild throbbings of the young girl's heart could be heard.
Presently the crystal began to change, and to emit faint
streams of pale light, which gradually became more pro-
nounced and distinct, until finally there was a most magnifi-.
cent play of colors all over its surface. Presently the rich,
effulgent scintillas, the concentric, irridescent flashings pre-
viously observed, ceased entirely, and in their stead the girl
began to notice two very strange and extraordinary appear-
16


112

THE ROSICRUCIAN 'S STORY.

ances, which, to her and to all save those who are familiar
with such mysteries (and which, although nearly unknown in
this country, are still quite common in the farther East), are
totally unaccountable. In the first place, she became con-
scious that she was breathing an atmosphere highly charged
with a subtle aura that manifestly emanated from the body
of the crystal itself. This air was entirely different from that
which floated in the grotto an hour before, when she entered
with her offering, because it was unmistakably charged, and
that, too, very heavily, with a powerful magnetic aura. I
said 'magnetic;' I should have said 'magnetoid,' for whereas
the former induces drowsy feeling and somnolence, the latter
had a purely opposite effect, for it provoked wakefulness, and
promoted greater and intensified vigilance on the part of
both the woman and the man.
In the second place, there came a remarkable change in
'ithe crystal itself ; for, having lost its brilliant, diamond-like
colors and interchanging rainbow spray, it now became de-
cidedly opalescent, speedily passing into the similitude of a
ball of clear glass, with a disk of pearly opal transversely
through its centre. Very soon even this changed, until it
became like a dead-white wall, upon the surface of which the
eye rested, without the power of penetration as before.
Gazing steadily upon this opaque frame, the girl in a short
time distinctly and perfectly beheld, slowly moving across
that pearly shield, as if instinct with life, numerous petite,
but unmistakable human figures !-figures of men and women,
tiny to the last degree, but absolutely perfect iu outline and

LOCALITY OF " STARNOS AND COR.

113

movement. And they moved hither and thither across the
field of vision ; she saw them moving through the streets of
a city. A little closer !-' as I live, they are going up and
down Bush street !'-an aristocratic thoroughfare in the great
city known in this story as Santa Blarneeo. This fact she
instantly recognized, with that strange and inexplicable an-
achronism peculiar to Dreams, and the still stranger incon-
sistency peculiar to dreamers and voyagers to the 'Summer
Land.'
"Gradually these tiny figures appeared to enlarge, or
rather, she saw them in such a perspective, that they looked
like full-sized persons some little distance off. Even while
she gazed, the crystal changed again, or rather, vanished
from her perceptions altogether, the figures enlarged--ap-
proached, as it were-and she became a passive spectator of
a scene at that moment transpiring-but where ?  Certainly
not in this world of ours, nor in Dream-land, nor in fancy's
realms, nor in the home of souls you read about in the 'very
funny' descriptions of 'Starnos and'Cor,' nor in 'Guptarion,'
nor around the 'Lakes of Mornia,' nor among the 'Pyra-
midalia,' nor in 'Saturn,' nor in any of the gloriously ridicu-
lous localities imagined by A. J. Davis, and put forth by him
in the delusive hope that any sane man or woman could be
found green or fool enough to swallow. Few men better
deserve the name of impostor than the author of 'Guptarion,'
'Mornia,' 'Foli,' ' Starnos,' 'Galen,' 'Magic Staffs,' 'Harm
only-Man,' and 'Cor,'-not one of which has the least ex-
istence on the earth, under, or above or around it ; but the

iI


114         THE ROSIORUCIAN'S STORY.

true and exact location of which is on an extensive and very
soft spot just above their author's ears, and the soft spots of
his followers, for it is morally certain that no one with even
an ordinary modicum of-not sanity, but common sense, can,
would or could accept his funny 'Philosophy ?' as true,
"'Where, then, was the true locality of the scene that
Betsey saw taking place ?' you ask. And I answer, and I
tell you, in nearly the words of the strange Hermit of the
Silver Girdle, when explaining it to Betsey Clark : All these
strange things are occurring, not in any sort of phantom-
world, but in another material earth, quite as solid as this.
This crystal is a magic telescope through which we may
view whatever we desire to, whether on this earth or off it.
" Listen ! Space is by no means limitless, but is a globu-
lar or elliptical, definite region-the play-ground of the
Powers-and is bounded on all sides by a thick amorphous
Wall, of the materials of which new worlds and starry sys-
tems from time to time are fashioned. This Wall is thicker,
a million-fold, than the diameter of the entire menstruum
wherein this universe is floating. Surrounding this universe,
on all sides of this wall, are seven other universes, separated
as is this, from all the others ; and they all differ from our
own and the rest, as differs a volcano from a sprig of rosemary
-that is to say, utterly-totally. The material worlds of
each of these other universes outnumber the sands of the
desert, yet their number is precisely that of the one in which
we live ; but they are larger, for the earth that corresponds
to, and bears the name of this of ours, is, in the smallest of

the other universes, quite as bulky as the sun which gives us
light, and the other solar bodies in proportion. The universe
next higher is immeasurably larger than the one just alluded
to. It has the same number of material worlds, and the
earth corresponding to this of ours is as large as the solar
system in which we are. That of the third is as large as the
solar system of the second, and so on to the last of the series
of seven ; but not the last in fact, for outside of, and sur-
rounding the entire seven, is another Wall, separating them
from forty-nine other systems, in ascending grade. I cannot
now give you any information respecting the sublime reali-
ties of these forty-nine, nor of the regions and realms STILL
BEYOND ; therefore I recall your attention to this world and
sphere of being.
"On earth there are seven distinct classes or orders of
men : the INSTINCTUAL, AFFECTIONAL, INTELLECTUAL, INTU-
ITIONAL, ASPIRING, INDIFFERENT, and WISE, to all of whom a
different destiny is decreed. Organizations determine desti-
nies ! Every nebulae seen in the far-off heaven is a system
of worlds. That wonderful family of stars to which our sun
belongs is, with all its overflowing measure of star-dust, but
a single cosmos ; and there are myriads of such within the
confines of this present universe, and before we cross the vast
ocean of Ethylle, and reach the Wall alluded to. All things
are in halves ; male, female-negative, positive-light, dark,
and so on. So is the nebulae of worlds to which we belong.
Now, remember what I have said of the resemblances be-
tween this earth and universe and the seven others beyond

illt

THE cc MIRANDA" THEORY.     116


116         THE ROSICRUCIAN S STORY.

THE " MIRANDA"E THEORY.      117

the Wall. Precisely such likenesses exist between the worlds
of the respective halves of our own system.
"At various distances, flecking the vault, we behold suns
and systems innumerable. These all belong to this, the
female half of our system. Beyond them lies a vast ocean
of Ether, separating the Continents. Across that Ocean, at
a distance incomputable by the human intellect, is the male
half of our system. There-there is a sun precisely as large,
as brilliant, and as hot as ours-and no more so. Around
that sun fiery comets whirl, planets revolve, and meteors
flash, just as they do hitherward. There is a Venus, Mer-
cury, Asteroids, Mars, Jupiter, and all the other planetary
bodies, just as here, and of the same dimensions. A globe
there is called Earth ; it has a moon, an Atlantic, Pacific,
Mediterranean, and 'other seas, exactly equivalent to ours.
It has a California, a San Francisco, Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Pittsburg, just
as here ; and their names, as are those of its trees, countries,
counties, town, people, capitals, are exactly as on this earth.
There is a President Lincoln, and General Fremont ; a
Thurlow Weed, and Cullen Bryant ; an Agassiz, and Ho-
race Greeley ; Atlantic Monthly, and Harper's Magazine; a
New   York Mercury, an Independent, edited by Beecher,
Tilton and Leavitt--and they deal the same as do their simi-
litudes here. The streets and omnibuses are precisely as
here ; Wall street is as full of thieves, and contractors get
fat off their country's gore as they do here. There is a
Rebellion there, and Union Generals sell themselves to Trea-

son just as here-while the menu who could and would save
the nation are left out in the cold, in spite of the Tribunes,
Posts, and Times-all of which long since pointed out the
road to Richmond and to victory-and were laughed at just
as in our planet.
"In that far-distant world there is at this moment a
steamer, 'Uncle Sam,' sailing across the Gulf of California,
as at this moment we are, and on board of her there are just
as many men and women as on this one, and their persons,
names, habits, features, motives, hopes, fears, characters,
secrets, and intellectual and moral natures, are precisely the
same as our own, on board this ship. Our namesakes there
are at this instant doing, thinking, acting, reading, as are
we ; and some of them are listening to a very strange story,
and its still stranger episodes, told by a Rosicrucian-just
such a personage as myself-indeed my Very Self-in the
self-same form and feature. And I say, and I tell you, that
the alter ego-the living portrait of each man and woman in
this circle, is thinking of him or herself, and of me and my
revelations, at this moment, with the same stupid levity, with
the same deep and awful impression of their truth, in the
same manner, whatever it be, as are all of you at this mo-
ment. And some there, as here, set me and my story at
naught-stigmatize me as an enthusiast or dreaming poet,
as do some of you. Others believe my truths. You have
heard that coming events cast their shadows before them,
and that Prophecy has been demonstrated true. Behold
the solution of the world-enigma. Events transpire in that


118          THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY

THE 4"MIRANDA" THEORY,    ~119.

other world a trifle sooner than they do here ; yet you must
remember that there is a, vast interval of space, and there-
fore time, that must be bridged by even that swift courier,
Sympathy. According as a man there, and his counterpart
here, are fine, aspiring, and spiritual-minded, so is their rap-
port across the awful gulf; and the male half, the more per-
fect portion of each man or woman's self, very frequently
telegraphs the other, often a long time before the event be-
comes actualized on this earth. You have heard of Fays and
Fairies. Listen, and learn the truth concerning them :
Remembering that no human soul can by any possibility quit
the confines of this universe until it has exhausted the whole
of its, the universe's, resources, and has attained all of Love,
Will, Majesty, Power, Wisdom and Dignity, that this vast
cosmos can give it ; after which it sleeps awhile, but will
awake again to the exercise of Creative Energy, on the
thither side of the Wall-both duplicates sleep at once ; for,
after their deaths on the material earths, they exist apart,
but sustain the same relations, in certain aromal worlds at-
tached to their respective primary homes. At the final
deaths, they blend forever, their stature is increased, and
they enter, through the Wall, that earth resembling the one
whereon the double unit had its birth originally.
"You have heard of Metempsychosis, Transmigration, of
Reincarnation, and of Progress. Listen, and learn more :
Not only the inhabitants of the countless myriads of worlds
in this material and aromal universe, but also the material
and aromal worlds themselves, are in a constant state of pro

gressive movement. By aromal worlds I mean the aerial
globes that attend each planet. They are places where souls
rest awhile after death, before they commence in earnest the
second stage of their career ; and this state is an interme-
diate one, just like sleep, only that they are conscious and
active while there ; but it is an activity and consciousness,
not like, but analogous to that' of Dream. Every world,
and assemblage of worlds, is periodically reduced, by exhaus-
tion, but at enormously long intervals, into ,Chaos, and is
then reformed, or created anew, still, however, being the same
world. After this passage, each system and world becomes
vastly more perfect than before ; but, owing to the dimin-
ished quantity of Spirit or essence which has been consumed
in giving birth to hosts of immortal armies, each system and
world is vastly smaller than before. This is for two reasons,
one of which I have just stated ; the other is, in order to
make room for new cosmi, and new worlds, both of which
are being constantly created from the material of the Wall;
and the wall itself is the condensed effluence of the Maker-.
in short, it is God-Od, and therefore inexhaustible.  The
majority of those who have lived on any world are re-born in
it after its restitution, they, in the meantime, having grown
correspondingly clean and perfect. The same relative propor-
tions between a world and its occupants is still preserved, and'
never varies ; and, 'consequently, the six-foot man and the five-
foot woman of one career, find themselves, in their next state,
occupying five and four-foot bodies respectively. The present
is our thirty-fourth Incarnation. Originally we were taller
16*


THE ROSICRUCIAN S STORY.

A FOOLS NEVER DREAM!          121

than many of our present trees, and coarser than our mountains.
We are smaller and better than ever before, and our worst
man is better than the best of the preceding state. The
worst, in the next change, will be better than our best.* To
illustrate, let me say, that the following persons, viz.: Thur-
low  W     -, Abraham       L-    ., Russel L     -, J. Gordon
B  .-, Henry      J. R-      , Win. Cullen B-       , Jefferson
D--, John C. Fre-,--- James Buch-, Wigfall, Charles
Sum       , Horace G         , Fernando- W         , George B.
Mc-, Gen. J. H-k-r, Dr. H. F. G--d--r, Charles T-n-s,
Lizzie D-      and myself, respectively, were, previously to
the last change : the first, a feudal lord ; the second, an edi-
tor; the third, a Danish prince ; the fourth, a court-jester ;
the fifth, a missionary ; the sixth, a generalissimo ; the
seventh, a harpist ; the eighth, a theatrical manager ; the
ninth, a knife-grinder ; the tenth, a privateer ; the eleventh,
a preacher ; the twelfth, a schoolmaster ; the thirteenth, a
trumpeter ; the fourteenth, a politician ; the       fifteenth, a
hunter ; the sixteenth, a very little boy, died exceedingly
young ; the seventeenth, an emperor ; the eighteenth, a born
* Extremes meet. The sublime impinges on the ridiculous. The substance of
the text-save only that I have changed the names-was put forth seriously as
truth, by a recent British author. Here, of course, it is given for what it is worth,
which may be more than some imagine. Viewed in one light, these notions are
almost as absurd as are the desperately-funny lucubrations of Andrew Jackson
Davis, concerning what he calls the " Summer Land," which many people regard
as true revelations of Man's post-mortem life, when, in fact, they ar monstrous
abortions, devoid of even common sense, and are without one particle of truth
from beginning to end.

queen ; and the last, a barber's clerk ; so that it is evident,
that though our progress is slow, still that we are ' Coming
up.' Little as our actual worth may be, still we are better
now, generally speaking, than in the former stage. Thus,
we will grow smaller at every change. Some worlds, and
their dwellers, in this universe have thus decreased, and being
sometimes seen by people here, have been called Fays or
Fairies. The world has yet to undergo some thousands of these'
changes, until at last we become very small indeed, which will
occur when conception is no longer possible in the universe,
either in the vegetable or animal worlds ; and then will occur
the change and transference beyond the Wall.
" Betsey Clark was beholding persons and events of that
other world-half of this, our little staying-house, beholding
things through that fairy lense-that beautiful magic crystal,
through which the human eye can see, the human brain sense,
things that have occurred, are occurring, or are to occur,
upon the world-stage of this our life's theatre.
"It is an established fact that fools never dream! Wise
people often do ! And those belonging to the latter cate-
gory cannot have failed to notice that things, dates, persons,
circumstances, and probabilities, are considerably mixed up,
as a general thing, in dreams. Their anachronisms are es-
pecially remarkable and provoking, and indicate that time is
of but little, if any, account, so far as the soul, per se, is con-
cerned. A dream of a minute often embraces the multifa-
rious experience of a century. This instant you are hob-nob-
bing with* one of the pre-Adamite kings on the plateaus of

120


WHAT THE STATUE RESEMBLED.        123

eastern Asia, and in the next are taking wine with Pharaoh
and Moses on the banks of the Nile ; now you are delivering
an oration before Alexander the Great, and in a jiffy find
yourself stuffing ballots on Cornhill in an election for ward-
constable ; now you are contemporary with Sardanapalus or
Thothmes III., and in half a second you are delivering a
' Spiritual Lecture' in Lamartine Hall, having paid fifty
cents for the privilege of listening to your own 'Splendid and
Overpowering Eloquence' Taken together, dreams, like
Complimentary Benefits, are queer concerns. Such was
that of Betsey Clark ; for at one moment of time she was a
virgin girl, a wife, a widow, and a wife again. She recog-
nized at once the facts of her girlhood, that she had carefully
deposited one husband in a hole in the ground, and was in
high hopes of performing the same kind office for a second-
Mr. Thomas W
"Presently the view in the crystal faded away, and in its
stead there came the appearance of a large and splendid ate-
lier, containing numberless statues, in a more or less finished
condition, standing on pedestals or in niches round the wall-
sides. The sculptor was absent. It was evident at a glance
that his images were not hewn of marble, but of some other
material, which needed but a touch of fire to make them
start up into life, liberty, and light. It was a man-factory---..
a place where people were carved out to order by a wonder-
ful Artist, who had just opened business thereabouts and
who, judging from appearances, was already in a fair line of
patronage, and quite likely to do well, if not better.

" Standing near the centre of the apartment, propped up
with bits of wood, Betsey saw the exact, likeness, in all
respects, of Mr. Thomas Clark-but the. figure was unfin-
ished-soft, puttyish, and doughy as a Northern Politician.
"This statue stood semi-erect, and strongly suggested an
invalid kitten, leaning on a hot brick ; or, a modern philoso-
pher of the spread-eagle and Progressive school, when the
contributions are small. The figure was labelled 'Tom
Clark, as he was ;' that is to say, soft, ductile, capable of
being moulded into the Ruffian or the Man. Directly beside
it was another statue, closely resembling the other in many
points, but yet different. It was labelled 'Tom Clark, as he
is !' that is to say, it looked as if abundantly capable of feed-
ing on tenpenny nails, dining on files, and supping upon pigs
of iron. It looked, for all the world, as if the greatest pos-
sible favor that could be done for it, would be to tread on the
tail of its coat, or knock a chip off its shoulder, or as if its
supreme delight would be to be permitted to wrap itself in a
star-spangled banner ; move across the room in three.strides
and a straddle ; fire off two horse-pistols, and die like a son
of ar-gun, after having exercised a special penchant for
divorced women-separating wives from their husbands, for
the sake of position, wealth, beauty and passion. It looked as
if it was troubled about stealing rain-producing theories-
not for stealing, but for being caught at it. It loo1ged as if
its heart was breaking, because it had not brains enough to
be a Pantarch-or the tenth-part of one. It looked as if
its heart would burst with envy, because other men had

122.         THE ROSICRUCIAN) S fiTORY.


124         THE ROSICRUCIAN S STORY.

friends, and power, and applause, and merit, in spite of its
little, perked-up, seven-by-nine, skull-cracked soul-poor cam-
bric, needle-eyed soul, twelve hundred and eighty trillions to
the half ounce. It looked, for all the world, as Tom really
did the very last time he came home, just before they lay
down upon their couch, in the little chamber in which was
the little window, whose upper sash was down-that is to
say, short, crusty, crisp, and meaner than 'git ;' as-he felt
before they both lay down, and dreamed such 'very funny'
dreams-mean, despicable, iron-hearted Tom Clark, the
plague of her life, bane of her existence, and source of all
her troubles. So at least it seemed to the lady in her curious
vision. Presently both these figures slowly faded from her
sight, and in their stead there arose through the floor a third
figure, labelled, 'Tom Clark, as he may be.' While she was
admiring the vast superiority, in all respects, of this new
statue, a fourth human figure entered the atelier ; this figure
was alive, and, mirabile dictu! the woman beheld the exact
counterpart of-herself!-clad as a working artist-a sculp-
tor, with apron, paper-cap, and dusty clothing, all complete,
as if she had just left chiselling the dead marble. This lemur
of herself appeared deeply gratified at the appearance of the
statue ; for, after surveying it awhile, she proceeded to arm
herself with a flame-tipped baton, wherewith she touched
the figure in various places, but mainly on the head, and over
the region of the heart. The effect of these touches of flame
was to make the figure move ; and, in five minutes the dead
mass was"warm with life, vitality and genius-for the phan-

tom-artiste appeared to endow the figure with a portion of
har own life ; and a closer inspection revealed the curious
fact that the flame at the end of the staff-which was hol-
low--was fed from a deep well of subtle, fine and inflam-
mable ether in her own heart.
"The statue lived. It was Tom Clark, and no mistake ;
but Heaven ! what a change !-what a difference between
the actual and the ideal man ! His features fairly blazed
with the fires of Genius and Ambition ; and they beamed
like a sun, with Friendship, Intelligence, Truth and Manhood
-they all held high court in his soul, and radiated from his
inspired features ; his very presence charged the air with
Mind, though his lips spoke never a word, breathed never a
syllable. And now Betsey heard her alter ego speak ; and
it said to the living statue : 'Rise, Tom Clark ; rise, and be
a Man-be yourself. Rise!' And it rose ; stepped from
the pedestal, erected its head-and such a head !-while she,
the phantom artiste, with careful tread, and anxiously holding
her nether lip between her teeth, slowly retreated backward
from the room, quitting it through the door by which she had
entered a little while before. She was followed majestically
by the statue, which moved with power and grace, as if
charged to the brim by God's Galvanic Batteries.
" Scarcely had the two phantoms left the room, than the
woman on the stool-the real Betsey Clark-followed their
example with a sudden bound, exclaiming, as she did so,
despite the warning of the Hermit of the Silver Girdle (for
whom at that moment she didn't care ;-not even a piece of

THE PHANTOM ARTISTE.        125

,c
C


THE MYSTIC VOICE.          127

126          THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

a fig), '.My husband ! my husband' Human nature,
especially woman nature, could stand the pressure no longer.
She felt and acted as she felt-as every woman has, since the
year ONE-and will, until Time and Eternity both grow grey.
'My husband !' there spake the woman. In an instant the
Hermit of the Silver Girdle was in a very great and unpre-
cedented fluster.
"Silly girl ! didn't I tell you not to speak ?  Only look!
see how you have gone and done it !-done me ! Oh, dear !
if I warn't a Rosicrucian, I'd get excessively angry, Dorg on
it, if I wouldn't' and in his trouble, he pronounced 'dog,'
with an r. Commend me to a female for upsetting the best
calculation of the wisest Rosicrucian that ever lived. I speak
from experience
I told you not to open your lips, and here you've gone
and spoken right out ! What's the consequence ?' exclaimed
the venerable grey-beard. 'Why, the spell is broken-the
charm fled-nor can either be recalled before the sun has set
and rose again, and once more declined toward the western
sea. Familiar as I am with the secrets of Galv and the
mysteries of magic crystals, I know that you have done very
wrong ; for no one is fit to consult Destiny by their aid who
is not competent to keep silence for an hour, no matter what
the temptation or provocation to break it may be. Now hie
thee homeward. To-morrow thou mayest return again, pro-
vided thou wilt obey me, and speak not a syllable while the
phantasmal game of Fate is being played before thine eyes.'
"The Hermit of the Silver Girdle had spoken truly ; for

at the very first movement of her lips, the whole scene of
enchantment vanished into thin air, leaving only a three-cor-
nered table and a little glossy-looking ball behind.
" To depict her chagrin and disappointment at this abrupt
termination of a very strange affair, is a task totally beyond
my capacities. She bounced out of the grotto in a miff,
tossing her pretty head in a manner peculiarly adapted to
play the very Old Scratch with the soft and susceptible heads
and hearts of the male 'sect'-especially their heads ; but
she had no idea of abandoning the adventure at that point--
not she ; but was fully resolved to see it out next day, even
if she bit her tongue in two, in the endeavor to keep still.
Warriors, statesmen, philosophers, and well-read men can
comprehend the sublimity of her resolution, because they
know that of all earthly tasks, the one assigned herself was
the greatest, most heroic, and one compared to which the
twelve labors of the Greek god were mere child's pastime.
At all events, to keep perfectly silent she would certainly--
'Try,' said a voice, right beside her ear ! She started,
attributing the circumstance to mere fancy ; but again the
magic word was, by unseen lips, gently, softly whispered in
her ear. 'Try,' it said-and the word went echoing through
her very soul. Whence came the voice ?  Who was. it--
what was it that spoke ? Certainly not - herself, nor the
Hermit. When was it, where was it, that she had heard
that voice- and word before ? When, how, where had it
made so deep an impression on her mind ? Was it in a dream ?
Who can tell? she could not. My hearers, can you?


VERY CURIOUS S--VERY TRUE!   129

"Next morning, bright and early, the young girl returned
once more to the grotto of the Hermit of the Silver Gir-
dle, who dwelt on the shady borders of a forest wild. An
hour or two elapsed in friendly converse and admonition;
and. now again behold the dissimilar twain once more seated
silently before the little table, on which glittered, as before,
the rare, pearl-disked, magic, wonder-working crystal globe.
Again, as before, the glorious play of colors came and went.
Again it faded, and she saw the atelier, the artiste, and the
artiste's living statue ; but this time Betsey could look right
through its body, as if it were made of finely-polished glass.
Tom Clark stood before her. She saw and comprehended
him on all sides-soul, spirit, body ; and though she was
neither a strong-minded woman, a 'lecturess on philosophy,
'The good time coming,' nor 'Woman's sacred and delicate
work,'--and though she knew but little of the human organ-
ism, beyond a few familiar commonplaces---yet she compre-
hended enough of the glorious mystery before her to be
aware that the red, pulsing lump just beneath its throat'was
technically known and considered as the heart ; and she
couldn't help admiring its wonderful and mighty mechanism ;
its curious movements, mystical arrangements of parts, and
adaptation of means to ends ; its auricles, valves, and veins ;
its ventricles, and its pump-tapping the well of life, and
forcing its water through a million yards of hose, plentifully
irrigating the loftiest gardens of man's body, and hence, of
his imperishable soul. The inspection was almost too much
for the girl, who had. liked to have screamed out her won-

derment and delight ; but having made up her mind to keep
still this time, she, by dint of much handkerchief and tongue-
biting, succeeded, to the eternal credit of herself-or any
other woman !
"'That which you see,' said the Hermit, who of course
had the privilege of talking as he pleased, 'is a man's heart,
in full play. It is, as you perceive, filled with blood, whose
office is to give life to the body and vigor to the mind. But
the heart has other chambers than those containing the
venous and arterial fluids ; for all its walls and valves con-
tain innumerable small cells; and these-cells secrete and con-
tain certain aeriform fluids far more potential than blood,
and which subserve the ends of a higher and far more won-
derful economy. There are two kinds of blood ; so also are
there two kinds of the subtle fluid I have mentioned : one
sort is born with us, and we come into the world with exactly
one half of these cells full, while the other half are entirely
empty ; and so they must remain until they are filled from
the heart of some one else. Males are born with the cells of
the left side empty, females with those of the right unfilled,
while the other cells of each are always full. These fluids
are real, actual, perceptible, but imponderable. Their name
is Love; and when things take their proper and natural
course, the fluid flows out from the cells of a woman's heart
into the empty ones of a man's ; and the full cells of a man's
heart fill the empty ones of a woman's, in which case they
are said to " love each other." Two men cannot thus love ;
nor can two females. Many of either sex travel from the

128         THE ROSICRUCIA N1 8 STORY.


HOW DIVORCES ARE OBTAINED.     131

cradle to the grave without either filling, or being filled in
turn; for it is a law that love cannot flow unless it be tapped
by the opposite party ; and it can only be tapped by KIND-
NESS, GENTLENESS, RESPECT-these three ! The unloved and
unloving are only half men and half women-and, believe
me, my child, there's a mighty sight of Halfness in this
world of ours ! Much of it comes of not Trying to have it
otherwise. People--married people, especially-devote half
their days to growling because they have not got somebody
else's wife or husband, when the fact is that their own
partners are quite good enough-as they would find out with
a little proper endeavor. Men expect a woman's love to
bubble up all the time. Fools ! why don't they sound its
depth, and bring it to the surface ? There are altogether too
many divorces--a divorce first, and the next step-is danger-
ous. I knew a wife of three divorces ; I knew a man the
husband of two consecutive divorcees. Good intentions !
Bah ! Hell is paved with such. I know of fifty broken-
hearted women whose husbands, after wearing them out,
sneaked off to Indiana and robbed them of name, fame, life,
and hope ;-the demons'! Out upon the wretches ! The
woman who has wasted her youth and bloom upon a man who
then wants a divorce, and permits him to obtain it, is a fool.
He promised for life. Make him keep it, even if you invoke
the law's strong arm. If both agree, that alters the case. I
have a legal acquaintance ,in New York who drives a large
trade in the divorce line, at twenty-five dollars a head. I
feel called upon to expose the infernal methods by means of

which it is done, and I call upon the Legislature to see to it
that the thing is not suffered to go on. I A. is a lawyer ; B.
and C. are husband and wife. B. wants a " divorce without
publicity ;" goes to A. and pays a fee to secure it, but has
no legal quibble by means of which to obtain it. A. gives
him the following counsel : " Go to a brothel, take up with
an inmate thereof ; call her D. ; make three or four male
and female acquaintances (E., F., G., and H.), introduce
them to D. as your wife ; leave town a day or two, but take
care that D. is well watched in the interim. Of course she
will avail herself of your absence to ply her vocation. E., F.,
G., and H. furnish the most incontestable and damning proof
of her supposed guilt.' The witnesses may or may not know
your precious scheme. You prosecute the leman under your
wife's name-she, of course, knowing nothing about the pro-
ceedings-poor thing ! The court takes the'evidence, hands
it over to a referee, who passes on it ; returns it, affirmed, to
the court, which forthwith enters a decree of perpetual
divorce. A scoundrel goes unwhipped of justice, and an
honest woman's reputation is forever damned !
"'Legislators, I tell you that these things are done every
day ! I was told it-could not believe it-and assuming to
be 'desirous of such a decree, received the above counsel,
word for word, from a practitioner at the New York ~bar.
Legislators, here is a crime worse than murder ! Will you
sanction it longer?  How prevent it ?  Summon the wit-
nesses and performer of this marriage ; or at least prove the
identity of the woman or the man, as the case may be-for
women practice in that court also!I

130          THE ROSICRIICIAN1 9 6TURY.


WHERE DEAD BACHELORS GO!I      133

132         THE ROSICRUCIAN S STORY.

"'There would be far less of this sort of iniquity, if there
were fewer blatant philosophy-mongers afloat on the tide of
the times, inculcating their morbid, detestable, blasphemous,
brothel-filling, "JHarmonial " theories, all of which directly
pander to the worst vice a man can have -Meanness.
People insanely look for and expect perfection in others--
not only without the slightest claim thereto themselves, but
without the least attempt in that direction-which is a very
suicidal policy to pursue. Such soon come to be vampires,
consuming themselves and destroying others-ravening tigers
at their own fold's side ! Sometimes one person's affection-
which is akin to love-goes out toward and clings round an-
other ; but Death ever flaps, his wings by the side of such,
when that other fails to give it back. The unloving loved
one, if such a thing be possible, is a born thief, from the cradle
to the clouds ; .and there are a great many such robbers in
the world.'
But how is one to love when one don't feel like it, or
has attractions in another direction ?' asked Betsey.
" ' Where duty and honor point, there should the attraction
lie ! Whosoever shall render themselves lovable and lovely,
can no more help being loved than smoke can help ascending
through the air. Make yourself agreeable to the partner of
your lot in life, and that partner can no more help loving you
than mirrors can help reflecting.
"'The heart of yonder statue, which is that of the man
who is destined to be a future husband of yours,' said the old
man--pointing to the first figure of the previous day, which
had, together with the second, re-appeared upon the scene,

' will be only half full by reasonof your withholding and re-
fusing all tender wifeliness ; you will rob him and yourself of
the better meat of life ; your years will be gloomy ones ; you
will make him wretched, and be the same yourself-cheat
your bodies of health, your souls of happiness and vigor !
Take heed ; correct the fault. You "can't ?"  There's no
such word. TRY-!'
"Turning now to the second figure of the previous day, he
observed :'See ! Tom Clark's heart is empty. All its cells
are filled with a void-hollow as the apples of Persia's arid
. wastes. Have mercy, Heaven, on him whose heart throbs
not with the rapturous burden of a woman's love ! Pity
him whose soul groweth not tender with the love-light beam-
ing from a baby's eyes ! Ah, what a world of nameless glory
flashes from an infant's eyes ! They are telescopes through
which my soul sees Heaven--through which I watch the
mazy dance of starry worlds, and behold the joys of sera-
phim. We Rosicrucians love babies-seed of the ages-and
their mothers, too-because they are such ; for we believe
that after death the maids fair worst-the wives fare better ;
but no tongue or pen can express the rapture that awaits
those who have borne sons and daughters to the world and
heaven ! Bachelors !  Bah ! I will pass by such cattle,
merely remarking that their place is not t'o be found in heaven,
or the other place. They repair in a body to Fiddler's Green
-and ought to stay there, if they do not!I'
"And Betsey gazed on the forlorn figure of poor Tom-
who was all one-sided, crooked, lean ; his hopes and joys were


THE 4 PRETTY LITTLE GAME !"     135

flown, because no one loved him, not even his wife ; and who
else should, if not she ? And so he was wretched, like full
many another whom I have seen as I journeyed down life's
glades. His soul was driven back upon, and forced to eat
itself, day by day, and year after year. 'And this great
wrong you will do,' said the hermit ; and 'This great wrong
I have already done,' thought the girl-wife-widow-wife
-four in one, with that strange, anomalous inconsistency,
peculiar to Dream-Life. 'I have done badly ; but this I will
do no more-not another second longer !'
"Bravely, royally thought and said ! Better, if more glo-
riously done !-and that's just the difference-saying and
doing. The first is common ; the'last is very rare. 'Better
still, if truly said, and still more nobly done !'-was whis-
pered in the woman's ear, in the same low, silvery voice, she
had heard the day before. Who was it that spoke these
melodious words ? Not the hermit in grey. Was it the in-
visible Hesperina, telegraphing Betsey's soul across the vast
expanse of the Continent of Dream ? Who shall answer me
these questions ?
"Said the silver-girdled hermit, as he smiled a smile of
more than human gladness-more than human meaning--' It
is Well.' She looked again toward the magic globe, and ho !
within a moment, its disk had changed. The first two figures
had disappeared ; the third had once more come upon the
scene-a conspicuous actor in such a terrific drama, as
neither earth nor starry eyes ever saw before, may they never
see again !

"The Gorgon, WAR, had glutted himself on Europe's
bloody fields, and had flown across the salt sea, alighting on
our shores. The demon landed with a howl, midway between
Moultrie and Sumter. He had seized the reins of govern-
ment, proclaimed himself sole Lord and King ; strangled
Reason .in his dreadful gripe, until she lay bleeding on the
gory earth, and meek-eyed Peace fled tearfully away from his
grim presence, and hid herself upon a distant mountain-top,
whence she could survey the shock of armies on the plains
beneath, and sigh, and long for Liberty and rule.
"War and Carnage, side by side, with gory banners flying,
xiarched from one end of the nation to the other, until their
footsteps rested on the graves of eight hundred thousand
men. God's precious word was disregarded, and His blessed
soil dyed red with human blood-the rich, fat blood of the
noblest race that ever trod His earth-the blood of your
brother, and of mine, 0 my countrymen !
" And now, the loud-lunged trumpets brayed their fierce
alarums, and summoned Columbia's sons to deeds at which our
grandsons shall turn pale-deeds of heroic daring such as
Greece, nor Rome, nor Carthage ever dreamed of, nor storied
page has chronicled : summoned them to Sumter's stony
ramparts, and Potomac's grassy banks-summoned them to
do, and-die. Eight hundred thousand Men ! And they
went-going as tornadoes go-to strike for a Nation's life-
to strike the foul usurper low, and fling his carcass to the
dogs. They would have struck-struck hard and home ; but
they were stayed. That was not the 'little game' of Generals

134          THE R4SICRUCIAIVI ig STORY.


136          THE R0SICRUCIAN 'S STORT.

A THRILLING SCENE.         137

and Statesmen, and of high contract-ing parties. Oh, no !
Victory would never do !  'Let us fight the foe with gloves
b on !' said the Minister. They fought. The foe wore gloves,
also ; but the -palms were brass, the fingers iron, and the
knuckles polished steel ! But the Minister had his whim, and
unborn generations will feel its consequences ! Eight hundred
thousand graves !
" And the Union legions went, from decreed Fate toward
a consummated Destiny, in spite of Ministers, their minions,
or the 'little game ;' and Tom Clark went, too.
" And loud the trumpets brayed ; and the heavy drums did
sound ; and they woke strange and fearful energies in the
slumbering Nation's heart. What a magic transmutation !
Plowmen transformed to heroes, such as shall forever put Ci-
cinnatus in the shade ; day laborers, carriers of the hod,
claiming-and rightfully, too-high places in the Pantheon
of heroic demi-gods. Look at Fredericksburg ! Forget
not the Black Brigade ! Bear in mind the deeds of a
hundred regiments on a hundred fields-fields, too, that
might, and would have finally decided the carnage and the
quarrel, but for the Minister, his gloves, his 'little game,' his
great whim-and lo ! its consequences !
" Tom Clark, quickened into life by the subtle, flame-tipped
staff in the hands of the phantom-artiste-the proprietress of
the wonderful atelier and Man-factory, now stepped forth
-through the door of the room, and forthwith the scene ex-
panded to such vast dimensions, that Betsey found it impos-

sible to realize the magic mimicry, for the whole thing was
too real, and on too grand a scale. She stood on the hill of
the world, surveying its valleys at leisure. Tom Clark,
apparently heard-deeply heard, his Country's wail of agony
-for unchecked Treason was then griping her tightly by the
throat. That cry called him to a field of glory, such as God's
green earth never before afforded, nor His sun ever saw ; nor
His moon ; nor His myriad, twinkling, starry eyes !
" Clark's soul was in arms, as his offended ears drank in
the hoarse, deep thunders of Treason's cannonry, pouring iron
hail upon a prostrate Nation's head ; and his eyes beheld the
flashing of the guns, as they vomited a hell of iron and fire
upon Sumter, upon Anderson, and the peerless EIGHTY-
THREE ! Tom Clark saw the storm, and his heart indignant
swelled, at the insult to the Star-gemmed Flag of Human
Rights and Liberty-an insult, long since wiped out in
traitor's blood, but for the Minister, and the gloves, and the
'little game,' and the whim, whose consequences are-eight
hundred thousand skeletons !
"Like a true man, Clark, inspired by a true woman-the
phantom-wife, and artiste-ran, leapt, flew to arms .and
deathless glory. Ah, God ! to arms, and fadeless glory ! He
had no time to grieve, or grumble ; or to criticise this gene-
ral or that battle. He looked over the heads of cowards and
traitors in his own camp, at the noble men in arms, and who
bravely fought, and nobly died, for the Country. He saw,
and gloriously emulated such men as Lyon, Saxton, Hunter,
Fremont-and Baker ! Baker 1-0 Oregon ! my tears fall


138         THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

with thine, for him i He was mine, yours-ours ! Ours, in
his life ; in his nobleness ; in his soul-arousing eloquence ;
in the valor, and the effulgent glory of his death-the result
of another whim, and lo ! the consequences !
" And now, see ! Behold the smoke of yonder battle !
Death rides on cannon-balls, to-day ! And, to-night, there
will be much mourning in the land ; for strong men in thou-
sands are giving up the ghost. Weep not,- 0 widow, for
God accepts such sacrifices ; mourn not, 0 orphans, He
who tempers the wind to the shorn lamb, will hold thee in
His keeping ; thy grateful country will not let thee want for
bread; and., by-and-by, it will be a proud boast of thine,
'My father died to redeem the land from treason !'
" Death rides on cannon-balls, to-day, in the fight that we
are seeing. Tom Clark is a hero. See ! he leads the van.
God spare him ! What a presence ! What blows he deals
for Liberty and the Union I Lo ! the thundering battalions
of the brave and bold, but insane, misguided, and revengeful'
foe, sweep down the embattled plain, their war-cry ringing
out above the belching roar of artillery ; and, with such
might and valor do they charge, that Freedom's cohorts reel
and stagger beneath the dreadful shock of arms. Another
such a charge, and all is lost. But, see, there comes a man
from the ranks--a common soldier--his voice rings clearly
out upon the sulphur-laden air: 'Follow me 1' The inspir-
ing words and action kindle new fire in the wavering
breasts of hundreds. They rise ; they throw themselves
upon the foe-they hush his battle-cry in' death. He is

repulsed !  'Who did that ?' demands an aide-de-camp.
'Private Thomas W.,' is the response. 'Hero ! greet him
in my name, as Color Sergeant,' says the General ; and
Tom Clark is promoted on the field.
" The first day's fight is over. It is renewed next day,
and, when the tired guns give over with the sun, a group of
soldiers are gathered round a man. 'Who is it ?' 'Who is
it ?' ' I thought you knew-why, it is the man who saved
the Tenth Brigade-and was rewarded on the spot-Captain
Thomas W. !'
" With the sunrise, came the foe ! 'Pass the word along
the line, there-Captain Clark is wanted at the tent of the
General-in-Command !' He goes.
" ' Captain Clark, do you see yonder battery of the enemy ?
It must be taken, or we are lost. If I give you command
of a regiment whose colonel was killed yesterday, can you
take it ?' 'I will try.' . . . ' General, the battery on
the left is ours,' says an aide-de-camp an hour afterwards.
'It is taken, and all its men are either dead or prisoners I'
'Indeed I So soon?   Greet the commander in my name,
and salute him as Colonel Thomas W.'
" Another day dawns on the ensanguined field-a field
where privates were heroes and generals poltroons ! Hard
fighting is before us. Up, up the soldiers spring ; and on,
on to death or victory they rush. Oh, it was a splendid
sight-those death-defying demi-gods, who, had they in pre-
vious battles had but a Man to lead them, would have taken
fifty rebel strongholds in as many hours. But such was not
the drift of the 'pretty little game.' More men must die,

COLONEL THOMAS W.            139


140         THE ROSICRU(IAN's STORY.

JE RENAIS DE MES CENDRES.        141

more ditches must be dug, and more human bones must fill
them, else how can Ministers carry out their whims ; how
else can the enemy be fought and placated at the same time ?
it isn't Constitutional I besides which it hurts the prospect
for the Presidency of the re-United States--which prospect
would be forever marred, and the 'little game' played out,
if we fought without gloves, and violated our Constitutional
obligations by kicking the wind out of the foe, who is trying
might and main to strangle the Nation. He might here-
after say: ' You, sir, fought without gloves on 1' which
wouldn't do, you know.
"' Damn that Colonel Thomas W. If the fellow keeps on
at that rate, we'll surely whip somebody--badly. Curse the
fellow, he don't believe in the glove business, or in the
" Erring Sisters' theory,"' soliloquized somebody on a cer-
tain day. 'This'll never do ! Aid, come here ; go tell Cob..
nel Clark take possession of the Valley down yonder, and
hold it at all hazards till nightfall !' 'But, General, he has
only seven hundred men-the foe is thirteen thousand
strong l' 'So much the 'worse for '- he meant Clark, but
said, 'the enemy-they will fight like tigers.' And the aid
transmitted the order-shaking hands with the Colonel as he
rode away, muttering, 'Poor fellow ! His goose is cooked
for a certainty! What a pity he stands in somebody's light-,
somebody who is jealous of even aprivate's fame. Ah me!'
and he rode back to headquarters, wondering whose turn
next it would be to face the forlorn hope-such a singular
number of which this Rebellion has developed.
" But there was no flinch in Colonel Thomas W.-no

flinch in his men. They all saw the hazard ; but they were
Men and Soldiers. They knew how to obey orders, when
their superiors did not. But then again, they had no hopes
of success in a general election ; they had no 'little game.
"'Their's not to reason why,
Their's but to do or die.'
And they done it !
" On, on, like more than Spartan heroes, on they dashed,
literally, as absolutely as anything earthly can be, 'into the
jaws of death--into the mouth of hell.' I have a minnie bul-
let on my table that plowed a furrow through a brother's
heart of mine in that same dreadful valleyI Away they
went-that gallant band, that gallant man ; and many a bul-
let went crashing through skulls and bones as they went ; and
many a soul sped its way to God ere the cohort reached the
knoll in the valley. Once there, they were no longer men-
they were as sublime exemplar gods. But a man fell-fell
before the resistless force of a hundred horses charging with
all of Treason's vehement strength, and the gallant man went
down, and the thunder of iron hoofs exploded in his ear, and
then the cloud passed on.
" And Thomas Clark went down-down, as Truth, and
Justice and I went down ; but he rose again-so ever does
Truth and Justice ; and as for me, e renais de mes cendres-
let those beware by whom I fell.... Down to the gory soil
he went ;but even while the woman sat there in the grotto,
gazing till her eyeballs fairly ached with intensity-sat gazing

,             -      t                                     "


142          THE ROSICRICIAN'S STORY.

with suppressed breath, so still was she-sat gazing, her
blood on fire, her pulse beating three hundred to the minute,
beating with a deep, fierce, tumultuous fire; sat gazing stilly,
while her heart bounded and thumped within its bony citadel
as if impatient of its duress, and longing to burst its taber-
nacle, and let the imprisoned soul go free ; sat gazing, while
her eyes, large grey eyes, all the while gleamed with a light
that proved her capable of giving birth to heroes-even
while thus she gazed on the wheeling squadrons, the charg-
ing hosts, and the great guns, as they gave forth their fiery
vomit, charged with sudden deaths-the man, Toni Clark,
sprung to his feet again, and, as he staunched his blood with
one hand, he pointed with the other at the foe. 'Follow me!'
he cried. 'See ! we are reinforced ! On to victory-on 1'
And his voice rose above the tempest, and it flew over the
spaces, and it fell upon the ears of a 'great man,' and the
'great man' wrung his hands, and he thought : 'Not dead
yet ! Damn the fellow I- He will make us win a victory-
and that'll never do ! Dear me ! that cursed fool will spoil
my little game !  Oh, for night, or a fresh division of-the
enemy I I must reinforce him, though, else it'll get into
that infernal Tribune-or into that cursed George Wilkes'
paper-and that'll spoil my little game ! Ho, there ! Aid,
go tell General Trueman to reinforce Colonel Thomas W.
My little game !' and he arranged his epaulettes and gave his
moustache an additional killing twist. In the meantime,
Tom Clark had charged the enemy with bayonets with the
remnant of his own force, followed by hundreds whom his

example had transformed into something more sublime than
fighting soldiers.
" And now occurred one of those conflicts which make or
mar the fortunes of a nation : one of those terrible multi-
personal combats which mark a century's history, and strike
the ages dumb with awe ; one of those terrific scenes in the
world's great drama, that mark historic epochs, and enshrine
men's names in fiery letters upon the scrolls of Fame.
" The charge and the action were short, sharp, swift, des-
perate ; but at its close the
"'Flag of the Planet gems,
With saphire-circled diadems,'
floated proudly over the scene of Treason's battle lost--a
Nation's battle won !
"Day closes again ; and the wounded hero in an ambu-
lance was borne fainting-almost dying, from the field.
'Colonel Clark, can I do anything for you ?' said one of the
fighting generals to the stricken man--a bullet had gone
through him. 'You are a noble fellow, and I speak for my-
self, your comrades in arms, and for our country. Can I-
can they, can we, can she-do anything for you, in this sad
hour of your destiny ? If so, I beg you to speak.'
"'Alas ! no, my friend,' replied he, reviving, only to swoon
again. A little cold water on his temples partially dissipated
the coma, but not all the fog from his perceptions ; for his
general's words, 'Can she,' considerably obfuscated his intel-
lect, and he thought : 'He means Betsey-that's the only
17*

CLARK FALLS IN BATTLE.       143


144         THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.

she I know of.' And then he strengthened up for a last dy,
ing effort ; strove to collect his thoughts, partly succeeded,
and said : 'Nothing more, dear general. Yes. No. I'm-.
dy---ing--going--home. Tell Betsey-dear Betsey-I did
not-find her out till-it was-too-late. Tell her that I
loved-her from my--soul-at last. Tell her-that'-----
" She can't stand the pressure any longer-globe, or no
globe, hermit or no hermit-not another minute. You Bet !
It's a pretty how de do, me a settin' here, and poor Tom
laying there, killed a'most to death !' shrieked the fair girl
in the grotto of the hermit of the silver girdle, waked up
beyond endurance, by the skillful magic of the weird recluse.
And repeating the Californian, 'You Bet !' with vehement
emphasis on the last word, she sprung to her feet, in spite of
the warnings of the man who dealt in magic crystal globes in
the precincts of a forest wild-upsetting table, tripod, stool
and hermit, in her eagerness to reach Tom's side and give
him wifely ministry.
"cWhat luck she might have had in bridging Phantom
River I know not, having omitted to remain long enough for
inquiry, not having had time, to thus devote ; but this I do
know, namely, that she nearly kicked the veritable Mr.
Thomas W. Clark completely out of bed-the bed at whose
foot was a window, whose upper sash was down-the identi-
cal window through which came all the 'funny things' of
this most veracious history, which, of course, is all true.
Betsey woke from excitement, Tom from being kicked, and
both had finished their double dreams.-

"' What'n thunder's up now, Bet-no, Lizzie, I mean ?'
said he, checking the less respectful utterance, and modulat-"
ing his voice to what he doubtless intended to be a 'velvet-
dulcet cadence,' but which wouldn't pass for that in Italian
opera. .'Not nothing, Tommy, dear.' 'Not nothing, Liz-
zie ?' 'Not nothing.' .'That ain't grammar, sweet.' 'I
was paragorically speaking, my turkle dove ! Only I've
been having two very funny dreams.' 'You ! Two dreams ?
That is queer !' 'You Betw' 'What about, Lizzie ?' 'Oh,
all about how we didn't love- each other -as we ought to,
husband.' 'And, dorg on my buttons, wife, if I haven't had
two just such dreams myself-all about a precipice, and a
pile-Oh, wasn't it a pile, though ?' ' You Bet !' ' And my
dreams were all about how I ought to love you, and didn't-
and then, again, I did.' 'That's a dear!'  'You Bet!'
'Let's love each other this time out, will you ?' ' I will ;
will you ?' 'You Bet!' 'Let's profit by our dreams. I
mean to ; won't you ?' 'I'll try !' 'i'll try!' 'We'll both
try!' 'You BET !' And they tried to forgive and forget.
"Will you do the same ?" asked the Rosicrucian of the
"Angular Character," who had told his own story in dis-
guise. The latter saw that his secret was out ; yet his heart
was touched, for, as a great tear-drop rolled down his cheek,
he said, with smothered breath, the holy words-" I'll try!"
" Amen !" said the Rosicrucian. " Amen !" said we all ;
and then, turning to his auditors again, the story-teller said :
" Friends, go thou and do likewise; and so long as you live,
I charge you never to forget the Rosicrucian nor his story ;

cc ILL TRY 1"          145


146         THE ROSIORUCIAN'S STORY.

nor IT, the Shadow; nor Hesperina, the Light; nor Otanethi,
the Genius of the Hour ; nor the silver-girdled Hermit, and
his Crystal Globe in a forest wild ; nor, above all, the little
window at the foot of the bed, whose upper sash was down."
A day or two afterwards we reached Panama, and after
that we saw but little of our entertainer ; but before I finally
lost sight of him he told me that he was about writing some
Rosicrucian stories, the MSS. of which he would send to me
when ready. I have received some, and they will be pub.
lished by me as soon as I can.spare time to attend to it,
which will be---
" When this cruel war is over ,,
P. B. R.
UTICA, November, 1863.

IEIVSI         DI        ID           Ki1LL1
AGE N CY.
I INVITE THE ATTENTION OF DEALERS IN
Cheap Publications, Periodicals, etc.,
To my facilities for packing and forwarding everything in
my line. Al1 goods packed with the utmost care, and for-
warded, in atl instances, by the very earliest conveyance fol-
lowing the receipt of the orders.
I am GENERAL AGENT for, and take the WHOLE EDITIONS
(except mail subscriptions), of the
New York Ledger, New York Clipper, Nick-Nax, National
Police Gazette, Scottish-American Journal, Beadle's Dime
Books, Littel's Living Age, Wilkes' Spirit of the Times,
Comic Monthly, New York Weekly, Metropolitan Re-
cord, Irish American, Phunny Fellow, Herald of
Progress, Leslie's Budget of Fun, Mr. Merry-
man's Monthly, Banner of Light, Leslie's His-
tory of the War, Madame Demorest's Mir-
ror of Fashions, New York Illustrated
News, Leslie's War Maps, etc., etc.
I also supply ALL OTHER Magazines, Newspapers, and other
Periodicals sold in the Trade, at the very LOWEST PRICES, and
forward them at the EARLIEST MOMENT after leaving the Press.
I make special efforts to forward New Books on the best
terms.
SINCLAIR .TOUSEY,
No. 121 1Nassau street, New York.

I

f


MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES..
Dealers wanting anything from New York, not in their
regular order, as Books, Stationery, Music, Penls, Envelopes,
Almanacs, Song Books, Pictures, Paper, Maps, Charts, Note
Paper, plain, Note Paper, embossed, Note Paper, colored
edges, Note Paper, with mottoes, Note Paper, with designs,
Note Paper, with States' Arms, Note Paper of all sorts,
kinds, qualities and prices.  Letter Paper of all sorts, kinds,
qualities and prices. Cap Paper of all sorts, kinds, quali-
ties and prices. Envelopes white, Envelopes bu if, all shades,
Envelopes plain, Envelopes with designs and mottoes, Enve-
lopes of all sorts, qualities and prices.
Almanacs, Toy Books, Paper Dolls, Pens, Ink, etc., etc.
Everything needed by a Newsdealer or Bookseller,'or any-
body else.
WiirAlso, Cheap Novels, Pictures, Portraits, Albums of
all kinds, Lithographs, Maps, Cartes de Visite of prominent
persons, etc., etc., etc.
EVERY NEW THING AS SOON AS READY.
Books, Papers, Magazines, etc., sent FREE OF POSTAGE, on
receipt of the advertised retail price.
I pledge myself to furnish EVERYTHING at the VERY
LOWEST PRICES, and low enough to afford the Retailer a good
profit.
PRINTED LISTS of NEWSPAPERS and MAGAZINES sent
free to all who ask them.
SINCLAIR TOUSEY,
No. 121 Nassau street, New York.
General Wholesale Agent for Newsdealers and Booksellers.

New, Original and Thrilling Works! !
BY DR. P. B. RANDOLPH,
THE DUMAS OF AMERICA.
-4*-
IT is sufficient to say of the following seven Works, that
they are from the pen of P. B. Randolph, to command such
a sale as few books enjoy in these days.
I.

TTHE WONDERFUL STORY

OF

RAVALETTE,"
A ROSICRUCIAN ROMANCE, AND THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY AND
THRILLING WORK EVER PUBLISHED IN THIS COUNTRY.
CONTENTS:-The Strange Man.-The Legend. -Preexistence.
-Double Life.-The Haunted House.-The Mysterious Guest.-
A very Strange Story.-Evlambsa.-A Son of Adam and a
Daughter of Ish.-Napoleon III. and the Rosicrucian.-An ex-
traordinary Seance in Paris.-Spectra.-Phosphorus and the
Elixir of Life.--The Magic Mirror.-Who was he ?-What was
it ?-The Secret of Perpetual Youth !-The Priest of Fire.-The
Magic Slumber.--Strange Revelations.-Confession.-The Magic
Pictures.-" And several other Worlds!"-Very curious.-AN
ASTOUNDING CHAPTER !-Singular Experiment.-" A Man goes in
a Cab in search of his own Ghost !"-A Strange Wager.-Mystery
thickens.-Deeper and Deeper.- Murder will out.-The Devil
in Paris-Diablerie extraordinary.-" The Saucer on the Floor."
What some Folks believe are Spirits!-An Astounding Dis-
closure!-The Grand Secret.-A Theory demolished.-Ravalette
explains.-The Sleep, and a Revelation of the Destiniesq;
Nations, a chapter so extraordinary that it alone is worth the
price of the whole book.
II.
TOM CLARK AND HIS WIFE ; THEIR DOUBLE DREAMS, AND
THE CURIOUS THINGS THAT BEFELL THEM THEREIN.
Being the Third Thousand of the celebrated

ROSICRUCIAN'S

In press.

2 vols. in 1, cloth, $1 25.

STORY.
Usual discount.

SINCLAIR TOUSEY, 121 Nassau St., N. Y.


T
;
,{
1-
i
f
t
ti
t'
,_

III.
PRE.ADAMITE MAN:
Demonstrating Human Existence 100,000 years ago, and
that Adam was not the First Man.
"When the gude Laird was making Adam, even then the clan
Grant was as thick and numerous as the heather on yon hills."--.
BAILEY GRANT.
Universally conceded by the Press of two countries,
to be-
"A remarkable book."  "We hail this shot from the Fort of
Truth! . . . Shows that men built cities 35,000 years ago! . . .
Extra valuable volume." " Great grasp of thought ! . . . Proves
Adam was not the first man, nor anything like it ! . . . Engrossingly
interesting.... Soul-stirring and grand beyond description!"  " The
Author exhibits a profound reverence for the truths of Scripture, but
a still profounder one for Truth herself. Dissent we may to some
things, yet on the whole, we commend the work to the favorable
attention particularly of the learned world."
3d Edition. Cloth, $1 25, 8vo., 400 pp., usual discount.
IV.
"DEALINGS WITH THE DEAD."
The Human Soul-What it is ; whence it came ; its loca-
tion in the body ; its passage through death ; whither it
goes after death ; what it does ; how it lives ! Marriage in
the Soul-world ! Offspring there ! Eating, drinking, sleeping
'after we are dead ! Do Souls occupy space ? Does a Soul
feel heat, cold, get wet in a storm ? What becomes of dead
children ?-of idiots ?-lunatics ?-premature births ?  Hea-
ven! Hell1!-their nature and location, with scores of equally
important and profound questions, are all answered in this
most extraordinary and entirely original volume.
Cloth, 75 cts. Usual discount.
SINCLAIR TOUSEY,
121 Nassau Street New York.

V.
AN INSIDE VIEW OF SPIRITUALISM.
A thorough and complete summing up of the system, show-
ing its true nature and vividly depicting its effects upon the
minds, bodies, morals and characters of all its adherents, by
one who had a thorough experience of ten. years of, and
in it.
The price of the " UNVEILING" is 25 cents.
USUAL DISCOUNT.
VI.
THE ROSICRUCIAN'S STORY.
The great Sensation Tale. Embracing the celebrated and
quite extraordinary "Miranda Theory."
BY DR. P. B. RANDOLPH.
N.B. The above two books are especially valuable by rea-
son of the flood of light thrown on the modern phenomena
usually attributed to "spirits."
Paper covers, 106 pages, 15 cents. Usual discount.
VII.
IT ISN'T ALL RIGHT ;
Being an Answer to, and refutation of, the modern doctrine
that " Whatever is is right." The book is an eloquent de-
fence of Marriage, and embraces an appeal for the poor
prostitute against the villainous wiles of those who make her
what she is. Nothing in the language speaks more forcibly
for fallen woman than this rare pamphlet.
Paper covers, 15 cents.
SINCLAIR TOUSEY,
121 Nassau Street, New York.


It is doubtful if any List of Modern Works by a single
author can surpass in variety, interest, scope or power, that
above presented. The volumes are well worth perusal. All
orders for them, or any books published by this house, or any
other, will be promptly filled, whether for single copies or
in quantities.
SINCLAIR TOUSEY.
In addition to the above, will be for sale,
THE CELEBRATED,
"RODREY" DREAM-BOOK,
RE-TRANSLATED, CONDENSED, AND ADAPTED TO MODERN USAGE.
This, the largest and most perfect book of the kind in the
world, in any language, has been enlarged till it now con-
tains the enormous number of THREE THOUSAND SOLUTIONS
OF THREE THOUSAND DREAMS I It is utterly impossible to
have any sort of Dream; the interpretation and meaning of
which is not contained in this very curious book. It also
embraces the famous Persian " Pfal," whereby these Orientals
tell their own and each others fortunes by means of the num-
bers thrown with three dice. As a source of amusement,
and instruction too, this book is unsurpassed.
Price 25 cents.
USUAL DISCOUNT TO THE TRADE.
SINCLAIR TOUSEY,
General Newspaper and Book Agent,
121 Nassau Street, New York.


 
             
         
       
   
