
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Tales of Romance .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7982
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Tales of romance 
            
               j AIA~

7

I,

*REPRODUCED FROM THE .COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LiBRARY

TALES OF ROMANCE.

A SERIES OF

ENT ER TAINING T AL ES

OF

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS, ADVENTURES,
THE MARVELLOUS, &amp;c. &amp;e.

FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTiON

PHILADELPHIA:
PUBLISHED BY JAS. B. SMITH &amp; CO.,
NO. 148 CHESTNUT STREET.
1855.

i iI~i,
It
1~
I ~i

~1

I


'4
1~~
WILDENHEIM CASTLE, AND TIlE MURDERED
NUN.
A GERMAN TALE.
I
THE Marquis d'Axala, after leaving the Universi
ty of Salamanca, set out immediately on his travels.
lie was liberally supplied with money and letters of
introduction by his father, who insisted. on his con-
cealing his rank, and travelling as a private gentle-
man. Before he entered upon his tour, the prudent
.   parent addressed his son in a long'speech upon the
principles which ought to direct his conduct, and the
reasons why he had enjoined him for a time to drop
his title; which were, that he might appreciate the
j    estimation in which he himself would be held by the
world when theirjudgment was not biased by his
rank, and that he might examine the customs and
I                                                               manners of the multitude, without derogating from
his exalted birth. The Marquis saw the propriety
I
of this advice, and quitted Spain, calling himself by
the plain title of Don Ahnagro di Cordova. Paris
was the first station he made, attended ~y a faithful
servant. Here he found the manners of the people
trifling, unstabb~, and insincere; and, dissatisfied,
bent his way towards the German Courts, intending
to make some stay at ~trasbourg. The Marquis
arrived safely at Luneville, and on stepping out of
his chaise to alight at the inn, observed a rich equ~-.
page at the door, and soon after saw an elegant fe-
male, followed by two attendants, enter the carriage,
which drove off immediately. He directly enquirer
A      -                                                     ~  Qf the host who the lady was, and learned that she
J

(


I

THE MURDERED NUN.

~iXuvELLOUS REPOSITORY.
was a German Baroness of great rank and fortune,
who had been on a visit to the DutChCSS of Belle-
cour, and was, returning to Strasbourg, to her hus-
band, previoUslY to their return home. Almagro
set off, and intended to reach 5~~~sbourgthat night.
In this~ however, he was prevented by the breaking
down of the chaise in the middle of a dark forest.'
There seemed no alternative but for Almagro to
take the servant's horse, and ride on; but the old
postillion~ after stating the intricacy of the way in
such a gloomy night, said it was only five ~iinute5
walk from the cottage of Dubois, a very honest
friend of his, and a wood cutter. The proffered
help was immediately accepted, and the shattered
vehicle was, with much labour, drawn to the cot-
t'age, through the window of which they beheld
the blaze of a comfortable fire: They soon made
the cottage awake, who apologized for not opening
the door till he had heard the voice of his friend
Jacques, as there were a sad number of rogues about.
He then introduced Almagro into another room,
where sat a female whom he supposed to be the
wife of' his host, who received hi.m with a slight re-
verence, but did not rise to assist in providing for
his accommodation till reproved by her husband and
.Jacques.A chudish gloom overspread her counte-
nance, and, though she might be called handsome,
her very look and action expressed discontent.
The woodman seemed to be about sixty years of age,
and appeared to have absorbed all the fatness and
fresh colour of his wife, who was haggered, though
not yet thirty.
The postillion would have proceeded to Stras-
hourg that night for workmen to return and mend
-the chaise, but Almagro over-ruled this, as the
night was bitterly cold, and his arrival diere at a
particUlar hour was of no conseque~1ce.~Not long
after, Dubois put his head out of the cottage door,
and said, "I wonder what detains my boys so long.
o MonsieUr, they are such fine young men, that
4

I

4'

you will say. when you see them, their equals are
not to be fdund any where."
"Such sons, indeed!" exclaimed Antoinette,"
in a growling accent. "Come, come, Antoinette,"
said the host, "cheer up a little; if your two sons
are not quite asold I hope you will yet live to see
them just such lads' as Martin and Philip. "Hea-
ven forbid !" cried Antoinette, clasping her hands
together: "I would rather see them perish first !"
She then quitted the room, and the Marquis could
not help remarking to his host how ill-fated he
was n being united to such a woman. The man~
briefly informed him, that her affection for two
sons she had by a former husband made her play
the step-mother with his two sons; but, cross as
she was, she managed his family excellently. This
discourse was interrupted by a loud halloo, fol-
lowed by a carriage, attended by several cavaliers,
who were proceeding to Strasbourg, but through
the ignorance of the drivers had lost their way.
A lady inside appeared to be princip~llv distressed,
and whom Almagro recognized to be the lady he
had seen at Luneville, the Baroness Wildenheim.
The woodman showed evident chagrin at the arri-
val of these strangers, but his countenance after-
wards cleared up, upon learning the quality of his
guest, and he soon arranged matters for the Baron
ess to have one chamber, and Almagro the other.
The servants were to be well accommodated in a
large barn, a few yards distant from the house.
This arrangement being gratefully accepted, Diibois
was just going to conduct the male domestics to
tl~eir outhouse, when Martin and Philip appeared,
who Started at coming in, but, beiiig assured by
Dubois that the good company would find a corner
for them, they staid, and were presented to the
Baioness an(l Almagro, after which the two wait-
ing women were conducted by Antoinette to their
lady's apartment.
The two young men were tall and stout, aa

/

wa


~1ARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
acknowledged .Jacques as an old acquaintance.-~-
They then drew a cutlass and a brace of pistols
from under their clothes, and ~id them on a shelf,
remarking at the same time 'Icy had just com.e
from Strasbourg, and it was necessary to be well
armed, as the forest was much infested with rob..
bers. The Baroness earnestly wished to convey
a letter to her husband, but the account of the fb~
rest rendered it too hazardous to send any servant.
When Jacques understood this, he informed her
he was under the necessity of reaching Strasbourg
that night, and would convey a letter safely, as he
was too insignificant an object to be interrupted by
banditti. The Baroness accepted his offer, and at
the same time she gave her letter, the Marquis sent
a few lines to his banker. The lady, finding her-
self much fatigued, was conducted to her chamber;
and on Antoinette's return, the Marquis, perceiv'-
ing he was in her way, said he would go to his
room till supper was ready.-Phihip. asked what
chamber it was, and Antoinette replied, the one
with the green hangings; and having put clean
sheets on the bed, if the gentleman chooses to
lounge on it, she should not make it over again.
Philip, having remarked that it was no novelty to
see his mother out of humour, opened the door,
and began to ascend the staircase. "You fool,
to go without a light !" exclaimed Antoinette, and
passed the Marquis to put the candle into Philip's
hand; in returning she met the Marquis just going
to ascend: no one was near at the moment, and she
instantly took the Marquis' hand, pressed it, and
whispered, "Look at the sheets!" Don Almagro
was startled, but Philip's voice calling him, he as.-
cended to his room, where an exc&amp;.lent fire was
lighted. No sooner was his conductor departed,
than he turned down the coverture of the bed, and
stood petrified at seeing the sheets crimsoned with
blood. The circumstances which had taken place
convinced the Marquis of the horror of his situa
6

THE MURDERED NUN.
tion, which was further cons ~med by hearing son~e
one pacing hastily backwards and forwards under
his window, whon' e discovered to be Dubois,
looking round wh anxiety as if he expected
some one. Having extinguished his candle, and
repaired to the window, he~ saw Dubois joined by
the postillion, Jacques, whom he had supposed on
his way to Strasbourg. -They entered into a deep
conversation, the result of which was, tiAt, as the
Marquis had above 2000 pistons in his cIi~aise, and
the Baroness had also a casket of je~ls of im~
mense value, Jacques should immediaterV set out
for the cavern, where some confederate banditti
would be waiting till eleven o'clock; he was then
to conduct them by twelve to the cottage of Dii-
bois, and if any resistance was made by the cava~
hers, the latter were all to be poinarded. The
feelings of the I~ta rquis at the prospect before him
may be easily imagined; unarmed as he was, cou-
rage could do but little against so many; however,
to avoid suspicion, he re..highted his candle, and,
on descending, found the table spread for six
persons. The Baroness sat opposite the Marquis,
who by a single glance informed Antoinette that
he had taken her hint. He could not escape his
confusion being seen by the young men, who en~
quired the cause, which he attributed to fatigue.
The Marquis then talked upon his visit to Germa.-
ny, and received an invitation from the Baroness
to pass some time at her castle; at which the bro.-
thers cast a malignant smile, that seemed to say they
might never reach there. During all the supper
time the Marquis talked incoherently, his atten..
tion being fixed on escaping from the cottage,
and getting to the~barn, to alarm the domestics;
but the circumspection of Philip and Martin pre-
~Tented this, and his only hope lay in Jacques not
finding the banditti, in which case the guests rnig~t
escape unhurt.
The host lamented the poorness of his fare, and
7

1!

I


I

/7

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

he insultingly remarked, that, if his guests should
be detained longer than they at present intended,
he hoped to provide them with better entertain ~
ment. Dubois, then observing, that it very rarely
happened he had such noble company, said he
would celebrate the accidents of the night, by un-
corking a bottle of most excellent wine, made by
his father, who was now in a better world! He
gave his wife the key of the closet, which she re-
ceived with a look of fear &amp;nd distress. When she
returned, the Marquis' eye caught her's, and she
looked frowningly at the wine, and then expres-
sively at him. In the mean while, the host had
drawn the cork, and filled two goblets, one of which
the lady, at the instance of Dubois, drank. The
Marquis, by its look and smell, took it for chain-
paigo, but seeing some grains of white powder float-
ing on the top, he raised it to his lips, and seemed
to have swallowed two or three mouthfuls of it,
when, suddenly starting up, and declaring that
this sort of wine always made him ill, he feigned
to spit itout, and unperceived emptied the liquor
into a ~'ace of water behind him. Martin and Du-
bois looked distrustful; and Philip, in a side whis-
per, said, he had drank sufficient. The Marquis
anxiously watched the effect of the wine upon the
Baroness, who sunk into a profound sleep, which he
did not dare to notice, but continued the conversa-
tion. The banditti now no longer seemed to pre-
serve appearances, but whispered among them-
selves, and his danger seemed proceeding fast to
extremity. In this situation, he was relieved by
Antoinette, who, placing herself behind the seats
of her step-sons, closed her eyes, and reclined her
head upon her shoulder, pointing to the Marquis.
He understood the hint, and in a few minutes seem-
ed overcome with slumber. Dubois ~0W congratu-
lated his sons, that the Spaniard was gone to sleep,
as he began to sNispect him, and asked his wife, if
she had given the sleeping draught to the female
a

THE MURDERED ~

attendants, who answered in the affirmative, when
the trampling of horses announced the arrival of
the troop, and Antoinette horrified the Marquis by
an exclamation of, "Gracious heaven, then they
must die !" " Let us in;" was vociferated outside
the cottage. "Yes, yes!" cried Dubois, joyfully;
"they are our friends; you lead them to the barn,
and do the business there~ I will manage my gen~
tieman here, and the women !" Martin would have
shot the Marquis upon the spot, but Dubois bid him
follow his brother, and assist the new comers, who
had dismounted, and were silently moving towards
the barn. Dubois then went to a small cupboard,
and unlocked it. At this momentA ntoinette whisper-
ed in the Marquis' ear, "Now!" an(l on opening
his eyes, he saw Dubois standing with his back
t.,  towards him, feeling the point of a dagger. Not
a moment was to be lost. The Marquis, unarmed,
sprang from his seat, and being possessed of a pow-
erful arm, he grasped the villain by the throat with
such violence, that he threw him on the floor breath-
less, while Antoinette, taking advantage of un-
~    his
recovered state, wrested the dagger from his hand,
and plunged it repeatedly into his heart.
"Our only safety now lies in flight !" exclaimed
Antoinette; "follow me! quick a~ lightning !" The
Marquis seized the Baroness in his arms, and has-
tened after Antoinette, who mounted one of the
banditti's horses, while the Marquis did the same
with his charge. As they galloped by the barn,
they could distinguish the shrieks of the dying, and
the Marquis, unable to relieve th~m, felt a pang too
great for utterance. Their flight was perceived by
Martin, who with a torch recognized the fugitives
in passing, and ordered a pursuit. The Marquis
and his guide were in view of the steeple of Stras-
bourg, when the banditti were found to be gaining
fast upon them. The horses were spurred to the
imost, and at the moment when Antoinette had ex-
irned, "We are lost!" a numerous band of cava-
9

/


I

/

THE MURDERED NUN.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
hers approached, of the foremost of whom sh~ most
piteously implored protection from robbers. "It is
she herself~" exclaimed a lad, jumping on the
ground; "it is my mother! Stop, my Lord, they
are safe."
Antoinette now descended, and clasped the cava-
lier in her arms. "Where is the Baroness Wilden-
heim ?" inquired another stranger, (~2ier husband)
and on beholding her in the arms of the Marquis,
he ejaculated, "God be thanked, she has escaped
uninjured !" The Marquis, having pointed out to
the company the approach of the brigands, they
hastened to meet them; but the latter, perceiving
their danger, fled towards the wood. Immediately,
upon their arrival at Strasbourg, the Baroness, on
whom the effects of the opiate had not ceased to
operate, was put to bed, and a~ physician adminis-
tered medicine to counteract its effects.
While the Marquis was relating the adventure~to
the Baron, the pursuing party returned, with the
complete subjugation of the banditti. Their first
visit was to the barn, where they found two of the
Baron's servatits alive, though much wounded; but
the Marquis' faithful servant, Lopo, had perish-
ed. The waiting women, being overlooked by the
brigands, in their hurry, were found still sleeping,
and with an infant about four years old, which prov-
ed to be the child of Antoinette, were removed to
the Marquis' residence. When the first burst of
Antoinette's maternal affection was over, the Mar-
quis ~ecpiested to know the cause of her being uni-
ted to such a man as Dubois, she blushed, and pro-
ceeded thus:
"1 was born of respectable parents in Strasbo
where my father still lives. Betrayed by a vill in,
I quitted my father's house: I dearly loved my s4du-
cer; and this baby and the youth who warned you
of your lady's danger, were the offspring of our
love. He cautiously concealed from me that he ever
imbrued his hands in innocent blood, and it was not
10

I

/

V

till after he had been killed in attacking an Englisi
traveller, that I learned this horrid feature. When
my grief had subsided, I resolved to return to Stras-
bourg, with my two Iabes, and implore my father's
forgiveness; but, think of the bitter disappointment
I felt when the banditti informed me, that they suf-
fered none of their body ever to depart, who were
acquainted with their retreat, and that I must make
choice of a husband. They decided this by lot, in
spite of my remonstrances, and I became the proper-
ty of the infamous Dubois. A robber, and one who
had been a Priest formerly, said a burlesque ceremo-
ny, and I and my children were delivered into the
custody of my new husband, who proved the reverse
of my first lover, and strove to bend my nature to an
approbation of scenes of blood and slaughter. I
should certainly have put an end to my existence,
but 1 trembled for the virtue of my children.-The
youngest was not, capable of receiving my instruc-
tions, but the eldest showed how little he was calcu-
lated for the sot~iety of villains, by his detestation of
their proceedings. This was my situation, when
the perfidy of Don Almagro's postillion conducted
him to the cottage, and I resolved to risk every thing
to save one so young and innocent. Dubois watch-
ed me so closely, that my only hope lay in procuring
succour from Strasbourg. My son, Louis, was then
ill in bed, but I seized an opportunity to steal to his
room; he directly entered into my plan, let himself
down from the window, took Jacques' horse, and
rode to Strasbourg, where he applied to a magistrate,
and the news reaching the Baron, who knew his wife
was travelling that road, they set off with an armed
party, conducted by Louis; the fortunate 'issue of
which you are all acquainted with."
On the recovery of the Baroness, Almagro was
persuaded to accompany the Baron to his castle in
Bavaria, prior to which the interests of Antoinette
were not forgotten at Strasbourg. The good old
man relieved his repentant and only daughter, after
11


jivj~

K

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

THE MURDERED NUN.

an absence of fourteen years, with open arms, and
persuaded her to remain with him; but no induce.
ment could influence Louis to leave the Marquis,
who requested to be taken into his service, arid with
all' the innocent eloquence of a youth of thirteen ~
set forth the little services he might render him.
The Marquis then dubbed him his page, and, before
leaving Strasbourg, faithfully promised to restore
him to his mother within the year.
The journey to Wildenheim Castle proved very
j)leasant, and Almagro found in the Baron an unin-
formed man, remarkably fond of hunting; and the
Marquis being a tolerable good sportsman, his dex-
terity soon fixed him in the Baron's friendship. At
the castle of Wildenheim it was, that Almagro first
saw'the lovely Claude, then scarcely sixteen, and
blooming in every beauty and accomplishment.
From the Baroness, Almagro learned that Claude
was her niece, and sister of his friend Olphos; that
'she herself was his country-woman, and sister to the
Duke of Calvados; that Claude was the daughter of
Don Farojez, her second brother, and that she had
beeii devoted to the convent from her cradle, and
would soon make her profession at Madrid, in con-
sequence of a vow made by her mother in child-.
birth. Her brother Olphos was never made ac-
quainted with his mother's fatal vow, and all his let-
ters to Claude ~were always opened and inspected,
which was the case with her answers.
Almagro, master of these cruel particulars, deter-
mined to attempt the rescue of this lovely girl from
such a fate. He spoke to her of his friendship with
her brother, of his willingness to serve her, and soon
received' a confession of esteem and love. The
Marquis proposed her quitting the castle of Wilden-
heim, but this she indignantly rejected, and advised
in its place, that Almagro should endeavour to gain
the consent of her austere aunt to the union; and
next, that of the Baron; and then her hand should
be his.-The Marquis set about this 4dan directly,
12

/

~nd applied the chief battery of his attentions to the
Baroness, who was now about forty years of age,
and yet retained several traits of former beauty.
Her passions were amo ~ous and violent, and her
hatred was as inveterate. Don Almagro labored
incessantly to please her, and succeeded but too
ivell After reading to her one evening an affect-
ing Spanish romance, "Do you think it possible,"
said the Baroness, "for any man to feel a lOVe SO
sincere as the hero of this tale?"-Almagro replied
that his bosom could answer in the affirmative,
were he permitted to name the object of his affec-
tion.-" She has long been known to me," said Don-
na Lemnosa, "and laments most sincerely the cruel
bonds which separate her from you." "Then you
have discovered my secret," exclaimed Almagro,
taking her hand; "and now what may I hope?"-
"For my consent!" replied the Baroness~-" Ab!
Don Alrnagro, I no longer can stifle the violence of
my passion; I own I adore you! Respect for myself,
and regard for the Baron's honour, are all vanquish..
ed; they all bend to my love for you!" Almagro
was silent-he stood astonished, contemplating the
dreadful mistake to which his assiduities had led~.
Notwithstanding the knowledge of her revengeful
disposition, he resolved to clear up the mistake at
the moment, concealing only the name of his mis~
tress. This he did in the handsomest terms his
eloquence could supply; but it abated nothing of the
exclamatory fury which followed. She demanded
who the happy rival was. "Let me," exclaimed
she, "but find her who dares to rob me of your
heart, and I will inflict upon her all the tortures of
jealousy and disappointment.-Spies shall watch
your steps and your~eyes, till she is discovered, and
then tremble, Almagro, for her and your own
Her rage here ending in a fainting fit, Almagro
called her attendants to assist, and took the oppo1~-
tunity to escape. Not knowing where he strayed
B


~,

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY

THE MURDERED NUN.

K

to, he entered the garden, and saw Claude sitting
at the window of a room that looked into it; some
drawing instruments, and several large sketches
lay before her. He entered the room, and be-
fore be had determined whether she dare be trusted
with her a~nt's vengeful determination, he was
struck with the subject of one of the pictures. It
represented the great hall of the Castle. In the
front were several characters in caricature posi..
tions, arising from terror at seeing a gigantic female
figure, clothed in the habit of some religious order.
Her face was veiled, and her dress was in several
places stained with blood, which trickled from a
gash in her neck. Onehand held a lamp, and the
other a large dagger. Almagro asked Claude, if
the picture was an invention of her own; but she
replied, by asking him if he had lived three months
in the castle of Wildenheim without having.heard
of the bleeding Nun?-.Almagro rejoined, that he
had never heard about the lady, and asked who she
was. Claude replied, that she had been handed
down in a traditional story from father to son; and
that her aunt, as well as the Baron, firmly believed
she haunted the castle. " But~ sit down," said
Claude, "and I will tell you the whole of this alarm~
ing story.
"The Nun did not begin to be known. till after
she was dead; but not choosing to remain for ever
quiet, she fixed on this castle for her theatre of ac-
tion, and being a person of taste, took the best
room to, perform her ghostly pranks in. Sometimes
she visited the other chambers and galleries, to the
universal terror of the inhabitants, who described
her as here traced on the paper. She soon made
the castle scarcely habitable, and its lord was so
frightened by these midnight revels, that one morn-
ing he was found dead in his bed.
"The next lord being a pious exemplary man, liv-
ed in the castle~ and or some time after, no news
was heard of her; but this lord died in five year~
14

and then she appeared again, somewhat more tracta-
ble than before. She then walked about in silence,
and never made her appearance but once in five
years-a custom which the Baron firmly believes is
continued. He is fully persuaded, that on the
fourteenth of February of every fifth year, at mid-
night, the door of the haunted chamber QpenS,
which has been continued for a century. On this
night she marches with a lamp and dagger, as in
the picture, when the porter out of respect leaves
the castle gate open for her ghostship, who, after
an hour's absence, retires ~to her chamber, and is
quiet for another five years. The sketch I have
here taken is from the description of Dame Bar-
jona, my governess, who tells that fifteen years
ago she saw the spectre with her own eyes."-The
caricature which the playful imagination of Claude
had drawn from the Dame Barjona was so correct,
that it excited both the laughter and admiration of
the Marquis.,~ "If that please," said Claude, "I
will present you with a likeness much more ridi-
culous than Dame Barjon~i. Do with it as you
think proper." She then unlocked a small cabi-
net, and drew forth a miniature portrait of her-
s~lf. Transported with gratitude, the Marquis
threw himself at her feet, and was declaring to her
well-pleased ears the ardour of his passion, when
she suddenly uttered a loud shriek, disengaged her
hand, and escaped from the room by a door that
opened into the garden. On turning round, the
Marquis beheld the Baroness standing near him,
choking with rage. She had seen the portrait
given, and h~ard their mutual declarations of
everlasting attachment; the embarrassment of the
Marquis and Donna Lemnosa was equal; but the
lady first recovered the use of speech, and told
him he should know what it was to love without
hope, since Claude should be sent to Spain on the
arrival of an .order from her parents, and there
t~ke the veil. She then added that her niece
15

/

i
i
1


I

7

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

should be confined till he took his departure,
which she expected would he early as possible.
The Baroness then darted from the room with
,a look of contempt on the Marquis, who, after
seeking the timid Baron, and vainly endeavouring
to interest him in his cause, quitted the castle
without a sight of Claude.' The Marquis was at-
tended only by a French servant, and Louis,
whose ability and disposition had endeared him to
his master. "Courage, Signor,"~ said he, "I have
watched the moment when Dame Barjona was ab-
sent, to mount to the chamber over that of Donna
Claude, and sung so loud that she heard me, and
opened her window. I then let down a string,
and drew it up in a few minutes, with this scrap
of paper 'fastened to it." "When my aunt believes
y&amp;u have quitted Wildenheim, I shall be restored
to liberty. Conceal yourself in some neighbour-
ing village, till the night of the tl4rtieth, when I
will be in the West Pavilion at twelve, and we
will concert our future plans. Adieu. Claude."
The Marquis obeyed the instructions of' Claude,
and proceeded to Munich, leaving the care of the
chaise to Fouet, his French servant; who was' or-
dered to remain there till his master and Louis
returned.-The latter, having disguised themselves,
repaired to an inn at a village about four miles
from Wildenheim, where a fortnight passed away,
and Almagro had the pleasure of seeing Claude
with her Duenna' pass through the village in
good health and spirits, whither she came every
Friday, to the convent there. Almagro attended
the following Friday, and had the pleasure to see
himself recogniZe(l by Claude in his disguise. At
length the lon~-expected thirtieth night arrived,
and the Marquis, with Louis, who had provided a
ladder of ropes, scaled the garden wall, and posted
themselves in the west pavilion. As the castle bell
tolled twelve, the light footstep of Claude announc-
ed her approach. The Marquis flew to receive
16

THE MURDERED NUN.

her, and conducted her to a seat. "We have no
time to lose," said Claude impatiently, "for Dame
Barjona watches me every moment. In a week I
am to depart for Madrid, to be sacrificed. I have
no hope left but in your honour, and this is the plan
of escape I have formed. On the fifth day from
this time, the visionary nun is expected to appear,
and by means of a friend I have provided a dress
proper for the character. You must be ready with
a carriage, at a little distance from the great gates
of the castle; then, as soon as the clock strikes one,
I shall quit my chamber habited as the ghost, and
easily reach the. door; thus far success is certain
but, if you reward my confidence with perfidy, th~
world will not hold a more wretched being than
your Claude." The plan was acceded to, and the
lovers sat making mutual vows of love and honour.
Suddenly the door of the pavilion was opened, and
Barjona entered; she had watched her mistress out,
and overheard the whole conversation.-" But 1
shall mar all your projects," said the Duenna; "and
as for you, Don Almagro, you ought to be ashamed
of yourself, to seduce an innocent young creature
away from her family.-Come, Claude, your ghost-
ship will please to return with me." The Marquis
interceded with the cruel Barjona; but, finding all
remonstrance vain, after having premised her obsti-
nacy would be her punishment, he took the veil of
Claude, and enveloped Barjona's head in it, threat-
ening her with instant death upon making the least
noise; he then bound her hand and foot with hand-
kerchiefs, and bid. Clmde regain her apartment, and
carry her plan into effect on the day appointed.
Claude then departed, and the antiquated intruder
Was hoisted over the wall, and carried to the inn at
the village, 'where Louis managed, by putting out
the light, to get her conveyed by Almagro, without
being perceived, into his room. The Marquis, when
all the bustle was over, strove to reconcile Barjona
to her temporary confinement, but such was the
17

:1

V

~j1


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY..                             THE MURDERED NUN.

fury of the virago, that he was compelled to gag and
lock her up, except at meal time, when he stood
over her with a drawn sword. The greatest alarm
was excited at the castle on account of the lost Du-
enna; thus in various conjectures the five days pass~
ed away, and in making preparations on the part 0!
the Marquis, who had written to Fouet to be ready
with a coach and four, on the 14th of February, at
the village of Hauser. He was punctual. The
Marquis and Louis repaired to the important scene
of action. The coach was hidden in a large cavern,
called W"ildenheim vault, close to the castle.-The
night was still; the moon faintly shone, and the
castle clock struck twelve, the usual signal for the
family to retire to bed. Not long after, the porter
opened wide the portal gates, the lights disappeared,
and the whole fabric was eclipsed in darkness. The
Marquis then ventured to draw near to the castle,
and observed a few rays of light glimniering in the
chamber of Claude. While he was going, a figure
drew near the window and the curtain was care-
fully closed to conceal the iamp burning there. At
length, the solemn hour of one tolled, and in five
minutes after, a light again appeared. The light
soon faded away, and all was dark and gloomy.
Not many minutes however, elapsed, when he saw
Claude pass through the folding gates, habited ex~
actly. like the spectre, with a lamp and dagger.
She advanced to where Almagro stood; he flew to
meet her, and clasped her in his arms. The terri-
fied maid, overcome by joy, sunk upon his bosom,
and in this state he conveyed her to the carriage.
Louis remained behind to release Ba~rjona, and take
a letter to the Baroness, explaining Almagro's rank
and intentions to her niece.
Being seated in the carriage, the p ostillions drove
away with great fury; the horses became restive,
and a dreadful storm of thunder and lightning corn.
ing on, they were no longer manageable, but drag.
ged the carriage at their pleasure till all farther pro.
18

gress was stopped, by its striking against a tree~
and being shattered to pieces. The shock threw the
Marquis out, and wounded him so desperately on the
temple ,that his senses forsook him, and he lay without
animation till broad daylight, when he saw himself
surrounded by several peasants, of whom he imme-
diately demanded if they had seen Claude. They re.
plied no person answering her description ha~d been
seen by them, and they had been attracted to the spot
by hearing the groans of the only surviving horse.
Almagro immediately dispatched some of the pea-
.  sants in search of Claude, while four that remained,
made a litter of boughs, and conveyed him on it to
Ratisbon; a surgeon being sent for, it was found
that Almagro had dislocated his arm; broken a rib,
and his left leg was dreadfully bruised. The arm
however was set with success, and the surgeon an-
nounced no other consequence from his hurts than
a tedious and painful cure. It was conceived, both
by the surgeon, the hostess, and the peasants, that he
was delirious, when he talked about the lady he
had brought with him since one o'clock that morn-
ing from the village of Hansen, which lay at a dis-
tance of many leagues from Ratisbon. All efforts
to trace the lost Claude proved fruitless, and the
furious agitation the Marquis had at first displayed,
sunk into a milddespondency.-On the third night,
as he lay tossing from side to side, and vainly en-
dea~rouring to invite sleep, he heard slow and heavy
steps ascending the staircase. A rushlight glimmer-
ed on the hearth, and by an involuntary sensation,
the Marquis raised himself up in his bed, and drew
back the curtain. At that moment the clock of a
neighboring church tolled one, the door was
thrown open with violence, and the figure of the
bleeding Nun entered, but without the lamp and dag-
ger. His astonishment was changed into horror,
when she lifted up her veil in a solemn manner, and
instead of presenting the face of the beautiful Claude
he saw before hun nothing but an animated corpse.
19

F

r


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
The glaring eyeballs of the visionary female now
fixed upon the Marquis, and in a sepulchral voice
she repeated the first effusions of affection which he
had uttered on her' escape from the castle. The ap-
p arition then seated herself opposite to him, with
her eyes fixed on his, till the clock struck two, when
she arQse and approached the bed: then taking hold
of his hand with her bony fingers, and pressing her
icy lips to his, she repeated her former words, and
quitted the chamber. The Marquis with a loud
groan fainted: the sound was heard by the host and
his wife, who entered his chamber~, and found some
difficulty in restoring him to his senses. The fob
lowing night the Marquis had a servanji' to sit up
with him, and by the assistance of opiates had slept
several hours till the neighboring clock struck one,
when he awoke, and felt the terror of the preceding
night renewed. His servant was fast asleep, beyond
his strength to wake him, and the bleeding Nun en-
tered the 'room with the same appearance as the
preceding evening, saying, "Signor, Signor, thou'
art mine! Signor, Signor, I am thine !" in a hollow
voice, and after again pressing his lips, and staying
till the clock struck two, disappeared.-This was
repeated every night, and so little did his terror
abate by familiarity to his nocturnal visitor, tha~t se-
veral months elapsed before he was able to cross the
room without assistance. The ghost was invisible
to every eye but his, and whenever any attendants
sat up with him, they were seized with an irresist-
able slumber from the entrance of the spectre till
its departure.
Louis, who had, during this interval, been con~
fined at Wildenheim, had some difficulty to find his
master at Ratisbon, and from him and the subse-
quent relation of Claude, he learned the following
particulars. On the fatal night when her elope-
ment was to havc taken place, accident had prevent-
ed her from quitting her chamber at the exact time;
nevertheless, she found no obstruction in getting
20

THE MURDERED NUN.
through the castle gate, in her ghostly attire. Find-
ing that Almagro was not there, she staid till past
two o'clock, in traversing the avenues of the castle.
When she returned, the door was shut~ but on
knocking, the porter admitted the supposed spirit,
and Claude passed quietly to her chamber. In the
mean time, Louis, seeing the carriage drive off with
the false Claude, returned to the village, released
Barjona, and accompanied her to the castle. He
found the Baron and Baroness disputing upon the
porter's relation; but the mystery was soon deVelop-
ed, on his being interrogated, and the ghost that
appeared at past two o'clock was resolved into the
person of Claude. The Baroness now artfully sup-
pi'esse(l the letter, and the real rank of the Marquis,
who, from a vanity of'being beloved only for his own
sake, had not even revealed to his mistress that he
was any other than plain Don Almagro di Cordova.
This artful lady instructed Barjona to tell Claude,
that the scheme had failed entirely through the per-
fidy of her fortune-hunting lover; and Louis, lest
he should contradict it, was kept confined in the cas-
tle. Incensed at Almagro's perfidy, Claude passed
another month before she consented to receive the
"eil, and then set off for Spain with Don Faroj ez.
Louis was set at liberty, and, after finding his mas-
ter had not been at Munich, succeeded in joining
him at Ratisbon. One day, while Louis was looking
through the window, and Almagro was lying on the
sofa, he exclaimed        goes the great Magi-
c1a~n, who is the most singular man in the world!
Some suppose him an astrologer, from Arabia,
others, Doctor Faustus, and others, the devil. lie
told me, when I was seeking you out, that he had a
message for you, Signor, and that he alone could dis.~
Spate the bloody phantom !" Ahn~~gro bid him fly
att~r the magician, and request his attendance. In
a few minutes he returne(l with the stranger, who
was tall and majestic in his appearance. A band of
black velvet encircled his forehead, an(l his wild

U

4

I

Ii


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
black locks gave force to the secret awe his county~
nan~e inspired. Having motioned to Louis to re*
tire, he said, "Marquis, I have the power to release
you from the nocturnal visitor. After Saturday,
you shall see her no more! She is perpetually by
your side, though visible to you only one hour in ~he
day, nor will she ever leave you till her request is
granted, which she will explain on Saturday night
next !-Ask no more till then !"
The Marquis then entered into conversation with
him and found he had visited all countries. True
to his appointed time, he entered the Marquis' room
at midnight, with a small chest in his hand. After
saluting him, he opened the chest, and took out a
wooden crucifix, which he kneeled to, and kissed
three times. He then produced a goblet, and
sprinkled the floor with a liquid which appeared to
be blood. The end of the crucifix was then dipped
in the fluid, and he described a circle in the middle
of the floor,, round about which were laid relicS,
sculls, and other hiiman bones, in the form of cross~
es. Having taken out a large book, he beckoned the
Marquis to move into the circle, and be silent. He
had scarcely commenced reading, when the spectre
entered at the hour of one, and advanced to the cir~
cle. After some unintelligible words on his part,
he extended the crucifix towards the ghost, and in a
solemn voice pronounced thrice the name "Malvo-
glia!"----" Speak !" faltered out the spectre. "Say
why," rejoined the sorcerer, "you haunt this
youth? How can thy spirit be laid at rest?"~-" It
is forbidden me to tell," replied the Nun; "fain
would 1 repose in the grave, but my punishment is
prolonged." " Look at this blood," rejoined the
stranger, "knowest thou not in whose veins it flow~-
ed! By his mates I charge thee to answer me
The spectre shook her head in dissent.-" Now
shalt thou obej me!" exclaimed the Magician, and
he drew from his forehead the velvet band, and a
burning cross was~?lsible on his brow. rrhe hor-

THE MURDERED NUN.
ror the Marquis felt was equally imparted to the
spectre, whose limbs trembled, while her quiver~
ing lips spok~ thus. "At that mark I obey:
learn then, that in Wildenheim vault, my bones rot
in obscurity, and this youth only can consign them
to the grave; his own lips have made over Ii is soul
and body to me, and never shall he rest till my
mouldering remains are at rest in his Andalusian
castle. There let thirty masses be said for my repose,
and then I disquiet the earth no more. Oh! that
burning crucifix scorches me !"-The Sorcerer now
let drop the crucifix, which till that moment he had
pointed towards her, and the apparition bowed her
head as she vanished into air.
The exerciser then led Almagro from the circle,
replaced his book, &amp;c. in the chest, and addressed
him thus: "Don Aim agro, fail not to fulfil those
conditions punctually. Malvoglia is your relation,
and, when living, bore the name of D'Axala. She
was great aunt to your grandfather: She took the
veil at an early age, but when her ungovernable
passions began to expand, she contrived to elope
from the convent, and fled to Germany with the
Baron Wildenheim. Here she lived several months
as his avowed concubine, professed herself an
atheist, and disgusted the whole country by her
grossness. Soon after her arrival, the Baron's
youngest brother attracted her affection, and she~
~bund in him her equal in turpitude. He made the
return of his love the price of his brother's murder,
and the night was fixed on for the deed. Rolan said
that he would wait for her in Wildenheim vault, on
the night of the murder, then with some friends pr&amp;-
ceed to make himself master of the castle, and con~
elude by marrying her, which the Baron had ever.
refused to do.
On the fatal night, Malvoglia plunged her dag..
ger into the heart of her lord, as the castle clock
tolled one, and then quittino her bed hastily, took.
the lamp in one hand, with t~ie bloody dagger in the
23

(


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
other, and repaired towards the cavern. She reach-.
ed Wildenheim vault unopposed, where she saw
Rolan waiting for her. He listened to the narra-
tive of the atrocious deed with transport, and before
she could half enquirer why he* had brought no at-
tend ants with him, or defend herself, he wrested the
dagger from her, and plunged it, still reeking with
his brother's blood, into her bosom, and terminated
her life by repeated blows. Rolan now succeeded to
the barony, and the murder was solely attributed to
the fugitive nun. But his crime did not remain un-
punished; her bones lying still unburied in the
cave, the spirit of Malvoglia continued to inhabit the
castle, dressed in her nun's habit, and holding the
lamp and dagger. Every night she stood thus be-
fore the bed of Rolan, utteriDg alternate prayers
and blasphemies. At length Rolan's life became
insupportable, and he was one morning found dead
in his bed.
"The castle next fell to a distant relation, who,
terrified by the accounts of the bleeding nun, called
in a holy man, who forced the spectre to silence dur-
ing his life-time.---At his death, ~which happened
five years after, she again appeared, but only once
within every fifth year, at the same hour she mur-
dered her sleeping lover; she then visited the cavern
holding her mouldering skeleton, and returned at
two o'clock, when she disappeared for five years.-
She was doomed to suffer during the space of a
century, which being past, nothing now remains
kut to obey the injunctions of the spectre.-I now
feel some consolation in having released you from
her visits, and bid you farewell." The Marquis en-
treateM the Magician to stay, and reveal some of the
mystery attending himself, which the latter pro-
mised to (10, if he would let him defer his. explana-
tion to the next day, but on the following morning
the Marquis learned that he had, quitted Ratisbon,
and who ibis singular person was, unless he were
the celch!aIed character known by the name of the
'24

TIlE NIURDERED KUN.
Wandering' .Jew, he was never able to discover.
Relieved of his terrors Almagro rapidly grew well,
and soon set out for Wildenheim, where he was
welcomed by the Baron and his lady, whose passion,
the Marquis was sorry Ao see, was not diminished
by his absence. Wishing to avoid the latter's re-
venge, and l)erform the obsequies of the murdered
nun, he collected her remains, and bent his course,
with Fouet and Louis towards Spain.
1-lie arrived at his father's castle in Andalusia,
without any accident, deposited the bones of Mal-.
i ogha in the family vault, and performed the masses.
He now set about tracing Claude, but found that
her mother was dead, that her brother Olphos was
from home, and her father on a visit to the Duke of
Calvados. Neither the ingenuity of himself', nor
Louis, could develop the mystery, till the follow-
mo- ad venture effected it. Returning home one
ni~ht from the play house, he was attacked by three
men in an unfrequented street. One he laid at his
feet, but he would vainly have opposed the others,
had not a cavalier with his servants heard the clash-
ing of swords, and rushed to his assistance. The
braioes then fled, and the Marquis, finding be was
severely wounded, requested to be carrie dto the
Hotel D'Axala.
On mentioning the name, the Cavalier said he
knew the father of the Marquis very well, and in-.
sisted on his being taken to his brother's (the Duke
of Calvados,) hard by.-When they had entered,
the family Surgeon was sent for, and declared that
the wounds were of no consequence, and only re-
rest. "I esteem myself happy," said Don
iFarojez di Calvados, "to render you any service, and
am infinitely obliged to my daughter for detaining
me so late at the convent of St. Clair. I am cer-
tain my brother will lament his absence, but in the
mean time every thing in the Hotel di Calvados is
c~t your disposal." This was a double discovery
for the Marquis, nor did he feel uneasy when he a1.
C                   25

.11
I,
i
'j4~

~ 4


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

/

THE MURDERED NUN.

terwards learned that Claude had taken the vows in
St. Clair, as he flattered himself that his uncle's
credit at the court of Rome could easily procure a
bull to remove that obstacle. There was little
doubt that the Marquis' intended assassination had
been attempted by the means of Donna Lemnosa,
yet he carefullyy guarded this knowledge from her
brother Don Farojez, who had no suspicion that the
Marquis was the person who had been attached to
his daughter, under the name 'of Don Alrnagro di
Cordova, at Wildenheim.-The Marquis now
closely attacked the gardener of St. Clair with
bribes and promises, and succeeded in persuading
the old man to introduce him as his assistant. The
Prioress suspected no deception, and for three days
he worked in the garden, without meeting with the
object of his disguise. On the fourth morning the
Prioress and Claude advanced and seated them-
selves on a bench; she was lecturing the fair re-
cluse on her obstinacy in giving way to an ill requit-
ed love,, when a young pensioner came, and called
the old lady out. Claude then showed the charming
girl several letters, which the latter read with plea-
sure, and begging leave to copy them, retired to her
cell.-The Marquis, now came forward, and Clau&amp;e
recognized him in his disguise. She accused him
of falsehood, and would have retired; but he detain-
ed her with an assurance that she had been deceived
by the artifices of her relations. She listened, and
the' next night at eleven o'clock, they agreed to
meet again on the spot.-The weather was cold,
but it secured them from ~n interruption, and the
Marquis had a full opportunity of declaring the
cause of his absence, on the fatal night of the spec-
tre's deceiving him, and assured her, that even the
dreadful barrier to their happiness of her having
taken the veil, might be overcome, by the Cardinal
Duke of Parma's influence at Rome. Claude list-
ened, but combatted his arguments, stating her fa-
ther's superstition would never pardon her leaving
26

the convent in any manner, and she concluded with
saying, that she felt her voluntary vows to heaven
were binding, and that her father's curse would fol-
low her if she broke them.' The Marquis continu-
ed to refute her scruples, till the convent bell rang,
when he persuaded her to meet him at the same
hour next evening.
These meetings continued for several weeks un-
interrupted, and in one unguarded moment the hon'-
our of Claude was sacrificed to their mutual pas-
sions.-When the bursts of dilirium was over,
Claude started from the bank on which she was
seated, and after venting the reproaches of con-
science on the Marquis, she hurried to the convent
in spite of his efforts to detain her. The next
morning and night the Marquis attended at the gar-
den, but Claude came not. Several nights passed
away without seeing her, and at length the old gar-
denet informed him, that the lady whom he used to
the convent, to unfold the whole business to the
meet had threatened, if 'he continued any longer in
lady prioress, and that regard for his own safety, re-
quired he should withdraw himself. Finding all
efforts to see Claude were ineffectual, he submitted
not to visit the Convent. In a fortnight after, he
was summoned to attend his father, who was taken
dangerously ill. He lay several months before he
died, and a week more passed after his de~eease, be-
fore the Marquis could arrange his affairs so as to
return to Madrid. On his arrival, he found a letter
from Claude, announcing that she was with child,
and both the ini~ocent babe and herself would he
lost if he could not extricate her from the tyranny of
the vengeful prioress; that the gardener having~ been
dismissed, and one of inflexible integrity in his~jdace,
the only chance of her receiving an answer from
him was by concealing it under the statue of St.
Francis, in the Capuchin cathedral, whither she
~vent to confess every Thursday morning. Her fa~
their's death, she added, had removed one obstacle
27


1 '44
4-

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

to their union, and she now entreated him to pro-
cure with all speed the dispensation from her vows,
as the only means of saving her life !-The Marquis
felt pleasure at this epistle. because he thought he
had the power to execute the prayer of it. From
the first he had interested the ~Cardinal Duke of
Parma, to procure the necessary bull, which he had
just received a letter from him, he expected to ar-
rive in a few days; but he also said it was necessary
to get Claude out of the convent privately, lest the
fury of the prioress should counteract his Holiness'
mandate.
The Marquis saw the necessity of This, and im-
mediately had the new gardener seized, and convey-
ed to his hoteL-Master of the key he entered, and
depositedd at the shrine of St. Francis a letter for
Claude to prepare for her elopement at twelve the
next night. The Marquis in doing this became ac
cidently known to the vigilant Olphos, his friend, the
brother of Claude, who promised to assist, and in-
formed him that he had r&amp;jw nothing to fear from
Donna Lemnosa, who in a fit of passion, had died by
bursting a blood vessel. At twelve the following
i~ight, the friends attended at the garden wall of the
convent, with a coach and four. Don Almagro
drew out his key, and they entered the garden, where
they waited a long time, but Claude came not. The
fact was, the prioress had learned the situation of
Glaude, and the plan; she knew that to arrest the lov-
er would only have provoked inquiry about the gov-
ernment of her convent, and therefore she left them
to wait as long as they thought proper, and then re-
tire unmolested. The next morning Olphos repair'.
ed to the convent, and requested to see his sister.
He was informed by the Prioress that she had been
taken ill, and confined to her bed the last three days,
owing to something which secretly preyed on her mind3
and which she would not reveal.
Olphos requested to be admitted to her cell, but
the prioress was shocked at such a horrid proposi-

THF~ MURDF~RED NUN.
tion, as admittinga man into the convent. Finding
his sister was not to be Seen that day, hr. repaired
early the next morning to the con vent and received
an account that the Physician had ordered no one to
see her. Regularly did he attend the convent every
day, an(l received always a more unfavorable ac-
count. Convinced that her indisposition was feign-
ed, these accounts did not alarm him; but how to ex-
tricafe her from the fangs of the Prioress was a very
serious consideration, as she was cruel, superstitious,
and never suffered a nun of rank to depart.
F fortunately at this time arrived the pope's expect-
ed bull for the release of Claude. The essential pa-
per decided at once the proceedings of the Marquis
and his friends. On the following day, Olphos was
commissioned to present the instrument, and repaired
to the convent early in the morning. When the
maim service was over, he demanded to see the prior-
e~s, who replied as usual, that the only chance of
her dear child's recovery, was in keeping her from
being agitated. To end tbe business, Giphos placed
the Pope's bull in her hand she received it with hum-
mility, but on perusing the contents, her hypocrisy
forsook her, and in a rage she exclaimed,~."Th~
Pope's mandate cannot be obeyed; it has arrived too
late! I cannot deliver up Claude either with or with-
out (IC lay, for she expired on Friday last !"- 01-
phos started with horror, but recolleetin gthat the pri..
oress had said the moment before that she was alive,
he taxed her with falsehood, and insisted on her being
Pi'oduced.-.~.."lf I concealed her death,'~ replied the
Prioress, "it was only to soften the sad event to you.
---AVhat interest have I in detaining one who has
so long wished to quit our holy society? But her
crimes are great, and it is not to be regretted such
a wretch no longer exists. On Thursday last, in re-
turning from the Capuchin chapel, she was taken ill,
md thanks to the Viigin, we were too igu~rant to
suspect hei malady. Judge tbenbf our horror, when
~he was delivered the next day of a dead child, and
C2                  1)0

1 K1
I

-4

/


II.

/
MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

U

THE MURDERED NUN.

* followed it herself immediately! Claude is the'~e-
fore no more. and if you have any doubt, I swear
by this crucifix she has been buried three days!"
* -She then, with a scornful smile left the room, first
observing, that he might now obtain a second bull
from the Pope for her resurrection. Olphos also re-
tired, and communicated the result to the Marquis,
who was firmly convinced that the walls of St. Clair
still ~~onfined her, and tried every means without
success to procure intelligence of her. Olphos
thought she was taken off by unfair means, arid two
months elapsed without any thing arising to create
a contrary supposition. All the researches of the
Marquis d'Axala proved in vain, and the despair
he felt brought on a long and severe illness. Olphos
attended him constantly with the most fraternal af-
fection; but no one was more sensibly afflicted than
the amiable lad Louis, who left no means unemploy-
ed to gain an entrance into the convent.
Among other schemes he one day took it in his
head to disguise himself as a beggar; he put a patch
over his left eye, took his guitar in his hand, and
posted himself at the gate of the convent, imagining
that if Claude were at liberty, and heard his voice,
she would recollect him, and find means to let him
know it. His sweet songs soon attracted the notice
of the nuns, and when the rest of the beggars were
dispersed from the gate, he was desired to come in,
and partake of their' charitable donation of soup
The nuns all admired his youth and beauty, and
agreed that he would be a worthy pillar of the Cath~
olic church. rrhis was represented by the fortress
to the Domina, who ordered him to be introduced.
After havin~ asked him several questions, to which
he replied a~'tlessly, the Prioress waS so please(l with
him, that she ordered him to attend the next day, to
~p eak further upon his entrance into the church.~-
The Domina then retired, an&amp;the nuns crowded
round him, to whom he related his strange adven-
tures, and amused them so highly, that each of them
80

gave him some little relic, waxen image, or conse,~.
crated cross. H~ bad just remarked, that he should
want a basket to put his presents into, when the
mother St. Urbana presented him with one,4lined
with satin, saying, significantly, that, thou gb it
seemed of little value, it had many hidden virtues.
Louis, in receiving the present, came as close to th ~
grate as l)ossible, and she whispered in a low voice
"Claude!"
He immediately after withdrew, and hastened to
the. Marquis, who started from his pitlow on hear
ing what Louis had to say. With eager haste he
ripped up the satin lining, and found the following
note on a scrap of paper:-" I have recognized your
page, and venture to send these few lines. Procure
an order from the Cardinal Duke to seize my per-
son an(l the Domina, and let it be executed at mid-
night on Friday, during the festival of St. Clair.
13e secret or I may perish before I can unfold the
dreadful tale. St. Urbana."
This note instead of giving comfort to the Mar-.
quis deprived him of sense and motion. From the
tenor of these lines he was convinced that Claude
was no more; but when he recovered, both he and
Olphos broke out into execrations against the assas-
~in of Claude, and vowed to take a signal vengeance.
~ A~i ii~ed till he relapsed into insensibi-
flew to the p~ce of the Cardi-
nal Duke who was out of town. Olphos set off im-
mediately, as it wanted five days to the festival of St.
Clair, and succeeded in obtaining the order for
arrest, with which he arrived on the evening of the
festival. Having shewn it to the Marquis, who re-
rnaine(i very ill, he took it to Dow Gomez, an uncle
of Claude's, and an officer of the inquisition, who
Was l)ctrifle(l with horror at the recital of his nice's
unhappy fate, and promised to accompany him at
night with a band of trusty archers to prevent every
Upposition on the part of the populace. They re-
paired full an hour before the time to the convents
81

Cr-

/

~ : ~
i1~
~~tj
{ i ''0.


* ~

f

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

gates, where a great crowd was assembled to wit.
ness the procession. The archers mixed among the
populace, and Olphos being recognized as a person
of rank, was permitted with his party to place him--
self opposite the great portal, through which the
pilgrims were to pass. The convent service lasted
till midnight, the finish of which was announced by
a bell.
The procession then began by the Capuchin
n~nks haunting hymns in honour of St. Glair, and
marching two and two; next came the novices with-.
out tapers, and the professed with. ~To these suc-
ceeded a beautiful young girl representing St. Lu-.
cia her eyes covered with a velvet bandy and led by
another nun. St. Catherine followed, and then St.
Genevieve, surrounded by grotesque imps, who en-
deavoured to abstract her attention from a devout
book, on which her eyes were fixed; at this the
sl)ectators laughed heartily. After a band of choris-
tei's, came the reliques of St. Clair; the nun who
bore the heart ~v4as the mother of St. Urbana, and
Olphos recognized her by Louis' description. Next
aI)peared the damsel representing St. Clair, select-
ed from the most lovely ~f all the nuns. Her dress
was inestimably rich, and she was seated on a mov..
ing throne. Her beauty attracted every eye, and
was contrasted With the sour visage of the Prioress,
who followed at the head of the remaining nuns,
with her eyes raised to heaven. The populace,
blessed her as she passed, but what alarm and con-
fusion followed, when Don Gomez arrested her in the
name of his Holiness. When she recovered her first
surprise, she called upon the people to protect her
from sacrilege and impiety; they were eagerly pre-.
aring to obey her, when 4Don Gomez rushed for-
~ard with his band of archers, and threatened the
populace with the vengeance oi the In(luisition: All
was again quiet, and Don Gomez declared he must
next arrest the Mother St. Urbana. At this 'no-
inent Olphos stepped forward, and the prioress cx
32

THE MURDERED NUN.

claimed, "HQIy Virgin, I am betrayed !"-" Yes,"
retorted St. Urbana, "betrayed by your villanies.
I am your accuser-I charge you with murder, and
stake my life for the issue of the a~c usatin."-A
murmur ran through the multitude, and an explana-
tion was vociferously demanded. The procession
in thea mean time dispersed, and the mob ordered St.
Urbana to harangue them from the vacant throne,
which she ascended and addressed them as follows:
"I am now at liberty to relate a tale, which had I
been in the power of the prioress would have cost
me my life, and numbered me with the once lovely
and gentle Claude di Calvados. I was entrusted
with her secrets, and she shared the love of every
one-even of the p rou~d and forbidding prioress.
Alas! Claude had Ii er faults, and who is free from
error? She violated the rules of our 'order, and
the sentence adjudged by the unforgiving Domina
was cruel and inhuman, though conformable to the
rigour of a law, altogether obsolete till she revived it.
This law decreed that the offender should be plung-
ed into a private dungeon, be there condemned to
perpetual solitude, and her friends be induced to be-
lieve she was dead. Here for the remnant of her
life her food was to be bread and water, and the
straw covered earth her bed.
"A council of twelve elders was called to try the
unfortunate Claude, and I was of the number. The
superior reproached her in the bitterest terms, and
commanded her to drink the contents of a goblet
which she held in her hand, as an expiation of her
crimes! the unhappy girl aware that the liquor was
poison, sued for life in the most piteous accents
and affecting prayers,-for a month, a week, a day
longer !-The prioress bid her recommend herself
to heaven's mercy, which had been insulted, and
whose avenging instrument sh~ was. Claude drank
it off, and the deed was soon accomplished. They
embittered her pangs in dying by their reproaches,
and such were her agonies, that they must amply
A3        33

It
t~1
I ~P

C


MARVELLoUS REPOSITORY.

have gratified the inhumanity of her enemies
When the victim ceased to breathe, and the Domi-.
na, with the assistant nuns, retired, I ventured out,
and had scarcely strength sufficient to regain my
own cell.- As I took the last farewell of the lovely
lifeless body, I vowed to bring her assassins, to
shame and death. No marks of violence appearing
on the corpse, it was given out that she expired
suddenly.-.
" At her funeral, I unguardedly dropped some
hints, and have ever since been so closely watched,
that it was at the utmost hazard of my life I convey~-
ed the secret to the -unhappy lady's relations. I
have no more to say; for what 1 have already said, 1
will answer with my life. I repeat that the prioress
is a murderess: that she has driven from the world,
perhaps from heaven, an unfortunate, whose offence
was light and venial: that she has abused the power
entrusted to her hands, and has- been a tyrant, a
barbarian, and a hypocrite. I also accuse tije four
nuns, Melhna, Porce la, Dolla, and Teresa as accom'
prices."'
Here St. Urbana ended her narrative. It created
horror and surprise throughout; but when she re~
lated the inhuman murder of Claude, the indignation
of the mob was so audibly testified, that it was
scarcely possible to hear the conclusion. This con-
fusion increased with every moment. At length a
multitude of voices exclaimed, that the prioress
should be given up to their fury. To this Don Go'
mez positively refused to consent. Even Olphos
bade the people remember that she had undergone
no trial, and advised them to leave her punishment
to the Inquisition. All representations were fruit-
less; the disturbances grew still ,more violent, and
the populace more exasperated. In vain did Don
Gomnez attempt to convey his prisoner out of the
throng. Wherever he turned, a band of rioters
barred his passage, and demanded her being deliver-
ed over to them more .loudly than before. Giomez

THE MURDERED NUN.

ordered his attendants to cut their way through the
multitude. Oppressed by numbers, it was impos-
sible for them to draw their swords. He threaten-
ed the mob with the vengeance of the Inquisition:
but, in this moment of popular phrenzy, even this
dreadful name had lost its effect. Though regret
for his sister made him look upon the prioress with
abhorrence, Olphos could not help pitying a woman
in a situation so terrible: but in spite of all his ex-
ertions, those of the Miarquis, Don Gomez, and
the archers, the people continued to-press onwards.
They forced a passage through the guards who pro-
tected their destined victim, dragged her from her
shelter, and proceeded to take upon her a most sum-
mary and cruel vengeance. Wild with terror, and
scarcely knowing what she said, the wretched wo-
man shrieked for a inoment's mercy: she protested
that she was innocent of the death of Claude, and
could clear herself from the suspicion beyond the
power of doubt. The rioters heeded nothing but
the .gratification of their barbarous vengeance.
They 'refused to listen to her: they shewed her
every sort of insult, loaded her with mud and filth,
and called her by the most approbrious appellations.
They tore her one from another, and each new tor-
mentor was more savage than the former. They
stifled with howls and execrations, her shrill cries
for mercy, and dragged her through the streets,
Spurning her, and trampling her, and treating her
with every species of cruelty, which hate or vindic-
tive fury could invent. At length, a flint, aimed by
some well directing hand, struck her full upon the
temple. She sunk upon the ground, bathed in
blood, and in a few minutes terminated her misera-
Sble existence. Yet though she no longer felt their
insults, the rioters still exercised their impotent rage
upon her lifeless body. They beat it, trod upon -it,
and ill used it, till it became no more than a mass o
flesh, unsightly, shapeless, and disgusting.
Unable to prevent this shocking event, Olphos
35

/

~ I

U

'1-


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

and his friends had beheld it with the utmost horror
b~t they were roused from their compelled inac-
tivity, on hearing that the mob were attacking the
convent of St. Clair~ The incensed populace, con-
founding the innocent with the guilty, had resolved
to sacrifice all the nuns of that order to their rage,
and not to leave one stone of the building upon an-
other. Alarmed at this intelligence, they hastened
to the convent, resolved to defend it if possible, or
at least to rescue the inhabitants from the fury of the
rioters. Most of the nuns had fled, but a few still
remained in their habitation. Their situation was
truly dangerous. However, as they had taken the
l)recautiOn of fastening the inner gates, with this
assistance, Olphos hoped to repel the mob, till Don
Gomez should return to him with a more sufficient
force.
Having bee~i conducted by the former disturbance
to the distance of some streets from the convent, he
did not immediately reach it. When he arrived,
the throng surrounding it was so excessive, as to
prevent his approaching the .gates. In the interim,.
the populace besieged the building with persever-
ing rage: they battered the walls, threw lighted
torches in at the windows, and sworethat by break
of day not a nun of St. Clair~s order should be left
alive. Olphos had just succeeded in piercing his
way through the croud, when one of the gates was
forced open. The rioters poured into the interior
part of the building, where they exercised their
vengeance upon every thing which found itself in
their passage. ~rhey broke the furniture into
~ jeces, tore down the pictures, destroyed the re-
liques, and in their hatred of the servant, forgot
all respect to the saints. Some employed them-
selves in searching out the nuns, others again in set-
ting fire to the pictures and other valuable furniture
which it contained. These latter produced the
most decisive desolation. Indeed the consequences
of their action were more sudden than themselves
26

THE MURDERED NUN.

I,

had expected or wished. The flames rising from
the burning piles caught part of the building, which,
being old and dry, the conflagration spread with
rapidity from room to room. The walJs were soon
shaken by the devouring element. The columns
gave way, the roofs came tumbling down upon the
rioters, and crushed many of them beneath their
weight. Nothing was to beheard but shrieks and
groans. The convent was wrapt in flames, and.the
whole presented a scene of devastation and horror.
Giphos entered with the rabble, and vainly en-
deavou red to repress their in discriminating fury, till
the progress of the flames compelled him to seek
for his own safety. The mob now hastened out with
more eagerness than they had entered; the door
ways were suddenly closed up, and the flames ra-
~)i(lly advancing, many perished from this canse as
ivell aspressure. Olphos, more fortunate, made his
escape at a small door in a further aisle of the chapel,.
which led him to the foot of St. Clair's sepulchre.
Here he stQpped to breathe, and found he was fol-
lowed l)y Gomez and some of his people. A wicket
door in the wall opened into the garden of the Capu-
chins, and they all passed through except Olphos,
who being the last, observed the door of the sepulchre
to be softly opened. Some one looked out, but on
seeing a stranger, uttered a shriek, flew back and de-
scended the marble steps. Giphos immediately l)ur-
sued, and followed through dark and subterranean
vaults, till he could only trace the object he was in
quest of, by the sound of the feet. He at length be-
came quite bewildered and with his sword drawn,
grouped his way till he caught the ~limmcr of a lamp,
which as he drew near, he perceived was placed be
fore the statue of St. Clair.
Several females stood round it, and, from their
conversation, Giphos learned they had flown there
for security from the mob. They were thrown into
the most dreadful alarm when he presented himseW,
~ut he soon dissipated their fears. While he wa~
D                27

. - -

/

t1'i~
i]
I      jl
I I
4,
ti
[V~II
~ I
I
I           141:

ij *A~ "'4
I j
&amp; I
'.4,


eI

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

assuring them of protection, a loud groan seemed to
issue from the middle of the vault in which he and
the nuns were. A second groan followed, and the
noise plainly came from the statue. The nuns ac-
counted for the noise as a miraculous intimation from
the saint that she was offended at the proceedings of
the people, and showed Olphosahuman hand, grasp-
in gh er arm, which had once belonged to a man who
bad sacrilegiously mounted the statue of St. C lair to
steal a valuable ring from her finger. Th6 robber
could'be released only by amputation, since which
he had tu~i~ied hermit, and no one had dared to touch
the statue~ under the fear of certain destruction.
This extraordinary legend led Olphos to examine
the arm of St. Clair with particular attention; and
jumping over the iron railing which enclosed her, lie
ascended the pedestal, and discovered a small iron
knob between the shoulder and the supposed man's
hand; on pressing it, it seemed to loosen a chain that
attached the wooden image to the base. Lifting this
off, he perceived a heavy iron grate in the hollow
of the pedestal, which, with some difTh~ulty, he rais.-
ed, inviting the nuns to follow; this they declined,
and he descended a flight of rude misshapen steps to
a cavern and thought he perceived a spark of light:
-as he wandered on, he lost sight of it, but a plain
tive moan stole upon his ear, and he directed his steps
towards it. It became more audible as he advanced,
and at length conducted him to a narrow gloomy dun-
geon in one side of the cavern.-.Thr6ugh the ~Ta-.
poury and pestilential fog that clouded this cell, by
the glimmering beams of a lamp, he saw a pale, ema-
ciated human being, lying on a bed of straw. She
was partly naked, her disordered hair concealed her
face, and a tattered rag enveloped her limbs. With
ene hand she pressed a small bundle to her bosom;
the other hung inactively down. Her sunken eyes
were directed to her crucifix, and beside her straw,
was a basket and an earthen pitcher. Olphos stop-
j~ed a moment to contemplate this horrid object: sIit~

THE MURDF!RED NUN.

cast her eyes towards the staircase, and then in a
feeble voice uttered, "No one comes to me !-Two
long days passed and no food !-Oh, cruel, to length-
en out my miseries by a death of hunger !" She then
shivered, drew the rug closer over her shoulders,
and addressed the l)undle which lay on her breast.
"Dear babe, once so lovely, so like him, how have a
few days changed thee!-Yet still art thou dear to
me, arid I will weep over thy putrid form !" She then
shed some tears, which she wiped away with her
tresses, and stretched out her hand to the pitcher,
hot put it back again, exclaiming, "Not a drop!
Oh! I would give worlds for a drop of' water to
allay my burning thirst !~'
Olphos, no longer able to contain his feelings,
entered the dungeon, and in a soft voice, said he
was come to relieve her woes. The captive start-.
e(l, and eagerly demanded if the prioress had sent
him to destroy her. Giphos related that he was
come to give her liberty and comfort, and that she
had nothing to fear from the prioress, who had been
sacrificed to The popular indignation. As Olphos
stooped to raise her, the beams of the lamp struck
full upon his face, and the captive exclaimed," Is it
l)ossible !-.Those features !---Ah! it is -" She
said no more, but sunk upon the straw in a fainting
fit. Giphos lost no time in removing an iron chain,
which encircled the body of the unknown victim,
and taking her in his arms, by the iron lamp, he
gained the iron grate, where he met the nuns, who
were waiting his return with the greatest anxiety.
They busily employed themselves in restoring the
inanimate female, till they were alarmed by the
sound of Don Goinez's cries, calling on GIphos to
know if he were safe.
The beautiful Almira, who had personated St.
Clair, requested not to be separated from the rescued
jwisoner~ and Don Gomez conducted them both to her
Here the unfortunate was immediately put
to bed, and medical assistance procured. As her
29

U

Iii
I ~

/

1


7?

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

illness had principally arisen from her weakness
and want of wholesome food, she very soon assumed
an altered appearance; and when her history was
related, she proved to be the supposed deceased and
sacrificed Claude! -The account which Claude
gave of her sufferi ..~s and imprisonment ran thus:
"My imagined death was attended with the
greatest agonies, and when I awoke from my trance,
azi hour elapsed before I was sufficiently collected to
examine the surrounding objects. I found myself
extended upon a sort of wicker couch, with four
handles, which doubtless served the nuns to convey
me to my grave. A lamp was over my head, and
four narrow walls encompassed me. Perceiving my
grated door was unfastened, I rose to endeavour to
explore my way out; but the first thing I put my
hand on was the corrupted head of a nun, who had
(lied some months before. This dreadful discovery
proml)ted me the more eagerly to remove, and I as-
a         ended through the grated door, and got jut oavault,
which was strewed with sepulchral fragments and
mouldering bones. I advanced eagerly to the door
which formed the outlet, and to my horror found it
fastened on the other side.
I now abandoned myself to the prospect of per-
i~hing with hunger, and projected destroying ray-
a         self, hut the sake of the infant Ibore prevented me.
Suddenly a neighboring tomb caught my eye, on
which was a basket containing some coarse bread,
and a small bottle of water. 1 blessed the friendly
hand which had placed these viands there, and de~
poured them with eagerness. I then sat down, de-
hating on the cause of finding this relief, and was
inexpressibly delighted with hearing the sound of
footsteps approach, and seeing a light advance; but
all my hopes~'ere dashed to pieces when I heard
the door unbolted, and saw the prioress enter, with
the four nuns, who had been. witnesses of my sup-
posed death. She gazed upon me With angry eyes,
and exclaimed, "Do I see a repentant or a criminal?
A                       40

/

It

TUE MURDERED NUN.

-T fear those tears are shed less for your fault, than
to excite my compassion.-But I do not wish for
your death, but your repentance. I administered
an opiate, not a poison, that you might feel the ago-.
nies of a guilty conscience, without dying. I shall
now purify you with wholesome correction, and re~
vive the long neglected laws of our convent, for
such incontinent crimes as yours. All Madrid
thinks you dead; I have taken sufficient caution to
continue the mystery, therefore abandon all thoughts
of this world, and prepare for that which is soon to
a   come. Now listen to die sentence of St. Clair.
Beneath these vaults are dungeons allotted to such
criminals as yourself. Thither are you to be con-
veyed. Food and raiment, just sufficient to support
nature in the coarsest manner, will be supplied you.
There, chained down, and illuminated only by ~
feeble lamp, you ~vill have leisure to repent. Fol-
low me!" Thunderstruck at thi~ sentence, I faint-
ed, and was conveye(l by two of the nuns to the
principal shrine of St. Clair. The nuns then raise1(l
an iron grate, hitherto concealed by the image,
which was taken from the pedesta~ ~n~d w~ descend-
ed. I was conducted down a frightful abyss, an(l
forced into one of the cells that lined the walls of
the cavern. I now interceded for mercy, for the
sake of my unborn babe, but the prioress cursed my
innocent offspring, and vowed that I should bring it
into the world, feed,* ~and bury it, unbefriended!
Her gross inhumanity threw me into a second fit,
and when I recovered, my tyrant had departed. I
then awoke to the horrors of my situation, but
scantily supplied with clothing, food, and oil for my
lamp. To add to my misery, the pains of child-
birth came on, and I was delivered of my forlorn
burihen. It came alive into the world, but soon
perished from my ignorance, and a want of proper
attendance. The bitter wind that whistled through
the vaults, the misty damps that arose from the
ground, in a fe1w hours finished its existence, and
41

4a
11
ii
~f ia   Ia
I I
~ } I
aa~jt

I.

a a


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

witnessed its death with agonies that even wound
me severely n~ow.
"Sister Theresa visited me every twenty-four
hours, arid would fain have buried the infant, but
the contemplation of its features was my only com-
fort, and I would not have it separated from me;
nor,-when I quitted my prison, could I scarcely be
persuaded 'to entomb the precious remains. The
reason of Theresa's not visiting me as usual, with
my stipulated allowance, I have been since informed
by the Mother Urbana; she was suddenly taken ill,
and a dangerous infectious fever confined her to her
bed, from which cause no one would attend her,
but the lay sister who was appointed to nurse.
The prioress, and the nuns in the mystery, had given
me over entirely to her care. One day passed away
without food; another, and a third arrived, but no
Theresa, no sustenance! The lapse of time was
discernable by the wasting of my lamp, to feed
which, fortunately, oil enough for four days had
been left me. In this dreadful dilemma, I thought
the Doinina had ordered the nuns to let me perish.
I was become an absolute skeleton; I had the pangs
of hunger gnawing at my vitals, and groans were
all I had strength to utter. I was looking for the
moment of my dissolution, when my beloved brother
arrived in time to save me. My dim sight at first
could not recognize him, but when it did, the burst
of rapture overpowered me, and my emotions found
refuge in insensibility. 0 Glphos, d'Axala, how
shall I repay the debt of gratitude I owe to your cx-
ertion~, how compensate you for the affluence and
ease I now feel, surrounded by those I esteem, and
about to become the wife of him who has long l)e fore
been wedded to my heart! d'Axala, think not, be-
cause you once found me frail, that you will ~vi~ness
such another error in my future conduct. No!--I
am fully sensible of the great a rid grievous error I
have committed, but 1 trust heaven has accepted
the sufferings I have endured,' as an expiation of
42

THE MURDERED NUN.

that crime.-Had it not been for the consequences
of that unguarded moment, I had never seen you
again: but, Fate has ordained it otherwise, and I
rejoice in the wise dispens4ion of Providence!
Here then shall the subject rest, and my future life
convince d'Axala, that the error of his mistress shall
operate to render her more exemplary as a wife."
Here Claude ceased, and her friends replied to her
address, in terms equally affectionate and encour-
aging. It may easily be expected that Claude had,
before commencing her narrative made inquiries
co~lcerning Don Almagro.
The wretched situation in which he lay, gave her
a great shock, b~t as there did not appear any dan
ger of not surviving his malady, she secretly exulted
in the cause of his illness, since it proved the
strength of his affection. Giphos undertook the
pleasing duty of communicating to his friend the
happiness that awaited him, in the liberation of
Claude, and her ral)id convalescence. Notwith-
standing the caution Olphos used in relating the in-
tellige rice, Almagro's transports were so violent, as
to threaten his life from an excess of joy. These
once past, assured of the completion of his wishes,
and above all, blest with the presence of Claude,
who, immediately, when she had recovered under
the care of Almira, hastened to attend her lover, and
soon enabled him to overcome the effects of his late
malady. The ease of his mind communicated itself
to his body, an.d he recovered his health with asto-
nishing rapidity. rrhe next time the happy party
met, Giphos expressed his satisfaction at the pros~
pect of being so intimately connected with a man,
for whom he had so much esteem. No obstruction
could now present itself, (the Pope's bull having
liberated Claude from all monastic engagements)
except the illness of Don Olphos-which now
threatened to place him in the same situation his
friend had just esca1)ed from.
His uncle, the Duke di Calvados, had before soil-

/

t C
Ii
~ I
~'
I ~ ~
ii
11' j
tj'

I

11
114


7-

MARVELLOUs REPOSIToRY.

cited his affections in favour of Ahnira, the young
nun, who, with several others, had taken refuge)
during the riots, in the sepulchre of St. Clair. He
could have no objection to this beautiful girl, who,
from person, accomplishments, and rarik, was a fit
match for the first nobleman in Spain. He begged
only delay till he had forgotten thie shock he had ex-
perienced in the sepulchre, which, added to the af-.
fection lie had long felt for a beloved an'd sacrificed
object, whom-he had discovered in the vaults, had
terminated in a fit of despondency. .
These circumstances for a time clouded the mind
of Olphos, but at length they gave way to the re-
monstrances of his friend, and the beauty of Almira,
and he eventually entered the regions of Hymen,.
with his frien dAl ma gro and Claude.

END OF THE MURDERED NUN.

44

4

I

THE COLOSSUs OF RHODES.

AACCOUNT OF THE PRODIGIOUS COLOSSUS OF R~IoDES,
BEING ONE OjF THE CELEBRATED WONDERS
OF THE WORLD.
THIs Colossus was dedicated to the sun, by The-
agonis, Prince of the Island of Rhodes, and it is re-
ported, that there never passes a day which gives
not additional lustre by thze beams of that planet.
Chares Lindius, the disciple of Lysippus, is said to
have finished and erected this vast Colossus of brass,
(the podigious height of which has given the name
of Colossus to all other statues of excessive magni-
tude,) about A. M. 3686, in the space of twelve
years. It is holvever said that through a mistake
in the calculation, Chares was reduced to such des-
pair, that he hanged himself before he had finished
nis work: the honour of which he left to his count ry-
man Laches Lindius. Thu the one having finish-
ed what the other began, it is easy to reco ncile
those authors, who attribute the building of the
Colossus to either of these two different architects.
The legs of this statue were so extended, that
one was placed onV each side the harbour, through
which a passage was left, large and wide enough
for vessels to enter under full sail-and the thumb
of this extraordinary figure was so great that no
-man could grasp it. It had in its right hand a sea
light, or fire; for lighting which there was the con-
venience of a stair-case in the inside, the stones of
which served as a counterpoise to it.
This wonderful statue stood but 56 years. An
earthquake overthrew it, A. M. 3742i. Part of the
''agmenis, which fell upon the land, lay there 865
years, but when the Saracens took possession of
the city of Rhodes, A. D. 050, Maurion, Sultan of
Egypt and Persia, caused 900 camels to be laden
with the brass which was found upon the land, and
sold it to a Jew merchant, called Emessences.
45

iii
ii
11 'II
~ I
II

I.
I)
ii


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

XVithout doubt, the greater part fell into the sea,
notwithstanding the, earthquake threw it down
towards the land side. This statue cost 800 attic
talents in money.
Those who are acquainted with the obelisk and
Pompey's column, of one entire })iece of granite
marble, will be the less surprised at the mechanic
capacity of the ancients, in raising such a prodi-
gious statue. And though we should allow the con-
jecture of some, that those large pieces of granite
(the like of which no quarries of latter times have
discovered)are rather the produce of some lost art
than of nature; yet the great stones, all of the piece,
on the tops of the pyramids of Cairo, ivill always
stand as incontestable proofs of their great skill, in
raising burdens of a stupendous weight

LAST MOMENTS OF THE MOTHER OF BONAPARTE
THE evening preceding her death, she called to~
gather all her household, she was supported on
white velvet pillows, her bed was crimson damask,
and in the ~entre hung a crown decorated with
flowers, the whole of the apartment was lighted in
grand style. S l~ e called her servants, one after an-
other, to her bej -side, who knelt and kissed her ex-
tended hand, which was skinny, and covered with a
profusion of rings. To her chief director df' finances,
Juan Berosa, she said, "Juan.,my.blessinggo with
thee, and thine." rI~o Maria Belgrady, her waiting
maid, she said, "Go to Jerome, he will take c~iIe
of thee; when my grand son is Emperor of France
he will make thee a great woman." She then call-
ed Col. Darrcy to her bed-side; he had attended
her in all her fortunes, and in Napoleon's will had
assigned him a donation of ~t~14 ,OO0. " You," said
she, " have been a good friend to inc and my family;
I have left you what will make you happy ; never

46

REMARKABLE CHICI~EN~

forget my grand son, and what he and you may ar-
rive at is beyond my discerning; but you will both
be great."
She then called in all her junior servants, and
with a pencil, as their names were called, marked.
down a sum of money to be given to each, they
were then dismissed, and she declared she had done
with the world, and requested water, she washed
her hands, and laid down upon her pillow. Her
attendants found her 4ead, with her hand under her
head, and a prayer book upon her breast.
Thus died the mother of one who has been a me-
teor on earth, and a blazing star to direct others!
She had some amiable qualities, and considering
that her rise from poverty to wealth was so rapid,
her way of conducting herself, and proud manner,
may be pardonable. She did much good from os-
tentation, and died regretted for What she could do,
not lamented by any one, for what she had done.

A CHiCKEN WITH A HUMAN COUNTENANCE.

LAST year a Jew exhibited for money, at Posen,
in South Prussia, a chicken with a human counte-
iiance. This chicken was hatched on an estate
near ~Wreschen, (i. e. ~Wrzesnia,) in the district of
Posen; and the Jew had accepted of it as an equiva-
lent for a tailor's small bill, due to him by the own-
er of the estate, who asserted, that another similarly
formed chicken had been the same time hatched by
the same hen, but soon after died.-The chicken
which was shewn by the Jew survived, had a vei~
lively appearance, was full grown, and above a year
old. The body was covered with variegated feath-
ers, and as far as the part of the neck, where the
head begins, in no respect distinguished by any
singularity from other chickens. The head did not
exceed in size that of other chickens, but it was
47

/7

4
I'
k 44j IhI
~  ri    ~
I    ti
I ~
~ I
4~ i~i4~
~  44   44

I I~.

7
ii

T

4
- t


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY..
without feathers,'and covered with a skin of a some
what bluish colour.~ The sockets of the eyes were
shaped exactly as in a human countenance, and over
them, two arches of very fine down, formed regular
eye-brows. The upper' payt of the bill was so bent
and blunted off, as to form a well sh4ed nose, ex-
cepU that it was of a horny substance. Under the
nose a regular human' mouth, with lips, and two
rows of closely united, white pointed teeth, com-
pleted this singular lusus nature. The tongue was
rounded and shaped like a human tongue. Indeed
the whole countenance had so astonishingly exact a
conformity with that of a 'human being, on a dimi-
~'iutive scale, that to discover it, there 4was not the
least occa~iofl to call in the aid of the imagination.
The above account of this phenomena was signed
and published by M. Schwarz, a gentleman holding
a respectable office under the Prussian government
'at Posen.

AN EXTRAORDINARY CASE OF SPONTANEOUS HUMAN
COMBUSTION.
THE widow Hacquin, of Bar-le-Duc, aged 55
years, who lived quite easy upon the interest of her
property in the Sinking Fund, died a few days since,
n the most deplorable and astonishing manner.
We presume that this death is a new example of
the phenomena called spontaneous human comhus~.
lion. This woman, who was corpulent, was, ac-
cording to report, in the habit of using spiritous
liquors imprudently. A vase which stood near here
filled with burning coals, determined the inflama-
tion of ~ body. She was burnt to a cinder in-
ward~y. The extremities were not affected. The
room and her clothing also escaped the fire.
43

SOLDIER TURNED COOK.
SOLDIER TURNED COOK.

PIIILIv the second, successor to the Emperor
Charles the fifth, being at war with the Algerines,
issued ordei~s for leaving recruits at Granada, a fa-
*    mous city in Spaiii. As soon as the men were en-
listed, they received billets for lodging at the houses
of the inhabitants till the following day, when they
were sent off to the army. Among others, they en-
listed a young man possessed of great personal
bep4uty, and ended with a considerable portion of
*    wit, as the sequel of our tale will show. After re-
*     ceiling his billet, he repaired to the house to which
it was addressed, but it was late in the evening be-
fore he arrived. having knocked at the door, a ser-
vant made her appearance, and asked what he
ventedd? to which he replied, that he had the. king's
order for passing the night there. The maid having
acquainted her mistress with his business, she came
down stairs, and told him, as she was recently mar-
ried, and her husband absent from home, she could
not think of receiving a man into her house on any
account whatever. The soldier, however, unwilling
to admit the justice of her delicate scruples, told her
that he was extremely sorry to put her to an incon-
venience, but that it was now too late to seek for
another lodging; his comrades had alletired to
their respective places of destination, and lie felt no
~ inclination to sleep in the street. "Put me where-
ever you please," said he, "I will endeavour to
give you as little trouble as possible: but remember
my orders are positive, and if you persist in refusing
me admission, you will reduce me to the disagree-
able necessity of having recourse to violence." The
*     lady was extremely mortified at this declaration
which threatened to interruPt her evening's amuse
inent: but finding it in vain to resist, she told hei
maid to let him in, and put him to sleep in the gar
ret.
49

If
ml
~
Ill ~
4
Ii
f f

II
11
~ If'
If
11111
44  ~
~   ~j ~1~I~fI
f I
'1

(I

*1 ~
f~.

44 1'
I
i~ f*

t

- 1
*


I

f

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
"I have not supped madam," said the soldier, as
he entered; "n~ot that I mean to ask you for, or sup-
pose that you are obliged to furnish me with a sup-
per-that the~ king takes care of-but as it is late
and it would be impossible to get any thing in th~
town at this hour-(for be it remarked that the
cities in Spain, are not so well supplied with pub-'
'lie houses as those of other European countries)-if
you will be kind enough to provide me with some~~
thing, 1 will cheerfully pay whatever you may re-
quire~" "What !" replied the belle, with an air of
disdain, "do you take my house for a wine house?
Go to bed quietly, for yo.u shall have no supper
here ?"
The soldier, knowing a search for supper else-
where would be fruitless, and fearing, moreover,
that on his return he should find the door shut
against him, resolved to bear his fate with patience,
and retire to bed supperless. He was accordingly
shown into a garret, half filled with lumber, in the
corner of which stood a miserable bed. Though
the accommodations were not such as, from the ap~
pearance of the house, he had expected to find, he
was obliged to accept them without a murmur; for
besides that, the soldiers dare not give themselves
those airs of importance, in Spain, which they are
apt to display in other parts of the continent; they
are more circumspect in their conduct, when quar..
tered in large towns, than when they are posted in
villages, where the inhabitants have no means of
resistance.
It is no wonder, that on such a bed, and an empty
stomach, our hero was little disposed to sleep; he' ac-
cordingly continued turning from side to side, with-
out closing his eyes; about on e o'clock in the morn-
ing he perceived a light through a crack in the floor
of his garret; prompted by curiosity, he got out of
bed, and applying his eye to ihe aperture, discover.~
ed a handsome apartment, well furnished, where
there was a large fire, with two spits loaded with
50

SOLDIER TURNED COOX.
game; but the best part of the sight was the mis
tress of the house clasp ~d in the arms of a young ad
locate, at least such he appeared by his dress. It
is almost needless to observe, that the maid' was em-
ployed in attending the game, and that the whole
of the farce was exhibited in her presence.
"Zounds!" said the soldier to himself, "is this the
woman whose delicacy would not permit her to re-
ceive a man into her house during her husband's
absence !" But as he perceived the necessity of re-
mainin'~ still for some time longer, he observed
every tThng that passed without speaking a word,
and already devoured with his eyes, the supper
which he saw at the fire; a tantalizing sight foi~ a
hungry man.
At length he saw~ the cloth laid; and after some
bottles of wine cooled in ice, according to the Span-
ish custom, had been placed on the table, th elady
and her inamorata took their seats. Before, how-
ever, they had time to begin, a loud knock was
heard at the door, and the maid running to the
window to see who was there, hastily returned, and
announced to 'her aifrighted mistress the arrival of
her husband. "Alas madam," said she, "my mas-
ter, whom you did not expect this week, is now at
the door !" Fear and astonishment were now
strongly depicted in the countenance of the fair in-
constant, who was at a strange loss what to do with
her lover. To conceal him was not possible, as the
whole house was leb except the chamber in which
they then were, father behind it, where the maid
sle~4, and the garret where they had put the soldier.
If she had bidden him in the maid's room, he could
not have got out without being seen, as he would be
obliged to pass through her own apartment; and she
justly thought it would be risking too much, to en-
trust the soldier with a secret she was so greatly in-
terested to conceal; nor was it possible to let him
down stairs, as there was but one stair-case in the
house, and were he to attempt to descend it, he
51

tI~

III
N
ii
Ii
ilL
'I'
~{ p
It I
ii

I

"'

/~

~t~' fxj~
I ''~

t

?


"'4'''
2 '~

7

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

must infallible meet the husband, who now left no
time for deliberation, as he continued to thunder 'at
the door, with all his might. The only thing she
could do, therefore, was to hide her lover under the
bed, and to put the supper, wine, fruit, plate, dishes,
&amp;c. into a large wardrobe by the bed side, after
which she seated herself with great composure by
the fire.
At length the husband, having gained admission,
went up stairs, and the moment he entered the
room,'his wife ran towards him, and throwing her
arms about his neck, "Ha! my dear, what joy do I
experience at the sight of you~ the pleasure too was
so unexpected." "'Why my dear," replied the
good man, "I finished my business much sooner than
I expected, and I was so anxious to see you, that I
returned with all possible speed. I have rode
eighteen leagues to day, being resolved to get home
at any rate, that I might not have to sleep in any of
the miserable inns on the road. But how comes it
that you have such a fire at this time of year ?"-" I
have got a violent pain in my bowels," replied the
wife, " and I had the fire lighted in order to warm a
napkin to apply to the part. I believe the pain pro-
ceeded from a fright occasioned by a soldier coming
here to demand a lo(lging in the king's name;
could not beat' the idea of admitting a man into the
house in your absence, my dear." The soldier hear-
ing his name mentioned, 'thought' this was the pro-
per time for his appearance; he therefore dressed
himself, and coming softly down stairs, applied his
ear to the key-hole of the door, to listen to the con-
versation, which still continued. "But this is not
all my love," said the husband: "I have had no
supper, and am half dead with hungry, have ymi
nothingto give me?" "There is not any thing in
the house," replied she, "you know I did not ex-
pect you; and when you are from home, I generally
content myself with a roasted apple." "It is very
hard," said he, "to go to bed without supper, and it

SOLDIER TURNED COO1~.

seems I must, for there is nothing to be had at this
time of night." The soldier hearing this, knocked
at the door, which being opened, he saluted the hus-
band, and apologized for the inconve4ence ~vhich
he had occasioned his wife; he told him that he had
come hither by the king's orders, and lest he might
suspect his veracity, produced his billet. "Never..
theless, sir," said he, "I trust the lady will do me
the justice to own, that I have conducted myself
with strict propriety." "Oh certainly !" answered
the belle. "You have not 'supped, sir," resumed
the soldier, "any more than myself; will you per-
mit me to treat you and your wife? I assure youl
can regale you in a sumptuous manner.,' "It is
impossible, sir," said the husband, "search the
whole town over, you will not be able to find a sin-
gle thing at this time of night." "Do not trouble
yourself about that," replied the soldier, "supper
will soon be ready. I think I may. speak freely to
you, for I am sure you ar~ too worthy a man to re-
port me to the inquisition. You must know then,
that I understand something of magic, and have a
number of devils at my command. You shall pres-
ently see what credit I have in the infernal re-
gions, where, without vanity, there are as good
cooks as any upon earth."
Having said this, he took a piece of lighted wood
from off the fire, and pronounced some incoherent
expressions, which not being understood by himself,
were of course unintelligible to every body else.
At length he exclaimed, 'in a solemn and audible
voice-" I command you Barthasibas, to bring sup-
per for three without 'delay; and take care to let us
have what is good.-What do you choose to eat,
sir?" said he to the husband, "you have only to
speak." " Whatever you please, sir," said the
other, who was so frightened that his hair stood on
an end. " Bring then," continued the soldier, " an
excellent soup, with a boiled capon, a roast fowl, a
brace of partridges, a leveret, and\a couple of wood-
E~Z                 58

122
III
1~2
~.2
4
I
~ 1;
22'
1',
22
ii'

2j
4
1212
y1~2
11
ii
i'1
I 11
21
I K'
j0I~

{ '~~V"':
'1 r
2 /

(


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                             SOLDIER TURNED COOY.

cocks !" which were what he had seen at the fire.
"Will that content you, sir? is that enough?" "0
yes sir," replied the poor man, trembling' from head
to foot, "and a great deal more than is necessary;
we shall never be able to eat one half of it." "110
ho! Barth asib us," resumed the ~ohlier, "a~dd a do-
zen of larks; and be sure to let us have some good
wine, old and cool, and a dessert too, well decked
with sweetineats, and every other appendage. But
no malice, do nothing that can frighten the lady.
For which reason, I desire that every thing may be
placed ready for eating, in yonder wardrobe, by the
bed side.-Sir," said he to the husband, "you have
only to open it, and be assured you will find every
thing I have ordered." The wife, perceiving that
she was detected, and that any opposition on her
part, would only tend to expose her the more, has-
tened to open the wardrobe herself, where she found
all that had been mentioned, to the utter astonish-
ment of her husband, who fancied himself in the
other world. She hd~rself pretended to be equally
surprised, and indeed had not less reason to be so,
though not on the same account.
The soldier, determined to sustain the part which
he had assumed, ordered the cloth to he immedi-
ately laid, that the supper might not get cold. As
he was half dead with hunger, he seized the leg of a
capon, which he devoured in a trice. "Taste it
sir," said he, "believe me the flavour is delicious.~~
The poor man, still shaking with fear, and fully
persuaded that what he saw was solely the effect of
magic, could scarcely summon up sufficient resolu-
tion to obey. The wife also feigning a dread she
did not experience, observed, that for her part, she
could not think of touching a morsel. "Fear no-
thing," said the soldier, "eat boldly and be assured
you will find every thing of the best sort." The
husband's hunger at length overcoming his fears,
he ventured to yield to its dictates; and having by
dint of persuasion induced his wife to follow his ex~
54

ample, they both agreed that~they had never eaten
a better supper; the former in particular, observed
that the cooks of hell were equally expert with
those of Grenada.
After supper, the soldier taking compassion on
the poor advocate, whose fears, though powerful,
had not subdued his appetite, was anxious to give
him an opportunity of escaping from his prison;
with this view, he thus addressed the master of the
house :-" You must allow sir, that I have treated
you like a gentleman; but that is not enough, I will
now show you the spirit to whom we are indebted
for our treat." " Heaven forbid!" exclaimed the
wife, who trembled through fear of detection. "Do
not be afraid," replied the soldier, who plainly per-
ceived the cause of her alarm; "it is not what you
imagine; I entertain too great a respect for the fair
sex to disoblige one of them." The husband's op-
rsition was not less violent, though it proceeded
rom very different motive; but the soldier assur-
ed him he need be under no apprehensions. "Ma-
dam," said he to the wife, "order all the doors in
the house to be opened, not forgetting the street
door, for the moment I command him to begone, if
he meets with any resistance, he will break through
every thing." The servant had no sooner complied
with this request, than the soldier, rising from his
seat, exclaimed in a loud voice, "Barthasibas, thou
who hast regaled us so handsomely, who now seest
us, and hearest us, quick! begone! the doors are
open, therefore do no~. mischief. Show yours lfen
passant to the company, but not in your natural
form, that you may not frighten the lady: as to The
gentleman, there is no fear of alarming a man of
his courage. Pray sir, in what shape would you
desire to see him?" " Oh! in whatever shape you
please sir," answered the husband. "Appear then
in the dress of an advocate," resumed the solilier.
The poor prisoner, finding so favourable an 01)
portunity for effecting his escape, thrust his hat
55

II
V
I $
2
~:
IA

I'

if
t~1
U
Ii
I I
Ii
V
II I
i P
I
1*

9
i


I

f

MARvELLOUs REPOSITORY.
over his eyes, that he might not be known, and skip.
ped across the chamber with the agility of a rope
dancer. 'The husband, at sight of hinm, betrayed
such symptoms of' fear, as almost discomposed the
muscles of the soldier;'while the wife, in order to
support the farce, sunk into a. pretended swoon.
She was immediately undressed, and put 'to bed,
whither the husband -followed her, and the soldier
retired to his garret, much better disposed to sleep
than before. The husband's thoughts were so en-
tirely occupied on what he had seen, that he could
neither think or talk upon any thing else during the
whole night.
The next morning the soldier came to take leave
of his host, who returned him a thousand thanks;
he then took post in the street, within sight of the
door, where having waited till the husband was
gone out, he returned to spay- his respects to the
wife, who was still in bed, and on his appearance
hid her face beneath the. bed-clothes. " Why -Ma-
dam," said thie soldier, " should you refuse me the
pleasure of seeing your face? Have I been unfortu--.
nate enough to incur your displeasure?" " So far
from it," said she, "that it, is the sense I entertain
of the obligations you have imposed upon me, which
makes me ashamed to appear before you." This
confession extorted a reply equally gallant, and af-
ter some conversation, he politely took his leave,
highly pleased with the adventures of the night, and
laughing heartily at the disappointment of the
young advocate.
This adventure soon became the talk of the town;
and the husband was almost the only man in Gre-
nada, who was ignorant of the deceptive parts of it'.

EXTRAORDINARY FORTITUDE.
EXTRAORDINARY FORTITUDE.

.ONE day the Hurons, having the advantage in a
skirmish, made an Iroquois chief captive, and he was
brought to one of the Huron villages, where the fa-
thers assembled. No sooner was he arrived, than it
was decreed, in an assembly of the ancient savages,
that he should be presented to one of their old chiefs,
to replace his nephew, who had been killed in war,
or to be disposed of as he should think proper. Bre-
beuf, one of the Jesuits, immediately resolved to
convert him to Christianity. The captive was
clothed in a new beaver habit, with a curious neck-
lace, and his temples were encircled with a kind of
diadem: he .was surrounded by a troop of trium-
phant warriours, and seemed to be quite unconcern-
ed at his fate.
When Brebeuf approached him, he perceived,
that, before his fate was determined, he had been
tortured. One of his hands had been crushed be-
tween two flints, and he had lost a finger. His
other hand had lost two, which had been cut off by
a hatchet. The joints of his arms had been burnt,
and a great gash appeared upon one of them. All
this had been inflicted upon the poor wretch, before
he entered the Huron village;- for he had no sooner
arrived there, than he was treated with the greatest
endearments, and a young woman was assignedehim
f'or his wife. Sdch was this barbarian's situation
when he was converted by Brebeuf; and he was
esteemed to'be the first adult convert, that ever was
made of the Iroquois nation; being baptized by the
name of Joseph.
All this while the captive was loaded with caress-
es, and Brebeuf was suffered to take him to his tent
every night; but his sores now became putrid andl
full of worms. To increase his misery, he was car-
ried in triumph from village to village, and where-
ever he came he was obliged to sing, so that some
57

44
Ii

1,J"
II
~i4
4~i

4

~441

Ii
I
i  ~''4,,'
I j ~
ii
1$
~

I' 4
~1 4~
~1
I
t 4

iiI,
Ii
~ '1~

f


/1~

41

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

times his voice entirely failed ~irn; nor had he the
least respite, but when he was alone with Brebeuf,
or some of' his missionaries. At last he was con-
veyed to the village where the chief lived, who was
to be the disposer of his fate. The, captive present~
ed himself with an air perfectly unconcerned, to his
supposed uncle, who after surveying him, talked to
him in the following strain :-~-" Nephew," said he,
"you cannot imagine the joy I conceived, when I
understood that you were to supply the place of him
whom] have lost' V had already prepared a mat for
you in my cabin, and it was with the utmost satis~
faction, that I resolved to pass the rest of my days
with you in peace; but the condition I see you in,
forces me to alter my resolution.
"It is plain that the tortures you suffer, mwst ren~
der your life insupportable to yourself, and you
must think that I do you service in abridging its
course. They who have mangled you in this man-
ner, have caused your death. 'rake courage, there-
fore, my dear nephew!-Prepare tlii~ ciening to
show yourself a man, and that you are superior to
the force of torments." The captive heard this dis-
course with the greatest indifference, and only an-
swered with a resolute voice, that it was very well.
The sister of the deceased then served him with his
victuals, and caressed him in the most affectionate
manner, while the old chieftain put his own pipe in
his mouth, and wiped the sweat from his brow, with
the most te~der demonstrations of paternal love.
Towards noon, the captive, at the expense of his
supposed uncle, made his farewell feast, and while
the inhabitants of the village were all assembled
around him, he harangued 'them as follows:-
"Brethren I am about to die. Divert yourselves
boldly around me: be convinced that I am a man,
and"that I neither fc~ar death, nor all the torments
you can inflict." He then began a song, in which
he was joined by the warriors who were present.
He was then presented with victuals, and when the
53

EXTRAORDINARY FORTITUDE. '~

feast was ended he was carried to the place of' exe-
cution, which is called the cabin of blood; (or heads
cut off,) and always belongs to the head of a village
About eight o'clock in the evening, all the savages of
the village being assembled, the young men who were
to be executioners of the tragedy, forming the first
row round th~ prisoner, were exhorted, by one of
their infernal elders, to behave well, meaning there-
by to put him to the most excruciating tortures.
The prisoner was then seated on a mat, where his
bands were tied, and then rising, he danced round
the cabin, singing his death song all the time, and
then replaced himself upon the mat.-Father Bre~.
beuf favoured the world with a copy of his death
song, which has been so much admired, as to have
made its way through Europe, having been trans-
lated into all the modern languages
The sun sets in night, and the stars shun the day,
But glory remains when their lights fade away;
Begin you tormentors, your threats are in vain,
For the son of Alknomook shall never complain.
Remember the arrows he shot from his bow;
Remember your chiefs by his hatchet laid low:
Why so slow'! do you wait till I shrink from my pain ~
No-the son of Alknomook shall never complain.
Remember the wood-~-where in ambush we lay,
And the scalps which we bore from your nation away:
Now the flame rises fast! von exult in my pain;
But the son of Alknomook shall never complain.
I go to the land where my father ha~ gone;
His ghost shall rejoice in the fame of his son:
Death comes like a friend,-he relieves me from pain;
And the son of Alknomook has scorned to complain.
One of the elders then took from him his robe,
which he said was destined for such a chief, (naming
him) of such a village, who was to cut off his head,
which, with an arm, was given to such another vil-
lage, to feast upon it. According to the French
59

K,
H~I
71
[Id ~
41 ~
441

4W
11
~ 'ri
411'
44
~
I ~

~       I
~ t

4' 4t'
H
j4
ii I

Il

1'
.4
4"

t.


f

MARVELLOUs REPOSITORY.

writers, the good father' Brebeuf, encouraged the
victim to suffer with the sentiments of Christianity,
which he did with most amazing firmness, without
dropping the least reproachable word.
He even talked of the affairs of his nation with as
much indifference, as if he had been at home with
his family. Eleven fires had been lighted to tore
ment him; and the elders said it was of consequence
that he should be alive at sun-rising, for which rea-
son his tortures were prolonged to that time, when
the barbarians, fearing he should expire without
iron, (another of their barbarous superstitions,) car-
ried him out of the village, and cut off one of his
feet, a hand, and his head, which were disposed of
as proposed, while his' body was thrown into a cal-.
dron.

A CURIOUS AFFINITY.

THE RE are now residing iidone house, in the parish
of Kirby, in Lincolnshire, four husbands an four
wives, a grandfather and grandmother, two fathers
and two mothers, four _sons and four daughters,
three brott ers and four sisters, two uncles and three
aunts, one grandson and one nephew; and all these
characters are comprised in ten persons.

THE VICTIM

OF

-ANToWNE.AUGUSTIN THOMAS DU. F-, eldest son
of the baron du F-, counsellor of the parliament of
Normandy, was born on the 15th of July, 1750.
His early years were embittered by the severity of
his father, who was of a disposition that preferred
the exercise of domestic tyranny to the blessings of
social happiness, and chose rather to be dreaded
than beloved. The endearing name of father con-
veyed no transpott to his heart, which,-being-wrapt
up in stern insensibility, was cold even to the Com
"The baron's austerity was not indeed confined to
his son, but extended to all his dependants. Form-
ed by nature for the support of the ancient govern-
ment of F'rance, he maintained his aristocratic rights
with unrelenting severity, ruled his feudal tenures
with a rod of iron, and considered the lower order
of people, as a set of beings whose existence was
tolerated merely for the use of the nobility. The
poor, he believed, were only born for suffering; and
he determined, as far as in him lay, not to deprive
them of their natural inheritance. ~On the whole,
if it were the great purpose of human life to be
hated, perhaps no- person ever attained that end
more completely than the baron du F-.
His son discovered early a taste for literature, and
received an education suitable to his rank and for
tune. As he advanced in life, the treatment he ex
F              .    61

$1
ii
~1
~

If
4j'
-~

60

lit
Ii
r ~

I ~
~ I

I

ij


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

perienced from his father became more and more in.
tolerable to him, as, far from inheriting the same
character, he possessed the most amiable disposition,
and the most feeling heart.
His mother, feeble alike in mind and body, sub-
mi~ted with the helplessness, and almost with the
thoughtlessness of a child, to the imperious will of
her husband. Their family was increased by two
more sons, and two daughters; but these children,
being several years younger than Mons. (lu F-,
were not of an age to afford him the consolations of
friendship; and the young man would have found
his situation intolerable, but for the sympathy of a
person, in whose society every evil was forgotten.
This person, his attachment to whom has tinc-
tured the colour of his lifer, was the youngest of eight
children, of a respectable family of Bourgeois at
Rouen. There is great reason to believe that her
father was descended froii the younger branch of a
noble~ family of the same name, and bearing the
same arms. But, unhappily, some links were \vant-
ing in this chain of ~onourable parentage. The
claim to nobility could not be traced t8 the entire
satisfaction of the baron; who, though he would
have dispensed with any moral qualities in favour of
rank, considered obscure birth as a radical stain,
which could not be wiped off by all the virtues under
heaven. He looked upon marriage as merely a
convention of interest, and children as a property,
of which it was reasonable for parents4o make the
most in their power.
The father of Mademoiselle Monique C-, was a
farmer, and died three months before the birth of
this child; who, with seven t4her children, was edu-
cated with the utmost care, by their mother, a wo-
man of sense and virtue, beloved by all to whom she
was known. It seemed as if this respectable woman
had, after the death of her husband, only supported
life for the sake of her infant family, from ~vhoxyi she
was snatched by death, the moment her maternal

PARENTAL TYRANNY.

cares became no longer necessary; her youngest
daughter, Monique, halTing, at this period, just at-
tained her twentieth year. Upon the death of her
mother, Monique went to live with an aunt, with
whom she remained only a very short time, being
invited by Madam dii F-, to whom she was well
known, to come and live with her as an humble
companion, to read to her when she was disposed to
listen, and to enliven the sullen grandeur of the
chateau, by her animating vivacity.
'rhis young person had cultivated her excellent
understanding by read ink, and her heart stood in no
need of cultivation. Mons. du F- found, in the
charms of her conversation, and in the sympathy of
her friendship, the most soothing consolation under
the rigour of parentaL tyranny. Living several
years beneath the same roof, he had constant op-
portunities of observing her disposition and charac-
ter; and the passion with which she at length in-
spired him, was founded on the lasting basis of es-
tee iii.
If it was ever pardonable to deviate from that law,
in the code of interest and etiquette, which forbids
the heart to listen to its best emotions, which, stifling
every generous sentiment of pure disinterested at-
tachment, sacrifices love at the shrine of avarice or
ambition, the virtues of Mon ique were such as might
excuse this deviation. Yes, the character, the con-
duct of this amiable person, have nobly justified her
lover's choice. How long might we have vainly
sought, in the highest classes of society, a mind so
elevated above the common mass! a mind that, en-
dowed with the most exquisite sensibility, has had
sufficient firmness to sustain, with a calm and equal
spirit, every transition of fortune; the most severe
to bear, the trial of high prosperity.
trials of adversity, and perhaps, what is still more
dii F~- had been taught, by his early mis-
fortunes, that domestic happiness was the first good
He had already found, by experience, the

7

v

[ii
I
A
1 1
III
P
Ii
14
I

%


~I h~;
~1ARVEVLQUS REPOSITORY.                                   PARENTAL TYRANNY.                           ij~iV
insufficiency of rank and fortune to confer enjoy.     able
ment; and he determined to seek n in the bosom of          people, without tears of tenderness and grati-
conjugal felicity. He determined to pass his life        Meanwhile the baron, having discovered the place
with her whose society now seemed essential, not       of his son's retreat, obtained, in the name of the king,
only to his happiness, but to his very existence.      permission fronvthe cantons of Berne and Friburg        V
At the solemn hour of midnight, the young couple     to arrest them at Lausanne, where they had retired
ivent to a church, where they were met by a priest,    for some months. The wife of Le Seigneur Baillif
whom Mons. da F- had made the confidant of his         secretly gave the young people notice of this dsign,
attachment, and by whom the marriage ceremony          and on the thirtieth of January, 1775, they had just
was performed.
Some time after, when the situation of his wife      time to make their escape, with only a few livres in
to his mother, she assured her son  mar.-         their pockets, and the clothes in which they were
obliged Mons. dii F.-. to acknowledge their            dressed.  Mons.    F-,   p   his     going to
riage                                 that. she        Switzerland, had lent thirty louis to a friend in die-
would willingly consent to receive his wife as her     tress. He now, in this moment of necessity, desired
daughter, but for the dread of his father's resent~ to be repaid, and was l)romnised the money within a
ment. Madame dii F-, with tears of regret, part..
ed with Monique, whom she placed under the pro-        month: meantime, he and his wife wandered from
town to town, without finding an~v l)lace where they
section of her brothers: they conducted her to Caen,    could remain in security. They had spent all their
4f             where she was soon after delivered of a son.           small stock of money, and were almost without
rfI~e baron dii F- was_ absent while these things    clothes: but at the expiration of the appointed time
were passing: he hadbeen suspected of being the au-    the thirty louis were paid, and with this fund Mons.
thor of a pamphlet written against the princes of      and Madame dii F- determined to take shelter in       ~ j 4~
the blood, and an order was issued to seize his pa-
pers, and conduct him to the Bastile; but he found     the only country which could atlbrd them a safe as-
sylum from persecution, and immediately set off for
means to escape into Holland, where he remained        England                         ;, and part of
nearly two y~ars. Having made his peace with the       mUa~~i' travelling through Germani
to avoid passing tlmro~gh France.
nuinistry, he prepared to come home; but before he
returned, Mons. dii F- received intelligence that        They embarked at Rotterd~tm, and after a long
and gloomy passage, arrived late at night at London.
4              his father, irritated almost to madness by the informa  A young man, who was their fellow passenger, had
tion of his marriage, was making application for a let.  the charity to procure them a lodging in a ~a rret
tre de catcher, in order to confine his dauho~ter-in-law
for the rest of her life; and had also obtained power  a~nd directed them where to i~urehase a few ready-.
made clothes. When they had remained in this
to have his son seized and imprisoned. Upon this       lodgingthe time necessary for becoming parishioners,
Mons. dii F-- and his wife fled with precipitation
to Geneva, leaving their infant at nurse near Caen.    their banns were 1)ublished in the church of St. Anne,
The Genevois seemed to think, that the unfortunate     Westminster, where they were married hy the cu-
situation of these strangers gave them a claim to all  rate of the parish. They went to the chapel of the
the offices of friendship.. After an interval of many  French ambassador, and were again married by his
s, I have never heard Mons. or Madame dii          chaplain; after which Mons. dii F- told me,* " Les          4$


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

deux epoux viurent faire maigre chair a leur petite
chambre."
Mons. du F- endeavored to obtain a situation
at a school, to teach the French language; byd be-
fore such a situation could be found, his wi tie was
delivered of a girL Not having sufficient money to
hire a nurse, he attended her himself. At this pe-
riod they endured all the horrors of absolute want.
Unknown and unpitied, without help or support, in
a foreign country, and in the depth of a severe win-
ter, they almost perished with cold and hunger
The unhappy mother lay stretched upon the same
bed with her new-born infant, who in vain implored
her succour, want of food having dried up that
source of nourishment. The woman, at whose
house they lodged, and whom they had for some
weeks been unable to pay, after many threateningsat
length told them that they must depart the next morn-
ing. Madame du F- was at that time scarcely able
to walk acrQss her chamber, and the ground was
covered with~ snow. They had already exhausted
every resource; they had sold their watches, their
clothes, to satisfy the cravings of hunger;' every
mode of relief was fled, every avenue of hope was
closed, and they determined to go with their infant
to the suburbs of the town, and there seated on a
stone, wait with patience for the deliverance of
death. With what anguish did this unfortunate
couple prepare to leave their last miserable retreat!
With how many bitter tears did th~y bathe That
~wretched infant, whom they could no longer save
from perishing!
Oh! my dearly ever beloved friends! when I recol-
led that I am not at this moment indulging the
melancholy cast of my own disposition, by J)alfltiflg
imaginary distress; when I recollect, not only that
these were real sufferings, but that they were sus~
tamed by you! my mind is overwhelmed with its
own sensations. The paper is blotted by my tears,
aiid I can hold the ien no longer.
66

PARENTAL TYRANNY.

Mons. and Madame du F- were relieved from
Ibis extremity of distress, at a moment so critical,
and by means so unexpected, that it seemed the
hand of Heaven visibly interposing in behalf of op-
pressed virtue. Early in the morning of that fatal
day,~ when they were to leave their last sad shelter,
Mons. du F- ivent out, arid, in the utmost distrac-
tion of mind, wandered through some of the streets
in the neighbourhood. He was, stopped by a gen~
tkman, whom he had known at Geneva, and wh~
told him that he was then in1search of his lodging,
having a letter to deliver to him from a Genevois
clergyman. Mons. du F- opened the letter, in
which he was informed by his friend, that, fearing
he friight be involved in difficulties, he had trans-
mitte(I ten guineas to a banker in town, and entreat-
ed Mons. da F-- would accept that small relief,
which was all he could afford, as a testimony of
friendship. Mons. du F- flew to the banker's, re-
ceived the money as the gift of Heaven, and then,
hastening to his wife and child, bade them live a
little longer.
A short time after he obtained a' situation as
French usher at a school; and Madame du F-,
when she had a little recovered her strength, put
out her infant to nurse, and procured the place of
Frecch teacher at a boarding school. They were
now enabled to support their child, and to repay the
generous assistance of their kind friend at Geneva.
At this l)eriod they heard of the death of their son,
whom they had left at Caen.
Mon~, and Madame du F- passed two years in
this situation, when they were again plunged into
the deepest (listI'e55. A French jeweler was corn-
flhiSSionC(l by the baron du F- to gd to his son, and
~ to him conditions of reconciliation. rphis
man told Mons. du F- that his father was just re-
covered from a severe and dangerous illness, and
that his eldest (laughter had lately died. These
things, he said, had led him to reflect, with some
67

1,~
"4 I~'~
i I
IS'I

Li
If

7

"8
p ~ '4
II ~1' I

4
'4

1~
II
'I'
44 ~
'4li
it

I
44

at

n


A
MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                    PARENTAL TYRANNY.
~
pain, on the severity he had exercised towards his     of' mind, it requires only to be a parent to feel.-"
son; that the feelings of a parent were awakened in    an affection, which, not confined to the human
his bosom; and that if Mons.d a F- wouJd throw him.-   heart, softens the ferociousness of the tyger, and        If
self' at his father's feet, and ask forgiveness, he    speaks with a voice that is heard amidst the holdings
would not fail to obtain it, and would be allowed a    of the desert.
pension, on which he might live with his wife in         Mons. dii F-, after the repeated promises of his       1~
England   In, ~onfgrnation of these assurances, this   father, almost considered that suspicion, which still
man produc~d~seve~al letters which he had received     hung upon his mind, as a crime. But, lest it might         1I~~K
i If1 4f ~
from~the baron to that effect; who, as a farther proof  be possible that this agent~was commissioned to de.~    V
of hissincerity, had given this agent seven hundred    ceive him, he endeavoured to melt him into coin-
pounds, to put into the hands of Mons. du F- for       passion for his situation. He went to the village,
the support of his wife and child during his absence.  where his child was* at nurse, and, bringing her
The agent told him, that he had not been able to       six miles in his arms, presented her to this man,
bring the money to England, but would irninedi-        telling him that the fate of that poor infant rested        vk~ ~+
ately give him three drafts upon a merchant of re-     upon his i~itegrity. The man took the inpocent           1
mutation in London, with whom he had connections       creature in his arms, kissed her, and then, return-      I
in business; the first draft payable in three months,  ing her to her father, renewed all his former assur-     I
the second in six, and the third in nine.              ances. Mons. dii F-listened and believed. Alas'
K'               Mons. dii F~- long deliberated upon these pro-       how difficult is it for a good heart to suspect human
po~als. He knew too well the vindictive spirit of      nature of crimes which makes one blush for the
nis father, not to feel some dread of putting himself  species l How hard is it for a mind, glowing with        I
b                             benevolence, to believe that the bosom
int9 his power.. But his a~ent continued to give       harbours the malignity of a demon!  of another
him the most solemn assurances of safety; and Mons.
da F- thought it was not improbable that his             Mons. dii F- now fixed the time for his depar-        mA
sister's death might have softened the mind of his     ture with his father's agent, who was to accompany
father. He reflected that his marriage had disap-      him to Normandy. Madame dii F- saw the pre~              ~
pointed those ambitious hopes of a great alliance,     operations for his journey with anguish which she         $
which his father had fondly indulged, and to whom      could ill conceal. But she felt that the delicacy of
he owed, at least, the reparation of hastening to in-  her situation forbade her interference. It was she
poring his forgiveness when he was willing to be-     who had made him an alien from his family, and an
stow it. VVhat also weighed strongly .pn ~his mind.    exile from his country. It was for her, that, ye-       '~'~i
was the consideration, that the sum which his father   flouncing rank, fortune, friends, and connections,     I
~ll that is esteemed most valuable in life, he had         ~   I~
had ordered to be (lept~sited for the use of his wife,  suffered the last extremity of want, and now sub-           1 1
would, in case any sinister accident should befal
him, afford a small provision for her and his infant.  [flitted to a state of drudgery and dependence.
The result of these deliberations was, that Mons.   Would he not have a right to reproach her weak
dii F- determined, (and who can much blame his         ness, if' she attempted to oppose his reconciliation
want of prudence?) to confide&amp; in a father! to          with his father, and exerted that influence which          II~
trust in that instinctive affection, which, far from   ~he possessed over his mind, in order to detain him         4 ~K
110


MARVBLLOUS REPOSITORY.

tions? she was, therefore, sensible that the duty
the gratitude she owed her husband, now required)
on her part, the absolute sacrifice of her own feel~.
ings: she suffered without complaint, and endea~
poured to resign herself to the will of Heaven.
The day before his departure Mons. dii F- went
to take leave 'of his little girl. At this moment a
dark and melancholy presage seemed to agitate his
mind. lie pressed the child for a long while to his
bosom, and bathed it with his tears. The nurse
eagerly inquired what was the rnatter3 and assured
him that the child was perfectly well. Mons. dii
F~- had no power to reply; he continued clasping
his infant in his arms, and at length, tearing himself
from her in silence, he rushed out of the house.
When the morning of his departure came, Ma-
dame dii F-, addressing herself to his fellow-tra-
veller, said to him, with a voice of supplication, " I
entrust you, sir, with my husband, with the father
of my poor infant, our sole protector and support!
have compassion on the widow and the orphan!"
The man, casting upon her a gloomy look, gave her
a cold answer, which made her soul shrink within
her. When Mons. du F- got into the Brightelm-
stone stage, he was unable to bid her farewell; but
when the carriage drove off, he put his head out of
the window, and continued looking after her; while
~he fixed her eyes on him, and might have repeated,
with Imogen.
"I would have broke mine eye-strings;
Cracked them, but to look upon him; till the diminution
Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle;
Nay, followed him, till he had melted from
The smallness of a gnat to air; and then-
Then turned mine eyes and wept!"
When the carriage was out of sight, she summon
ed all her strength, and walked with trembling steps
to the school where she lived as a teacher. With
much difficulty she reached the door; but her limbs
'h)

PARENTAL TYRANNY.

could support her no longer, and she fell down
senseless at the threshold. She was carried into the
house, and restored to 'life and the sensations of
misery.
Mons. dii F- arrived at his father's chateau, in
Normandy, in June, 1775, and was received by
Mons. le baron, and all his family, with the most
affectionate cordiality. In much exultation of mind
he dispatched a letter to Madame dii F-, contain-
ing this agreeable intelligence; but it was far from
producing in her mind the effect he desired. A
deep melancholy had seized her thoughts, and her
foreboding heart ref to sympathise in his joy.
Short, indeed, was its duration. He had not been
many days at the chateau, when he perceived, with
surprise and consternation, that his steps were con-
tinually watched by two servants, armed with
fuzees.
His father now showed him an arret, which, on
the fourth of June, 1776, he had obtained from the
parliament of Rouen, against his marriage. The
baron then ordered his son to accompany him to his
house at Rou~n, whither they went, attended by
several servants. That evening, when the atte
dants withdrew after supper, the baron, entirely
throwing off the mask of civility and kindness
which he ha.d worn in such opposition to his nature,
reproached his son, in terms of the utmost bitter-
ness, for his past conduct, inveighed against his
marriage; and having exhausted every expression
of rage and resentment, at length suffered him to
retire to his own apartment.
There the unhappy Mons. du F-, absorbed in
the most gloomy reflections, lamented in vain that
fatal credulity which had led him to put himself into
the power of his implacable father. At the hour of
midnight his meditations were interrupted by the
sound of feet approaching his chamber; and in a
few moments the door was thrown open, and his
father, attended by a servant armed, and two
71

Ji

A
I
4''
411
I        l~
411
I I
I
I I

'I
'14
Au
Al   4
AA  ~

V
I'

f

'V

4
d --
5


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

Cavaliers de Marechaussee,* entered the room.
Resistance and supplications were alike unavailing.
Mons. du F-'s papers were seized; a few louis
'l'ors, which constituted all the money he possessed,
were taken from him; and he was conducted, in the
dead of the night, .Tulythe 7th, 1778, to St. You, a
convent used as a place of confinement, near Ronen,
where he was thrown into a dungeon.
A week after his father entered the dungeon.
You will perhaps conclude, that his hard heart felt
at length, the relentings of a parent. You will at
least suppose that his imagination being haunted,
and his conscience tormented with the image of a
son stretched on the floor of this subterraneous cell,
he could support the idea no longer, and had hasten-
ed to give repose to his own mind, by releasing his
captive. Far different were the motives of his visit.
He considered that such was his son's attachment
to his wife, that so long as he believed he had left
her in possession of seven hundred pounds, he would
find comfort from that consideration even in the
depth of his dungeon. His father, therefore, hast~
ened to remove an error from the mind of his son,
which left the measure of his woes unfilled. Nor
(lid he choose to yield to another the office of inflict-
ing a pang sharper than captivity; but himself in-
formed his son, that the merchant, who was to pay
the seven hundred pounds to his wife, was declared
a bankrupt.
A short time after, the baron du F-. commenced
a suit at law, against that agent of iniquity, whom
he had employed to deceive his son, and who, prac
tising a refinement of treachery, of which the baron
was not aware, had kept the seven hundred pounds,
with which he was entrusted, and given drafts upon
a merchant whom he knew would fair before the
time of. payment. Not being able to prosecute the
~air without a power of attorney from his son, the
'~' Officers of Justice~

PARENTAL TYRANNY.

baron applied to him for Ibis ~ But Mon%
dii F-, being firmly rcsolve(l not to deprive hi~
wife of the chance of recovering the money for her-
self and child, could, by no entreaties or menaces
be led to comply. In vain his father, who had con~
rented to allow him a few books, ordered him to be
deprived of that resource, and that his confinement
should be rendered still more rigorous; he continued
n fle~ible.
Mons. du F-. remained in his prison, without
meeting with the smallest mark of sympathy fror~
any ore of his family, though his second brother,
Mons. de B-, was now eighteen years of age; an
age at which the sordid considerations of interest,
how much soever they may effect our conduct at a
more advanced period of life, can seldom stifle those
warm and generous feelings which seem to belong
to youth. It might have been expected that this
young man would have abhorred the prospect ~i
possessing a fortune which was the just inheritance
of his brother, and which could only be obtained by
detaining that brother in perpetual captivity. Even
admitting that his inexorable father had prohibited
his visiting the l)rison of his brother, his heart
should hare told him, that disobedience in this in-
stance, would have 1)een virtue; or was it not
sufficient to remain a passive spectator of injustice,
without becoming, as he afterwards did, the agent
of cruelty inflicted on a brother?
Where are the wor(ls that can convey an ade-~
quate idea of the sufferings of Madame du F-, (lur..
ing this period? Three weeks after her husband's
departure~ from England, she heard the general re~
port of The town of Rouen, that the baron dii F.-..
had obtained a lettre de cachet against his son, and
had thrown him into l)rison. This was all she
heard of her husband for two years. Ignorant of
the I)lace of his confinement, uncertain if he still
lived, perhaps her miseries were even more poig
nant than his. In the dismal solitude of a prison,
G                   73

1'
I $
.~1

4
~
~    41$
V ~
t~I
{$~}
~ ~I2
IA,
~ 1Y~

I

V
b $1
I

9


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
nis pains were alleviated by the soothing reflective
that he suffered for her he loved; while that very
idea was to ~her the most bitter aggravation of dis-
tress. Her days passed in anguish 'which can only
be conceived where it has been felt, and her nights
were disturbed by the gloomy wanderings of fancy.
Sometimes she saw him in her dreams, chained to
the floor of'his dungeon, his bosom bathed in blood,
and his countenance disfigured by death. Some-
times she saw him hastcn~ng towards her, when, at
the moment that he was going to embrace her, they
were fiercely torn asunder. Madame du F- was
naturally of a delicate constitution, and grief of
mind reduced her to such a deplorable state of
weakness, that it was with infinite difficulty she
performed the duties of her situation. For herself,
she would have welcomed death with thankfulness;
but she considered that her child now depended en-
tirely ~n her labours for support, and this was a mo-
tive sufficiently powerful to prompt her to the care-
ful preservation of her own life, though it had long
become a burden. The child was three years old
when her father left England; recollected him per-
fectly; and, whenever her mother went to visit her,
used to call with eagerness for her papa. The en-
quiry in the voice of her child, of, "When shall I
see my dear, 4ear papa?" was heard by this un
happy mother with a degree of agony which it were
vain indeed to describe.
Mons. du F- was repeatedly offered his liberty
but upon conditions which he abhorred. He was
required forever to renounce his wife; who, while
she remained with her child in a distant country,
was to receive from his father a small pension, as an
equivalent for the pangs of disappointed affection,
of disgrace and dishonour. With the indignation
of offended virtue, he spurned at these insulting pro-
'ositions, and endeavoured to prepare his mind for
the cndurancr' of perpetual captivity.
Nor can imagination form an idea of a scene more
74

~Al
A
Ii I
J
'ii'
it
'I

PARENTAL TYRANNY.
dreadful than his prison, where he perceived with
horror, that the greatest number of those prisoners
who had been many years in confinement, had an
appearance of frenzy in their looks, which showed
that reason had been too weak for the long struggle
with calamity, and h~d at last yielded to despair.
In a cell adjoining Mons. du F-'s, was an old man
who had been confined nearly forty years. his
grey beard hung down to his waist, and during the
(lay, he was chained by his neck to the wall. He
was never allowed to leave his cell, and never spoke;
but Mons. du F-, used to hear the rattling of his
chains.
The prisoners, a few excepted, were generally
brought from their cells at the ho~ir of noon, and
dined together. But this gloomy repast was served
in uninterrupted silence. They were not suffered
to utter one word, and the penalty of transgressing
this rule, was a rigorous confinement of several
weeks. As soon as this comfortless meal was finish-
ed,.the l)risoners were instantly obliged to return
to their dungeons, in which they were locked up till
the same hour the following day. Mons. do F-,
in his damp and melancholy cell, passed two win-.
ters without fire, and suffered so severely from cold,
that he was obliged to wrap himself up in the few
clothes which covered his bed. Nor was he allow-
ed any light, exeel)t that which, during the short
day, beamed through the small grated window in
the ceiling of his dungeon.
Is it not difficult to believe that these sufferings
*    were inflicted by a father?  A father! that name
which 1 cannot trace without emotion; which con-
veys all the ideas of protection, of security, of ten-
(lerness; that dear relation, to which children, in
general owe their prosperity, their ei~ijoyments, and
even their virtues! Alas! the unhappy Mons. du
IA ., owed nothing to his father but that life, which,
from its earliest period, his cruelty had embittered
75

t'

Ii

it
it
I
4K.;

44
F, I
I ~
*f  ~l

H
'I

s
e


MARVELLOUS REPosI'rORY.

and which he now condemned to languish in mise-
ries that death only could heal.
A young gentleman, who was confined in a cell
on one side of Mons. du F-~'s, contrived to make a
small hole through the wall; and these companions in
misfortune, by placing themselves close to the hole,
could converse together in whispers. But the
monks were not long in disco' ering this, and effect-
~ially deprived them of so great an indulgence, by
removing them to distant cells. These unrelenting
monks, who performed with such fidelity their
office of tormenting their fellow creatures, who
never relaxed in one article of persecution, and ad
he red with scrupulous rigour to the code of cruelty,
were called, " Les Freres de la saint Charite."4
One among them deserved the appellation. This
good old monk used to visit the prisoners by stealth,
and endeavour to administer comfort to their afflic-
tion. Often he repeated to Mons. (lu F-, "Mon
cher frere console vous; mettez i'otre confiance
en Dieu, vos maux seront finis!"t
Mons. (lu F- remained two years in prison,
without receiving any intelligence of his wife, on
whose account he suffered the most distracting anx-
iety, He had every reason to apprehend that her
frame, which had already been much enfeebled by
her misfortunes, would sink beneath this additional
load of misery, and that she would perhaps be ren-
dered unable to procure that little pittance, which
might preserve herself and her. child from want.
At length one of his fellow prisoners, who was
ing to regain his liberty, took charge of a letter to
Madame du F-, and flattered him with the hope of
finding some means of transmitting to him an an-
swer.
The letter paints so naturally the situation of his
mind, that I have translated some extracts from it.
~ The Brothers of' the holy Charity.
1' My dear brother be comforted, place your confidence in
God your afflictions will have an end.
76

PARENTAL TYRANNY.

"My thoughts (he says) are unceasingly occupy~
ed about you, and my (lear little girl. I am for ever
recalling the blessed moments when I had the hap...
piness of being near you, and at that recollection,
*my tears refuse to be controlled. How could I
sent to separate myself' from what was most dear to
me inAhe world? No motive less powerful than
that of seeking your welfare , and that bf my child,
could have determined me-and, alas, I have not
accomplished this end. I know too well that you
have never received that sum of money, which I
thought I had secured for you, and for which I risked
the first blessing of life. W"hat fills my mind with
the greatest horror, in the solitude of my prison, is
the fear that you are suffering difficulties in a
foreign country. Here I remain ignorant of your
fate, and can only offer to heaven the most ardent
vows for your welfare.
"What joy woul(l a letter from you give me; but
1 (lare not flatter myself with the hope of such sweet
consolation. All I can assure myself of is, that
though separated, perhaps for ever, our souls are
united by the most tender friendship and attachment.
Perhaps I may not find it possible to Write to you
again for a long while: but be assured, that no me~
naces, no sufferings, no dungeons ,shall ever shake
my fidelity to you; and that I shall love you to the
last hour of my existence. I find a consolation iii
the reflection that it is for you I suffer. If ~
dence ever permits as to meet agait~, that moment
will efface the remembrance of all my calamities.
Live, my dearest wife, in that hope. I conjure you
j~reserve your life for my sal~e, and for the sake of
our dear little girl! embrace her tenderly for me,
and desire her also to embrace you for her poor
papa. 1 need not recommend my child to the care
of so tender a mother; but I conjure you to inspire
her mind with the deepest sense of religion If she
is born to inherit the misfortunes of her father, this
will be her best source of consolation.
77

4 ~
ft
iii'
I
44
I     It
4

1.
I
[
I

y j
N
i~J
44
#1    1

I:

3
a
i
i

1 i
e


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                             PARENTAL TYRANNY.

" Whatever offers may be made you by my father,
I exhort you, never have the weakness to is en to
them, but preserve your rights and those of' my dear
little girl, which perhaps~iay one day l)e of some
value, if you are still at Mrs. D 's boarding
school, tell her that I recommend my wife and child
to her compassion. But what am Isaying? I am
ignorant if you ~re still with her, ignorant whether
the dearest ol.ect of my affection still lives! but I
trust that providence has 1)reserve(1 you. Adieu!
may God Almighty 1~less you and my child: I never
cease imploring him to have pity on the widow and
the orphan in a lanl of strau~ers."
You, my dear friend, ~ ho have felt the tender at-
tachments of love arid friendship, and the painful
anxieties which absence occasions, even amidst
scenes of variety and pleasure; who understand the
value at which tidings from those we love is coni-.
r)uted in the arithmetic of the heart who have
heard with almost uncontrollable emotion, the post-
at the (lOO[~ have
man's rap             ,      trembling seen the
well known hand which excited sensations that al-
nio~t deprived you of power to break the seal which
seemed the talisman of happiness; you can *judge of
the feelings of Mons. du F-, when he received, by
means of the same friend who had conveyed his let-
ter, an answer from his wife. But the person who
brought the letter to his (lungeon, dreading the risk
of a discovery, inslSte(l that after having read it, he
should return it to him immediately. Mons. dii
F- pressed th~ letter to his heart, bathed it with
his tears, and implored the indulgence of keeping it
at least till the next morning. tie was allowed to
do so, and read it till every word was imprinted on
his memory; an.d after enjoying the sad luxury, of
holding it that night on his bo~om, was forced, the
next morning, to relinquish his ~
On the 10th of October, 1730, th~ baron du F-~
came to the convent, and ordered the monks to bxing
his son from his di~'ageon to the parlor, and leave
73

them together. With the utmost reluctance Mons.
dii F'- obeyed this summons, having long lost all
hope of softening the obdurate heart of his father.
When the monks withdrew, the baron b~gan upbraid-
ing him, in the most bitter terms, for his obstinate
resistance to his will, which he informed him, had
availed nothing, as he had gained his suit at law, and
recovere(l the seven hundred 1)Ounds. Mous. dii F-
replied, that the pain he felt from this intelligence
would have l)CCh1 far more acute, had his wife been
deprived, with his concurrence, of the money which
l)romised for her subsistence
~vas                              , an(l on the
reliance of which promise he had, been tempted to
leave England. 11 is father then enquirer if he
~til l)ersiste(l in his adherence to th~ disgraceful con-
tiexion he had formed; to which his son answered,
Ihat not merely were his affections interested, but
that his honour oI)lige(1 him to maintain with invio-
lable fidelity, a solemn and sacred engagement. The
rage of the 1)aron at these words became unbounded.
lie stam1)ed the ground with his feet; he. aimed a
stroke at his son, who taking advantage of this mo-
nient of frenzy, determined to attempt his escape,
and rushing out of the apartment, and avoiding that
side of the convent which the monks ir~habited, he
endeavored to find his way to the garden, but missed
the passage which led to it. He then flew UI) a stair
case, from which he heard his father calling for assist-
ance. Finding that all the (loors which he passed
were shut, he continued ascending till he reached the
toj) of the building, where meeting with no other
opening than a hole made in the sloping roof to jet in
light to a garret, he climbed up with much difficulty,
and then putting his feet through the Ii ole, and let-
ting his body out by degrees, he supported himself for
a moment on the roof, and deliberated on what he was
about to do. But his mind was at this crisis, wrought
Ill) to a pitch of desperation, which mocked the sug-
gestions of fear. He quitted his hold, and flinging
himself from a height of nearly fifty feet, became in-
b
79

A
4

'/

F I
I,
Fl
It
F         Fl:
I
~ I
I          I
I ~ 12 Ill
I               F'
114


3
. 4
1

(I
4'"
4"

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
sensible before he' reached the ground, where he lay
weltering in his blood, and to all appearance dead.
He had fallen on the high road leading from Ronen
to Caen. Some people who were passing gathered
round him, and one person having washed the blood
from his face, instantly recognized his features, and
exclaimed to the astonished crowdthat he was the el-
dest son of the bar~n du F-. Upon examining his
body, it was found that he had broken his arm, his
thigh, his ancle bone, and his heel, besides having
received many violent bruises. He still remained in
a state of insensibility; and while these charitable
strangers were using their efforts to restore him to
life, the monks hastened from their convent, snatch-
ed their victim from those good Samaritans, who
would have poured oil and wine into his wounds,
and carried him to the infirmary of the convent,
where he remained some weeks before he recovered
his senses; after which he lay stretched upon a bed
for three months, suffering agonies of pain.
His father, who had been the jailor, and almost
the murderer df his son, heard of these sufferings
without remorse, nor did he ever see him more.
But though he was sufficiently obdurate to bear un-
moved the calamities he had inflicted on his.child,
though he could check the upbraidings of his own
conscience, he could not silence the voice of public
indignation. The report that Mons. du F- had
been found lying on the road, bathed in blood, and
had in that 'condition been dragged to the prison of
St. Yon, was soon spread through the town of Rou-
en. Every one syrnpathised in the fate of this un-
fortunate young man, and execrated the tyranny of
his unrelenting, father.
'rhe universal clamour reached the ear of his
brother, Mons (IC B-, who now, for the first time,
out of respect to the J)ublic opinion, took a measure
which his heart had never dictated during the long
captivity of his brother, that of visiting him in his
prison. Mons. de B-'s design in these visits was
80

PARENTAL TYRANNY,
merely to appease the public; for small indeed was
the consolation they afforded to his brother, lie
(lid not come to bathe with his tears the bed where
that un
happy young man lay stretched in pain and
anguish; to lament the severity of his father- to of.
fer him all the consolation of fraternal tenderness:
-He came to warn him against indulging a hope
of ever regaining his liberty-he came to l)ierce his
soul with " hard unkindness, altere(l eye, which
x~ocks the tear it forced to flow."
I will not attempt to describe the wretchedness of
Madame du F-, when she heard the report of her
husband's situation. Your heart will conceive what
she suffered far better than I can relate it. rl~hree
months after his fall, Mons. (lu F- contrived,
through the assistance of the charitable old monk, to
send her a few lines, written with his left hand.
"My fall," he says, "has made my captivity
known, and has led the whole town of Rouen to
take an interest in my misfortunes. Perhaps I
shall have reason to bless the accident, which may
possibly prove the means of procuring me my liberty,
and uniting me again to you !--In the mean time, I
trust that providence will watch with paternal
goodness over the two objects of my most tender
affection. Do not, my dearest wife, suffer the
thoughts of my situation to prey too much upon your
mind. My arm is almost well; my thigh and foot
are not quite cured; hut I am getting better.
"I could not suppress my tears on reading that
part of your letter, wherein you tell me that my
dear little girl often asks for l)apa.-Kiss .ier for me
a thousand times, and tell her that her papa is al-
ways thinking of her and her dear mama. I am
well convinced that you will give her the best edu-
cation your little pittance can atibed. But above
all, I beseech you, inspire her young mind with sen-
timents of
is the ~~0~piety; teach her to love her Creator: that
essential of all lessons. Adieu! dearest
and most beloved of women !-Js there a perio(l in
A6        SI

I
i 4

p4
"4 4]
41
4''
I


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

82

According to rules.

PARENTAL TYRANNY

reserve when we shall meet again? Oh, how amply
will that moment compensate for all our or.
tunes."
At length the parliament of Rouen began to inter..
est itself in the cause of Mons. dii F-. The cii'-
cumstances of his confinement were mentioned in
that assembly, and the president sent his secretary
to Mons. dii F-'s prisonwho had now quitted his
bed, and was able to walk with the assistance of
crutches. By the advice of the president, Mons.
du F- addressed some letters to the parliament, re-
presenting his situation in the most pathetic terms,
and imploringtheirinterference in his behalf.
It is here necessary to mention, that Mons. de Bel
B-, Procureur General de Rouen, being intimately
connected with the baron du F-'s family, had ~Ten-
tured to demonstrate his friendship for the ba~
ron, by confining his son nearly three years on his
own authority, and without any lettre de cachet.
And though Muns. de Bel B- well knew, that every
species of oppression was connived at, under the
shelter of lettres de cachet, he was sensible that it
was only beneath their auspices that the exercise of
tyranny was p&amp;mitted; and in this particular irk-
stance, not having been cruel, felons les regles,~ he
apprehended that if ever Mons. dii F- regained his
liberty, he might be made responsible for his con-
duct. He therefore exerted all his influence, and
with too much success, to 'frustrate the benevolent
intention of the president of the parliament, respect-
ng Mons. du F-. His letters were indeed read in
that assembly, and ordered to be registered, where
they still remain a record of the pusillanimity of
those men who suffered the authority of Mons. de
Bel B-~- to overcome the voice of humanity; who ac-
knowledged the atrocity of the baron dii F-'s con-
duct, and yet were deaf to the supplications of hiB

r

~4 I
II
n~' I

:1

I I
II
ii
1'
'a
l~t
in
I
'I"
I               III

son, while from the depth of his dungeon, he called
upon them for protection and redress.
May the fate of the captive, in the land of France;
no more hang suspended on the frail thread of pity,
or the caprice of individuals! May justice erect, on
eternal foundations, her protecting sanctuary for
the oppressed, and may humanity and mercy be the
graceful decorations of her temple.
The baron (in F-, perceived that, notwithstand~
ing his machinations had prevented the parliament
of l{ouen from taking any effectual measures to-.
wards liberating his son, it would be impossible to*
silence the murmurs of the public, while he remain
ed confined at St. Yon. He determined, therefQ~e,
to remove him to some distant prison, where ~is
name and family were unknown; and where, beyond
the jurisdiction of the parliament of Ronen, his
groans might rise, unpitied and unrevenged. But
the baron, not daring, amidst the general clamour,
to remove his son by force, endeavored to draw him
artfully into the snare he had prepared.
Mons. de B- was sent to his brother's prison,
where he represented to him, that though he must
not indulge the least hope of ever regaining his
liberty, yet if he would write a letter to Mons. M
keeper of the seals, desiring to be removed to some
other place, his confinement would be made far less
rigorous. Mons. dii F- was now in a state of des-
l)eration, that rendered him almost careless ~of his
fate, lie perceived that the parliament had re-
flounced his cause. He saw no possibility of escape
from St. Yon, and flattered himself that in a place
where he was less closely confined, it might perhaps
be practicable; and therefore he consented to write
the letter required, which Mons. de B- conveyed
ih triumph to his father. rl;here were, however,
some expressions in the letter, which the baron dis-
approved, on which account he returned it, desiring
that those expressions might be changed. But duN
ing the interval of his brother's absence, Mons dv

I      '1p


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

F- had reflected on the rash imprudence of con.
fading in the promises of those, by whom he had been
so cruelly deceived. No sooner, therefore, did
Moos. de B--- put the letter again into his hands,
than he tore it in pieces, and peremptorily refused
to write another.
Soon after this, Mons. de B--, the ambassador of
the tyrant, again returned to his brother, with fresh
credentials, and declared to him, that if he would
write to the keeper of the seals, desiring to be re
moved from St. Yon, he should in one fortnight
after his removal be restored to liberty. Upon
Mons. du F-'s asserting that he could no longer
confide in the promises made him by his family, his
brother, in a formal written engagement, to which
he signed his name, gave him the most solemn assur-
ance, that his promise should be fulfilled with fide-
lity. Mons. du F-. desired a few days for delibe-
ration, and during that interval, found means of
consulting a magistrate of Rouen, who was his
friend, and who advised him to comply with the
terms that were offered, after having caused several
copies of the written engagement to be taken, and
certified by such of the prisoners at St. Iron as were
likely to regain their freedom; a precaution neces-
sary lest his own should be torn from his hands.
Thus, hating neither trusted to the affection, the
mercy, or the remorse of those, within whose bosom
such sentiments were extinguished; having bargain-
ed by a written agreement, with a father and a
brother, fbr his release from the horrors of perpetual
cal)tivity, Mons. du F- wrote the letter required.
Soon after, an order Was sent from Versailles, for
his release from the prison of St. Yon, and with a
l9ttre de cachet, whereby he was exile(l to Beauvais,
with a command not to leave that town, Mons. de
B-.', acting as a Cavalier de Ia Marechaussee,~
conducted his brother to this place of exile, and

An Officer of Justice.

PAuENTAL TYRANNY.

~,v
1'
4
lJ
'1
4

there left him. A short time after, Moos. du F.-~
received an intimation fron~ thai magistrate of Rou-
en, who had interested himself in his misfortunes,
that his father was on the point of obtaining another
lettre de cachet, to remove him from Beauvais to
some prison in the south of France, where he might
never more be heard of. rJ7his gentleman added,
that Mons. da F- had not one moment to lose, and
advised him immediately to attempt his escape.
Early on the morning after he received this intel~
ligence, Mons. du F-, who had the liberty to walk
about ~he town, fled from Beauvais. rrhe person
Who brought him the letter from the magistrate,
waited for him at a little distance from the town,
and accompanied him on his journey. When they
reached Lisle in Flanders, not having a passport,
they were obliged to wait from eleven o'clock at
night, till ten the next morning, before they could
obtain permission from the governor to proceed on
their journey. Moos. da F- concluded that he
was pursued, and suffered the most dreadful appre-
hensions of being overtaken. His companion, with
some address, at length obtained a passport, and at-
tended him as far as Ostend. The wind proving
contrary, he was detained two days in a state of the
most distracting inquietude, and concealed himself
on board the vessel in. whicI~ he had taken his pas-
sage for England. At length the wind became fa-
vourable, the vessel sailed, and arrived late at night
at Margate. Mons. du F-, when he r~e.a~ed the
English shore, knelt down, and in a transporOof joy,
kissed the earth of that dear country, which had
twice proved his asylum.
He then enquired when the stage coach set off
for London, and was told that it went at so early an
hour the next morning, that he could not go till the
day after, as he must wait till his portmantean was
examined by the custom-house officers, who were
now in bed. The (lelay of a few hours, in seeing
his wife and child, after such an absence, after such
H

j~F
ill


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                               PARENTAL TYRANNY.

sufferings was not to be endured. In a violent agi-
tation of mind, he snatched up his portmanteau, and
was going to fling it into the sea, when he was pre-
vented by the people near him, who said that if he
would pay the fees, his portmanteau should be sent
after him. He eager] y complied with their de-
mands, and set out for London. As he drew near,
his anxiety, his impatience, his emotion increased.
His present situation appeared to him like one of
those delicious dreams, which sometimes visited the
darkness of his dungeon, and for a while restored
him, in imagination, to those he loved. Scarcely
could he persuade himself that he was beyond the
reach of oppression, that he was in a land of free-
dom; that he was hastening towards his wife and
child. When he entered London, his sensations be-
came almost too strong to bear. He was in the
very same place his wife and child inhabited-but
were they still alive? were they in health? had
Heaven indeed reserved for him the transport of
holding them once more to his bosom, of mixing his
tears with theirs? When heknocked at the door
of the house, where he expected to hear of Madame
du F-, he had scarcely power to articulate his en-
quiries after her and his child. He was told that
they were in health, butihat Madame du F- being
in a situation six miles from London, he could not
see her till the next morning. Mons. dii F.-~ had
not been in bed for several nights, and was almost
overcome with agitation and fatigue. He, however,
instantly set out on foot for the habitation of his wife,
announced himself to the' mistress of the family, and
remained in another apartment, while she, after
making Madame du F- promise that she would
listen to her with calmness, told her that there was
a probability of heit husband's return to England.
He heard the sobs, the exclamations of his wife at
this intelligence-he could restrain no longer-he
rushed into the room-he flew into her arms-he
continued pressing her in silence to his bosom. She
86

';1

was unable to shed a tear, and it was not until long
after he had endeavored to sooth her by his ten..
derness, and had talked to her of her child, that she
obtained relief from weeping. She then with the
most violent emotion, again and again repeated the
same inquiries, and was a considerable time before
she recovered any degree of composure.
All the fortune Mons. du F- possessed, when he
reached London, was one half guinea; but his wife
had~ during his absence, saved ten guineas out of
her little salary. You will easily imagine how valu-
able this hoard became in her estimation, when she
could apply it to the precious use of relieving the
necessities of' her husband. Mons. du F- went to
London the next day, and hired a little garret:
there, with a few books, a rush light, and some
straw, in which he wrapt his legs to supply the want
of fire, he recollected not the splendour to which he
had once been accustomed, nor the dungeon from
which he had escaped, he saw his wife and child
once a week; and in those solitary moments, when
books failed to sooth his thoughts, he anticipated the
hour when he should again meet the objects most
dear to his heart, and passed the intervals of' time
in philosophical resignation. His clothes being too
shabby to admit of his appearing in the day, he issu-
ed from his little shed when it was dark, and en-
deavoured to warm himself by the exercise of walk-
ing.
Unfortunately he caught the small pox, and his
disorder rose to such a height, that his life was des-
paired of. In his delirium he used to recapitulate
the sad Story of his misfortunes:and when he saw
any person near his bed side, would call out, with
the utmost vehemence, " Qu'on sasse sortir touts
les Francois!~~* After having been for some days
in the most imminent danger, Mons. dii F~- reco
vei~'ed from this disease.

Make all the French go ou.
87

it

- ,

V


I

(

MAflVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

PARENTAL TYRANNY.

Six months after Mons. du F-'s return to
iand, his family found themselves compelled to SL
lence the public clamours, by allowing im a small
annual pension. Upon this, Madame du F- quit-
ted her place, and came to live with her husband
and her child, in an obscure lodging. Their little
income received some addition, by means of teach-
ing the French language in a few private families.
A young lady, -who came to pay me a visit at
London, in 1785, desired to take some lessons in
French, and Madame du F- was recommended to
us for that purpose. We soon perceived, in her
conversation, every mark of a cultivated mind, and
of an amiable disposition. She at length told us
the history of her misfortunes, and with the pathetic
eloquence of her own charming language; and after
having neard that recital, it required but common
humanity to treat her with the respect due to the
unhappy, and to feel for her sorrows that sympathy
to which they had such Jaim. How much has the
sensibility of Mons. and Ma(larne du F- over-rated
those 1)rQofS of esteem and friendship~, which we
were enabled to shew them in their adversity .-But
I must not anticipate.
On the 7th of October, 1787, the baron died,
leaving, besides Mons. du F-, two other sons and a
daughter.
I must here mention that at the time when Mons.
du F- was confined to his b~d in the prison of St
Yon, from the consequences s of his fall, his father in
order to avoid the clamours at Ronen, ~vent for some
weeks to Par ri. He there made a will disinherit~
ing his eldest son. By the old laws of France, how-
ever~a father could not punish his son more than once
for the same offence. Nor was there any thing in so
mild a clause that could much encourage disobedi-
ence; ~nce this single punishment of which the mer-
cy of 'lie law was careful to avoid repetition, might'
be eytended to residence for life in a dungeon. Such
w~s evidently the intention of the baron du F--; and
88

4'

III
Ii
A
0)
lii).
I'
A V)

though hi~ son disappointing this intention, had
escaped with only three years captivity, and some
broken limbs, the benignant law above mentioned
interposed to prevent farther punishment, and left
the baron without any legal right to deprive Mons.
du F- of his inheritance. His brothers being sen9
sible of this, wrote to inform him of his father's
death, and recall him to France. He refused tu go
while the lettre de cachet remained in force against
him. The baron having left all his papers sealed up,
which his younger sons could not open but in the
presence of their brother, they obtained the revoca-
tion of the lettre de cachet, and sent it to Mons. dii
F'-, who immediately set off for France.
The baron's estate amounted to about four thou
sand pounds a year. XVilling to avoid a tedious
litigation with his brothers, Mons du F- consented
to divide with them this property. But he soon
found reason to repent of his imprudent generosity;
those very brothers on whom he. had bestowed an
equal share of his fortune, refusing to concur with
him in his application to the parliament of Rouen for
the revocation of the arret against his marriage.
Mons. du F-, surprised and shocked at their refu-
sal, began to entertain some apprehensions of his
personal safety; and dreading, that supported by the
authority of his mother, .another lettre de cachet
might be obtained against him, he hastened back to
England. Nor was it till after he had obtained as-
Surances from several of the magistrates of Ronen
that they would be responsible for the safety of his
I)erson, that he azain ventured to return to France,
acco ~panied by Madame and Mad amoiselle du F-.
fl or(ler to obtain the revocation of the arret. On
their arrival at     finding that the parliament
was exiled,   that    business could not be prose~
cuteil at that time, they again came back to pass
the winter in England.
At this l)eriod his mother died; an(l in the follow-
ing surmuer, Mons. and Madame du F- arrived in
89

j ~

Aol'
Ii

o

1


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
France, at the great epocha of French liberty, on
the 15th of July, 17S9, the very (lay after that on
which the Bastile was taken. it was then that
Mons. du F-.-- felt himself in security on his native
shore-it was then that his domestic comforts were
no longer embittered by the dread of, being torn
from his family, by a separation more terrible than
death itself-it was then that he no more feared
that his repose at night would be broken by the en-
trance of ruffians, prepared to drag him to dungeons,
the darkness of which was never visited, by the
blessed beams of day.
Such is the history of Mons. dii F-. Has it not
the air of a romance? and are you not glad that the
denouement is happy ?--Does not the old baron die
exactly in the right place; or at the very page one
would choose ?-Or if I sometimes wished that he
had lived a little longer, it is only from that desire of
retribution, ixhich, in cases of injustice and oppres-
sion, it is so natural to feel. It is only because the
knowledge of the overthrow of the ancient govern
ruent, would have been a sufficient punishment to
'him for all his cruelty, lie would have sickened at
the sight of general happiness. The idea of liberty
being extended to the lower ranks, while at the same
time, tyranny was deprived of its privileges, he
would have found it insupportable, and would have
abhorred a country which could no longer bokst of
a Bastile; a country where iron cages were broken
down, where dungeons were thrown open, and
where justice was henceforth to shed a clear and
steady light, without one dark shade of relief from
letters de cachet.
But peace be to his ashes! If the recollection of
his evil deeds excites my indignation, it is far other-
wise with Moos. or Madame du F-. Never did I
hear their lips utter an expression of resentment O~
disrespect towards his memory; and never did I
with that warmth which belongs to my friendship
90

''

SCHOOL OF MAGIC.
for them, involuntarily pass a censure on his con-
duct, without being made sensible by their beha-
viour, that I had done wrong.

A CANON of Compostello had long been puzzled
to determine to what art or science he should apply
himself in his mature years. Honours, wealth and
affluence were the objects of his wishes; but a life
of active exertion was not at all adapted to his taste.
At length he decided in favour of magic. With
the knowledge of this art, he conceive(l that, after
some (lifliculties, which he would soon be enabled to
surmount, subservient spirits would accomplish all
his desires, without any efforts of his own. He im~
mediately enquired for a skilful magician, and was
recommended to a certain Don Rodriguez, at Tole-
do, as the most eminent necromancer of the age.
Without loss of time he set out for Toledo, went to
DonL Rodriguez, and requested the favour of his
instruction.
The canon had figured to himself, a man with a
magic girdle and long staff, a countenance fright-
fully austere, and a beard a yard in length; but he
found only a venerable and affable old man, resem-
~j   blincr in dress and person, the rest of the sons of
Ada~b. Having explained the nature of his errand,
Don Rodriguez calmly replied :-" You are welcome
to my house as my disciple and my son. The art to
which you have resolved to devote yourself, is in-
deed the most sublime of all; but it requires in him,
who wishes to make himself thoroughly master of it,
a pure heart. Have you this?" " I hope so."
"I must take your word for it. The powers of
nature are obedient to spirits, but there is only one
being who knows the heart. I shall, in the next
place ask you, whether you will be grateful to tue if I
91

{

I'

T~HE SCHOOL OF MAGIC.

:4
r~


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

initiate you into the mysteries of wisdom?" " My
life should be at your service."
"I am not quite so exhorbitarit in my demands.
But you know that you are canon of an ancient and
distinguished cathedral; you cannot fail to obtain
promotion to higher dignities: in this case, would
you bear your instructor in grateful remembrance?"
If you ask this question in earnest, what a
worthless wretch you must consider me! From this
hour all my property and influence shall be at youx
command."
The canon here added a multitude of protest
tions, which seemed at length to con~rince the old
man of his sincerity. He rose from his seat and
called his cook: she came. "Keep two partridges
in readiness," said he, "but do not put them on the
spit till you receive further orders: and now, my
dear son," continued he, turning to *the canon,
"come along with me." At these words he con-
ducted his new disciple into an apartment full of
books and in instruments, and commcn~ed his in-
structions.
Scarcely had he begun, when two men, from
Compostello, entered, and delivered a letter to the
canon. It was from the bishop, his uncle, who had
fallen sick. sinc~ his departure, requesting him to
return with all possible despatch, if he wished to
receive his last blessing. The nephew, who lament-
ed the interruption of his lesson, much more than the
illness of his uncle, thought that he might very well
dispense with his benediction; he therefore excused
himself, upon the plea of business of extreme import-
ance, and the two messengers returned from their
fruitless errand. Four day afterwards they came
back, and a~ured him, that he must ~et out without
(lelay, as his uncle was dead, and the chapter had
elected him to fill the vacant episcopal chair.
No sooner did Rodriguez hear this, than he en-
treated his pupil to confer the canonry, which he
had hitherto held,, on one of his sons. With a thou-

SCHOOL OP MAGIC.
sand excuses, the new bishop declined for this time
j complying with his request: begged Don Rodriguez
to permit him to appoint his brother to the vacant
place, and proposed that he should remove with him
to Compostello, and bring his Son to that city, pro-
posing faithfully to provide handsomely for the
young man on the first opportunity.
The old man accepted the offer..-.-They set out,
and had not long been at Compostello, when a mes-
sage and bulls arrived from his holiness. The new
bishop imagined that the latter related to his con-
firmation in his new dignity, but what was his as-
tonishment to find that the holy father, on account
of his extraordinary merits, offered him the arch
bishopric of Toloso, with, the liberty of appointing
his successor. He was, to be sure, somewhat puz-
zled to find out what were the extraordinary merits
to which his holiness alluded, hut yet he thought he
should be exceedingly to blame to refuse the offer
on account of this ignorance. He therefore accept-
ed it, and had scarcely done so, when Ro4riguez
again appeared, and most humbly requested him to
think of his son for the vacant bishopric.
His disciple acknowledged that he had promised
to provide for his son, but he assured him that pre-
vious obligations imposed on him the necessity of
giving this bishopric to a paternal uncle-" Come
with me to Tolosa," continued he, "and 1 shall not
there want opportunities of acquitting myself of my
debt, with usury."
The good old man was again satisfied; they went
to Tolosa, where Don Rodriguez spared no pains to
instruct the new bishop in his art. He made a
great proficiency; all hearts were devoted to him;
and in two years a new embassy arrived from Rome,
Drinking a cardinal's hat, and likewise the permis..
Slori to ti'ansfer the archbishopric to whomsoever he
thought fit.
Again Don Rodriguez appeared, and spoke with
more confidence than on the two former occasions;
93

(

A~j~
K
[I    Ill

1.

.1

I,


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
he represented the patience with which I e had wait-
ed, and the services he had in the mean time ren
dered, appealing, at the same time, to the explicit
promise he had received. His eminence seemed
extremely embarrassed; he confessed the justice of
the remonstrance of Don Rodriguez; but yet he had
.one more maternal uncle left, whose urgent en-
treaties, as well as the duty in general, of providing
for his family, he could not resist-" But come with
me to Rome," concluded he, " I shall certainly
there find abundant means of testifying my grati-
tude to your son."
Again Rodriguez complied. The new cardinal
e acquired at Rome universal respect. The Pope did
nothing till he had asked his advice; but his holi-
ness was attacked by a disease which proved mortal
The conclave was assembled, the arts of Don Rodri-
guez were successfully exerted, and with an unani-
mity of which there was no precedent, the late ca-
non of Compostello was elected the supreme head of
Christendom.
Scarce was the triple tiara placed, with due so-
lemnity, UI)Ofl his head, when Don Rod ri~uez again
appeared before him, repeated the request which he
had already thrice preferred, and guessed, from the
significant sh4ke of the head, as soon as he 1)egan to
speak, that he would receive the same answer.-
This ruffled the otherwise placid temper of the old
man, who assured his holiness that lie was weary of
these everlasting applications, and was determined
to be no longer imposed upon by empty promises;
that he well knew what he had deserved, and he
should now expect the holy father to fulfil the pro-
mise he had made at Toledo, or to give him a plump
denial at once.
This boldness exasperated the Pope-" Professor
of the black art !" cried he, " I know too what yo~i
have deserved-the scaffold. Begone fro ni my sight
Too long have I shown indulgence to your tricks.
If I find you in Rome to-morrow, I will deliver you
94

THE CONJUGAL TRIO.

to the holy inquisition, wl~ichThall bestow on you a
fit reWar(l for a heretic and magician."
At these words Don Rodriguez turned calmly
round: "Cook," sahi he, opening the door, "you
need only put down one partridge, for I shall sup
alone."-The charm was instantly dissolved. His
holiness was again transformed into the mere canon -
of Compostello, and perceived that this long series
of years, dignities, and events, haJ been the effect
of the art of Don Rodriguez; and that he now stood
tried and convicted of ingratitude, before a man
who was much ~o wise to throw away his instruc-
tions upon him.

THE CONJUGAL TRIO.

A WOMkN in Pennsylvania, of middle age, fell sick,
and was soon convinced that she had riot long to
live. The tluughts of her young children gave her
great uneasiness in these last moments of her life.
She sent for her husband to her bed-side, and did
not conceal from him the apprehensions she ent~r~
tamed, lest her successor in the conjugal bed should
ill-treat hei motherless infants; she begged and con-
jured her husband, now that she was going to leave
him, to marry the young and robust Rosina, who
had always been a faithful servant to them both, and
cheerfully performed whatever was required of her.
The husband regarded this proposal of his sick
wife, as the effect of impaired intellects, but as she
f~ insisted that he should swear to fulfil her wishes, he,
to please her, took an oath to that purpose. Two
days afterwards, the patient, distrusting her hus.
band's sincerity, called him and Rosina to her bed,
and told the latter that she intended to unite her in
marriage with the mali whom she herself was about
to leave a widower; exhorting her, at the same time,
to be faithful to him, to love him, and to take great
95

(

~     A

A'
A'
A' I1I~
1'
I'~'ti~I1
11
'''1'
I     ~ AA~
'44+
A} A
"~

A,
'I


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSiTORY.

care of his~ children, and his domestic concerns.
The good-natured Rosina promised~ weeping, to do
whatever she required. rhe sick woman united
them herself, and made them both take the matri-
monial vow, and obliged them immediately to put
the seal to their new contract, to prevent the possi-
bility of their receding.
Having accomplished this business to her satisfac-
tion, the patient gradually grew better: but the
husband, in whose sight the new wife had found fa-
vour, told his former partner, on her recovery, that
since she had obliged him to marryli osinahe was
determined not to forsake her as long as he lived.
The former, so far from being displeased, was, on the
contrary, highly delighted with this resolution, em-
braced her husband, and by her caresses testified
the warmest approbation. No misunderstanding
was ever known to arise between these two wives.
The second bore several children, ~o which the
first showed as much tenderness as to her own, and
p aid the utmost attention to the mother in her lying-
in. The young wife never forgot the respect, es~
teem, and affection which she owed tQ the elder, as
her benefactress: the days of this conjugal trio glided
happily away, and nobody took offense at their exv
traordinary union.

16

if

/

-  ~    ~~--------- -
~ --   -~

BELPHAGOR.

WE find, in the ancient records of Florence, that
a most holy man, whose life was, in after years, cele..
rated for sanctity, being one night deeply engaged
in meditation, fell into a dream, and saw numbers
of the souls of wretched mortals, who had \died un-
der the displeasure of the gods, and inhabited the
dark regions of Pluto, complaining, at least most
part of them, of having been driven to such misery
by marriage; the which greatly surprised Minos,
Radamanthus, and other infernal judges, as they
did not credit those falsehoods against the sex. But
these complaints increasing daily, after informing
Pluto of it, it was resolved to hold a council of all
the infernal deities upon the subject, and ultimately
determine upon what might be best to do, in order
to ascertain the whole truth of the case. These
being called to council, Pluto spoke in the following
manner:-.--" Although, my dearly beloved, by celes..
tial power and irrevocable fate, I possess this realm,
and am wholly unaccountable to any celestial or
A7        97

I

4
I
I

I 'I:

c
)
h


1~IARVE~~LQTJS RF~POSIT0RY~
mortal beng, yet as it is more wise to listen to th~
opinions of others, I have resolved to tak~ your ad~
vice, in a case that might eventually be of great (hs~
honour to our empire. All the souls of' men that
come into our infernal kingdom, say that their wives
are the cause of it; this appearing impossible to us,
we, therefore, fear tl~at in passing sentence on this
subject , we may, perhaps, be accused of' too much
cruelty, or of not being sufficiently severe, and tin-
friendly to justice; being desirous to avoid both
these charges, we have called upon you for tour ad-
vice and assistance, in order that this realm may re-
main, as it ever hath been, without disgrace." It
appeared to all the infernal lords, that it was a most
momentous case, apd they unanimou4y agreed that
it ought to be sifted to the very bottombut disagreed
about the means and manner of carrying the investi-
gation into effect; some were of. opinion that one of
them should be sent into the world, in the shape of a
man, to ascertain personally the truth; others thought
it mio~ht be (lone with less difficulty, by compelling
several souls, by various torments, to tell the truth'
but the majority decreeing that some one should be
sent, they decided upon the former opinion. No one
being inclined to take this business upon himself, it
was settled that chance should determine; the which
fell to the lot of the archdevii Belphagor, who, before
he was kicked out of heaven, was called archangel;
he, though against his will, was compelled, by Pluto's
power, to accept the office, and prepared to do that
which the council should determine, and bound hiur'.
self to such compacts as had solemnly been stipulated
between them' the which were, that he who should
be deputed should immediately receive a hundred
thousand ducats, with which he was to come into the
world, with the features of man-.take to him a wife
-live ten years with her-then, feigning death,
should return; and, by his own experience, prove
9$

BELPHAGOR.

of the married state. It was, moreover, fixed that he
L.   should be subject to all the misfortunes, and all the
evils incident to man-.-that of poverty, imprison'-
inent, diseasess, and other calamities which men
draw on themselves, unless he could extricate him-
self from them by deceit or cunning. Belphagor,
having assumed the man, and taken the cash, came
to the world, and after having ordered his horses
and atteAdants, he made cheerfully, towards Flo-
rence; the which city he chose, in preference to
any other, as the one where roguery and usury
were most likely to thrive; and, lakingihe name of
Roderigo, he hired a house in the Borgo d'Ogrissan-
ti. In order that they might not enquirer who he
was, he gave out that he had quitted Spain when
very young, and going to Syria, had gained all his
wealth at Ale ppo, and that his object in coming to
to take a wife, as being a more civilized
country, and more congenial to his feelings. Rode'.
[taly was
rigo was a very handsome man, about thirty, and
being in a very few days known to possess immense
riches, and it appearing that he was liberal and hu-
mane, many noble citizens, who had plenty of
daughters, an~1 a scarcity of money, made offers to
him; out of the number, Roderigo selected a most
beautiful young lady called Onesta, daughter of
Amerigo Donati, who had three other daughters,
almost marriageable, and three sons grown to man's
estate. Although he was of a noble family, and
greatly esteemed in Florence, yet, in consequence
of a style of living suited to his rank, he was very
poor.
Roderigo's wedding was most splendid; nothing usu'.
at on such occasions was 'forgotten or neglected. It
having been decreed, before he left the dark regions,
that he should be subject to all the passions of men, he
soon took delight and pride in the pomp and vanities
of the world, and the praises of men, the which cost
him dear enough. Besides this, he had not been
99

r

4

itI
'1


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                  BELPHAO OR.

Ion g with his wife, before lie fell desperately in love
wit hh er, and was wretched if she happened to look
otherwise than cheerful, or was displeased at any
thing. Madonna Onesta had not only brought
youth and beauty to Roderigo, but such a share of
pride, that he, who was a tolerable judge, thought
the J)ride of Lucifer himself was a mere nothing to
it; this greatly increased the very instant she l)C~~
ceived how much her husband donated upon her, and
~she thought she could rule him as she 1)leased, she
cornman(led him imperiously, nor (lid she hesitate,
if he denied her any thing, to abuse and maltreat
him, the ~vh ich greatly annoyed him, yet the ties of
matrimony, and the love he bore tier, made him en-
dure all with patience. I make no mention of the
very enormous expenses he was at, to l)lease her in
new fashions, which naturally often vary in this our
city, and which he was obliged to submit to for the
sake of peace. He was compelled to help his father-
zn-law, in portioning the other girls; then again, to
be on good terms with her, he was compelled to
equip one brother for the Levant, with clothes, &amp;c.,
and another to the west with silks; and, lastly, to
open a gold-beater's shQp for the third, all of which
consumed the best part of his fortune. Moreover,
in the carnival time, and festival of St. John, when
the whole city is nothing but feasting and revels,
and when the noblemen treat each other with
splendid entertainments, 'Madonna Onesta would
not yield to any lady in splendour and show, but in-
sisted that her. Roderigo should outdo them all in
magnificence. Quietly did Roderigo bear all these
things for the reasons above Inentiorle(l-peace and
~quietness; nor would he have grudged the expense,
though very annoying, nay, would have even borne
more, could he but have had peace in the house; or
could have waited quietly the moment of his ruin:
but on the contrary, it was quite the reverse, for be-
sides the ruinous e~xtravagance she led him into, her
diabolical nature wearied him daily, nor was there
100

4'
a servant in the house that could stay any tinxe.
Roderigo, of course, suffered much in notbeing able
to keep a single seri~ant that eoul(l take care of his
property4 for the very (levils he had brought with
him, under the shape of servants, rather chose to
return to hell, among their native fire and smoke,
than dwell in the world under her control. Rode..
rigo, going on in this dreadful way, and having
wasted all his property in the above manner, began
to live on the hopes of remittances from the east and
west, which he exI)eete(l to receive, hut being T)ut
to shifts and having good credit still, he borrowed
on promissory notes. At this juncture the intelli-
gence arrived, from the east and west, that one of
the Madonna Onesta's brothers had gambled away
all Roderigo's property, and that the other, on his
return with a ship laden with goods, uninsured, had
been (lrowne(1, and the ship sunk. rfhe instant the
news was ma(le known, the creditors assembled, and
judging he was a ruined man, they being prevent-
ed from making any demands, the notes ni';t being
as yet du ~, agreed it was proper to keep a watchful
*    eyeov er im, in order that he might not give them
the slip. Roderigo, on the other hand, seeing his
situation desperate, and thinking of the infernal law
that bound him to this ~i~hlinarv world, determined
to be off at any rate. He mounted his horse 'one
*    morning, and living near the gate Alphrato, he rode
through on his way. No sooner was his (leparture
heard of, than the creditors were roused up to action,
and applying to the magistrate, they flew with the
police, and even the populace, after him. Roderigo
was scarcely one mile oft; when he heard the outcry
behind him. Conceiving the road was but an In-
different protection, he thought that striking across
the fields would be a far safer way; but, in so doing
be found so many ditches in his road, the which
are frequent in that part, that he alighted, left his
horse, and ran on foot through fields covered with
vines and reeds, with which that country abounds.
12 101

'I
[

BELPHAGOR.


Ii
4'

DELPH~AGOR

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
lie arrived at Peretola, at the house of Matteo del
Bricca, a labourer of Giovanni ~del Ben~e, and as
chance would have it, found Matteo feeding the
oxen. Roderigo begged of him to save him from
the hands of his enemies, who, he said, pursue(l him
to take him, and shut him UI) in goal to (lie; P"~-
mising hirri a great reward, and adding, that he
would enrich him, and would, before he left him,
give him such proofs that he could no longer doubt;
and should he not keep his word, he would allow
him to deliver him up to his pursuers. Matteo,
though but a labourer, was a man of spirit, and kind-
hearted; and thinking he could lose nothing by
protecting him, he promised so to do, an(l concealed
him behind a dunghill, covered him with bomber
and sticks, which he had brought for firewood. Ro-
derigo had scarcely time to conceal himself properly
before his pursuers reached the place, who, how-
ever, could not obtain from Matteo an avowal that
he had seen any such a one as they described.
They, therefore, continued their way; being unsuc-
cessful in their search, after two days pursuit, they
returned back to Florence. When the bustle was
over, Matteo took him out of his concealment.
Rode rigo said to him, "Matteo, I am under the
greatest obligations to you, and will reward you,
and that thou mayest believe me, I will tell thee
who I am:"-upon this, he related to him who he
was, and the orders he received on going out of
hell; his taking a wife; the eternal plague he had
with her; and moreover, the means he should use to
enrich him, which were these :-~when he should hear
that there was a young woman possessed with the
devil, to be quite assured that ii was he who was
within her, and that he should not cast himself from
her until he himself should come, by which means
tie might get such payment from her friends as he
might choose. I hus agreed, he disappeared.
Very few days had elapsed, when it was report-
ed in Florence, that a daughter of Anibrogio
1o~

.1'

Amadeo, who had married Buonijuto Zebalduc~
ci, was possessed by the (levil. rube friends, of'
course, tried all the remedies usually recurred to in
I'   such cases, such as placing the hea(1 of SailTt Zarobi
on her head, and Saint John of Gualbeilo's cloak,
which things were rendered of no avail by Roderigo~
and to make it clear that the diseased had rca Ily
and truly an evil spirit within her, he made her
speak Latin, and hold a disputation on philosophy.
She made public the sins of people, and particularly
those of a monk, who ha(l kept a female, more than
four years, under the dress of a young friar; which
things people much marveled at. Messer Ambro-
gio, however, was truly miserable, and had lost all
hopes of a cure, when Mauco, having hear(l of the
case, came to him, and told him that if he would
give him five hundred forms, to purchase a little
farm at Ponterolo, he 'would restore the lady to her
perfect senses. Amhrogio accepted the offer, upon
which Matteo, having ordered several masses to be
said, and numerous mysterious ceremonies to be
performed. in order the better to conceal the busi-
ness, he accosted the lady, and whispering into her
ear, said, "Itoderigo, ~ am now come to thee that
thou mayest perform thy promise:" to which Rode-
rigo answered, "'but this sum is not enough to make
thee rich, therefore, as soon a's I depart from this, I
will cast myself into the daughter of Charles, King
of Naples, nor will I depart from her until thou
contest to me. Thou wilt then make thy own de-
mand to the king, and after this, never trouble me
more." This sai(l, he came foi~th from the lady, to
the great amazement and j~y of all present. It was
but a few months after, that the news was spread
through Italy, of the accident which had bet~IIen
l(ing Charles' daughter. All the attempts of the
monks proving ineffectual to relieved her, and the
king having heard of Matteo, immediately des-
patched a messenger to Florence to fetch him.
Mateo arrived soon at Naples, and, after some art-
103

I'
41
~1
~sI

r

iii
~1 '4'
I 4~1
I'.'


MARV~LL0US REpOSITORY.
ful~practices, removed the evil spirit from the huly;
but before Roderigo quitted his hold, he said,
"Matteo, thou seest 1 have kept my word with thee,
in enriching thee; I there rove, am now under no obli-
gations whatever to thee; do not thou ~ver attempt
to appear before mebecause f might hereafler do thee
much harm, instead of the good I have done thee."
Matteo, returning to Florence very rich, for the
king had given him fifty thousand ducats, thought of
enjoying his wealth in comfort, unCOnsAOUS that
Roderigo would ever (10 him any injury; but this
hope was soon frustrated, by news arriving that the
daughter of Louis the Seventh of France was
possessed of the evil spirit; tlii~s quite upset the
mind of Matteo, considering the power of that king,
and coupling, withal, the threat of Roderigo, if ever
he appeared before him. Meanwhile, Louis, un-
able to find a cure for his daughter, and being told
of Matter's power of exorcism, sent at first a mes-
senger to request his attendance; but Matteo al-
leging indisposition as an excuse, the king was
obliged to apply to the government, who compelled
Matter to obedience. In great grief and perturbation
of mind did Matteo arrive at Paris; he told the king
that certainly there were such things, by which he
had ibrmerly cured persons possessed with the devil,
but that was riot the case with all such, because
there were some of so wicked a nature, that neither
threats, exorcisms, or religious ceremonies could
move them; yet he would certainly do his best; but,
should his endeavours prove useless, he entreated
his majesty to pardon him. The king, greatly di~
appointed and incensed, replied, that if he did not
cure his daughter, he should certainly be hanged.
Matteo, of course, felt much alarmed at his ticklish
situation; nevertheh~ss, summoning up I)i5 whole
stock of~courage, he desired the lady might be call-
ed in, and, with all humility, in a whisper, entreated
Roderigo to take pity o&amp;him, reminding him of
what he had formerly done by him: to which Rode
104

BELIPHrAG OR.

rigo answered~ "treacherous villain, hast thou the
boldness to appear before me? dost thou forget I
made thea the rich man thou art? I will now show
thee and the world how I can bestow gifts, and be-
reave mortals of them at my pleasure, and before
thou qiuttest this place, I'll have thee gibbeted."
Matter, conceiving he was lost, and seeing no other,
means of escape, determined to try his fortune in
another way; therefi)re, desiring the lady might be
dismissed, he said to the king, " Sire, I have already
told your majesty, that there are such malignant
spirits, against which nothing will avail, and this is
one; however, I will try one last experiment; which,
should it succeed, will make your majesty and my-
self' most happy; should it fail, I hope your majesty
will feel that compassion towards me that my inno-
cence deserves. To this effect, your majesty will
please to order that a large platform be erected at
the piazza of Our Lady, large enough to contain
all your barons and clergy. (Jecking the railing with
cloths, silks and gold fringes; in the middle of this
platform I wish an altar to he place(I, and on Sun..
day morning next I wish your majesty to attend, in
solemn and royal pomp, with all your barons and
clergy, in their richest canonicals, when high mass
shall be chanted, and the lady brought forth. Be-
sides these things, I do request that a group of at
least twenty persons be placed at one corner of the
square, with trumpets, horns, bugles, cymbals,
drums, kettle-drums, and other terrific instruments,
who, at the waving of my hat, shall immediately
strike up and walk on towards the platform; this
and certain other exorcisms will, [hope, drive the
evil spirit from the lady." Every thing was order
ed by his majesty which Matteo desired; on the
Sunday morning, the king, barons, clergy, and
populace being assembled, the mass was celebrated,
and the lady brought up to the platform by two
bishops, an(l several noblemen. Roderigo, when he
beheld such a multitude collected together, was ab
105

/1~

n

VI -'It
'II
1'

?
i


/

{

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
most confounded: "what the devil does this das
hardly scoundrel mean to do," said he to himself,
"does he think to frighten me by all this show and
bustle; does he not know that I am used to the
pomp and splendour of heaven, and the fire and
furies of hell? hut I will punish him, that 1 will."
Matteo approached him, and entreated him to be
gone. "What do y6u mean," said Rod~rigO, "do
you think to terrify me by &amp;ll these preparatiOI1S~
dost thou think to shelter thyself from my power
and the king's rage ? wretch! scoi~ndrCl that thou
art! I will have thee hanged, cost~ what it may;"
and at it they went, abusing each other, till at last
Matter thought it would be useless to lose any more
time, and gave the signal by waving his hat. All
those that had been ordered, played up, and with an
infernal noise approached the scaffold. RoderigO,
at this horrid cry and noise, pricked up his ears,
not kr~owing what it could be, and asked Mat-
teo what all that meant. Mlatteo, seeming quite
alarmed, said, "Oh Roderigo, it is your wife, it ~s
your wift, that is coming to you!" At the hearing
of his wife's name, no one would credit the agitation,
fright, and terror it threw him into; and, without
considering the improbability of its being so,,he was
so thunder~5truck, that he instantly made off in a
bustle, and left the lady free, preferring to go back
to hell and give an account of his mission, to en-
countering the vexations, spite, troubles, hardships,
and dangers, to which the marriage yoke had sub-
jecte'd him. Thus Belphagor returned to the infer-
nal regions, gave a true and circumstantial account
of all the evils which a wife brings into a house.
And Matteo, highly delighted at his exploit, and at
having outwitted the devil, returned home in rap-
tures.
106

STORY OF A STORK.

A REMARKABLE STORY OF A STORK.
SOME years ago, a tame stork was kept in the
court-yard of the University of' Tubingen in Germa-
ny. One day Count Victor Gravenitz, a student
there, shot at a stork's nest adjacent to the college
and probably wounded the stork then in it, as he
was observed, for some weeks, not to Stir out of the
nest. This happened in autumn ~
Storks began their periodical ~ vhen foreign
~ stork was emigrations. In the
ensuing spring,~         observed on the roof of'
the college, and, by its incessant chattering, gave
the tame stork, walking below in the area, to under-
stand, that it. would be glad of its company. But
this Was a thing impracticable, on account of its
wings being clipped; which induced the stranger,
with the utmost precaution, first to come down to
the upper gallery, the next day something lower,
and at last, after a great deal of ceremony, quite in-
to the court. The tame stork, which was conscious
of no l~ arm, w'~nt to meet him, with a soft cheerful
note, a~i d a sincere intention of giving him a friend
ly reception; when, to his great surprise, the other
fell upon him with the utmost fury. The spectators
present, indeed, for that time, drove away the
foreign stork; but this was so far from intimidating
him, that he came again the next day to the charge,
and during the whole summer, continual skirmishes
were interchanged between them. Mr. G. R. V. F.
had given orders that the tame stork should not be
assisted, as having only a single antagonist to en-
Counter: and, by being thus obliged to shift for him-
self, he came to stand better on his guard, and made
such a gallant defence, that at the end of the cam-
paign, the stranger had no great advantage to boast
of. But the next spring, instead of.a single stork,
came four; which, without any of the foregoing
ceremonies, alighted at once on the college area,
and directly attacked the tame stork, who indeed, in
107

I

B

1$
f

~1~


MARVELLObS REPOSITOnY.
~ne view of several spectatorS~ standing in the galle.
ties performed feats even above human valour, (if
I may use that expressions) defending himself, by
the armS nature had given him, with the utmost
bravery, till at length, being overpowered by supe~
nor numbers, hiM strength and courage began tot
fail, when very unexpected auxiliaries came in to his
assistance. All the turkies, ducks, geese, and the
rest of the fowls, that were brought U~ in the court
(to whom, undoubtedly, this gentb~ stork's mild and
friendly behaviour had endeare d hVm) w without the
least dread of the danger, forinedahndof rampart
around him, under the shelter of which he might
make an honourable retreat from so unequal a ren~
counter; and even a peacOck  which before never
c~~ld live in friendship with him, on this emergefl
cy, took the part of oppressed innocence; and w~ts,
if not a true bottomed friend, at least a favourable
udge on the stork's side. Upon this, a stricter
watch was ,kept, against such traiterous incursioflS
of the enemy, and a stop put to more bloodSlIed,
till at last, about. the beginning of the third spring,
above twenty storks suddenlY alighted in the court,
with the greatest fury, and, before the poor stork's
faithful lifeguards could form themSelVesor any of
the people come to his assistance, they deprived him
ot' life, though, by exerting his usual gallantrY~ th~y
paid dear for their purcha.Se: The mal~Volence of
these strangers, against this innocent creature, could
proceed from no other motive than the shot fired
by Count Victor from the college, and which, they
doubtless suspected was done by the instigatioll of
th~ tame s or c.
lOS

THE~

OF

A DEAD ALDERMAN.

MR. ENTERTAINER,
Though you have lately refused, I do not say
without reason, the assistance of Peter Paragraph,
Esq., notwithstanding he appeared to have been a
tried write?', I presume you will have a better opin-
ion of an author, who, without any views upon your
purse, only wishes occasionally to administer gratui-
tously to th~ pleasures of your readers. Peter, it
scems, was poor;-so was I; and, while I was an
author, the numerous straits I ha ye been in, and the
inconveniences I have suffered, ~often recur to my
memory now, though, thanks to my better stars! a
lucky chance in the lottery of life enabled me to re-
nounce scribbling and starving both together. How-
ever, as there is something pleasing in retracing past
dangers, I will now proceed to relate to you some of
*   my adventures under the following heads:-
*    The .fluthor, disappointed of a good Supper, sorrow..
fully ret itrning' to his Garret-finds a Thumb, which
lie supposes to be the Drumstick of a Fowl-his
Mortfl cation-Reflections-----.flppearance of the
Spectre of an .fllderman-his narrative- The Old
Searcher- The Barber-.In overbearing. Under'-
taker-.a consistent Clergyman- The Interment--
Resurrection Men- Vindication of Surgeons.
You must know, Sir, that, having been invited to
sup with my bookseller, near St. Paul's, who, when
K                   109

/1~

If
141
.4
ii
I

OF

G

4
1


i

MkRVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
he wished to sharpen my wits for executing any new
project of his own, was no churl at his table; having
dined at the house of a poor, but hearty friend, I
refused my share of a bladebone of mutton, and ate
very sparingly at tea-time, in order to avoid incomn-
moding his craving family; or, rather, to indulge a
little excess at night, at my master's more plentiful
table: but, jutige of my mortification, after waiting
at my bookseller's till half after eleven, he sent word
to his wife, that, having attended a sale, he was de-
tained to sup with the gentlemen of the trade, and
would therefore be glad to see Mr. Readypen at his
house on the following evening. But, to make the
best of a bad bargain, meditating on my way upon
the dignity of human nature, and the superlative
excellence of the pleasures of the mind over sensual
gratifications, and full of this sentimental truth, I
overtook two young gentlemen, one of whom was
describing to the other the delicious cntertainrnent
of the day, and I could not forbear listening to the
luscious description of the varieties he had tasted
His fellow traveller assured him he had partaken of
a treat by no means inferior. "I have," said he,
and here he pulled out i~is handkerchief, which, I ob-
served, aS it unrolled, dropped something on the
ground. I. immediately hastened to pick it up, with
an intention of returning it to the owner; but, when
I took hold of the precious prize, it felt like the
drumstick of a pullet. "0 propitious Fortune,"
cried I; "nobly hast thou recompensed my former
wants!" and was then going to devour the lucious
morsel; but, upon recollecting that I had~ a dry crust
in my garret, I hastened home with all celery, and
an hundred times blessed the prudent forecast of my
young b~au, who had, by his saving economy, pro-
vided, in the midst of plenty, for a future occasion;
and I made no doubt but that he had served his ap-
prenticeship in the city, under the eye of some pro-
vident citizen. "Glorious treats," said, Ito myself,
"are those, where the pockets, as well as the stomach,
110

T~IE DEAD ALDERMAN.
may be filled; and where the good freemen, by a
happy invention, can save, in a tin cud, a second
n~eal, to be ruminated and chewed at a more leisure..
ly opportunity."
of these thoughts, the very reverse of those
which I had encouraged before the lucky minute of
my seizing the drumstick, I entered my lodgings;
and, though I had seven landing-places to encounter
before I reached the top, yet I ascended with a joy-
ful alacrity, and directly proceeded to search after
my crust, intending to save, that night. the expense
of candle and coals. But, alas! after an hour's fruit
less search, the crust was yet hidden from my view.
Being, therefore, obliged to strike a light, I could not
help first making use of my candle in examining, by
its splendour, the fortunate drumstick which I had
picked up. I pulled it eut of my pocket with all the
joy of a miser unloading his bags; but, oh reader!
how wilt thou pity my condition when I tell thee
what I saw! I saw not the drumstick that I hoped to
have seen; I saw not either the leg, wing, breast,
neck, of turkey, pullet, capon, chicken, fowl, duck,
teal, goose, or gosling; but I saw the wretched thumb
of some lilfeless mortal, whose body, I presume, had
furnished the treat my provider had mentioned.
Before I had well reflected on my greal and un-
speakable loss (for I was not quite hungry enough
to play the cannibal,) it came into my head that pos-
sibly this thumb might belong to some poor author,
who, like myself, was first reduced by the booksel-
lers to a skeleton, and then sold by those severe task-
masters to their brother liverymen, as an additional
piece of furniture for Surgeons' Hall. However, I
was much chagrined at finding 1 must go to bed with-
out my meal: I did so, with as much composure as
could be expected from a supperless philosopher.
As I had nothing to suffer from indigestion, I was
quickly relieved from my distresses by a sound slum-
ber, which lasted till I was disturbed by a spectre,
who, with pale hands, drew my curtain aside (that
111

I~Ij
A
14
I'
r CIII


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY

K
~

THlE DEAD ALDERMAN.

N

is to say, four sheets of letter-press pasted together,)
and commanded me to deliver himn his thumb.
At his hasty summons I plucked up my courage,
and'asked him who he was: " I am," replied the ap-
parition, " an unfortunate man, who passed my days
here on earth in great ease and tranquility."-" An
unfortunate man !" cried I.-" Hear me," said the
spectre, " and attend. At my death, my friends
lamented, and kindly deposited me in the ground;
hoping, most cordially, that I should soon rot, and
never trouble them more. But, although the Fates
suffered me to live peaceably, yet they resolved to
make me pay for my quietness after death, and there-
fore determined that 1, who was too lazy to undergo
any adventures while living, should experience a
variety of hardships' after my decease. It pleases
me, 0 Readypen, that by means of that thumb, which
you rescuedl from the surgeon's clutches, we should
'become acquainted, because I am desirous that man-
kind should1 be acqainted with the History of my
Death and Adventures. And whom could I find
more able and proper to undertake the part of an
*  historiographer than you, who act in an intermedi-
ate state between life and death; not dead enough
to be buried and anatomized, nor sufficiently alive
to be known or regarded ? Take courage, then.; for
although I have cheated you of one meal, by the loss
of your drumstick, I intend giving you a week's bread
*  and beer, by furnishing a paper or two on the numer-
ous misfortunes and accidents that I have sustained,
since the day of my decease." .
My spectre having thus introduced himself, begged
leave to sit down and tie on his thumb: " Sir," said
the dead man; " but I hope I have not tied my thumb
too tight. Have you no ribbon, Mr. Readypen, in
your lodgings? This packthread is plagay hard.''-.
" None, Sir," answered I. " You will please to begin
your narrative; you see I am ready."--" Well, then,"
said the ghost," "first for the title; for titles, you lknow,

(

" Timot/heus, Sir," said I, " by all means: -Timothy
is a diminutive."
"rThe breath," continued the ghost, " was no soon-
er out of my body, (a circumstance which, like matri-
mony, puts an end to all other adventures,) than my
sorrowful niece sent the nurse for an old searcher,
who was to take an account of my death, and assist
in laying me out. Whether the old searcher had at-
tended any anatomical lectures, or whether she had
gain.ed her knowledge from frequent observation, I
will not pretend to say, but certainly she passed a
very curious and exact judgment upon every limb
and member of my body; and pretended, in many
respects, from what she saw, to judge of my appe-
tites and passions. ' This belly,' said the 01(1 dame,
patting it hard with the palm of her hand, 'has, I
warrant me, contained, in its time, as many bottles
of wine as inost cellars in the city (for, although so
much debilitated at present, you must know, Sir, I
was formerly an Alderman;) and here's an arm, thin
indeed withI sickness; but what a hand! I say, always
give me a man with a large fist. 0 poor pale lips,
where's all your kissing and slabbering? where's all
the chickens, and all the ducks, and all the turkeys,
and all the p~ullets, and all the fowls, and all the
game, and all the hams, and all the chines, and all
the haunches of venison, and all the turbot, and the
salmon, and the fish, and the beef, and the turtle, and
the marrow puddings, and the pies and the custards,
and all the delicious morsels, which have cost the
city so much money to entertain thee with ? Ay, and
where's all the pretty and the witty things yotu have
said Where's all the wise speeches and the long
speeches, you have made heretofore ? And this nose,

7
ix

112

are DIfmidium facti; they are half the battle. .Di-
midiumfacti, qui bene cepit, kabet."
THE DEATH AND ADVENTUREs OF TIMOTHY FINCH.

112^8                                                            .113


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

this good handsome nose; 0, the quantities of snuff
that this nose has consumed!'
"The searcher was now desirous to cover my body,
but the nurse objected. However, after a quarter
of an hour's meditation, Mrs. Nurse suffered me to
be covered u~; and having dismissed the searcher,
went immediately in quest of the barber.
"The barber, not liking the office of lathering
/ the beard of a dead citizen (as I presume, he thought
he should have no opportunity of displaying his news
or his oratory,) sent his apprentice, a lad about
elven years old. The boy was ordered into my room
to shave me, without being told 'that little and insig~
nificant circumstance of my death. When he came,
he began scraping and bowing, and hoped my Hon-
our was better. To this finding no answer return-
ed, he descended on tiptoe down stairs, and told the
nurse the gentleman was asleep. 'Asleep, you fool'!'
replied she; 'why, Mr. Finch has been dead these
ten hours; and we want to have him shaved before
th~ shrewd is put on, that he may look decent and
clean.'
"Having had this account, the boy was very un-
willing to return; and when he was at length i'm-
vailed upon to begin his job, his little hands shook so
much, that you may see he has nearly cut my nose
off in the operation.
"Well, Sir, I will not trouble you with a long ac-
count of the shroud, or the undertaker's behaviour
thereupon, nor insist any time on the cheats which I
was forced to behold, and was not able to redress;
how the undertaker charged double the quantity of
woolen that was used, to the great detriment of our
staple trade; how he inclosed me in a coffin made of
feather-edge boards, whose top app~earcd thick and
substantial, and whose bottom would hardly keep out
the sunshine from my limbs while I lay on the tres-
sels in the chamber.
"I shall also pass over the grief of my niece, which
was so little, that I should have done her no injustice,
114

THE DEAD ALDERMAN.
if I had entirely forgotten to mention it; the number
of drains the nurse and her helpmate required to
keep up their spirits during their nocturnal watches
over the dead corpse, and the curious conversations
which they held on ghosts, death-watches, appa-
ritions, and the place set apart for the dead. Be it
sflfficient to say, that the second night after my de-~
cease, I was, by the undertaker, screwed up in the
coffin, placed in an elegant hearse, and attended by
near a dozen cousins, who all lamented the very un-
just will of their kinsman, who had wickedly left all
his fortune to one favourite niece.
"As soon as my corpse arrived in the hearse at the
churchyard gates, I was drawn forth like a large
applepuff, and conveyed on the shoulders of six men;
the two foremost of whom called me a great thick-
headed rascal, and swore I had as much lead on my
'scull as a church steeple. 'Zo-ds-,' cried one of the
middlemost, 'you need not complain, for all the
weight is in his belly; I warrant he died of a dropsy.
Why, there's as much water in him now as there is
at the New River Head.' 'While this curious conver-
sation was passing under me, the undertaken and
curate were as busily employed at the head of the
procession.
"'Zo-ds,' said Mr. Gumall, as he beheld the cu-
rate hastening across the churchyard to meet the
corpse, 'these idle clergy always make us wait:
there's no such thing as burying a man decently
while they are concerned: and, then, the shabby fel-
lows do but disgrace the procession when they come.
Anything of a gentleman would be ashamed of wear~
ing such rusty garments.'
"As he spoke these words, the curate came up;
whereupon Mr. Gumall addressed him as follows:-.
"'What, Sir, do you mean by making me wait in
this manner? Who the d-l, Sir, do you take me
for? I'd have you to know, Sir, that I am your su-
perior, Sir. I pay scot and lot, Sir; I pay to the
poor's rate, Sir; and I'll be used like a gentleman~
115

*1

1

''I
II Ii
7ff
~        l1~1
k':4 jfk'
'1ki       I -~
I             I
I


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

Ii

I

Sir; and expect to have my work done in time, when
I pay for it; and I'll make you know, Sir, what it is
to make a genTleman wait in this manner. 'Tis a
burning shame that poor dead gentlemen, God rest
their souls! can't go quietly to their graves, but
must be stopped by the pride and negligence of the
clergy. ,But the most insignificant will always make
the most trouble.' .
"'Great Sir,' answered the curate, 'be pleased
to stop the volubility of your tongue. I am not come
here to do* the work of an undertaker, or to mix in
the farce of woe, which you and your hirelings hang
out: my business is to do the work of Hin that sent
me, which I desire to .perform with the solemnity
that becomes my function. I stand here, good ISir,
to recommend your infirmities to the pardon of Hea-
ven, and not to increase them by wrangling with
you: therefore be so good as to attend with decency
and silence.' H aving thus said, the grave curate be-
gan' the service with humility, imploring the Crea-
tor's mercy and assistance-.
" The service being concluded, and the earth
thrown on iyny coffin by the sexton, I was left, of
course, to the worms and the earth, where I continu-
ed unmolested till night; when I heard a great strug~-
gle without the coffin between a worm and a beetle,
which should first get at my precious flesh. 'The
beetle went very awkwardly to work; but the worm,
having before examined the structure of Mr. Gum-
all's coffin, struck at the feather-edge, and got pos-
session in less than an hour-.
"0,- Mr. Readypen, can you conceive the tortures
of my heart at that moment? not to be able to de-
fend myself even from a worm who came rolling
over my body, and, having reached my face, he be-
gan hoaring through the gristle of my nose: but,
Heavens be praised! a small clot of undigested snuff,
which had not been able to find its way into my
stomach, opposed the tyrant, and, with its stimulat-
116

THE DEAD ALDERMAN.

ing salts, suffocated the rascal, before he could wrig-
ge himself backward out of the hole he had made.
"I now began to wish for the use of my bands,
that I might remove the wretch from my nose; but,
that being impossible, I comforted myself with the re-
flection, that many fine ladies were in as bad a plight,
for the best tweezers in the world can never entire-
ly rid a lady of, her animalcula, which will remain
immoveable in spite of the joint efforts of maid or
mistress.
'4 But these were small evils. At twelve I heard
the mattock and spade busily employed over my
head, and could distinguish several voices above.
At length, by the light of a lantern, .I beheld (for I
could see, though dead, as well as hear) a little dap-
per fellow in silk stockings, and a large tie wig,
breaking open the lid of my coffin. As soon as he
had divested my body of its incunmbrances, he cried
out, 'On my life, an excellent subject-! as lean as a rat !
Handylown the rope, and let Dr. pull me and
the corpse up together. I'll tie the cord round us
both: 'twill save time and trouble.' Upon this, my
little companion bound me to himself, and we were
together delivered from the grave..
"O019 Sir, how inhumanly 'Squire .Finch was
then used I dare not tell you. The basket which
was prepared for my body being too small, I was
---" " Hold, hold, Mr. Finch," replied I; "let
me hear no reflections against the surgeons; they
are an honourable and worthy set of men, of ex-
cellent use to society: they are, as I may .term it,
the engineers of mortality, the -" " Mr. Rea..
dypen," replied the ghost, " I am perfectly of your
opinion: I confess, indeed,. when first they lugged.
me out of the grave in that ungenteel manner, I
was somewhat prejudiced against them; but all my
scruples, .with regard to the legality and humanity
of cutting up the body of a christian solemnly com-
mitted to the grave, vanished in an instant, when I
heard the ingenious Mr. -(in a lecture which he
17

A

If
~ii I
I$~i
II ~
7It~

I11 IlL .~
p1        ~
1$

I


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

read over me, while his myrmidons were scraping
my head) declare the necessity of such operations;
when he so learnedly displayed the longevity of man-
kind, and the great decre~use of burials in The bills
of mortality, since the timddhat such public dissec-
tions were permitted and encouraged.
"But, Mr. Readypen, though that learned gentle-
man, and all other learned gentlemen of the profes-
sion, are certainly right in these points, yet, as some
weak and prejudiced persons are still averse to such
operations on the bodies of their departed friends and
relations, I would humbly beg leave to propose a
scheme to the gentlemen of the saw and the crooked
knife, that, as they insist upon the necessity of a fre-
~quent use of anatomical experiments on the deceas-
ed, and are always ready to persuade every body
about them that such practice is agreeable to human-
ity, decency, and friendship, they will, for the fu-
ture, consign over, by will, or otherwise, as shall
please them best, the bodies of themselves and their
relations to this charitable use: by which means the
rest of mankind, who are not so wise or settled in
their opinions in this matter, will be suffered to lie
peaceably in 'their graves; and the gentlemen sur-
geons will contribute, both in their lives and deaths,
to investigate the truth of nature; and manifest, by
~n uninterested display of their own bodies, the
beautiful mechanism of the human frame."

114 TOLERATION AND 5UPER5TVflON HAPPILY COUN
TERAC TED.
BEING once upon journey to Switzerland,, I was
benighted near Mentz: my horse soon after throw-
ing me in an unfrequented road, my cries would
have been ineffectual, if m~ good genius had not di-
rected an honest farmer to my relief. I had a leg
broken, and was iiearly frozen with cold; but being
118

4,.

SUPERSTITION COUNTERACTED,
brought to his dwelling, I received every kind of as-
sistance that my case required, though I could not
help reading a strong disgust against heretics in the
countenance of my hostess; and I really believe, if
her husband had been as bigoted as herself, instead
of prosecuting my jo.iirney, I should have been sent
to my grave. Suffice it to say, that, in the intervals
of my disorder, I contracted an intimacy with my
host, nearly allied to friendship: we talked upon dif-
ferent subjects, and sometimes upon religion. I was
astonished that a man, so reasonable in other re-
spects, should be so strongly attached(to some of the
grossest superstitions of the Romish church; though
at that time I thought it prudent to seem satisfied
with the reasons he urged for his condud; but as a
saint's day occurred soon after, I learned, to my
great surprise, that my host was not only a good
Catholic in theory, but in practice; and that in con-
formity with the unnatural doctrines of austerities,
usually practiced upon these occasions, he meant to
exercise the practice of flagellation upon himself
What indignation did I then feel against priests and
monks! but, as arguments would have been useless,
I hit upon the following contrivance: taking an op-
portunity to watch his cominginto my chamber, and
when no other person should be present but our-
selves, I stripped to my shirt, and took a rope, and
began to discipline myself pretty smartly; my host,
as I conjectured, with much surprise, asked me
what I was doing? I replied, "You have laid me
under so many obligations, that, having no other
means to convince you of m~ gratitude, I have taken
this method merely to give you satisfaction " "My
dear friend," exclaimed my host, "is it possibIe~ you
can believe that you afford me any satisfaction by
putting yourself in pain?" I answered, "in so do-
ing, I am only imitating your own example in the
means you took to please the Almighty!" He at-
tempted to reply; but, as he was unable to proceed,
I went on, and followed up the convictions he had
119

t

1
e

i


1'

MARVELLoUs, REPOSITORY.

received. I found I wats at liberty to express my,
sentiments, which I afterwards did occasionally, in
Latin, to avoid giving offence to his wife; andlI at
length, parted with him with reluctance; but had
the satisfaction of hearing, upon my return, that he
had recanted from th-eopimiorwin which he was edu-
cated.

THE SYBIL

AND

THE RUSSIAN OFFICER

THE LAWYERs' PATRON.

ST. EVONA,'a lawyer of Britain, went to Rome,
to entreat the Pope to give the lawyers of that coun-
try a patron, to which the Pope replied, that he
knew of no Saint, but what was disposed of to other
professions. At this Evona was very sad, and ear-
nestly begged the Pope to think of them. At last
his holiness proposed to St. Evona, that he should go
round the church of San Giovanni di Latei-ano
blindfold,and after he should have said a certain num-
ber of Ave Marias, that the first saint he should lay
hold of should be his patron. This the good old
lawyer willingly undertook, and at the end of his
Ave Marias, stopped at St. Michael's altar, where
he laid hold of the Devil, under St. Michael's feet,
and cried out, " this is our Saint, let him be our
Patron.'' Being unblinded, and seeing what a patron
he had chosen, he went to his lodgings so dejected,
that a few months after he died. II1s reputation for
honesty was, however so great, that a witty. Frenck..
nmxn wrote upon his tomb at Rome, " St. Evona un
Breton avocat non larron halleluiah."

120

IN the year 1773, when a fierce and bloody war
was carried on between Russia and Turkey, a
young gentleman of good fairly, who resided in
Petersburgh., of the name of Schemidt, had obtain-
ed a commission from his government, and was
shortly after ordered to join his regiment, which
was in active service on the frontiers of 'Iurkey.
Prior to setting out, he was ordered to take charge
of a number of recruits, and to march them to bead
quarters; they had been some days on their route,
when passing near a small village, not far from their
.destination, and at the extreme end, under a large
oak, near the road side, was a small Lut, in which
dwelt an old woman, who was a reputd Sorceress,
or Sybil; and seemed to be well known to one of the
party. -The recruits, who had received part of
their bounty, each was resolved to have his fortune
,told, -and prepared a small piece of silver accordl-
ingly. The Sybil made each show his hand, and
looking earnestly in the face, and examining his
person with a scrutinizing eye, told every man
something extraordinary that had happened to him,
as well as his future destiny. J [hen all who had
paid were satisfied, and about to depart, she beck
oned Lieutenant Schemidt to approach, (he had
remained near her out of curiosity, witnessing the
credulity of the recruits,) he laughed at her, and
damned her for an old .b-, did she think he had
any faith in her incantations.--" 'Well," said she,
L                  12l

41


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

4
ti

SYBIL AND OFFICER.

"for once let me look 'at your hand, it can do you no
harm at present, I will require no reward for what I
shall impart, and it vitally concerns you, to know
your future fate." He held out his hand, she stu..
died the lines pn it, and with a grave and solemn ac-
cent, she spoke as follows:-" Beware of the Ides of
March, Ca~sar was warned in due time, but he gave
no heed to his warning; you will ,join your regi-
ment, and after four months you will be promoted
to be a captain; but during the Ides of March, or
on the 18th of that month, you will have the com-
mand of the guard for. that night, when you will be
surprised by the enemy, and cut off." He passed
on, andlistened with surprise, to the conversation
of the recruits, each imparting to the other, the
witches prediction. It certainly did recall to his
own recollection, "The Ides of March," yet he
treated the whole as a fable.
He arrived at head-quarters, presented his cre-
dentials, and. was~vell received. Almost immedi-
ately after, the warfare between the Russians and
Turks assumed a desperate aspect; quarter, to the
vanquished, was refused to be given or taken by
either party; the Turkish cavalry were well known
to receive a handsome rew~.rd from their govern-
ment, for the number of Russian heads each man
brought into their camp; so that universally, when-
ever the Turks gained any advantage, they always
decapitated all those that fell on the field of battle,
or otherwise came into their hands; and in like
manner, the Russians put to death all Turks that
came within their power, in the most cruel manner;
many valuable officers were cut off, and no man
was sure of his life a moment. The regiment Lieu-
tenant Schemidt was in, happened to be peculiarly
unfortunate, in losing a number of officers, and as
each was promoted by seniority, before four months
had elapsed, as predicted by the Sybil, he was pro-
nioted to the command of a~ troop. Shortly after
his promotion, on walking down the lines of the
122

camp alone, at the door of a settler's booth, he was
accosted by an old healthy looking woman, saying,
"Well captain, has not part of my prediction prov-.
ed true ?" he instantly recognized the Sybil, whom
he had seen at the village of N-, when about to
join his regiment.-" Ha! old witch, what the devil
brought you here?" said he; she answered, that not
being able to obtain a living by telling fortunes, she
had commenced suttler, and now followed the camp,
and sold small wines and provisions to the troops.
"Well," said he, "I dont forget the Ides of.Mareh;
but I will yet bet a hamper of the best Tokay in
Turkey, that that part of your prediction will be~
untrue, and that you will appear, in the eyes of all
men an impostor." This' speech seemed to rouse
the old woman's scholar, her eyes flashed fire, her
frame became agitated, she said, "I take you at
your word, captain, and will make a deposit of the
amount in your Colonel's hands, and I will take
your word, as a man of honour, to the fulfilment on
your part. If you are alive on the 14th of March
next, 1 will pay you my hamper; if you arc not,
your executors shall pay me a like complement."
It was immediately agreed upon, and he departed.
On his return to head quarters, he met his Colonel,
who imparted to him that an old woman, a well
known suttler of the camp, had lodged a certain de-
posite in his hands, which she said was a bet pend-
ing between him and her, and which was to be de-
cided on the 14th of March next, yet two months
distant. The captain was confused, told the Colo-
nel the facts, at ~vhich they both laughed heartily, yet
Captain Schemidt, as he afterwards acknowledged,
could not banish the Ides of .March altogether from his
memory. The time passed quickly on, the ~3th of
March arrived, all was peculiarly quiet, no general
engagement was expected, the two armies were in
cantonments, waiting the approaching opening sea
son, to commence hostilities; a strong picket guard
was mounted every night, and frequent skirmishes

K.

I,

4"
j.      ~
''$4,

1


MARVELLOUS REPosIToRY,

II
I

SYBIL AND OFFICER.

occurred -which had but little influence on the main
bodies.
The officers of Captain Schemidt's regiment were
sitting, after dinner, over the bottle, and the Colonel
mentioned the oddity of the wager, all joined
heartily in the laugh against the captain, at the sin-
gularity of the affair, when the Adjutant of the day
entered the tent, and apprised the officer of the
night, Captain B-, that his picket guard was
ready; Captain Schemidt rested easy, for he was
the third from whose turn it was to mount for that
night, Captain B- went out, they resumed their
conversation, and in less than a quarter of an hour,
the Adjutant returned, and said the next officer
must turn out, that Captain B- had been taken
violently ill, and was carried to his tent, all looked
grave, the next captain in rotation turned out: few
wordIs escaped the company for some time, the Co-
sonel pushed round. the bottle, and all was as usual-
a few moments more elapsed, when the Adjutant a
third time entered with a grave countenance, apolo-
gising for being obliged to disturb them so often;
but an accident of a serious nature had happened
to Captain C-, that on mounting his horse, (which
was rather fiery,) he had plunged and kicked in
such a manner that he threw his rider, and broke
his right arm, and he was now in the hands of the
surgeon. It was now Captain Schemidt's- turn, he
bounced up, the Colonel and officers rose also; the
Colonel said: -" Schemidt, this looks serious." A
.Captain, a friend of his, came forward, and volun-
teered to take the guard,.which he would by no
means admit of; he mounted, examined the men,
who were chosen and tried veterans, and consisted
of two Lieutenants and one hundred men, of which
he had the command. They marched off to their des-
tination, the out-post, which was two miles in ad-
vance from the camp, and the only pass where the
enemy could attack their line. Captain Schemidt
was resolved to .be particularly on the alert the
1 24 .

C

whole night; the country being unknown to him, he
placed centries at short distances, to keep up a corn
munication. The night was exce-eding dark, he
kept his men in close column and in constant mo-
tion, with sabres drawn, till after two o'clock; all
was silent as death, they had been six hours on
horseback: they halted for a few minutes, and
-alighted to give them a little corn, and had the bri-
dies slipped back. on their necks; when suddenly,
as' like a rushing mighty wind, they heard the
trampling of horses, between them and -their own
camp, each ran to, rebridle, but before they could
reach their horses, they heard the cry of Alla! Alla!
Alla! and an overpowering body of Turks, dashed
into the very centre of their handful of men, in
comparison, and each felt his horse fall either over
him, or by his side, and himself cut down, before he
was able to stand on the defensive. In short 500
chosen Turks had been selected for this service, and
had concealed themselves in a ravine, a few
minutes before the arrival of the Russian picket-
guard, within the -pass, a place where they could
scarcely be suspected; they proceeded with so much
caution and secrecy, that they never fired a shot,
lest they might create an- alarm in the camp, and
with the greatest exactness surprised and cut down
all the centries. Captain Schemidt was in the cen-
tre, and had succeeded in rebridling his horse, and
his foot in the stirrup. about to remount, when a
dagger was plunged, quick as lightning, into its op-
posite side, and it immediately fell, and threw him
to the ground, with his foot entangled in the stirrup.
The weight of the dead horse gave him excruciating
pain, so that he was near fainting. In two or three
minutes all was again silent, save the groans of the
dying men and horses, which were soon silenced,
effectually, by the Turks' daggers; he thought to
-remain in this position, as did some others who were
but slightly wounded, till the Turks should ride off;
but what was his consternation, when he could dis-
.L 2                125

V


d
t1y~ ii
p

4 i

SYBIL ANIt OFHCER.

1~IARVELLOTJS REPOSITORY.
inctly perceive, that a close line of the enemy, had
been formed round their now prostrate party, and
they proceeded immediately, to rifle and decapitate
every single man of the Russians, and for which
purpose, each Turk was provided with a sharp
knife, and a bag to put as many heads in as he could
sever from the bodies, and to do them justice, they
could operate in that way with astonishing facility
They had commenced from the outer, and were ap-
proaching fast to the centre, where Captain Sche-
midt lay. He now thought all was over with him,
yet still he felt most anxious to live, and made one
great effort, with his disengaged foot, to move the
dead horse off the other, which he miraculously suc-
ceeded in his sabre was drawn in his hand: a Turk
who was particularly industrious in penetrating to
the centre, and already had a tolerable bag full of
heads, had actually laid his bloody hand on the Cap-
tain's, with his great knife in the other; the Captain
watched his opportunity, and before he could apply
the knife, he ran him tl~rough the body; he encoun-
tered another Turk, whom he also cut down, and
springing forward, in a state of desperation, over-
threw every obstacle, and cut his way through the
cordon. The cry of "an escape!" sounded in
every quarter; the night, as we before mentioned,
was exceeding dark, and a number must have joined
in the pursuit. The Captain darted forward, and
was suddenly precipitated down a precipice; he
caught some loQse earth or brambles, in his descent,
which broke his falL Three of his1enemies also de-
scended, two he thinks were killed in the fall, and
the third was severely bruised. I1'e lost his sword in
the scramble, but, with a few loose stones, he soon
settled his adversary, which descended with him;
but then he heard a number of voices coming round,
he darted forward in an opposite direction, not
knowing whether, having now no weapon to defend
himself; he had not gone more than a f~w hundred
paces, when he found himself entangled in a mo-
1~26

/~

I
PU
A
%'
X

:5

C,

rassan(l not able to proceed much further, he worked
his way far as he could into some long se(lge or
weeds, when he gradually sunk till he was up to his
shoulders, and was in danger of sinking still deeper;
he could now distinctly hear voices in every direc-
tion, arid some very near him; at length th"ey died
away; he could, from his own l)osltlon, perceive n~
thing. After remaining in this state for above an
hour, he found himself so petrified with the cold,
that he with the greatest difficulty could move a
1*
limb; but, by throwing his body forward, he con-
tri' e(l to scramble into less deep water. He was
still fearful of leaving the morass till daylight, as he
~vcll knew a great reward would be given to that
Turk who should bring in the head of the command-
ing officer. At length day began to dawn, when he
ventured to creep or crawl out; he knew the relief
would soon arrive, and that the Turks would not be
hardy enough to stay for the xnornin~
ascended (he height, to view the spot ~ light. He
where his un-
fortunate comrades were to a man 4au~
his eyes had but just been         ~htered, and
moistened by the tear of
sensibility, when a robust tall Ottoman dragoon,
rushed upon him, with his sabre drawn, to cut him
down. ~Veak and faint as he must have been, after
such a night, he looked round him f~r some means
of defeuc'., and fortunately for him, he found a spear
king on the ground, which had belonged to one of
the 'i'urki~h cavalrv~ with this he was able to re-
~ive the charge of the Turk, by placir.g the end on
the ground, arid the point towards the horse's breast,
and falling fiat himself. The horse was desperately
wounded, and threw his rider. Captain Schemidt
seized this advantage, and while down, struggled to
wrest tie sword from his grasp, which he was fortu-
nate enough to do; but the other, being stron ~,
closed in, and threw him to the ground, he succeeJ~
ed in getting ~to his girdle, from which he drew a
dagger, and was about 'to plunge it into his breast,
when the Russian relief guard5 darted tbrward, and
1 ~7


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

K~ ~4~
II
P
If
1 4

SYI~IL AND OFFiCER,

cut the dragoon down. The variety of' emotions
which crowded on his mind, at this critical period,
ore rpowere(l him, and he sunk into a swoon, from
which he did not recover for a considerable time,
insomuch that he was thought to be no more. He
was immediately carried on a litter to the camp, and
in a few moments the whole army was out to wit
ness the sad catastrophe; yet there was no one per~
son alive but Captain Schemidt, who could tell the
story among all the Russians. On recovering from
his swoon he became delirious, a high fever ensued,
and for more than six weeks his life was despaired
of; but peculiar care was taken of him, that some
light might be thrown on this extraordinary busi-
ness. He lay in the hospital for near fifteen weeks
before he was able to be moved, he was then order-
ed to his native air, and was six months before he
was again able to join his regiment.
'rhe adventure became generally known at Pe~
tersbur~h and he was often, (as soon as he was
able,) sent for to the court by Catharine, who used to
make him recite the particulars, and as a reward
for his sufferings, as ivell as his courage on the occa-
sion, she created him Knight of the Golden Eagle,
with a handsome pension, and a promise of promo-
tion in her army, which shortly after took plade in
his own regiment. He soon set out to resume the
command, and was heartily welcomed by all the
officers. One day when in company with some of
his friends, the conversation turned on the Ides of
March and the Sybil, who had gained considerable
celebrity, as well as great gain by the affair; he was
resolved to go, and through joke, demand fro~ her
the before mentioned wager. On his approach l~, she
recognized him, and said, "Well, Captain, d~ yoti
now despise my power, do you still think I cannot
divine into future events: you have miraculously
escaped, that I could not foresee, but has not all the
rest been fulfilled." "Yes, mother," said he4 "but
where is my hamper of Tokay?" "That you shall
1~s

have," said she, "and the finest flavour too in all
the Ottoman dominions."
They departed, still doubting; but after dinner the
1'okay was introduced as coming from the old
witch; and never before had the very best judges
of that rare, delicious, and valuable wine, ever tast-
ed any so good. This led to some remarks on her
conduct-of the abundance~of cash she was always
supplied with-her occasional absence from the
camp-and her complete control over the soldiery.
All these remarks Captain Schemidt pondered in his
mind, and was resolved to watch her closely. He
found out she had in her particular confidence, the
orderly serjeant, who was in attendance on the ge-
neral commandant, on the fatal night of the 13th
of March.
lie remarked, that during her occasional absence
from the camp, some advantages were usually gain-
ed over the Russians. After one of these rencoun-
ters, Captain Schemidt communicated his observa-
tions to the general, who listened to them with at-
tention. It was resolved to secure the serjeant, and
to minutely search the place she occupied. This
being accomplished, he was put to the torture. He
confessed that this woman had bribed him, to give
information to the enemy, respecting the different
manouvres of the Russians on that Jay, and that she
had a number of others as confederates within the
camp-that she was a constant spy, and brought in-
telligence, and was well paid, by the Turkish gene-
ral, for any advantage they gained;-.that she wa0s
now plotting something new in the Ottoman camp,
and would return in a few days.
Immediately on her arrival, she was arrested and
put to the torture, when she confessed all. Captain
$chemidt interrogated her as to himself; she ~id, it
was she who planned the attack and ambuscade of
the 13th March-that she had bribed the mess man's
attendant to convey a certain drug into Captain
B-'s glass, which had the desired effect~~-she also
A9       1~9

I
4

i~.
14    ~
1'
f

II

{Aj


MARVELLOtS REPOSITORY                                 IRISH WAKE.

had a strong spice conveyed, by Captain C-'5
groom, into the posteriors of his horse, which ren-
dered him fiery, and unmanageable, and broke his
arm-and finally, out of revenge for your despising
my power, 1 had a large sum offered for every head
of your party, and a particular sum for your own,
and when the party came in, not finding your head,
among the restIhad the dragoon, selected from the
whole army, the bravest and stoutest man, sent back
with a command, if he did not bring in your head,
he should lose his own, and if he succeeded should
be promoted to high rank. The rest you know too
well. Shortly after, she was executed, with the
most of her associates; and was hung in chains as an
example to all traitors.

DESCRIPTION OF AN IRISH WAKE.

PADDY O'Connor, who was lately hanged at Tyburr
for a footpad robbery, was descended from1an ancient
family in the kingdom of Ireland, and ~*s he was a
worthy person whilst living, his generous countrymen
were determined to pay the highest honours to the re~
mains of the deceased. Donnol O'Neale, who was
the most particular friend of the late Paddy, now
summoned all his acquaintance upon this mournful
occasion; he very obligingly introduced them into a
cellar not very far from St. Giles'. When they had
descended about a dozen steps or so, they found
themselves in a subteraneous region, but fortunately
not uninhabited. On the right hand sat three old
bawds drinking whiskey, smoking' tobacco out of
two-inched pipes (by which means I believe their
noses were red,) and swearing and blasting between
every puff. One of the visitors was immediately sa-
lUtC(l b~y the most sober of the ladies; who kindly
otl~ered him a glassof the enlivening Nectar, and led
him up to the bed, exactly opposite the door where
150

II
'~i It

It

4,

IRISH WAKE.

Paddy was laid in state, and begged him to pray for
the repose of his shoul. He answered, he never
prayed, as he thought that was the proper business
of the parsons, and they were paid for it. His dul
cinea, however, burst out into the following excla- ~
nation: "Arrah! by Jesus, why did you die? It was
not for the want of milk, meal, or potatoes."
In a remote corner of the cellar were three dray-
men, six of his majesty's body guards, four sailors,
five haymakers, ten chairmen, and six evidence ma
kers, together with three bailiff's followers, who came
by turns to view the body and drink repose to Pad
dy's shoul; and to complete the group, they were at-
tended by .Jack Ketch's journeyman. The compa-
ny were much entertained with an old friend, Mr.
Edward M'Quirk,. who was swearing, that he could
carry a fare, hear mass, knock down a Middlesex
freeholder, murder a peace officer, and afterwards
receive a pension.
At the head of the bed, where the remains of Pad..
dy were placed, was the picture of the Virgin Mary,
on one side, and that of St. Patrick on the other
and at his feet was depicted, the devil and some of
his angels, with the blood running down their backs
occasioned by the flagellations which they had re-
ceived from the disciples of Kentigern. One was
swearing, a second counting his beads, a third drink-
ing whisky, a fourth evacuating that load with
which he had already overcharged himself' and
whilst the priest was making an assignation with
Catherine O'Reily, Jemmy Gahagan picked his
pocket of his watch and a green purse, contain-
ing a lock of St. Patrick's whiskers, esteemed an ef..
factual remedy for the tooth-ache. I could not help
taking notice of the priest, that whilst he was en-
gaged with his doxey, he often turned to the deceas-
ed, and repeated the words requiscal in pace.
'rhis was an entertainment too agreeable to last
long; about three in the morning, Mr. M'Quirk,
who had retired to rest in the garret, being either
151


4                        MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

I I
1~
I

THE ELDER BROTHER.

THE

ELDER BROTHER.

disturbedd in his sleep, l)y dreaming of Bi;entford and
the Old Bailey, or something else, he started up,
crying, Fire! Pire! It is impossible to describe the
confusion that ensued; the priest and his mistress
took to their heels; the sailors who had got into the
street Iirst, with the gallon pots in their hands, filled
them in the kennel, and poured the contents on the
chairrncn, who, in endeavouring to escape, had
wedged themselves in the stairs, and I know iiot
whether they might not have been suffocated, had
not a press gang arrived and conducted the tars to a
rendezvous: At that instant, a constable with a
dozen watchmen con(lUCted as many as they could
lay hold on to the Round-house, whilst, some who bid
themselves under the bed, as soon as they were gone,
escaped into the street, and left Paddy to repose
there 'till next day, when he was to he carried to
Pancrass.
A CERTAIN Lady in the North of Scotland, who
amused herself by superintending the agricultural
operations on her estate, was one day interrogating
her overseer, whether a field of oats, which they
were then examining, was ready for leading into the
barn-yard. "I think, madam, (said John, who lisp-
ed and stammered a good deal,) the sheaves are a
little wet in the a-a-res yet." "Fye, fye, John,"
said her Ladyship, "you ought never to use that
nasty word." "Fat sail I ca't then, madam?"
"You ought to say stubble-end." "Very well, ma-
dam, I'll mind nest time." The' lady went home,
desiring her grieve to fellow her, to receive some
farther orders. Having ascended one pair of stairs,
her ladyship called out, "Where are you, John?"
"I'm at your stubble-end madam."
182

Now, you must know,
This Dr. Crow
Was not of law, nor music, nor divinity;
lie was abstetric: but, the fact is,
N                    I 8~

CENTRICK in London noise, and London follies,
Proud Covent-garden blooms in smoky glory:
For Chairmen, Coffee-rooms, Piazzas, Dollies,
Cabbages, and Comedians, farn'd in story!
On this gay spot-upon a sober plan-
Dwelt a right regular, and staid, young man:
Much did he early h6urs, and quiet, love;
And was entitled, Mr. Isaac Shove.
An Orphan he: yet rich in expectations,
Which no body seemed likely to supplant-
From that prodigious bore, of all relations,
A fusty, chanting, stiff-rump'd, maiden aunt;
The wealthy Miss Lucretia Cloghorty,
Who had brought Isaac up, and own'd to forty!
Shove, on this maiden's will relied securely;
Who vow'd she ne'er would wed, to mar his riches'
Full often would she say, of man, demurely-
"I can't abide the filthy things in breeches!"
He had apartments up two pair of stairs;
On the first-floor lodged Dr. Crow,
The landlord was a torturer of hairs,
And made a great display of wigs, below~
From the Beau's brutus, to the parson's frizzle-
Over the door-way was his name; ~twas Twizzle.

K

M

133


MARV!~LLOUS REPoSIToJtIr.                                 TUE ELDER BROTHER.

* lie didn't in Lucina's turnpike practise;
He took bye-roads-reducing ladies' shapes,
Who had secur'd themselves from "leading apes,
But kept the reputation of virginity.
Crow had a roomy tenement of brick,
inclos'd with walls, one mile from Hyde-Park Corner
Fir-trees and yews, were planted round it thick:
No situation was forlorner!
Yet, notwithstanding tblks might scout it,
it suited qualurish spinsters, who fell sick,
And did not wish the world to know about It.
1-lere many a single gentlewoman came,
Pro tempore-~--full tender of her fame!
Who, for a while, took leave of friends in town-
"Business, forsooth, to Yorkshire called her down,
Too weighty to be settled by attorney!"
And, in a month, or six week's time, came back;
When ev'ry body cried-" Good lack!
How monstrous thin you'Ve grown, upon your journey ~"
The Doctor, knowing that a puff of scandal,
Would blow his private trade to tatters;
Dreaded to give the smallest handle,
To those who dabble in their neighbours' matters:
Therefore he wisely held it good,
To hide his practise from the neighbourhood-
And not to appear there as a resident;
But, merely one who casually went,
To see the ladies in the large brick house-
To lounge, and chat-not minding time a souse-
Like one to whom all business was quite foreign:
And, thus, he visited his female sick;
Who lay as thick,
Within his tenement of brick,
As rabbits in a warren,
Tie lodged in Covent-garden all the while;
And, if they sent in haste for his assistance,
He soon was with them-'twas no mighty distance-a
From the town's end, it was but bare a mile.
1~4

Now, Isaac Shove,
Living above
This Dr. Crow,
And knowing barber Twizzle liv'd below,
Thought it might be as well-
Hearing so many knocks, single and double-
To buy, at his own cost, a street-door bell,
And save confusion in the house, and trouble!
Whereby his (Isaac's) visitors might know,
Without long waiting in the dirt and drizzle,
To ring for him at once, and not to knock for Crow,
Or Twizzle.
Besides, he now began to feel,
The want of it was rather ungent~el:
For he had often thought it a disgrace,
To hear, while sitting in his room above,
Twizzle's shrill maid, in the first landing place,
Screaming--" A man below ~'ants Mister Shove!"
The bell was bought: the wire was made to steal
Round the dark staircase, like a tortured eel,
Twisting and twining.
The jemmy handle Twizzle's door-post graced:
And, just beneath, a brazen plate was placed,
Lacquer'd, and shining-
Graven whereon, in characters full clear,
And legible, did "Mr. Shove" appear;
And, furthermore, which you might read right well,
Was-" Please to ring the belL"
At half past ten, precisely, to a second,
Shove, ev'ry night, his supper ended;
And sipped his glass of negus, till hereckon'd,
By his stop-watch, exactly one more quarter.
Then, as exactly, he untied one garter;
A token 'twas, that he for bed intended.
I 3~


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

Yd, having still, a quarter good before him,
Lie leisurely undress'd before the sire:
Contriving, as the quarter did exi~ire,
To he as naked as his mother bore him~-~
Bating his shirt, and night-cap on his head.
Then, as the watchman bawl'd eleven,
Lie had one foot in bed;
More certainly, than cuckolds go to heav'n
Alas! what pity 'tis, that regularity,
Like Isaac Shove's, is such a rarity!
But there are swilling wights in London town,
Term'd, Jolly Dogs-Choice Spirits-alias, Swine;
Who pour, in midnight revel, bumpers down,
Making their throats a thoroughfare for Wine.
These spendt~tuifts, who life's pleasures thus outrun--
Dosing, with he ad-achs, till the afternoon-
Losing half men's regular estate of sun,
By borrowing too largely of the moon.
One of this kidney-Toby Tosspot bight-
Was coming from the Bedford, late at night:
And being Bacchi p/en us-full of wine-
Altho' he had a tolerable notion,
Of aiming' at progressive motion,
'Twas not direct-'twas serpentine.
He work'd, with sinuosities, along;
Like Monsieur Corkscrew, worming through a cork;
Not straight, like Corkscrew's proxy-stiff Don Prong-
A fork!
At length, with near four bottles in his pate,
He saw the moon shining on Shove's brnss plate-

When, reading-" Please to ring the bell;"
And being civil, beyond measure-
1' Ring it!" sass Toby-" very~ well!
I'll ring it with a deal of pleasure"
136

I

TIlE ELDER BP..OTIIER.

Toby, the kindest soul in all the town,
Gave it a jerk-that almost jerk 'd it down.
lie waited full two minutes; no one came:
lie Waite(l full two minutes more; and then,
Says Toby-" if lie's deaf, I'm not to blame!
I'll pull it for the gentleman again.''
But the first peal woke Isaac, in fright;
Who, quick as lightning popping up his head,
Sat on his head's antipodes, ~n bed-
I~ale as a parsnip-bolt upright.
At length he, wisely, to himself did say-
Calming his fears-
"Tush! 'tis some fool has rung, and ran away!"
When peal the second rattled in his ears.
Sho~rejump'd into the middle of the floor;
And, trembling at each breath of air that stirr'd,
He groped down stairs, and opened the street door,
While Toby was performing peal the third!
Isaac eyed Toby, fearfully askaunt;
~And saw he was a strapper-stout, and tall:
Then put this question-" Pray, Sir, what d'ye want?'
Says Toby-" I want nothing, Sir, at all."
"Want nothing?-Sir! you've pulled my bell, I vow,
As if you'd jerk it off the wire!"
Quoth Toby-gravely making him a bow-
"I pulled it, Sir, at your desire."
"At mine?"-" Yes, yours!-L hope I've done it well!
High time for bed, Sir!-I was hastenin gto it;
But, if you write up-" Please to ring the bell,"
Common politeness makes m~ stop and do it"

Isaac, now waxing wroth apace,
Slamm'd the street-door in Toby's face,
With all his might;
M2                   1~7

7

i 2


~flvi;TLorl5 TUTOS1TOWV~

And Tobv. U~- he rhiP it ~' ore
11-Ic W3S 3 djrtv SOVl ~'d &amp;iOlfl(Illiflg fliOTO
'Phafl delicacy sufFers IW' to ~~tjt~
A nd~ Jifti~ig up the knoekei  ga~ e ri ln~e1~
So leng mu loud, might have mmd I Ii~ (lead!
P~viz7Ie deelare~. hi~ home su~f a iul a shock,
Enough to shahe his lodgers out o~ bed.
robv. his rage thus vented in il~e rap
Went serpentimug home, to tahc his nap.
Tis no~ high time to let von know,
That the obstetric Dr. Crow.
Awoke. in the he~innin~ of this matter,
B~ Tobv '~ tintinuahular~ clatter-
And, knowintr thet the hell l)eloflg'd to Shove,
He listened in his bed, but did not move:
He only did ~
Sending to hell.
Shove and his bell.
Thav woudn let him close his eyes.
But, when he heard a thund'ring knock, says he~
That's.eertainlv a messea~er tor me
Somebody ill, in the Brick-house, no doubt!"
Then mutre4'd, hurrying on his dressing-gown-
I xish my ladies out of town,
Ctiose more convenient times for crying-out!"
Crow, in the dark, now reached the stair-case head;
Shov. in the dark. was coining up to bed.
A cornbiriatioii of ideas flocking
Upon tue perA.rariium of Crow-
Oecasior~d hv the has{v kxrockin~r,
Succeeded b~ a foot he he~trd be1&amp;w-~
He did as many P)li~F arc apt to do,'
Who argue iii the dark, antI hi coiifusi~rk;

'Cf,~P ic~ frcrr; th" hypt4hc~~i h'~ drew
A Fuic (Orc!,I~zr;rj:
~r;efturhn~ ~$hrre t(p he thr f~~r~~ri '%rit,
XVith an r"jr~~' frrui the Brz ~co'~roent ;
~Vhorr, flarb0r I 'A'WVh, ?orffrer of hair3,
I fu'1 rivilly )Af in,, ~ri4 bf~ ~
Ar Shor' 'prn~ ~bo' he ~jrj kmc~ ~ kept
1154 ( ,nrardr for pdi~ IC).J? i'Jf4hfy-.-
He eeiHr, 't help. rd c~v'rj c.t(~p ~
~runtinns end ~r'rrd4'rr; r~ hi~  'a~cl, aridih!y
For I nr'~ u,~r,~;U f~Jir~g~i you m f. irv~'i',
Not rriJy '~v~r~ roe-j!rriltij ri rY~;
But ~ (nrporraI a!~o -
flaying r~o o~hr irYmn2 trY~ a
A rlres~', lwyorA 311 4ourt, rrO~ ight arid airy;
It oeiiig then a fro~t in
When Shove W3~ (ie(C d07 ri ~ ~he Doctor aeard,
Being rrjurh nearer ~he ~ar fri~-
Just, here and there, a ra~4or-i vord.
Of the soldoqu;es that ~nove ~ dron.
~ut shortly, hy prr3 3u-~-l
To cont act rearer,
The Dorto:,          ~      *a:~ sllfl
Arid then the faz~enJ K za ~:~nc~ :au.~it-
Which Shove repea'ed wa~Iv, Kic~ he shi~r~i~
Damn Twzz~ ~ic:s&amp; aU :ania :~~e ~~ii2
And damn :he K ~ -W~ji,
From all such ~Ii2;~s li culin e :eipr~r~d -
Who :s K-C.u; c si.i:v--~~K. :~oiv~
.~r?
You hr' t!:'i: S rv~ c )ec --
}l~aring ~ ~nuVs 'xx-~ N xi Ori~, ~f~A1A)j~

p


MAItVEdATAOUS ttEPOS[TORY.

* Von be deliver d!--Conw, that's very good!''
Says Shove-" I will; so help me, Bob!''
Fello'v!'' cried Crow, " You're drunk with filthy boor;
A drunkard, fellow, is a brute's next neighbour!
But Miss Cloghorty's time was very near;
And, I suppoSe, Lucretia's now in labour..''
Zoundsi" bellows Sho"e, with rage and wonder, wild!
Why, then, my maiden aunt is big with chiId~t"
here was, at once, a sad discovery made!
Lucretia's frolic, now, was past a joke-
Shove, trembled for his fortune; Crow, his trade~
Both, both, saw ruin, by one fatal stroke!
But, with his aunt, when Isaac did discuss,
She husYd the matter up, by speaking thus-
"Sweet Isaac!" said Lueretia, "spare my fame!
Tho', for my babe, I feel as should a mother,
Your fortune will continue much the same;
For-keep the secret-you're his Elder Brother"'

ADAM AND HIS WIFE.

ADAM alone could not be easy,
So he must have a wife, an't please ye!
But how did he procure his wife,
To cheer his solitary life?
Why, from a rib cut off his side,
Was formed this necessary bride.
But how did he the pain beguile?
Pho! he slept sweetly all the while.
But when this rib was re-applied,
In woman's foun to Adam's side,
How then, L piay you, did it answer?
He never skpt so sweet again, Sir.
140

THE

FISHERMAN'S LAW SUIT.

B~ the side of' the sea, in a cottage obscure,
There liv'd an old fellow, narn'd Peter Boncceur,
Who was free to his neighbours, and good to the poor.
Catching fish was his trade;
And all people said,
That mischief to nothing but fish he designed:
To ev'ry thing else, he was candid and kind.
One day, as he went to the brink of the lake,
Persuading the fishes their dinners to take,
The last, he intended, they ever should make;
While his hooks lie employed, to their sorrow and woe,
A grunting he heard, in the waters below:
And, casting his eye to the bottom-for here,
We'll suppose that the water is perfectly clear--
He saw, on the bed of the liquid profound.
An unfortunate wight, who was drowning, or drowned.
That the man to the surface once more might ascend
He took up his pole with a hook at the end:
Thentoithe fell,
And managed so well,
That soon to the margin the carcase was drawn;
And who should it prove, but his old neighbour John.
Now, some how or other, it popp'd in his head,
That, in spite of his drowning, the man w~' t dead;
And, while he was thinking what means to devise,
That his friend might recover and open his eyes,
He saw, with vexation and sorrow, no doubt,
That, in lugging him up, he one eye had put out.
However, persuaded, by what he had heard,
That the man might be living, for aught that appeared'
To his cottage he took him, and there had him bled,
141

99*-


t~i N ~ ~A or '~ n t; '.t~oa V

Rulh'd. rclPd on a I ii-rel, and pi$ inio h'd~
~o, in lec~ 1 han a x~~h to hi~ prai~e hr' it ~a hi
~ in l(~F~~ than a ~ eeh * 1 he man ~ a~ n~ ~onnd,
sweepingng ibe loss i hv~ ox e, arid the ~vm~d~
Ai ii. in his lif~'. 1)0 had nC\ er been iii
Iiit ~vhen 1~hn liad grown able 10 Ii a'~ el hoitl
I-Ic t~. 1i ssd1~ (Ilatrlind ihal ~ exi' ~ ~vt~' pu1 ~nut
~4 11(1, foigei I jflt~ he 5(1 \ tOO hi'~ teiphho'ii had ~lorie ~
~erul of) to a ISVVuTh ~iid vlapjYd a ~ on
a1 K '41 rYilWh of he x a tie of ~ Ii ni he hal huvf
Thzit Po TnwI pa~ all ihe dMnat~e OIIII cost
A a41 it with that sen tC1IC(' he d ~d not cowtpI~
~~le vco'e he woald have his deolical eye!
k ha PftOi \\ ~5 Ve\d W( ri* j'd bonN to say;
Yet he urL'd whai he coold in a moderate w
DeelaL'a to the ~l ud~e, hx way of de1imee~
Thai the action was wvontTht V~ ii bout maI~ee prepense,
That hts ~T)5C1O1iCC ('ViO4'4I him tOY \~ hat 110 litlIl (301W,
~Pli fo:tmje. alone. was to lamet and. thai John
Might have ihoright himself happ~ " hen deal it was s~
-i  *J,~,1I(I~'~ 5tZ tLL ~~4AA (LIi ~  ~'I'~IL
I tJ~RL I1710 lOSS 01 an eve was a Selious
~ eertair~: and vet. hed ho bold to deriai'c~
That a rnar~ ~' ho can she~ but one e~ e m hts head,
~s better. tv tar. than a man that i~ dead.
answer to all the defendam 's line pleading;
Jotit Sate. he had never vet found, in his reading,
A. tax'.. or ~ c s~orn. or senator sage,
A people, o~ nation, in whatever age,
Permittm~ unpuflishd, by force or surprise,
One rierniiiour to put out nis ~~ext reighbour's eyes.
The lawyer~ and iud~es v ere all at a stand,
way to conciude on the ii~attcr in band;
Til} a na1f~witt~~J Iehow, xJ~o chance to be there,
Unuertoot; to uceide on ttxi~ we~!hiv afFair:
And ~Jr1CiC~, Oait '~OL (1001)1, in a 'W~O that'S SO I)lain?
Lbt- ~ruideu V rot and cull e":r do
ii fishu ~ v~ t1u~~paix~niV ri~"~ ;4taj u!-
7'iiai )~CLt~ itzaiiocvtod WILL zQ bttlo ~kilJ:
142

143

(lien, '0h ~e I, tf~!?tr~! ~'i C 0 ~ 'Or
A t'I jgtI 'H1~ ~ I ~ 70 jTdri ~be r?,~,' of ~
Well   w, iv, w~ L'r't~   iKi'      ~''~ ~
A rid if, rtP~r r"p'~-ift(f 'I rir,' ~V ~'o w7~4ro *
~t ft , ~',uri'1 , rid lr'?~rui ~   "r ~', 'o~r  07
'fleet Ptier l~o p ,'h'ri OO4 'yO ,/~, ~t ~Yf~
J~,et if, a f4~ r ',j'rcir~ '
ftc u1'1vn~ itt    it   C,
VVh'1, fh'tt, It lz. t5~t'' , V !.'4  00 ~0t04,
'1 fiat f'eior, f'air, iii,, O~t 0 ~'3i~~'  0'7i  '.~0~S
Afp~",Iy'd $'ita itt p if0iA~ 0 '~,
A it'I ~ ~ f~4~ y} fiJ~t. ,, 'C ~ ~ 00 ~~v:n
'I 8  ae'b'r' 0 /0(0     V ~( I    ~ ~' 7-ct 7 7lsv;J: .4~)
1 o think that a. fro  so',      'i-,'rp~, y, ~
And feely ',r'Ir0t *r5~ ~, 7, ~cy~4 ~ ~ ~,
John, fir4~ar; 4aa' ~ ,;~ a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Nor Wiulifu~ tr~ ir~   ~c; r,;      ',,, it
eeak 'U oat rJ toe r,~,,, - -, t. -
I' drool, !o~ 'or;             ;0;~u     rti~.  ~    mj~~
(,rowr ~ at ast, t .?~ A...~e
YJ;~ pea WiV' ~.. :~?, a:7 ma ~ ;K~ v i~ ~;
T.;a:~ neeer -.        ~U,        itt :air 1  i. tie
To N ri'ure :03 me, :~r      ~t~e      i~- ~
And er)ncIu(LJ    :i;a.s be-n   j'ie     :~  ~ur~
Toan risk the one lef:. an: :e ::: vne~:
Whi1~ Peter dec:i,!              17TL~  nmc
H~s neighbor ~y &amp; i~n.z~: z~ .~; ~ni ~ui


ATV1~1LO1YS T~t~po5tTOTt~.

7.1I1~ ~3TN1~1~U5~ MNP TRY~ SCUJA~.
A ~ of youths, too fond of missing,
That is, of one Sfli(l crime called l~issiiig
Could never let the girls alone;
For ever bi~y with their lips-.
Of Adam~s block two nice young chips,
As good t~r love as e'er were known
To expiate these kissing crimes,
Committed, Lord! a thousand ~imes,
The Priest enjoin'd them penance twenty night~
Each in his bed a human skull,
Cheek by jowl.
To try what good might be performed by frights.
In a few days the Sinbers met-
C~ Pierre, was'nt thee in a devilish sweat,
To sleep so near a dam'd old stinking head?
Mv senses all were nearly lost;
I dreamt of nothing but a ghost;
Egad I thought I should have di'd with dread.
"Well was not thine a di~maI night?
How did thy spirits bear the fright?"
"Whys very pleasantly, faith, answeredd Pierre;)
So far from seeing ghosts and hell,
I ne'er lik'd penance half so well:
And vet the head was all night at my car!"
"Why, how the duce is this, (quoth Paul,)
You mean to laugh at rue, that's all-
Dost take m~ for an ass, so very dull?"
"Then, to convince thee, Paul, (quoth Pierre,
A trifling whisper in thne ear-
I had a female body to my skull?'

144

L

MERCHANT OF VENICE.

was at Flor o ,of the family of the Seali,
a merchant whr,~e narrie was Bmondo, who had been
~~veral times to Alexandria a on other parts of F~7pt,
~nd all those long voyages which merchants ~ne-
rally lake with their cargoes. rfhi~ Bwrndo W2~5
rich, and bad three sons, and heingrm his death ted
calh~d his eldest and hjs ~econd ~on, and made his
will in their prcsenc~. ieavin~ those two heirs to ali
he possessed, but left nothing to the youngest. Th~
will being made, the younger. whose name was fj~
an~tto, went to his father, who lay in his he~. ann
" roy dear father, I wonder much at what ~on
have done, and at vo~ir not rernemberimz me in your
will." Ills father an;we:eL my Tha~ boy. ~iwre
no one of vo~ I love more than vourse'f, tbr this
~a~on I do not wi~h you toremak herr on z~e con~
rary, I intend you, when I am lead, to to Thmice
t a godfather of yours, whose name is XPsser An-
~aldo, who has not any objidro a, and has of~~a xv7:t-
!n to me to desire me to send v~m t3 atm~ and ~an
eM you, he is c~ne of the richest mer~haars amomz
tL Christians there. I t~~ cc'~ ~ is soon as
I am laid low, that you will ~ t~ him. jat ~r~seut
Urn with this letter. ail be sure. if you ~onduez
~u rself with proprie~~. you w;ll becotne a
man."   The s~n answered     father. I ant ~a~iv Zn
Ov   vo~t~"                      -. ~t~" Olifl
upea w~u~xtt n:s tirc~
CW'~51n~. 1 ~ atter a tew 7a~~ ~ -its scos a-
i:iitc ~uuIi his death. aol atd due oliior~ o
Wemc~ry. Ader a trw ciavs~ we two ue~t cOviec~
a~i(~d ialicitc', and thti~ ad  ~.c d r
N          ~

!~niimiv'v


THE MERCHANT OF VEMCE.

~iARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

ing along one morning before day-light, when Gia
netto espied a gulf, with a beautiful harbour, and ask
ed the captain the name of it, to which he made an-
swer, and said, "that place belongs to a noble widow
who has been the cause of the ruin of many gentle-
men." "How?" said Gianetto; "Sir," said the cap-
tain, "this is a most beaut~fal and enchanting lady,
who has established as a law in her domains, that
whoever lands there must lay with her, and if he
can pass the night without sleep, he is at liberty to
marry her, and then becomes master of the harbour,
and all the estate; whereas, if he does not, he loses
his cargo and every thing he has brought with him."
Gianetto paused awhile, then said, "you must man-
age how you can, but sail into that harbour." "Sir2'
said the captain, "think well on what you are say-
ing, for many gentleman has gone there who has
been driven away pennyless." "Do not concern
yourself about that, but do as I desire you," said Gia-
netto. Of course the thing was done, and on they
sailed, without their companions noticing the course
they had taken.
On the morning the news was spread that this fine
ship had reached the harbour, so that all the people
'~ame to see it: the lady was soon informed of it, and
sent for Gianetto, who immediately presented him-
self respectfully to her. The lady took him by the
hand, asked him who he was, whence he came, and
whether he knew the usage of the place? Gianetto
answered he did, and only came there in conse-
quence of this knowledge. A thousand times wel-
come, said the virtuous lady, and h'onoured and cxi-
tertained him nobly, sending for the barons, counts,
and knights, to welcome and amuse him. Gianetto's
manners delighted alt around him, and the day was
spent in dancing, singing, and festivity, by the court,
in honour of Gianetto, and one and all would have
been pleased to have him for their lord. Evening
coming on, the lady took him by the hand, and led
him into an apartment, saying, "methiiiks it seems
148

!          I

A

(

time to withdraw." "Madam," said Gianetto, "I am
at your command." Two young damsels came, the
one bringing wine in her hand, and the other some
sweetmeats. "I know," said the lady, "you must
be thirsty, therefore drink." Gianetto took some of
the sweetmeats, and drank some of the wine, which
had been prepared as a sleeping draught, but he
knew it not. He drank half a goblet, for it seemed
very pleasant to him; and then he soon undressed
and went to bed; no sooner had he laid down, than
he fell asleep; the lady laid herself down by the side
of the youth, who never woke till the next morning
about three o'clock.
The lady got up as soon as it was daylight, and om-
dered the ship to be unlad en, which she found contain-
ed a store of rich and good wares. It being now past
three, the lady's maid went into Gianetto's room, and
made him rise, and told him he might depart, for
that he had lost the ship, and all it contained; upon
this he felt quite ashamed, and he thought he had
certainly acted wrong. rrhe lady ordered a horse
and money to be given to him, and dismissed him,
and he departed overwhelmed with sorrow. He ar-
rived at Venice, but being ashamed, he would not go
home, but in the evening went to a friend, who won-
dering, said, "alasq Gianetto, what means this?"-
"My ship," said he, "dashed in the night against a
rock, and went to pieces; all was lost; some saved
themselves as well as they could; I caught fast hold
of a plank that brought me on shore, and have come
home by land, and here I am." Gianetto remaine(l
several days with his friend, who sometime after paid
a visit to Messer Ansa do, whom he found quite dis..
consolate. Ansaldo said, "I am in great apprehen-
sion that this son of mine is dead, or ill fi'om the voy-
age; the love I bear him is such, that I have no
peace or comfort from this fear." The young man
answered, "I can bring you news of him. He has
been shipwrecked, and lost every thing except his
life." "\Vell," said Messer Ansaldo, "heaven be
~24~

?


4

/

TUE MERCHANT OF VENICE.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
praised, provided he lives, I care not for any thing
that is lost; where is he?"--" He is at my house,"
replied the young man; and Ansaldo immediately
would go to him; and as soon as he saw him, he ran
to embrace him, saying, "my son, don't be ashamed
before me, for it is often the case~ that ships founder,
therefore do not fret, for since thou hast not suffered
any personal injury, I am at ease;" so saying, he
took him home, consoling him as much as he could
on the way.
The news of Gianetto's misfortune soon got wind,
and grieved all that knew him. It happened that a
little while after this, his companions returned from
Alexandria, both very rich, and on their arrival en-
quired for their friend Gianetto. They were no
sooner told the whole circumstance, than they ran
to him, and embracing him, said, "how camest tho'~
to leave us, and where didst thou go? for we never
could hear any thing of thee. W~e sailed back, to
and fro, but never could see, or hear where thou
~vast gone. Indeed we have been most melancholy
on our return, for we thought thou wast dead."
Gianetto answered, "a heavy gale arose that drove
my ship into a creek, right on a .~ock near land, and
I scarcely could save myself-all was lost !" This
was the excuse Gianetto gave in order to conceal
his silly conduct. They both were thankful that he
had escaped, and said, "next spring, withy heaven's
blessing, we will gain as much more as thou hast lost,
therefore let us be merry as usual, and give sorrow
to the wind." Yet Gianetto could not help think-
ing how he could return to the lady, saying, "I must
have her for my wife, or die for it." With such
thoughts he could tiot give way to mirth. Ansaldo.
therefore, often said to him, "do not fret, we have
still wherewithal to live at ease." "Sir," said Gi
anetto, "I imever can be happy if I do not make ano
ther voyage." Ansaldo hearing this, and that such
was his anxious wish, when the time came, he pro-
vided him with a ship laden with still more property
1 5(Y

than before, insomuch that he put on board almost
the whole of his possessions.
His companions, when their ships were stored, set
sail in company with Gianetto: as they were sailing,
Gianetto looked out with anxiety for ~he harbour of
his lady, which was called the port of the Lady Bel-
monte, and arriving one evening at the mouth of the
creek, Gianetto soon recognized it, and ordered the
ship to be steered into the harbour, so that his friends
did not perceive it.
The lady, on rising in the morning, looking to the
harbour, saw th~ ship, and the colours playing in the
wind, which recognizing, she called her woman, and
said, "dost thou know those colours?"-" Madam,"
said the waiting woman, "it seems the same ship
that brought that young man about a year ago, who
had such riches on board." "True," said the lady,
"J believe thou art right, and certainly this youth
must be 'downright in love with me, for I have never
seen any one return here again." "I," said the
maid, "never saw a more graceful or courteous fel-
low than he is." The lady sent several eqi~erries
and damsels to him, who paid him hom~~, and led
him joyfully to the castle, and into the presence of
the lady. When she saw him, she embraced him af-
fectionately, a~d he most respectfully saluted her.
All the nobles were invited to partake of the day's
pleasure in honour of Gianetto. They all admired
how well he led a dance, and the ladies were quite
charmed at the elegance of his person and manners,
and thought he must be the son of some great lord.
But the same thing happened again. He lost his
ship and all his property, and arrived at Venice with-
out a ducat.
In the evenim~ he went to his friend, who was
thunderstruck at sight of him. "Alas! what does
this mean?" said he. " My cursed ill-luck," said
Gianetto, "that I should ever have come into this
country." " Well rtiayest thou curse thy ill stars,"
said his friend "for thou hast rujijed poor Messer
151


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

q

THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.

Ansaldo, who was one of the richest Christian mer4
chants, and worst of all is the discredit."
Gianetto remained concealed several days at his
friend's house, without knowing what to say or
what to do, and was inclined to return to Florence,
without letting Messer Ansaldo know it; but after
a little reflection he bethought him he would go to
him, and did so.
When Messer Ansaldo saw him, he arose, and ran
to embrace him, and said, "welcome, my son."
Gianetto, weeping, embraced him; but when Ansal-
do had~heard the account, he said, "do not repine;
as I have got thee again, I am not downhearted;
there remains still enough for us to hold up, and be
comfortable; the o~ ean will sometimes take from the
one arid give to an~ her." The news, however, soon
spread itself in Venice, every one spoke of it, an~
grieved at the losses he had had, but Messer Ansal-
do was compelled to sell ~many possessions he had, to
pay ~he creditors who had furnished him with the
goods. It happened that those companions of Gia-
netto returned from Alexandria very rich, and on
their arrival at Venice, were informed of Gianetto's
situation, and how he had lost every thing, which
they very much wondered at, saying, "this is the
strangest thing that ever was heard of." However,
they went to Messer Ansaldo and Qianetto, and com-
forting him, said, "Signor, do not be disheartened,
we intend to go next year, and trade for you, for we
are partly the cause of these your losses, since it was
we who induced Gianetto to go with us in the first
instance; therefore be under no apprehension, and
whilst we have property, command it as your own."
Messed Ansaldo thanked them, and said that he had
still wherewith to live well. Gianetto, meanwhile,
dwelling night and day on the dismal prospect and
losses he had sustained, could not possibly conceal
his chagrin, the which Ansaldo perceiving, he asked
him what was the matter with him?-" I shall never
be happy, if I do not recover that which I have lost."
I ~2

-I--

4          k
I
I

C My son," replied Ansaldo, "I will not have thee
go again, because it is better that we rest quietly
with what little remains to us, than to run any more
risks." " I am fully resolved," said Gianetto, "to
do my utmost, and should be quite ashamed, and
think myself dishonourable if I did not, and remain-
ed in this situation."
Ansaldo, perceiving it was his fixed determination,
prepared to sell out whatever he had remaining, and
freight the youth another fine ship. As he was short
of ten thousand ducats, he went to a Jew and bor..
rowed the sum on the following conditions (having
no other security to give:) that if he did not return
the money within that midsummer-day twelvemonth,
the Jew might cut off one pound of flesh from any
part of his body; which the Jew accepting, Ansaldo
was relieved: the Jew took care to have this agree-
ment drawn up, and authenticated in all due form
before witnesses, with all the precaution that men
of business usually take in such matters; then count-
ed over the ten thousand ducats in gold to Messer
A.psaldo, who supplied the ship with every thing that
was requisite, and though the two last were beauti-
ful, yet this was much richer than either. The two
friends loaded theirs with full intention that the pro-
(luce should be for Gianetto.
XVhen the moment for their departure came, Mes-
ses Ansaldo said to Gianetto, "my son, thou art go-
ing, and thou knowest under what penalty I labour;
I do pray thee, that though any misfortune should
again happen to thee, that thou comes to me, and let
me behold thee ere I die; then shall I rest conten~*'~
"Messer Ansaldo," said the youth, "I shall do every
thing that will make you happy." Ansaldo gave
him his blessing, they took leave of each other, and
he embarked.
The two friends narrowly watched Gianetto's ship;
and he was carefully looking out for the port of Bel-
monte, and at last succeeded in ~)crsuading the cap-
~ain to strike into the said harbour during the night
153


t~d:

-THE MERCHANT O~ VENICE.

MARVELLO.~S REPOSITORY.
When the dawn appeared, the two friends lookert
about for Gianetto's ship, and, not seeing it, said,
"really this poor fellow is truly unfortunate." Not
knowing how to find him out, they agreed it were
safer to follow their voyage, seeing there were no
hopes of n~ meeting with him. The ship~being arrived
in the port, all came forth to see it, on hearing that
Giane~to had returned, and wondering very much at
it, said, "this n-inst be the son of some great lord, if
we reflect that he comes every year with such rich
cargoes, and such fine ships-.would to heaven he
were our lord." Thus was he courted by all the
barons and knights of that land; the lady was soon
informed that Gianetto had returned; she advanced
to the window, and beheld the beautiful ship, and
recognized the colours; crossing herself, she said,
"surely this is the great man who has so enriched
this country;" and she sent for him, and he went to
her; they embraced and saluted each other, and the
whole day was spent in joy; and to honour Gianetto,
a grand tilt was ordered; and Gianetto would also
be one among them, and did wonders by the e1egan~e
and activity of his person. So far did he excel, that
all the barons were most anxious that he should
p rove their lord. The usual time approaching, the
lady said, C(J thi4 it is fit we go to rest," and took
his hand to lead hi~ into the room, when one of the
lady's women, who was much grieved at Gianetto's
mischances, whispered at the threshold of the door, as
he was following the lady, and said, "pretend as if
you were drinking, but do not drink to-night." Gia-
netto heard the whisper and went in with the lady
"I know," said she, "you are thirsty, therefore, I
will have you drink before you go to rest." Two
beautiful creatures immediately entered, bringing
ivine and swectme4ts, and presented, as usual, the
Wine and cakes, and he said, "how could any one
abstain from drinking this wine, handed as it is by
two such beautiful maidens;" which saying made the
lady laugh; and Gianetto took the goblet, and, pre
1 ~4

I

tending to drink, he let the wine drop down int0 his
bosom. The lady, thinking he had drank it off, said
within herself, thou must return with another cargo,~
for this is lost to thee; but Gianetto went to bed, and
felt himself quite wakeful, and it seemed an age be~
fore the lady came to bed; and he kept saying to
himself, by the mass I have caught you now, fair
lady, you have reckoned this time without your host:
and as the lady delayed some time coming to bed, he
began to snore as if asleep; therefore, the lady said
to herself, this is all as it should be, and immediately
undressed, and laid herself down by Gianetto, who,
the moment she was under cover, showed he was
awake, and thus he remained the whole night. The
lady rose before morx~ing, and sent for all the barons,
knights, and citizens, to the council chamber, and
said to them, " Gianetto is your lord, therefore, re-
joice and make merry." This being spread abroad,
nothing was heard but the general cry of, "long live
our lord," and the ringing of bells, and sounds of
various instruments. Several barons who were ab-
sent from the castle were sent for to pay homage to
their lord, and a great rejoicing took place; and
Gianetto, when he came from his room, was knight-
ed, and placed in the seat of honour with the baton in
his hand, and hailed as sovereign lord; and when all
the nobility were arrived at court, he was married
to the lady amidst such festivity as can scarcely be
credited, for all the barons, knights, and gentry,
were invited to the tilts, the sham-fights, dances, mu.
sic, singing, and every thing that is usual on such
extraordinary occasions. Gianetto, being a noble-
spirited youth, began to bestow presents of rich silks,
and other things which he had brought, and took
upon himself a manly conduct; made ~himself
obeyed, and enforced the laws towards all his sub-
jects, and was enjoying all the pleasures and com-
forts, without once thinking of poor Ansaldo, who
hail pledged Firnself for ten thousand ducats to the
Jew. However, being one day looking out of thr~
155

n4


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

11

THE MERCHANT OF VR~ICE.

window with his lady, he saw a number of persons
carrying g small torches who were going with offer-
ings in great pomp. Gianetto sai(l to his bride,
"pray, lady, what means this?" the lady replied,
"that is a procession of mechanics who are going to
carry their offerings to the church of St. John, this
day being his festival :" this called to Gianetto's mind
the case of Ansaldo. He withdrew from the win-
dow, and heaved a deep sigh, and grew quite pale,
talkingg to and fro in the room, thinking of the cir-
cumstance. On the lady's asking him what was the
matter with him, Gianetto answered, "nothing."
The lady then began to consider him attentively:
"Certainly," said she, "something ails you, and
you wilf not own it;" and she coaxed him so much,
that at last Gianetto related to her how Messer An-
saldo had pledged himself to the amount of ten thou~
sand ducats; and this very day, said he, is the day
fixed, and I am distracted at the thought my poor
father should die on my account, for if to-day the
sum is not paid, he loses one pound of flesh cut off
from his body. The lady replied, "take horse di-
rectly, and go by land, which will be the quickest,
and take with you such attendants as you like, with
a hundred thousand ducats, and rest not till you ar-
rive at Venice, and, if he be not dead, do you en-
deavour to bring him here." The horn was quick-
ly blown; he mounted his steed, accompanied by
twenty attendants, arid, having taken money enough,
journeyed with speed to Venice. The Jew had
caused Messer Ai1saldo to be arrested, and wanted
to have the pound of flesh; upon which Ansaldo en-
treated him to delay his death for a few days, that,
in case Gianetto should come, he might see him.
The Jew said, "I am willing to grant what you ask
as to the delay, but were he to come a hundred times
over, I will have the pound of flesh from your body,
as agreed on ~n the note." Ansaldo answered that
he was satisfied. The news of this having spread
itself through Venice, several merchants agreed to
156

7

pay the money, but the .Jew would not consent, be.
ing netermine(l on his death, that he might say he
had been the death of the first and greatest Chris-
tian merchant. However, it happened that when
Gianetto started in great haste to come to Venice,
his lady followed close after him, dressed as a judge,
with two servants with her. Gianetto, when he ar-
rived at Venice, went directly to the Jew, and ern~
braced Messer Ansaldo; then said to the Jew, that
he wished to give him the money, and so much be-
side as he might require; the Jew replied that he
would not receive the money, since it was not paid
at the proper time; that he would have the pound
of flesh: and here was the great question; every one
was against the Jew, but still, as Venice was con~
sidered the seat of justice, and the Jew had it plain-
ly on his side, and in proper form, non's dared to
oppose him, but by entreaties' so that all the mer-
chants went to the Jew to beg and pray him to desist,
but as he was more obstinate, Gianetto offered him
twenty thousand, yet he would not consent;. thirty
thousand were then offered-forty thousand-fifty
thousand-till at last he was offered one hundred
thousand. " Look ye, sirs," said tlw Jew, "if you
were to offer me as many more ducats as are to be
found in Venice, I would not take them; on the con-
trary, I will abide by what the agreement states."
While they were thus arguing the point, the lady
arrived at Venice, dressed in the habit of a judge,
and alighted at an inn; the landlord asked one of the
attendants who the gentleman was. The servant,
who had been previously instructed in what he had to
say, replied, "this is a gentleman, a judge returning
from Bologna, where he has studied the law, and is
now going home." The landlord hearing this, paid
him -every attention; and~ when at table, lie said to
th~ landlord, " what is the government of your city,
landlord?" The landlord answered, "there is too
much law, sir." " How?" said the judge. " I will
tell you," rel)lied tl~e landlord; "there was a youth
0                   l57~

(4

f

1


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                 TILE MEtWI{ANT OF VENICI~.

that came here from Florence, whose name was
Gianetto; he went to his godfather, whose name is
Ansaldo; this youth was so genteel and well bred.
that he became the darling of all that knew him, but
never did a more unfortunate man walk this city;
three times did hi~ godfather freight ships to a great
amount, and every time he lost his all; so that at the
last, wanting money, Ansaldo borrowed ten thousand
ducats of a Jew, under a promise that if he did not
return them on St. John's day, in June to come, the
said Jew should have a right to take from his body
one pound of flesh, wherever he might choose; now,
this blessed youth iS retUrne(l, and has offered one
hundred thousand ducats, instead of the ten thou-
sand; and the scoundrel of a Jew will not take them;
all the best men in Venice have gone to entreat, but
to no purpose:' The judge said, "but this ques-
tion is easy to determine1" The host said, "if you
will take the task on yourself, and end this business,
so as to save the good man's life, you will acquire the
friendship and love of the most noble and virtuous
youth that ever was born, beside the blessing of
all the people in this city." The feigned judge
ordered it to be posted up through Venice, that if
any critical and extraordinary law-case should oc-
cur, that they might come to him and he would make
out a clear case. The news of this beingcarried to
Gianetto, that there had arrived a judge from Bo-
logna, who would determine any law question, Gia-
netto called on the Jew, and said to him, "let us go
to this said judge." XVeII said the Jew, "let us go;
but whatever he or any one may say or do, 1 will abide
by the written agreement." When they caine to
the judge, Gianetto did not recognize him, but she
knew him well. Gianetto and the Jew both related
theirown story; thejudge, after reading the agree-
ment, said to the Jew, "1 advise you to take the of-
fered hundred thousand ducats, and let this good man
free, wh will ever feel indebted to you:" to which
the Jew answered, "no, not 1, I will do no such a
1 ~

4

t

thing." "That is the best thing you can do." "No
no !" replied the Jew, "I'll do no such thing." Upon
this they all went to the court, where such matters
were brought to issue. The feigned judge taking
upon himself the defence of Ansaldo, said, "order
Ansaldo to come into court;" which being done, the
judge said, "do thou take now one pound of flesh
from him, where thou wilt, and go thy ways;" upon
which the Jew orderedhim to be stripped; took a
razor in his hand, which he had brought for the pur-
p~, whe r~\1 esser Gianetto turned to the judge and
said, ~' thi~ sir, was not what I entreated you would
do for me." "Make yourself easy," said the judge,
"he has not yet cut off the pound of flesh." In the
meanwhile the Jew wa~ eyeing Ansaldo all over to
see where he should cut. "Mind what you are
about," said the judge, "for, should you take more
or less than one pound, I'll have you hanged. I tell
thee, Jew, if thou spillest one single drop of blood
thou shalt die, for thy agreement does not mention
thou art to shed one drop of blood; moreover, it states
thou art to take one pound of flesh, neither more nor
less; therefore, if thou art wise, beware what thou
doest;" and he immediately sent for the executioner,
ordered the handcuffs and fetters to be brought to
him~ saying, '~ if I see one single drop of blood fall,
thy head shall be severed from thy body." The Jew
then began to quake, and Gianetto to leap with joy;
but, after some contention the Jew said, "your
worship has outwitted me~ therefore let me have the
hundred thousand ducats, and I will be satisfied."
"No," said the judge, I will have thee take the
pound of flesh, as the paper states, for I will not give
thee a stiver; thou should est, have taken them when
they were offered to thee." The Jew then said,
"ninety thousand;" thon, "eight'~ thousand;" but
still the judge was inflexible. "Let us give him
what he asks," said Gianetto, "provided he let him
free." "Let me alone," said the judge. The Jew
then said, "give me fifty thousand." "I would not
159

&amp;

4

2


MARVELLOUS REl'OSITORY.                         THE MERCHANT OF' VENICE.

give thee a brass farthing," said the judge. "Well
then," said the Jew, "give me my tei~i thousand dii-
cats, and a curse be with you all." "Hast thou not
heard me," said the judge, "I will not give thee a
doit; take thou the pound of flesh if thou wilt, if thou
wilt not, I'll make thee cancel the writing." All
present were overjoyed, and laughed at the Jew, in
seeing the biter so completely bit.
The Jew, finding he could not compass his mali~
cious intent, took the papers, and, being desperately
enraged, tore them to bits, and threw~he~n on the
ground. Thus was Messer Ansaldo liii rated and
conducted home by Gianetto; who immediately tak-
ing the one hundred thousand ducats, went to the
judge, and found him in his room ready to go home
again; upon which Messer Gianetto said to him,
"sir, you have rendered me the greatest service, and
done me the greatest kindness; therefore, I request
you to take this money along with you, for you have
well earned it." "I thank you kindly, Messer Gia-
nettQ," said the judge, " but I am not the least in
want of it; take it back with you, that your wife
may not say you have made a hard bargain." "Upon
my faith," said Gianetto, "if I were to spend four
times as much, she is so noble-minded, kind, and
generous, she would not in the least be displeased~
for she wished me to offer more, if needful." "How
do you feel towards her?" said the judge. " There
is not a woman on earth Icould love so much, she is
so chaste and as beautiful as nature could possibly
make her, and if you will oblige us so far, you will
come and see her. You will be charmed with her,
and the great politeness she will show you, and you
will then judge whether what I say is true or not."
"As to coming with you I cannot, for I have other
things to attended to, but since you say she is so be-
nevolent, when you see her, present my best respects
to her." "I will," said Gianetto, " but I wish you
to take some of this money;" and while he was speak-
ing, the judge perceived a ring on his finger, and
160

said, "I wish to have that ring, nor will I have any
thing else from you." Gianetto answered, "I am
agree able to it, yet I give it you somewhat unwilling..
ly, because it is the gift of my wife, and she desired I
would always wear it for her sake, and should she
notice I have it not, she will think I gave it to some
woman l~ am in love with, and I love her more~ than
myself." "I think," replied the judge, "that if she
loves you so truly, she will readily believe
when you tell her you gave it to me' butperhaps,
you yourself wish to give it away to some favourite
lady in Venice." "The love I bear her," said Gia-.
netto, "is such, that there is not the woman created
that I would prefer to her, so good, so beautiful is
she;" and so saying, he took the ring from his finger
and presented it to the judge, embracing him. "I
entreat you," said the latter, "to do me a favor."
"Mention it, I pray you," said Gianetto. "Do not
stay here, but return soon to your lady." "Indeed,"
said Gianetto, "it seems to me an age since I have
seen her;" and thereupon they parted. The judge
stept into the g&amp;idola, and went in peace. Gia..
netto treated all his acquaintance, made them pre-
sents, and kept open house; then took leave of all
his Venetian connexions, taking with him Messer
Ansaldo, and many of his former friends, and set off
for Belmorite. Most of those of both sexes he left
behind, grieved much at his departure, so nobly had
he behaved while with them. Now it happened that
the lady had arrived several days previous, and had
ordered great preparations to be made. The houses
were all hung with tapestry; several companies of
armed troops were posted here and there, anti when
Messier Gianetto and Ansaldo arrived, all the knights
and barons, with the rest of the court, went to meet
him, crying out, "long live our worthy lord !" and
when he reached Belmonte, the lady embraced An-
saldo, and shammed a little coolness towards Gia-
netto, whom still she loved so dearly. Great rejoic-
ings took place; tilting, sham fights, dancing, music,
0*        All      161

f ti


11

THE~

SLEEPING DRAUGhT.

MARVELLOUS REPOSiTORY.
and singing among the ladies and (lamseIs that were
present. Gianetto seeing his lady did not looks kind~
ly towards him as she was wont to do, went jnto his
own room and sent for her. "What isthe matter with
you?" Sai(l he. " There is no occasion for this oul.
war  show of tenderness," said the lady, "for I know
you have found out your old favourite lady." Gia-
netto began to exculpate himself. The lady said,
where is the ring I gave you ?" "Well," said Gia-
netto, "what I anticipated is come to l)ass; I sai(1, I
was sure you would be displeased, but I solemnly swear
to you, by all that is sacred, that I gave the ring to
the judge that eNtricated Ansaldo from his difficul-
ties)' "An&amp;Lswear," said she, "by all that I hold
most dear, that thou hast given it to a woman. I
know it well, and thou ~ughtest to be ashamed to per-
jure thyself thus." "May I die this moment said
Gianetto "if I do not tell thee true; and, besides, I
told the judge how it would turn out." "~,Fhou
might have stayed where thou wert, and have sent
Ansaldo here by hin~self, and enjoyed thyself, amon
thy damsels, for I hear they all wept at thy (l(~part-
ure." Messer Gianetto began to be greatly distress-
ed, and could not refrain from tears, say~ng~" thou
swearest what is not true, and what could not be."
The lady, however, seeing he was in great agitation,
and quite miserable, it went to her heart, and she ran
to embrace him, laughing immoderately, and show-
ing him the ring, and repeated to him every thing
he had said to the judge, and how she herself had
acted the part of the judge, and in what manner he
had given him the ring. Gianetto marvelled at
this account, but seeing it was all true, he began to
feel relieved, and extremely pleased, and going out
of the room, related the story to some of his friends,
and the adventure increased their mutual affection,
and thus they lived happily together, surrounded by
friends, and no~t forgetting to pay all kind attention
to Ansaldo.

THERE was in Siena, not many years ago, a young
man, the son of respectable parents, named Mar-
riotto Mignelli, who fell violently in love with a
young lady by name. Gianozza, the daughter of one
of the most respectable and worthy citizens, descend-
ed from the family of the Saraceni; in the course of
time his assiduity and constancy were returned by
the lady with equal ardour. They, for some time,
remained satisfied with the joys of reciprocal protes-
tations, and the sight of each other alone was a bless-
ing beyond their most ardent wishes,-but this last-
ed but a short time; in what manner they should
proceed to complete their views of happiness they
could riot devise, knowing the repulse they should
meet from the parents of the lady. At last Gianozza,
who was as prudent as she was handsome, resolved on
secretly being married to him, and thus, should they
he detected, to sanction their secret intrigue under
the cloak of a marriage. In order to accomplish this
object, they bribed an Augustin friar, by whose
means they were united. Having, for a time, enjoy
ed the fruits of this sly, and partly unlawful mar
riage, it happened that fortune, contrary to theim
expectations, turned all their joys to bitter sorrow
Marriotto one day coming to high words with a res-
p3ctable citizen, blows ensued, and Marriotto unfor-
tunately struck the man a ~vere blow with his stick
on the head, of which the unhappy man died a few
days after: Marriotto, therefore, carefully concealed
himself. As the sbirri, who were sent in quest of
him, could not find him, he was outlawed by the
1 6S


MARVELLOUS REPOSiTORY.

THE SLEEPING DRAUGHT.

'p

xiagistrates, and condemr ed to die if found within
zheir jurisdiction.
~~That were the sorrows of the loving pair, may
more easily be conceived ti an (lescribed; the bitter
tears that were shed at their ~)arting,* un4er 11w un
pression they never should meet again, would have
melted the heart of a stone; and, in their last cm
brace, they both seeme(l expiring in each oilier's
arms. At length Marriotto tried to comfort his
mournful bride, by intimating a hope that, by some
fortunate event, he might return to his country. He,
at last, determined not only to absent himself from
Tuscany, but to fly from Italy altogether, and go
over to Alexandria to an uncle, named Mignanelli,
he had there, a great merchant. After settling with
his wife on the best iuean~ of carrying on a corres-
pondence between them, the unhappy Coul)le parted
in tears. The distracted Marriotto made his way
to the nearest port, to set sail foi' Alexandria, after
leaving a letter forzhis brother, to inform him of the
whole secret. He most pressingly entreated him
carefully to watch over the safety of his dear Gia-
nozza, and to protect her. In due time he arrived
at Alexandria, was kindly receive(l by his uncle, and
related his misfortunes to him; Mignanelli was much
grieved, not so much at the murder of the man, as on
account of the offence given to the relations of the
lady by this secret union, and whose power was much
to be dreaded; but thinking it was useless to re-
1)roach him for things past, they endeavoured to quiet
each other's minds. The uncle initiated him in
trade, and having every month lettei~s constantly
from his beloved Gianozza, and now and then seeing
his brother, he was comparatively happy. In the
interim, the father of Gianozza being solicited and
importuned by many to marry his daughter, she con-
tinually objected to one, then to another; being at
last pressed by her father to choose a husband, and,
in such a manner, that it would Jiave been needless
to resist, she became almost distracted; to tell the
164

~

truth would have but added fuel to fire. In t1~is
dreadful situation, a thought struck her, not only
dangerous and cruel, but, perhaps, never yet heard
of. She told her father she was ready to obey his
commands, and immediately went to the friar Au
gustin, who had favoured their scheme, and cautious-
ly imparted to him her project, and entreated his
assistance; upon which he assumed that modest cau-
tion and timidity natural to the cloth, and, by some,
highly admired; and hamm'd and hah'd, but the en-
chanting powers of a well lined purse soon embold-
ened him, and he manfully entered into the scheme.
He hastened home and made up (for he was an
adept in the science) a draught, that not only would
send a person to sleep for three days, but would give
the real appearance of a corpse; having made up
this draught he sent it to the lady, with proper di-
rections. Gianozza wrote a letter to Marriotto, to
inform him of every particular the friar had done by
her express command; then swallowed the draught,
which, in a short time, thriw her into a stupor, and
she fell as if dead amidst her women; their cries soon
brought her father and all the family into the room;
the distracted old man sent for medical assistance,
but nothing could avail; she was to all appearance
dead, and the doctors were of opinion it was from
the gout that had seized the chest. The next day
and the succeeding one, she was carefully watch&amp;i,
to see if any signs of' life appeared, but none being
visible, to the great grief of her aged parent, arLd
amidst the tears and lamentations of friends and re~
nations, she was buried in the church of St. Augus-
tin. About midnight, the friar, assisted by one of
his trusty brethren, took her out of the coffin into his
room, and at the hour when the operatiowof th~
draught must be nearly over, they, by friction ~and
other means, restore~i her to life. Being completely
revived to sense arid feeling in a few days, dressed
in a friar's garment, she set tbrth with the Augustin
friar to port Pisano, where they found the galley
165


~&amp;RVELLOUS REP0SIT0R~.
Aquamorta, that was to touch at Alexandria in he~
voyage. Having taken their passage, they embark
ed forthwith, but as navigation is very precarious,
and merchant vessels are often detained by landing,
or freighting goods, contrary winds, and other casu-
allies, they did not arrive till some months later than
they expected. T he unfortunate Marriotto had,
however, received, by several merchants, letters from
Gorgano his brother, who anxious to keep u~~ the cor-
respondence he had promised, had written to him
every particular of the melancholy event, adding,
that the afflicted and broken-hearted old father had
died with grief. On the other hand, the vessel by
which Gianozza's letter had been sent was carrying
corn to Alexandria, and was taken by pirates. Hav-
ing no other information than his brother's, he con-
cluded it was all as stated in his letters. Reader,
if thou hast a heart, 17116u wilt easily picture to thy-
self the distraction of Marriotto; so overpowering
were his sorrows, that he determined not to outlive
hi~ misfortune, and in spite of his uncle's entreaties,
he resolved to return to Siena, to conceal himself in
~disguise, and there, where he thought his dear Gia-
nozza lay, to bathe her tomb with his tears, and die.
He embarked in a Venetian galley that was sailing
to Naples; being arrived there, he went by land into
Tuscany entered Siena unknown, in a pilgrim's dress,
and without going to any of his relations, went to the
church of St. Augustin, where his beloved had been
buried; there he wept and lamented, and would fain
have buried himself with her in the tomb. The fol-
lowing evening he provided himself~with an iron tool
and wrench, and had nearly succeeded in opening
the tomb, when the sexton, who was come to ring
the bell for midnight prayers, hearing a noise, tiast-
ened to the place, and found the unfortunate Mar-
riotto bard at his work; taking him to ~e a robber
of the tombs,. he hallowed lustily, "'slop thief slop
thief!" that all the fraternity were soon down into
the church, some in their night-caps, others ni their
166

THE SLEEPING DRAUGHT.
shirts; and although he was in tatters, he was imxne.
diately recognized to be Marriotto Mignelli. Here
he was kept fast till the morning. It was soon di-
1~111ge(l in Siena, and reaching the ears of the ma~i~
rates, they instantly sent the shirri to sieze him.
They brought him before the judge, and he had
scarcely felt the first torture, when he confessed~
rather than endure more torments, the cause of his
desperate resolution to return home. Although he
was universally pitied, and more particularly by the
fait' sex, who looked upon him as a phenomenon of
true love, and wept bitterly for his fate, yet the ma-
gistrate ordered that on the first execution day he
should be hung. Thus, the interposition of his friends
being unavailing, he. submitted to his fate. After
some months had elapsed, Gianozza, and her con-
ductor arrived, after great sufferings, at Alexandria,
enquirecl for NiccoloMignanelh, and having found
him, made herself known to him, and told him all her
misfortunes, and the purpose of her voyage. The
good uncle was petrified with amazement, and griev-
ed to the heart. After he had made her take her
usual woman's garments, and kindly treated the
friar, he then related to the distressed Gianozza how
Marriotto. led away by despair, had left him5 and
had gone back, without giving him the least intima-
tion, fully determined to die, and how much he had
grieved at his departure, knowing that such was his
fixed resolve. Reader, you will surely conceive that
this last misfortune outweighed every past suffering,
and almost overwhelmed the unfortunate widow.
After the bitterness of her sorrow was alleviated by
scorching tears, Niccolo advised that they should
both immediately take shipping, go to Siena, and
find out Marriotto, dead or alive, and use every
means to clear the honour of the lady. Having set-
tled some little business, he made her take men's
clothes, embarked her, and after a prosperous voy-
age they arrived at Leghorn, and went from thence
as speedily as they could, to a little estate near Siena,
167

Th


MARVE[1;OUS REPOSITORY.
which Niccolo possessed. IHaving enquired into
many particularsrt4hey were informed, to their very
great grief, that Marriotto had three days before
been executed. This fatal news was,.indeed, a last
stroke of cruel fortune. This was too much; tears
could no longer flow; death and despair were indeli-
bly tracdd in her countenace. Niccolo tried to com-
fort her, and at last determined, as secretly as possi-
ble, to place her in a convent, where, without mak-
ing her known to the abbess, she might be taken care
of. [n this he succeeded; but intense grief, which
totally deprived her of sleep and food, in a few days
relieved her from all her sorrows, and she expired
calling on her beloved Marriotto.

*e.***

PHILOSOPHER OUTWITTED.

A learned doctor being very busy in his study, a
little -girl came to ask him for some fire. ."Bat,"
says the dodtor, " you have nothing to take it in."-
As he was going to fetch something for that purpose,
the little girl stooped down at the fire-place, and
taking some cold ashes on one hand she put live eim-
hers on them with the other. The astonished doctor
threw down his books; saying, " with all my learn-
ing, I should never have found out that expedient."
168

ANNA:

A PR AG1VEiNT,
IN THE MANNER OF sTERNE.

SHTE was sitting, an' please your Honour,
at the door of a cottage-with two of the swee test~
babes, scarce highe rthanyour Honour's knee:-herX
eyes were fixed on the moon, which was at the full;
---she might be pale,-but- the moon, I think,
made her more so.-I do not know what was in her
countenance-but the moment I saw her, I could
have sat down, and wept with her.
She is bewildered, Trim,-quoth my
uncle Toby.--
Not so, an' please your Honour.-The night-
ingale was singing; and she said to it, while the
tears trickled fast down her cheeks--
-I could have kissed them away-but with-
out any bad meaning, (continued Trim,)-for, had
a whole battalion have dared to persecute her, I re-
ally believe, your Honour, I could have stood up
against them all !--
But what did she say to the nightingale, Trim. i-
" If you have cause to mourn," said she--
" how much more reason have I !"# then clasped
her little beauties to her bosom.---
My uncle Toby rubbed the tip of his forefinger
across each eye-it seemed to be one of those
movements, which strive to hide a feeling act under

* Shaw makes use of this idea, in his Ode to the Nightin-

P                169

I r---1I7----~

~Ii~
44
44

(

gale.


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

that of an indifferent one. I am certain I saw a tear
in the corner of his left eye-which he, somehow or
other, omitted to wipe away.
When she saw me, an' please your Ho~
nour-continued Trim-she pointed at me, then hid
her head on the necks of her little ones..-'-What
could be the meaning of that, Trim?-quoth my
uncle Toby-.
An' please your Honour, I went up to her, and
told her I was a friend,-that I could not bear
to see innocence, as she appeared to be, in distress,
without offering her succour,--that I was a soldier
.-and that the duty of a soldier was to protect the
unfortunate.-
That was gallantly said, Trim-quoth my uncle
Toby.
An' please your Honour-when I mentioned the
name of a soldier, she rose up her head.,-pointed at
my uniform,-shriek'd,-and sunk between her in-
fants, who crawled upon her, ~nd smiled An'
p lease your Honour, their smiles made my heart
bleed ;--..--.-----When she came to herself, she thank~
ed me for my care. I took out what little I had
in my pocket, and offered it to her
Thou art a generous soul, Trim,-quoth my
uncle Toby. -An' p lease your Honour.-quoth
Trim, bowing to my uncle Toby,-if ever I exercise
generosity-it is your Honour who has trained me
to it, and given me the example.
My uncle Toby seemed to feel that sensation-
which a modest consciousness of merit often colours
the cheek with.
Trim continued-What money can bring back
my poor EDWARD !-said she, sobbing;-he was kill-
ed in Flanders!
If it was not for the glory, Trim-quoth my uncle
roby-I could almost wish I had never been a sob
dier
He fell by the chance of war, an' please yow
Honour-quoth Trim.-
170

ANNA.

7

4

But war makes so many orphans and
widows, Trim !-quoth my uncle Toby, (siglw
- Then it is our duty to provide for them-re-
plied vrrim
We are deserter there, Trim--quoth my uncle
roby.
An' please your Honour, I told her that the money
would be of service to supply her children.-...
A little provided them-she replied-She hoped that
GOD would guard her sweet babes :-As for herself
she said, she had drank but a little water, and eaten
a dry crust, all that day;-it was well-she said,
with a previous smile-that Providence had shaped
her appetite to the means of gratifying it.----.-~.
An' please your Honour, I bade her be comforted-
GOD only knows-said 1-what turn a battle will
take-When an army of troubles are in move-
ment to attack us-it is our duty, my dear lass-said
1-to fortify ourselves in the best manner we can;
an(l if we are attacked, why, then, it is our duty to
make the best resistance we are able. I never
shall recover it-said she, wiping her eyes with her
apron, which was as white as the snow~She
was clean, an' please your Honour, amidst all her
Sorrows.
Why did he leave her to join the wars?-.
quoth my uncle Toby, in a tone of feeling regret-
Trim's cheekswere suffused with blushes-
H~~r He was kidn app'd, an' please your
'rhen he was murdered, Trim !-quoth my
uncle Toby, (wringing his hands.)-
- An' please your Honour-said Trim- I think
there cannot be grounds enough for making war--
when we cannot raise troops sufficient-without
such pitiful means. Every soldier, Trim,-
quoth my uncle Toby-should be a volunteer'
and in raising a corps, I would never receive a man
nto it, but who came into it sobei' :-A soldier
171

ii


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

should feel what he is going to fight for;-and he
should enter the lines with a warm heart, and ~
sound conscience.
If your Honour will give me leave--quoth Trim-I
will repeat the story as I recci~red it from poor ANNA,
for that is her name;-L told her mine was Trim.
-You look as if you pity me--said she-I will
tell you my story-An' that I do, and to my soul,
replied I. I' sat down with her at the door;
moon shone beautifully       I was hap
py and unhappy, an' please. your Honour,' at one
and the same time.
- How is that, Trim'?-quoth my uncle To
by.~ I felt, an' phase your Honour, as if
I loved her, and every thing about her; but
my heart was wrung at her affliction.
This little piece of ground-said she-Was well cul~
tivated;-it was the pride of EDXV ARD~ and the pride
of myself-it is a ruin now !-the weeds already
begin t6 cover it. We have been fed by our
neighbours, Mit. Trim-said she-as well as they
could afford it-ever since EDWARD was stolen from
me:-he was beloved by them all; they feel for
his wife and children: he was good nature;
and the artful took advantage of it;-it was his
feeling heart that won mine-I saw him hazard
his life, to save the nest of a sparrow I loved
him for it !-and although I was superior to him
in birth and education-(his heart was better than
riches, Mr. Trirn,)-I quitted my father's house;
and we were married. My father has nut
seen me from that time--he will not own me,-said
she, wiping her tears away. He must have a
hard heart-said I.-
- An' so he must, and please your Honour-
for a man that would not give his child the best
quarters-although it may have neglected a small
part of its duty-deserves to lie in the open field,
without straw to sleep on, or a tent to cover him.
172

I

I

ANNA,

-That is, it' he can sleep, '[rim !-quoth my uncle
Toby.-Ile might lie in the trenches for me,-
quoth Trim-though water covered him-He is
only fit for a drum-major, * an' please your Ho-
nour!
-- He would be too cruel for any post, Trim-.
he should he drill'd, and then drummed out of the
ranks of society ~-quoth my uncle Toby,-for he
willingly forgets his first duty, which is that of hu
If he will not capitulate with his own flesh
and blood, and please your Honour-quoth Trim-
how dreadful must be his surrender, when death
summons him !-nor his praying, nor his fasting, an'
l)lease your Honour, will avail him any thing then.
Continue the stox4y of Anna, Trim-quoth
my uncle Toby.
'[rim bow'd, and continued     We were seat-
ed at the door-said Anna-it was a fine sunshine
morning, one Sunday in last .July, drinking our
milk, and eating our bread and butter :--poor Ed..
ward had one child on 'his knee, and I had the other
on mine :-a soldier came by     (It was my dress,
an' please your Honour, that made her heart ache
so, when she first saw me,)     he seemed quite
fatigued-continued Anna-Edward asked him to
fare with us; he thanked us, and sat down and re-
fresh'd himself. ('Twas more than he deserved,
an' please your Honour, an' so you'll say,)-He
stai(l with us till the sun went down ;-he kissed my
poor unfortunates, and said he wished us well.-~
lie begged Edward to join him a little way, as he
didn't know the country-Ed ward went with him!
--------Here, an' please your Honour, she turned al-
most distracted, and wept bitterly !-the remeiv-
brance of it came so strongly across her. She
contin~hed-.----when dusk came, I prepared our supper
~ It is a part of the duty of this officer to attend flagellations,
and tally the strokes.
P2                  173

'4      4
4 1
* 1

178

1

P2


MARVELJ~.0US UEPOSITORY.

of radishes and cheese;-and flow my heart began
to misgive me,-I looked out of the (1001' every
minute-every breeze that made the leaves rustle,
I thought was ~his steps-O ! Mr. Trim, said she, I
cannot help IIIy (ICSj)ail' !-there di(1 I sit, with niy
wretched infants !~-I was distracted-I tore my hair
---anti when I reCei~Te(l this letter, a few days af-
ter, I was going to mur(ler these dear children, atul
mvseW !-a storm arose -I thought God was angry
with me, and I 1)rayed forgiveness for my wicked
ness. Here she felt her pocket, and took out
a letter :-it was so blistered, and rum p led, an'
please your Honour, it seemed as if it had 1)ecn
drenth'~I in the rain. It was with her tears,
Tn m-quoth my uncle 7Ioliv.
These were the words of the letter, an' please
your Honour:-
"~1t~ PEAR ANNA
"I have been kuinapp'a ny Serjeant Callous.
pray God to take care of you and my dear chil-
dren. My heart is almost br-oken,-----I hope I
shall see you again--if not in this life we may: meet
in the next.----Anna! I love you in my heart, and
shall till death, wherever I may be-
"Your unfortunate Husband,
thougI~ constant-
"EDWARD.
"There's a great many more been served the
same as me.-We don't know where we are going
to be sent to."
Trim,-quoth my uncle Toby, rising suddenly
from his chair-though I had but a5h~hng in the
world, this widow, and these orphans, should pal'-
take it !-I will go with you, Trim, to the very cot-
tage. It is four miles from us, an' please your
Honour,-quothTrim.---If it were fifty, '1'rim, repli-
ed my uncle rroby, I would reach it, though I had
nothing but my crutch to help me there.
174

ANNA,

Kind-hearted I'oby !-M ay the Being who made
thee benevolent, make thee happy !-And when
thine eyes are closed in (I~Mth, the flowers that
would spring from thy grave, shall ,~ be kept ha~
for want of moisture :-.-f he tea' s of the geri'ou~
an(l the brave shall water it
vi~ake earn of the twigs, an' please your
~4onour-said Trim, at the same time pushing thr-~rk
back with his stick, to let my uncle enter the cotta w-~
w'~ir the door of which a felled tree was lvin -
'l'r'irri followed.
rI~he~r found Anna feeding her children the
meal of charity had just been left by a gre~'-headeI
old rtian.
There is something about rustic benevolence,
more grateful to my feelings, than the contributions
of tliousantls towards raising an hospital. How
can I account for this ?-[s it that in the latter case
doubt hangs so heavy upon my affections, as to
Ward their motion? for vanity so often usury~s
the place of real humanity, that it would puzzle ~a-
gacitv herself to know which of the two were in ac-
tion.-Perhaps it is that simple and natural impulse
of' honesty, with which the rustic acts, that tunes my
frame to a more pleasing harmony. The gene~-
rosity of po1i.~hed hfe, mingles itself with such an in-
finitude of artful movements, that nature seems to
disown it.
Gentle rea(ler!-think not Anna lazy in her grief;
--she sewed for her poor, but kind-hearted neigh-
bours;-the tears of sorrow and of gratitude often
followed her needle.~When Trim entered, she
immediately remembered hiuti. You are Mr.
Trim,-said Anna ,---who pitied my misfortunes, as
I last night told you my story.
Yes, Anna!-replied Trim. (with a lock of
generous sy mpathy)-and shall, as long as I have a
head to remember, and a heart to feel. -
E~ery one who knows your story, Anna-ciuotn
my uncle Toby, gently taking her by the hand, and
115

7-

U
.1


MAR1Tr~Lots REPOSITORY.

Jr

O

A NNA.

alternately patting the cheeks of her childrcn;-~
every OflC who knows your story, Anna, must feel
tor on.
Sergeant (Dallous,---said Anna, with a look of me-
lancholy certainty,--k new how cruel he was acting,
-but he did not feel
---Feeling has nothing to (10 with his commission,
Ann a,-said my uncle Toby.
Then he ha~ no duty to 1)eriorrfl in this world-
(p10th rrin). And I should think, your 1-lonour,
we might very ~vell dispense with his post
So do I, Trim, said my uncle Toby.
I did not inform your Honour-said r[ri1n~f the
letter that Anna received from Flanders.
Poor Anna trembled       the stream of sorrow
was not dried up -she wiped the tear from her
cheek-another came-she WipC(l that away too;
~-still another supplied its place. Surely
such perseverence argues some right, real or sup-
posed. She took a letter from her bosom-that
was not the one !-she kissed and lodged it there
again. She then took the other from her pock.
et. and handed it to trim.-The corporal, with
due military obedience, raised his right hand, plac-
ing the back of it, so as to be rather above parallel
with his forehead, and with the left, delivered the
letter to my uncle Toby.
______ At the time the old man entered, to bring
his contribution towards the subsistence of Anna
and her children, Anna was weeping over the fatal
letter she had received from Edward.
rrhere are moments when grief is so bashful,
that she loves, not only to hide her tears, but even
the very cause of them; this was one of those
rnoments.----As the old man entered, she hastily
dried her eyes, and as hastily deposited the letter iii
herbosom.
The following was the letter from Flanders:
176

"Dear Anna!
I am sorry to Write you bad news-indeed
I am !---Flward received two shots in ~yesterday~
I-_________
engagerrtent.--.--Poor fellow. A'e laid ma
ny a ~night in the same tent !---~We had a great re-
gar(l fd~ each other, for we partly shared the same
fate. I was kidnapped as well as him.~-The
loss of me has broken an aged mother's heart.-
J maintained her once !-~-She perPshed with grir~f
and hunger.-
"how many a night have Edward and myself shed
tears, instead of being asleep, and fretted on our
straw !-JJIe has often told me how happy y&amp;u Ii;-
ed together, and what sweet little children ~ou had.
I Thall never see them again, .James!" h6d say.
then turn his head from me, and weep like a child
-.~"I wish I had been killed instead of him! He
bade me send to you, the enclosed little locket, which
you gave him, (as he told me) for his kindness 3
the sparrow. He ga~ e it to roe just before they
dressed his wounds; about eight hours after, he
(lied! Had the Sergeant been as kind to Ed-
ward, as Edward was to a bird-this would&amp;r hax~e
been! What a shame! They look more
cool here, in killing men, and seeing blood shed.-
than we do in the country when we kill the insects
that blight our trees.~.~I never thought that m~a
could be so cruel, Anna~-jf ever I return. 1A
maintain you and ~XtL children, instead of niv urn-
Your unfortunate friend,
JAMES.
"If Me great folks cere to ftei (chat we fee'L~
(huj wouldn't be so ready to make wars,
Before my unele Tobv had hali' read the letter.
he went to the door to finish it. Anna1 said he
t~ h~~dt~ has sorrows euouLrh of her owu,-witlrnat
cing mine too!
Ge'wroiis 'roby !-

*


IIARVELLOUS RiU'OSIT0lil'.

I.

ANNA.

Tell me, Anna,-said my uncle Toby, in a h no
of the sweetest sympathy that ever hung on the lips
of humanity,-tell inc Anna, how can I make thee
forget thy troubles? I never shall forget
theni !-said Anna, clasping her hands togethet'-.
hut I shall remember your kindness, and Mr. Trim's
as long as I live! -
Had nature 1)laced speech in her heart, she could
not have spoken with more sincerity.
The looks of Trim, and of my uncle Tohy, ac~
knoiviedged it and answered her; " Thy
thanks have cancelled the obligation that thou
owedst unto us,-if fellow feeling, which we natu~
rally owe to each other, may be thus accounted an
obligation."
______ Give me the other letter, Anna, said my
uncle Toby, in the modulation of tenderness,-I
have a use'for it-and I hope for thy happiness.
Anna drew the letter slowly from her bosom,-
it was a hard trial! it was parting with the dear-
est]con)panion she had, except her children:
but gratitude whispered in her ear-" Thy bene-
factor asks it !" Here it is-said Anna, with
the most patient sweetness.
My uncle Toby folded up the letters in a blank
covers which he had prepared before he set out;
-it was his intention, to have sent the one that
Trim had repeated to him, to Anna's father.-
lie thought there was strength sufficient in that;
but such a reinforcement as the. one from
Flanders!-aud the expedition to be conducted
by1   m, too !-it couldn't fail.--
not advance a line-said my uncle Toby, as
he in closed the letters-there. is force enough-
quoth he,-to take the strongest fortress that was
ever garrisoned by anger or revenge.   I'll not
write a word in it!
Hero, Anna !-continued my uncle Toby, with as
much generous and military warmth, as if he were
planning the relief of some important post,-be of
17S

7-

good cheer, my dear Jass!-the day may be oers
-direct this, in your own handwriting to your
father.
Trim took a pen from a little case, which
he drew from his pocket, and, dipping it in the ink,
gave it. to Anna.-~--Arina took the pen-her
lips grew pale-her hand trembled:-Tie will
not open it !-said she, sighing (lCeply;-he~knAws
my writing too well !-
As she finished the direction, a drop-as (:lear and
spotless as the eye of innocence ever shed-fell on
it;-z-~.-it would have done honour to the brightest
page of mercy. But alas !-it was the consecra-
tion of worthlessness; for the tear of virtuous
dejection mingled with the name of a-Fathe~.
and an enemy!
Unnatural union!
Trim shall take it!-said my uncle Tohy, adJre~s-
ing himself to Anna-he's a kind soul, an(l will act
for yo~1 as a brother;--arid if we are deiarecl,
Anna,-I will be as a father to you, and to your chil-
dren;-..-they shall have my bowling-green to
gambol in. And when they look around, and
see my fortifications,--which may remind thv~m oP
the means by which they ldst their father,-they
may then look up with a grateful countenance, ~T
and thank the Being of Beings, who has sent Z'~ei~
another in his stead.-.-------Trim shall take it !-
An' please your Honour-said Trim-he
cannot hold out long!
Tell him, Tnim-quoth my uncle Toby-.
that I a~i an old soldier, who received a wound,
What !-exclaimed Anna, with a look of
frantic pity-and were you kidnapped too?--
No, my poor lass !-replied my uncle Toby
-I went willingly to the wars.     The profess~
sion of' a soldier is an honourable one-when it is
honourably used to resist oppression, not sup-
port it.-it is meant as a shield, to cover those who
are not able to protect themselves.- -Tell him-
A .9


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                        A 1~NAE

continued my uncle Toby, addressing himself to
Trim-that my wound prevents my hazarding fa~
tigue, or I should have had the honour of waiting on
him inyself.-But first attend me to the inn, Trim,
where I will wait thy return.-
The landlord of Anna's cottage, was, fortunately,
unlike the common run of those beings:-she owed
her rent ;-she was welcome to owe it!--
My uncle Toby, at parting, tepderly kissed the
children;-the tears were in his eyes. He
gave Anna-first his hand, and then his purse:-
she received them both with that timid modesty,-.
which a delicate mind commonly accepts with.
Anna locked the door of her cottage-she fled
to her landlord-and immediately paid her rent.
anna was honest, too, amidst all her sorrows.-
_______ Surely, with all these virtues, her father
will forgive her I-
______ Leave we Trim, entered on his new corn-
niission.-
-- My uncleToby was now seated at the
fire-side, with his pipe in his mouth.-T wish-
said he, in a tone of feeling impatience-4 wish
Trim was returned.--At that moment the door
opened, and Trim entered.
______ My uncle Toby started up from his chair
-----A capitulation, rrrim ?-
-~ An' please your Honour-replied Trim, in a
firm tone of voice-you may starve him out
sooner.
Had my uncle Toby, at the head of a brave le-
gion, been totally defeated, he could not have look-
ed more sorrowful:-the pipe droppedetweefl
his fingers, and the tobacco fell from it to the
ground.
____ An' please your Honour-said Trim-when
I saw him-I couldn't speak to him.-I didn't
like his countenance-but I gave him the packet.
~He looked at the direction-then at me-
then at the direction again..~--'------" This is from

'I
-4

* Anna !"-said he, frowning. Then it's from a.~
honest a soul-said I-as any in his Majesty's three
kingdoms. He looked as black as gunpowder
at me, your Honour,-and then read the 1 etters.-.
"Served him right !"-said he.-1 suppose, your
Honour, he meant his being kidnapped first, and
killed afterwards,-" let her starve!"
- Describe his person, Trim,-quoth my uncle
Toby. Trim bowed. Why, then, an' please
your Honour-he has as forbidding a countenance
as you would see in the face of a ruffian;-.-his
cheeks worn,-his forehead cloudy and wrinkled,
---his body wasted-.------
-- It is his conscience that preys upon him,
Trim,-quoth my uncle rI~oby
- An' please your Honour-replied Trim-I do
not think he has one;-he looks like one of those
soldiers who doesn't fight for the sake of a good
cause, your Honour,-but for the plunder he ex-
pects afterwards. His hair is~a1most white.
His actions are a disgrace to his head,
Trim !-said my uncle Toby.
An' please your Honour-quoth Trim-he has no
more feeling in his heart than a bullet.
-- Then we must be fathers to the father-
Iess, Trim-quoth my uncle Toby. I am sorry
you returned his fire, Trim !-it is noble to be a
faithful ally-but it is wise to lie a peaceable one
also.-
At this moment a messenger entered the room.-
It was from Anna's father;-he had burst a blood
vessel, in the violence of his passion, which continu-
ed afte~' Trim had left him He wished to see
Anna, and the corporal.-I called for Anna-said
the messenger, and she directed me here. Her
father wishes to see her, and the soldier he offended.
-----------I fear he will not be long in this world !--
Advance, Trim,-quoth my uncle Toby-and
give all the succour you are able. An' please
your Honour-said Trim-I pity him now!
Q                   ISI

df

11

ANNA,

ja


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

Trim, though fatigued, remembered he was going
upon duty;'-his knee pained him,-but the light-
ness of his conscience made his steps easy !-
As Trim departed, my uncle Toby and he ex-
changed something like a congratulatory look.-
rhey had made overtures for peace, but were re~
fused; the enemy to sue in turn-it was glo-
rious !-But my uncle Toby and Trim loved peace
too sincerely to trifle with the feelings of the enemy.
My uncle Toby now filled another pipe.--Sus-
pense lengthened the pauses between each whiff,-
while fancy painted to his imagination, Trim enter-
ing-the olive-branch and the laurel budding on his
brow-
- There was something of an April cast in the
countenance of my uncle Toby;-for, although a
sunshine settled on it, still a few ~iight clouds kept
continually passing it: these were but thin
shades of uncertainty crossing hope.
The sun was now going down.-As the day
beam waned, my uncle Toby's impatience increas-
ed; his eves were ever and anon fixed on the
lock of the door. He rose up-walked-sat down
-rose up---went to the windoiv;-and it was not
till the ruddy light was sunk half way in the bowl
of his second pipe, that rp rim returned.--
XAThen Trim entered, there was such an expres-.
sive melancholy pictured on his visage,-that had
cheerfulness met him in her way, the smile had fled
from her cheek, and she had become the sister of sor-
row!
My uncle Toby immediately rose from his chair.
*     What! Trim-~~~quoth he, in a low tone of mo-
notonous despondency--Have we lost the day again?
An' please your Honour-replied Trim-I
called for Anna, as the messengerr directed me.-
We took her and her sweet little babes with us;-
and when we reached her father's door, the first ac
count we received, from an old female housekeeper
was- he was dead!
l8~

I

ANNA.

7

- An' please your Honour, poor Anna sunk on
the threshold. When we recovered 'her, she
would see her father-she flew to his bed ;-the
face of her father, an' please your Honour, was the
face of a stranger !-she threw her arms round his
neck, and wetted his cheeks with her tea rs.-You
cannot push me from you now!-said she, clinging
to him-and turning back her head, as if she feared
being taken from him. An' please your Honour
-she kissed his cold lips, as if she were struck with
mad ness.
Anna will turn melancholy!-quoth my uncle
Toby, pressing his hands together.
-            Consider, your Honour,-said Trim
-she is delicate, and her misfortunes are too much
for her An' please your Honour, his will was
lying by his side; perhaps he intended to alter it
in Anna's favour-~-----but fate was against her.
Is she unfortunate there, too, Trim?-quoth my
uncle Toby.--Poor Anna!
Ti'im-continued my uncle Toby) sighing d~eply~
-it is our duty-both as soldiers and men-to re-
lieve the misfortunes of this poor lass;-for she has
been undone by the unfeeling cruelly of a father,-
and the perfidious and unwarrantable treachery of
the arm!/!
My uncle Toby blushed at his last observation,
and Trim's cheek answered his.
Wretched Anna !-thy virtues deserved a better
fate~- But my uncle Toby will act as a father
to you, and to your children; and Trim will be his
auxiliary. The heavier thy sorrows, the great-
er shall be their efforts to preserve the&amp;-And if
the cold unfeeling world should slight thee,-which
thou mayest expect;-for fortune has trampled on
thee, and a parent given the example to desert thee!
-my uncle rroby and Trim shall soften thy distress-
es, by redoubling their kindness !-~-
Dear generosity !--gratitude shall walk by thy
side,-that when thou slippest she may support thee
iSS


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                 THE WHALE.

~..-and if the path be too rugged for thy feet, which
misfortune may have robbed of their defence,.-~-v
gratitude, with a hearty willingness and dewy eye,
rernembeving the p ast,-shall stoop down-arid,
taking off the san a s rom her feet, fasten them on

AN ACCOUNT OF THE GREENLAND WHALE.

THE whale, when full grown, is from 50 to 65 feet
in length, and from SO to 40 in circumference, im-
mediately before the fins.* It is thickest a little be-
hind the fins, and from thence gradually tapers
towards the tail, and slightly towards the neck. It
is cylindrical from the neck until near about the
junction of the tail and body, where it becomes
ridged.
The head has a triangular shape. The bones of
the head are very porous, and full of a fine kind of
oil. When the oil is drained out, the bone is so
light as to swim in water. The jaw bones, the most
striking portions of the head are from 20 to 25 feet
in length, are curved, and the space between them
is 9 or 10 feet, by IS or 20. They give shape to the
under part of the head, which is almost perfectly
flat, and is about 20 feet in length, by 12 in breadth.
The tongue is of great size, and yields a ton or
more of oil. The lips, which are at right angles to
the flat part of the base of the head, are firm and
hard, and yield about two tons of oil.
~ It is said, that the whale was formerly much larger than~ it
is at present, being sometimes 100 or 120 feet long: but the ac-
curacy of this statement is to be questioned; for the largest I
ever heard of being caught did not exceed 70 feet in length; and
this was reckoned a very uncommon individual. Of about 200.
which I have seen taken, not one measured 65 feet in length, al.
houg1~ many of them were fu1l grown.
154

1~,   V

To the upper jaw is attached the substance call-
ed whalebone, which is straight in some individuals,
and in others convex. The lamina~, or blades, are
not all of equal length; neither are the largest exact-
lv in the mifidle of the series, but somewhat nearer
the throat; from this point they before gradually
shorter each way. In each side of the mouth are
about ~00 laniina~ of whalebone. They are no~
j)erIectly flat; for besides the longitudinal curva-
ture alarea(]y mentioned, they are curved transverse-
hr. TI largest lamin~e are frQm ten to fourteen feet
in length, very rarely fifteen feet in length. The
1)readth of the largest, at the thick ends, or where
they are attached to the jaw, is about a Ibot. The
Greenland fishers estimate the size of the whale~by
the length of the whalebone: where the whalebone
is six feet long, the whale is said to be a size fish. In
suckers, or young whales, still under the protection
of the mother, the whalebone is only a few inches
long. The whalebone is immediately covered by
the two under lips, the edges of which, when the
mouth is shut, overlap the upper part, in a squa-
mous manner.
On the upper part of the head, there is a double
oj)ening, called the spout-holes, or blow-holes. Their
external orifices are like two slits, which donot l~
parallel, but form an acute angle with each other.
Through these openings the animal breathes.
The eyes are very small, not larger than those of
an ox; yet the whale appears to be quick of sight.
rihey are situated about a foot above where the
upper and under lips join.
In the whale, the sense of hearing seems to be
rather obtuse.
The throat is so narrow, as scarcely to admit a
hen's egg.
The fins are from 4 to 5 feet broad, and S or 10
"ect long, and seem only to be used in bearingoff
their young, in turning, and giving a direction to
the velocity produced by the tail,
lSj

THE WHALE.

4
7


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

tkb
4,,
'F"
'I
"V
Ii;"
i.HI

THE. WHALE.

The tail is horizontal' from S~0 to 30 feet in
breadth, indented in the middle, and the two lobes
pointed and turned outwards. In it lies the whole
strength of the animal. By means of the tail, the
whale advances itself in the water, with greater or
less rapidity: if the motion is slow, the tail cuts the
water obliquely, like forcing a boat forward by the
operation of skulling; but if the motion is very rapid,
it is effected by an undulating mcition of the rump.
The skin in some whales is smooth and shining;
in others, it is furrowed, like the water-lines in laid
paper, but coarser..
The colour is black, grey, and white, and a tinge
of yellow about the lower parts of the head. The
back, upper part of the head, most of the belly, the
fins, tail, and part of the under jaw, are deep black.
The fore part of the under jaw, and a little of the
belly, are white, and the junction of the tail with the
body, grey. Such are the common colours of the
adult whale. I have seen piebald whales. Such
whales as are below size, are almost entirely of a
blueish-black colour. The skin of suckers is of
a pale blaeish colour. The cuticle, or scarf-skin, is
no thicker than parchment; the trUe skin is from
three-fourths to an inch in thickness all over the
body.
Immediately beneath the skin lies the blubber, or
fat, from 10 to ~i0 inches in thickness, varying in
different parts of' the body, as well as in different
individuals. The colour, also, is not always the
same, being white, red, and yellow; and it also iTa-
ries in. denseness. It is principally for the blubber
that the Greenland fishery is carried on. It is cut
from the body in large lumps, and carried on board
the ship, and then cut into smaller pieces. The
fleshy parts and skinconnected with the blubber, are,
next separated from it, and it is again cut into such
pieces as will admit of its being passed into casks by
the bun g-holc, which is only three or four inches in
diameter. In these casks it is conveyed home
186

*jJ

''1
I ~
~ ~
'A
L
I, ,~,
'1

t

where it is boiled in vessels capable of containing
from three to six tons, for the purpose of extracting
the oil from the fritters, which are tend inous fibres,
running in various directions, and containing the
oil, or rather connecting together the cellular sub-
stance which contains it. These fibres are finest
next the skin, thinnest in the middle, and coarsest
near the flesh.
The blubber of a sucker, when very young, fre-
quently contains litde or no oil, but only a kind of
milky fluid; in which case, when the animal is de.
proved of life, the body sinks to the bottom, as also
does the blubber when separated from it; while the
body and blubber of larger individuals always swim.
The flesh of the young whale is of a fine red colour;
that of the old approaches to black, and is coarse,
like that of a bull, and is said to be dry and sean
when boiled~ because there is but little fat inter-
mixed with the flesh.
The food of the whale is generally sul)posed to
consist of different kinds of sepi~, medusse, or the
cijo limacina of Lin~us; but I hive great reason to
believe, that it is chiefly, if not altogether, of the
sqidll~ or shrimp tribe; for, on examining the stom-
ach of one of large size, nothing else was ibund in it;
tlmy were about half an inch long, semi-transparent,
and of a pale red colour. I also found a great
quantity in the mouth of another, having been appa-
rently vomited by it. When the whale feeds, it
swims with considerable velocity under water, with
its mouth wide open: the water enters by the fore-
j~art, but is poured out again at the sides, and the
food is entangled and sifted, as it were, by the
whalebonewhich does not allow any thing to escape.
It seldom remains longer below the surface than
twenty or thirty minutes: when it comes up again
to blow, it will perhaps remain ten, twenty or thirty
minutes at the surface of the water, when nothing,
disturbs it. In calm weather, it sometimes sleeps in
this situation. It sometimes ascends with so much
187
C'


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                                        TEBEHNE

force, as to leap entirely out of the water. 'When
swimming at its greatest velocity, it moves at the
rate of seven to nine miles an hour.
Its maternal affection deserves notice. The young
one is frequently struck for the sake of its mother,
which will soon come up close by it, encourage it to
swim off, assist it, by taking it under its fin, and sel-
dom deserts it while life remains. It is then very
dangerous to approach, as she loses all regard for
her own safety in anxiety for the preservation of her
cub, dashing about most violently, and not dreading
to rise even amidst the, boats. Except, however,
when the whale has young to protect, the male is in
general more active and dangerous than the female,
especially males of about nine feet bone.
The principal enemies of the whale, are the
swordl-fish and thrasher. It is probable that the
shark is also an enemy to the whale, for it attacks
the dead carcase; and the whale is seen to fly those
quarters of the sea where the shark abounds.

THE B3EE HUNTER.

AFTER I have done sowing, by way of recreation 1
prepare for a week's jaunt in the woods, not to hunt
either the deer or the bears, as my neighbours (10,
but to catch the more harmless bees. I cannot boast
that this chase is so noble or -so famous among men,
but I find it less fatiguing, and full as profitable; and
the last consideration is the only one that moves mec
I take with me my dog, as a-companion, for he is
useless as to this game; my gun, for no man, you
know, ought to enter the woods without one; my
blanket, some provisions, some wax, vermilion, ho.
ney, and a small pocket compass. With these imple.
ments I proceed to such woods as are at a con siderble
distance from any settlements. I carefully examine
whether they abound with large4 treeCs; if so, I make
1*88

4 (

a small fil e on some flat stones, in a convenient place
On the fire I put some wax; close by this fire, ont
another stone, I drop honey in distinct drops, which
I surround with small quantities of vermilion, laid
on the stone; and then I retire carefully to watch
whether any bees appear. .If there are ~any in that
neighbourhood, I rest assured that the smell of the
burnt wax will unavoidably attract them. ~They
will soon find out the honey, for they are fond of
preying on that which is not their own; and in their
approach they necessarily tinge themselves with
some particles of vermillion, which will long adhere
to their bodies. I next fix my compass, to find out
their course, which they keep invariably strait, when
they are returning home loaded. By the assistance
of my watch, I observe how long those are returning
which are marked with vermilion. Thus possessed
of the course, and, in some measure, of the distance,
which I can easily guess at, I follow the first and
seldom fail of coming to that tree where those repub-
lics are lodged: I then mark it; andl thus, with pa-
tience, I have found out sometimes eleven swarms in
a season! and it is inconceivable what a quantity of
honey these trees will sometimes afford. It entirely
depends on the size of the hollow, as the bees never
rest, nor swarm, till it is all replenished; for, like
me~n, it is only the want of room that induces them
to quit the maternal hive. Next, I proceed to some
of the nearest settlements, where I procure proper
assistance to cut down the trees, get all my prey se-
cured, and then return home with my prize. Trhe
first bees I ever procured were thus found in the
woods by mere accident, for at this time I had no
kind of skill in this method of tracing them. The
body of the tree being perfectly sound, they had
lodged the mselvs in the hollow of one of its principal
limbs, which I carefully sawed off, and with a good
deal of labour and industry brought it home, where
fixed it up in the same position in which I found it
wing. This was in April. I had live swarms
189


FALLIBILITY OF HUMAN JUDGMENT.

MARVELLOUS UEPOSITORY.

that year, and they have ever since been very prose
porous. This business generally takes up a week
9f my time ever~# fall, and to me it is a week of sol-
itary ease and relaxation.
The seed is by that time committed to the ground.
There is nothing very material to be done at ~i ome,
and This additional quantity of honey enables me
to be more generous to my home bees, and my wife
to make a due quantity of mead The reason, Sir,
that you found mine better than others, is, that she
puts two gallons of brandy in each barrel, which ri-
pens it, and takes off that sweet lusciou~ taste, which
it retains a long time. If we find any where in the
woods (no matter on whose land) what is called a
bee-tree, we must mark it. In the fall of the year,
when we propose to cut it downs our duty is to in-
form t he ~i'op ne torof the land, who is entitled to
half the contents. If this is not complied with, we
are exposed to an action of trespass, as well as he
who should go and cut down a bee-tree which he
had neither found out nor marked.

FALLIBILITY OF HUMAN JUDGMENT.

A GENTLEMAN died possessed of a considerable
fortune, which he left to his daughter, appointing
his brother to be her guardian and the executor oi?
his will; and, if the young lady (who wasthen about
eighteen) happened to die unmarried, or, if married,
without children, her fortune was to go to her guar-
dian ~d his kin.
Notwithstanding the objections of her other rela-
tions, the uncle took her to his house near Eppin~
Forest, whence she spon afterwards disappeared; afl(I
inquiry being made, it was proved that she went out
with her uncle one day, and that he returned with
out her. He was, in consequence, taken into custo-
dy, and, on examination, acknowledged that he did
190

go out with her, and said that she found means to loit-
er behind as they were returning home, and therefore
he knew not where she was, or what had become of
her. This account, however, being thought im-
probable, hewas detained in custody; when it was
discovered that the young lady had been addressed
by a gentleman, who, a few days before she was mis-
sing, set out on a pretended journey to the north, she
having declared that she would marry him on his re-
turn; and that, her uncle having often expressed
great disapprobation of the match, she had frequent-
ly reproached him with unkindness, and an abuse
of his power. A woman was also produced, who
swore that on the day on which they went out, as she
was coming through the forest about eleven o'clock
in the forenoon, she heard a woman's voice say,
Don't kill me, uncle; don't kill me; and, hearing the
report of a gun immediately after, she made as
fast as possible, but could not be easy in her mind till
she had told what had happened. Upon this evidence,
thegentleman was condemned and executed; and,
in about ten days after his execution, the lady came
home, and declared, that having previously agreed
to go off with the gentleman, he had given out that
he was going to the north, but that he had waited at
a small house near the forest, where horses where
ready for himself and her, as well as two servants who
were also on horseback. That, as she walked with her
uncle, he reproached her for persisting in her resolu-
tion; and, after much altercation, she said, with
some warmth, 1 have set my heart upon it: if I do
not marry him, it will be my death-and, don't kill
me, uncle; don't kill me. That just as she had utter-
ed these words, a man shot a wood-pigeon; and that,
coming near the appointed place, she let her uncle
go on; and her suitor being ready, she mounted her
horse and rode off to lodgings near 'Windsor, where
they were married the same day, and, in about a
week, ivent on a journey of pleasure to France,
whence they were then returned.
191


I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

FL OATING S HOPS.

THE 1YLISER

JAMES JENKINS.

THIS afternoon, at B. J. 's, one of our company
was a young woman, who was there on a visit. Her
usual residence was in one of the new settlements,
on the banks of the Ohio,, about 500 miles from Phi-
ladelphia. She informed us that many families on
the banks of this great riverare supplied with shop
goods from'yessels which navigate it, and are fitted
up with counters, shelves, and drawers, in the same
manner as are shops on land, and well stored with
all kinds of goods. As they sail along the river, on
coming near a plantation, they blow a horn or conch
to give notice of their arrival; when the plant-
ers, with their wives and daughters, repair to these
o4ng shops, and select such things as they are in
waiit of; and make payment in the produce of their
plantations, such as grain, flour, cotton, tobacco,
dried venison, the skins of wild animals, &amp;c. &amp;c.
The shopkeeper, having disposed of his goods in this
way, returns home with the produce he has collect-
ed; and again renews his stock, and proceeds on
another voyage. The young woman remarked, that
four or five of these floating shops would pass by her
father's house in the course of a day. /
She likewise informed us, that (such was the pri-
mitive simplicity in which they lived) it was a very
unusual thing to have locks to their doors; a~d that,
when more strangers called upon them than they had
beds to accommodate them with, it was customary
for the family to spread temporary beds upon the
floor, on which they passedAhe night, leaving their
own to the strangers.
192

1*
~
I
'IA i~
"F' ul
K.
A',
K
Ajf~

Tnis extraordinary character was born near the
city of Worcester, in England; the date or time of
his birth could never be exactly ascertained, or
whom his parents were, as nothing remarkable re-
specting them could ever be found out, from himself
or by his biographer. Suffice it to say, his own sin~
gular habits, his singular appearance, his singular
mode of living, his singular death, and, above aJI, the
singular and extraordinary sums of money, and
other valuables,, found concealed, in and about his
dungeon, (for We can call the place of his abode no-
thing else,) has caused persons, from a remote part
of the country, to come, from curiosity, to view it.
Jemmy Jenkins' conduct was regulated by two or
three very simple notior~s. Bread, thought he, is
bread; cheese is cheese; but money is bread and
cheese too. A house is a house, and a field is a field,
but money is both, and therefore better than either;
so I will keep my money; for if I exchange, said he~
my money for these, they will have letter than me;
therefore, the best of the bargain. Jemmy Jenkins,
however, forgot that money was neither bread nor
cheese, whilst he kept it, and that its only value
consists in its being exchanged for the commodities
of life: but this doctrine he thought unwise. Also,
Jemmy Jenkins cared for nobody but himself, and
nobody cared for Jemmy Jenkins.
his dwelling, which he held on the same terms as
the sand-martins or rabbits, his only ne~ighbours, was
something between a hermitage and a hog-stye, yet
R        A13       193


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
was not to be compared to either: for though it cx
hibited the poverty of the first, was not eveki aq
cleanly as the latter. And like most oilier misers,
had also the appellat ion of being a woman-hat cii: for
not one of the sex was he ever known to address,
either in 1~ublic or private life. Even the males who
resided in the neighbour hood where he lived, founo
it peculiar~ hard to engage him in conversation ot
any kind, and the contemptuous appearance of his
hovel, rendered any depredation on it or him as use~
less; s5 that most persons supposed that h~ existed
on charity, vet those that partially knew him, never
knew him ask alms of any one. How he acquired
his wealth, to this hour, is inexplicable.
His hovel was situated at the bottom of a sand pit,
or forsaken gravel-hole. It could only be distin-
guished from the abode of some burrowing quadru-
ped, by a few massy logs, which formed a barricade
at the entrance, with some straw and peat, which
kept out the sun and rain. What the interior con-
tained, that, he was singularly cautious, no one but
himself, during his life-time should know.
Here he maintained undisputed possession, for
many years, rarely observed, and never molested;
for he who could feel no apprehensions from super-
natual appearances, in s~ich a situation, was, by
the common people reckoned among them ;and,
therefore, his residence, after sui~xset, was as care-
fully avoided as the-church-yard itself.
Within a short distance of this odd man's retreat
there stood the venerable and dignified remains of
a budding that had been erected at a very remote
period. From the extent of its remains, it is more
than probable it had been a j)lace of considerable
consequence, as a religious establishment, up to the
period of the E~eformation. through this ruin, old
Jenkins used to pass to a small market town, not
f~,r distant, to purchase a fliw of the absolute neces-
~aries of 1db.
One day having expostulated with hi~ necessities

JAMES JENKgiNS,

the usual time, he sciected a small copper eoin, t~
make a rieedfbl purchase; apri as the singularity of
his appearance, and many colom'ed patched old coat,
had often attracted the boys of the irillage, and other
curious persons, who gladly availed themselves to
get a sight of this curious animal of the den, he was
more than once ad(lresSed, nay, often handled by
them, in a far more farniliay manner than he wished
or intended. In order, therefore, to avoid such re-
ceptions, he usually stole out, for his necessaries. in
the dusk of the evening, and made his way through
the old ruin, as he was sure to meet no person in
that way after sun-set, which like ad other ruins ott
the kind, that stood in lonesome places, in these
'lays of darkness, had the appellation of being
haunted.
Fear, curiosity, or any other ~entirnent~ had not
taken possession of his imnind, cave that which mi~hr
enable him to keep his legs in trarersina~ the f~'az-
ments and rubbish, with which this rouzh and uver~
grown spot was covered; however, he set his foot
on a loose stpEe, which so far betrayed him. that he
involuntari l'v and suddenly;extenled his ri~hr arm.
to recover his balance, and in doin~ ~o. ejected the
~ ieee of money from his hitherto well closed dst.
Vith unbelieVing eyes he examined his empty palm,
for had his head dropped from his shouider~. he
could scarcely have been struck with more disma~~;
his money was lost, he knew not exactly where; he
brought no more about hint. tbr tear ot heinz roe-
bed on the way. His already clamorous interna~s~
began to be tr blesonie~ having tasted nothing
since his fru~a1 repast that morifin~z and although
he had the said intervals in tolerable subjection to
his will, vet he cunsb{ered. if he was to return to nis
cave again for inure ntonev~; ~VO24 be too late Lu be
hack again to the vd;age. to pucll~e any tflifig fOr
that nivht' so he tbuued the tron resulutiun H
seavehiu~ for it~ aol 'ion eventually ~osiug ~L
~.    heap of ru~K~i~h and ov'~wwu wocus
19~


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
nearly six feet high. lie did not pretend at thin
time, to be either an antiquarian or a botanist lie
had no ambition to analize the properties or the
principles of brick-bats or nettles, particularly at
that-hour of the evening. Kneeling down, he began
regularly to part the entangled herhage, to I'emovo
with his hands every thing which came in his w~ty
that he conceived might be guilty of harbouring the
fugitive. The night being advanced, he was oblig-
ed to relin q1uish his search for the present, hut care~
fully remar ~ed the spot, that on the morrow he might
renew it with redoubled vigor.
Just as he arose to begone, and nearly on the same
path way or passage, as he turne(l an angle of the
building, within a few yards of which he had been
engaged, he met a person, whom of all others in the
creation he least wished to encounter. This was an
elderly female whose professional pursuits were of
that nature which rendered her the dreads well as
the admiration of the surrounding peasantry; for when
any thing was lost, she was consulted with a fee'
when a young couple wished to know their destiny,
she was consulted with a fee' when reputed ghosts
made their nightly appearances, she was referred to:
in short, she was th~ fortune-telling pythoness of
the country, and from far and near was she consult-
ed. Jemmy Jenkins knew her w&amp;ll, and as if each
was jealous of the other' (for. she was an old maid,
and he an old bachelor) they had a secret spleen and
ill-will toward the other. He denied her power,
and called her an imposter, and she was jealous of
him as most of the country people called him a super-
natural being, who dealt in the black art; 'nobody
knew on what or how he lived. Two such charac-
ters to meet in such a place, and at sttch an hour of
the night, was rather ominous.
Mother Folliott, for so the oi~1 witch was called,
in a hoarse croaking voice4 accosted him tiest with a
"i-low now old, groper! what dost thou ~ at this
time o' night, amongst the quiet reces~~ ol' the
196

I

JAMES JENKIYS,

dead? art thou not content with imposing upon tb~
living, but must come here to disturb them abo."
Jenkins who was well aware that she possessed more
penetration than the multitude around them, alway~
avoided her scrutinizing eye, particularly since some
years back; the mania so peculiar to the ~'emaie sex,
took possession of the dame, (1 mean euriosih,~) and
she obtruded herself to the door of old .Jenkins' hut.
But he like a watchful Cerberus rn~t the enemy in
front, arid opposed her entrance; a battle royal e-nsu-
ed of scurrilous language, which coukl not prove
very edifying to our reader~; he cursed her for an
old impostor, and said it Would be greater charity to
have her burned now, than any ~vitch that had been
in the r~.ign of James the 14 of Scotland. She in
reply, said, it was reported, and well known through
all the country, that he had sold himself to old Nick,
and sealed it with his blood: rise why would he
choose to live so near the bottomss pit. And aNo,
that he must have been a murderer. and had con-
cealed the murdered man's property in that hellish
den of his. This roused Jenkins' irritable feelings.
and from words he proceeded to blow~: and wh~-
ther Dame Folliott mounted a broom-4ick or
crutch, we know not; but ~he maiP her retreat oirt
of the sand-pit with as much velocity, and in neari'~
as great a fright as Blue Beard's wife did out of the
blue chamber, where she had ~een the horrid specta-
cle of his murdered wives. When she got to the top.
she rubbed her shoulders. for he had inflicted some
blows4 and in revenge, she hurled down (when out
of his reach) some ponderous 4ones which would
have annihilated our hero, had he not retired to his
hole in time where he rested secure.
But to return to their meeting in the old ruin, Jen..
kins said, it did not concern her what he did: that
great a witch a~ ~he pretended to b~, she could not
tell what biottgrit him hither :-she tben replied that
she cot4     Thac he ~vas on hs way o'~UPPIY his
craving ~a petite, when cue ~crtmtdei en a stune~ aa~
197


II
j ~
I
Iii

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
die money he had in' his hand to~ buy food, had flown
out of it' and been lost." This the dame learned, as
she had been some time overlooking him from be.
hind a wall, and he kept constantly muttering to
himself his ill fate in doing so. But both keeping in
mind the old encounter, each passed on their own
way like two snarling dogs, cursing each other; she
to the village, and he to his sand pit, where what the
witch had told him in the ruin, respecting the loss
of his penny, made him very uneasy; for said heto
himself may she not as well know how much money
I have, and where all my bags of it, are concealed,
and send somebody to murder m~, and get it all?
The thoughts of this banished sleep from his eyes,
and as he lay awake, he was planning~ where he
should remove it to a place of more security. He arose
some hours before day, and taking his bags to differ~
ent holes he had dug in remote corners of his den,
and carefully placed the earth over them, so that if
his hovel was entered by any one in his absence,
they could find nothing worth carrying away.
Old Jenkins accordingly issued forth early on the
ensuing morning, just at the time when he thought
there was light enough to make a ghost invisible, and
darknesss enough to make himself so too, it was cold,
raw, and foggy; and as his mind was not accustomed
to consult his body, his resolution was not influenced
by that circumstance. Just at dawn of day, he ar-
rived at the ruin, lest Mother Folliott, or any other
person should get there before him, with eagle eye,
and anxious mind he sought out the spot of his so
seeming great mishap, the preceding evening, and
which he soon recognized; He immediately got on
all fours, notwithstanding the wetness of the grass,
nettles, and hemlock, he thrust himself among them;
he persevered with determined resolution to fast till
he had found his coin, he parted each fibre, each
weed and Particle of grass, with scrupulous exact
ness.
'198

JAMES JENINS.

~1
11

He at length came to that fatal heap of rubbish
where his font turned under him, and gave him so
much heart felt uneasiness; he here began to remove
it piece by piece, thinking his truant penny must be
concealed among sortie of its crevices. It is a pity
we cannot here call to our aid in illustration of o~r
story, some personof greater note for patience and ab-~
stinence, than Job himself, for Jenkins, notwithstand
ing all he suffered from hunger and the warring of hi~
intestines, loosened each fragment which appeared to
have been for centuries cemented, shaking and exam-
ining them as he threw them asideeven beyond where
he could conceive his coin could possibly have rolled
to; how long he continued in this employment, none
but himself could tell; but he remained, as he related
himself, till the sun had reached its meridian, during
which time he had cleared a considerable area, and
was working out by degrees a large lump of brick or
cement, when all on a sudden Jemmy .Jenkins, was
no more visible on the surface of this habitable globe!
He was precipitated into a gulph or cavern under~
neath; how long he lay there he could not tell; but
with the fall he for a time lost his senses, he believes
more from fright than hurt, for when he began to
revive, and open his eyes, the first thing that attract-
ed his notice was a clear sky, appearing through a
hole in an arched roof, about fifteen feet above him;
his next care was to feel if his bones were all whole,
which to his no small satisfaction, as well as asto-
nishment he found so; he then tho~ht of moving out
of a curious position in which he was placed; on get-
ting upon his elbow, he perceived a human skeleton,
whether bf a man or woman he could not tell, just at
his head; I cautiously drew away from it, and as
he got up, ~t gave a bounce which nearly pci rifled.
him: in short he had been picking g the crown of an,
old arch vault, or cemetery, which had in eavlier 'lays
I~9

And long did he seek and grope, yet sought in vain,
Riven by the wind and battered by the rain.


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

been the burying place of the inmates of the build..
ing; part of it gave way, he tumbled with it, and
came down on one of the coffins which rested head
and foot on two brick benches; the force of his fall
with the rubbish, smashed the coffin, and threw up
the skeleton in an erect position as described; a per-
spiration. which he was but seldom accustomed to,
oozed through every pore: from his long fasting, his
body became weak, and at the moment, he would
have given hal~C his wealth for even a drink of cold
water: to get out of this horrible place was his next
anxious thought, he had now leisure to curse his ex-
traordinary l)arsimoily, and began to consider, per-
naps ~4 hours more, might make his old bones com~
panions to those around him.
His wits were at all times acute, but more particu-
larly in time of need. "What said he to himself
can these bones do to me, as he examined from coffin
to coffin; the vault seemed to be of considerable
length, the top of it was far above his reach and how
to get extricated he knew not: he groped along the
damp walls, nor could he find the smallest opening
any where; the darkness was impenetrable, a short
distance from where he intruded himself; to stay
there much longer was certain death: the night was
also approaching. He began to rear some of the
old coffins, rubbish, and bricks, from the benches, to
make a mound by which he might reach the top of
the arch,-" Ha!" said he to himself, "I must now
try to' make the dead raise the living, rather than
the living raise the dead. In moving the broken
p arts of the coffin on which he had fallen, he thought
hep perceived something shining, of a bright lustre,
and more particularly as he stood between ~t and the
light; it startled him a little, but moving again
nearer, he more distinctly perceived it was some kind
of metal; he put over his hand and to his no small
astonishment found it to be a golden cross set with
diamonds which had been suspended round the neck
of the skeleton by a golden chain previous to intera
~oo

I

JAMES JENKINS.

ment; he eagerly pulled it toward him, and with it
came the skull of its once owner, which fell at his
feet, he gazed upon it with avidity peculiar to him-
self, he forgot all he sufh~red, even the chance he had
yet of extricating himself from his present situation;
he had even thoughts of searching further for more
spoils; but the calls of nature demanded his every
exertion to supply it: he deposited the cross and
chain carefully in the many-fold of his many-pieced
garment, and proceeded with alacrity to raise his
heap higher, till at last, by patience and persever-
ance, he once more protruded his cadaverous coun-
tenance into the open air; eager once more to get
above h~s mother earth, he made a spring, but un-
fortunately either a piece of the arch gave way with
his weigt~t, or his fragile footing underneath, or per-
haps both, but our hero was once more hurled in a
rolling position to the lowest depth of the charnel-
house, accompanied with bricks, mortar, old coffin:
dry bones, &amp;c. Fortunately for him his good genius
again befriended him; he was not seriously hurt:
(save a few bruises, and a cut in the face from which
he bled copiously:) he got up, shook himself, and
set about again preparing a more permanent way,
by which he at length set his foot on terra firma.
The sun was just setting; he had that morning taken
the precaution of putting another penny in his pock-
et, lest he should not find that which he had lost;
elated with his new prize, although he was two days
without food, he nearly forgot his internal wants
however he set off to the village, made his purchase,
and as he jogged homeward again through his fa-
vorite spot, (the abbey,) he administered some con-
solation to his craving appetite. Our hero gave a
peep into t'he vault 'as he passed, but all was dark
and dismal; he began te perceive some, qualms of
conscience' the words of old mother Foliiott rever-
berated on his senses, thief, robber, &amp;c. but he soon
quieted himself on that head, as he said it was none
of his own seeking, but that All-wise Providence
I

4,,
h


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

who made him the instrument of redeeming the tr ea-
sure, already too long concealed from the useful pur
poses of man.
When he got to his den, he carefully closed the
dPor, struck a light, examined his prize minulely:
and to his no small gratification found the diamonds
to be real, and of great value,-.-the metal they
were set in, and chain, to be of massive pure gold~
He of course hid it carefully, and happy would it
have been for 'him if he had gone to sic ep without
thinking further of the transactions of the day; but
his evil gen~ns suggested to him, that surely if the
first coffin he had by chance broken open possessed
~o much treasure, what must the rest contain? this
haunted his mind in such a manner that sleep be-.
caine a stranger to him.
He got up the next morning unrefreshed and un-
well, he had residedin this hole for a number of years,
without once experiencing pain or ache; but the
~inusual perturbation of his mind for the last two days,
with the frights, fatigues, and long fa~tin~ evidently
1)reyed upon him: soon as day light appeared, he
straggled out for a pitcher of spring-water, but was
scarce able to return with it; he barricaded his door,
and was obliged to lie dowp, and take to his bed; he
would have given the world for any kind of person
o attend him; but alas! no human person was near.
It was evident he had caught a fever, and much like
Robinson Crusoe, in his uninhabited island, our hero
fared, arid for an entire week he lived on spring-
water; by keeping himself so very low, he may be
literally said to have starved out the complaint, 50
that at the end of the week, he was able to crawl out
r~f bed to unbolthis door; for some charitable people
in the neighbourhood not perceiving hun abroad as
usual, for so long a time, thought he might have
(lied in the interim, and two or three of them had
come dowi:, and rapped for admPtance; they were
astonished to perceive time very low stale he was re
duced to; they sent him some nourishing thium~ 1i~m

I

JAMES JENKINS.
rharty, which he accepted of, and was soon able to
resume his former walks. We may naturally suppose~
the vault was his first care, for the longer he staid
from it, the more he felt convinced in his own mind,
it contained the greater treasure, and to explore it
he was (leterrrlined, let the con~equence he what it
wo~Id. Pouring the time 01(1 Jenkins lay sick, Mother
Folliolt had heel) at the ruin, afl(l hy chance pereeiv~
ed the hole, through which he had fallen into the
vault,'she peeped in, hut colil(l see, nothing hut rub-.
hish and human 1)ones; her nerves were not as ~t~on~
as our hero's to venture in; however she was resolv'-
e(l to watch all his movements, and hiding her :elf
un(ler a convenient enclosure at some di4ance she
perceive(l him approaching, "ft is old gn.nea-plg,
said she to herself, "or his Fefeh," for long as she
had experience of the world, she was not altogether
sure that there was no such things as gho4s or- spi-
rits; shehad heard stories in her youth, which even
yet, old and resolute as she was, had made ~ome light
impressions upon her; she had al~o heard .Jenkins
had been ill, and perhaps he might ha; e died: but
let her opinions be what they were. ~he fliStifl('tlV
perceived a man, or something CiSc like one, stop at
the mouth of the new made hole, disappear as ~f de-
scending into it, which she knew well was a bury-
ing vault. I had forgot to apprise my readers it was
at this time a dark night, for Jenkins thought it more
udent to resume his search during that period, as
~in~
b least liable to be disturbed by any hAng crea-
ture. He had provided himself with some tools,
candles, tinder-box, a rope to let himself down by,
which he made fast to a neighboring tree: ~oon as
he reached the bottom, he struck a light which he
cautiously removed to atlistance tlom the aperture,
and was about commencing his depredations on one
of the leaden coffins, when he perceived some rub-
bish fall down from the hole abovef-it riveted his
attention to the spot, and lwarin~ sonic noise over
his head, hi' prudently concealed hi~ candle at a di~

4
ii
I


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

I

JAMES JENKINS.

tance down the vatilt, and softly returned to recon-
noitre: but as he confessed himself not without some
apprehensions for his safety. He perceived a per-
son looking into the hole, and heard a voice which
he soon recognized to be Mother Folliott's, crying,
"Vou old thief, come forth from robbing' the dead."
Jenkins, who in his heart cursed her for this inter-
ruption, and fearing she might apprise the people
of the neighbourhood before he would be able to
complete his purpose; having a long staff in his hand
which he usually walked with, and finding the skull
which a few days before he had dragged off the skele-
ton, he ingeniously fixed it on the head of the staff,
pretty firms he softly stole tinder where thedame
hadp rejected her head, and as she was about to re-
peat the words again, he gave her a severe puck of
the bare skull in the face, which made her draw
back and roar out lustily. He immediately bethought
himself of a method to get rid of her effectually, with-
out exposing himself; knowing the skull to be hol-
low, he immediately proceeded to the candle, off
which with his knife, he cut a short bit, and placed
it on the head of his stick within the skull, so that it
had almost frightful appearance, the light showing
in strong rays through the eyes, nose, &amp;c. and be-
fore the old witch could remove many paces, he
slowly raised the scull some feet above the mouth of
the hole, and turned it round and round, so that she
could not possibly fail to see it in all its shapes~ An
hysterical scream, from the old witch, was the result
of this stratagem; for perceiving no body, and the
skull only ascending from such a place, her strides
from the spot were rapid and quick-nor did she
any more trouble old Jenkins, not even in day light
could any one persuade her to go near the old ruin
afterward.
Jenkins perceiving the effect his stratagem had
upon her, Mt a secret pleasure, insomuch that the
muscles of his rugged countenance, which for yeai~s
before had not exhibited even a symptom of joy, bed
204

4
ii
II

came risible in horrid deformity. When all was qui.
et he resumed his search, and from many of the cof.
fins he obtained some valuable prizes of the sacred
relies of the superstition of early days; it was evi-
dent this had been the burial place of the nuns of
the adjoining convent, as it was the custom in those
times to bury them with their sacred ornaments on.
He continued his search until it was near morning,
when he thought it would be no longer prudent to
stay: he had got valuable booty, and not without anx-
iety he ascended the open, which he easily regained
by assistance of the rope, and arrived at his hut~ in
safety.
After taking some rest he employed\tbe greater
part of the following day in examining and cleaning
off the rust which had accumulated on the articles
in the coffins. Having gone for several nights suc-
cessively, rummaged and turned out every bone one
by one, that time had not done so to before; he dis-
covered an iron door at the lower end of the vault,
which after extraordinary exertion he forced open;
he described a narrow flight of winding spiral stairs
by which he cautiously descended to a long narrow
passage: his light became very faint as he proceed-
ed, he found a difficulty of breathing; a dizziness
seized him, so that he was obliged to grasp at the
wall to prevent his falling down; it provider~tially
occurred to him to return quickly back; he grad-
ually recovered as he got near the iron door, but his
candle had gone out and left him in impenetrable
darkness; he had brought a small bag which contain-
ed a few tools, a tinder-box, and some other necessa-
ries; he had left these down in the upper vault, and
with great difficulty he groped his way u~p the steps,
which projected over a round tower or well of con-
siderThle depth underneath, but at that time he was
not aware that if he should make the smallest slip,
his bones should lie there to accowpanv those arou d.
He regained the iron door in safety, sought and found
S

4


~IARVI~LLOUS REPOSITOIIY.

JAME~S JIINKINS.

his bag, re-lit his candle and gave up further research
for that night.
A few evenings afterwards, going to the village as
usual to purchase his necessaries, as he sat resting
himself in the chandler's shop, two neighbours hap-
pened to be chatting on news of the (lay; one sud-
denly turned and asked the other, "Had he heard
any particulars respecting Mother Folliolt's death,"
the other replied "he had not,- save some strange
stories which he did not believe;" the other said
"she died out of her wits, that she had declared seve
ral times before it, that she had seen the devil in a
vault in the old abbey, and it had such an effect on
her, that she died in seven days after." Old Jenk-
ins listened with great attention, and notwithstand-
ihg that he felt secretly glad that he had such an in-
veterate enemy out of his way: yet he felt consider-
able qualms of conscience at being the cause--which
now he had no doubt but he was. From that day
forward he visibly declined in his health, as it was
thought the recollection of it preyed on his mind,
yet notwithstanding he was immensely rich, and
without knowing one individual relation, or friend,
that he cared about, he would not allow himself to
drink any thing but Water, and eat things of the
coarsest kind.
He formed the resolution of visiting the vault as
he was not by any means satisfied with the discovery
he had already made; he would descend into it once
more. A few days after, he went with his bag, tools
and apparatus; after having descended the frightful
spiral stairs beneath the iron door,,, he proceeded
along the Vaulte(l passage, his candle burned bright-
er than before: for he having left the door open, the
foul air had evaporated; and as he proceeded to the
end, his progress was stopped by a massive iron grate,
which was bolted on the side next to him, and bad
the appearance of not being opened for centuries;
Jenkins applied his tools to the door, which from
being nearly reduced to rust from perpetual damp
206

I

soon yielded to his persevering hand; and within
nearly opposite, in a stone nitch cut in the wall, ap
peered the bones of a huge human skeleton fallen t~
pieces; round each anele-bone was a large iCOfl ring
rivited, an(l iron rings bad heenround the arms also;
a strong iron chain lay on the ground, which appear-
ed to have been made fast to a staple in the wall ad-
joining, and another large one in the flagged floor
of the dungeon, for such it appeared to be, for it ad-
inited no light in any place;- this dungeon termi-
nale(l the passage. Round the nitch where the skele-
ton lay, appeared to be carved, by some rude piece
of metal, some characters in Saxon or Old English,'
which after closely and minutely observing, he could
trace or nearly guess it to be " ramine the 2'ower;"
he took the hint, and proceed~ to do so, an4 on strik-
ing all round, he thought he perceived it appear hol-
low--and on closer application of his tool he rooted
out an oaken wainscot, which was artfully placed in
the wall, and which mouldered nearly at his touch.
"What was the astonishment of the Miser when he
beheld concealed in this large cavity or press, all the
massive gold and silver services of tl~ churches he
longing to this once vast establishment. At length,
said he, "Are all my risks, my toils, and dangers re~
warded. Oh! thou good, thou generous skeleton.,
thy bones shall here have quiet burial; no more, shall
cruel man insult thy remains; thori hast been gene~
rous even in thy death. '-
Jenkins took his bones and du~ a hole without
the tower in the passage, and laid them at full length,
which appeared full eight feet. But whom or what
he was, he could not ascertain: soon as he had corn-
pleted this, he took from the press the ponderous gold
and silver vessels, and laid thenion the floor around
him, until he was tuore than knee deep :n the nrc-
cious uu'tak: he proceeded to remove them to the
outer vault as he traversed these long and dark pas~
~ages, often, very often, old Mother l'i'olliot-'s well-
known voice haunted his iuiagina.tion :--he got un-
'WI

'Ii

i


JAMES JENKINS.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

easy at remaining long at any time sepultured-he
had resolved on removing his prey by night to his
den, to avoid suspicion; he carried about one half of
it to the outer vault, and had removed it by many a
weary journey to his hut at night; but whether from
his late illness, and not taking proper care of, or ab
lowing himself proper nourishment after, or perhaps
he got cold from remaining too long in the vault, or
used greater exertion than he was able to bear, he
took violently ill, after returning hoiAe, and had
some presentiment of his death.-Standing at his
door, one morning, a little after sunrise, he hailed
a labouring man belonging to a farmer, who had
often been kind to and had protected him from the
insult of Wicked boys. On this worthy yeoman's
ground he had so long resided, and under his protec-
tion he had so long remained quiet and unmolested;
he believing him to be wretchedly poor, and was one
of those who called to see him after he had been sick,
and. sent him nourishment; and who had not the
slightest hope of reward. He desired the man to
send his master to him immediately. The man went
for him, and he came soon after; Jenkins waited for
him with considerable impatience; he was sitting a
little within his door on a stone bench scarcely able
to support~ himself upright: Jenkins made a sign to
the farmer to support him to his bed: the farmer
complied, after laying him down in an easy posture,
he beckoned him to sit down beside him, that he had
something of importance to communicate to him,
and began nearly as follows:-
"My old friend, I perceive my end approaching
fast, I now find I have all along lived a miserably bad
life-at war with myself and all the world. The only
consolation I have left, is, that I am about to leave
those riches that have been such a curse to me, rather
than a blessing, to the only man who has shown
me any kindness; I know I should have received
kindness from others, had I merited it myself: but
for my temper and disposition, which my destiny
205

would not permit me to control: Your kind inter.
ference often in my behalf, must have sprung from
a disinterested motive, which shall now be reward~
ed beyond your most sanguine expectations. To
give you a sketch of my life, would, perhaps, to you
be uninteresting, nor am I able (said he with a deep
sigh) now to accomplish it: it must suffice at present
to state, I early in life~ was active, vigilant and
careful; by various pursuits, as an itinerant mer~
chant, I amassed a considerable sum of money, and
by a(lvantageously placing it at interest, and my own
~rery moderate mode of living, in a long series of
years (for I am now eighty-seven) has accumulated
many thousand pounds. Alas! my whole conso~
nation and delight, for years has been often to reckon,
tie up in bags, and toconceal it, in this miserable
hovel; this very wealth has been the cause of all my
miseries in life, being always afraid to remove it
with me. This hut I have kept l~" and miserable,
and my person in like manner, that the profligate
should not think it worth their notice to commit de-
predations on either; but I find my strength grow-
ing weaker, with what I have already said; I am
nearly exhausted; and he sunk back on his misera-
ble trickle bed."
The astonished farmer, whose name was Thomas
Johnson, could scarce believe what he had heard; he
got his arm under his head, a death-like paleness
overshadowed his countenance, and he seemed as if
he had departed this life. Mr. Johnson ran out, he
had to go a short distance, he called his wife, and
meeting the servant man who had first called him
to Jenkins, he desired them to accompany him to
the hut; that he believed the old man was dying.
They immediately followed-on entering the hut,
they found 01(1 Jenkins had a little revived, that his
eyes were half open, but in so weak a state, as not
to be able to utter or s1)eak to be understood; he
moved his lips, Mrs. Johnson approached the bed,
she gave him a little drink which revived him; he
A14        209.

II~fl'
~1.
f

If~
{~

j4'~
Ii

~1


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

motioned for pen and ink, and pointed out to where
it could be got, with a supply of paper. Mr. John~
son brought it; he signed to be turned on his left
side, the paper was placed conveniently to him, and
~ the pen put' into his hand, when he indited the fob
lowing will.-
I, James Jenkins, being about to be called to an
account in another world, for what I have done on
this earth; before I depart hence, and knowing per-
fectly what I am now about, do will, and leave to
my friend Thomas Johnson, all I am possessed of,
real and pe~'sonai.
Signed,     James Jenkins,
Witness present
Timothy .Maslerson
He then motioned to be laid down gently, and
seemed to drop asleep; Mrs. Johnson stepped home,
gdt some nourishment suited for such a patient, and
brought some reviving cordials with her. Mr John-
son and the man remained to watch him; in about
two hours he awoke; Mrs. Johnson was in the room,
she had made some teal of which he took a little; he
beckoned to call Mr. Johnson, and in presence of his
wife, pointed to a corner of the hut, (the man had left
it) and on taking off an old piece of coarse cloth,
they were astonished at beholding the massive church
plate, part of which Jenkins had just removed home
as before related; Johnson started, looked at Jenkins,
as much as to say, God forgive you old man, for I
fear you have been guilty of many robberies of the
worst kind. Jenkins perceived him, and guessed at
his thoughts, he motioned with his head to come
~lose to him, when he said in a low tone of voice,
"My friend, I perceive your meaning, these \hings
I have come by honestly, hUt they have cost mc my
life; providence threw them in riry way, an(l much
more; they have been the church Aale of the mon-
astery or old ruin near the village; I discovered
..~2lo

JAMES JENKINS.

them by mere acci(lCnt, where they have lain eon
cealc(l for centuries, in a dungeon beneath the West-
ern tower; I have no doubt but they were convey-
ed there by some of those who had the care of them,
in times of anarchy and confusion, and the secret of
their concealment (lied with those who had put them
there." lie then gave an account how he would be
able to obtain the remainder; he then pointed out
where he ha(l concealed the differentt bags of gold,
and the distances he had buried them in the earth.
" I find I am unable to say more." He sunk into a
hind of lethargy, his extremities got cold, and before
evening, be departed without a struggle.
Johnson and his wife could scarcely believe all
this real, and began to fancy it was a fairy dream;
hut ~vhcn ea9h convinced the other that both were
in their sober senses by feeling and examining their
now vast property, real and personal, they both fell
on their knees, as if by instinct, anti returned thanks
to the Great Donor, of all good, who had made the
wretched man so lately departed, as the instrument
of their great uprise in the world, and so unsought
for. Their next care was to secure their treasure in
a place of safety, and to get the old man decently
interred, all which was soon accomplished. Johnson
had removed from the dungeon the remainder of the
plate, had the whole conveyed to London and con-
verted into cash, which, together with the vast sum
of ready money which he care fully dug out of differ
ent parts, in and near the miser's cave, he purchased
a handsome estate, where he now resides, doing
with it much good, and is an ornament in society.
~1 I

K

2%
4%

4%
'V -
t~        4
ft ~


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                          ST. PETER AND THE BLACKSMITH.

N

4        4
'4
~i~ii~~11
iiV:ij A''.
I f
I p
4 '4't

SAINT PETER AND THE BLACKSMITH.

IN Roman Catholic countries it was a very ancient
custom for the preacher to divert his congregation
in due season with what is termed an Eastern tale,
which was received by the auditors with peals of
Eastern laughter. During Lent the good people
had mortified themselves and prayed so much, that
they began to be discontented and ill tempered; so
that the clergy deemed it necessary to make a little
fun from the pulpit for them, and thus gave as it were
the first impulse towards the revival of mirth and
cheerfulness. This practice lasted till the seven..
teeth century. The following isby the Rev. Father
Attansy.
Our Lord was journeying with St., Peter and had
passed through many countries. One day he came
to a place where there was no inn, and entered the
house of a blacksmith. This man had a wife who
paid the utmost respect to the strangers, and treated
them with the best that her house could afford.
When they were about to depart, our Lord and St.
Peter wished her all that was good, and heaven be-
side. Said the woman: "Ah! if [ do but go to
heaven,'I care for nothing else." "Doubt not," said
St. Peter, "for it would be contrary to scripture if
thou shouldst not go. Open thy mouth. Did I not
say so? Why, thou canst not be sent to hell, where
there is wailing and gnashing of teeth-for thou hast
not a tooth left in thy head. Thou art safe enough;
be of good cheer." Who was so everjoyed as the
good woman? Without doubt she took another cup
on the strength of this assurance.
But our Lord was desirous to testify his thanks to
the man also, and promised to grant him four wishes.
"Well," said the smith, "I am heartily obliged to
you, and wish, that if any one climbs up the pear
tree behind my house, he may not ~e able to get
21~2

down again without my leave." This grieved St
Peter not a little, for he thought that the smith ought
rather to have wished for the kingdom of heaven.
B~~t oui~ Lord, with his wanted kindness, granted his
petition. The smith's next wish was that if any one
sat down upon his anvil, he might not be able to rise
withoutt his permission: and the third, that if any.
one crept into his old flue, he might not get oat with..
out his consent.
St. Peter said, "Friend smith, beware what thou
dost. These are all wishes that can bring thee no
advantage. Be wise, and let the remaining one be
for everlasting life with the blest in heaven." The
smith was not to be put out of his way, and thus pro-
ceeded; "My fourth wish is, that my green cap may
belong to me for ever; and that whenever I sit down
upon it no power or force may be able to drive me
away."
Thereupon our Lord went his way with St. Peter,
and the smith lived some years longer with his old
woman. At the end of this time, grim death ap-
peared, and summoned him to the other world.
Stop a moment," said the smith; "let me just put
on a clean shirt, meanwhile you may pick some of
the pears on yonder tree." Death climbed up the
tree, but he could not gct down again; he was forc-
ed to submit to the smith's terms, a respite for twen-
ty years, before he returned.
When the, twenty years were expired, he again
appeared, and commanded him in the nan-le of the
Lord and St. Peter, to go along with him. "I know
St. Peter too," said the smith; "sit down a little on
my. anvil, for thou must be tired; I will just drink a
cu~ to cheer me, and take leave of my old woman,
and be with thee presently." But death could not
rise again from his seat, and was obliged to promise
the smith another de1a~ of twenty years.
When these had elapsed, old Satan came, and
would fain have dragged the smith away by force.
~' Halloo, fellow !" said the tatter, "that won't do.
213

f F
1
g


7-

ItARVELLoUS REPOSITORY

ii

11 1
'I
,~ (
I ~i
i;I~i1 ~?
~iW 4}

C

I have other letters, and wvhiter than thou with thy
black carla bianca. But if thou art such a conjurer
as-to imagine that thou hast any power over me, let
me see if thou canst get into this old rusty flue." No
sooner said, than the old one slipped into the old flue.
The smith and his men put the flue into the fire, then
carried it to the anvil, and hammered away at the
old one most unmercifully. He howled, and beg.-.
ged, and prayed; and at last promised that he would
have nothing to do with the smith if he would but
let him depart.
At length the smith's guardian-angel made his ap-
pearance. The business was now serious. He was
obliged to go. The angel conducted him to torment.
Satan, whom he had so terribly belaboured, was just
then attending the gate; he looked out at the little
window, but quickly shut it again, and would have
nothing to do with the smith. The angel then con-
ducted him to the gate of heaven. St. Peter refus-
ed to admit him. " Let me just peep in," said the
smith, "that I may see how it looks there." No
sooner was the wicket opened than the smith threw
in his cap and said: " Thou knowest it is my pro..
perty, I must go and fetch it."-Then slipping past,
he clapped himself down upon it and said: " Now I
am sitting on my own property; I should like to see
who dares drive me away from it." Thus the smith
got into heaven at last.
INTERESTING ACCOUNT OF THE CAMELEON.
~WHENEVER I kept my cameleons confined i~ a
cage, and there plagued and tormented them, I al-,
ways easily; succeeded in exciting a degree of irrita-
tion and anger, which they manifested by respiring the
air so strong, as to be heard: they likewise became
thin, and their colour gradually became dull. If I
continued to disquiet theum, the dull green changed
214

/

THE CAMELEON.

to a yellow, tinge; then to yellow, spotted with reu;
next a yellow-brown, spotted with-red-brown; then
a grey-brown, spotted with black; and, lastly, from
shade to shade, they at length became almost black,
and more and more thin. .These are the only colours
in which I could succeed in making them assume.
After having thus tormented and kept them prison-
ers during a number of days, I set them free. I
carried them to a tree, or into the grass; and how-
ever black, and, meagre they were, they quickly as-
sumed their green colour, and their usual state of
solidity.
Reiterated experiments have therefore convinced
me, that the cameleon, in a state of perfect liberty,
is always fat, and of a green hue; and that in a state
of captivity not only its colour becomes changed, but
its health also experiences an alteration.
I have often wrapped mny cameleons up in white,
red, blue, violet, green, and yellow stuffs, and lef..
them thus for whole days together;. at the end of
.which, when I visited my poor captives, I found them
neither white, red, blue, violet, yellow, nor a fine
green; but, on the contrary, always of that yellow-.
green, that tarnished yellow, or that grey-black,
.which they for ever assume, when in distress and
suffering.

A MATRIMONIAL CREED

WHOSOEvER wlll'be married, before all things it is
neCessary that he hold the conjugal faith; and the
conjugal faith is this, that there were two -rational
beings created, both equal, and yet one superior to
the other; and the inferior shall bear rule over the
*it erior;' which faith,, except every one do keep
w iole and undefiled, without doubt he shall be scold-
ed at everlastingly.
215

1I~


M~tI
~iI
1
3: A
*
~ }
K
Afr   ~
IA)  j
I I
~I.p
A       AlIT
IA jA A

*1

I

THE

TEACHER TAUGHT.

The woman is commanded to obey the man, and
the man ought to obey the woman.
The man is superior to the woman, and the wo-
man is inferior to the man; yet both are equal, and
he woman shall govern the man.
Yet there are not iwo obedient, but one obedient.
For there is one dominion nominal of the husband,
and another dominion real of the wife; and vet therc
are not two dominions, but one dominion.
For like as we are compelled by the Christian
verity to acknowledge, that wives must submit them-
selves to their husbands, and be subject to them in
all things,
So are we fQrbidden, by the conjugal faith, that
they should he at all influenced by their wills, or pay
any regard to their commands.
The man was not created for the woman, but the
woman for the man.
let the man shall be the slave of the woman, and
the woman the tyrant of the man.
So that in all things, as is aforesaid, the subjection
of' the sup Ck'ZOP to the jiferior is to be believed.
He, therefore, that will be married, must thus
think of the woman and the man.
Furthermore, it is necessary to submissive matri-
mony that lie also believe rightly the infallibility of
the wife:
For the right faith is, that we believe and confess
that the wife is fallible and infallible:
Perfectly fallihie, and j)erfectly infallible' of one
('rrkrig soul anti unerring, mind, subsisting; fallible as
touching hei' human r~ature, and infallible as touch-
j~pr her female sex.
Who., although she be fallible and infallible, yet
she is .not two mit one woman, who submitted to
lawful marriage to acquire unlawful dominionn, and
1~oinised religiously to obey, that she might rule in
folly and injustice.
This is the conjugal faith, which, except a man
believe &amp;aithfuUy, he ought ne~'er to be married.
~16

4-

MARVEI4T1OtTS REPOSITORY.

THERE dwelt in Rome, two very intimate friends,
and relations of the family of Savelli, the one named
Bacciuolo, and the other Pietro Paolo, both nobly
born, and possessed of sufficient wealth. These
young men determined to go and complete their
studies at Betogna; one wished to study the common
law, and the other the canon law. They according-
lv took leave of their friends, and came to Bei~;gna,
and assiduously applied themselves to their respec-
tive pursuits, which they continued for some time.
Now, as you no doubt know, the former improved
himself much sooner than Pietro Paolo; for which
reason, being now a licentiate, he determined to re~
turn to Rome, and said to Pietro Paolo,-" Brother,
since I am now a licentiate, I have resolved to re-
turn home." Pietro Paolo answered, "I prithee do
not leave me here--oblige me by remaining the win..
ter-.--then in the spring we will go together. Thou,
in the mean time, mayest learn some other scienc~~,
by which means thou wilt not waste thy time."
Bacciuolo willingly agreed to the proposal, promis-
ed to wait for him, and in order not to lose his time,
ivent to the professor, and said, "Sir, having made
up my mind to remain with my friend and relation,
I would be glad, if it pleased you to teach me some
noble science during my stay." The professor an
T                  217

:


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.                              THE TEACHER TAUGHT.

4
~     I
4
K
V
~AI
*-1

swered, that he would most willingly (10 it. "Chuse
which science you prefer, and I will teach it you with
pleasure." BacciuQlo then replied, "Worthy Sii', I
would learn how to make love, and to set about it."
The professor, smiling, answered, "this is a good
joke, thou couldst not have hit on a science in which I
am a greater adept. Now then go thy ways on Sunday
morning to the church of the minor friars-there thou
wilt see numbers of fine women assembled, and wilt
-, be able to pitch upon some one that may take thy fan
cy. W'hen thou hast selected the one, follow her until
you find out where she lives-then return to me.
~rhis is the first part of my instructions." Baccinolo
departed, and on the following Sunday, going to the
church as he had been desired, and eyeing all the
pretty women, for there were many, he saw one
among them that pleased him much-she being very
handsome and graceful. XVhen she left the church,
Bacciuolo took care to follow her close, and saw and
marked the house where she dwelt, not however,
without the lady perceiving that the young student
- had taken a fancy to her. Bacejuolo returned to the
professor, and said, "I have done as you desired me,
and I have seen one whom I like very much."
Upon which the professor said he was highly pleas
ed, and smiled at Bacciuolo, seeing what species of
science he was anxious to learn, and he said to him,
* "be sure you make a point of passing by her house,
as it were carelessly, two or three times every day,
and have your eyes about you, and take care that no
one observes you looking at her, but enjoy as muen
as thou mayest the sight of her, and let her perceive
that thou art in love with her; then return to me
This is the second part of my instructions." Bac
cinolo left the professor, and cautiously began to
walk to and fro before the lady's house; so that the
lady perceived that he must certainly walk to and
fro before the house, for the purpose of seeing her-
- she, therefore, began to eye him; insomuch that Bac-
eiuolo began to bow most respectfully to her, and
21S

she returned the salutation several times, the which
persuaded Bacejuolo that the lady did not dislike
bin-i. He, of course, reported the whole to the pro..
f~ssor; who answered, "well, I am pleased with this,
and you have ruled yourself well hitherto. Now
you must endeavour to find one of those female ped..
~ers, that sell trinkets, purses, and such like in the
streets of Bologna, and set her to make the lady a'
quainted with your passion, how much you are de-
vote(1 to her, and that there is none you could prefer
to her, and how happy you would be if she would lay
upon you any commands, by which you could prove
your (levotlon to her: thou wilt hear what she says
to this, an(l thou wilt report it to me and I -will di...
rect thy future conduct." Bacciuolo immediately
went out and found a peddler perfectly well acquaint-
ed with her trade, and addressed her thus: "I wish
you to do me a great kindness, and I will reward you
handsomely." The woman answered, "I will obey
your orders, for I have nothing to look to but to get
money." Bacciuolo gave her a crown-piece, and
said, "I wish you to go to-day to a house in a street
called the Maccarella; there lives a damsel, called
the Lady Giovanna, whom I love more than any other
living creature; and I wish you to get me into
her good graces, and tell her I would gladly do any
thing that might give her pleasure; and say all the
pretty coaxing things, which I am sure you can say
on such occasions; therefore I entreat you to exert
your skill." The little old woman answered, "rest
assured, kind Signior, I will do my best, and find a
favourable opportunity for the purpose." "Go, my
good woman," said Bacciuolo, "and I will wait for
you here." She immediately set forth with her lit
tle basket of trinkets, and went up to the lady, whom
she found sitting at her door to breathe the cool air,
Courtesying to her she said, "Lady, are there any of
these trinkets that you would like to have? Take
whatever you please, lady," said she, and seated
Lierself by the lady, shelving he" some purses, look-
p219

-1

u
(

y m

* ,

a
r
a


THE TEACHER TAUGHT

MPLRVEI LOTJS REPOSITORY

~
~iFi
~ii
'vIi    ~
ij~
I.
ii:
1~i
if
1d~ ~ 1'

ing-gl asses, laces, and other little things; after look-
ing at all the wares, she noticed a purse, and said,
"if I had money about me, I should willingly purchase
that purse." The little woman cried, "La! Ma'ani,
don't think about that, take it if it pleases you, for
every thing in this basket is paid for." The lady
was surprised to hear this, and said, "Good woman,
what do you mean, what are you saying?" The
little old woman, with tears in her eyes, said, "'Why,
Madam, I will tell you. The truth is, a young gen-
tleman, whose name is Bacciuolo, and who is des-
perately in love with you, has sent me. He says,
you are the only creature on earth he loves, and that
he would willingly do any thing to merit your re-
gard, and that to obey any commands of yours ~vill
be the greatest happiness to him. Indeed, I fear he
cannot live unless you allow him to speak to you.
As for my part, I never saw so genteel a youth in
my life." The lady on hearing these things blushed,
and turning to the woman, said, "were it not for
my honour's sake, old woman, I would expose you
to the world, and that would make you repent. Ad
thou not ashamed, thou good-for-nothing old hag, to
come on such an errand to a modest woman, a plague
upon thee !"-and so saying, the lady 5CiZe(l hold of
a stick which lay behind the door to give her a beat-
ing, adding, "if ever thou comes hereagain, I will
beat thee black and blue." Upon which the old
woman quickly packed up her wares, an(l made off
as fast as she could waddle, in a great fright, nor did
she stop on the way till she got to Sign ior Bacciuolo.
XVhen Bacciuolo saw her, he eagerly asked how
matters had gone with her-" Bad enough," said
she, "I never was in such a fright. However, the
case is, she will neither see nor hear you; and bad I
not been pretty c~uick in making off, I should have
had a sound beating. For my part, I will not go
near her again, and I advise you to have nothing
more to do with her."
Bacciuolo was quite broken-hearted at this intel-

ligence, and went to report it to the professor, and
related the whole transaction. "Be not alarmed,
B~tcciuolo, because the oak does not fall at the first
stroke of the axe. There-go past the house this eve-
ning, and observe with what sort of an eye she views
thee; find out, by the kind of glance she casts upon
thee, whether she be angry or no; then come and
tell me." Bacciuolo went forth towards the lady's
house. ~When she saw him, she instantly called her
mai(l, and said to her, "Gpo after that young man,
and tell him to come to speak to me this evening, and
not to fail." So the maid went to him,~ and told him
that the Lady Giovanna desired he would come that
evening to her, as she wished to speak to him. Bac-
ejuolo was in a strange surprise, but answered that
he would most willingly do so; and then immediate-
ly returned to the professor, and informed him of
what had happened. The professor was a little stag-
gered, for somehow or other a suspicion struck him
)
that it might be his own wife, and he thought to him-
self, if it should !-And so it was in fact. "Well,"
said he, "wilt thou go?"-" Certainly," said Bac-
if     cinolo. "Well," said the professor, "when you do
go, go straight from here." "Very well, so I will,"
~aid~Bacciuo1o.
This lady was~ the wife of the professor, but Bac-
cinolo did not know that. The professor, however,
began to feel uneasy; for, in the winter, he used to
sleep at the college to lecture the students late in the
evening, and his wife lived alone with her maid. "I
would not," said the professor, "that this fellow
should learn to make love at my expense~but I Will
know further."
Evening coming on, Bacciuolo came to him, say-
ing, "Good Sir, I am going2'-" \Vell," said the
professor, "speed be with you, but be wise." Bac-
ciuolo said, "leave me alon&amp;for that, you have not
taught me for nothing," and went away. He had
put on a good cuirassand provided himself with a
stout rapier, and a stiletto in his girdle. WheD
7I~

U;.
it
I
I,

if

9


MARVELLOTJ~ REPOSITORY.                             THE TEACHER TAUGHT.

66~
i1 ~t6
H
'1
lB
~66~     I I
i1i~
66

Bacejuolo was gone, the professor followed close at
his heels, Baccinolo little thinking wborn he had got
behind him. WI hen arrived at the door, he tapped
gently, and the lady herself instantly let him in, and
the professor saw, to his astonishment, that it really
was his wife. "Oh! oh! I see," said he, "the feb
low has made his progress at my cost;" and he began
to think of killing him. He went back to the cob
lege, bought a sword and a stiletto, returned furious-
ly to the house, fully determined to make Signior,
Bacciuolo pay for his instructions, and reaching the
door, he began to knock loudly. The lady was seat-
ed by the fire with Bacciuolo, and hearing the knock..
ing, she immediately apprehended it might be her
husband, and therefore concealed her lover under a
1~eap of damp un-ironed linen which had been bun-
(lied up in a corner near the window. She then r~n
to the door, and demanded who was there. "Open
the door, thou wicked woman," cried the professor
from without, "and thou wilt soon know it." The
lady opened the door, and, seeing him with a sword
in his hand, exclaimed, "good heavens! what means
this, my dear Sir?"-" Thou well knowest whom
thou hast in the house," he said. "Good heavens,"
cried the lady, "what is it you mean, are you mad?
Look over the house," she said, " and if you find
any one, I give you leave to execute your threats.
How should I think of conducting myself otherwise
than I always have done; beware, Sir, lest the evil
spirit take possession of you, and lead you to destruc-
tion."
The husband, having got a candle, went looking
about all over the house; in the cellar, behind and
under all the casks, butts, and indeed in every cor-.
ner: then ran up stairs like a madman; searched every
part of the room, but the right one; under the bed,
thrust his sword into every square inch of thebed-
ding, yet could he not find any thing. The lady,
who stuck close to hi~n with a light in her hand, often
repeated to him, "good master1 cross yourself, for

assuredly the evil spirit is in you, and has tempted
you to seek after what does not exist, for if I had the
most distant thought of such wickedness, I would
be the death of myself. rrherefore, I do entreat you
not to suffer yourself to be seduced by such wicked
thoughts." Upon which the professor, unable to
find the object of his search, and hearing what the
lady had said, began to think he was mistaken in his
suspicions, and so put out the light, and returned to
the college.
The lady immediately brought out Bacciuolo from
under the clothes, and lighted a large fire; put on it
a famous fine capon to boil, and they pledged each
other merrily, the lady often saying, "You see, my
good little man has not found us out;" and so they
cheerfully spent some hours together. In the morn-
ing Bacciuolo went to the professor, and said, "Oh,
my good sir! I will make you laugh." "How is
that?" said the professor. "Last night, after I had
been a short time at the lady's house, in came the
husband, and though he hunted every where in search
of me, he could not find me, for she had hidden me
under a heap of damp linen, that were going to be
dried: and the lady talked the poor fellow over so,
that he soon went away; when we had a large capon
for supper, drank some excellent wine, and had the
best fun you can imagine, and I have promised to
return again to night." " Be sure," sai(l the pro-
fessor, "when you go this evening, to let me know."
6    Bacciuolo answered he would, and left the profes.-'
so]'.

The professor meanwhile was in the utmost rage,
and actually beside himself-so much so that he was
not able 'to attend at the classes, he was so broken
hearted. However, he consoled himself with the
idea that he should catch him at night. So he pur-
chased a breast plate, a light armour, and with his
cuirass, rapier, and stiletto, cut quite a martial fig-
ure. When the time came, Bacciuolo innocently
went to the professor, and said, "I am going.~a

I

y.;i s
~ t
~66  ii
6k 6
~

}P I


MARVELLOUS REP~5ITORY.

1d~
41
'2
~1
ji

THE TEACHER TAUGHT.

"VVelI," said the professor, "go, and ~return TO-
MOEIROW, and relate to me what may have happen.
ed." "I will," said Baccinolo, and marched off to
the lady's house. The professor put on his armour
and followed Bacciuolo close at his heels, and thought
of overtaking him at the door. The lady, who was
upon the watch, opened the door quickly, let in her
lover, and shut it again like lightning. When the
professor reached the house he began to knock with
all his might, making a tremendous noise. The lady
in an instant put out the light, and made Baccinolo
slide behind her, opened the door, and clasping her
arms on the neck of her husband, whirled him round
and gave Baccinolo an opportunity of slipping out;
at the same time crying, "help! help! the man is
mad, the man is mad;" still holding the poor gentle-
man tight round the waist. The neighbours, upon
hearing the noise, ran out, and seeing the professor
thus armed at all points, with his huge breast-plate,
cuirass, helmet, long rapier, and stiletto, and the
lady crying out, "Hold him, hold him, he is mad;
he has cracked his brain with study;" thought it was
really true, and that he had lost his wits. They
began fo say to him, "what means all this, good
Signior? go to bed and rest-do not torment yourself
in this way." " How can I rest," he shouted,
"when this wicked woman is harbouring a man in
the house? I saw him go in with my own eyes."
"Oh wretched woman that I am," cried the lady,
"ask these neighbours, all, whether they have ever
witnessed improper conduct in me." They all with
one voice answered, both men and women-" Do not
think, Signior, so base a thing, for never was a bet-
ter woman born than this lady-more virtuous or
more decorous." "How !" said the professor, '~ why
I saw the man enter the house. and I am sure he is
in it now."
In the mean time two of the lady's brothers arriv~
ed, and when she saw them, she burst into tears
and said, my dear brothers! this husband of mine is
2~Z4

raving mad, ~and will have it that I have a man in
the house, and wants to be the death of me, ~nd yo~i
well know whether I am a woman likely to fall into
such abominations." The brothers said to the arm-
ed philosopher, who foamed at the mouth with rage,
"we marvel much, Sir, that you should dare suspect
a sister of ours of such an act, and wonder what can
make you dream of such a thing, having lived with
her so long." "I tell you," said the professor, "that
there is a man in the house, and I have si~r~ him."
"VVell !" said the brothers, "let us hunt him out,
and if he is found here, we will give her such a les-
son as shall make you full amends." One ofthe
brothers drew the lady aside, and said, "Hast thou
in truth really got any one in the house I" "Alas !"
said the lady, "heaven forbid! may I die before I
harbour such thought as no woman 6f our family was
ever guilty of. Art thou not ashamed to put such a
question?" Upon which the brother felt quite hap-
py, and the three went up to search. The professor
directly made for the damp linen, pulled th'~m about,
and stabbed them through and through in every di-
rection, hardly leaving an inch through which he
did not stick his sword, and the while taunting and
insulting Bacciuolo as if he had actually been under
them. "Well," said the lady, "did I not tell you
he was mad? see how he spoils the linen: thou hast
not been at the trouble of getting them up-that is
very clear." The brothers then began to think he
was truly mad, and after seeking eve ry where, and
not finding any one, one brother said, "This fellow
is certainly mad." The other then said," Signior,
in truth you do an infamous injustice to this sister of
ours, in giving her so vile a chardeter." But the
professor, who well knew how matters stood, being
in a rage, began to quarrel violently with them, and
kept his naked sword in his hand. So each of them
took a good stick, and being determined to adminis'.
ter a little wholesome correctionthey laid them about
the poor professor most unmercifully; and when they
Aft

4
I ~


i

MARVJ~LLoUS REPOSITORY.

r~ "~1'~
ii
~
1~
~kp A

THE VENTRILOQ~UIST.

Heaven guard thee, for I have learned so much,
that nothing remains for me to learn; therefore will
I return back to my home as fast as my legs can
carry me."

ANECDOTE OF A VENTRILOQUi5T.

had nearly broken the sticks on his back, they bound
him for a madman, telling every body that he had
cracked his brain by intense study, and so they tied
him up all night. In the morning they sent for the
doctor, who ordered him to be put to bed by a fire,
and desired that be should not speak to any one, or
any one to him, and that particular attention should
be paid to his diet, till he recovered his senses.
The news that the Signior had gone mad soon
spread all over Bologna; every body was much con-
cerned. Some said, "I suspected it would be so, for
he could not attend the lectures the other day."
Others said, "I thought it would be so, I observed
him so materially altered of late." The report was
universally credited, and many went to see him.
Bacciuolo unacquainted with what had taken place,
went in the morning to the college, with the inten-
tion of telling the professor of his adventure; but on
reaching the place, he was told how the Signior had
become mad. Bacciuolo wondered at this, and was
very sorry for it, and went to see him with the rest,
and being arrived at the house, Bacciuolo began to
be staggered, and almost fainted, seeing how things
stood~ but in order to prevent any one noticing how
affected he was, be 'went in with them, and on reach-
ing the apartment, he saw the Signior all over brui-
ses, and chained to the bed. All the Students began
to condole 'with him, and express their sorrow at
seeing him in such a state. Bacciuolo's turn com-
ing, he said, "good Signior, I am as much grieved at
your situation, as though you were my father; and if
I can do any thing to relieve you, Iprayyoudeal
with me as if I were your son." Upon which the
professor answered, "Bacciuclo, Bacciuolo, 1 p~'~y
thee go in peace, for thou' hast learned much at my
cost." The lady prevented farther discourse, by
saying, "do not minil him, for he has lost his wits,
and does not know what he says." f~acciuolo then
departed; and came to Paolo, ard said, "Brother,
226

I

I

7

TriosE persons who speak without moving the lips,
and who modify their voice so as to make it appear to
proceed from different'places oi~ persons, while them-
selves seem unconnected with what is passing, are
called ventriloquists. Bordeau, who was a learned
critic of the sixteenth century, relates the following
anecdote.
Louis Brabant was valet-de-chambre to Francis
I. and accosted a widow, with whose daughter (a
rich and handsome heiress) he was in love, in a
voice perfectly resembling that of her dead hus-
band, exclaiming, "Give my daughter in marr~a ge
to Louis Brabant. I now endure the inexpressible
torments of purgatory, for having refused her to him;
you will thus provide a worthy husband for your
daughter, and procure everlasting repose to the soul
of your poor husband."
The widow could not, for a moment, resist so
dreadful a summons, but immediately received Louis
4      for her son-in-law; when the formalities of his mar-
riage rendering it necessary for him to exhibit some
show of riches, he contracted an intimate acquaint-
ance 'with one Cornu, an old 'and rich banker at
Lyons, and during an interval of silence, after a
preparatory conversation on demons and spectres, a
voice was heard, which, to the astonished banker,
seemed to be that of his deceased father.
It complained, as in the former case, of his dread-
ful situation in purgatory, and called upon his son,
"to deliver him instantly, by putting into the hands

I
I:~
4
A'
f'i ~'
~ i


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

ii
~i 4~
~ I
~t ,~I
*1
t:~I ~; ~
'~Ii t

NARROW ESCAPE.

A distinguished gentleman of Pensylvania, whe~
nose and chin were both very long, and who had lost
his teeth, wherelb-y the no~e and chin were brought
near together, wa4 told, "I am afraid your nose an~
chin will fight before long; they reproach each other
very menacing." "I am afraid of it myself," repli
ed the gentleman, "for a great many words hav~
passed between them already."
228

CAPTAIN UNDERJIILL.

of Louis Brabant, a sum for the redemption, from
the Turks, of the Christians theti in slavery; and
threatened him with eternal damnation, if he did
not take this method of expiating his own sins;"
when the wary banker, demurring to the demand,
made an appointment with the ghost's delegate for.
the next day; and, to render any design ol' iniposing
upon him utterly abortive, he took Louis into the
open fields, where no confederate could l)ossihly be
concealed; hut, wherever the banker conducted hi~
associate, his ears were assaulted with the complaints
and groans, not only of his father, but of all his de-
ceased relations, imploring him, for the love of God,
and in the name of every saint in the calendar, to
have mercy on his own soul and theirs, by effectually
seconding, with his purse, the intentions of his wor-
thy companion; until Cornu, who could no longer
resist the voice of heaven, carried his guest home,
and gave him the sum often thousand crowns.
The secret, however, was made public some time
and the usurer was so much affected by
ihe loss of his money, and the mortifying raillerie
of his neighbours, that he took ~o his bed, and died

AN ACCOUNT OF CAPTAIN JOHN UNDERHYLL-SELECT-
ED FROM THE LIFE AND ADVENTUIIF'.5 OF DOCTOR
UPDIKE UNDIIRIIILL.
I DERIVE my birth from one of the first emigrants
to New England, being lineally descended from Cap~
lain .John Underhill, who came into the Massachu-
setts in the year one thousand six hundred and thir-
ty; of whoi~honourahle mention AS made by that ele-
gant, accurate, and interesting historian, the Reve'.
ren(l Jeremy Belknap, in his History of New
Hampshire.
My honoured ancestor had early imbibed an ar-
(lent love of liberty, civil and religious, by his ser-
vice as a soldier among the Dutch, in their glorious
and successful struggle for freedom, with Philip the
second of Spain; when, though quite a youth, he
l~eld a commission in the Earl of Leieester's own
troop of guards, who was then sent to the assistance
ogthat brave people, by the renowned Queen Eliza-
neth of England.
The extravagant passion, which that princess was
sul)posed to entertain for various male favourites,
which occasioned the disgrace of one, and the pee-
mature death of another, while it has furnished a
darling theme to the novelist, and has been wept
over in the tragic scene, has never yet received the
sober sanction of the historian.
A traditional family anecdote, while it places the
affection of the queen for Leicester beyond doubt,
may not be unpleasing to the learned reader, and
may benefit the English historiographer.
It is well known that this crafty queen, though
repeatedly solicited, never efficaciously assisted the
Netherlanders, until their affairs were apparently at
the lowest ebb, and they in such desperate circum
stances, as to offer the sovereignty of their country
to her general, the Earl of Leicester. Captain Un
U                  ~29

ti Ii~
P
~

ii
ii
4

II
t ~I


MARVELLOUS REPOSIToRY.

jj34
1~34 134
A~j; j
~     41
r
1441
~ 4
~444 34
it
t34A'34i
t144'14
'434k
11'
it
2!
~1t I
334
344 14
341
1      34

CAPTAIr( UNI)ERHIIL.

derhill carried the dispatches to England, and de-
dvered them at the office of Lord Burleigh. The
same evening, the queen sent for the captain, an(l,
with apparent perturb&amp;ition, enquired of him, if he
was the messenger from Leicester, and whether he
had any prh~ate dispatches for her. He replied,
that he had delivered all his letters to the Secretary,
of State. She appeared much disappointed, and,
after musing some time, said, "So Leicester wants
to be a king."4 Underhill, who was in the general's
con fidenc~, replied that the Dutch had indeed made?
the offer of the sovereignty of their country to her
gerieral-esteemi ng it a great honour, as they said,
to have a subject of her grace for their sovereign.
No, replied the queen, it is notihe'Dutch; they hate
kings and their divine right; it is the proud Leices
,ter, who yearns to be independent of his own
sovereign, who moves this insolent proposal.-
Tell him, from me, that he must learn to obey
before he is fit to govern. Tell, him, added
the queen, softening her voice, that obedience may
make ,him a king indeed. Immediately after Cap-
tain Underhill had taken the public despatches, the
queen sent for him to her privy closet, recalled her
verbal message, delivered him a letter for Leicestei',
directed with her own hand, and a purse of one hun-
dred crowns for himself' charging him to enclo~e
the letter in lead, sink it in case of danger' in his
passage by sea, and to deliver it privately. Ow the
receipt of this letter, Leices~er was violently agi-
tated, walked his chamber the whole of the ensuing
night. Soon after, he resigned his command, and
returned to England, animated by the brightest
hopes of realizing the lofty suggestions of his ambi-
tion. With him Captain Underbill returned, and
upon the deceased of the Earl of Leicester, attached
himself to the fortunes of the Earl of Essex, the un-
fortunate successor to Leicester, in the queen's fa-
vour. He accompanied 'that gallant nobleman in
his successful attack upon Cadiz, and shared his
230

(

ill fortune in his fepitless expedition against Tyr
ronne, the rebel chief of the revolted clans of Ire-
land; and, returning with the Earl into England,
by his attachment to that imprudent nobleman, sal-
lying into the streets of' London, in the 1)etty insur-'
rection, which cost Essex his head, he was obliged
to seek safety in Holland, until the accession of
King James, in one thousand six hundred and three,
when he applied for pardon, and leave to return to
his native counti'y. But that monarch entertained
such an exalted4 idea of the dignity of kings, and
from policy, affected so great a veneration for the
memory of his predecessor, that no interest of his
friends could procure his par(lon for an offence,
which, in this day and ~~ountry, would be consider-
ed a simple rout or riot, and punished with a small
fine, in that age of kingly glory was supposed to
combine treason and blasphemy: treason against
the queen in her political capacity, and blasphemy
against her, as God's representative and vicegerent
on earth.
The reverend Mr. Rohinsonwith a number of other
pious puritans, having fled from the persecuting fury
of the English prelates, to Holland, in one thousand
six hundred and three, he dwelt and communed
with them a number of years. He was strongly so.
elicited to go with Governor Carver, Elder Brewster,
and the other worthies, part of Mr. Robinson's
church, to the settlement of Plymouth, and had
/        partly engaged with them, as their chief military
officer; hut, Captain Miles Standish, his brave fellow
soldier in the low countries, undertaking the busi-
ness, he declined.
How he joined Governor Winthrop, does not ap-
pear, but he came over to New England with him,
apd soon after we fin1l him disciplining the Boston
militia, where he was held in such high estimation,
t1~at he was chosen to represent that town in the
general court; but, his ideas of religious toleration
being more liberal than those around him, he lost
231

3' 1i4

44
4  4

1
4
6


I
~ t

MARVI~LL0US R~P0SIT0RV
his popularity, and was, on the twentieth of' Novem
her, one thousand six hundred and thirty seven, dis
franchised and eventually banished the jurisdictioui
of Massachusetts
The writers of those times differ, as to the par-
ticular offence for which he was punished. Some
say it was for holding the Antinornian tenets of the
celebrated Ann Hatchinson, others that the charge
against him was for saying, That the government at
Bost~~ were as zealous as the SC)'ibes and phariseeg,
and as Paul before his conversion The best ac-
count I h~ive been able to collect, is, that at the time
when the zeal of our worthy forefathers burned the
hottest against heretics and sectaries, when good
Roger XVilliams, who settled Providence, the pious
~Vheelwright, and others, were banished, he, with
about sixty other imprudent persons, who did not
believe in the then popular arguments, of fines, mi-
prisonment, disfranchisement confiscation, banish-
ments, arid halters, for the conversion of infidels,
Supposed that the Christian faith, which had spread
SO wonderfully in its infancy, when the Sword of
civil power was drawn against it, in that age, sur-
rounded by numerous proselites, needed n~ot the
same sword unsheathed in its favour. These mis-~
taken people signed a remonstrance against the vio-
lent Proceedings, which were the order of that (lay.
William Aspinwall and John Co ggeshe 11, two of the
Boston representatives who signed the remon
strance, were sent home, and the town ordered to
choose others in their room. Some of the remon~
strands recanted, some were fined, some were dis..
franchised, and others, among whom was Captain
Underhill, were banished.
It is said, by some authors, that he was charged
with the heinous crime of adultery, and that he
even confessed it. The candid American author,
above named, has fallen into this error. As I am
Sure it must have given him pain to speak cvii even

CAPTAIN UNDERHILL.
of the dead, so I am certain he will rectify thi3 mis-
take in the next edition of his invaluable history.
That author informs us, page forty-three of his
first volume, "That he, Captain Underhill, was pri-
irately dealt with, on suspicion of adultery, which
he disregarded, and therefore, on the next sabbath,
was questioned for it, before the church; but the
evidence not being sufficient to convict him, the.
church could only admonish him."-Page forty-five,
"He ivent to Boston, and in the same public manner
acknowledged his adultery. But his confession was
mixed with so many excuses and extenuations, that
it gave no satisfaction."
The unwary reader would perhaps conclude, that
actual adultery was intended, as w~1l a'~ expressed,
in these extracts. The reverend author himself,
did not advert to the idea, that the moral law of
Boston, in one thousand six hundred and thirty
seven, was not so lax as the moral law of the same
place, in one thousand seven hundred afl(I eighty
four, as explained by the practice of its inhabitants.
The rigid discipline of our fathers of that era,
often construed actions, expressions, and sometimes
thoughts, into crimes; which actions, in this (lay,
even the most precise would consider either inno-
cent, indifferent, or beneath the dignity of official
notice. The fact is, that Captain Ijndeihill, so far
from confessing, was never charged with coin emitting
actual statute book adultery. At a certain lecture
in Boston, instead of noting the referred texts in his
bible, according to the profitable custom oft he times,
this gallant soldier had fixed his eyes steadfastly, and
~erhapsinordinately, upon one Mistress Miriam
herself ~, who, it seems, was, at that very time,
in the breach of the spirit of an existing law,
which forbade women to appear in 1)ublic with un~
covered arms and necks, by appearing at the same
lecture with a pair of wanton open worked gloves,
slit at the thumbs and fingers, for the convenlency
of taking snuff; though she was not charged with
U2                 283

4
[1B;~

.i

i


MARVELLOUS REPoSIrollY.

I
i ~h
~
4
I

CAPTAIN TINPF1RITILL.

the latter crime of using tObaccO. It was the adul4
tery of the heart, of which my gallant ancestor was
accused, and ton nde(1 on that I ext of sen ~t nrc,
" Whosoever looketh on a woman to Inst a-ftci' her,
hath committed adultery with her already in his
heart."
I have fortunately' discovered, past('(l on the hack
of' an old Ifl(hiafl deed, a iiiaiinscnpt~ which reflects
li~ht
great      upon my ancestor's conduct, and on the
transaction~ of those times; which, according to the
beneficial mode of modern historians, I shall tran~.
scribe literally.
It should be premise(l, that in the year one thou-
sand six hundred and thirty SiX, the governor, (IC-
puty governor, three assistants, and three miii r4ers,
among whom was Hugh Peters, afterwards hung
and quartered in England, for his adherence to
Oliv~r Cromwell, were entreated by the Massachu-
setts court, to make a draft of laws, agre cable to the
word, of God, to report to the next general court;
and, in the interim, the magistrates were directed
to determine causes according to the lai~~ then
established, and where no laws existed, then as near
to the word of God as they could.
(In dorsed,)
IIROTHER tTNDERHILL' 5 EPISTLE.
To Master Ilanserd Knoilys-these greeting.
Worthee and Bc1or~ed,
Remembrin my kind love to Mr. Hilton, I now
send yoa some note of my tryalls at Boston.-Oh
that I may come out of this, and al the lyke tryalls,
as goold seven times puryfyed in the furnace.
After the rulers at Boston had favied to fastenne
what Roger Harlakenden was phea"sed to call the
damning errors of Anne Hutchinson upon me, I
looked to be sent away in peace; hut Governour
Winthrop savd I must abide the examining of ye
church; accordingly, on the thyrd day of ye weeke,



iy

I was COnVened before thein.-Sir I-larry Vane, the
governor, Dudley, f[aincs, with masters Cotton,
Shepherd, an(l Hugh Peters present, with others~-.
rj11~)y pl'op(flln(led that I was to he examined,
touching a certain act of adultery I had committed,
with one mistress Miriam Wilbore, wife of Samuel
\Vilhore, fbi' carnally looking to luste after her, at
the lecture in Boston, when Master Shepherd ex~
Ollfl(lC(l.-rlIiS mistress Miriam bath since been
open workt glovesslit at the thumbs afl(l fing-
with, for coming to that lecture with a pair of
Crs, for the ii'v~ of taking snuff; for, as master Cot
ton observed, for what Cfl(1 should those vain open~
ings he hut for the intent of taken filthy sniff; and he
quote(l GregoryNazianzen upon good works. Master
Peters said, that these openings were Satan~s port
boles of firy temptatione. Mistress Miriam offered
in excuse of her i am attire, that she w as newle mar
ned, and appeared in her bridal arrayed. Master
Peters said, that marriage was the occasion that the
Devil took to caste his firy darts, and lay his pit falls
of te-ruptation, to catches frale flesh and blood. She
is to be further dealt with for taken snuff. How
the use of the good creature tobacco can be an of~
fence I cannot see.-Oh my beloved, how these
prowde pharisees labour about the minte and cmii-
mine. Governor Winthrop inquired of mee, if I
confessed the matter. I said I wished a coppy of
there charge.-Sir Harry Vane said, there was no
neede of any coppie, seeing I knew I was guiltie
Charges being made out where there was an uncer-
tainty whether the accused was guiltie or not, and
to lighten the accused into the nature of his crvme.
ere was no need. Master Cotton said, did you not
.ook upon mistress Wilbore? I confessi that I did.
He said, then you ar~ verelie guiltie, brother Un-
derhill. I said nay, I did not look at the woman
lustfully. Master Peters said, why did von not look at
sister Newell or sister Upham? I sold, ecrelie they
are not desirable women, as to temporal graees.~

ii
4


I

*1
~ ii

MAUVI~LLOUS itEP0SITOICV~.                                      CAPTAIN UNDERHILL.

Then hugh Peters and al 'crye(l, it is enough, he
bath confessed, and passed to excomimiflic~tlOfl. I
savd where is the la~v by which you con(lerflne me.
\i~throp said, there is a commute to (lI'aft laws.
Brother Peters are you not on that committee, I am
sure you have maude a law against e Us ci' inge sin.
Hugh Peters replyed that he had such a law in
mmdc, but had not written ii (mime. Sir Harry
Vane said, it is sufficient. hlaynes said, ay, into
enough for ant inomians. Master Cotton tooke a bi-
ble from his coate and read, whoso looketh on a wo
man, &amp;c.
William Blaxton* hath been with me privelie, he
weeps over the crying sins of the times, and expect-
eth soone to goc out of the jurisdiction. I came
from England, sais he, because I did not like the
lords bishops, but I have yet to prayc to be deliver-
ed from the lords bretherenne.
Salute brother Fish, and others, who having
been disappointed of liberties in this wilderness are
ernestlie looking for a better country.
Your fellow traveller in this vale of tears.
JOHN UNDERHILL.
Boston, 28th 4th month, 1683.
It is ivith great reluctance I am induced to pub-
lish this letter, which appears to reflect upon the
justice of the proc~'dings of our forefathers. I
would rather, like the sons of Noah; go backwards,
~ When our forefathers first came to Boston, they found this
William Blaxton in the possession of the site, where the town
now stands. The general court, April 1st, 1633, granted him
fifty acres of land, near where his house stood; supposed to be
where the pest house in Boston formerly stood.-He afterwards
removed to Rhode Island, and lived near Whipple's bridge in
Cumbprland.-He planted the first orchard in that district, the
fruit of which was eaten of one hundred and fo~ty years after
wards, and some of the trees are now standirig2 lie had been
a minister of the church of En~zland, preached often at Provi.
dence, and died in a good old age, ro uch lamented.
236

and east a garment over our fathers' nakedness; but
the impartiality of a historian, and the natural soli
citude to wipe the stains from the memory of my
honoured ancestor, will excuse me to the candid.
Whoever reflects upon the piety of our forefathers,
the noble unrestrained ardour, with which they re-
sisted oppression in England, relinquished the de-
lights of their native country, crossed a boisterous
ocean, penetrated a savage wilderness, encountered
famine, pestilence, and Indian warfare, and trans-
mitted to us their sentiments of independence, that
love of liberty, which, under God, enabled us to ob-
tain our own, glorious freedom, will readily pass over
those few dark spots of zeal, which clouded their
rising sun.
When the sentence of banishment was passed on
Captain Underhill, he returned to Dover, in New
Hampshire, and was elected governor of the Euro-
pean settlers there' but, notwithstanding his great
service to the peop1~ of Massachusetts, in the Pe-
quod wars, his persecutors in Boston would not at-
low him to die in peace. First, by writing injuri-
ous letters to those he governed; by threats of their
power; and lastly, by determining that Dover was
within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, they forced
him to flee to Albany, then possessed by the Dutch,
under the name of Amboyna.
The Dutch were highly pleased with the Captain,
and after Dutchifying his nafl~e into Captain Hans
Van Vanderhill, they gave him a command of one
hundred and twenty men, in their wars with the
natives, It is said that he killed one hundred and
fifty Indians on Long Island, and upwards of three
hundred on the Main. The laurels of the famous
Colonel Church wither in comparison. The Dutch
granted him fifty thousand acres of land, then in
their possession. Although the English, when they
took possession of that country for the Duke of York,
afterwards James the Second, had promised to quiet
the claims of the settlers; yet Captain Underhill, oi
237

'I
lx

I ~(4
II
r 1

t


j

NIARVELLOUS REPt)5ITORY.

1
L
Lift a

ANECDOTE OF THE EMPEROR JOSEPH I!.

QNJ~ day, as the emperor was walking in the
Prater, at Vienna, as he often does alone, without
any suite, he met a young woman, whom he did not
know, and who seemed in great affliction; I think
she was even lamenting her fate very bitterly~,~vith~
out suspecting by whom she was overheard. Joseph
approached her, and inquired into the cause of her
lamentations.. The young woman, perceiving a per-
son unknown to her, who seemed to take an interest
in her sorrows, related to him, with much simple
city, thatcher father, an officer in-~--l know not what
regiment, having been killed in the service of the
empress-queen, her mother, having no one to pro
288

JOSEPH 11.

his posterity, nave never availed themselves of the
grant.-Mentioning this circumstance, sometime
since, in Hartford, some gentlemen immediately of..
fered to raise a company a~nd purchase my right. 1
candidly confessed that I was r~ot 1)O55eS5e(l of the
title, and knew not the particular spot where the
land lay, and consequently was unwlllLng to sell
land without fitle or boundaries. To my surprise,
they laughed at my scruples, and observed that they
wanted the land to speculate upon, to seii, and not
to settle. Titles and boundaries, in such cases, I
understood, were indifferent matters, mere trifles.
My brave ancestor, at an advanced ,age, die(l in
Albany, leaving two sons; the youngest ol whom re-
moved to the mouth of the Hudson, where some of
his posterity flourish respectably to this day. The
eldest son, Benoni, from whom I am descended,
some years after his father's decease, after being the
subject of various misfortunes, return ed, inimpover
ished circumstances, to New Hampshire, where the
family have continued ever since.

tect hr, or take any interest in her behalf, had fall.
en into great distress, and this had been considera-
bly increased by the late scarcity. She added,
that having been supported principally by the work
of their own han&amp;~;, this resource was now about to
fail, since the hardness of the times, daily diminish-
ed the number of those by whom their works could
be purchased, so that she was fearful they might
soon be reduced to the utmost misery. The em-
peror inquired whether they had ever received any
assistance from the government?-She answered,
none.-He then inquired why her mother had never
thought of soliciting the emperor for relief, as he was
so easy of access?-They say he is avaricious, she
replied, and we therefore thought that such a step
would be useless. The monarch profited by the les-
son thus innocently given him; he gave the young
woman some ducats and a ring, telling her that he
had . the honour of being in the emperor's service,
and would endeavor to recommend her to his ma-
jesty. He then appointed a day and an hour, on which
he desired her to come, with her mother, to the em-
peror's apartments, as he should be on duty that
day, and. he hoped he might be able to bring her
some good news. He added that she need only
present the ring he had given her, she would then
be admitted into the emperor's private apartment,
where, he concluded, you will find me. The young
woman thought she had been talking to a tutelary
angel, nor was she mistaken, and, hastening home,
immediately imparted the fortunate adventure she
had met with to her mother. The emperor, in the
mean time, mjde inquiries into the truth of the
young woman's story, and finding it confirmed, he
waited for the moment he had appointed to receive
her in his private apartment. She did not fail to
con~ie, with her mother, in hopes of finding her
benefactor, and returning him the ring~; she, indeed,
knew him again, the moment she saw him, but at
the same time, she perceived, by the respect paid
239

~T? 1

4
L ~
4

1


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

him, that it was the emperor himself. She then
called to mind, what she had said on the subject of
his avarice, and turned pale with apprehension.
His imperial majesty bade her not be alarmed; and
then, informing, the mother that he had settled a
pension upon he~, from the army funds, he turned to
the daughter, ai~d said: Bnother time I hope you will
not despair of a het*rt that is just; words worthy of
being enrolled in the archives of humanity.

{A
II
4 I
N1
ii  A
~j~i ~
~' r
I ~
1 ~
11
~II
t11t
~

TH~
4U4~TE IIPARTS.

MESSER Basilio, of Milan, who had fixed his re*
sidence in Pisa, on his return from Paris, where he
had pursued the study of physic, having accumulat-
ed, by industry and extraordinary skill, a good for-.
tune, married a young woman of Pisa, of very ~4en-
der fortune, and fatherless and motherless; by her
he had three soils, and a daughter who in due time
was married in Pisa; the eldest son was likewise
married, the younger one was at school; the middle
one, whose name was Lazarus, although great- sums
had been spent upon his education, made nothing of
it; he was naturally idle and stupid, of a s6ur and
melancholy disposition; a man of few words, and
obstinate to such a degree, that if once he had said
ItlO to any thing, nothing upon earth could make him
alter his mind. His father, finding him so extreme-
ly troublesome, determined to get rid of him, and
sent h~m t~ a beautiful estate he had lately bought
at a small distance from town. There he lived con-
tented, more proud of the society of clowns and clod-
poles, than the acquaintance of civilized people.
\Yhile Lazarus was t.hus living quietly in his own
way, ther~ happened about ten years after, a dread..
ful mortality in Pisa; people were seized with a vio-
lent fever, they then fell into a sleep suddenly, and
died in that state. The disease was catching; Ba-
siho, as well as other physicians, exerted their ut-
most skill, as well for their own interest as the gen-
eral good; but ill fortune would have it that he
caught the infection and died. The contagion was
such that not one individual of the family esd~apcd
W         A16      241

TWO PAILS OF WATER.
TirE Royal Society, on the day of its creation,
was thewhet$one of the wit of their patron, Charles
11. With a peculiar gravity of countenance, he
proposed to the assembly the following question, for
their solution :-" Suppose two pails of water were
fixed in two different scales, ecpally poised, and
which weighed equally ~ilike, and that two live
bream, or small lish, were put into either of these
pails, he wanted to know the reason why that pail,
~with such addition, should not weigh more than the
other pail which stood against it."-Every one was
ready, to set at quiet the royal curiosity; but it ap-
peared that every one was giving a different opi-
nion. One, at length, offered so ridiculous a solution
that another of the members could not refrain from
a loud laugh; when the King, turning to him, insist
ed that he should give his sentiments as well as the
rest. This he did without hesitation, and told his
Majesty, in plain terms, that he denied the fact.
On which the King, in high mirth, exclaimed,
"Odds fish, brother, you are in the right !"
~4O

1 J

an

i


*

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

~I~L if~
~
$~j~
~ifj~P ~
Hi
4, i~ if
A
I;
'S
4..
I
F
liii,  ~
rA~e
I  IC    4
Si i'
"1~~

THE COUNTERPARTS.

death, except an old woman servant. The raging
disease having ceased at last, Lazarus was induced
to return to Pisa, where he inherited the extensive
estates and riches of his father. Man~r were the ef-
forts niade by the different families to induce him to
marry their daughters, notwithstanding they were
aware of his boorish disposition; but nothing would
avail. He said he was resolved to wait four years
before he would marry; so0that his obstinate dispo-
sition being well known, they ceased their importu-
nities. Lazarus, intent upon pleasing himself alone,
would not associate with any living soul. There
was, however, one poor man, named Gabrie l,~who
lived in a small house opposite to him, with his wife
Dame Santa. This poor fellow was an excellent
fisherman and birdcatcher, mad~ nets, &amp;c. and what
with that, and the assistance or his wife, who spun,
he made ~shift to keep his family, consisting~ of two
children, a boy of five; ai~d a girl of three years old.
Now it happened that this Gabriel was a perfect
likeness of Lazarus; both were red haired, had the
same length of beard, every feature, size, gait, and
voice so perfectly alike, that one would have sworn
they were twins;, and had they both been dressed
alike, certainly no one but would have mistaken the
one for the other; the wife herself would have been /
receivedd, but for the clothes-those of Lazarus be-
in g fine cloth, and her husband's of coarse wool of a
different colour. Lazarus, observing this extraor-
dinary resemblance, could not help fancying that
there must be something~ in it, and began to famil-
iarise himself with his society, sent his wife presents
of eatables, wines, &amp;c. and often invited Gabriel to
dinner or supper with.him. Gabriel, though poor and
untaught, was shrewd and. sagacious, and knew well
how to get on the blind side of any one; he so hu-
moured him, that at last Lazarus could not rest an
instant without his company. One day, after din-
ner, they entered into conversation on the subject of
fishing, and the different modes of catching fish, and
242

4i1,i
4..

at last came to the fishing by diving with small netu
fastened to the neck and arms; and Gabriel told hin*
of the immense numbers of large fish which were
caught in that manner, insomuch that Lazarus be-
came very anxious to know how one could fish div.~
ing, and begged of him to let him see how he (lid it.
Upon which Gabriel said he was very willing, and
it being a hot summer's day, they might easily take
the sport, if he too were willing. Having risen from
table, Gabriel marched out, fetched his nets, and.
away they went. They arrived on the borders of
the Arno, in a shady place surrounded by elders;
there he requested Lazarus to sit and look on. After
stripping, and fastening the nets about him, he div~.
ed ip the river, and being very expert at the sport, he
soon rose again with eight or ten fish of terrible size
in his nets. Lazarus could not think how it ~vas
possible to catch so many fish under water; it so as-
tonished him, that he determined to try it himselC.
The day was broiling hot, and he thought it would
cool him. By the assistance of Gabriel he undressed,
and the latter conducted him in at a pleasant part
of the shore, where the water was scarcely knee
deep. There he left him with nets, giving him
charge to go no farther than the stake which he point..
ed oat to him. Lazarus, who had never before been
in the water, was delighted at its coolness, and ob-
serving how often Gabriel rose up with nets full of
fish, bethought himself one must see under as well
~ above water, otherwise it would be impossible to
catch the fish ifl the dark, therefore, in order to as-
certain the point, without thinking of consequences,
he put his head under water, and dashed forward
beyond the stake. Down he went like a piece of
lead; not aware lie should hpld his breath and know-
ing nothing of swimming, he struggled hard to raise
himself above the surface. He was almost stifled
with the water he had swallowed, and was carried
away by the current so that he very shortly lost
his senses. Gabriel, who was very busy watchingg a
243

4
s


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

~
~
; 1
I
* i
-41

THE COUNTERPARTS.

great )leal of fish in a very good place, did not care
to leave it; there fore, poor Lazarus, after rising half
dead two or three times, sunk at last never to rise
again. Gabriel, after he had got as much fish as he
thought would do for him, joyfully turned round to
show Lazarus his sport; he looked round and did
not see him, he then sought him every where, but
not finding him, he became quite alarmed, and ter.-
rifled at the sight of the poor fellow's clothes that
were laid on the bank. He dived, and sought the
body, and found it at last driven by the current on
the beach- at the sight he almost lost his senses; he
stood motionless, not knowing what to do, for he
feared, that in relating the truth, people would think
it was all a lie, and that he had drowned him, him-
self, in order to gethis money. Driven thus almost
to despair, a thought struck him, and he determined
to put it in instant execution. There was no wit..
ness to the fact, for every one was asleep, it being
the heat of the day; he, therefore, took the fish, and,
put them safe in a basket, and for that purpose, took
the dead body on his shoulders, heavy as it was, laid
him on some grass, put his own breeches on the dead
limbs, untied the nets from his own arms, and tied
them tight to the arms of the corpse. This done, he
took hold of him, dived into tho water, and tied him
fast with the nets to the stake inder water. He
then came on shore, slipped on Lazarus' shirt, and
all his clothes, and even Ii is fine shoes, and sat him-
self down on a bank, determining to try his luck
first in saving himself from his perilous situation,
and next to try whether he might not, from his ex-
treme likeness to Lazarus, make his fortune and live
at ease. Being a bold and sagacious fellow, he im-
mediately undertook the daring and dangerous ex-
periment, and began to cry out with all his might
and main, "Oh-! good people, help! help! run afl(l
help the poor fisherman, who is drowning." He
roared out so, that at last the miller, who lived n&amp;
far oW~ came running with I know not how many of
244

4

~I'~I ~I
~Ii

his men. Gabriel spoke with a gruff voice, the bets
~r to imitate that of Lazarus, and weepingly relat.
ed that the fisherman, after diving and catching a
good de~l of' fish, had gone aAain, and that ashe had
been a~ ove an hour under water, he was afraid be
was drowned; they, enquiring what part of the river
he had gone to, he showed them the stake and place.
The miller, who could swim very well, rushed in
towards the stake, and found the corpse, but being
unable to extricate it from the stake, rose up again
and cried out, "Oh l yes he is dead sure enough, but
I cannot get him up by myself:" upon which tivo
others stripped, and got the body~out, whose arms
and limbs were lacerated by the nets, which (as
they thought) had entangled him, and calmed his
death. The news being spread abroad, a priest
came, the corpse was put in a coffin and carried to a
small church, that it might be owned by the family
of Gabriel. The dreadful news had already reached
Pisa, and the unfortunate wife, with her weeping
children, came to the church, and there beholding
her beloved husband, as she thought, she hung over
him, wept; sobbed, tore her hair, and l)ecame al-
most frantic, insomuch that the bystanders were
moved to tears. Gabriel, who was a most loving
husband and father, could scarce refrain fiorn weep-
ing; and seeing the extreme affliction of his wife,
came forward, keeping Lazarus' hat over his eyes,
and his handkerchief to his face as it were to wipe
away his tears, and approaching the widow, who
took him, as well as others, for Lazarus, he said, in
the hearing of the people, "good woman, do not giie
way to such sorrow, nor weep so, for I will not for-.
sake you; as it was to oblige me, and afford me plea-.
sure, that he went a fishing to-day against his incli-
nation, methinks it is partly to me he owed his death,
therefore I will ever be a friend to thee and thine;
al~ expenses shall be paid, therefore return home and
be comforted, for while I live thou shalt never want,
and should I die I will leave thee enough to make
W2                 24~

~44

-4,4
4

'p
'-4'-
Or

0'

Q


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

I ~fl
111
V
~VK ii
4

THE COU2rJTERPARTS,

thee as comfortable as any of thy equals." Thus he
went on, weeping and sobbing, as if regretting the
loss of Gabriel, and really agonized by the distress
of his widow. He was inwardly praised by all pre..
sent, who believed him to be Lazarus.
The poor widow, after the funeral was performed,
returned to Pisa, much comforted by the promises
of him, whom she considered as her neighbour Laza-
rus. Gabriel, who had been long acquainted with
the deceased's ways, manners, and mode of living,
entered Lazarus' house, as if the master of it; with-
out uttering a syllable, ascended into a very beauti-
ful room that looked over a fine garden, pulled out
of the dead man's coat he had on a bunch of keys,
and opened several chests, and finding some smaller
keys, he opened several desks., bureaus, and money
chests, and found, independent of trunks filled with
cloth, linen and jewel~, which the old father, the
physician, and brothers of the deceased had left,
Early to the value of two thousand gold forms, and
four hundred of silver. He was in raptures all the
night, and began to think of the best means to con-
ceal himself from the servants, and appear as the
real Lazarus. About the hour of supper he came
out of his room, weeping; the servants, who had
he~xrd the dreadful situation of the Widow Santa,
and that it was reported that their master had partly
been the cause of the accident, were not much sur-
prised at seeing hinvthus afflicted, thinking it was
on account of Gabriel. He called the servant and
desired him to take a couple of loaves, two bottles
of wine, and half his supper to the Widow Santa,
the which the poor widow scarcely touched. When
the servant returned, Gabriel ordered supper, but ate
sparingly, the better to deceive the servants, as
Lazarus was a very little eater; then left the room
without saying a word, and shut himself up in his
own room as the deceased used to do. The servants
thought there was some alteration in his countenance
and voice, but attributed it to the sorrowful event
246

I

i t~

that had occurred. The widow, after having tasted
of the supper, and considering the care that had been
taken of her, and the promises made hy Lazarus, be-
gan to take comfort, parted with her relations, who
had come to condole with her, and retired to bed
Gabriel, full of thought, could not sleep a wink, and
got up in the morning at Lazarus' usual hour, and
in all things imitated him. But being informed by
the servants that Santa was always in grief, weep-
ing and discomforted, and being a fond husband, and
loving her tenderly, he was miserable upon hearing
this, and determined to comfort her. Thus resolved,
one day after dinner he went to her, and found a
cousin of her's with her. Having given her to un-
derstand he had some private business with her, the
cousin knowing how much she was indebted to him,
and her expectations, left the room, and departed,
saying, he begged she would he advised by her wor-
thy neighbour.
As soon as he was gone, he shut the door, went into
his room and motioned her to follow; she, struck
with the singularity of the case, and fearing for her
honor, did not know what to do, whether she should,
or she should not follow; yet thinking of his kindness,
and the hopes she had from his liberality, and taking
her eldest son by the hand, she went into the room,
where she found him lying on a little bed, on whicE
her husband used to lie when tired; upon which she
started and stopped. Gabriel, seeing her come with
her son, smiled with pleasurable feelings at the pun..
ty of his wife's conduct; one word that he uttered,
which he was in the habit of using, staggered the
poor Santa, so that she could not utter a syllable.
Gabriel, pressing the poor boy to his breast, said,
"thy mother weeps unaware of thy happy fate, her
own, and her husband's." Yet not daring to trust
himself before him, though but a child, he took him
into the next room, gave him money to ~)lay with,
and left him there. Returning to his wife, who had
caught his words, and partly recognized him, he
247

~i I
VI

(


i

7-

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

~I 1~ii
ii 1~
~
I
C I
II

TIlE COUNTERPARTS.

double-locked the door, and related to her Cl ery
circumstance that bad happened, and how he had
managed every thing; she, delighted and convinced
from the repetition of certain family secrets, known
to themselves alone, embraced him, giving him as
m~ny kisses as she had bestowed tears for his death,
for both were loving and tenderly attached. After
reciprocal marks of each other's affection, Gabriel said
to her that she must be perfectly silent, and pointed
out to her how happy their life would hereafter prove;
he told her of the riches he had found, and what h~
intended to do, the which highly delighted her. In
going out, Santa pretended to cry on opening the
street door, and said aloud, that she might he heard
by the neighbours, CC ~ recommend these poor father-
less children to you, Signior!" to which he answered,
"fear not, good Mrs. Santa," and walked away, full
of thoughts on his future plans. When evening
came on, observing the same uniform conduct of
his predecessor, he went to bed, but could not sleep
for thinking. No sooner did the dawn appear than
he rose and went to the church of St. Catherine,
where a devout and worthy pastor dwelt, and who
was considered by all the Pisanians as a little saint:
friar Angelico appearing, Gabriel told him he want.
ed to speak to him on particular business, and to
have his advice upon a very important and singular
case that had happened to him. The kind fria rai.
though he did not know him, led him into his room.
Gabriel, who well knew the whole genealogy of
Lazarus, son of Basilio of Milan, related it fully
to the friar, likewise the dreadful accident,. ad ding,
that he considered himself as a principal cause of it,
making him believe it Was he who md aced the un-
fortunate man to go a fishing against his will; he
represented the mischief which resulted from it to
the widow and children of the deceased, and that he
considered himself so much the cause of it, and felt
such a weight on his conscience, that~he had made
up his mind, though Santa was of low condition, and
243

C

poor, to take her for his wife, if she and her friends
approved of it, and to take the children of the poor
fisherman under his care as his own; bring them up
with his own children, should he have any, and leave
tuem co-heirs with them; this, he said, would recon-
cile him to himself and his Maker, and be approv-
ed by men. The holy man, seeing the worthy nio'.
tives which acta~ted him, approved of his intention,
and recommended as little delay as possible, since
he would thereby meet with forgiveness. Gabriel, in
order the more effectually to secure his ready co-
operation, threw down thirty pieces of money, say-
ing, that in the three succeeding Mondays he wished
high mass to be sung for the soul of the deceased~
At this tempting sight, the friar, although a very
saint, leaped with joy, took the cash, and said, "my
son, the masses shall be sung next Monday; there is
nothing more to attend to now but the marriage, a
ceremony which I advise thee to hasten as much as
thou ~canst; do not think of riches or noble birth;
thou art, thank heaven, rich enough; and as to birth,
we are all children of one father; true nobility con-
sists in virtue and the fear of God, nor is the good
woman deficient in either; I know her well, and
most of her relations." "Good father," said Gabriel,
"I am come to you for the very purpose, therefore,
I pray you, put me. quickly in the way to forward
the business." "When will you give her the ring?"
said the holy man. "This very day," he answered,
"if she be inclined." "XYell," said the friar, "go
thy ways, and leave all to me; go home, and stir not
from thence-these blessed nuptials shall take place."
Gabriel thanked him, received his blessing, and
went home. The holy father carefully put the cash
in his desk, then went to an uncle of Dame Santa, a
shoemaker by trade, and a cousin of hers, a barber,
and related to them what had happened; after which
they went together to Dame Santa, and used every
possil)le argument to persuade her to consent to the
match, the which she feigned great difficulty in cou*
~49

A   ~
p
4

jI~

up1 l

ill


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

ii
~ I ~
~1
it~ I
I'
~j it ~
1~ ;:~
[
I
~'ll~ K

THE DEATH OF CLEOPATRA.
AFTER giving an account of the lives of Antony
and Cleopatia, their amours, the victory of Augus-
tus over Antony and the Egyptians, the burial of
Antony by Vleopatra, and her mourning for him, the
narrative thus concludes
Then, as if her mourning was over, she ordered
her women to prepare her bath; after the enjoyment
of which, she arrayed herself in the richest manner,
and partook ofthe~rnost splendid and magnificent ban-
quets. She then ordered a basket of figs, which had
been presented her by a countryman who was in her
interest, to be brought her, under the leaves of which
lay concealed an asp, the bite of which was mortal,
but gave no pain, nor produced convulsion or distor
tion of the frame: a gentle moisture only bedewed
the countenance, the senses became obliterated, and
an excessive heaviness oppressed the whole body,
resembling that felt by persons who are under the
influence of profound sleep. This treasure, which
Cleopatra valued more than all her richest had been
greedily and thankfully received, and concealed
250

THE WRONG LEG.

seating to, saying that it was merely for the advan-
tare of her children that she submitted to ~ueh a
thing. I will only add, that the very same moriiing,
by the exertions of the friar, they were married a
second time; great rejoicing took place, and Gabriel
and his wife laughed heartily at the simplicity of the
good friar, and the credulity of the relations and
neighbours. They happily lived in peace and plen-
ty, provided for and dismissed the old servants; were
blessed with two more children, whom he named
Fortunatus, and from whom afterward sprung some
of the most renowned men, both in arms and let..
ters.

THE WRONG LEG.
Dr. 7rhomas, (Bishop of Salisbury) forgot the day
he was to be married, and was surprised at his ser~
vants bringing him a new dress. A gnat stinging
him in the leg, the doctor stooped and scratched the
g of a gentleman who stood next to him.
251

from the piercing eyes of the guards with such sin-
gular sw~crecy, that no doubt remained on the minds
of her attendants, whom she now ordered to leave
her apartment. Her favourite women, Charmion
and Iras, who were too faithfully attached to their
royal mistress to survive her, were now embraced,
with great affection, in a last farewell. Cleopatra
then, wun Roman fortitude, but divested of those
fears of futurity which she would have experienced
had she lived in this happy Christian land, placed
the asp on her bosom: its anodyne, influence was
soon experienced. The subtle poison entered her
veins; and Cleopatra, the beautiful Ethiopian queen,
expired; and the world closed on a princess whose
talents and genius, had she enjoyed the privileges of
a Christian education, would not have acknowledged
a superior. Augustus sent messengers to fnquire
into the health of Cleopatra, as had been usual with
him. On entering the apartment of the Pagan prin-
cess, they found her extended on her ottoman of gold,
arrayed in all her royal ornaments. The asp was
still at her bosom, but she appeared as under the in-
fluence of a deep and placid sleep. Iras was alrea-
dy dead; at the feet of Cleopatra was Charmion,
just expi~iing, in the act of adjusting the imperial
diadem of her royal mistress. A letter was in the
hand of the queen, addressed to Augustus, in which
she requested, as a last act of clemency, to be inter-
red in the same tomb with Antony.

~1

iF
''I

C


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

MAGICAL SERVANTS OR, THE POLYPUS GHOST.

Ilii; ~4j
p.~ All
fi A
Al I
41$
A I
) I
A        A
~AA4
'~tA fAA  A

TH~ OAT

AND

THE CANARY BIRD.

EUCRATES says that he became acquainted in
Egypt with Pancrates, who had resided twenty years
in the subterraneous recesses, where he had learned
magic from Isis herself. "At length," be states, "lie
persuaded me to leave all my servants at M~mpbis;
and to follow him alone, telling me that we shouh~
riot be at a loss for attendants. When we came into
an inn, he took a wooden pin, latch, or bolt, and
wrapping it in some clothes, when he had repeated
a verse over it, he made it walk, and appear a ina~n
to every one. This creature went about, prepared
supper, laid the cloth, and waited upon us very dex-.
terously. Then, when we bad no further occasion
for it, by repeating another ve~se, he' turned it into
a pin, latch, or bolt, again. He refused to impart
the secret of this incantation to me, though very
obliging in every thing else. But having hid myself
one day in a dark corner, I caught the first verse,
which consisted of three syllables. After he had
given his orders to the pin, he went into the market
place. Next day, in his absence, I took the pin,
A    dressed it up, and repeating those syllables, ordered
it to fetch some water. When it h~d brought a full
jar, I cried, "Stop, draw no more water, but be a
pin again." It was in vain, however, that he reite
rated the command of as you were; the perverse
I)in continued his employment till he had nearly fill
ed the house. "I, not able to endure this obstinacy
(continues Eucrates,) and fearing the return of my
companion, lest he should be displeased, seized a
hatchet, and split the pin in two pieces. But each
part, taking up a jar, ran to draw more water, so
that I had now two servants in place of one. In
the mean time Pancrates returned, and, understand-
ing the matter, changed them into wood again, as
~they were before the incantation."
252

[N the town of qleves, I was residing with a Pru-.
sian family, during the time of the fair; which I
shall pass over, having nothing remarkable to dis-
tinguish it from other annual meetings, where peo-
pie assemble to stare at, cheat each other, and di-
vert themselves, and to spend the year's savings in
buying those bargains which would have been pro-.
bably better bought at home. One day after din..
ner, as the dessert was just brought on the table, the
travelling German musicians, who commonly ply
the houses at these times, presented themselves, and
were suffered to play; and just as they were rnak~
ing their bows for the money they received for their
harmony, a bird-catcher, who had rendered himself
famous for educating and calling forth the talents of
the feathered race, made his appearance, and was
well received by our party, which was numerous
and benevolent. The musicians, who had heard of
this bird-catcher's fame, begged permission to stay
and the master of the house, who had a great share
of good-nature, indulged their curiosity: a Curiosity
indeed, in which every body participated; for all
that we have heard or seen of learned pigs, asses,
dogs, and horses, was said to be extinguished in the
wonderful wisdom which blazed in the genius of thi~'
bird-catcher',s canary. The canary was produced,
and the owner harangued him in the following man
X                  253

f A
I  ~A       A
I
It
I
it'

t~ A] ~
K
At
A~I'   A

N

I,

ll~

1


I

7

MARVELLOUs REPOSITORY.

III II~
U
~I. 4
h
K
Ii; ~i
~
*1

ner,. p lacing him upon his fore-finger. ." Bijou,
(jewel,). you are now in the presence of persons of
great sagacity and honour; take heed you do not
deceive the expectations they have conceived of you
from the world's report: you have got laurels; be-
ware their withering. In. a word, deport yourself
like the bijou (the jewel) of canary birds; as you
certainly are."
All this time the bird seemed to listen, and, indeed,
placed himself in the true attitude of attention, by
sloping his head to the ear of the man, and then dis.-
tinctly nodding twice when his master left off speak-
ing; and if ever nods were intelligible and promis-.
sory, these were two of them.
" That's good," says the master, pulling off his
hat to the bird. " Now let us see if you are a cana-
ry of honour. 9ive us a tune." The. canary sung.
"Pshaw ! -that's too harsh: it is the note of a raven
with a hoarseness upon him: something pathetic."
The canary whistled as if its little throat w as chang
ed to a lute. " Faster," says the man-" slower-
very well-but what a plague is this foot about, and
this little head ? No wonder you are out, Mr. Bijou,
when you forget your time. That's a jewel! Bravo,
bravo, my little man !"
All that he was ordered or reminded of, did he
do to admiration. His head and foot beat time-
humoured the variations, both of tone and move-
ment; and " the sound was a just echo to the sense,"
according to the strictest laws of poetical and, (as it
ought to be) of musical composition-Bravo! bravo!
re--echoed from all parts of the 6ining-room.-The
musicians swore the canary was a greater master of
music than any of their band. " And do you not
show your sense of this civility, Sir?" cries the bird-
catcher, with an angry air. The canary bowed
most respectfully, to the great delight of the compa-.
ny. His next achievement was going through mar.-
tial exercise with a straw gun; after which, " My
poor bijou," says his owner, " thou hast had. hard

'THE CAN(ARY BIRD.
work, and must be a little weary a few perform-
ances more, and thou shalt repose. Show the ladies
how to make a curtesy."
The bird here crossed his taper legs, and sunk
and rose with an ease arnd grace that would have
put half our subscription assembly belles to the
blush. " That's my fine bird-and now a bow, head
and foot corresponding." Here the striphings, for
ten miles round London, might have blushed also.
" Let us finish with a hornipipe, my brave little fel-
low !-That's it-keep it up, keep it up!"
The activity, 'glee, spirit, and accuracy, with
which this last order was obeyed, wound up the ap-
plause, (in which all the musicians joined, as well
with their instruments as their clappings,) to the
highest pitch of admiration. Bijou, himself, seemed
to feel the sacred thirst of fame,; and shook his little
plumes, and carolled an Io pwan that sounded like
the conscious notes of victory.
," Thou hast done all my biddings bravely," said
the master, caressing his feathered servant; "now,
then, take a nap, while I take thy place." Here-
upon the canary went into a counterfeit slumber, so
like the effect of the poppied god, first shutting one
eye, then the other, then nodding,; then dropping so
much on one side, that the hands of several of there
~--jcompany were stretched out to save him from falling,
and, just as those hands approached his feathers,
suddenly recovering and dropping as much on the
other. At length the sleep fixed him in a steady
posture; whereupon the man took him from his fin-
ger, and laid him flat upon the table, where, the man
-assured us he would remain in a good soundly sleep,
while he himself had the lionour to fill up the inter-
val. Accordingly, after drinking a glass of wine,
in the progress of taking off which, he was inter-
rupted by the cafiary bird springing suddenly up to
-assert his right to a share; really putting his little
bill into'the glass, and then laying himself down to
ileep again, the owner called him a saucy fellow, and

~ ~
f qj
I

A

~L24 I

"I

iCt~ I

~I~I
ii

wt
1;

II


I

C

MARVELLOt!S' JtI~P0SJT0RY.

~~1
"' '~
~ I
"'V
'4
III

began to show off his own in(lcpcndent powers of en.
tertaining. The forte of these lay chiefly in balancing
w~ith a tobacco pipe, while he smoked with another;
and several of the positions were so difficult to be
preserve(l, yet maintained with such dext~rity, that
the general attention was fixed upon him. But
while he was thus exhibiting, a huge black cat, i~ih~
had been no doubt on the watch, from some unob
served corner, sprung upon the table, seized the
poor canary in its mouth, and rushed out of the
window in despite of opposition. Though the din-
ing-roozn was emptied in an instant, it was a vain
pursuit; the life of the bird was gone, and its man~~
gled body was brought in by the unfortunate owner,
in sm~ch dismay, accompanie(l by such looks and Ian..
guage, as must have awaked pity in a misanthrope
He spread him half-leng.th over the table, and
mourned his canary bird with most undissembled
sorrow. " W~ell may I grieve for thee, poor little
thing! well may I grieve. 'More than four years
hast thou fed from my hand, drank from my lip, and
slept in my bosom. I owe to t-l~e my support, my
health, my strength,~aiid my happiness; without
thee, what will become of me? Thou it was who in-
sured my welcome in the best company: it was thy
genius only rnade~ me ii~elcame. But thy death is a
just punishment for my vanity. Had I relied only on
thy happy powers, all had been well, and thou hadst
been perched on my finger, or lulled in my breast at
this moment; but, trusting to my own talents, a m~ d
glorifying myself in them, a judgement has fall~
en upon me, and thou art~dead and matigled on this
table. Accursed be the hour I entered this house
and more accursed the, detestable monster that kill.
ed thee! Accursed be myself; for I contributed. .11
ought not to have taken away mine eyes when thir~e
were closed in frblic. 0, bijou, my dearest' only
bijou, would I were dead also'!"
As near as the spirit of his disorderedd mind can
be transfused, such was the language and sentiment
256

TTI~ CANARY BIRD.
of the forlorn bird-catcher, whose despairing motion
an(l frantic air no words can paint. He took from
his pocket a little green bag of faded velvet, and,
drawing from out it some wo4l and cotton, that we're
the wrappings of whistles, bird-calls, and other in-
struments of his trade, all of which he threw on the
table, as in scorn, and making a couch, placed the
mutilated limbs, and ravaged feathers of ch~5 canary
upon it, and renewed his lamentations.
The bird-catcher's lamentations were now much
softened, as is ever the case, when the rage of grief
yields to its tenderness, when it is too much over
power by the effect to advert to the cause. It is
needless to observe, that everyone of the company
sympathized with him, but none more than the band
of musicians, who, being engaged in a profession
that naturally keeps the sensibilities more or less in
exercise, felt the ~distress of the poor bird-man with
peculiar force. it was really a banquet to see these
I)eople gathering themselves into a knot, and, after
whispering, wiping their eyes, and blowing their
noses, depute ~ne from amongst them to be the medi-'
urn of conveying into the pocket of' the bird-maw
the very contribution they had~ just before received~
for their own efforts. The poor fe11~w, perceiving
them, took from the pocket the little parcel they
had rolled up, andbrought out with it, by an un~
lucky accident, another little bag, at the sight of
which he was extremely agitated;' for it contained
the canary seed, the food of the ' (lear lost compan-
ion of his art." There is no giving language to the
effect of this trifling circumstance upon the poor fel-
low; he threw down the contribution money, that
he brought from his pocket along with it, not with
an ungrateful, but with a desperate hand. He
opened the bag, which was fastened with red tape,
and, taking out some of the seed, put it to the very
bill of the lifeless bird, exclaiming-' No, poor bijoul
no, thou canst not 1)eck any more out of this hand,
~that has been thy feeding place so many years: thou
X 2       AU        257

II

I I
~1
I'
U
'I

g

"I'

&amp;
t


x

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

I-
41
I   'I
II
14
I
~f~4
~ I

I

TUB CAYARY BIRD.

eanst remember how happy we both were, when I
bought this bag full for thee. Had it been filled
with gold, tl)ou hadst (leserved it."-." It shall be
filled,-..-and with gold," said the master~f the house,
if I COUI(l aflord it."
The good inan rose from his seat, which had long
been uneasy to him, and, gently taking the bag, put
into it some silver; saying, as he handed it to his
nearest neighbour, " who will refuse to follow my
example? It is not a subscription for mere charity;
it is a tribute to one of the rarest things in the whole
world; namely, to real feeling, in this sophistical,
pretending, parading age. If ever the passion of
love and gratitude was in the heart of man, it is in
the heart of that happy fellow; and whether the
object that calls out such feelings, be bird, beast,
fish, or man, it is alike.-Virtue and ""ought
to be rewarded," said his next neighbour, putting in-
to the bag his quota.
it is superfluous to say, that, after th~ seed had
been taken wholly away, and put very delicately out
of the poor man's sight, every body most cheerfully
contributed to make up a purse, to repair, as much
as money could, the bird-man's loss. The last per-
son applied to, was a very beautiful German young
lady, wh , a she placed her bounty in the hag,
closed it mined tely after, and blushed. As there
are all sorts of blushes, (at least one to every action
of our lives, tha{ is worth any characteristic feeling,
supposing the actor can feel at all,) suspicion would
have thought this young lady, who was so anxious
to conceal her gift, gave little or nothing; but caii-
dour, who'reasons in a different manner, would sup.
pose, what was really the case, that it was a blush,
not of avarice and Jeceptioa, but of benevolence
graced with modesty. Curiosity, however, caught
the bag, opened it, and turned out its contents,
amongst which was a golden ducat, that, by its (late
and brightness, had been hoarded. "Ah, ha," said
curiosity, "who does this belong to, I wonder?"
258

Guilt and innocence, avarice an(J benignity, arc
alike honest in one point; since they all, in the mo-
ment of attack, by some means or another, discover
what they wish to conceal. There was not, in the
fhen large company, a single person who cpul(l not
have exclaimed to this young lady, with assurance
of the truth-T/sou art the woman! There was no
deP~y4ng the fact; it was written on every feature of
her enchanting face. She struggled, however, with
the accusation almost to tears, but they were such
tears as would have given lustre to the finest eyes in
the world; for they gave lustre to hers, and would
have ~idded effulgence to a ray of the sun.
"Well,1then, if nobody else will own this neglect-
ed ducat," cried the master of the house, who was
uncle to the lady abovementioned, " I will."
'Whereupon he took it from the heap, and exchanged
it for two others, which enriched the collection.
~While the business of the heart was thus carry-
ing on, the poor bird-man, who was the occasion
an(I object of it, was, at first, divided by contrary
emotions of pain and pleasure; his eye sometimes
directed to the massacred canary, and sometimes to
the company. At~ length, generosity proved the
stronger emotion, and grief ebbed away. He had'
lost a bird, but he had gained the good-will of many
human beings. That bird, it is true, was his pride
and supl)ort, but this was not the crisis any longer
to bewail its fate. He accepted the contribution
purse, by one means or another, filled like the sack
of Benjamin, even to the brim, and bowed, but spoke
not; then, folding up the corpse of the canary in its
wool and cotton shroud, departed with one of those
looks, that, the moment it is seen, is felt and under-
stood, but for which, being too powerful for descrip-
tion, no language has yet been provided. On going
out he beckoned the musicians to IbIlow. They did
so, striking a few chords, that would have graced
the funeral of Juliet. My very soul pursued the
sounds, anli so did my feet. I hastened to the outet

F '~
I
I;
i

C

if
'4


t

1~

MARVELLOUS RJ~POSITORY

door, and saw the bird-man contending about re~
turning the money, which the founder of the bene.
violence (for such were the musicians) had sub-
scr'ibed.
I have nothing to add to this gleaning, but a piece
of information that belongs to it. The very next
morning 1 was witness to two traits of the heart, of
the master of the mansion, where these transactions
had passed. A nobler minded man lived not: alas!
he is no more. On my coming down to breakfast,
the day after, I saw the footman departing with the
cat who killed the bird; "Not," said the gentle..
man, "to put her to death, for an act that was natural
to her, but to put her where I know she will be out
of my sight; for I never could look at her again,
without being reminded of the most uncomfortable
l)art of yesterday's adventure. Poor bijou! I have
not a doubt but~all we have done atones but scantily
for the loss of such a friend." Just as he said this,
the niece, whose person and mind I have already
particularized, came into the breakfast room: "And
now," said the old gentleman, "to finish this busi
ness; look ye, Henrietta, I gave you this new ducat
to lay out ~t the fair, in any manner von liked best;
and though I think the way in whi&amp;h you disposed
of it, the very best you could have chosen, (nay, no
more blushing,) I think it never ought to go out of
our family; for do you know that I have taken it in~
to my old superstitious head, that t~ie blessiiw of the
Giver of all good will stay with us, while such a
ducat remains amongst us; I therefore bought it
back cheaply with two others. Age is superstitou~,
iou know, my dear. Indulge me then, love, and
take care of it while I live, after which it shall be
yours; and, in the mean time, that you may not lose
your fairing, in this little purse are ten others, that,
though not so distinguished by whatto my old heart,
is more precious than the gold of Ophir, may serve
well enough the common purposes of life."
Much of this was spoken with tender difficulty
~tio

VOLUNTARY CRUCIFIXIONS.

and the gift was received with more: but she loved
the hand which, in the first instance, had enabled
her to be generous, too well not to reward it. Was
not this, indeed, an illustration of the virtue of the
Man of Ross, who
"Did good, yet blusls'd to find it fame !"
To apologize to you for this story, as I have said
on former occasions, would be to insult you and ~ny~
self. I rather expect your thanks.-Adieu.

VOLUNTARY CRUCIFIXIONS.

Tiiz first scene was that of the crucifixion of the
So~ur Rachel, and the Sa~iir Felicite, two women,
from thirty to forty years of age, who were inwardly
moved, as they pretended, to exhibit this lively
image of the passion of our Saviour, in a mean lodg-
ing at Paris, in August, 1759. These two wretched
creatures, were actually nailed to two wooden cross~
es, through their hands and their feet, and continu-
ed fastened to them for upwards of three hours; dur-
ing which they sometimes pretended to slumber in a
beatific trance, and, at other times, uttered a quan-
tity of infantile nonsense and gibberish, asking for
sweetmeats, and threatening~and fondling the spec-
tators, in lisping accents, and all the babyish diminu-
Lives of the nursery. The nails were at length
drawn out, and a considerable quantity of blood
flowed from all the wounds; after w~hing and
bandaging which, the patients sat down quietly to a
little repast in the midst of the apartment. Al-
though their votaries ~nd ghostly advisers main-
tained that they experienced no pain, but, on the
contrary, the most exquisite delight, from thQse ope-
rations, the respectable reporters concur in testify-
~26l

V

4
~ V1
;ij1~i~ I

(

i


~f$j7
[ii
4,
12
~
P
IS
1~I

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
ing, that it was easy to see throughout, that they
were frequently in the utmost agony; and that, in
driving in and drawing out the nails, in particular,
~they could not refrain from all the contortions and
writhing of the most dreadful sufferirig;-~-though
they had the incredible fortitude and self-command
to suppress any audible- indications of their misery,
and not to utter the least murmur or groan in the
midst of their torments. After this tragedy, there
was a kind of afterpiece, by the inferior perform-
ers and pupils of this school of imposture.-Va-
rious women were stretched on the floor, and
beat with bludgeons on the head and breast, and
trodden violently under the feet of their spiritual as-
sistants, to their infinite relief 'and gratification, as
the managers of the spectacle most solemnly assert-
ed-but with more or less apparent dread and suf-
fering, according to M. Grimm's informers, as they
had made a less ora greater progress in this strange
and barbarous imposture. They had also the points
of swords pressed forcibly agai1pst their sides and ho-
soms;-and were not only miraculously protected
from wounds, but received the greatest consolation
from the most serious and continued thrusting.
This, it seems, illustrated in a wonderful manner,
the invulnerability of the church, under all the per-
secutions of unholy power!-and their insensibility
to blows and kicking, typified, in the same pitiful
jargon, the insensibility of the worldly-minded, to all
the solicitations and impulses of divine grace.
The second exhibition, the particulars of which
Ni. de Condamine wrote down while it was going on,
consisted in the crucifixion of the Socur Francoise
and the Sceur Marie, and a great deal of beating and
thrusting with swords, on the bodies of some of their
unfortunate apprentices. M. de Condamine hand-
led and examined the nails"as they were driven in
and taken out. They were rough and square, up-
wards of three inches in length, and entered the
wood of the cross- nearly half an inch; but little
262

.1
1.

VOLUNTARY CRUCIFIXIONS.
blood flowed on driving them in, but a good deal on
their extraction. Franchise remained upwards of
three hours on the cross; which was shifted into a
great variety of posturesduring this period. But
the So2ur Marie wanted faith or fortitude to edify
the beholders to the same extent-she shuddered at
the fastening of the nails, and in less than an hour
fairly cried out that she could stand it no longer.
and must be taken down :-she was unfastened ac-
cordingly, and carried out of the chamber in a state
of insensibility, t q'~ the no small discomfiture of her
associates. The kp ectacle was concluded with a
still more unlucky~rformance. The Sceur Fran-
cois had announced that God had commanded her,
on that day, to burn the gown off her back, and had
assured her much comfort from the operation. After
a great deal of grimacing accordingly, fire was ac-
tually set to her skirts-but, instead of appearing to
experience any delight, the failing saint very speedi..
ly screamed out in terror; and they were obliged
to pour water upon her petticoats, and carry her off
half roasted-half drowned-and utterly ashamed of
her exhibition. 'rhose horrible and degrading
practices had been going on in the heart of Paris for
upwards of twenty years. A few profligate priests
were supposed to be at the bottom of the contri-
vance: but all the agents, or victims rather, were
women; and such appears to have been their heroic
constancy, and willing devotedness, that it is diffi-
cult not to suppose that there was a mixture, at
least, of real enthusiasm with their knavery, and a
combination, not quite unintelligible, of an actual
illusion, with a design to impose upon others. Short-
ly after this visit of M. de Condamine, the exhibi-
tion was' put down by the police.
263

.1
54j.
4J
P
A

G


MARVELLOUs REPOSITORY.

~1I
~it i
'4
~  :4
II
II;.
iI~'  ~
V

I
.1

DE SCRIPTION OF HE LL.

4

IN Charles the Second's days it was the custom,
when a gentleman drank a lady's health, as a toast,
by way of doing her honour, to throw some part of
his dress into the fire, an example which his com-
panions were bound to ,follow, by consuming the
same article of their apparel, whatever it might be.
One of his friends perceiving, at a tavern dinner,
that Sir Charles Se dl ey had on a very rich lace cra
vat, when he named his toast committed his crava.
to the flames, and Sir Charles and the rest were
obliged to (10 the same. The poet bore his loss with
great composure, observing it was a good joke, but
that he would have as good a one some other time.
He therefore watched his opportunity, when the
same p arty was assembled on a subsequent occasion,
and drinking off a bumper to the health of Nell
Gwynne, he called the waiter, and ordering a tooth
drawer into the room, whom he had previously
brought" to the tavern for the purpose, made him
draw a decayed tooth, which had long plagued him.
Trhe rules of' good fellowship, then in force, clearly
required that every one of the company should have
a tooth drawn also, but they naturally expressed a
hope that Sedley would not be so unmerciful as to
enforce the law. Deaf, hoivever, to all their re-
monstrances, persuasions, and- entreaties, he saw
them, one after another, in the hands of the operator,
and writhing with pain, while lie exclaimed, " pa--
tience, gentlemen, patience; youi know you promis-
ed that I should have my frolic too."
264                       A

4'

I.

I

-'4

I

7

RETALIATION..

THE

The following extract is from a tract written by
F. Pinamonti, a Jesuit, entitled felll opened to
Christians, or Considerations on the Inftrnal pains
for every day in the week.
GOD has framed a prison- in the lowest region of
the universe, a very suitable place, as the furtherest
4f all from heaven. Here, though the place itself is
wide enou-gh, the damned will not even have that
-relief, which either a poor prisoner has in walking
between four walls, or the sick man in turning him-
self in bed, because here they shall be bound up like
a faggot, and heaped one upon another like unfor-
tunate victims; and this by reason of the great num-
ber of the damned, to whom this great pit will be-
come narrow andl strait; as also because the fire it-
self will be to them, like chains and fetters. Those
miserable wret'ches will not only be straitened, but
also be immovable; and so weak, as not to be able
even to remove from the eye, a worm that is gnaw-
ing it. T he walls of this prison are more than four
thousand miles thick, that is, as far as from hence to
hell; but were they as thin as paper, the prisoners
will be too weak to break through them to make
their escape.
This prison will not only be extremely strait, but
also extremely dark. It is true there will be fire,
but deprived of light. This fire, burning with brim-~
stone, will have a searching flame, which being min-
.gled with the rolling smoke of that infernal cave,
will fill the whole place, and raise a storm of dark-
Y               265

I,


*


r

MARVELLOUS REPOSiTORY.

I ~'fP
I t~ I
K
4 ~
I

without number, but intense without comparison,
and pure without mixture. How little do the law..
givers among us find out what pain is. The divine
justice has discovered a place full of executioners
and condemned persons, filled with hatred and re-
proaches, in the middle of a sea of fire, which has
~ieit her shore nor bottom. ~i'he pains there will lend
each other a fresh sting, and the damned will be like
so many vessels as full as they can be of the anger
of God. There will be nothing wanting of all that
can render a soul most unhappy; that the misery of
the wicked may be on all sides complete. The fire,
alone, would have 'been sufficient to render 'them
most unfortunate; for in that alone the damned would
have had incomparably more grief, than from all the
butcheries which men or the devils could have in..
vented, that being the invention of God himself: and
yet, their wickedness deserves still more. The damn-
ed soul will behold above her, heaven shut; under
her, nothing but unquenchable flames; roupd her,
devils not to be bore with; and within herself such
pains as can have no relief! The sensitive appetite
will, like the ebbing and flowing of the sea, be con-
tinually swelling and flowing, or rather always sink-
ing into agonies, into rage and anguish, exposed to
all the blows of divine justice, without ever being
able to avoid any one of them. "A short disease,"
says Seneca, "must either kill, or be killed;" but in
Hell the rules are quite the contrary, for the pains
will always continue in the same state; intolera-
ble as to intenseness, and endless a~ to duration;
neither making the pains lighter by time, or consum-
ing the sufferers. As there is nothing moderate in
the torments, so there is no rest in the tormented,
who are continually kept, not barely alive, but in
their full senses, to have greater feeling of their
misery, from which they cannot so much as for one.
moment depart God for that end having gathered
together all manner of pains as it were in one bun-
dle, to load them on the shoulders of those !lnfortu
268

4
4&amp;4
14,
4'
5"

DESCRIPTION OF ELL.
nate rebels, he will empty the a ~senal of his justice,
of all his debts, to strike them o r~ all sides, that there
may be no l)lace in them without its wound.~ If the
pains of one only of those unfortunate souls were di-
vided among all mankind here on earth, what would
come to every one's share, would kill them with more
torment than any criminal has ever sufThred. Were
the pains of Hell less racking, yet, being never to
have an end, they would become infinite. What
then will it be, they being both intolerable as to
sharpness, and endless as to duration: a torment,
which is to last inPnite hours, infinite days,.infinite
ages! That pain certainly must be infinite, and sur-
pass all our thoughts to conceive it: for were it pro-
posed to the damned, to suffer either the sting of a
bee in their eye for a whole eternity, or to undergo
all the torments of Hell for as many ages as there are
stars in Heaven, they would, without doubt, choose
rather to be thus miserable for so many ages, and
then to see an end of their misery, than to endure a
pain so much less, that was to have no end. These
unfortunate creatures will not only be tormented fot
eternity, I)ut will have eternity itself to torment
them, because it being always in their sight, it will
every' moment oppress them with all its weight. a~
an immense sphere of brass would op~ire~ s, with
all its weight, the plain it lies on, though it actual~
touched it but in one point. Besides, a~ the fear of
a punishment to come, afflicts sometimes more
the punishment itself: eternity not only every mo-
ment torments the damned, but to the damned every
moment is turned into many eternities.
To complete the despair of the damned, they will
consider the' glory of the saints in Heaven. This
sight, by a cruel opposition will quicken the torments
of these poor wretches: they will know that God and
his saints rejoice at their pains, on account of the
glory which redounds to the divine justice in the
condemnation of sinners. 0 what a wound must
this make in the heart of those miserable creatures
Y2                 269

r1

I ~
It

&amp;


I

K

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

~I
hI
;~
~ji d
,1
~ t

ST. CATHARINF.

ST. CATHARINE OF SIENA.

V

To be obliged to suffer so many torments for ever,
and in the presence of their Judge, and of their
greatest enemies, the saints; to be forced to suffer
this to the increase of their felicity, as a victim of a
perpetual sacrifice, consumed, without being destroy-
ed, in the honor of the Most High. And yet so as
it is: if~I, unfortunately, should be damned, and thou,
0 Reader, should be saved, thou wilt for ever re-
joice at my torments, and I always repine at thy
joy: and on the contrary, if I should be saved, and
thou~ lost, I shall laugh at thy destruction, not as it is
an evil to thee, but because it is a good to God, re-
ye nging the outrages committed against him. The
infernal fire will have its rise from the foot of the
throne of God. It will receive an incredible vigor
from the omnipotence of God; working, not with its
own activity, but, as an instrument, with the activi-
ty of its agent; who will give to the flames such in-
tenseness as he shall think convenient to revenge
the outrages committed against him, and repair the
injuries done his glory. Every one that is damned,
will be like a lighted furnace, which has its own
flames in itself; all that filthy blood will boil in the
veins, the brains in the skull, the heart in the breast,
tbe bowels within that unfortunate body, surrounded
with an abyss of fire, out of which it cannot escape.
It is what the divine Majesty, injured by sinners~
requires; it is what the blood of Christ demands.
270

Sv. CATHARINE, who often saw the devil, also saw,
~t six years old, upon the top of a church, a rich
throne, with Christ sitting on it, in the pontifical
habit of the pope, with a triple crown on his head,
accompanied by St. Peter, St. Paul, and John the
Evangelist. She knew the lives of the holy fathers
an~l hermits by revelation, practiced abstinence, and
shut herself up with other children in a room, where
they whi1)ped themselves. At seven years 01(1 she
dedicated her virginity to God by a vow, and offered
herself to the Virgin as a spouse for her Son. When
marriageable, she refused the importunity of her
parents to wed; and having cut off her hair to keep
her vow, they made her a kitchenmaid: but her
father, one day as he was praying in a corner, see-
ng the Holy ~ifliost sitting upon her head in the
shape of a dove, she was released from drudgery, and
was favoured with a revelation from St. Dominick.
She eat no meat, drank only water, and at last left
off bread, sustaining herself by herbs alone, and her
grace before meals was, let us go take the punish-
v~tent dz'~e to this miserable sinner. She so mastered
sleep, that she scarcely took any rest, and her bed
was only boards. She wore around her body next
to the skin a chain of iron, which ate into her flesh.
Three times a day, and for an hour and a half each
time, she flogged herself with another iron chain, till
great streams of blood ran down, and when she took
the black and white habit of the order of St. Dordi-
nick she increased her mortification. For three
year~ she never spoke, except at confession; never
stirred out of her cell but to go to the church; and
sat up all night watching-taking rest in the quire
at nations only, and then laying upon tne floor with
a piece of wood under her head for a bolster. She
was tempted by devils in a strange manner describe
271

'4

I'

~'11KI
~ 4


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

r'~r
~
II
i~
~ 4
Ii  I
i; I ~l
I  I~

ST. CATHIARINE.

ed by Ribadeneira; but to drive them away, she
disciplined her body with the iron chain so much the
more. When the fiend perceived he could make no
impression on her virginal heart, he changed his
battery. She had undertaken to cure an old woman
who had a cancer in her breast so loathsome, that no
one would go near her, but by'the devil's instigation,
the old woman gave out that Catharine was not as
good as she should be, and stuck to her point. Catha..
rine, knowing the devil's tricks, would not desist;
and, to do her honor, Christ appeared, and offered
to her the choice of two crowns-one of pure gold,
the other of thorns; she took the crown of thorns,
pressed it so close upon her bead, that it gave her
great pain; and Christ commanded her to continue
her attendance upon he woman who, in consc~
quence of a vision, confessed her calumny, to the
great confusion of the devil. Once, as she was
dressing the old woman's breast, the operation turn..
ed her stomach: this was a temptation of the devil
to divert her from her good work; but she defeated
him, and the manner shall be stated in Ribadeneira's
words: "she applied her mouth and nose to the wo-
man's rotten and cankered sore, and so continued
till she found the flesh had submitted to the spirit."
Ribadeneria, then says, that at "another time she
did a thing worthy of greater admiration; for, as she
had opened the same sore, the stench of it quite over-
came her stomach; and yet she washed it, and made
it clean;, and gathering the putrified matter into a
dish, with great fervor of faith, she drank it up; and
presently upon this the temptation ceased; ~nd she
told Father Raymundus, her ghostly father, that in
all the days of her life she had never drunken any
thing so sweet and savoryy" Though it appears
from this story, that Catharine was sufficiently re-
warded by the savoriness of th~ meal, yet, Ribade..
neira says, that, the night following, Christ appear-
ed, opened to her ~he wound in his side, ~nd made
her drink till she was so ravisbed, that her soul wa~

deprived of its functions. Her love and affection tG
Christ was so intense, that she was almost always
languishing and sick; at last it took away her life,
and she was dead for four hours, in which time she
saw strange things concerning heaven, hell, and
purgatory. On a certain day be appeared to her,
with his mother and other saints, and espoused her
in a marvellous and singular manner; visited he~
almost continually with the g e est familiarity~ and
affection, sometimes in their c m , though ord~-
narily he came alone, and ente t med her by reciting
and singing psalms with her. nce as she was com-
ing home from church, he appeared to her in the
disguise of a pilgrim, and begged a coat of her; she
returned to the church, and secretly taking off her
petticoat, brought it to him, not knowing wno he
was. He asked her for a shirt; she bade him follow
her home, and she gave him her shift. Not content
with this, he requested more clothes of her, as well
for himself as a companion; hut a~ she had, nothing
else left, and was much afflicted, in the night, Christ
appeared to her as a pilgrim, and showing her what
she had bestowed upon him in the garb he had as-
sumed, promised to give her an invisible garjnent,
which should keep her from all cold both ol body
and soul. One time she prayed to him to take from
her her heart of flesh, and it seemed to her that Christ
came, and opening her side, took out her heart, and
carried it away with him. This appeared almost
incredible to her confessor when ~he told him she
had no heart; yet," says Ribadeneira, "that which
happened afterwards was a certain argument of the
truth; for, in a few days, Christ appeared to her in
great brightness, holding in his hand a ruddy heart,
most beautiful to 1)ehold, and coming to her, put it
into her left side, and said, My daughter Catharine,
now thou hast my heart instead of thy own; and hay-
in g sai(1 this, he closed up her side again, in proox
whereof a scar remained in her side, which she often
showed. By her influence with heaven, she obtained
AIS


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

211
~KA
j~Z~

OLD 0O0KE.

OLD COOKE, THE MISER.

forgiveness for numbers that were ready to fall into
hell. Two hardened im~enitent thieves, who were led
to execution, tied and tortured on a cart, and attend-
ed by a multitude of devils, Catharine begged the
favor of'going with them in the tart to the city gates,
and there by her prayers and intercession, Christ
showed himself to the 1~hieves, all bloody ~and full of
wounds, invited them to penance, and promised
them pardon if they would repent, which they ac-
cordingly did. Through her intercession, her moth-
er, who died without confession, was raised to life
again, and lived till she was fourscore and nine years
old. She had the gift of prophecy, healed the sick
at the last gasp, cast out devils, atid worked mira-
des. Once making bread of tainted flour, the queen
of angels came to help'her to knead it, and it proved
to be most excellent bread, white and savory. She
drew also very good wine out of an empty hogshead;
but her numerous victories over the devil were not less
remarkable; they enraged him so much, that he tor~
melted her, till she was nothing but skin and bones.
Sometimes he amused himself with throwing her in-
to the fire, and the marks and prints of the wounds
he gave her, appeared all over her body. At length,"
says Ribadeneira, "when she was three and thirty
years old, she entered into an agony, fought the devil
valiantly, and triumphed over him at her death,
which happened at Rome on the 29th of April, 1380,
her ghost appearing to Father Raymundus, her con-
fessor, at Genoa on the same day, and her body
working so many miracles, that for the multitude of
people resorting thither, it could not be buried for
three days."
274

~II
ii
2 I

THERE was no greater pest to the medical tribe,
than old Cooke, the miser. Many are the anecdotes
of the tricks this avaricious old man used to play
to cheat medical men and save his money: such
as putting on ragged clothes, and going as a pauper
to Mr. Saunders and other gentlemen, to have gra-
tuitous advice for his eyes-gdting a letter for the
dispensary, and attending there as a decayed trades-
man, for several weeks, until detected.
Having a wound in his leg, he employed a Mr.
Pigeon, that lived nearly opposite to him, in White-
lion-street, Pentonville, to cure it. "How long do
you think it will l~e before you can care it ~" "A
month."-" And how much must I give you?"-.
Pigeon, who saw the wound was not of any great
importance, answered, "A guinea."
"Very well," replied Cooke;-" but mark this-
a guinea is an immense sum of money, and wher~ I
agree for sums of such magnitude, I go upon the sys-
tem of no cure, no pay; so, if I am not cured by the
expiration of the month, Ipay you nothing." rrl1i~
was agreed to: after diligent attendance for several
days, the wound was so near being healed, that
Cooke expressed himself satisfied, and would not let
Pigeon see it any more. However, within two or
three days of the month being up, the old fellow got
some sort of plaster with euphorbium in it, from a
farrier, and made a new wound on the place, where
the former had been, and, sending for Pigeon on the
last day of the month, showed him that his leg was
not well, and that, of course, the guinea he had
agreed for was forfeited.-T his story the old fellow
used to tell of himself with great satisfaction, and
used to call it "plucking a Pigeon."
When on his death-bed, he sent for several medi
cal men; (some would not attend:) among those
2Th

'1 1 ~
f
Ii
I
1~
41

I


i

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.

who went to him, Mr. Aidridge, of Pentonville, wa~
one. Him he permitted to send some medicine. At
one of the interviews he earnestly entreated Mr.
AIdridge to tell him candidly, how long he thought he
might live. The answer was, he might probably last
six days. Cooke, collecting all his strength, and start-
ing up in bed, exclaimed: "And are you not a dis-4~
honest man ?-a rogue, a robber, to serve me so
" As how ?" asked Mr. Aldridge, with s~irprise.-
"Why, Sir, you are no better than a pickpocket; to
go to rob me of my gold, by sending in two draughts
a day. to a man that all your physic will not keep
alive above six days! Get out of my house and never
come near me again !"

ti ~i1
ti
~
;4 ~,
K ~$1
{F 4
t
IL

N Whitfield preached before the seamen at
New York, he had the following bold apostrophe in
his sermon :-" VVeII, my boys, we have a clear sky,
and are making fine headway over a smooth sea, be-
fore a light breeze, and we shall soon lose sight of
land. But what means this sudden lowering of the
heavens, and that dark cloud arising from beneath
The western horizon? Hark! don't you hear distant
thunder? Don't you see those flashes of lightning?
There is a storm gathering! Every man to his duty!
How the waves rise, and dash.against the ship! The
air is dark! The air is dark! The tempest rages!
Our masts are gone! The ship is on her beam ends!
What next?" '1'he unsuspecting tars, suddenly arose
and exclaimed, Take to the long I~oat.
276

I

THE ENGLISH WATCH-MAKER.

STORY OF AN ENGLISh WATCH-MAKER.
So~IE years ago, a Protestant English watch.ma.
I~er, who lived at Oporto in good credit and esteem,~
had an accusationsecretly laid against him, of di-
minishing the coin of the kingdom. A sudden search
of his house was thereon immediately made, and a
small piece of gold-coin, called a new-crown, being
the tenth part of a moidore, and of the value of two
shillings and eight-pence halfpenny, was found in a
little quantity of aqua-regis; upon which, his person
was seized, and soon after sent prisoner to Lisbon;
where a legal process was commenced, for his con-
viction, in the customary and slow manner of a
Chancery-suit in England. During the course of
these proceedings, the jesuits, who always gave their
spiritual assistance to prisoners, undertook his con-
version to their religion, which a~l Portuguese consid-
er as the greatest act of piety and kindness, in being
the means of saving a soul from perdition. It be-
came natural for these people, of course, to get in-
formation of the nature of his offence. He alleg-
ed, in excuse of the fact he was charged with, that
he was only making an experiment, and to which the
insignificance of the piece of money, under opera-
tion, gave so reasonable a colour, that the jesuits be-
came willing to save him. They therefore publicly
appeared zelous to effect his conversion, but private-
ly dropt insinuations, that his safety depended on his
not changing his religion, from the well-known scru-
ples entertained in that country of sending a soul to
hell, by dismissing it from a body out of the pale of
what they so firmly believe to be the only true church,
and which otherwise might have afterwards become
saved b~ a conversion to their faith.
This scruple has very often, in that country, been
the me~s of retarding, for a long time, a condem-
Ft
nation; as when condemnation is past, execution Qr~
444'                                *  277

U-

NAUTICAL SERMON.

if


MARV!~LL0US ii1~P0SIT0RY.

~i
~1 ~i
K
~7i 4)'
I
4
'~ It
74
A *
I
I

SINGULAR TRIAL.
SINGULAR TRIAL.

dinarily follows in three days: and that man's con.
damnation would probably have taken place, had he
suffered his religious faith to become perverted. The
favourable opinion entertained ofhim, and his cause,
by the jesui.ts who visited that prison, excited one
father Carboiiii of their order, who was an Italian,
and of high character for learning, knowledge, and
worth, to pay him a visit; ~n which he took occasion
to ask him, ff he could not perform some piece of
curious workmanship in his art? His answer was,
that he thought he could make a good watch of a
size to be set in a ring. Thishe was bid to do, and
at the sometime offered any money or materials that
might be requisite for doing it. The piece of work
was finished with all haste, and delivered to him.
Father Carboni being in great esteem with his late
Most Faithful Majesty, and often con sultd by him in
affairs of the highest consequence, wore the ring up-
on his finger the first time that he afterwards went
to the palace; and while his majesty wasAiscour~sing
with him, took care to give occasion to be observed
to look often at his ring, till the king' asked him,
what he had got upon his finger that he appeared to
be so fond of. He answered, a trifling curiosity,
and mentioned what it was. His majesty desired to
look at it, which he did; and said it was a curiosity
indeed. Carbon thereon said, he knew not how to
consider it as worthy-~of his majesty's acceptance,
unless rrom its having been made in his kingdom.
The king, upon this, enquired who the mak~r of it
was? He was answered with the giving of his name,
and the mention of his unhappy situation, with eve-
ry alleviating circumstance that could soften his ac-
ion: upon hearing of which, his majesty, shak-
ingh~ head, said, with a smile, "Aih! Father! you
are a sly rogue; however, you may tell your friend,
he shall be set at liberty," which was accordingly
soon done.
27$

ii

'1
4
77
7 7
77,
4

Some years since, the county of York were deeply
interested in the trial of the father of a large fami-
1y, who, when living in the greatest respectability,
was accused of highway robbery. The trial was in
York Castle; the prosecutor was a youth of about
twenty years of age, the son of a banker, a~d the
prisoner a stout athletic man of fifty. I'he prosecu-
tor had transacted his business as usual at the mar-
ket-town; he had received several sums of money in
the presence of the prisoner; had dined, and about
five o'clock had set out on his return home. It was
a fine summer evening, and he rode gently on: in a
solitary lane he was overtaken by the prisoner, who
seized him and demanded his pocket-book: in the
first agony of surprise and fear, the prosecutorstruclc
him a violent blow with his wip; but the prisoner,
who was a very powerful man, dragged him from his
horse, knelt down upon him, and took from him his
money and account books. In this situation, the
1)rosecutor begged very earnestly for his life. As he
laid under the prisoner, he watched his countenance,
and saw that he was much agitated; the robber de-
sisted, arose, mounted his horse, and rode away. It
was then about seven o'clock in the evening; but the
young man was so much exhausted, that he did not
reach hom~ till late at night. He immediately stat-
ed these circumstances; but the improbability of his
having been robbed in open daylight,, on a public
road, and of his having lost various memorandums,
which a robber would scarcely have taken, excited
some, suspicions respecting the truth of this state-
ment.
As the jury were leaving the box, the young man
who had been robbed begged to be heard. He was
so much agitated, that he could scarcely speak: when
he recovered himself, he said. "I stand here to plead


I

V
ii j~
~' 1~i~'
ii
I
4
,~iI

THE IRISH SCHOOLMASTER'S MODE OF TEACHING
THE ALPHABET.
FATHER M'Tutor'emof the parish of O'Prosodv,
in the county of Docenius, sits himself down tfie
monarch of a sited, to teach the little puny whipsters
the Christ-Cross-row, so as to make the most lasting
impression. He has all the little fry for five miles
round, whose fathers can afford to aive fi
a week flr their education.    b    ye coppers
There was little D\ermot, little Phelirn, Terence
X~PBluderoch, and Paddy O'Drogheda, &amp;c. &amp;c.
Father M'Ttitor'em called in this manner upon
280

p.

THE IRISH SCHOOLMASTER.

MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
for your mercy towards a man who listened to my
voice when I begged for mercy from him. If he
could have been deaf to my cry, I should now be in
my grave, and he in the bosom of a respectable fam-
ily, with the wife who believed him virtuous, and the
children who loved him. Ft has been proved to you
that his connections, his character, his religious per-
~uation, would all have united to shelter him from sus-
picion; it has also been proved that I was lame from
my birth; that I am feeble; that I had exasperated
him by a blow; and that he knew I could identify
him; but the kindness of his nature preponder-
ated, it overcame the fear of disgrace; and he
suffered me to depart, although I might be the cause
of his death. If you d~ not pity his momentary
lapse, if you do not respect his return to virtue,
it would have been well for me if I bad died! It is
me that you will condemn; I shall be the victim of
the law, and he gave me my life in vain !" He was
frequently interrupted during this affecting appeal
by the tears of the jury, and the general distress of
the court. The prisoner was found guilty, and was
executed.

"1
4

I

the last ne~v comer, who, be it known, knew as
much of the alphabet as he did of thelongitude.
"You little O'Shaughnossy, come hither with
yourself. Bring your primer in your paw, and your
coppers in your fist. Brow youy nose, and hold up
your head like a man. Arrahl don't be hunting
after the flies across the ceiling; but cock your eye
and look straight at your book, that you may shoot
every letter flying.
"You see that letter that looks for all the world
like the gable of your father's cabin, with a beam
across the middle of it; that is called A-agusee A;
and that letter, the next door neighbour, is name-
sake to the little gentleman that sucks the flowers,
fills the honey pots, and carries a danin'd long sting
in his tail; that is Mr. B. and B stands for Blabber-
lip. Arrah now, what makes you pout out your lip
so? Tuck in the selvage of your mouth, blow your
nose, and hold up your head like a man. The next
is, for all the world, like the sign of the half-moon,
where Judy Mac Gluthery sells whiskey; and that
is called C, and stands for Cobbler, or Cobblers.
And you see the next, that is, for all the world, like
the broken handle o.f a pair of snuffers; and that is
called D, and D stands for Daughter; agusee Cob.~
bIer's Daughter; agusee, Blubberlip Cobbler's
Daughter. And that next is called E, which the
English fiats, bodderation to 'em, call E E, as if
there were two of them. By my conscience, th~y
might as well say cheek handkerchief,~ instead of
check handkerchief, though it was only made for the
nose-that's true! Blow your nose once more. And
that next you see, that's like a gibbet, with a little
p lug half way up, for the hangman to put his foot on.
I leaven bless you, my dear, amid keep your mother's
child from the like of it, my jewel. That is called F;
and F stands for five. Arrah, now, and what's the
next to F?"
"I don't l~now."
"Arrali, now, why don't you know?"
Z2                     281

I I
II
I?
14



11'

if


7

I


MARVELLOUS REPOSITORY.
Hearts sound as any bell or roach,
Are smit, and sigh like me

U
I
L~
41 ~
V jjt

As fine as five-pence is her mien,
No drum was ever tighter;
Her glance is as a razor keen,
*And not the sun is brighter.
As soft as pap her kisses are;
Methinks I taste them yet;
Brown as a berry is her hair,
Her eyes as black as jet.
As smooth as glass, as white as curds,
Her pretty hand invites;
Sharp as a needle are her words;
Her wit like pepper bites.
Brisk as a body-louse she trips,
Clean as a penny drest;
Sweet as a rose her breath and lips,
Round as' a globe her breast.
Full as an egg, was I with glee,
And happy as aking!        ..,
Good Lord! how all men envy'd me, '
She lov'd like any thing.
But false as hefi, she, like the wind
Chang'd, as her sex most do;
S284

NOBODY.

Tho' seeming as the turtle kina,
And like the gospel, true.
If I and Molly could agree,
Let who would take Peru;
Great as an Emp'ror should I be,
And richer than a Jew.
Till you grow tender as a chick,
SI'm dull as any post;
Let us like burrs together stick,
And warm as any toast.
You'll find me truer than a die,
And wish me better speed;
Flat as a flounder when I lie,
And, as a herring, dead.
Sure as a gun she'll drop a tear,
And sigh perhaps and wish,
When I am rotten as a pear,
And mute as any fish.

NOBODY.

SURE Nobody's a wicked devil,
The author of consummate evil;
In breaking dishes, basins, glasses,
In stealing, hiding-he surpasses.
Behold the punch-bowl crack'd around,
For weeks the ladle was not found;
How crack'd-'twas Nobody that did it,
H w misplac'd-'twas Nobody hid it.
W eyn in the school, sits Dr. Pedant,
He alls to him that is the head in't,.
" Wtio made that noise ? who let his tongue stir?"'-
" Nobody, sir;" exclaim'd the youngster.
The governess some mischief spies out;*
285

ff~

Aye me! as thick as hops, or hail,
The fine men crowd about her,
But soon as dead as a door-nail,
Shall I be, if without her. -
Strait as my leg, her shape appears;
Oh! were we join'd together! -
My heart would he scot-free from cares,.
And lighter than a feather.

flu
11
~1
p

I

I

'1

41:


i
$

MARIVELLOUS REPOSITORV.

I I
V

INDEX.

'4

And, in a passion thus she cries out,-
"Hey day! a pretty litter this is ?
Whose doing, pray ? come, tell me, Misses~
Whose doing ?" she repeats with fury,
" Nobody's, Madam, I assure you "
The lady of the house believes,-
Ar guest her~servant maid receives.
A thief, perhaps, who shams the lover,
The windows' fastenings to discover;
She hears a foot-yes, hears it plain,
And calls, " Who's there ?"-but calls in vain:
She lists--so anxious she to know,
And hears a stranger's voice below;
" Why, Jane, who is it you have got there ?"
" Lord, Madam--Nobody, I swear,
As every body can declare."
" I'm sure somebody it must be,"
" Nobody, Madam-cohke and see."
She goes, but all in vain peeps,
For any where Nobody creeps. -
She finds her gravy soup diminished;
Her ribs of beef are almost finished;
" Hey day, who those provisions took,"
" Nobody, Madam," rejoins the cook-.
" Impossible! what do you mean ?"
"hy, then the cat it must have been."
Thus Nobodyjis never seen
In Anybody's shape but that
Of a domestic dog or cat.
This Nobody, how strange, I think,
Can walk and talk, can eat and drink;--
But male or female ? why, I iveen
The gender must be Epicene.
An old offender, it appears,
Who's liv'd above a thousand years;
For Polyphemnus had his odd eye
Knock'd out by him, I mean Nobody.

I
i~Iti
I
U
I I'
It
1 ~
I I

Affinity, a Curious, --  -   -    -    -;
Adam and his wife,      -    -    .    .
Alderman, Adventeures of a dead, - -
Anna: a Fragment,       -    -    -     -
B~elphagor,   -    -    -    -    -    -
Bonaparte, Last moments of the Mother of,
Canary Bird, and the Cat,    .    .    -
Counterparts, -     .    .    .   .    -
Catharine St. of Sien,  --   -    -    -
Chicken with a Human Countenance, -
Crucifixions Voluntary,  -   -    -    .
Colossus of Rhi,odes, - - - -
Combustion, Spontaneous Human,    -    -
Conjugal Trio, - - - - \
Cleopatra, Death of, -  -    -       - -
Cameleon, account of the, - :- - -
Creed, Matrimonial,     -    -    --   -
Emperor Joseph II, Anecdote of, - -
Elder Brother, - - -. - -

Escape narrow, - - - -
Fortitude, extraordinary, -  .-
Fisherman's Law Suit, - -
Greenland Whale, account of, -
Hell, description of, - - -
Irish Wake, Description of an, -

Intoleration and Superstition counteracted,
James Jenkins the Miser, - - -
Leg, the wrong,     -    -    -    -    -
Lawyer's Patron,    .    -    -    -    -
Merchant of Venice,      -    -    -    -
Magic, School of,   -    -    -    -*   -
Miser, Old C'ooke the,   -    -    -     -
287

-     60
-140
-    109
169
-     97
-     46
253
241
273
47
261
-     45
48
-    256
-214
-    215
-    238
-133
-    228
-     57
-141
-    184
-265
-130
-    118
-193
-251
- .120
-    145
-     91

I


INDEX.

~i1
4
41 Ij
4II~
I
'4
I
~IV' I

-   3
-281
-283
-168
-61
- 264
- 107
- 252
-  217
-  276
- 229
-227
-277

/

REPRODUCED FRQM THE COPY iN THE

HENRY E. HUNiTINGTON LIBRARY;
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR RNPRODUCT1ON

Murdered Nun, Wildenheimi Castle and the, -
Molly, Similes to,  -  -  - -  -
Nobody,          -  -- - - -   -
Philosopher outwitted,  -  - - - -
Parental Tyranny, Victim of, -  --  -
Retaliation,  -  -  -  - -- -   -
Stork, Remarkable story of' a,  -  -
St. Peter and the Blacksmith,  - - - -
Sinners and the Skulls,  -  -  - - -
Servants, Magical,  - -  -  -   -
Sleeping Draught,  -      -  - -
Sermon Nautical,  -  -  -  - - -
Soldier turned Cook, . - -   -  -
Sybil and Russian Officer,  '- -  -  -
Teacher Taught,  -  -  --   -   -
Trial, Singular,       - - - - - -
Underhill, Capt. John,  - - - - -
Ventriloquist, anecdote of, -- - - -
Watch Maker, English, Riemarkable story of, -
Water, two pails of,  -  - - -  -
288

I
hi

~i'
'4' t~
iv


  
             
         
       
   
