
    ----CITATION----
        Mayer, Nathan. The Fatal Secret, or, Plots and Counterplots .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7223
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The fatal secret, or, Plots and counterplots 
            
               THE FATAL SECRET
OR,
PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS.

.l .Mhvei of the Sixteenth Century.
FONDED ON FACTS.

BY NATHAN MAYER, M. D.,
AUTHOR OF "THE COVET A M  THE JEWESS," "LEAVES 1ROX 1SPANISH hISTORY," UC.1 &amp;C.
N % N^  80C
CINCINNATI:
PRINTED A THE OFFICE OF "THE ISRAELITE," AND "DEBORAH."
1858.

i
r
i
f
J
l
4
Xr
K
T
}
r
F.

4
~I

.N

-   '
.t.         y
,°


/1
1i

TO THE
REV. DR. S. MAYER AND LADY,
THIS VOLUME
Is
MOST AFFECTIONATELY
DEDICATED,
DY TUEIR GRATEPUL SON,
THE AUTHOR.

.4l                                         r'

f  i  ( z

Entered according to the Act of Congress in the year 1858,
BY   NATh AN. MAYER,M..D.,
In the Clerk's office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Southern'
District of Ohio.

'

.

/r/,
. !


I

THE FATAL SECIRET.

CHAPTER         I.
THE NUN' S FLIGHT.
IT was a glorious night in May, of the year
15-. The moon from an unclouded sky
threw great masses of light on the rustling
woods,the leafy hills,and the white gleaming
walls of the convent of St. Ursula. The
whisper of the trees and the distant splash
of a babbling brook were the only sounds,
that mingled   with, and enhanced  the
dreamy silence, which covers earth, and
air, and sky late at night. Very dark were
the woods around the convent, and the pur-
plish silver, which the moonlight poured on
them, penetrated not farther than the leafy
summits. A feeling of loneliness and awe
that checks all admiration, they might else
awaken, is created by these silentgrandeurs
of night, and the bright cold moonshine
strews a ghostly glitter over natures's face.
The bells of the convent had poured their
sounds into the dark chestnut woods, to an.
nounce the hour of one, when a window in
the rear of the convent opened,and the figure
of a nun appeared, at the casement. The
long black robes of the order closely envel-
oped her form, but the large white veil, as
well as the unshapely cap, were thrown
back anddiselosed aface ofwonderfulbeauty.
Features of exquisite loveliness, but on which
dwelt tle cold and severe expression of mar.
ble; Cyes of glorious and diamond-like ra-
dianpe, with slight but intensely black
brows; and hair of a glossy purplish-black
hue, that hung in large and damp waves
down her back, beneath the upper garments;
all combined to give a haughty and cold, but
gloriously beautiful appearance to thenun.
She again closed the window, and pro.
needed by the light of the moon, which

poured a stream of radiance through every
casement and oriflce, through long galleries
and vaulted halls, past the small black doors
of cells and the glittering images of saints
and martyrs, now unlocking some door with
extreme caution, then swinging back an
iron grate that barred her way, until she ar-
rived at the chamber close to the chapel. In
this room, entered the nuns, as they were
received into the convent after taking the
veil, and laying aside the gorgeous garments
in which they for the last time had been at-
tired, assumed the sable costume of the sis-
ters. The garments and jewels, they laid
aside, were kept in a large closet, in the
corner of the room, which, containing many
valuable ornaments, was 'securely locked.-
The nun, taking a key from the black bag
hanging at her girdle, unlocked it, and be
gan, by the light of the moon to examine the
various garments that hung from the hooks.
She selected a robeof white satin gorgeously
embroidered with gold,and edged with white
fur; an under dress of gold and silver bro-
cade, and a chatalaine, or girdle of jewels,
which,. after spanning the waist, almost
reached the ground. A wreath of white ro-
ses and a diamond necklace were taken from
one of the drawers in the closet, and then the
nun relocked the wardrobe.
"My bridal costume," she murmured, as
with quick hands, taking ofi'the robes of the
contvent, she attired herself in the rich gar-
ments and jewels we have mentioned.- Then,
with a proud step, entering the chapel, the
beautiful woman swept to the altar, where
pale tapers were burning around a golden
cross.
"Long enough," she exclaimed; "long
enough have I been chained to the foot of the

f
E
S
j
f
t
r
s
s
t
'r
r
.
E
{
i
t
't
}
E
j   9
1
4
K 1
1
f

4

t

0"s


S.

t) 1t  PLOTS AND COUNT]I1PLOTS.

cross; long enough have chanted hymns    "You are punctual SENonA," began the
and pronounced prayers, and tried to lift my man. "No time was to be lost," the nun re-
heart to heaven, while my soul groaned in plied; "lead on MAsson."
agonising slavery; now for freedom I"    The man turned, and led the way again
Then, taking a monk's cassock apd cowl intp the forest. They had not proceeded far,
from a recess behind the -altar, she threw it when the gipsy' topped and whispered to
over her rich attire and pulled the cowl over his companion. "The horses are close at
her head. It is true the large hoops which hand; mount Senora 1'
at that time were worn to expand the skirts  The nun, with but slight assistance moun-
of the dresses, gave somewhat rotund shape ted a horse, which she only ascertained to be
to the figure, but this did not make it look such, by a touch; for it was intensely dark.
less like a monk,.since the holy fathers were The man now opened the bushes before
celebrated for protruding-. paunches.,  In them, and led the lady's horse out upon the
this disguise the nun proceeded to a small road, we have above mentioned, as .crossing
side door of the chapel, unlocked it and was the wood. A  moment after he appeared
free; she then carefully relocked the door. again, also well mounted on abeautiful steed
Creeping, along the walls, where they of the old Andalusian breed, and called to
threw their darkest shadows, she reached a the lady who still retained her monk's habit,
clump of trees,that extended from the eastern but sat sideways -on the horse: "Donot spare
angle of the convent to the principal gate your horse, Senora, but urge him well," and
fromwhich a road, bordered on both sides he gallopedon. The lady followeOl,and kept
With double rows of .chestnut trees, led abreast of him. The clattering of the hoofs
straight through the forest beyond. On one resounded through the forest
side of this road, where the heavy boughs  After two hours' hard riding on thesame
wove an arch, through which not a ray glit- road, the two took a path to-a solitary -hill,
tered, the nun, choose a path which she that raised its summit, covered with wild
followed with quick but cautious steps; this olive trees, high over the surrounding coun-
footpath being preferable to the open road, try. With the utmost difficulty the tired
sinee the overhanging ehesnut branches co- horses ascended the rugged, though notsteep
cealed her figure, the grass and moss af- hillside. The impatience of their riders at
.fording a soft carpet to her feet, unused as the relaxed pace, was frequently vented in
she was to much walking. . short ejculations. At last a platform near
'Thus she reached the forest, and was there the summit was reached and the gipsy halt-
.lost inthe deep green darkness that filled its ed, andgave aloud shrill whistle, that pier-
silent space. On every side clusters of trees cod the.olive grove, which, as we said,erown.
raised aloft their wide-spread branches.- ed-the summit.
The path led through part of this silent  Scarcely had the sound ceased to vibrate,
green wood to a little glade, all covered with when they were surrounded by gipsies.--
as, and wild flowers, and bright with DismountingMassor left the horses in their
nlight. In the midst of it a solitary charge, and helped the le4y to-ascend a steep
monarch of the wood hung his branches, to and broken path, leading to the nummit.-
eground, lasped andgarlanded by a hun. Two gipsies walked before them, separating
ed vines and creepers, that sprang up from the bushes's that concealed and obstructed
th luxuriant spil. The moon threw a crown the path, Thus they reached the mouth of
of  14 qpon its slightly waving top.  To a ,spall cave, in which for the reception of
s ee the nun proceeded, and sounded a the lady, a fire had been lighted, and4 couch
t note on asmall whistle. It was imMe- of soft woolly sheepskins prepared, 1q one
diately answered by another whistle, and was in the cavern.
soon after the disguised nun was joined by  "Where is your tribe, Massor?" inquired
a tall muscular man, in the romantic habit tho lady.        -
of .the gipsies,

7

6

'Cxr FAT.AL S ECRE'r,

"They are encamped on-the platform  be-i
low, Sefta," replied the gipsy.
The Indyturnedand beheld on the plat-
form, the encampment of the gipsies. In
the midst of the olive copse, a space of about
sixty' feet in diameter had been cleared.
This elaring was surrounded by tent cloth,
suspended from one tree to another. In the
midst of it burned a large fire, and above the
daies hung an enormous kettle suspended
from a stick, that was held in the branchings
of two'upright poles. Savory steams arose,
whenever a cone with an orange-colored,
shriveled up face, who held'the important
office of cook, lifted .the cover of the kettle
and stirred its contents with a wooden ladle.
Then would the brown -children that, almost
entirely naked, surrounded the fire, utter
yells of joy 'ii anticipation of the coming
meal; and even their parents who were lol-
ling in the laziest attitudes,.eA the ground,
would make impatient movements, or urge
the old crone to finish her task, by some flat-
tering remark. 
It was a beautiful picture. The gipsies,
with their dark complexion, raven hair, but
gaudily colored habiliments,laying around
,the' bright flashing fire, with the dark see-,
thidg mysterious looking pot hanging over it;
the tent, cloth draped in loose folds, from
branch to branch; the intensely dark green
olive wooi'beyond, all motionless:and silent;
and, above all, the beautiful blue sky with
its stars and golden moon.
The lady then entered the cave, followed
by Massor, and set down on the couch of
Olin s.,I
"Our plans are all arranged; and it is only
necessary now, for you, Senora, to promise
strict adherence to my directions. In the
altered-position you will occupy, should our
pltns succeed, immense power is at your
disposal. The exercise ' of this power I will
require once in a while, for my own benefit,
or the benefit of my friends," -
"I am  ready to yield such aid to you, in
reward&amp;r your services," replied the lady.
"Thltis all; and now Iwill leave-you to
rest, for a few hours. Good night, Donna
O oria," and the gipsy left the cavern. I
At the mention of her name the lady star-

tedland sunk back into deep-revery, which;
was finally broken, by a shout of the gipsies
below. She rose slowly, murmuring:
"Massor is right; Sister Fia hasdisappear-
ed forever, and DONNA GLORIA DA GoEZzen-
ters-theworld again. It is very lonelyhere,"
she added, looking up  t-the rocky projec-
tions encrdsted with cry tals, that reflected
the light of the fire in bright colors. From
the walls'the moss hung in fringe-like ten-
drils,and' as the fresh night wind wavedithese
delicate plants, they cast large and ghostly
shadows over the rocks. The cave was al-
ways aL rather chilling and lonely place, ek-
cept perhaps to naturalists; and at' height,
with a fitful fire chasing the darknets over
the walls; the air lifting the feathery mosses
and'waking faint moans from the holes ind
crevices of the roof; with, the dark branches
bending and creaking around the entrance,
it was peculiarly lonely and sad. Doina
Gloria, by which name we shall designate
her, seemed to think so, and, therefore, drew
the bed of skins-to the mouth of the cave,
from whence se could witness the gambols
and the conversation of the gipsies in the
campbelow.
ThAy had finished supper, and the empty
kettle testified the justice done to the meal.
One ofsthem, a handsome young fellow occu
pied a prominent position at the fire,and was
preparing to comply witly the request of the
others, and to tell a story.
"I do not remember any story at present,"
he began, "but I will relate to you an occur-
rence that happened several years ago, and
in which I took a part."
One of the gipsies trimmed the fire, while
the others composed themselves to listei.-
A haze of of glittering sparks shot out info
the darkness, and a bright tongue of flame
east a momentary light over the quiet-woods.
After a moment of hesitation the gipsy be-
gan.
"It may now be four years ago, since I
followed the trade of beggar in the renown-
ed city of Coimbra. It is a rich town, an4
the residence of many noble families; in-
deed, there,asweet-voiced beggar ata church
door, may collect considerable alms, if' he
pays attention to the trade. I did very well,


I

AL SECRET,

8                       THE    FAT
but aspiring to business above my profe
. ion, bad to leave the city. However to th
tale.
"A noble family by the name of Gom
lived there; they were not wealthy, but e
ceedingly proud, and good reason they ha
to be so, for their blood was of the noble
in Portugal. Opposite to the Universit
lived Donna Maria da Gomez, who was
widow, and ner only daughter Donna GT(
ina. Oh, but Donna Gloria was a beautify
maiden, and proud like a queen. She ha
an uncle, who was a bishop, and a steri
severe man,thathad no mercy with the fault
of others, and believed himself faultless; h
superintended her education, and kept he
almost as close as a nun. Well, I often beg
ged at the door of the University. On
morning Don Diego da Azambuja, the soi
and heir of the old duke, eyed me for som
moments, and then skid: "Thou art a smar
fellow, I believe."
I bowed, and replied modestly: thanl
your highness for the compliment," at th
same time extending my palm.
"I am willing to reward thee well,for eas2
service" he continued,dropping a gold piece
into my hand.
"The holy saints bless your highness;I
will poignard the first noble in the land, a-
your word," I ejaculated, gratefully, think
ing ofcourse that he required some servic
of this sort. But Don Diego turning quite
red, said, with a slightly stammering voice
"Silence fellow; dost know Donna Gloria da
Gomes ?'
"Do I know the greatest beauty of Portu-
gal? She drops a piece of money into my
hand, every morning at the church door.-
Oh she is kind and beautiful!" He seemed
much pleased at my reply.
"Take this note and deliver it into her
hands to-morrow morning." And he left a
. letter tied with silver thread in my hands.
"The Donna shall receive it," was my re-
Ply.
"Next morning I waited at the church
door, and when Donna Gloria dropped, as
usual,apieee of money into my hand, I slip-
pad the letter into her wide sleeve. She
turned scarlet and passed on. The morning

*1

as- after, I left another letter from Don Diego in
he her sleeve,and on the third dayshe dropped
a small rose colored note and a large gold
ez piece into my hand. The piece I kept,.and
x- the letter was delivered to Don Diego, who
d rewarded me richly. This correspondence
st was continued for some time and proved a
y, profitable trade to me.
a   "About this time, Don Menezes, who had
o- been governor of Ormus in Asia, and grown
ul prodigiously rich therereturned to his castle
d in the neighborhood of Coimbra. It was
o, not long, before all the city knew that he had
ts been smitten by the beauty of Donna Gloria,
.e had proposed, and been joyfully accepted by
r the mother and the uncle. Now thought 1,
g- my productive correspondence is over. But
e I was mistaken. It only grew the more fre-
n quent. Still, love letters could not stop the
e course of events, and the wedding day of
t Don Menezes approached. I was at the door
of Donna Gomez's house, when the proces-
k sionreturned from the city hall; nextdaythey
e were to be married in church. She was at-
tired in a robe of white satin blazing with
y gold embroidery, and fringed with white fur.
e An underdress of gold brocade glittered in
front, where the skirts were open and looped,
I with diamond clasps. Her beautiful hair
t was adorned with a wreath of white roses,
and a diamond necklace flashed on her swan
D like throat. Oh, she looked divinely beau-
a tiful.
:  "And Don Menezes walked at her side,his
face beaming with joy. A rich dress of
purple velvet slashed and - lined with
cloth of gold, admirably adorned his fine
person. A string of pearls hung around his
headgear, on one side of which, threecuperb
plumes were held by a diamond brooch.-
His sword also hung from a jeweled belt.
"Before them walked the bishop, her un-
cle. A grand festival was held that evening,
and all the neighborhood resounded with the
noise of festivity and the rich strains of mu-
sic. We, beggars, were still grouped around
the door, for food and rich alms had been
distributed to us; the bridegroom had even
ordered wine,and all mendicants of Coimbra
made merry.
"Suddenly I felt some one touch my shoul-

On, PLoTs AND Co'NTERPLoTS.                            - 1
der. Turning quickly, I beheld Don Diego, moment after, I-was alone with Donna Glo-
with a pale and earnest expression on his ria, for the priest had fled at ,theduke's
countenance, standing at ,my back; He m- first appearance. She slowly turned to the
toned me to follow, and, with a chilled altar and with a cry of agony, sank-to the
heart, Iturned away from my merry coint- stone floor. I hastened to her assistanceabut
panions, and in a moment was with hin found that she had not fainted. ' Till morn-
alone behind a pillarof the university porti- ing she remained thus cold- and.passive, but
co. There he gave me money, and bid me, conscious, stretched on the, floor, and- I at
with a:calm fervor in his voice, to give one her side. As the day dawned, I began to
more note to Donna Gloria,,and then join fear for her intellect, and hastened to ae-
him in the rear of the gardens that extended quaint her mother and uncle with:theevents
behind the Gomes's residence. After a mo- of the past night. All was confusion and

sorrow where the eve before, joy had dwel-
led.
"Don Menezes returned to Ormus and died,
a twelvemonth after, in battle. But: the
bishop, Donna Gloria's uncle, went - to the
chapel, and when he found his niece, in her
rich marriage costume, laying all pale and
cold upon the marble, he uttered frightful
imprecations on herhead. Three daysafter,
he carried her away from Coimbra,and placed
her into some convent. I heard this after-
wards, as well as, that the severest penances
were laid upon the poor Donna. God help
her, she was beautiful and good 1" and the
gipsy concluded his story with a grave bow.
Many of the gipsy women had sunk to
sleep during the recital of the tale. And
the rest now composed themselves to enjoy
a short nap on their grassy beds. But from
above the gipsy encampment,,from the mouthy
of the cavern, the night wind bore away thPe
sound of sobs and sighs; and bitter fees
watered the little flowers that waved Afrom
the edge of the hight.
The face of nature blushedwiththe scarlet
of morning. All over the bounding sea and
the quiet verdant-hills, over the villages, the
fields and the silent green woods, the bright
red flush of morning was borne by the breeze.
And then solitary beams of light flashed
through the scarlet East, on;the sea and- the
hills, and disappeared again. At last .the
waves broke into a smile of joy, as a flood of
golden sunshine swept over them; and the
trees-shook their branches to the morning
wind; and the hills seemed so many fairy
queens in diamond robes, as every dewdrop
f blazed and flashed in the glorious light.
Small birds, thatgencrally greet the morn-

ment's consideration I took the letter, and
told" the Don that I, would do his bidding.
Without the slightest hesitation, I entered
Donna Gloria's house and pushing aside the
servants that opposed me, made my way in-I
to the festal hall, and, with a low:obeisance,4
delivered the thanks of the beggars to the
bridegroom, in a few extravagant sentences.
Thecompany laughed,and Don Menezes bade
me approach to receive-a golden donation in
return. This opportunity I waited, and
while receiving his money, dropped the note
into Donna Gloria's lap. She started,atfirst
seeing me, and covered the noteimmediately
with her hand. #Two minutes afterwards I
was with Don Diego.   -        '
-  "We sealed -the garden walls, and sat anx-
iously waiting for two hours,in a leafy arbor.
A rustle, and the bride appeared, and threw
herself into Don Diego's arms. She eloped
with him that night. They did not leave
the . city, but hastened to a small chapel in
the suburbs, where Don Diego had a priest
in readiness. The monk was to marry them
-and I to serve as witness. The ceremony had
just begun, when there was a great uproar
outside. The doors were thrown open 'and
the old Duke of Azambija, Don Diego's
father entered, accompanied by a corps of
followers-
"God I# thanked, that he has spared me
this disgrace I" cried the old duke, when he
saw that they were not yet married. "Don
Diego, you will immediately enter my car-
riage," commanded the enraged father, and
as ',the young man, pale as death, sank on
his knees, the duke-signed to his servants.-
They surrounded the Don, and in spite of
his struggles bore him to the . carriage. A
2

4%


10

I"h

THE FATAL SECRET,

ing, with :iongs of welcome, are not to be
seen ingreat-numbers throughout Portugal;
fewforestare found; there; and-these birds
arenotindigenous to the long, arid plains
extending in place of them. A solitary ea-
ges' floated almost motionless, in the pure
bliteether towards the pale indistinct sum-
mit of Mount Cintra.
- Early in the morning a dustcovered gipsy
had arrived, and brought a scroll to Massor;
on the scroll wete the following words:
"The King will proceed by water to' Be-
lem; Hereturnson horseback atfive o'clock,
and crosses the chestnut grove adjoining the
royal park, on his way to the palace."
Masior .immediately communicated the
contents of-the scroll to Donna Gloria. Af-
ter considering,she said: "Then we will start
now, and when we reach Belem repose for a
little while in a hostelrie, or the house of a
friend."
Massor assented and, in a few minutes,the
horses were brought. Donna Gloria, still in
her monk's habit, was aided to mount, while
Massor lightly jumped on his prancing steed.
The sun stood in the west and was pre-
paring to set, bygathering purple and rosy
clouds, around him, when a gallant train of
cavaliers entered the chestnut grove that
bounded the western sideof the royal parks.
The road which wound its irregular and
serpentine line through this grove, was bor-
dered by clumps of trees, that, howeverwere
sometimes, supersededd by low straggling
bushes.
The train of cavaliers entered the chestnut
grove. In advance, mounted on a coal black
steed of great grace and activity, rode Juan
the Third, King of Portugal. He was then
in his twentieth year, and but slightly tinged
with that sombre religious enthusiasm, the
effects of which, afterward corroded hismind
and weakened his body. . His forehead was
not high, but very broadand smooth; his
nose straight and small with expanded nos.
triue; his eye darkly and softly brown, with
bushy eyebrows; and his mouth small and,
beautiful. He had black hair; and a clear
lark'complexion:, a black beard,of the style
now called goatee, graced his chin,-and small
moustaches aurmounted his upper lip. Cov-

ered with a serious expression his face gen-
erally looked severe,,but when he smiled a
world:ofbeautylurked in; the brightened fee1.
, tures. A d-ressof blue velvet, and a cloak of
the same material fitted well, to his finely
shaped 'limbs, though the color did not suit
his style of face. From his 'cap waved a
magnifient scarlet plume.
Behind the King, yet nearenough to reply
to his questions rode hisfavorite courtier,
Don Alphonso da Costa, countof Almaveda.
He was handsome young man, with a fair
and brilliant complexion, bright blue eyes,
brown hair that fell in long curls to his shoul-
ders, and a happy expression over his face.
He wore, like the King, a small moustacbe,
but his chin was smooth. A dress. of blue
and white satin; and a black cloak like
those generally worn at that timeinPortugal,
made, up his attire.
The rest of the King's suite as they moved
in the sunlight glowed with every color, an4
sparkled with jewels.              '
The King had just turned an angle of the
road, when he suddenly checked his horse,
and with mingled feelings of astonishment
and perplexity depicted on his countenance
he exclaimed: "Santa madre de Dios!" :.
The suite immediately halted, but,.Don
Alphonso pressed forward, to see what had
so astonished the monarch.
CHAPTER         I1.
KING JUAN       THE   THIRD.
Ot a small patch of grassy ground stood
Donna Gloria, in her rich satin robes,
sparkling with jewels. Around her bloomed
a thousand bright colored flowers, and the
chestnut trees formed a dark back ground
to her figure.
The king surprised at thesight of a lady
of marvelous beauty in splendid attire and
quite alone in the chestnut grove, had halt-
ed, exclaiming:
"Holy mother of God I"         -
When Don Alphonso had spurred for-
ward,. and seen   the lady, his surprise
equalled that of the king. Juan turned to
him, and inquired: "Who ean she bg"-
"I cah not imagine; but if your majesty
will command, I will, soon fAd out."-

On, PLOTS AND
"Go,'Don Alphonso;but inquire of her,
with all respect," Tejoined tlie king. He
waited impatiently, while the young noble-,
man dismounated, and leading his horse by
the bridle, approached thelady.
"Fair stranger,"' he began, doffing his
cap, "eur graeioti king would fain know the
nameof the beautiful lady that has so sud-
denly appeared before -him, and the business
which took-her to court."
' " Then, sir courtier, tell the king, that
but to him, will I disclose my name and
business," replied Donna Gloria, returning,
with a graceful wave of the hand the pro-
found salutation of Don Alphonso.
" But the king desires to know immediate-
ly," pa-sisted the courtier doubting whether
he should bear the bold reply of the lady
to his tnastee'.'
"You have heard my answer, sir, bear it
to the-king," *as the proud reply.
lDon Alphtbso returned, and reported to
hig ihipatient master the reply of the lady.
Juan, his 'edtiosity excited to the utmost,
rode forward' until he was opposite to the
ladiy, and then in the tone of gallantry,
then current at the Portuguese court, ad-
dressed her:
'"By our lady, beautiful dame, we can
not explain your sudden appearance all
alone in this wood unless we suppose you
one of the charming fairies Persian tales
speak of, and which, by 'your wondrous
beauty, ybu are well fitted to be."
"And like those fairies, I meet a good
and valiant prince, of whom  I ask as's-
tance," replied Gloria. '
"It is granted, by St. George; for who
could-refuse any thing to go beautiful a
lady ?"
"Youi majesty is renowned for gallantry
and fame does not belie you."
" It is easy to be gallant where the heart
feels love," rejoined Juan. "Ia what can I
be of service to you, lady ?"
- "My business Imust be conunicated to
your 'majesty alone:- O sire," continued the
beautiful wdinan, kneeling on the grass and
raisin her- white arms in the attitude of
prayer, "I appear to you alone in a solitary
wood, unknown to all around and a stranger

C0UNTERPLOT'S.                     11
in Lisbon; these, are equivocal'biteiL
stances. But believ-me, sire my ranken-.
titles me to approach you,, and my purpee
needs all the aid your royal pow&amp; 'ean
give.
The king, 'enchanted by the beauty, and
touched by the words of the unknown,'has.
tily dismounted, and raised hei from the,
ground.,
"I have given you my royal word, ldf"
he said, "and since you are a stranger in
Lisbon will you accept of' our hospitality,
and reside with our cousin the Couatess iof
Solani, in the  summer pavilion of the
palace ?"
"I will not refuse, your 'majesty's kitd-
ness," replied Donna Gloria.
" Thank you, fair lady I" exclaimed the
king, and gallantly kissed her whit' hand.
He then remounted, and dining o- the
suite, who with surprise haid listened to this
conversation,- but did not dare by the least
change of face to testify their feelings, the
king said:
"Gentlemen. we will proceed on our way;
you Don Alphouso and Don Duarte will
stay with our guest, until the carriage with
a duenna arrives which Don Carlos notifies
our cousin to send. On, then I" And the
king with a bow continued his way, while
the lords commissioned to bear the lady
company dismounted, and Don Carlos
spurred his horse across the wood, in the
direction of the summer pavilion.'  The
king's suite, as they passed7 Gloria bowed
low.
In a short time, a carriage drawn by two
fine horses rolled through the wood, and
stopped where Dohna Gloria stood. Al-
phonso opened the door for her, and Don
Duarte helped her to enter.
The carriage rolled away.
An old-lady, dressed in the hight of couft
fashion, and yet in colors, suited ito her
age, occupied the fr6nt seat. He- appear--
ance was infinitely stiff, and all her features
were drawn up in a ceremonious half sldle;
yet something of kindness peeped, as 4t
were, through her straight, self -sufficient
manner. She received Donna Gloi, with-
out a word of surprise ; but a-girlof about

I'

J
1
t
A


T -B   F ATAL-  S E aaRI
sie- years, whose tender, shape was- al-. splendid palace,- when Dame Margarita
mosthiddenbehind the, voluminous gray made a last effortt to retrieve her former
silk skirts of the, elder lady, broke into an failures.
ealamatio  of delight,when the beautiful  "This is: the Duke. of Asambu'ja' re-
stranger entered the carriage.         sidence," she said; "-there is, "
Theold lady turning to her, said in. a  "Whose palace ?" cried Gloria, all at
cold formal voice:,                    once startledout of her calmness and silence.
"Fie Maria, will you never learn to con The old lady gave a little jump ofjoy; she
trol yourself, and act properly ?" then ad- hadfound a subject ofinterest tothestranger*(
dressing Ponna Gloria, she introduced her- Carefully shewouldunwind thethreadwhosa
se~. . end she now held, carefully find out- ali
1My name, Madam, is dame Margarita about the beautiful lady. Not to be too.pre-
Munos, and this forward young damsel is cipitate she said reservedly:
my niece and godchild Maria Flunoz;, we  'The Duke of Azambuja,s."
are both companions to her Excellency the  But Donna Gloria relapsed into pilecee;
Countess di Solani, of whom your ladyship therefore, the old lady wisely resolvedto re-
is a guest, I hear."                   commence the conversation about the.Duke,
Donna Gloria merely nodded, and thus   "Have you ever seen the duke'ssou? he
sorely disappointed the -curiosity of the old is the handsomest nobleman in the kingdom.
lady, who had expected to elicit the strang- He will be married soon to Donna Espella
her's name pad business, from her answers. di Menezes, the richest heiress apd the
However Margarita Flunoz was not to be greatest beauty in Estremdura. Ier
beaten off by silence; she returned to the brother died in. Persia, and left all his
attack.                   .            wealth.to her. Not bup that, Don Diego
"HRis majesty was happy to see you, I would have married some one else, .if she
dare say; and so will my mistress ibe, I had wanted. him. He gave this, diamond
warrant you I" This second sally of the old ring to me, and used to look at me inseuch
lady's was - merely answered by a cold "in- a loving way-I" and the old lady :smirked
deed i"                               and smiled in anexcess of conceit. The
"She has not been to Court yet, else she idea was too ridiculous for even -the. alm
would talk more;, her dresses, though very gravity and reserve of Donna Gloria. So
rich are long out of fashion, too;" thus reas- she broke into a loud silvery laugh.
oned the venerable Margarita, and like a  The venerable lady, in gray silk, highly
veteraA soldier, began again:          offended, threw back her aged head and
"What does, your ladyship say to the puckered up her dry purple lips. - However
king's passion for his mother in law? is it the subjectof her conversation was' so in.
not strange? but you know they were en- teresting to Donna Gloria, that she im-
gaged when his present majesty was yet mediately asked:
prince royal; but when the old king saw  "And does Don Diego love his-wealthy r
the bride he married her himself." Donna bride ?"
Gloria returned no answer to this piece of "I have not the honor to be acquainted
court scandal; the old lady repulsed, waxed with her sentiments," wasthe offended Mar-
desperate; for she had been , exceedingly gari'a's reply., Donna Gloria stamped her
imprudent, in allowing herself to be carried little foot in i vexation.- Turning, to Maria
away by curiosity, and for the purpose of Flunos who till #ow bad, looked out of the
drawing Gloriainto conversation broaching carriage window, she repeated,he question.
the most dangerous piece. of court scandal . .In spite. of her venerable aunt's furio us
then talked of. Stillit had not drawn a glances, the damsel replied: "O yef ; people
single syllable from Gloria, or -produced a say he, rides every morning, beforewAsay -to
change in,her featpres.- The carriage had Belem, where his bride resides, and. waits
entered the city, and was driving past a beneath hei- window, until she rises and

I

On, PLOTS AND COIUNTSnRIPLOT.S e13
greets him. Rich jewels,:beautiful. Asiatic Voga, none will recognize you. Willingly
flowers, and gorgeous shawls are:selected, would 1 lay down my hand and crownat
from .every indian vessel that .arrives, by your feet--but-these are-my people'a-propern
Don Diego, to present to her. Almost every ty. My heart is my own, and I offer you 4
night, it is said, he serenades his lady;-and 1 king's true love'' Juob took otie:of Don-
have often seen him wear her colors and de- na Gloria's hands and pressed it fervently,
vices"                                  "Who can resist your majesty ?', was
Almost every word, which the damsel the answerpronounced in Gloria's sweetest,
spoke, entered like adagger into Donna Glo- most musical tones. The king pressed her
ria's heart, , "These attentions were all~paid tohis bosow.'
to me once," she sighed to herself., Meeting  After his majesty had left her, Glria
the old lady's eye, scrutinizing her features, threw herself into a large arm  chair,.and
sbe quickly resuised her former reserve, and wept .bitterly.  Her cheeks burned with
was silent during the remainder of the jour- flushes of shame, her. heart throbbed with
ney. .But the, aged Margarita, with the cun- pangs of remorse. "It is done" she sobbed;
ning of a cat, had detected and recognised "the word is spoken, and one of the desce-
the shadows that passed over the;Iina's dauts of Gomes will become a king's.ms-
face, and - a gleam .of triumph was in her tress. Thus far have I proceeded on. my
eye.                                   dangerous path" she reasoned withherqelf,
This, olglady was a curious compound of "and now I stsnd on the brinkof this abyss.
the prattling,gossipping,.malicious old spin- Is there no escape ? yes, I will fly a second
ster and theastatelyi ceremonious and strait time! Will go.to Coimbra and thspwmyself
faeAd 4uenpa,. She had been companion to at my mother's feet."
ladies, of rank. ever since ,her youth, and  Gloria. was evidently ,a creature of rash
foun4itprofitable, in her line of life,to adopt impulses. Without sound judgment to con-
the latter character; but nature would fre- trol her, without the least experience to di-
quently 'overleap all assumed manner,,and reet her, while strong unbridled passions
show her the vulgar, spiteful, talking old lived in her bosom, she was always ready to
maid, she really was.                  foJhlow the impulse of the moment, Whether
The carriage halted in an ample court.- fqr good or evil.
On the small marble steps, in front of an ex-  She hastened to.the window, and throwing
tensive.pavilion, stood a middle aged lady of back the our ins of velvet, deeply fringe
kind aspect. It was the Countess di Solani. with gold,  oh hung from the ceiling to the
She received thestranger with all the warmth bright scared carpet, she opened the long
of a kind beart and Southern manners; the heavy casement.~ Before it, stood an old
beauty am' evident distress of Donna Gloria, chestnut tree with its long branches droop-
as well as the great interest with which she ing to the window, and its leaves sweeping
had ilspired the king, prepossessed the coun. the wall. From amidst the foliage frowned
tess in her favor.                     the swarthy, face of Massor. His black eyes
, After a few expressions of welcome, Glo- glanced coldly at Gloria. With perfect ease
ria was taken to azagnificentsuite of roons, :he sprung to;the ledge, and enteredby the
which shewas desired to consider as quite open window.. Qoria started back with a
her own. The countess made -over her slight cry of surprise and terrr.
yoong companion, Maria Flunos, to Gloria,  "I have been listening during the whole
for a chambermaid.. .evening' he said,"and'i would not have dis-
..In the evening the king visited his beauti- turbed you, fair, Donna, were it not to re-
falguesh .They hadia long conversation.-  mind you of youupurpose. Are you raven-
As %Jw)rose to, leave Juan, his cheeks all ged already on Don Diego, who is now. giv-
erimson,.and his eyesbrilliant,. said.-,  ing his perfidious heart to-your husband's
"As:soon as possible the documents, shall sister, rich as she-is'withs thewealth,that of
be made out. Bearing the name Countess di right belongs to you? Have you already re-

r
I
f


T"a ,FATAL SacaRE,

warded:my aid in your escape? Already
hutabled' the pride of the old Duke do Asan-
buja? 'Already punished your uncle's sever-
Ity, and the spite of the abbessof St. Ursula?
Hav you done all this already, that you are
preparing to throw yourself at yourmother's
feet, to be spurned with a durse? Remem-
ber the past:and, also, remember that with
a king's love goes his power!" With these
last words, the gipsy made his exit, and
Gloria, who had listened in silence to his
*otdtgave asigh of relief.
"Yes," she said repeating Massor's words,
"with king's love goes a king's power I"-
Her, eye met a full length picture of Juan,
that loaned against-the wall. "He is a hand.
soe cavalier after all," she thought, and
afng for Maria Flunoz to undress her.
A fewdays after, all the court knew, that
a beautiful' Countess di Yoga, 6f whom no
one had' ever ,heard before, was reigning
distress of the king.' And the proudest no-
bles, when they had favors to-'atkofthe
monarch, paid their respects, to the favorite.
0 H A P T E R I I I.
'I"a VfAaDI'r' S  CAVE.
We leg our readers to accompany us to the
north of Potugal. Near the' north eastern
boundary ofthekingdom,the Moneotvo modt-
tains- lift their ble sumnits-to heaven.-
'three or four thil'y wooded peaks crowd-
ibg together, ho as to leave but very narrow
pasdes between their rocky sides, form the
ifst6 extended point df this mantain chain,
toward the Eet. Between them winds the
highway' from Miranda to Mondorvo.
The moduntain sides presented a gloomy
nspect of bare ro&amp;kSand dark green foliage.
On inadessible butments of granite, birds of
prey had btiilt their nests; their hoarse shrill'
cry re-echoed from the mountain sides as
they went o0t in search of food.
It' was a fewdays after theevents wehave
described. The hush of sunset had died
on:the sky, and the last golden beams, van-
(shed' fom the mountain -top#. Pale sha.
dows rolled like volumesof thin smoke down
the.mountin tsides and hhuidarkhees over,
the valleys. -On the tky,the'pale present of
the 'moon and a thousand bright stars had

risen, and shted a faint, obscure lighton- the,
it'ght below.I
In a dark gorge behind the last of these
mountains, sat two men on a rocky fragment
thatjutted from the mountain side' across a
black silent brook winding around the base.
The men were engaged in earnest conversa-
tion.
"It is a thing-of necessity," saidtheo elder,,
a tall and noble looking man of about' twen.
ty. seven years. "If we do not make away
with him, the noblest and best of Israel did
at the stake. Were there a choice, I would
choose anything but that; but there is nW
alternative. Either Firma Fidafalls, or the
Inquisition is- introduced"
"But'brother," replied the otheri"will not
the king sanetion it, nevertheless? One mes6
senger dead, will not another he sent?"
"No Enrique; Don Lionel Dian, our 'glo.
rious prince, has assured me thatthis sohemd
frustrated, the king will make no Wifterut.
temptto introducethe Inquisition.- ',etides
we act merely in self defetee,-by destroying
one who aims a death blow at our z'eigion,
our wealth, and our very lives."
"But murder will stain our soul; by sa-
ving the body, our purer part, out innocence,
the heaven within our breast is lost,"' was
the shuddering teply.
"My gentle Enrique, jou view'this thing
wrongly. We are executing a. doom, resol-
ved upon and spoken by the wiseet and best
of ou' nation, as a dreadful necessity. And
then,is the command of'Iterael's prinee,whoe
true knights we are, nothing'to you?"- -
"And is the Lord's-command, not above
his? However, I have once promised and
will not recede now."$
"Nay, if you speak of receding, you are at
full liberty. My arm is strong enough' to
dispatch an old shaveling without your as.
sIsta e.'
"N y, Hernando; I desert thee not; 1-will
share thy peril, as I have shared thy joy"
"Do as thou wilt, Enrique; still, consider,
my brotherthat improbable aslis,wemay be
discovered. And then you know whatawaits
ua We also have a sister, Enriqueand'she
well needs protectorr" and the youngman
forced down a rising sigh,' "Go back my

14

,.,j,
0

On, PLOTS       AND    COUNTERPLOTS.                      15
brother, and let me, alone, accomplishthe strances.  Thuts bound and :gagged' they
deed."                  .               were dragged across the rock, bridging'the
"Not for all the jewels of Ormus," replied creek, to the place where theyihad been !sit"
Enrique. "God will protect our sister," and 'ting. One of the men crept under 'the over-
he threw himself on his brother's breast,  hanging willows; he soon returned with a
"Silence," whispered Hernando a moment small, skiff that had beeneonceoaled beneath
after, "I hear a voice." Both brothers stood heir branches. Into this skiff ,Hernando
in listening attitude.                 and Enrique were placed, while two of'the*r
The evening wind brought the sound of captors followed and took 'tholoars.2 -"he
the clatter of horses hoofs.  Immediately skiff shot through the black waters-of the
mounting the rocky mass, on which they had creek,under an arch of over hanging wiflows.
been sitting, they climbed to an elevated The branches overhead excluded everyday
point on the rocks. . From  it, they could of starlight. A few minutes had passed when
overlook the highway. A Spanish peasant, they stopped, and. the young men were-for.
on a loan shaggy horse, trotted along. He ced up a rude stairway, hewn in the roek.-
was returning home from a dance, and be- A large cavern opened -its blaek mouthto
gained the way by singing short snatches of receive them. Bet a sudden turn brought
popular ballads. The mountains rung back them into the full blaze of a fire.
the echo. The burthen of the song ran:    By its light they saw a number of men
Oh, loveI will you come to the silvery spring,  gathered aroundalarge table. 'They were
ere*thefloranger ;o   the west windin  engaged in eating and'drinking, short witi-
Oh ome to meet me love I             cisms,and loud laughs, seasonedsthe coarse
Perceiving the two young meni who still supper. The bandits, for such they 'were,
occupied their prominent position, he stop- wore costumes of different shape and make.
ped his song, and cried:                Some were dressed in silk garments and em-
"A pleasant evening to you my masters!I broidery, all soiled' and' dirty, some in-pea-
-are you.going to Moncorvo to nigit ?" I sants' garb. t the back Wall of the cave a
"No, ny good man," replied Hernando, curtain seeme to cover, the entrance to
and signed to his brother to retreat behind another apartmin. Arms of the most va-
therocks.                               rious kinds lay  the floor in. disorder, and
"I am sorry to hear it,,it would have been guns of the roughest description were' stack-
good company for me. Two are better than ed, ready to be used at a moment's warning.
one, as my grandmother's confessor used to A small man rose from the head of the table
.say: and it is not over secure in these moun- as the two bandits entered with their prison.
tains." 'ers,and said:
The young men had already disappeared. "You are early, my men; take them to-the
"Every man takes care of himself, as my treasure roomI" The two bandits' led the
grandmother's confessor said, when his ser- prisoners to the back of the cave, pushed
vant tumbled in the river, and be stood idly aside the cutain and made them enter.-
on the shore. But either those young coks The next apartment consisted of an aluost
are bandits.themselves, or they'll know what round recess of the cave. Its walls were
it is to be robbed, before morning."  The rougher than those of the outer cave. Here
peasant murmured this as he rode on.    t nd there, where 'the fissare of the granite
Other .eyes had alto observed the young had allowed a little dust and earth to aou-
men; and as they retreated behind the rocks, mulate, plants with thick'hairy leaves''clung
each wasseized by two stalwart men. The to the walls. From the ceiling, pieces of
attack was so sudden, that both were pin- rock projected, which in the course of time
ioned before they had time to show the least had been shaped into curious' forms, and
a'esistanee. Having tied their arms, the men crystalizedbythe water, that oozed contiA-
wero proceeding to gag the two youths, who ually through the roof, andfellwith an ebbo.
made'the air resound with their' remon- ing splash. A door'on each side led into


16

Tu FATAL SMOREM

two more apartments. The door.'to -the
-ight wasthrown open by one of the bandits
and theptiadners bid to enter.,
After trifling their pockets of all the gold
they contained, and taking every; ornament
of value from'their- clothes, they were releas-
ed ftom the gag, and left to themselves. The
bandits carefully barred.the door.
'"Hernando," began Enriquein a low voice.
#lernando, we are captiveel"
e*Or captivity is of little.,importance, a
goodranson-will-release us; but the priest'
wil pass thesemountains while we, to wholn
thisgreatwork has been entrusted; we who
ought to have intercepted' and killed him,
must Jay inactive in this cavern. The em-
peror's.letter, will be brought to 4oan, and
Israel's cause is lost;" the young man gnashed
his teeth in impotent rage, and tried to break
thercords which bound him.,-   .-
"Is it not possible'that we might gain the
bandits to our- cause, brother? and they
would then kill Firma Vida and blood would
not soil our -hands." Enriquesaid this in-
quiringly.
"The work would still be ours, brother.-
I can not comprehend your subtle sophistry,
which would throw, the guilt on the tool and
free its employer.. Besides. no bandit would
attack a priest' replied Hernando,
"Brother," cried Enrique:in a voice trem-
bling with joy, "my hands are free. The
bands were tied so loosely that I could slip
,my hands out. Wait, and I will undo your
cords." He proceeded to free his. brother.
The room was very dark. . By touch they
examined its walls.
"Here stands a large chest, but it is
locked," whispered Hernando.
,"And here is another," replied Enrique;
"wait brother I will force it open."
,"You can not do it without tools,and the
robbers have.taken our swords and daggers,"
replied, the elder,                  .
"Come and help me, Hernando; perhaps
our united strength might force open the!
lid."
After several unsuccessful efforts, they at
last despaired and were about to give up the
task, when Hernoando was startled by a sud.
deg cry ofpain from his brother.'

"Great Heaven! what is it," he exclaimed,
as he turned to the spot from whence the
'sound. proeeded.'
, "'Tis nothing;" replied Enrique, "my foot
slipped and struck some subtance on the
ground."'
"2ee what it is."
"'Tis an axe !" lie cried in a joyful tone.
Hernando taking theaxefrom-his brother's
hand gave two or three stout blows on the
chest, but was interrupted 'by his brother
who exclaimed: "For heaven's sake, hold!
the noise will bring the robbers here."
Hernando,immediately-stopped and listen.
ed for some moments. The noise had not
attracted any attention. He now carefully
inserted the axe between the box' and lid;
using it as a lever, he forced open the lid in
a few moments.
The breaking of the look caused a crash
which, however, penetrated not beyond the
thick rocky walls of the cavern. "Bercau-
tious brother," said Enrique.
The chest was full of gold and jewels, in
the form of necklaces, bracelets and .similar
ornaments. This the brothers ascertained
by touch. Suddenly, Hernando cried: "1I
have found 'a dagger, and here is also a
sword I" and he drew from the chest the
aims; for amongst other articles of value the
banditti had jeweled arms too. Enriquecal-
so possessed himself of a sword.
"But," he said, "of what avail are arms
against a securely barred door I"
"True; too true !" After a few moments of
silence Hernando cried: "I have it come
brother," and they hastened to the door.-
It was barred on the outside by two'. strong
wooden planks, laid in massive iron holders
from the wall on one,. side to that on' the
other; thus completely crossing the door.-
Hernando' took the sword, and unsheathing
its thin, but strong blade, inserted it between
the door- and the wall. It was done with
perfect ease. He then pushed it up to where
the plank crossed the door, and tried to lift
the heavy bar. It was 'impossible.' The
bliAe turned in his hand, and would have
broken, 'had he not relaxed his efforts. In
despairhe dropped his arms. The'sword still!1
retained its positions He found that it had

"I

OR, PLOTS AND 'COUNTBRPLOTS.                              17
entered the wood. A new hope crossed his  "He is passing now," he cdnthiuedi a
brain. . He moved the blade with a sawing few moments after, "yes iitmustbehe; alarge
motion, and began to cut the bar through. figure wrapped in i horsemans -clk."'
Enrique, to whom  the mode of sawing the  "The robbers have stopped him!" *his-
plank was communicated began-at the lower pered he again. Hernando also perceived
bar. After an - hour's hard work the door that the sound of hoofs had ceased.
could be dpened.                          "Strain your eyes, Enrique; for God's
The brothers now cautiously listened.- sake, look," he gasped.
-There was still a considerable body of ban-  The sound of voices in altercation was
ditd' in, the outer cave, some asleep, some heard below.
jt~king-and drinking. "Letus enter the other "He refuses to surrender," reported now
room, brother," whispered Enrique, "per-- Enrique. A heavy groan was borne by the
haps some more prisoners are there, whom night wind to their ears, and Enrique saw:
we may release." The two bars which lock- the dark figure of the priest dragged to 'the
ed the other door, were easily lifted from ground.
their holders,and the door on the left side of  "They have killed him!"
the round apartment opened. They found a  "The Lord be thanked," responded Her-
lady there, sleeping on a 'couch.  A -tll nando, fervently.
torch shed asmoky light over the bare,rocky The lady had listened in the utmost ter-
walls, on a small bed, and on the lady that ror to their broken ejaottlations. 'Enrique
slept upon it. Her hands we:-e tied. On now quieted her.                     1
the floor along-side of the bed stood a wood-  "Stay  here, brother," said  Hernando,
en bowl, and a pitcher half full of water. "while I look for an opportunity to escape,"
Enrique gently awakened the lady, and bade and he left the apartment to watch behind
her be quiet. She was greatly surprised to the curtain.
see the twoyoung men there, and they hds-
tened to tell her how they had been captured,    C H A PT E R   TV.
and were trying to liberate themselves.            T H  IE a c A P.
"We shall not leave you: benind, lady," Before proceeding further with our tale, it is
said Enrique.                           necessary that we give the reader more in
"Thanks, thanks," replied she, "I have formation about the persons that have already
been now a prisoner for two months;" tears appeared, than it has been possible to do in
streamed from her eyes, and with difficulty the preceding chapters.
she repressed loud' sobs.                 Doubtless the reader has already seen,
"We must wait until the dawn of day ap- that the tale which the gipsy related to
pears. The bandits tired of their night's his tribe 'at their fire, was the, history of
work or revel will sleep then. But -if a Donna Gloria's life. How she -became aoel
chance occurs we will escape before that quainted with Massor, and when the plan
time. The difficulty is, that we must pass for her escape was concerted, we know not.
through the outer hall;" so said Hernando. But- concerning Massor we mayinform the
The brothers then examined the room and reader, that a few years before the. beginning
found that it had an air hole nearthe ceiling. of out tale he entered the gipsy gang, was
Enrique mounting on Hiernando's shoulders accepted as one of their tribe, and,in a short
reached. it, and saw that it overlooked the time, by his evident talents'and sagheity rose
road; just then the sound of a horse gallop to -be their chief. He frequentlyabsented
ingover the stones was heard. Enrique strain, himself- from  the camp, but, returning al-
ed his..eyes to distinguish any one 'passing. ways with a full purse, which he shared
"TIatis the priest," murmured Hernando in with them, remained the reigning favoriteL
tones of wrath  -Of his history before joining them, theband
I: can not see him distinctly," said En- could tell nothing. The same foung gipsy
rique. . "Wait a little yet." who had related Gloria's history to the tribb,
3


TnE F'ATA'L SeCRET,

had? related it to Massor previously, when
theysrere encamped' in the north of \Por-
tugal. " Jeredpon, the chief-left the tribe
th day fiter,:'to discover the convent where
the lady was bonfihed. - He had no difficulty
in discovering it,- And, in disguise, hired
hijuself to the abbess as a gardener. This
gpve him opportunities;to- converse with
Goria, ad, skillfully arousing her impul-
sive nature by picturing bright scenes of the:
outer world,-:iadaced-her to escape.-.-MHe
promised to place her-in the way'of the king,
to whom Gloria intended to relate ;the his
tory of her life, and ask fot justice, and the,
hand of Don Diego de Azambuja.
But Massor, who knew the ways of the,
world better, supposed that the king, in-
flamed by the beauty of Donna Gloria, would
make her his mistress, However, in either
ease the lady would occupy a high position.
The events fully testified the justice of Mae-
sor's supposition. Donna Gloria became the
mistress of Juan.
. The reader may inquire: what interest
could Massor have in this? It evidenJy
was his purpose to secure a very powerful
friend at court. . This. he accomplished by
aiding the beautiful Gloria to escape, and
conducting her to the king.. Had she become
Duchess, de Amambujas he would probably,
have been, served equally welL As for en-
enribg Donna Gloria's aid 'he always held
her fate in his hands, as will hereafter be
shown.
*     -~-     *      * -    *
. HernandoAnid-Enrique, were the sons of
Leviticus s * an Israelite, He had 'been
captain-in the Spanish ntvy, but was com-
pelled to leave his.country, when Ferdinand
and Isabella expelled the Israelites from
Spain.: Emigrating, with many of his na-
tion, to. Lisbon, it' was not long, -before
Emanuel the Great,'father-of Juan, employ-
ed the able captain in,-hisEastIndia'srvice.
But-when king Enfanuel married; a Spanish
pnieess,,and, through the entreaties of his
beautiful and dearly beloved -queen, was
moved, oissue.an edictsimilar to that of the
Spadish, monurehs-i-an edict which-offered
to-the Israeolitestbanighmentor baptism, ani
slareryt inease of tilltemaiting in thebeun.

try afterthree month'swithoat being baptized
-Costa was compelled to accept either the
cross or the chains of a galley slave. For,
when he returned from thelEast Indiesi'the
three mohths- of grace had aleady expired.,
He was then father ofone- lovely boy, and
knew his wife and child must sharehis dbm.
So he received baptism. 'We setreely need
say, that, like-many others, he still-praetised
the religion of' his fathers in seeretk' And
truly, the heart can nevercast-off 'the- faith,
which we have received- with-cur mother's
milk,- our-father's teachings, and -with the
first thoughts and first bright -pidtures -that
dawned upon our childish mind. T40
holy recollections of parents and childhdodf-
too many -fdid memories and sweebassocia+
tiqps, too many reasonings'that,because they
were the earliest, made an impression:never
to be effaced, and too many hopes and fears,
bind us to the religion whichever it is,:that
we may have received from our parents.-"
Man may externally conform to this,. or that
custom and ceremony, but the religion of
his parents remains the religion-of his heart.
Captain Costa-was baptised.- - -'-1-
About ten years after, having faithfully
served the king; he was appointed governor
of one of the Est India colonies. When
the natives soon after, arose to expel-the
Portuguese invaders, Costa fell, bravely de-
fending his, post. -His family ;returned-to
Lisbon, where the king, in reward of the
father's services, ennobled them, and made
the eldest son, Herntndtot6 lieutenant of the
royal body guards. Enrique and- Maria da
Costa resided with their mother at Belem, a1
suburban village, laying near the sea; they
were in possession of great wealth, which
Leviticus Costa had brought, partly from
Spain and paitly accumulated in the East
Indies. Their uncle, Joseph Alvira, was
body physician of the king. --
Juan the third,loved his-stepmother. Elea-
nora of Austria-a princess6f eminentbeaui-
ty-had been engaged to him, ad hisfather
Emanuel, intended to resign the crown of
Portugal to his sa, after the mrieiageiliWa
been completed. But, when Eleatiora' came
to Lisbon, her-beauty arodsed thewlo* oftthe
fiery old king, and-he married- the pritsess

On, PL-os AND         COU N     RPLOTS. 19
himself, r'etaining, at thw sazhdA time, his Portugal, and waited fot thia"Priest in the
crown. Juan, disappointed in his love and mountains, when theyreediied-news ,4f--his
ambition,-was-1yet wise- enough to bidehis approach. --We have -seen how they-were
time;- 1When -Einanudi diedyhe,,agaimst all -captured by- bandits, and :freid themselves
the remonstrances of his counsel,'desiredto to witness from a small air holedledeath of
marry-the dowager queen. This act woula the p,riesb.--1 We now -return--to'where we
have-- brought on his land, the Pope's Curse left them at the end of Chliter third.'
and the enmity of Eleanora's brother, the - Hernando returned, aftertwo hours pain-
emperor Charles V. The queen herself was ful watching. "The bandits sleep," he said; '
opposed to his wishes. She, however, made "Now  we must endeavor to escape, and
use of hislove, to further her favorite pro- should we find one or two-sentinels, before
jet-the introduction of the Inquisition. the cave we will overpower them as silently
In consequence of her prayers, Juan sent a as possible."
priestkwhow bore the appellation of Firma  "It is a desperate plan," replied Enrique.
Fidepwitha letter to Charles the fifth, in- "For, the least noise of a struggle will waken
quiring of him how best to introduce and the sleeping robbers."     -
organize .the Inquisition, as it was then es-  "I't is indeed-desperate," said Hernando,
tablished' in Spain. This news fell like a "but we san attempt nothing else 1"
thunderbolt on the secret Israelites. For "Let us on then," said Enrique. -
the Inquisition, once established, would  They approached the curtain that hung
watch,deteet, and destroy them. They must before the entrance to the outer cave. Her-
eitherabandnoh their beahtiful Portuguese nando slowly raised it, while Enriqueiad
home, or cast away the last outward ceremo- the liberated lady crept out.
nies and observances of their faith, and ed. -The, fire had burned,- down- to a heap of
ucate their children as true Roman Catho- glowing coals, that emitted a dull reddish
licav These were the dreadful alternatives light. Around it, on heaps of-grass, leaves
open to' them should the Inquisition be es- and straw, covered with their cloaks, lay
tablished. It can then be imagined, how the bandits. Nothing could be heard but
they counselled with each other in what the regular breathing of the sleepers and the
way most successfully to, oppose the intro- soft splash of the water before the cave.-
duction of their greatest enemy. At a secret The two brothers grasped their swords and
meeting, it-was resolved to send two young daggers in readiness, ahd proceeded with
men to intercept the priest Firma Fida on great caution to traverse the cave, and ap.
his return; t6 kill-him and take the emper- proach the entrance. The lady walked be.
or's letter away.- Thus, temporary obstacles tween them. - Suddenly they came to halt.
would be thrown in the way of the hated Immediately across the entrance of the ear-
measure; on- adoption of a new plan the Is- ern, bn the floor, lay the'sleeping-sentine.
vaelites would endeavor to combat it again. His half closed hind was on the glowing  '
At that time, there lived in Portugal a man fusee of his musket. They, -atliiously step-
of great abilitis by name.of Don Lionel ped over his body, tremblitig with apprehen.
Dian. He was a secret Israelite and, more- sion. The long garments of the lady drag-
over, a descendant of Judah's royal race, ging after her, touched his hand for a lo-
the family of David. Therefore, all Israel- meant. It woke him. -
ites looked'up to him as their rightful prince. Fortunately thedullhes of s ep'stillhthng
He begged that the work of intercepting over his senses, and turning hhiihbestothb
FirmaFidaimight be entrusted to him. But. inside of the cave he'sluinbeed o  -Our
the Israelites anxious for his safety would fugitives- -Passed 'safely by. At thfbet of
not consent. Many others offered to under- the steps they found three skiffs. Theoboth-
takithe'task; but finally-the brothers, Her- ers choose the lightestone,'and,looseninghe
nandond Enrique da Costa were chosen. others so that -they- floated -down; On the
They proceeded, secretly, to' the north of black current, entered it, witlithe lady.


Tnu RFATAL SuoRr, 

. j'ofd,'? whispered Hernando, "I have
forgotten something, and he again ascended
the steps and entered the bandit's den.-
Enrique and the lady waited in almost un-
sufferable anxiety.
A few minutes elapsed and Hernando had
not returned. 'The night was still as death.
Thick drops of sweat\ rolled from Enrique's
brow and his heart stopped,with anxiety; a
few moments longer and Hernando was still
absent. The night wind rustled through the
willows. Enrique arose and began to re-as-
cend the slippery steps. The lurid light
that -shone from the-rocky entrance on the
black. brook was intercepted. It was Her
nando. A joyous glance-a sigh of relief-
gnd the brothers were seated in the skiff.
Hernando carried a bundle wrapped in his
silken scarf, and held a parcel, enclosed in
a cover of clotn of gold. After the bark had
floated, down the stream for some time, and
was distant enough from the cave, Hernan-
do used the oars, and Enrique steered to
the- opening in the willows, where they 'had
embarked. They landed and shoved. the
skiff into the stream. ,
The brothers now hastened to find the se-
cret place amongst the rocks, where they had
hidden theirhorses, before their capture.-
Fortunately they had escaped the notice of
the bandits. They mounted, Hernando ac-
comodating the lady with a-seat, since his
animal was the stronger.,
"Now,brother," said Hernando,"let us ride
slowly, and with great caution, around the
base of the mountain, to where the road en-
ters Moncorvo. Choose those places where
the shadow ip deepest, 4an1 the grasp softest;
for I am very much mistaken if many ban-
dits arenot around, and we need both co-
ver and silence for our safety."
Enrique nodded, and the brothers rode on.
The morning star flamed in the sky and
greyQbscurity began to veil the azure dark-
ness of.night&amp; s.
Suddenly, Enrique stopped and beckoned
$o biabrother. "Histi the sound of steps I"
he whispered.
It was the tread of men.
Hernando and Enrique retreated behind
one of several clumps of trees, that 'ringed

the foot, ofthe mountain, likean emerald
chain.
They were some bandits returning from
the depredations of the night and conversing
with each other. "We captured two.. fid
birds, last night," said one; "and call mea a
skulking coward, if they are not of conse-
quence."
"I hope we'll lift a heavy ransom then,"
said another. "I must buy me a newsword
knot, and golden cross for my sweet-heart''
"Golden birds can not come amisa to me,'
interposed another tall, burly fellow. 'I
think these two youngsters were especially
sent by heaven on my account;"' aed' he
piously turned up his eyes.
"Why, what makes thee think so, thoa big
bellied, wooden headed bully?" criedithe
first robber.
"Because I owe an account to'my father
confessor."
"And promised. to pay him from the neAt
ransom, I'll warrant,"
"'Tis true; and father Cyprian, shall get
his money."
"Why, thou dull-eyed fool, I never thought
the father would lend thee money; but if he
has, by the holy virgi's :rown, you'll pay
good interest;" and the robber laughed.
"'Tie not for money lent," resumed the
tall one, "but for sins forgiven. The father
has given me absolution at various-times,
for which I owe him money yet."
"Let us bear thy account; I have one to
settle with the father too," said another ban-
dit,
"I owe him for one farmer robbed, two
pistols, for two ladies eight pistoles and for
a fat citizen three pistoles."
The robbers had now 4rr' v opposite the
place where the fugitives were\on cealedi,
They trembled with apprehension ett they
might be discovered.I
But not only were they coveredwith dark
shadow, but the bandits were sleepy aid
careless. Joking and singing, they passed
on.
At seven in the morning, the brothers ar-
rived at the gate of a stately house in Mon-
corvo. It belonged to a secret Israelite,who
received them with great kindness, and re-

OR, PLOTS AND
commended the uhknown lady to the care of
his wife and- daughters. Whed he had ta-
en .the brothers-6 apleasant apartment,
en'the eastern side of the mansion1 he anx-
ieusly inquiredsof them concerning their
success. -Enrique related. to him what he
ha'd witnessed from the air hole in the rob-
ber's den, and; all about their captivity. .
A'But are you sure the priest is dead?" in-
'quired*heir host.
. Enrique wee silent, but'Hernando quietly
dropped one end .'of the scarf which was
wrapped around a handle he still held in his
arm. From it, rolled the bloody head ofl
Firma Fida, and the bright mording sun
thre* golden gleams over the convulsed, ri-
gid countenance of the dead priest
Enrique. started .back, and the Israelite
shuddered.
"I found itso in the cave," said Hernan-
do.
- '"And theEmperor's letter?" inquired their'
host  .--
"I have it, here," replied HernandA, draw-'
ing ftom his. bosom the parcelIvrapped in
cloth of gold, with some largesese depen-
ding-from iti They borb the arms of Spain,
Gerinany, the Netherlande and Milan. The
Israelite nodded, arid embraced the young
men. He then left them to their repose.
CHAPTER V.
u.9 s'B nRBT COONCLAVE...
Ontye high.steeet pfBelem, suburbann vil-
lage of Lisbonjust where the street made
a rather abrupt turn towards the riverstood
an inn. Its, position, at the bend of theI
street, enabled the inmates to view  thisI
thoroughfare in its entire length, as iteame
straight up the village, turned and deseen-
ded to the bankeof the river. As shis Street
was a continuation of the road that connee-
ted Lisbon-with the village, and ended in4
the, public landing place, or wharf, it may
be imagined that it- was alive 'with men,I
horses and 'vehicles during the wholeday.I
At the bend, just opposite the inn, the streetI
of' Olives branched off, and led . out: into
blooming fields and green woods. Manyno-
ble, palaces, sad beautiful country seats
fedted on this street. Duringithe day, quietI

0o U N TER P L OTS.                '21
~reigned. But at night the palaies. shond
with lights, and sounds -of gaiety fBoated
from the illuminated windows.: Still later,
muffled cavaliers would make th'air resound
with their melodious voices.
All this might be observed from the ide.-
The side walls fronting the Higlistret' wore
adorned with small niches, inwhiehtood
rude images of saints, plentifully diaped
with a mixture of cobwebs and dirt. The
inn, itself, was built in thit serious style,
which still predominates in the cities of the
Pyrenean peninsula. : It the time we speak
of, it was the latest style of arebitbetuii.-.
The upper stories projected several fed6 be-
yohd- the lower rooms, and were, u.ppofrted
by:pillars; thus forming the roof-of-tse veran-
dah thatled around two sided of : the inn -
Again the windows, of the upper rooms
were -set in recesses that,like littleboies,
stood out from the walls, aidoverkung the
street. , The:roof was flat and guarded by ia
wooden railing, from theinti'ticke of which
bright.green branches and gayflowers peep-
ed. In front of the establishment,a weather
beaten sign bore theilgure of-Saint Ignaius;
from this the-inn received itisiname.,,
It was late -at night.   The% heavens
were dark and angry. The clouds hung
low, and were seamed with rugged :and flee-
cy white. Mighty gusts of -wind swept
through the streets, and howled past -nar-
row courts and alleys, There was evidently
a storm at sea,.forthougb it rained 'not, the
air -was filled with fine particles -of spray.
The waves of the.,Tagus bounded-with a hof-
low, resounding noise upon itsibanke, while,
loud through the night, could be heard the
sound  of the billows dashing upon the elib
of the rocky ,e6 shore.
Every lightihad: vaniehed,butftwo or three
solitary gleamenthat struggled through'the
darkness, from some bedroom: windows.
One room of' the inn. formed an exception
to the general quiet and silence, that seemed
to invest it., This apartment, watlage
though low,d&amp;fd situated beneAth-thegiound.
it communicated by a secret trap dooi with
the cellars of the inn.
Silver lamps filled with perfumed oil'lung
from the ceiling, and all-around .the walls


Tus FATAL SecnsT,"
gleamed beautiful branches loaded with ta- looks and mantietawer6 those of one' hora
pare 'of, thapareatwax. Thelight of the to command  His features Werewhandsome,
lampsand tapertsfell on a taamltous assem- but stronglymarkeol; 1ltenbishbught &amp;ad
-bly ofams of allages, and to: judge adcorr- nection'wreisdieted byhabreed,aassy
ding to their dress,,of all stations .::  .foreheadrand  hiameyedelmutend jiseud
..Qla* 4t,,astern, aide, of this aparitment seemed to gleami, with-,a papetnaturaloa
fstodg withiA t Niihe$oeia.Fark-. eedar weed holy light  The eyeslooked bto6aSiI they
glittering with oroamerts of silver, gold and could pierce yodr,heartaid penetre -fyout'
pepl The door's-were open and showed a sodl with their fAeryglances, ibut urther
row of parchment scrolls, enveloped in vel- seemed to read easily and withoutsiebFrt
vet, fringed and.- laced with gold. To the your 3 wholeeltaracter at -first sight.. JHe
beautifully carved woodion which the parch- wore, contrary to the fashion of the age, his
uesssereirolled, *ere fastened, crowns df black hair combed back and falling straight
-goldiand 'jewels. .-, -doWn behind the eari vA dress -of black
.N*sta aecrS Sywagogue.             : silk audlarge white collar, withha ,eivy
*dhp.prayers .had been finished,-and ,a gold ohain sustaining thesword, edited wdHl
scroll wastaken from the ark,,that the law to the serious character of his.face. 'It was
might bread. :'The wdrds were writtenon Don-Lionel, Dian, whom ithe, Israelites had
snow white parchment, lined, throughoutt styled "Prince of Israel."
withered silk.-Thevoice ofthe' reader soun- r -Witll extraordinary man walked slowly
dadmekodioubly; through' the,' apartment. through the crowd that pressed around,
To.. thib-nueeeededa fervid andelhquent-ex- derotionhlly :kissing the hemi of his tunic,
position ef-i biblical text, and the . service and seated himself in a throne-like chair',
was- concluded,! by earnest prayers and on-a phtform in the middle of 'the -room.
hymns.   .      ..'- .     '    '    ' Iminegiately all became. siLnt  ' Praised
Therakass then :removed' to :a secret be the Goddof' IaaeVlhebegd in;a voice
receptacle&amp;an idtetidenses'of the sacred of orgsn-likes sound, "for ch haa permitted
eharaeter, of the apartment carefully 're- us to meeVagain in safety." ,'For a moment
moved,       .    :' 6         .     " his voice :ceased, aid then again rung
The change whick thentook place in the forth: '- ' - I      ' -  ! a ; III .'i
expressiot,manner'and department, of all  "Have our messengers to the North re-
present would .hatestrueka-beholder with turned?"
.surprise. iThe- intense -earnestness ande.de-  Hernando and Enrique da Costastepped
Votion ofheartfelt prayder,which had, dwell- from the crowd, and.dropped on 'onecknee
d -op the onatensncss ofithe secret-Israe1- .before Don Lionel's: throne. 'He 'raised
ite, had ,given way13'la " expression of them kinaly-and said,:  -
alesityand"-apeetalio.- ,:The;humble;,  'iYohr drrand -haa' ben, successful, I
beseeching 'manner -of the believing :sup- know,.-Give methe etnperor'sltter."
plicanttothe throne, ofr grie, had been .,Don-. Enrique ; presented the gold', en-
superseded by a graceful and'highborneassb. veloped epistlepto:theprinceI,  I
Jigt the quiet, respctful.dbportment of men  "The priest is dead ?" inquired Don Lie-
engagedeia divine service was .,changed for nel. .  ' '  .     m
a clamorousy impatient bustle,.' '.     ; Hernandosigned-to atertitor, who:raising
In short'the meeting for prayer was.over, a piece of'silk brocade from i s inalL open
a4the conclave tO :eonseland decide. on basket he heldidisclosed thei headofFirma
oa~ters eonoerAiug: the -political and serial Fida.' A' half' stifed shout of joy arose.
,Ws being ofithesecretIsrelites of Portugal Blessings were pronounced on the 'head- of
.had begt. :I . .                      the brothers, who had executed, and on the
From the darkest, most obscure corner, of prince who had originated the design  In-
tho ynagogira now stepped forward a man deed the joy, of the Israelites, at.theirrb.
4o AUlt stte ad dignified' aspec .His lease wduld-hale becotneiextraagant,'had

nob respect for Don' Lionel somewhat re-
strin~dli The wealthy noblesthretheif
purses into the hands of the mechanics;
the merchants not to be outdone filled the
charity box *ith-costly rings and brooches.
AndO general air of' joy 'and 'happiness
foiatiedioer the assembled-crowd.'
The 'tdice- of Don Lionel huihed' this
store of joy.
'"Will 'Doh Hernando gratify'our -loyal,
sd   thi and relate the manner in which
ouplan was executed ?"    II'
"Willingly," replied the young min,-and
iuazmodestdoie 'ielated the adventures,
with which der' *saders are already ac-e
quainted.
When he had finished, his audience, with
i   e  bhara'eteristio enthusiasar of their
nation suirotunded him, and gave'v4tt to their
sfififabtions id admiration in'll- possible
ways:' D6n-Lionel arose, and taking' a
golden colla  with a star of diamonds' at.
tached to it, from a pouch at his sid', thriw
it atound'Herastido's'houlders. "Thanks,'
hlglhess, thaiksl"1 hurmnied the' happy
jedgg hallemff. ' - - :"
'D'Dn t"ionel motioned  Enrique 4 6;ap
proath,- 'antd'ffeciontelythrew  his ras
arbOfhd hisnecik. Agai nla was'quiet. 16n,
Lionel had risen 'to speak. With w*tadeffl
eloquence he addressed that asseAbly. 'He
conjured up the images of their 'fathers,
woke the old 'Hebrew enthuiasm with
buring- words, and turning to the present,
drew a picture of'their dangers fria the
serpent of priesthood, pointed to their posi-
tion with the sword above and an abyss
beneath them-"and with eagle Pinioio, als it
were, soared aloft and spoke of- the newly
discovered islands and countries across the
broad Atlantic, as lands where' the nation--
ality of Judah might be reconstructed. D6n
Lionel'niiaed a lofty superstition with his
glo&amp;ioud enthusiasm, 'high daring and beld'
projtets.- He -spoke' f4dreams'that had l-l
strhcted ,him, and' of ;angel viitois.-He
spoke of his proud -mission,' and'of their
rights'as a nation. ' He tdubhed every noble
chord in the -hearts before him, and ,they-
vibrited to 'his hand. Fully shed thle
muguiOd"f old recolletti6ns, of bright dreams,

of noble rights and of patriotic feelings
through theirsouils. Their peedliar position
as the remnants of a sacred nation,-meeting
in secret to pray to God, and to pay homage
to their own prince, their joy at the recent
escape from the Inquisition, their enthsi-
astic nature; all,- all gave fell effect to thi
fire of.Don-Lionel's speech. -Almost ecld-
to frenzy, they litened with eager eyes'6d
convultive hands.             '':"    . '
"Let bur people 'act as. one. inan," 'en-
elaimedthe 'speaker, "aidthrbughithrhloh.
tile ranks of Eurdpean nation ie will cdive
a way and with the blood-red sWord,1iit oft
a kingdom for'Israel. The stai on 'bnh-
ner shall shine fAriboiv0the lions of-Spain,
and the lilies of France. Look to the East,
oh my people, - and behold eui king. All
the  fair igle's, Of the Mediterianean tre
under his sway. All th:prouad landeonthe
coast -obey his'seeptre.- The'day will ehe,
when his and our'friend,' thw Sultan, will
put a royal crovda upon his' bvd6W  and then
Israel will again 'be 'a Aati.,' 'Under the
vines of'Oypeus ihd the'pahnsdfiNaars the
orange t and;fig'dMug6l'sll'befatotben.
On the silter 'Shore of the prdud sea we will
not sigh for the Tagus. There will be'our
home-! But when the't iiiOsodhdsiAnd'
tie star gleams hold nob', bodk,-nobls and
merchants, mechanics' ind artists, all'a
let us gather' around' tht- rOyal thionue "'
Israel! And till thib tine corie *W nistat
struggle with the priests, struggle 'with the
people, straggle with the king for life. On
then in the bold race."  '
It is impossible to describe the erhotions
this speech awakened, well suited as- its
tenor wasIto'the "Aellngs,- opinions,' hopes
and position of the audietice. Don Lionel,
in' alludidg to the Jewish king, designated
the Duke'of Naros, great Vizier of'the uill
thn. ':He wa 6lookedugn bfy'his brethien
ik faithmSthche iedeemer.: 'And it as ofb
of his, lighty-plans, 'topopulate thegotein-
ments presented to hin by the"Snlhum"*ith
Israelites, andithos 'at6tpt 't' isofgaiize
the nation.
Shortly after, the meeting wee aj6urned,
and' the ecret Israelited"silmitly dispeised

OE, PLOTs AND COUNTERPLOTS.


24                     . Tu     FATAL SEcRET,
Don.Tosel Pian mounted a horse, and gal- along, the wall of-the house,,t* thetarden..
Iqped, through the .street of Olives. out into In marble and gildedfpote bloomedtndian,
thq woods.   .        flowerse and creepera that hung garland ot
It arouses proud emotions in. the heart of foliage on the light canisters, and the soulp
an, sraelite, when, at the present day, he ture ornamented wall. Where the balcony
read of, ages when, though persecuted and opened upon the stairs, amar-blef figure of
tore, to- small fragments, his nation preser. Diana the huntressistood, covered willvdow
ved a high and glorious religious and politi, ere., Small blue forget-me-note and velv4tty
est existene separate from the nations. they violets concealed her feet, and a bush of
lived among; when they, apparent Ohris- purple roses-clung to the body of the:sutue
tins and Portuguese,.adored thefrGed,! de- with a hundred flowery brba .,e. By tli
votedly. and  ~grdsd the descendant. 'of. fgure, and leaning over the banister of. the,
theig kings with. loyal .ond patriotic love;: stirsstood a lady.          ;
nay, when - under the lash:of' persecution  It was 'Donna Rosa Bananda, the yosUg
they planned the reonstructionof their re- lady whom-Hernando -an4 liirique.da Cos
ligienwationality and liberty.         had liberated from the rocky prison in. 'the,
bandit's cave,       .l,
C HA PT E R V I.                Shn waNa beauty in thedland of beautiful,
. oY E I N T H E a T A R.LS ' I  '. .. wQme.- Herfeatures werespnill; leroom-
Thousands of slver flaming planets blossom- plexion pqre and pale; ands hqr hair veay
ed on the deep, dark sky. There was no very dprk, Her eyes'were large an4 black;,
moon,. but the. pure white starlight, hung her figure, of rich shape,.and- her, a vveuenta
over the palopeps hills and woods of Below, and manners fell of sweetesas pnd gqce.-
like amnantle of holiness. The sea breeze as She was robed in a wide mantle of: islkwhite.
it swept over the waters, gathered diamond- Indian, mpslin, here and therp tied wfit
like prtiese ofspray, andihung them upon silver dord. The sleeves hupg to the groud
the dark treee,.that bent their wreathed tops and lpft the lady's arms bare. -Her ,lAsPk
to ;eceive -its kispqs. The .rustle of-the air, eurl, as 'from beneath A net of silk and spd.
the . dreapy fpranqe of the flowers, the pearls, they rolled over her shoulders, cpu-.
whisper 'of the rivertAnd the dim sweeping trasted, finely- -with the p re -9olor of the:
ouMno of thehills,ahlcombinedto make the muslin robe.
sqepneround Belemnqndthe adjoining'sea.  Athr side-stood Enrig e4  Costa.
-thrdd                                   ;e .ots
coap the. most enchanting on earth. .'And He was handsome and exceedingly well
aboye all this, as it were, towered the beau- formed. An expression of great sweetness;
tepqs queen of night, culling starry flowers and gentleness dwelled on his features, and,
from the gardens of paradise and scattering was further enhanced by the long silky ring.
them in gorgeous profusion' over her azure lets of soft brown color, which hung to his
robe.   .'. .If     Ishoulders.: His eyes were darkbrown and
A solitary yellow light, burnedis the win- dove like in their expression.  f
dow of a noble mansion.  .                A  dress of black velvet heightened the
The rays of the moon and stars are so clear effect of his delicate, almost feminine,,con-
and softithat the garish flashof any other plexion. He wore it very low in the neck,
lighseems to castan unchaste stain on their and the undercoat was garnishe4 with 'a
pure radiance. Unless the nightisdark and costly lace collar, very much starched. The
stornyior we know that loved ones are as- velvet tunie was confined to the waist by a
sembled around its flame, theglpw.of a light, scarf striped with purple and, gold. E-
from a window, mars the beauty of nature to rique held his plumed hat in his hand...
the poet's eye.                           "Sweet lady,"- he began, in his soft gentle
The window opened from the rear of the voice, while his lips trembled with suppres-
mansion, on a balcony. A. smali staircase sediemotiops, "I love you. Jt can -not~ be;a
descended. frqm one end of, tis balcony, .secret, for my manner has betrayed what it

On, PLOT$ AND
was impossible to conceal. I asked 6for this
tuleMAidWb&amp;% au1,dturn te keer ydre hiurs
fla    eilvdi      t  e."ea : iur
s  s          Sei-tdnly great assuraaeein
ayoigthu1  4% 1 lvlut Enrigue wasso'pt
saae  fat hib.atioas, andsodieeo
and oqig'n              ad so'diiedt o
t0e prppe,in all'is mepuithithe overleap-
eieletraagInt cstoks of that age, and
the rooted, roundabout way of lovers, and
d~oi i-i his passion in quite a sensible man.
nor. The lady, however, used'to "hear war-
mer erpreissions than these, from even the
coldest of her'adinlrers, was,- stung to the
Uitik, an'slowly raising her head'with a
proud'afid disdainful air replied,'in a chil-
hipg voice:
"I fear, ou have come on a bootless er.
rand, Don  nrique,yet I doubt not, but'what
yowll non console vourse1(ffor ill success.
But sext time presume not omA'chon the
momentary preference of'a lady, and cal it
love."      .       -.
Enrique looked at Rosa, doubtingly. His
hand grasped the rose-entwined Arm of Di-
sana'sstatue, heedless of the.thorns;. hitrhead
dropped on his breast, and tho hat he hel4
fel to the foor. This lasted but one mo-,
meat,.and his confidence had rtWrned -
His clear, sweet eyes were again raised to
her fice, which remained proud and cold.
"Ia not plead the heart's suit, with the
bright and hollow language of a glittering
edurt. My lovewarm and true I offer. You
will not reject it," said he.
' I an- not give, for a oold, calm emotion,j
without romance, without ardor, the feiy
and entire affeedon, whieh I am cpable of,"i
said Donit Ros, candidly. I41 is late,Don
Enrique," she added, and wrapped her robe
closer around her heaving bosout. '  *'.
"Ya could have made us both happy, and
have nade us miserable," sighed Don En-
'que; and  ith a low bow-took up his hat
a4d descendedthe stairs to the garden.
DonnaRosa stood irresolute, oiie moment,
The recollection of bet release, sOept 'ver
tet mind; her heat loved Enrique, M6t she
;vas eid at 'his dalm* aiturance.: Then,
with the inipetudiiy'df a' Southerilady,
46e'b tend down the atair, ranafter Eni,
~~4-

COUNTERPLO-T.                       25
q,       threw herself into his arms.  ind
*smbling -ththaad happiaesssh       ay
on his breast. Her beautiful head resteden
'his shoulder, nd her-whitegIeais'g, ams
wered thpevon around, bas, neav unrique,
surprised and wild withjoy, agin and again
strAined' th 'beauiffl -fora,4obkjebosom-
AndI ther'orange treesetrweddowetheir
fragrant, blossoms upon the lotere,,n4 dthe
night 'breeze enveloped them inclouds of
perfume, and the twinkling stars hung .a
veil of silver light over them.  ,  '.
',The love which filled their hearts with
happiness, was only the product of 4,fqw
days of friendly intercourse, Ittis true. .  t
in the bright south where earth, aijsead
heaven are teeming with * soft voluptuous
beauty, where the fiery rays of the sun  aU
brighter flowers from the bosom of earth,
and richer'e.notions from th9 beartsoP9men,
and, where-the passions, those weeds -to the
heirt, often splendid but useless are timely
and extravagantly'developed, it, is-common
toafnd'thiasudden falling inlovCo- In thoS
Seatkemelimes, the morning leapssuddenly
upon 'earth, and all- is bright; spring. do.
sends suddenly :from _ heaven and all is
grten; and love suddenly enters the heart
and all is fte., -Our lovers surrendered
themselves to the charm of their affection;
and, because 'it was a heaven to them, it*
seemed immnrtal.' Enrique knew his reli-
gion, as an Israelite, raised a; barrier high as
heaven, betwedahim and Rosa. Also, Rosa
knew, that hermother had destined her,for
another.. But' those obstacles, by .their
very opposition, made their love romantic,
and ,gave' it Additional charm. Not being
powerful enough to -strangle a, love, which
was. born giant, tbey only goaded'it to
higher action by their obstructions. 1Our
lovers wdre.yetAinthe pure heaven of love,
all poetry, romance, and refined, chaste af.
fectionofthe togl,tal surrounded,'too, by
vague, uncertain, unlimited .ad obscure
inistsawhichiioweer(they sought-,not to
peifettate. Thy .were yet far from the
lowerfiisthiausthatJeadsfrom the heaven
of-love toearth;, far from that state of affeeo
tion, where the pure, elevated and chastely
happy' emotions df the $oal's love mingle


OR, PLoTS AND

"

wthete we rngolden streamsofixhortul m When. Rosa hdp~r$ig          e
es               long before she cou4slpep., rh5 B i
Our lovers were young.  The heart, a Vir- in..WgB Enrique's for  was Iroat rqini-
gin soil, full of strengthfull of luxuriance. neqt, appeared to herenamorpq eyeand
-tife's lightning .had adt sehrred ,it; life's her heart beat quick with joy whennere.
-disapyintraents had not chilled it life's viewedLagaiand agaim theeventsoNh e,  n-
storzaA hid iot blighted it. -Fresh and full, ing.. We will leave ,her' to thoseoen
ft resivedlove's sunshine, and run riot, yet dreams which love brings to the s ee of
only produced beauty, aff'etion add hlppi- youth, and take note of another isterview of
ness.'.                    ,    :      loversethat took place the same ng.
While we are young, it seems as if we   The summer pavilion of the roypace
bould never die. And, pushed with our own stood in the midst pf a chestnut ;ro-e,.ep-
'seeming imsiortality, andall the divine'feel-; arated,, from the, palace by long stnpa of
ags of youth, how' dektidessare-the heart park, terraces and gardens.  t was a man-
and its creations in oue eyes!  -       sion of considerable size, and construetIed
The world's history tells us of the youth in the light and fantastic Moorish style, here
and love -of Earth. How it adorned-itself and there interepersed within the- Gothic. A
with beauty, and woke the melodies, and verandah surrounded, iNwih eliglt 0ilars
'shapes of the classio- agej and -peopler and curiously carve ornaients that  ed
its woods 'and "fountains -with fornis'of out into gilded 'arabesques, whko the' yilars
sweet divinIties. How- its youthful heart sustained the roof  Lawns and beds 'of
created patriots, 'philoso'hersgoratortand flowers, with but few trees, lay immediately
heroes, and -its creationaenhebane ihnniortal.' aroundd the pdvillion, while" here and: there
How in its youthful 'gueuosity' if smAde kt6odtall aablesases filled with beautiful
great and good 'mini whose' actions are foreign plants, like white sentinels, waving
deathless. Thise, were .the prodhets ,of their green digs., In front,on -each 'side of
earth't youth; and when it was -thus,, beau- the smboih law'n, was a fountain, that riied
tiful, noble and good, golden heaVen,brighlt its einow'white pillair of water, to height
-with 'glorious :gods, - clasped it ,;to its almost equal with the'chestnuts; aid fell in
glowing bosom, andearth'loved! .       sparkling clouds baek into its marble bain.
'the memory of this gblden'age hanpstill Where the chestnut-grove touchedite most
like a rosy cloud above the  forld. And its obscure corner of the pavilion,ian thcasha-
melodies and' shapes, ind fanciesstart into dow ef the-trees, stood a man in the dress
life and reality, whenever youthful heart of a page.
contemplatesthem.- It lives againand again It was Fidaro, the gipsy, whonm we found
in the youth' of menm  And as the&amp;bright in the first chapter,relating to his tribe, Don.
beams of that long past dge still east gold- na Glori's love, wedding and. elqpon:egt.
'sO glow over literature,-sienee and-ar so !.At the request of MasSor,: Pounn  Oloria
will .the memory'of first love gild after-life. asked jthj ?d duke of Asambuja, hedid
When we have drained the erystaleup, we not know her, totake Fidaro intojis service.
still fnd at the bottom a reflection sf its !h -noble : courtier could not ,g"f se the
favorite's request. His son Don Diegg  had,
joy"-
Rosa now disengaged h6rselfrhom En. at th  instance of Gloria, been made gover-
rique's arms.                         . nopof Capasp, apd so sent, away ro  gourt,
"Good hight, my love," he-whispered. befoya he .had .seen the Cgn jteas djVogn,
"Will you be'at the Cintessdi Voga's, the king'aistress.
to-morrow, my dove?" Inquired Eariqub.   Fidagp-was in love, and theo    of his
"Ys, love; -my other willntroduddem," tender passion was th9 sweet Iaria Snoz,
was the reply."     '     o           edhamberjnaid toshop'qeDlgy    9   tess
"FareWelli then, till to-ndrrow ever' and, di Voga, 'hishagl draw  ta    and
with another embrace the lovers parted.  indolent gipsy from his bd, an  now  e

stood attired in all the finery his wardrobe
cofild'aftistrj with a Moorish gaititr in'arni,
b4  tie'Wld  do4  -ofhiilady-love. Hewasa
tallndelui't fell6wwith sifne black eye,and
a musical voice. Fidaro was proud of his
appearance and singing, and, therefore,
placing himself in a gracefdlatttitude, where
the starlight would enable Maria to see him
at onee, tebegan to play a *ild, simple air,
ac8oinpan6ing'it with' erudelove'song.
.  The stars loved the'resx;
Tliy kim them at night;
. timthvally
The window was hastily thrown open and
MriWsFYlnnoz appeared -in her white night
dress shaking her arms at Fidaro.' ,
'Wrech," she whispered in: a low, his-
siig, iiby voice, 'dofott wish t wake my
aunti?'The serenader stoppedvuddenly.
"Phtdon, 'eautiful Maria,- pardon!" he
cried. "I knew not that the old dragon was
near you..-
"'For shame, Fidaro 1hut we areeven-dow
too lod;-can you not'mianageto come near-.
edF". inquired the easily' appeased maiden.
"Surely, my wild -rose'" and the gipsy,
witi easy alacrity clim  the-veiresto bee,
and setting astride of a long liant branch
swengit-backward and forward until itlan-
ded him safely on the window ledge.
'Queen of Heaven! I meant not 'that you
lioild 'enter the rooni,eried the damsel,as
the bold lover, einbraced her, and kissed her
slightly pouting mouth.
"It is the will of Heaven, let us be con.
tent!" was Fidaro's assured reply.' -
Let me alone, will you I" and the damsel
tore away frm his arm.. "Sit on the outer
window ledge, and -if you allow-yourself any
imptulenee;1, hall push you down."
'Ihe gipsy made aT grimace and obeyed.
a' the' king 'been "here to day I" in
quired'Fidiro.
""Certainly; his maj ety comes every day.
And why should he nt, 'seeing that he
loes mnylady so much ?"
""Aye,' and he brings, his suite along-too.
i'thewibt a young jsekanapes page of the
count Almaveda, who looks at you too of-
A1d I looat hinitoo.

COUNTERPI OTs.                      27
"I thought "a much. Women are the
most deceitful creatures on earth, Why do
you look at him ?"
"I am  not your wife yet," cried  aria,
"that you have the right to ask me. You
are a wretch
"Tush," said the gipsy; "if he makes any
advances to you, my steel shall make A4-
vances to him.. And now child, you must do
ne a favor."
"I dont see why I should do ,anything to
please you. You vex me constantly," sai4
Maria.
"No, I don't, I love you and that pleases
my dear litte Maria. Now, here is 'asiaall
casket, heavy and securely looked, whioh
you must bear to your mistress.- Say it
eomnes from Maisor."
"But, why do you not give it to her your-
self?"
"True; and I should like to see hertoo,
and remind her of old times," said Fidaro,
musingly.
"Old times? Didyou know the Countess
before she bame here? Oh, tell- me some-
thing about herI" exelaimedMaria
"Silence, girl! your nos., is not enough
pointed,-nor are your eyes sharp enough, to
pry into mysteries of higher importance than
a love intrigue. Wait till you areas old as
your dragon aunt, and then root up secrets."
"You are a brute! I have vowed never to
get as old and ugly as she is," said Maria.
"That's sensible. [.think Fil bear this
casket myself to the Countess; wheh had I
best conic?
"About vesper chimes. Come to the small
door below this window,.andI'll procure you
audience," replied Maria. "You will then,
also, have occasion to-see, how many fair
nobles play the gallant to my poor self."
"Will 1? there may be broken heads
then I but I warrant me, your aunt takes
good careofyou all day I" and Fidarolaugh-
ed loudly:
Hush, for the.sweet virn's sake I" en-
treated the maiden. "She sleeps in the next
apartment "
"The fiery dragon I" cntinued .the lover.
"She is notso very bad, after all I"
"She is the sourestaegliest mosipoisonous


28                       Tan    FATAL     SonRST,
monstuethat ever kept watch over a rich  Wheos M'Wais    the wasi olewS    e WW
treasury "               torodher room, closed widow cmd,49MM,
"Ste ,-stop I'you know she has been as a went to bed, to enjoy sweet sleep and happy,
mhtlier to me," whispered Maria. "But Fi* dreams.
daro, you-
dThedoorof the room opened and Marga- CU A.P T E.R           V IIs,
riti-Flunos entered. She had heard a whisk.   An   saaXWT AND a1s coaNTXNT.
poring1and-now eame to her niece's room It was the dey after the events had taken
to ascertain the cause.                place, whieh we described in thQ; last ebap
41oly Mother,and ye ten thousand angelsI ter. At the appointed time, as the bells of
What ar you doing here V' and with this, the royal chapel were ringing for vespers,
she shot a ross the room, and seized Fidaro Fidaro knocked at the small door beneath
*ithiboth ands.                       Maria's window..
Haitried to escape from her grasp, but in  The maiden opened the door,and bdober
vaind "Maria fled, from the room. Fidaro lover enter.
took a quick resolve.                     A few moments after, Fidaro stoodifrthe
"Do not be angry, beautiful maiden," be- presence of Donna.GloriA, Countess di Voga
gan Fidaro in softfattering tones, "It was  "Wait in the-next -partment qy child,.
my misfortune to behold you to day in'the untilI call," said Gloia to the chamber-
train of the Countess Solani. I love you maid.
madly, hnd trying to ,enter your chamber,  Maria retired.
came to the wrong one."                  "You are of the Duke di Asambuja'sliopse.
A dash of water cauld not extinguish a hold now?" inquired the lady Qf.Fidar.
fire quicker than these enamored words ap-  "I am, your excellency; thanks to your
peased Margarita's anger. She saw by the kindness," returned the page.
faint light, that the gallant was young and "And Massor has acquainted you with
handsome, and a doubt about the power of your duties ?"
her own charms never entered the venera-  "The chief has givenme some directions."
ble virgin's head.                        "May you repeat them to me?"
"But what presumption, to enter my bed "I may;. he directed me to gain thecon&amp;-
rom I" she whispered; her voice modified deuce of the duke and his son, to watchAoir
to a girlish treble,                    proceedings closely, and to bringhim- acau.
"My excuse is my too great love I how rate report of everything passing in the du.
could I resist your charms,,fair Donna ?" cal palace."
said Fidaro.                              "Is this all ?"
"Considering that you are in love, I will  "He also introduced me to his royal high.
pardon your imprudence. Butit is chilly here nes,the Prior of Castro,* as a At messenger
come, my beloved to the bosom of your Mar- between him and the duke.".. . .
garita I" and she opened her arms wide.   "Enough;do you bear any message for me
No sooner was Fidaro free from her grasp, now?" inquired Donna Gloria.   .
than he dropped lightly tothe ground, and  "I do," replied Fidaro. ,"The chief bade
to, the astonishment -of the love-stricken me give this casket to you with the: request
spinster -made off at full speed. Then, to keep it safely for him;" and he presented
with the brightness of lightning, flashed his the casket to the Countess.
cunning deception upon her mind, and for-  It was a casket of brightly polished steel,
cing down her mortified and bitter feelings, inlaid with gold, and richly enamelled with
she calmly considered, whether it would be the arms of Beja. On the lid glittered the
better, to cry, "thievee-murder, Are," or to
retreat quietly., Adopting the latter plan,  *The Prior of Castro was the natural sop of
the disappointed virgin returned crestfallen Emanuel, and engage# in almost constant
to her chamber.                        intrigues against his brother Juan Ill.

On, PLoTs AND COUNTTER'LOTX.                              29
a esof'"Nmanuelandaria," surmounted of the casket. The side were s&amp;thiek
Abii)4ual, rown.                   th16. teowas oulg room fafnfofrapisse*t
eder will readily understaid the parchnin      6 wc i we alli itfntdd.-.
surprise and interest, with whicfh Gleriare- Te'wgeie coveted with wiitIfn in aPW
ecived this .asliet, when he knows that terious cipher.'
Emanuel theGreat,the father of Juanbefore "Cyion read this, page ?" ngdirad'the
he #qceeded to the crown, bore the title of lady.
"Doe di Beja."  He was of a side branch  "I can not Donna!" replied Fidard, still
of tho royal family, and was only raised to gazing at Gloria with burning eyes.
the succession, by the sudden and unexpec  "Where did you get the casket"
ted death of the prince royal, the son of Ju-  "At the command ofMasor, I enteredthe
Aessond.,bed chamber tof he Priot de'Ca0tr6,ttadi
Donna Gloria, her face animated and her from the secret diset behind his Co'ub took
eyes hiring, examined hastily the casket thiscaskeet. A'te the chief had-4d: the-
It hdno lock, nor exhibited any crevice to papers, he commanded me to leave it in your
indicate the point where it could be opened. keeping."
She, therefore correctly conjectured thit it  "I Will keep it wtll. NowPi'ldaro, watch
opened by a spring.                    the duke and his s6n well; wAtc1 also your
"Do you know how to open this ?" she chief, and bring me true report of all tllir
inquired, hastily.                     intents, purposes and actions. IVIi give
"The chief gave me no directions concern- orders that you be adibltted.atas tihtes.
ig it;' replied the gipsy, lith his eyes on Go now 1" and the 1ad hald-out Apu.'se of
the door.                              gold to the page.
But I command you to open itI" repeated  Fidaro kissed her hand 'witlheager lips,
Donna Gloria, vehemently; for, from . his but drpped the purse oh  feldr.
mannershe guessed that he knew how:       "I accepf not goId" f6r itvin  ou," he
"Your excellency will pardon me; bt-.." said.                      Yo
"No buts! open it,or--" Gloria ceased, .loria took a purple rose frciher girdle,
suddenly, and, with   a  powerful sort, and dropped it,as she turntdaid,:wIth the
changed her expression, manners and voice, casket in her had,ehtered'he neat
"Goo4 page, you knew me before this," meant.
she said blandly, sweetly, and approached so  The page picked up he flower andbid'it
near, that her damask robes, almost touched in his bosom. As he Went out Maria met
him, "you will certainly not refuse me this him. His eye softened for a moment, but
slight request. You know it is ungallant he pasted her quickly, saying:
for gentlemen to refuse anything to a lady."  "I must hurry away, my dear, do, not de.
The bewildered page wavered,         tainme."
"But the chief has forbidden me !"     "Fidaro, I wish to tell you somethingg" she
"You will not refuse, page !" and the cried, but ie page passed on.
proud Countess di Yoga laid her hand on  That night the gentle girl wept herself to
the page's arm.                        sieep.
l'idaro, gaied at the gloriously beautiful ,Tnna Giloiia, as soon, as she found Fidaro
lady, who, with her brilliant eyes, looked at gone, sigh- "ipeer boyl how sanguinei Is
ham entreatingly. His cheekaglowed, iis b- his youthful heart I  ka  been wrong'in
som heaved, and a flash of fire seemed to thus aliurliag him. But! must free myself
iave entered the heart of the young man.- fromothis Massr, inse power hangs, like
Ile knelt down, and devotedly kissed the invisible fetters around: me!I! must, alto,
beautiful hand of Gloria.               have Don Diego inn grasat in my p6wer
"dieneforth, I obey  only your com- alone, either to crsh ofipafda  im. Mae-
mands!" he oried, anu  with a sliglit move- ior says, wait dnth * hediaw thobet
mont of his hand, touched a concealed spring around hiin t 'm l he is iostbeyoad re.


30

Tea FATA

depion! 'Mi thepdestroy him  opeI
wheuthieoasso w,   Jp mternoUqpow,
or, has used me as the tool to accomplish
sqe;wiqkeddesigu, he may desert and 4es-
troy me also? No, no! I have set a spy up-
on his"9gions, and the gipsy-chief may over-
shoot his mark."
"As for-this casket," she continued, open-
ipg it an4 gasing again at,the cipher covered
doeoment9 I shall keep. it. it4o could
decipherAbsl,,;L wonder ?", and she sat down
rosingi'er head on the gilded back of the
A few moments might have elapsed when
Ilonna Gloria.rope quickly,, and sounded the
rattle of-steel that lay on the velvet covered
table.' -
A page in gorgeous very appeared
"Go to the privTate secretary.of his majes-
ty, an rgesh# to attendme to-por
row at eleven."
The page bowed.
"And boy! Inoneneedknow your errand "
"IAshall be careful to obeyI" and the page
left the room.
Meanwhile, another scene took place In
the lower apartmentsof the pavihon. As
Fidaro, all abstracted, and full of tfhe.golden
visions that had appeared to his eyes, walk-
ed carelessly throu the hall .of the psvil-
ion, be was met bythe waiting woman of the
Countess di Solani, whose guest Donna Glo-
ria still was, until another, more splendid
palace could be prepared foprher reception.
Dame Magarita Flunos, waiting woman to
her excellency, had  passed the nigiit,
musing on false lovers and horrid adeelvers.
During the   day  she had nursed '..ir
wrath, and waited a suitable opportunity to
discharge her, ire. Maria, who well k6ew
ier aunt's temper, had maageto elude the
ancient maiden ; i rgarita was, therfore,
stillbrimfull of bohng anger,wh'en she be-
held the Say deceiver, h6 had so betrayed
her withered heart
Her eyes dilated; her gray hair bristled;
hprflatosomeaved; her dr-y l1 s opened;
and her yeo  tee4 andagile tongue ti-em-
bled likedhe woodheforea storm.

Monster inhuma iponeter I" she scream-
1, and lropp     massathnismwsorIdese 6 ld'
to ,astcq on his head w it'bo hil
s    for this, that I yie1dhi my virgin
h ort to your entreaties f That y sould
betray my loveand' desert me !',( ,hof1
virgin of liemposto,look down on a wek
unprotected female;" have pity on a loing
and deserted woman! Serpent, crocodile,
base betrayer, look at me, whom you have
vowed to love, and repent.in time I"
A crowd of servants had'gthere1daround
the valiant Margarita ani her ietim, 'and
were enjoying the scene with 6minne 'mirth.
"Get him to marry you, dame I" exclaimed'
one.
"Run away with him t suggested andth-
er.
"Tear him to pieces" counselled an min-'
ferior chambermaid.
The mortified Fidaro stood  nunii6vable,
securely fettered by the bony hands of dame
Iargarita. The golden vision lof Donia
Gloria, the sweet face of )14ria, all Vdishe
-  ..                ,  ; "
before this gray haired' reality.
"Well, deceiver,' fals betrayer, spe
cried the dame.
As she shook him, Donna Gloria's' flower
fellfroi his bosom.
Aroused to consciousness by'ths c'ircum-
stance, inspired by love, ani imiid despair,
he planted a kick i the venerable iaiden'
abdomen; with a scream of agony, she dou-
bled up.
Snatching his flbwsr from the doorFidar''
hurried away..
CIt A P T ER   VIII
T A  U n NaT.ITn AI N M nNT A T  T IMB5
SUMX   E'R n PAYV I L1O-     ,
The summer 'pavhon blazed wih light.--
Througl te heavy curtains, the bnigi t kays
streamed out on the green lawti, the 'ar-
ble vases anid dark trees. Sounds et'nmusic
and song, mingled with merry laughter, nid
gay voices floated on the night air. '4o one
looking from afar upon the royaigardes
and parks, the pavilion must have'seemed a
fery gem in the dark seeing of the surroun-
ding grave, and the sweet musie vibrated on
his ear, like the song of merry fairies.

I   s:

Oan, P'LJOTS iI V   -C O1U  tE RPFL oT S.              :1
in'            nfowuleg Ibdind bthrdlh tilathel'pate f aomo evaiuel
with goldenrligtighteWith 1     eind than the richest gems of Indianeecan,"e-
ingln inmarbles, moved hlthleriid thith. joined Dond'a'Gldrit who *stu afridnd of
t6like t  waves otf a sunset sa' a splendid Juan's m7isgt, lon Antoui.
assembly of nobles and couriers. 'Theglow-  "We must not acquaint thegood MAn With
ing dyes of the Xersian carpets and the ex- your high opinion let'hemfghiirng lant
quisite pictures, thatseemed magic windows, in hs old 'age," s aid J '
fr-m   which to look on the faires scenes of   o    no  i-    a
e . a- o  . .                 I culd ot preiv    im    heoroon'and
other lands; he gilded ornices and the        -.       .  ie him. .e
.!- 1   . 1 1.                     stars tare mvioble when' th SOusshinS."
euetan mirrors in frames of silver nlagree;                 t         uaie
velvet and breade eqrtains  nd the   "You are even mor echaumpingp an.usual,
-arbe-foutains in the Morish taste; the countessl' 'said Juan with smile of gra-
4  m  a sq  av  .i ratified vanity.
poh dress, waving plumes and sparkling
diamond   of ihe beautiful ladies and grace-  Your majesty'esanprobatidinakes-me so.
ful ,hevahies, that no#' moved i the gay Can you inform me sire," she inquired,,4who
danee, and  en conversed in glittering 'cir. this stately old lady and beauteous:girl are,
ees anknots; and the cloud of light, mnu. that now enter the saloon ?"
sie, andperfume that hung over all, com-  '"The old lady is Don*aBanaanda./ The
lpned to form a scene, whose gorgeousness maiden I donot know. Don.Astonio ' asked
no Persian poet ever imagined,"or Arabian Juan of his minister, who had now aeceed-
tale;telrlesceibsd. Nor wasthis assembly ed -i disehgagibh himself 'friths.knot of
one distinguished for nignificence in that laughing ladies; aid 'approiched -thd6 king.
age ofsplendor, when the wealth of the I. "Don Antonio, you; who atesudh a favorite
.4;es jay at the feet 9f(1 ortugal, and Euro. with the sei,,can perhaps nate the-young
pean taste combined with Asiatic luxury to beauty, now approaching with Donna Ba-
ereate wonders of extravagance.         nanda?"
Nominally, the Countess di .Solani gave  The lainister bowed.
J." thispntertainnent, but really DonnaGloria  "Your majestyispleasidtobe fifeetious.-
presided. Sp stood at the uper end of a The young lady'isitosa Bsnanda,the daugh.
loopop, conversing with the king  A plain ter of my fair friend, and the betrothed of
~ess of stig hla     I brecad, aud lace heigh- Miguel di Soussa."
stAed.fe pfect of ier noy white arms and    gneldio'.ssa, mused the king, "the
transparent complexion. A veil of black vi ant captain who served usso well at the
lace hung in the Spaipsh nsapner of tbe pre. coast of Congo ?"
sent day, fromnithe back, 9f her head to, the  e  ame, replied Don Ant6nio; "a
floor. Herv armp; neek!,andair were bla. nephew of hiseninenoe, the Cardinal Geor-
sing with diamonds. The, king was even gio."
-ordsensinore4 sha: usual. Ho attended   Donna Bananda approached; she was a
A470r*)dU1U~e411*A:  'U ', k .od   .
Gloiamir. allthe courtesy 9f an humble .middle aged lady, who had once been a
admirer.*beauty, and still preervedi well, the remains
1DonAntonio is quite uable eto disen- of that period. She was celebrated as one
tangle himself from  itis faith. captors," ire- of the-m4st sensible and wealthy ladies of the
marked Donna Gloria, looking toward the 'Portuguese eeudt. Her husband, a noble-
door of the saloon, where a diminutive old man of much influence 'had died, leaving
.mn,*ith intelligent faca and co man- to his wife an immense fortune and a beau-
"ding browo, was.in ain endeavoring to es- titul daughter.
cape from a crowd of merry ladies.        "Sire," she .adrssed he king with a
y"HIs bald pate reflects the light, like the deep teverenee', 40J hdv'e.reqiestlo prefer."
tadrfanb of an Idilan sea," laughed the king. "Donna Bananda has a right to ask favors
"YW" najesty's simile inappropriate in of us," i'plied the kig.
more than one way. Pearls'df wisdom are   "ItiN,- centiued tie lady, "that your

to


32                  .     T  i ;1Aia       Sa,L nCA.'t
aljestyppoiptttme to rqepive my jaugh- exhausted hipelfrin ppjo twes about the
ter aboart.'~                           causp qf the kipg's eotlo   "he
A66terit, be at Abe netW recep0p0, madam, Donna. Gloria soon retired toh ap -
by all means;" Ypljedi   .ape "Present ments. Meanwhile, in one of the windows
er Ua  " n.               .      that opened on asnmall balcony, conyerseda
Do1a         ,    had left her daugh- group of men with anxious faces:
ter .in charge wlth yome jemale'rienost a  -(ap anything be discovered?" inquired
little distaee, now. signed her to ap- a tall,lean, sallowfaced man. "I
r         ' theni presented  ionnRbsa to   you have the best opportunitfpo ascer-
the ting, E*ho-&amp; ght proper to nieke some tain, my lord dakeI" replied a stoutgente-
tamtihgremaMr.                          man, with dignified manners, a  a had-
The IN   tfedthen approached Gloria, and some, fpce. Iia dress was a.meley otte
Donna Bananda paid her respects toa the priest and the courtier. ForiVer lesag.
0o(ntese diVoga, with great:'stateliness.  nificea't tunic, he wore a cape 9f w iteolth,0
Gloria replied to her. with coldness; it and a goden cross suspended aftund his
seeded the -two ladies, were not the best neck by a broad ribbon.   i" crown Was
friends. shaved, but the rest of his curis 'rengtd in
IWhenuDohns.Bananda aind her daughter such a manner as to conceal almost the
bad passed-onth ministeridrew the king shaven part,
"If we are discovered,' rejoined the-duke,
Adilerf batarriVed from the z0rth of "I g6 but th---"
the Kigdong bringing important news," he 4 "Uush 1" Interrupted the other,' "1shI is
whiefered&amp;  ". foul deed has been perpe.- anotIher sumufns i
tratedthichomust be looked into,immediate.  A page in thegoyal livery, approadhddihe
two men, and after'reverently bowing to the
"What can you meaa ?" inquired Juan.  stout 6ne, he addressed the duke.'
"FirmaFida has been assasnsated I"     "His majesty requests the Duke di sam.
"Death of 46d4, It" eried the.king, in A buja's attendance at the council bovrd-"
voice of.thandet a datitosh;Aaming in.his  "I follow," yaO the reply, and the old
fegentleman hastened to attend.'
A perfect silence followed. The musie   "Now, St. Georg, guard 'my interest, if
ceased and #A-convemrationcame to a halt Juan has, discoveied'the ,)lotl" thought the
Every-oneheld his breath an11d looked at tie stout1gentleman,who was the Prior do Caw-
tro.
king.We hastbn to catch a few sentencesof the
"I have alr*sdsupmone4 themembers
of, the cotmait and, we wait but for your conversation i another quarter.
Hernando and Enrique wereamsn
majesty," said Don Antonio, in alow voice.  eNd
Theing composed hiMself.RosBanand                        I1.1I'       .
Calmly and slowly, but in a voice, the  Enrique, bright ad joyous, looked atRo-
sound of which was heavy with unalterable as; and Rosahappy,-gave bak his game of
love.
resolution, hesaid:                      Hernande wa enchanted atthe beauty of
"By ourroyal.crown, thisshall be punish- Rosa, whom he had net befbreiseen intcir.
ed ?" Then turningg to Gloria, he kissed.her eumstances that allowed him td contemplate
hand nd     d                           her loveline
"Matters oft    allus way    Our fair   Her beauty throw a beam of Are in his
friend must excuse scanty 'courtesy,"   insaable heart. Hisdarkeyes wereohain-
Gloria adde somes appropriate reply, and ed to her face.I
the kingifonlowed'by :theminister left the  "We are grateful, gentlemen, foriyour p.-
pavilion. :                -.lte, attention," said Donna, anan4. "t
Conversation wa resumed, with renewed think it will -soon.be time etq rs to our
-vigor'afterthier interuptiosi, andevery one home, Ros."          . - ,

Qa, PLOTS AND           I.UNTERPLOTS.         ,3
If you wish itmother, I am ready," re- Enrique," replied Hernando. "But I my.
pl od~losa~                           . self em deeply in love with a beauteous lady,
Oh, let, but Jthe Donna take one more in Lisbon, and, therefore, am pained by this
danoe ith me," entreated Hernando, of the order. Still the command of the prince, 'and
old lady.,                             our own safety, require us to obey."
'"Very well, if Rosa is not too tiredI",  The necessity of obedience was too evident
Enriqse answered..the inquiring look of for either to hesitate long.- After a fow-mo.
.his beloved, with an assenting glance from ments of consideration they summoned the
is igloriously bright blue eyes, for it was of messenger of Don Lionel, and inquired after
the first .importance to him, thatHernando the means of travel.
should be pleased with his choice..      "Two horses await your excellencies, be-
So the dark eyed, black haired youth led yond the park," said't)e servant.
the beautiful maiden to the saloon,where the  "Lead us to them, then," -said Hernando,
Musicians, stationed in a small gallery, and both brothers were about to follow him,
played, merry tunes.                   when he whispered:
Qur couple joined the dancers, while En.  "You have been watched; remain a mo-
rique, with Donna Bananda, remained in ment as you are, and I will secure he per-
the door of the saloon, looking on.    son; she must accompany us."
After the dance was finished, our brothers  He crept softly through the grass, and
escorted- the ladies to their carriages, and suddenly springing up before the listener,
were about to return to the saloons, when a who was.no other than dame Margarita Flu-
servant in dark-livery, gave a note to Her. noz, gagged and bound her.  .-
nando.                                    "We must take this female with us, or she
By the light of the torches, that flamed in will betray your flightI" whispered the ser-
the hands of the numerous servitors, now vant, and he dragged.Margarita Flunos with
crowding the lawn in front of the patilion,to him through the grove. The brothers follow.
attend'their masters home, Hernando rend ed. They soon found two horses browsing
the note:   s                           under the dark chestnut branches.
"Fly with your brother to castle Salouigra'  "Where is your horse ?" inquired Enrique
the bearer of this will conduct you, and find of the guide.
the means to travel fast. You may trust   "He will obey my call, senor," and in the
fully to him. Remain, as secret as possible, mariner of the gipsies he sounded a shrill
in that retreatuntil Igeyou furthernotice. whistle, which summoned an active and
My servants have orders to obey you in all fiery mule to his side.
respects.r"
"The priest's murder has been discovered  All three mounted and rode off in the di-
and suspicion has fallen on you."    . reaction of Belem. Slowly at first, that the
LIO.NEL DIAN.     clatter might not call attention to them,
Hernando reverently kissed the signature, then faster, till the trees and meadows-seem-
and, retreating with his brother to the dark ed to whirl past.. their eager gaze.' Lights
chestnut grove, they 'looked for a group of sparkled in the distance, and the steeple of
trees,. thatstood dqtk and lonely, amidst the Maria Anunciata towered ina robe of moon.
rest, and seemed most fit to conceal their shine above the quiet roofs of Belem.
conversation.                            "Softly," cried the guide, "we must not
-What are we to do, brother?" inquired enter the town, and, before day, have pas-
the elder, after he had imparted to Enrique sed the defiles of the Cintra Mountains."
the contents of the letter.              They choose a small footpath, that- led
"I can not leave this city, brother," cried them around the outskirts of,'the town,,and
Einrique; "diamond fetters, chain me to it. then regained the road, some distance be-
1 would be the most despicable traitor, to yond. Enrique turned in his saddle many
stir one step-:'                       a time, and sent regretful kisses and loving
"I can not understand your reluctance, blessings, to his fair betrothed.


I

34.                       T HEFATA
But Hernando, at the bottom of his heart
cursed this fight, that took him away from
.i' friends, 'relatives, and above all from
one whom he loved more than life.
-But there was no doubt, in both their
minds, but that iron necessity compelled
'their absence. "The discovery of,' their
journey to the North, the way they had ta-
ken, their presence in 'the Moncorvo moun-
tains, at the time of the murder, all could
easily be ascertained, and used to fasten the
eharg upon them. They had intended to
accomplish the deed themselves, had gained
possession of the priest's head and the em-
peror's letter, and delivered them to Dan
Lionel Dian. These latter were circumstan.
ces only known to secret Israelites, but, even
among them, a traitor might be found. An
ignominous deathawaited them on discovery,
while a timely abseneemight throw suspi--
onon a different scent.
Wevill now turn to the bound and gag-
ged Margarita that was held securely on
the crupper of-the saddle by the guide, and
was an unwilling and unwelcome compan-
ion of 'the young men.
She had, by the scene in the hall, where
Fidaro so unceremoniously treated her, ex-
cited the flerdest jealousy in the heart of a
little dried up superannuated footman,who
went by the name of her lover. The foot.
man called Matto, vented his jealousy in
divers violent expletives; he swore by every
saint in the calendar, to drown'himself or
cut his throat. Matto's oaths and protesta-
tions made such impression on the tender
heart of Margarita, that the spinster, resol-
ved not to lose both strings of her bow,
conquered the rumblings and pains of her
throbbing abdomen, to sooth the indignant
lover. Nay she even went further, and
promised 'to meet him in the chestnut grove,
while the attention of all the servants would
be engaged by thefeast. Thusthelongingand
amorous virgin happened to overhear Her-
nando and "Enrique's conversation. The
servant of Don ,Lionel discovered her slyly
retreating,and secured the valuable prize in
the manner above described.
Now, far be it from us, to state that the
virtuous Margarita had any objection to

L SECRET,
elope with any fine builtgoodlooking man
upon the face of the earth. -Bdt  be ihus
torn away, when almost within th6'elasp of
Matto's grms, to be' bound' and gagea-
'gagged '- was treatment too bad, 'to 'be
borne quietly by any female living. And'.
now, riding on a hard trotting mule, whose
every step brought into agitation the 'parts
Fidaro had wounded-was horrible. She
was helpless, however, and could do nothing.
Had she been free, there exists little doubt,
but she would have swallowed both mule
and rider.
- The morning flamed and glowed and
turned red and orange and purple, and sent
the sun all fresh and golden upon the blue
sky, when our riders saw the sea foam
around the cliff of Cintra.
Hernando inquired the name of their
guide.
"Pinnoro, Senor," replied the servant.
"Does our road lead along the shore ?"
"It does, for one day's journey, senor,"
was the reply.
"The castle standby the seaside r"
"It d oes; upon a high roek, overlooking
the wates."
The three rode on, turning again and
again to look at the glorious and rippling
sea.
CHAPTER         IX.
?'H1E COUNCIL L BOA RD.
In a circular apartment, tapestried through-
out, with dark red damask, the council were
assembled. A table covered with the same
material which hung from the walls, occu-
pied the center of the apartment. Around
three sides of it sat, on chairs of a brightly
polished black wood, the members of the
council. On a gilded chair at the head of
the table, raised on a small platform, sat the
king. Don Antonio was-speaking:
"This document," s'd4 he, taking one
from the table, "signed by the chief justice
of Trazos, shows the deposition of the mayor
pf Moncorvo. Two young men arrived at
the city, two or three days previous to the
murder. They tarried at the house of Abra-
hamo Cenna and were seen,by the guard, to
ride from the North gate One afternoon.

I

On, PLoTs       AND    COUNTERPLoTs.                        35
Nextmoxig,When the gates were opened,    "I humbly propose, thst the investigation
they re-stred Moncorvo. Tho gate war- of this affair be committed to my care," said
deonotiOe4'that they looked pale and wild. Don Antonio. "It is necessary for its sue"
At that time, a female, secompapied thqop. cess that the inquiries be made-as secretly as
Thy again, staid with Abrahamo Cenna. possible, and very quickly too.. When the
The.day a ter, they departed on the high- criminals are in our hands, the council may.
way to t   south. Abrahamo Cenna has deliberate on their punishment. Meanwhile
been expmined, but refuses to confess the your majesty can send another messenger,
han condition of the young men. or leave the organisation of the Inquisition
Thus fargoepthis document."             to the Cardinal of Portugal."
"B ofe i teother,''continud D        a     -         -ug
ut I      is t      h e    inue    on   "Our minister is right; I leave the matter
Antonio. -A peasant riding to a neighbor- in your hands, Don Antonio," said the king
ing town, for a cloak that he had forgotten as he rose from his chair.
at-h,                         gonaahdos rm          iIcar
at thedanoe the evening before, asserts: 'As  The council adjourned.
I came to the angle of the mountain pass,  Immediately an order was given to the
about, a league from Moncorvo, my mule officers of the coast, to search each vessel
suddenly stopped, and something white glis- before it left the harbor.
tened in the road, at a little distance. On  We shall now enter the apartments of
nearer.inspection it proved to be a headless Donna Gloria. The clock has struck eleven,
corpse. Horror struck, I remarked that it and the sun tries to pierce the richly colored
was dressed in a priest's gown. Saying my curtains, but succeeds only in throwing now
prayers, calledd assistance from the nearest and Then, a broken beam upon the carpet.
village, and had the body' conveyed toMon.  All is yet quiet; still the lady has long
corvo.  The same peasant reports having since risen, and even taken a' ride through
seen two young men, at that point of the the fresh and dewy park. But Donna Gd-
"gas ,hrass, thatvnenabreria dislikes all noise and bustle. People
"Again, here are some letters, that enable walk on t ,eir toes in her apartments.
us to trace the young men along the highway,  in t ,eion room, whre    n   gle
up to Belem. We will now easily find out looped curtain allows a flood of sunshine to
who were the perpetrators of this horrid waken the splendid colors and polishnof the
murder," and Don Antonio seated himself. tapestry and furniture, the figure of an old
The duke di Asambuja rose and said' tpsr      n   frorte0gr         fa   l
Theiduk di   zamouene sue ndscr- man leans on the pedestal of a Greek statue.
"Firma Fida has no enemies. but the secret The long dark robe confined to the waist by
Israelites, that, like a worm,eat into the core a codark the hited  toe shob
of this fair realm."                    a cord, and the white bald pate, at once show
"There are no secret Israelites, I believe," him to be a priest. It is Pater Marcus, the
said Alphonso, count of Almaveda, "and private secretary of the king.
should there be a few, they have not the  "All this magnificence, all this splendor!
courage to lift their heads, much less mur- it must cost enormous sumsI But the king
der a messenger of his majesty."        loves her, and 'the king can do as he pleases
"The count probably underrates their with the nation's money. I look around, in
numbers and their stations," remarked Don the wide world,and see nought but oppressors
Manuel Perez.                           and oppressed, nought but cheats and cheap.
"True," cried the duke, "they have their, ted; kings lavish the wealth of their people,
friends and protectors even in council."  4n the most vicious of the female ser. The
"Do you allude to me, my Lord ?" asked chief passport to posts of honor and emolu-
Alnuaveda.                              ment is to procure pleasure to toyal de-
"Silence !" commanded   the king.  "1 bauchers. I stand within the factory, and
have summoned the council to deliberate on see the dirty wheels; the iron screws, and
the mannner of action in regard to this au- the sweatingworkmen, thateombine to weave
dacious murder, not to hear their private the bright pleasures of a king, and the mag-
dissensions."      ,         .nificence of a court. I love my master, but


On, PLovs AND CouTantPLoTs.        37

there is no liberty, no justice and no right
but withid-the church of Christ. There is
no salvation but in the oross."   ,
The old priest murmured thus, all alone
in the reception room  Gloria had ordered
that he should be admitted immediately.
In the ante room, 'a orowdof courtiers
awaited the pleasure of the favorite. They
talked loudly and iherrily, and witty sayings,
on almost every high personage, flew about.
Suddenly they were silent, as Donna Glo-
ria, ' who had finished her ride, flushed and
heated with the morning's exercise entered.
All bowed low.
"What has brought Don Pedro from the
side of his young wife, this beautiful  orn-
ing," inquired Gloria, stopping before a
young and handsome man.
" To assure myself of your health,Donna."
"This is not, all ?"'
"I also easn2 to make a request."
"Letus hear it."
"My sister Maria wishes to become lady
of hopor to the dowager queen; could-"
"Itshall be attended to, Senor."
"My sister will thank you in person; and
allow me to send you, by her, a beautiful
diamond, which I selected for you."
Donna Gloria passed on.
She again stopped before a man on whom
sat an air of importance. His face was red
and blown up; his attire gay and in bad
taste.
" What gives us the pleasure to see you,
valiant captain? Itmust be a glorious thing,
to stand upon the deck of your ship and
look over the broad Tagus and the glittering
sea, this fine morning! Be on your guard,
captain, for I intend to surprise you, one of
these morzings, and to take the Santissima
Trinidad liy storm."'
"Take her, lady; and her captain to
boot I" cried the rough seaman, in undis.
guised admiration.
Donna Gloria was not displeased; she re-
plied, smilingly:
"I thauk you, captain; I shall remember
your affer, and perhaps one day remind you
of it." The lady paw pensive, during the
latter part of this ,eply. . .
" But what have you to ask, Captain Poi-
Ia?" xhe inquired,

"If it please your excellence, my nephew,
Juan Poila, has loig served oit board of 'iy
ship, sh  honestly 'earned 'his pk6motion.
But no  'hear that the duke of Aanbja"
has proposed a nephew of his, to sueeeed'ny
lieutenant, who died at' Ormus, afid' -cheat'
my nephew of his just promotion.' They'
told me that your excelhiney had great 06w.
er with our gracious king,'and'I came to
request you to speak a word for Juan Poi"
Ia," and the sailor opened hie iouth in er
pectation of Gloria's reply.
"The matter shall be investigated," was
Gloria's reply, and' she signed to the page
following, to make a note of it on a'tablet of
ivory, which he carried.
Gloria passed on, and entered the 'recep-
tion room.
Seeing the priest, she exclaimed:
"Oh, father Marcus, I hope you have not
been long kept waiting I" -
The priest merely answered by a ow.
"But now," continued the lady'whose ani-I
mal spirits had been raised by themorning's
exercise; "now, you must share my pastt"
" Your!excellency willexcuse die, I hope,"
said the priest, seriously, "for I have broken
my fast already. Let us proceed to the bu-
siness for which I was summoned."
" Nay, uncourteous priest, you shall even
first sip with me, the delicious decoction of
Araby. Let us see whether it will put'you
in better humor."
Father Marcus gave vent to a grumbling
sound-half refusal, half unwilling assent.
Donna Gloria now sounded the steelen
rattle with an energy that brought several
pages at once to the apartment.
"Will you let me die of hunger!" she noi
costed them; " I am here,-with an appetite
like a famished beast, in instant danger of
starvation, and none attends with my break-
fast; bring a cup for father Marcius, too !"
In a few moments, one of the pages re-ap-
peased with a tray, on which were two small
cups of gold, half filled with a syrup-like de-
coction of the coffee bean, a silver plate in'
the shape of a large grape leaf, heaped wiih
delicate pastry, and a silver flagmn of wine,
flanked by high Bohemian glasses.
" Taste this drink, father, urged Gloria,
while she satisfied her appetite.

#1

"I like not the decoctions' which, in imi-
tation of the luxurious Musselmen, we swal-
low, the materials from  which they are
made, are bought at heavy cost ip foreign
lands, while our home agriculture is not
patrqnisedor encouraged."
"But, to meet you on your own ground,
father, does not the consumption of the coffee
bean and other Asiatic products give an im.
pulpe to the trade with the East; and how
much that trade has benefitted Portugal, I
need not say."
"Let us leave the business of setA te to his
majesty's ministers," said the priest.
"You are unbearable, this morning,"
cried Gloria. "This exceeds even your usu-
al moroseness."
Father Marcus munched a sugared star,
Gloria needed,' however, the priest; and
he was deep in the confidence of Juan. She,
therefore, said.
"Drink a glass of this fiery wine, raised int
our own land, on most Catholic mountains,
by most Catholic peasants, and then we will
proceed to business."
Father Marcus finished his glass of wine,
and Glorialeft the apartment for the docu-f
ments.
She returned presently, holding them in P
her hand, and signed the page to retire.
"Father," she addressed the private sec.
retary, "I submit to your scrutiny, 5ocu- fl
ments, that, for ought I know, may be of the
highest importance. They are written in a
cipher which I can not read. Before I de-
liver them into your hands, promise me, not
to divulge anything contained therein, to h
any one, but by my permission."
"Suppose, I should refuse to look at 1
them ?"                                0
"Menial! you deserve to be scourged for
such a supposition ! Then I will compel you, o
by the commands of your master, to read d(
and inte-pret themI"                   b
"&amp;[e*di lady," said the priest, awed by
1her maimer, and the power he knew her to th
possess; "of what advantage will it be to me h
Ito read and interpret them to you alone ?Ia
Donna Gloria softened at this question.  Io
You will have me for your r-iend; if you
'desire gel, name the amount.",W

"I desire no gold,' replied father Marcus.
"What then; explain yourself!"
"I must have a promise, upon the hoy
eross, to be requited with a service qn yori
part."
" Name it," cried the lady.
"I can not; f know notyet what I mpy
require, or wen; you must leave that to my
discretion, lady."
" But, it is impossible that I should prom-
ise to perform, what I know not whether it
in my power to do."
" Rely on me, lady," said the priest, ",I
will not ask too much."
'Gloria considered for a moment, and then
kissing a golden cross that hung from her
neck, said:
"I promise"
"Give me the papers, then."
The priest looked long at them, while
Gloria's eyes were bent upon him in expec-
tation.
"I know not the cipher," he said at last;
"but let me take the papers, and by the aid
of the cipher-record of the royal secretaries,
will interpret them and copy them out in
air Portuguese."
"Very well," said Gloria; "but if you
lay me falsepriest - I"
"My life is in your excellency's hand."
"True; and I will have your heart's blood
or duplicity," replied Gloria,
"I have the honor to wish you a good-
morning!I"
" Let me soon hear from you I'"
The priest was gone; Gloria still doubted
im.
"The papers can implicate me in no way,"
he mused, " and while I retain my power
ver Juan, father Marcus is in niy hand."
Gloria s-mmoned her favorite page, and
ordered the curtains, that veiled each win-
ow, to -be looped back, and the windows to
e opened.
Golden' streams of sunlight poured into
he apartment. Throwing a black veil over
er head to protect her complexion, the
dy seated herself at the open casement and
Doked out.
The sun did not yet shine with that heat,
whichh ripens the glowing grapes of Portu-

36            Tnn FATAL SECRET,


TI

38

Tnz FATA'LSECnaRT,

gal,'and'pbui'bparklihng'fire into her wines. and quiet the lbweis so glad and sparkling
A lae spring, and unusual cool weather for that the man 'must indeed be dead whose,
thatlime, temisered the0ays of the glorious mind re.awakened to life, light and' beauty
luahiaty, to the mild splendor with which feels not andreflects not the young 'd"
he ,looks on more Northern climes. This When quite a child, my mother was' ac-
made it pleasant to sit in the sunlight at a costumed to take me out 'for a walk, earl y
time of day, when, later 'in the season, it in the spring and summer mornings. Every
would hive been impossible to ventura from one who has visited Germany, will recollect.
the shade.                              the beautiful walks and promenades that
The fountains threw their foaming spray surround so many towns. Along one of,
aloft, and received it back in millions of these promenades, with fine old trees and'
brilliant globules, that colored, and glittered, green strips of meadow, we were wont to
and invested the watery pillar with gorgeous walk, inhaling the fresh morning beeze, and
drapery, woven of broken sunbeams and looking at the sunlighted dewdrops. Oh,'
falling water drops. Gloria saw near one the mad joy of those mornings, when the
of the fotains, a group of the higher ser- child felt as if h6 could toss mountains aloft,
vants othe house, engaged in earnest con- and grasp the snowy cloudlets of the sky. I
versation, now and then broken by exclama- And the sweet and pious words from the,.
tions and gestures, that indicated a state of lips of a mother which restrained the wild
excitement.                            exuberance of those feelings! When, senti-
One footman tall and lean, seemed tot be ments of piety and love, principles, whose
the chief orator, two women, however, tried excellence was proved in later years, were
zealously to emulate him, and each other. instilled in my heart; and great changes of
After a while, Gloria becoming curious to time, scenes' and condition, have not been'
know what was the subject of their conversa- able to efface the teachings of a mother
tion, sent a page to inquire.'         on a spring morning!I And in what a sacred
"'If it please your excellency," sAid he, spot of my heart have I preserved and kept.
returning to the lady, "old dame Margarita the memory of those early walks! NothersI
Flunos is missing,.and they exhaust them- if you wish to speak to your children of
selves in conjectures, concerning her where- the greatness of God, about his love, mercy.
abutss"                               and benevolence, take them  early in the
"What do they say about it ?"        morningto a spot, where nature's wonders
"Some think the evil one has carried her may impress their mind, and, in their own
off; others say she compelled a young lover extravagant feelings, they will understand'
to elope withher; and a footman thinks, pi the Deity's omnipotence; in their glad and
rates must have stolen her, for he found her joyous hearts throbbing with affeetion for
searf, in the grove and the footsteps of men you, they will comprehend the Universal
near it."                              Father's love; in their pleasing view ol the
"Enough I"                           aspiring life of flowers and insects they will
venerate his mercy and benevolence.
C H A P T E R   X.             After this digression, we confess some re-
T a E B  O T H n RR S. luctance to return to the scenes and actions
How it wakensthe ani al spirits to take a of our tale.
walk in the fresh air of a fine spring morn-  It was also a spring morning, and the
ingI What an exuberance of life we feel breeze was fresh.and crisp, and, the sun was
throbbing in our veins! 'What a mad joy pale and fresh, and the wavelets sung me-
dances in our brain, leading the most sober lodiously, for the voice of the sea was not
into all kind of extravagances! The brisk hoarse from itirmuring a whole day.
air and the fresh sunshine seem to pour their  On the Western coast of Portugal, in the
invigorating influence into every pore. The Northern part of Estremadura, a peninsula .
.sky is so fresh and dim; the trees so dewyI extends into the A tlantic Ocean.1 On that

1

On, PLOTS      AND COUNTnRPLOTs.                         39
jagged coast, cut up by baysandlong streaks with fanciful carvings, fountains and
of water, that, like fingers of sea, seem to galleries, being less durable than solid Go-
grasp the land, and presenting an appearance thief architecture, had fallep a prey to the
of'irregglar scallops of rock and land, a pe- ravages of time. In the former apartments,
ninsula s not rare. On the contrary, one which looked out upon the sea, the. brothers
can not travel even a few leagues without had established-themselves... Margarita-Flu-
meeting bodies of land deserving that name. noz, was lodged in anisolated tower at the
The "peninsula, we speak of, was not dis- landward angle of Salonga. She was a pris-
tiguished by any peculiar   characteris. oner, it is true, but treated with more con-
e fromethers; but it lay to the northward sideration und respect than she had ever
and within sight of the town of Peninche, been before. For, having arrayed herself
and Idape Carvoeiro. The Cape is the ex- in some garments of. her mistress, (an an.
tree point of a considerable tract of land cient custom of chambermaids,) to graee
spridag cd , as it were from Portugal. And the meeting with the amorous footman. Mat-
Peniehe is a town of business and wealth to, she was mistaken for a person of rank.
built upon this' tract of land.- The peninse- This mistake, it is needless to say, the prm.
Is, which lay a few miles distant, was bound dent Margarita thought it superfluous torec-
in and faced by rocks, which, on one side, tify.
rose to a considerablee height, and hung, as  The brothers stood upon a small balcony
it were ove the sea, On the extreme point that projected from one of the windows in
of this overhanging cliff stood the castle of Hernando's room, and looked out upon the
longg, an old and strong edifice, whose sea. Far away it stretched, until their gaze
architecture bore traces of taste of the Go- tired by the monotonous beauty of the rol-
.thic and Moorish races, that had successive. ling water, rested upon some nearer object.
ly inhabited it. Gray and weatherbeaten, it Toward the south the horizon was bounded
had looked for ages on the tumbling billows by the dim outlines of Cape Carvoeiro and
of the Atlantic ocean, and faced the wildest the town of Peniche, with the vessels an-
storms of that mighty water. But now the chored before it.
huge stones, which crowned the walls began  Some days had passed since their arrival
to crusable, and small traces of vegetation,on at the castle, and the necessary secresy for.
the sides sheltred from the weather, indi. bidding the customary amusements of' the-
cated the crevices.                    chase, the time began to grow long to them.
The castle could only be approached on ' "Hernando," said Enrique, "I begin to
he side toward the land by a narrow and chafe at this confinement. After all, we
steep path leading up the cliff, and which might have been safe enough in Lisbon.-
horses ascended with great difficulty.  Who would have suspected us, if we had not
From the seaside the approach was a lad- fled? And why need we Ay since we are
der of steps cut frm the rock, where it was innocent ?"
least steep, and on one side of which a row  "You are unjust to our preserver, my
of wooden stakes aided the ascent. The brother," replied Hernando. "Believe me,
rock itself, was bare and jagged, with a few that our journey to the North, and our pre-
melancholy looking bushes hanging on its sence in the mountains, which can easily,
sides.                                 be discovered, -are enough to criminate us
" This was the castle where Enrique and in all eyes. Oh, my heart also urges me to
Hernando had taken refuge, according to return to Lisbon! My soul is chained there!
the advice of Don Lionel Dian, whose prop- My feelings and passions,'like wild horses,
erty it was.                           seem to drag me back to the capital.-
The castle, though old, was still in good Still I can not be so unreasonable, as to
state, and had some fine apartments with mistake the necessity of this flight, and the,
heavy antique fOrniture; another part of! good service the prince has done us! But
the building, arranged in the Moorish style oh I" he added bitterly, " why can not I free


40

TILE FATAL SuecnsT,

myself from this aect which makes me a  "How good and how pleasant is it, when
hypocrite to religion, -and a traitor to my brothers dwell together in peace ! Happy am
king? Which keeps a'sword suspended by I to'see that you verify this verse, and that
a hair constantly overly bef !"       warm  afection is between you. Let peace
"Hernando," cried Enrique, "an evil be always with you, chevaliers!"
spirit has put those words into your mouth !  The brothers who had sprung up at the
Free yourself from the religion for which first sound of this voice, now bent reverently
our father suffered so much, and of whose and kissed the hand of their prince, Don
'truth you are convinced! and why ? because Lionel Dian. He was in plain attire, and
youe coward heart shrinksand trembles at wore a dark cloak and slouched hat.
the dangers which attend it! you surely  "I came to see that you were well atten-
ineant not what' you said, brother !"  ded, as it is seemly the guests of a prince
"It was merely the cryof a vexed heart," should be. The safety of the castle will
replied Hernando moodily.              somewhat make up for its inconvenienceand
"And is it the desire to be with mother loneliness. However, a rich library of man-
and Maria, which as you say, draws your uscripts is collected in one of the apart-
heart so 'towards Lisbon?   Surely, our ments, and you can avail yourselves of it to
mother and sister have been instructed by pass the time."
the prince,,of our whereabouts, and we will  Gracious prince," said Hernando, "ac-
see them, when it can be permitted with  , Gou    s rince,  indlyeran,
safety," said Enrique. .               ept our thanks for your kindly warning,
safey," aidEnriue.and the safe asylum youbave placed us in.
"I have often been parted from them,En- We are safeoasyof your are forourceon.
rique; and, although it would be a great venience, and happy in the consciousness of
comfort to be at their side, yet it would veinetandhaprtheonousness'
not wholly appease the cravings of this notice."Ige
heart."                                   I am  also happy to inform you, that
' Then you have formed a dearer connee- your mother and sister arc well. 1 spieion
tion, brother ?" inquired Eurique-a blush had nearly fallen on you, but the pursuers
mantling his own cheek.                are on the wrong scent now. I shall be
"If you will know then-yes!" relied careful to bring the bandit-murderers tojus-
Hernando. "Ikave formed a dearer, sweet- tice, and thereby put an end to your confine-
er and stronger connection. That is, I am ment here."
not quite sure yet1!" he added, in some con-  "Can we not return till then ?" inquired
fusion. Then throwing his arms around Hernando.
his brother's neck, he whispered in a low  "It will scarcely be safe to do so," replied
confiding voice:                       Don Lionel. "Farewell, meanwhile, my
"Enrique, I love !"                  brave young men," and the commanding fi.
"Confess, my dear brother, and I will ab- gure of the Hebrew prince disappeared, be.
solve your sinsI then, in turn, be you my hind the curtains of the door.
father confessor, and I will hope also for a  Hernando and Enrique separated, lost in
kind absolution."                       deep reflections; the first to examine the li.
lovee a beautiful lady of Lisbon. She brary, and the latter to tend the flowers in
knows not yet of my passion, but I have rea- a small patch of garden, which he had made
son to hope that she will listen to me. Oh, his especial care.  '
she is an angel, Enrique, and I love her In the afternoon, the brothers again met
with a passion strong as life itself." in the same apartment and sat down to con-
"Pronounce her name, Hernando. Do I tinue the conversation, so 'bruptly termina-
know the beloved of my brother ?" ted, in the morning by the entrance of Don
" You do,Enrique; can you not guess?"  Lionel Dian.
The door of the apartment opened, and a "Now, may brother, " began Enrique,
full, melodious voice said:             "name to me the lady that has captivated

I

I

On, PLoTs AND

your heart, and then I will return your con-
fidence."
"You also love, Enrique! Then you
will understand my passion! I love, madly,
passionately, and all the more violently be-
cause I have tried to conceal it, I love-"
and Hernando hesitated.
"Whom?"
"Donna Rosa Bananda 1"
"My bride" ejaculated, in a voice of
fearful agony, the thunderstruck Enrique.
" THY BIDMII !" retorted Hernando,
while all the blood of his body rushed to
his head, and swelled the knotted veins and
arteries of the brows, until they seemed an
angry net of cords. Both were silent for a
moment. Then Enrique without a trace of
the usual gentleness in his voice and mien,
said sternly:
"My bride. The maiden whom I love,
and whose heart has been given to me, in
return. She is affianced to me before high
Heaven, and shall be so before men ere
many days pass. Dare not to think of her,
brother!'"
Hernando turned pale as death, whilst
Enrique said this. All the blood which had
run to his head, streamed back to his heart.
This lasted but a moment, the agony and
suspense of which are indescribable: Then
all the wild anger, the imperious and fiery
nature of Hernando was capable of, arose
in his breast. Then was, swept from * his
mind, every thought but that a man, hsd
stepped between him, and the first object of
his passionate affection. Then vanished all
but the maddening knowledge that a man
had robbed him of the highest blessing of
life; of a heart, for whose possession he
would have sacrificed all and rejoiced. A
child of the South, with wild passions like
evil angels tugging at his heartstrings, with
resistless anger and mighty love conquering
and treading down reason, Hernando was
for the time mad.
He seized his brother at the girdle of his
tunic, and his strength increased tenfold
by passion, lifted him from the ground and
carried him to the small balcony. Holding
Enrique at arms' length, over the foaming
billows, that far, far below, lashed the foot
6

COUNTHRPLOTS.                      41
of the cliff, he howled in a voice, almost in-
articulate from passion:
"Will you give up Rosa to me ?"
" Never ! Consider, brother, that she loves
me I Hernando, you mean me no, harm I"
and Enrique tried  to grasp his brother's
shoulder, while the cold sweat of agony
and dread stood on his brow.
"I will dash you to pieces onthe cliff
below, if you do not consent I"
" Brother I remember that one mother
bore us!1 for her sake, hold 1"
Hernando faltered.
"For God's sake, brother I"
"Will you give up Rosa?"
Never I"
Then die 1" and, with fearful energy,
Hernando hurled his brbtber down into the
deep and wild sea.
And the sun looked from the lue sky,
and the waters blazed like bek  of gold
and fire, and the birds rose frft  their
nests in the crevices of the cliff, and skim-
med over the waves as the body of Enrique
disappeared beneath the snowy foam.
C H A P T E R XI.
THE WRITING ON        THE DooR.
Sunday morning dawned on the city of Lis-
bon, and the first bells sent'their clear, ring.
ing notes to the ears of the pious, as a sum-
mons to rise, and not be too late at church,
when Pater Sylvester, the sacristan of the
cathedral, opened his eyes.
The first object that presented itself tohis
sleepy glanee, was a woman standing at his
bedside, with her tongue busily engaged
in discharging scolding terms at his devoted
head. She was about the middle age, fat,
but hard featured, and dressed in a flashy,
slattern style. The worthy sacristan made
several conciliatory motions with his head
and short flabby hands, at the same time
pronouncing a few Latin benedictions, (his
stock in trade,) to allay the wrath of the fe-
male scolder. But the dame was not to be
pacified so easily. Nothing would content
her, but that the drowsy priest should risa.
Would be deprive Christians of their chance
of salvation, by opening church too .late ?
Would he lose his situation? Would he dio-


42

Ti r, FATAL SECRET,

please -his: superioras? and a hoat of other covered the reason of this early assemblage
interrogations poured from the mouth of the immediately, for men were talking loudly
woman, until she had fairly compelled Pater and excitedly. But, as it was; he proceeded
Sylvester to rise.                     through the crowd and arrived dit the
The reader will; by this time, he anxious door of the cathedral.
to know who this woman is, that exercises  Upon the oaken doors,covered with crosses
such powerful sway'over the worthy sacris- and saints elaborately carved, was fastened,
tan, as to drive him from a comfortable bed in the most conspicious part a scroll of pa-
and soft morning dreams without a show of per. Upon the scroll in letters' large and
opposition. Is it his mother? His sister? bold, were inscribed the words:
His aunt? None of these, but one more      THs MEssIAH HAS NOT YET COME!
powerful yet. It is his cook.              JEsUs Is NOT THE TRUE MIEsIAH I
Dame Katalina, (this was her name,) did  And below, in smaller writing verses from
not leave the room, when her'master rose. the Bible to prove the above.
On the contrary, she helped him to put on  The-astonished sacristan dropped his keys
his garments. The pious woman had too of- and, I verily believe would have dropped
ten been cook to reverend fathers, to retain his swelling paunch, to do'full justice to his
any particle of modesty about her.     horror at this bold sacrilege, had it been in
"The belle have been ringing this half his power to do so.
hour, and still you lie there sleeping and With the aid of some of the crowd, he
dreaming, as if there were no such thing as took down the scroll, and opening the ca-
a cathedral to open, or tapers to light, or al- thedral cried:
tars to adorn. Oh marry, I think, I could "This shall be laid before our Lord, the
attend to your duties much better than your king !"
self. I wish I were a man and you my     " Yes, bear it to the king !" cried a host
cook."                                 of voices.
The Pater thought that he certainly would  The excitement increased every moment.
have no objection to the exchange.     Sunday morning service was forgotten; hor-
However, before he went away, theviorthy ror and rage at the sacrilegious scroll fas-
Katalina softened down to a proper humor, tened to the very door of the cathedral, took
and some love passages occurred during the possession of every mind.
breakfast of the pious couple, which it is  As the crowd increased, it was reported
notnecessary to record here.           that similar scrolls had been found on the
As the sacristan issued from his house, a doors of all the churches.
bundle of keys in his girdle, and a scarlet  The cathedral was filled with an excited
lush upon his small round nose, his lips still multitude, The sacristan and his busy as-
agreeably tingling from the last draught of sistants had lighted the tapers, and adorned
wine, he immediately perceived that, early the gorgeous altars, and now stood in robes
as It was, numbers of men flocked to the of scarlet and white on the steps of the high
cathedral, andthat quite acrowd was already altar. Master pieces of painting adorned
assembled before the door. the walls and ceiling, while to the'pillars
He hastened, therefore, as fast as the ma- were fastened stands of gold and silver, on
jestic proportions of his paunch would allow which stood exquisitelyearved saints. Shrines
him, to the cathedral.          '      of martyrs and holy men, sparkling with
"Perhaps they are desirious to hear the gold and jewels, and bright with lighted
new  Cardinal preach," he thought as the tapers, lined the walls. . The' altar itself,
erowd respectfully opened to let him pls full of gilding, flowers and lace, blazed with
through. Had the thoughtful sacristan not the flames of wreathed tapers, and glittered
been lost in' his own reflections, but properly through the clouds of incense and perfume,
opened the thick ears that hung at the side that from swinging censers arose around it,
ef his'head, heundoubtedly would'have dis- like the sun, through the mists of an autumn

I,

OR, Pr~oTs AND

morning. Every where crosses, madonnas
and saints were repeated in themost various
forms, with the richest materials.
Now the organ lifted its mighty voice, and
in' waves of harmony coated through the
longnaisles. Mass was performed. The pa-
pal nuntius, Cardinal Georgio, in his mag-
nifient robes, led the service and preached
the sermon.
And with burning words, alluding to the
scrolls fastened to the churches, he inflamed
still inore the wrath of the populace. When
the serviee was concluded, and the high
dignitaries of the church had retired, the
congregation left the church to wait before
the doors for the sacristan.
As he issued forth, with the scroll in his
hand, to return home, they told him of their
determination-to bring the matter before the
4-king immediately. They wished him tb be
their spokesman, well convinced that his
learning and sanctity fitted him to be so.
With some reluctance, the worthy pater
allowed them to place himon the shoulders
of a couple of strong mechanics. Thus,
mounted in the midst of the still increasing
crowd, pater Sylvester was borne to the roy-
al palace.
The king entered into thespirit of the
multitude, and received the scroll brought
by pater Sylvester. Don Antonio, the min-
istir, appeared on the balcony and assured
the people, that his majesty would endeavor
by every means to discover the perpetrator
of this sacrilege. .  -        P      Id
For this purpose, Juan sent the same day
ten thousand gold pieces to Luke Giraldo,
one of the most prominent merchants of
Lisbon, to be paid to the man who would
discover or lead, to the discovery of the
writer.
Ris eminence the Cardinal Georgio, nun-
tius of the pope, added five thousand gold
pieces more, to those already deposited by
the king.
Public criers proclaimed in every street,
that Master Luke Giraldo had orders to pay
fifteen thousand gold pieces, to the man who
discovered the wretch that had dared to
write the words, and to affix the scrolls to
the door of the churches.       i

COUNTER'PLOTS.                      43
The king was'furious. Two sue acts,.as
the murder of Firma Fida and the writing
on the church doors, occurring within a
short time of each other, in bold defiance as
it were, of his authority, showed him that
there must exist in Portugal a power oppo-
sed either to the church or the government.
He consulted with Don Antonio. The min-
ister's opinion not only coincided with that
of the king, but he also assured Juan that
this power must be strong, very strong, thus
openly and boldly to defy the royal authori-
ty. Still there was no evidence of dissatis-
faction among the nobles, or among the
people. Who would conspire against the
king? None but the Prior de CastroI' And
who would conspire against the church?
none but the New Christians, that still were
Israelites in secret ! Then the, king and
his minister came to the conclusion that the
Inquisition would be the most effectual,
means to control both these powers, awl the
king ordered Dop Antonio to prepare a let-
ter for his signature, requesting his holiness
to appoint officers of the Inquisition in Por-
tugal. . Meanwhile every endeavor was
made to discover the guilty ones. Let us
see what the people said on the subject.
A knot of men were sitting in front of a
tavern, that looked upon the Tagus. - They
conversed upon the scrolls on the church
doors.
" It will go hard with him, who did this!"
said a sailor whose sunburnt sallowness of
skin showed that he had been in India.
"le will but get his deserts, and Lisbon
will have a holiday. Oh it is a fine show to
see a man burnt," said the host, a fat chub-
by little man.
"Have you ever seen it ?" inquired the
sailor.
" When quite a child; but since then I
have seen a man torn to pieces by wild
horses, which is also a spectacle not to be
despised."
" You should be in Spain then," cried a
meagre lantern jawed Spaniard, who re-
galed himself with bread and onions. "I
have seen numbers burned; and such mag-
nificent processions, with the holy fathers,


44
the, condemned, the San B
lay servants I"
"Well you need not br
have the Inquisition here
host,
,"Bring me another mi
cried-a country man, " and
all about the man torn by w
host ran into the tavern and
ly with the wine.
"Now, I am curious to he
ded the sailor, laying down
position to listen.
Thehost who liked nothing
talk, played an overture of
small preparatory coughs,
began:,
"I can't s::y exactly bowl
I :suppose its about-" and
his fingers,-" five-ten-fi
"Stop, stop," cried the
mind how long ago-begin
The host threw a furious
patient sailor, and said:
"1I tell the story my ow
doesn't like it may go. It w
years ago, when great de
lands Rain, we had none ti
smaller streams began to
heat of the sun. The crops
The fsrmers could expect n
ine and ruin instead of a ple
Then people crowded thec
were beseeched, innumeral
burned, and splendid presen
convents and 'abbeys, But
fell.
" Then the country peopl
rebellious. They demanded
church and of the king. TI
Lisbon and their growlsr
and Patriarch. But neithe
triarch could compel the clo
"Oh host," cried the sai
must-we listen to your clatt
til you are satisfied that we k
n              -rain?"
*an Benito; the punishm
sition for some light offenses,
culprit in a yellow shirt pain
and devils, and thus lead
streets. The shirt was called

Tn     FA    T S enRE,
enitoa* and the , , "Sailor, I am on my own threshold, and
have a right to talk as long as I please."
'ag; we will soon  The sailor heaved  a gigantic sigh, and
too I" said the said, " Proceed I"
"Then a miracle occurredon the great Pra-
asure of wine," cat of Lisbon, where formerly a high cross
then let me hear of black wood stood. From the crevices,
ild horses." The where the different parts of the cross were
1 returned quick- joined together,a golden light streamed. All
Lisbon assembJed and hailed the miracle as
Dar that too," ad- an omen that God would listen to the pray-
in a convenient era of the people.  .
"At that time, Jews were still allowed to
ag better than to live in the country. And one of these un
hem, hems, and believers, s tall, strong man, (I stood near
after ,which he him, and saw him  well,)-cried from  the
midst of the crowd, who knelt down   to
long ago it isbut adore the miracle: 'were it not better your
I he counted on saviour, performed a miracle with water,
fteen-"        than with fire ? were it not better he send
sailor, "Never rain to your fields, than make light shine
with the story." through the holes of a cross?' when the
look at the im- people heard that, they began to murmur.
But nothing daunted the unbeliever cried;
n way, and who 'Do you not see that the priests have made
as about fifteen this cross hollow and concealed a lamp in
earth was in the it?' then a monk, that stood by the cross
hat yearand the cried: 'Bind him, for he has blasphemed !'
dry up from the and a hundred hands were stretched nkt to
were destroyed. bind him. And the same day he was ied
ought but fan- to four horses, by the four limbs of his body
nteous harvest, and, torn to pieces. Then we had good
churches; saints times. The .monk told us, that all Jews
ble wax tapers should suffer for this, and we,nothing loath,
its made to the accompanied him through the city,and every
t still no rain Jewish house was pillaged, and the owners
killed, beaten, or driven away. This- ring,"
e began to grow and the host, raising his hand, exhibited a
d rain of the costly gem on his finger, "is the only thing
iey thronged t that I have yet to remind me of that time.
reached the king The Jews were rich and every thing fell into
r king nor IPa- our hands. Men often paid me for a few
uds to rain."  measures, of wine with a silver spoon, or
lor, "how long something else they had been enabled to
ring tongueun- rob. If you-"
know, there was  "Nog that's enough I your story is done.
Cease to prattle, my fat friend !" said the
Lent of the-Inqui- ietrable sailor.
was todress the
ted with flames  "Well if they catch the fellow, that wrote
him through the
San-Benito.     tSquare.

1

I

On, PLOt's AND COUNTERPLOTS.

those words, I hope they'll have him torn t
pieces," yawned the countryman.
"1 love these executions, first for thei
own sake," said the host, "next for the sak
of the church, and lastly because the
bring customers to town."
" A happy ihan is he who discovers th
fellow, for fifteen thousand gold pieces ar
his," said the sailor turning around t
doze.
We turn to an assembly of Israelites tha
had been hastily convened in the basemen
room of the inn of St. Ignatius. Their
countenances were troubled; alarm and fea
-were evidentin the hasty questions and
short replies. Don Lionel Dian was absent.
An old noble of great learning presided.
The general question was: who had done
this ? Was it a secretIsraelite?
The general answer could be no'other
than, it was: for who else, in Lisbon be-
lieves not inChrist?
While the meeting was thus agitated and
swayed by fears and doubts, a young man
entered, and stepping up to the platform on
which the chairman was seated, requested
permission to address the assetably.  The
chairman raised his hand, all were silent.
When   the  young man -looked.,around,
with astonishment all present recognised in
'the pale haggard features, the sunken eyes,
the brow hung over with wild mottled hair,
and the bent form, the ere brilliant and
handsome Hernando da Costa!
" I have written upon the doors of the'
churches the words which so excite the -rage
of the people,and your alarm I 1 have,in the
face of Chistianity proclaimed the truth -of
our religion, and thrown into the teeth of an
idolatrous nation the false maxixAs they bow
to. I have done this, and am ready to die
for it. Be under no apprehensions,-breth-
-'ren in faith-I will deliver myself up to the
king's justice! for Hernando da Costa has
nothing left but death!"
At first the assembly had listened with an-
ger, for this dangerous and useless procla-
mation of Jewish principles had needlessly
re-awakened the old hate of the Portuguese
nation against the Israelites. But gradual.
ly a deep sentiment of pity prevailed.

o  The young man seemed to labor under
such a load of misery; his physical beauty
r was broken; his mind evidently distracted;
e and his actions. and demeanor wild. His
y dress was in the greatest disorder, and his
beautiful hair hung in tangled locks around
e his head.
e   "But my son," said the venerable chair-
o man," know ye not that, by this action, you
have excited the wild rage of a peoplethat
t may destroy us ? Will not the king be urged
t now to introduce the Inquisition? Can we
again intercept the messefiger? Will all
r the. king's ambassadors travel without suite
I like the simple priest ? Son ! you have done
very wrong. Still, even to ensure our ge-
eral safety we will-not deliver you up to the
officers of the king, nor permit that you
should voluntarily devote yourself to death."
"But what can we do to stop the mouths
of those, that now cry: 'ferret outthe secret
Israelitesl they have done this!" said a
stout middle aged' man, a merchant wl-o
trembled for his magazines" filled with rich
wares.
" What Will become of us, it the Inquisi-
tion be established," cried two men, in the
garb of inks:
Each ode b6gan to represent 'and bewail
the peculiar danger which Would threaten
him 'and his possessions, if it werd diseover-
ed that the pretended New Christians hd
relapsed into their old religion. None pro-
posed any plan of action. It was clear that
the leading spirit, Don Lionel Dian was ab.
sent
After all had finished their descriptions of
a danger, of whose greatness they were con-
vinced befoi'ehand, their eyes fell again on
Hernando, and their thoughts reverted to
delivering "him  to the king as the only
chance of safety.
But the oldnoble who presided could not
b3ar this thought. He arose and said
'"Neve'let as be bead enough to throw a
fellow inan a'.nd brother into the jaws of
death, for what -we know to be no crihn, but
even act of vitue. Let us rather atteiapt
to avert public wrath, and direct it into
another channel, by affixing to the church
ddors a second proclamation, which shall

V


46                       Tif    FAT
lead all to think, that an Englishman and
Protestant wrote the first. Thus we will
be saved."
No; one else had any other plan to offer
land, therefore, the proposition of the old no-
ble was adopted. Still it seemed to many
but a trivial measure to allay public wrath.
The materials for writing were brought, and
Hernando had to sit down and write upon
large sheets: ,
"1 am no Spaniard and no Portuguese,l
but-an Englishman; I am a stranger and so-
journer among you. But if you spend hun-
dreds of thousands you shall not learn my
name."     I
Hernando did all this in a listless manner,
like one who, as it were, had no spirit, no
mind' no will to move or act himself, and
was impelled and moved by others. With
the greatestastonishment all saw this change
in him, the reason of which none suspec-
ted.
Let us retrace our steps and follow him
from the moment when mad with love, rage
and despair, he threw his brother Ernrique
from the balcony of castle Salonga.
After, in a moment of wild madness, when
reason, reflection, and even consciousness
was absent, Hernando had committed frat-
ricide, the reaction of his feelings was as
sudden as it was violent. The fraction of a
moment after he had unclasped his hand
from his brother's girdle, he would have'
givenhis life and soul,-heaven and earth, to
have it once more in his power to undo the
horrible deed, to save Enrique. With the
quickness of thought all the better parts of
his being, fraternal affection, reason, and
kindness of heart returned to him, and like
the lightnings lash in a dark night,.served
only now to show his forlorn, lost and damn-
ed condition to his mind's eye.
And it is always thus. When the evil
spirit, offspring of our own untamed passions
and undicipliged mind, has darkened our
.,eyes, and led dsto steps beyondredemption,
has plunged us into the deep, deep abyss of
sin; from whose mire a whole lifetime of
excellence can not cleanse the soul, he takes
away the blindness, and with tenfold light
illuminesihe depth to which we have sunk,

AL SEonnT,

and the heights we can never hope to climb
again.
The terrible deed,and indirect consequence
of his love for Rosa, wiped away all the
brightness and fire of that love, and left it a
burning sore in the heart of Hernando. Let
not the reader understand that now he loved
Rosa less. Far from it.- But every thought
of that beauteous lady was' attended with
agonizing remorse, with terrible pain, and
with a dreadful conviction that his, 'oyna
doing now separated him more from her,
than when the bright form of Enrique stood
between them.
The excitement and consequent reactida
of his feelings, seemed to have prostrated
his mind and soul. He was in a kind-of
stupor most of the time, only broken here
and there by flashes of a transient wildness.
In oneof these intervals he fled from castle
Salonga to Lisbon. His family alarmed by
his looks, and behavior would send for a
physician. - But Hernando looked the doors
of his apartments and would admit none.
In another fit of wildness, he had written
that bold declaration, and affixed the scrolls
to the church doors.
We have seen that he freely offered to de-
liver himself up. Indeed he would have
considered it a blessing, to be allowed to
steep his heart in the water of teath. For
he was tired of life and the sore pain in his
breast. Yet death alone would not satisfy
him. With severe justice he wished to die
in the most painful way as a partial pun-
ishment for his crime, and to appease the
angry spiritof Enrique, which he imagined
to attend him constantly. To appease the
wrath of God, he intended to maintain his
creed and principles in the face of the world.
Thus, vain man, he tried to lay life which
was painful and burthensome to him, an ap-
peasing sacrifice at the altar of God, and the
tomb of his brotherI And thus it is with
all of us.
We know that justice is preferable to in-
justice. Every one feels intuitively what
is just and unjust, which from this point of
view.are but other names, for good and bad
and, therefore, whenever we have wronged
justice, we feel a criminal consciousess of

I

I-

OR, PLoTs AD

it, and then try to sooth ourselves, by bring.
ing a sacrifice to justice. Still even then our
selfishness -lets us sacrifice things, become
useless to us by the very injustice commit-
ted.
On the Monday following the day when
the scrolls had been found on the churches,
Lisbon vyas astonished by other scrolls
being attached to the same places, with the
words:
"I am no Spaniard or Portuguese; but a
stranger and sojourner among you. Yet if
you offer hundreds of thousands you shall
not discover my name."'
1ut the effect was different from what was
expected. The people, and the priests who
preached 'to them, said: "This is a trap to
mislead us. An Englishman and heretic,
although he believes in Luther, does not de.
ny Christ. None but a Jew could have
written those words, " and the inquiry was
diligently continued.
CHAPTER XII.
D O N N A GLORIA AND THE PRIEST.
Father Marcus again waited on the Coun-
tems de Voga. She received him graciously,
and, when the servants had left the room,
inquired:
"Have you been able to read the docu-
ments ?"
"I have; if your excellency will wait but
till [ can take them from the pocket of my
gown, 1 will read to you, their contents."
"Be quick father, for I am very impatient.
Are their contents of interest to me ?",
'"I can not say how far they may interest
your excellency, " replied the priest, search-
ing and fumbling in his voluminous pockets.
"Now, God help you, if you have lost
them I" cried Gloria, giving way to her im
patience.
"Here they are, " replied father Marcus,
c]mly, producing the articles in question.
"Now read them," cried the countess,
leaning forward eagerly; and in her eager-
ness almost grasping the priest's arms.
Farther Marcus began.
Not to weary our readers with a tedious
tra-aslation of the documents, we will briefly
acquaint them with their substance.

COUNTEIPLOTS.                       4T
The firbt-was an agreement of the Duke di
Asambuja's to secure to the Prior di Castro
the adherence of the nobles of the council,and
'of the leaders of the Cortes, on his royal ex-
cellency, the Prior di Castro, being able to
prove, by well attested documents the mar-
riage of his mother, to his majesty Emanuel
the Great. Also to prove, by certificates of'
baptism, his birth to have*occurred before
that ofJuan IlI, the present occupant of the
throne.
The second document contained a promise
of Don Diego di Azambuja, to bring one
thousand men, of well trained troops, to
Lisbon, whenever a written command of his
excellency the Prior, countersigned by the
Duke di Azambuja, was sent to him.
The third was a sanction of the prior's
claims, by his eminence the Cardinal Geor-
gio.
The fourth was the plan of a new Con-
stitution.
"This document,". said father Marcusto
Gloria, "I will restore to his eminence;"
and he put the Cardinal's sanction againinto
his pocket.
Gloria was satisfied. Now, a glorious
view of revenge opened before her mind's
eye. Don Diego was her's! her's entirely!
what more could she wish to accomplish!
She had his life in her handI She could
crush himI and crush him she would. She
would break the pride which made her a
nunI She would revenge the years passed in
the convent! Her blood rushed to her
head, and scarcely could she command her-
self to listen, to what the priest said.
" Here !" and he showed her a small pa-
per, " here is a letter which I found amongst
the documents; it makes mention of a gen-
eral meeting to be held in two days. The
place of meeting, the required signs for ad-
mission, the disguises are all so described,
that, if you permit me, I will attend the
meeting myself, to convince my own eyes of
the truth of these statements. You, as a
friend of the present king, certainly wish to
explode this conspiracy, and punish the
traitors?"
"Certainly. And, priest, I will even ac-
company you there."


48

TexFATAL SXeRET,

"You, lady !" exclaimed the astonished
secretary.
"But consider, the impropriety I"
"1 will gothere!"
"Consider, the danger, lady I"
"Have you heard 'me? 1 will go there!
bring the necessary disguises, at the tinie,
and I *ill accompany you I"
Father Marcus bowed.
CHAPTER         XIII.
TILE CONSPIRATORS.
4, the appointed time the priest attended
Glori.6. He brought two gowns, such as the
inferior monks were used to.wear. To the
bosom of each was fastened a cross of white
cloth.. The.cowls, that were attached to the
upper part of the gowns, were large and
he vy,
This, then, is the disguise we must as-
s"e e?",asked Gloria.
"It is, lady; are you yet determined to.
go,?"
$I I never give up my purpose."
"Tu God's name, then."
Father MarpAs wore an uncommonly se-
rious depression, even for him, this evening.
Perhaps he repented of having projected
this dangerous errand..
"Be py chambermaid, for once, father,
and, help me on with this cassock I" cried
Gloria gaily. -
The priest did as he was bid. Gloria fas-
tened the cord around her waist, and drew
the ugly qowl over her head; none would
have recognised her. She seemed one of the
tall poor monks, that throng the streets of
Lisbon to beg, or collect money for charita-
ble purposes.,.I
The private secretary covered his simple,
but Ane black garb with the other monk's
habit. They were ready to go.        .
"Where is the place of meeting ?" inquir-
ed Gloria, as she east a last glance. into the
mirror, and smiled at the complete meta-
morphosis of her figure.
"In a private chapel, hard by," replied
father Marcus.
"Let us go then," replied Gloria, opening

a secret door which by a winding staircase,
led to the rear of the pavilion. , : .
"One thing I must communicate to your
ladyship, ere we start," said the priest has-
Gloria turned.
"The sign on entering is to raisetlehand,
with all the fingers closed, but the first and,
the last. A watchword was also alluded to,
but not mentioned. If a watchword is ne-
cessary we will have to listen, for what those
preceding us pronounce."
"Very well," replied the lady, and both
were about to descend by the secret stair-
case, when an opposite door opened, sad
Maria Flunoz, entered, Seeing the two
priests, she said in great astonishmePt. ,"'I
thought rsy lady were here I" The.apart,
ment ,hey were in, was the last but one of
that suite.-.
Gloria knew that her chambermaid would
enter the next and last, to look for her. On
not finding her, she would be alarmed.-
Therefore, the lady said, in a voice as deep,
as possible:
" What have you to say to your mistress,
girl? I am going in to hea her confession,
and you must not disturb us."
" Nothing, holy father; but that the page,
Fidaro, has a message for her from,. Mas-
sor."'
Gloria entered the next apartment, saying:
"Wait a moment," and presently she re-
turned without her disguise.
"Father," she said to the priest, "enter,
for a few moments, this apartment," and she
pointed to the one she had just left.
" And you, Maria, bring the page bet'e."
In a few moments, Fidaro stood before the
Countess; the chambermaid retired. The
page threw burning looks-upon the beauti-
ful lady, and throwing himself upon one
knee seized her hand and seemed to devour
it, with a kiss.I
" Rise, Fidaro!l this is not seemly," cried
Gloria .slightly blushing, but smiling upon.
him with her velvetty eyes.
The page arose.
"What have you got for me, from Mas-
sor?" inquired Gloria.
'' " This letter,lady; he is about to return to
the vicinity of Lisbon from the North."

Ir ,.

a

On, PLoTs A'ND

Gloria tore the thread that tied the epistli
and inquired:
" Can Massor write? 't is a great accom
plishment for the gipsy chief!"     -
The letter contained these words:
"To morrow night, I will be with you
when the clock strikes twelve. I then -will
for the first time, avail myself of your pro
mises, and prefer a request. Be ready.
MAsson.
"Do you know what he will require ?"
I can not even imagine."
"Have you any other message, Fidaro ?
"ot for you, lady."
For whom else; you have no secrets be.
fore me, GIhopo 
"Oh yes! my God, I have a great secret,
which I shall not dare to tell you," and the
page sighed deeply and cast imploring looks
at the Countess.'
"Secrets of the soul are best kept within
one's own heart, where they sing -beautiful
songs, and weave golden hopes. When they
are once let free, they leave us, and the torn
remains of golden hopes, the sad memories
of beautiful songs are all that remain."
" But one heart is too small to contain
this secret."
." Let us talk of other things," cried Glo-
ria, alarmed at the-turn the conversation had
taken: "let us talk of your message. To
whom is it?"
" To his excellency, the Prior di Castro,
and to Don Diego di Azambuja, my young
master-"
"What are you to say to them ?"
"I wm to give them these two letters," and
he showed to Gloria two epistles.
"Did Massor bid you do anything else?"
"To report to him all that passed at a cer-
tam meeting to be held this evening." ,
"Excellentl" cried Gloria. "Quicktell me
the password which is needed for admission;
for I am also going there."
"You!" cried the page.
"Certainly; I have already a cassock
with a white cross, and know the sign of rai-
sing the hand, and extending the firt andI
last finger."
"I am lost in astonishment," cried Fi-4
daro.

.COUNTERPLOTs.                      49
e "And I in impatience; the password!"
"God and the rightful heir !"
-  " Thank you. Is nothing else necessaty
to gain entrance ?"
"One thing more, lady, and this will prove
an insurmountable obstacle to you.. The
, name of the person must be given, who en-
ters."
"The name of the person. Pshaw!" the

lady considered for a moment, and-thea said:
"Fidaro, do you know of any-one that will
remain absent ?"
"I know of none; and even if one stays
away, his friend will state the reason of his
absence and excuse it to the others."
"A bright thought! Fidaro,doyou assume
a monk's habit, when you go there?"
"Yes, lady. All there wear the gown and
cowl."
"Then let mego there in your place."
"Impossible, lady I" cried Fidaro.
" Nothing is impossible; give me the let-
ters, that I may deliver them there," said
Gloria.
"But if you should be discovered ?"
I will not be discovered. Hasten,Fidaro,
and give me the letters."
" Oh lady, do not go! Will faithfully re-
port to you every circumstance that happens
there; do not go !" cried Fidaro.
"I must go; that is enough. Give me the
letters."
Fidaro handed them to her.
" Is anything further necessary to be
said, on delivery of these letters ?"
" Nothing, but that Massor will be in Lis-
bon, tomorrow night, and see the Prior and
Don Diego himself."
"Very -well. Await my return here;"
andGloria re-assumed the monk's habit with
the white cross, called fatherMarcus, and
disappeared with him behind the doorof the
secret staircase; Fidazo was left alone.
They passed out of the pavilion. Donna
Gloria, ignorant of the streets of Lisbon,,al-
lowed herself to be guided by father Mar-
cus. While they were walking along a solii
tary lane in the rear of the park, she related
to the secretary, what Fidaro had told her
concerning the necessity of giving the name
to gain entrance.


50
"Then it will be impossib]
ter," said the priest, stopping
Q On the contrary it will
since 1 shall deliver two lett
in the name of this Fidaro,
vant of the duke di Asambuj
" But will you not be rec
duke ?"
"Scarcely; I can act wellI
another, and hope to imitate
page tolerably well."
"Youventure into great da
said the priest.
0I do; but by what mean
to gain entrance ? be care
undertake, priest; for you r
risk of discovery, and are in
dons situation than I, when,
"Leave that to me, lady; b
or other, I will enter, and
the proceedings of this meeti
more doors leading into a
principal gate."
They were proceeding t
dark, silent part of the cit
were lonely, and perfect
Donna Gloria had to accept
Father Marcus' aid, to ex
from  the deep yielding
around her feet. At last th
el.
It was old, and had an
about it  There is a certai
ponding, and guilty express
dwell upon buildings, trees,v
inanimate substances just as
the human countenance.
The church or chapel to w
the priest were proceeding I
sie- Not. all the flood of
pouredover it, could bright
flickered among itsjuspiciou
as if anxious to get away.
Like ravens to a favorite r
among the branches of a lof
figures in.the dark guise of
around.and flocked to the ch
in a rather elevated positiu
steep'wastern side of the m
which:Lisbon-is built.
Above the door of the ci

TH     FATAL        e RETt
le for os to en- ture of St. Jago, and the chapel bore the
9.            name of the saint. Now, the small bell in'
be easy for me; the little tower sounded its clear voice and
ers, and appear struck nine. The figures -immediately .be-
who is the ser- gan to enter the chapel. A considerable
a."           press seemed going on at- the doors of the
ognised by the chapel.
; "Walk up, boldly," said father Marcus to
the manners of Gloria; " I will ente r by another *way-"
the voice of the  Let us here stop for a moment to discuss
the reasons that Gloria gave herself, for un.
ngerCountess," dertaking this hazardous adventure.
First of all, there was the spirit of fun and
s do you intend adventure, which was constantly stirring
ful in whatyou within her. Then, there was the prdspect
un the greater of getting possession of an important state
a more hasar- secret Thirdly, the romance and danger
discovered."   attracted her. Fourthly, there was the great
y some means charm of hearing what was not intended for
be a witness of her ears; the latter i always a great charm
ng. There are for ladies. However, these were trivial and
chapel than the minor reasons.
The first and greatest reason she could not
awards a rather give herself. Nay, she would not even ac-
y. The streets knowledge it to herself, that such a reason
canals of mud. existed.
several times of  "I can do the king  and my country a
Ktricate herself, service; it is my duty to go." This was the
mud that lung manner in which she gave her own mind ac-
ey saw the chap- count of her caprice.
Who knows not the heart of woman?
abandoned look The erst, the only moments of happiness
n hang-dog, des- that Gloria had enjoyed, were passed on the
on, which may bosom of Don Diego di Asambuja. His soft
woods and other voice and tender words stole away her sen-
well as upon ses, his fiery embraces inflamed her soul,
his looks, his kisses, his letters, all were not
rhich Gloria and forgotten-for what woman does ever forget
had this expres- the object of her first love, the man who
f moonlight that stirred up the first troubled, sweet and in-
en it, but rather toxicating emotions of her heart ?-no, too
slooking stones, well remembered, they shone from the mis-
ty past, like the reflection of stars from the
rendezvous high bosom of the deep sea.
ty tree, so, many  In youth , she imagined love- to be a gor-
monks hovered geous flower that sprang up in the human
apel.  It stood heart and streamed with clouds of perfume.
on, on the steep An angel that nestled in the bosom and war.
iddle hill, upon bled songs of paradise. A sweet draught
that sent sparkling-happiness through the
iapel was a pie- veins.

On, PLOTs AND COUNTERPLOTS.

51

, ,
A
t

She had loved, and found love to be a fire quisitely shaped,plump,white hand, flashing
thatfilled the hoar; .a flame that devoured with jewels, belong to the page Fidaroe?
the senses; and a hunger that dried up the As - it was, 'none remarked it, and the lady
soul, increasing with each endeavor to sat- entered the body of the chapel.
isfy it.                                 A few dim lights: beamed through the
Where flame and fire have been, ashes re- darkness, and illumined the interior with
main. Where insatiable hunger has dwel- the feeblest possible light.
led, exhaustion follows.                 There were altars, saints, old- and torn
Still we hold to the memory of early love, drapery, ani crumbling pillars. But noth-
destructive as it must be to us, wherever it ing else. All was solitary, and quiet. When
takes hold of the heart, as to the remains of Gloria's eyes had become more used to the
the brightest portion of life. Life is so darkness, she saw those that had entered be-
covtmonplace, so earthly that the heavenly fore her, silently proceeding up the middle
emotions must necessarily jar with it. A-id aisle and disappearing near the high altar.
in the combat of visionary, ideal happiness Gloria followed and on nearer approach dis-
with practical life,.it is easy to say whict cerned that a slab of marble, covering the
will conquer. Therefore, love is a happi- entrance to the vaults, which still exist be-
ness which exists to be destroyed, which neath every old church, had been lifted, and
lives, but to be entombed. Still the antici- that people as they entered, descended into
pation which precedes it, and the memory these dark receptacles of the dead. With a
which follows it, are portions of its happi- shudder, the lady followed the others, and
ness. Donna Gloria felt herself drawn to- after descending for some time, found her-
wards Don Diego., She would see him self, in a vaulted apartment, where the eon.
again' Hate, revenge, all held their proper spirators were assembled. The eenins, that
sway; she - would do- their bidding at the probably for long years had mouldered
proper time, but now they must yield to the away beneath these arches, had been re-
desire, unseen by him, to behold her secret moved to another part of the edifice, and ex-
lover again. -Perhaps she would sit near cept the close smell, and the confined, chilly
him, perhaps-but we will not indulge in air, there was nothing that told of the neigh.
all the sanguine castles, which the-heart, borhood of the dead.
though only illuminated by the memory of  Lights had been placed around the walls,
former love, can build.                and a great number of them illuminated a
She walked boldly up to the church door, small platform, upon which sat three per-
where most of the monks had entered, and, sons in the garb of monks. Gloria remained,
passing in, was encountered by two persons. leaning against a pillar,:near theentraneof
"God and the rightful heir," she said,imi- the vault, until all-the -conspirators had as-
tating the full voice of Fidaro, so that even sembled, which became evident, when the
the page would have been astonished at door was closed; a small bell, quieted the
hearing his own voice thus re-produced.  whispers, in which those present had so-
" Your name?" inquired, one of the per- versed.
sons, who, also in the attire of monks, seem-  The three monks upon the platform put
ed to guard the entrance.              back their hoods. The middle one was the
" Fidaro, page to the duke di AsambujaI" Prior di Castro,.the two others, the duke di
1 The sign," said the other.         Azambuja, and the Cardinal Georgio,
Gloria made it, by extending her first and  Gloria slipped along the wall up tothe
last finger, and raising the arm.      platform, and addressed the duke:
YPass on."     .                      "My lord, I have a letter from the gipsy
If there had not been some one pressing chief for his highness the.Prior, and for Don
on behind Gloria, and drawing off the atten- Diego."
tion of -the doorkeepers, she would surely  The duke recognised his: page Fidaro in
have been discovered. For, could that ex- the voice and manner, and said:


52                        Tun -FAT.
"Give the 'Prior's letter to me. My-son
sitsyonder."
DohnaGloria delivered the first letter to
the duke, and then turned to where Don Die-
go sat.
,He was completely wrapped up in his
disguise.
Stepping up to him, Gloria said:
' Aletter from  Massor, my lord I" and
held It out to him.
As he turned, his cowl was thrown back
partially, and Gloria could see his face.-
She - trembled violently on recognising her
loverr,-      .  11
"You tremble, boy ?" asked Don Diego
in the old musical voice.
4'It is the first time that I have attended
such an assembly," replied Gloria, in a very
low tone.
"Be not frightened; stand behind me un-
til this is over; you are my father'3 page ?"
-"Iam; my name is Fidaro!"
-At Well, Fidaro, when did the gipsy chief
give thee this ?"
"Day before yesterday; I found'him near
Coimbra."     -
"Coimbra?" and Don Diego sighed.
.Gloria had placed herself, behind tse
young nobleman. That sigh! Like the loves
from the seafoam, so new hopes and joys
appeared from.the depth of Donna Gloria's
heart at that sigh. Was it breathed to the
memory of that early love ? Was it a tribute
to the recollection of her?
She stood behindDon Diego, and dream-
ed, and hoped, and hated, and trembled, and
gnashed her teeth, as various emotions rol-
led through her soul.- Men spoke, and ar-,
gued, and proposed,and accepted-she heard
nothing saw nothing but the form enveloped
in the dark -monk's habit, that sat before
her. And her dream was suddenly broken
in upon, by the obnelusion of the meeting,
and the departure of those present,.
We, however, who are perhaps interested
in the events of this meeting, will briefly re-
capitulate what passed there.
The Prior di Castro was greatly embar-
rassed. He had promised to exhibit the
proofs of his right to the nobles, that had
assembled, and but a short time ago dis-

AL SoRET,

covered that the casket containing those
proofs, had been stolen from his private
closet. He was, therefore, forced to prevari-
cate and satisfy the nobles with the word of
the duke di Azambuja who had seen those
proofs. The nobles were bid, meanwhile to
prepare and muster their followers, and,
gradually draw them to Lisbon.
Don Diego had promised to bring a thou-
sand men, to forward the scheme.
The gipsy chief had promised to bring
five hundred stout fellows, well armed, and
twenty thousand gold pieces.
The other nobles all named the number
of men, and the money they could furnish.
Each hesitated not to makeremarks about
the reward of their services,
His excellency, the Prior, promised to
take their request into consideration.,
The duke di Azambuja was to be prime
minister; Don Diego to be commander in
chief of the army. The gipsy chief had pre-
ferred, in his letter, a singular request.
" Religious liberty I" Moors, Roman Cath-
olics, Israelites, all he wished to be put upon
an equal level, in a social and legal point of
view. The assembly was paralysed with
astonishment. The Cardinal was the first to
declaim against this. Others followed. The
Prior was forced, to rise and promise to ac-
cept on those conditions nothing from Massor.
Another meeting was to be held a week
from that day in the same chapel, and
which was to be attended by many of the
Cortes.
Then  the conspirators adjourned and
dispersed. Don Diego arose and said to
Gloria:
" Follow me home;- I wish to put off this
disguise, and then we will proceed upon
another errand."
Gloria bowed, and followed Don Diego
into the palace di Azambuja.
"Lay aside your cowl, and wait for me
below," said Don Diego, entering his apart-
ments.
The embarrasing situation of Donna Glo-
ria increased every moment. The pages and
servants, that filled the palace of the proud
duke, looked half inquiringly, and half sus-
piciously at her.

.  S'              } .
J
G
5

'

On, PLOTS A

-The door of Don Diego's- dressing roost
again opened, and his own servant, or as h4
now would be styled, valet de chambre
came out, and giving ablack mask toGloria
said:
"Go Fidaro; change your dress, and keel
this mask in your pouch; then await Doi
Diego, at the palace gate."
A dark-eyed youth that stood by, laughed
and whispered to Gloria, thinking that i
was his friend Fidaro:
"What mad adventure took Don Diego
outto night? Has he a desire for the hear
of some fair nun, that he assumes a monk's
garb ?"
"Silence," whispered Gloria; "come with
me-to my room, and help me take this cowl
off, for as you hear, he is going out again,
and I'must accompany him."
" You speak in such a strange manner
to night, Fidaro," observed the youth; "Ho,
there I give me a torch," he called to some
servants.
"No, no; " cried Gloria; "I can change
my dress in the dark."     -
And she drew the .youth's arm, through
her's. Thus she was led to Fidato's cham-
ber without discovery. Chance which had
favored her thus far, deserted her not now.
The room was dark, very dark.
" Hand me some of my clothes, while I
strip, this gown off, " she said, in a low
whisper.
"1I will; but when you return, tell me all
about the adventure."
Gloria tore off the gown, aud hastily strip-
ped'herself of dressea and skirts.
"1 can not find any thing, without a light,'
'tis so very dart here," said the youth.
"Then go and get a light, but quickly,"
replied Gloria.
The youth left the apartment
In a moment Gloria had ascertained
everything that was in the chamber, by feel-
ing. She ran against an open chest. With
a quickness only possessed in ruch cases,
and which at other times it seems as impo.
sible to imitate, as it is for a strong, healthy
man to assume the strength and power of
delirium or madness, she had drawn from it
hose, tunic, and cloak, and slipped into

D, COUNTERPLoTs.                      53
a them. A. pair of boots was next looked for
e they were found together with a hat, on- the
e, chair near the bed. Amoment *.ore and
i, the hat -was drawn ddeply over her face.
The bodts also were put on.
p   Then she heard the steps of the young
n man bringing the light.
With a spring she reached the place where
I her dresseshad been thrown,seized themiand
t forced them intothe chest, from whence she
had taken.the hose, tpnic and cloak.-
The light' already shone through . the
t slightly oped doory'whea Gloria shuttle lid
. of the chest. As-she tied the strings of her
mask, the youth' entered with torch.
" Why Fidro" he ex6laimed, "you have
taken Amaso'b clothes.: What will he say ?"
"So I have,", eriedGlotia. "But it was so
dark; and now I have no time to chage
them."
" Well, he will not perceive i. -RHe will
sleep already - when you return, and.-then
you can replace them in his box."
. - "What is that? "-eontinued the youth,
picking up a splendid ring, that had dropped
from GloriIa's hand..     .
" For God's sake be quiet. I must hurry
down to accompady .Don Diego., When I
come back,.I'll tell you."
" Very well, take it."
Donna Gloria not hearing to expose her
hand said:
-',Keep ittill I return," and hurried down
the long corridor, dotvn the -staircases, and
with bended head, stopped at the gate,where
she was presently joined by.Don Diego.  .
" I need not tell you, that whda you see,
and wherever yo: accompany msmust , be
forgotten by .tomorrow's light. My father
has told me that yoh were intelligent and
trustworthy; you Willaud mea good master
if you preserve those qualities," and the
young noble walked rapidly down the silent
and deserted street,closely followedby the
disguised Gloria.
CHAPTER, XIV.:
TH     HOLY   tal5Irs     .N.
A crowd of idlers lounged around the gates
of a stately palace, not far from thePraadi
Parano, in Lisbon. Some were seateA upon


54

THa FATAL Scae,

the hardened heaps' of' mud, that~arose at
intervals in, the midst of the street.- Others
lay upon the ground'beneath the shadows of
thehouses, in the listidas attitude of Italian
loafers. Some talked and argued. Others
stared dreatmingly at the-blue-sky. Some
seemed to wait with -curiosity for the
oeedrrence-of something within the palace,
or theiseuing of -some, one from the gates.
Othersiwith indolent' indifference, slumber-
ed. In short, idle people had come to see'
the great Catdinal Savelli, and his renowned
seeretary Domingo; a Jesuit. Both had but
recently= arrived' from Rome, with a Papal
bull, aidletters from" the' Emperor Charles
V. ::The papal bull established the Inquisi-
tion in Portugal, and appointed Cardihal Sa-
velli its head,'and legate of the Holy See.
Hiseminence 'had been summoned to the
council. For the matters to be discussed
there partook much of the 'eclesiastic. Peo.
ple had-not'yet' seen the Cardinal Savelli.
It was for .this reasn, And to receive the
blessing' of 'a holypriest just arrived from
Rome,(then the prime factory of salvation,)
that around his palace had assembled a Lis.
bon drowd'
That is to ssy, a-crowd, enthusiastic- and
easily excited, but the moment after: again
relapsinginto languid indolende. A' towd
alite toll show and splendor, but dead to
everything thatdid not amuse orezeite theni-
The sun shone as a Portugaese sun is -wont
toshine inaimmer. 'The Tages blazed with
the releetion of intense light like white hot
brass The sky hung like a shady blue
dome; far above the city.
The-gates of the palace were thrown
open  F'oim thd ample entry rode three
Jesuit priests, onsleek well fed mules, Then
followed six servants in black, riding in cou-
pINs. '
'Their countewances' looked severe- from
under the broad black band of their caps.
Next, two noblemen, whom' the king had
sent to meet and attend the Cardinal. Then
followed his Emineicae
Cardinal Savelli was a strong, tall man,
with, *-biosd bat athei lov brow, bulging
ont at-be temples. Piercing gray eyes, that
tould soften soas to look tenderly beautiful,

flashed from beneath the thick, well arched
eyebrows. His mouth was handsome, but,
with a very sensual: expression about the
thick muscles around it, and on the full,
proud chin.
He was dressed in a long scarlet robe,
confined by a broad scarf of the same color,,
around the lower part of his chest. A cross
of gold hung by a broad ribbon on his
breast.- His head was covered with a small
scull-cap, around the edge. of which, the
black hair curled.
Behind him, rode Father Domingo, th,
Jesuit,'upon a stout, rough black horse. He
was attired in dead black, and carried a
large cross of gold in his right hand. This
man was of herculean frame; his face seem-
ed originally to have possessed a noble and
handsome aspect, Nay, the features were
still handsome and noble, but a curious ex-
pression of ferocity and cunning seemed, as
it were1 forced upon them.
Then a considerable train followed the
Cardinal.
The crowd was now all alive with curious
eyes and gaping mouths. It is true, there
was nothing peculiarly attractive for them,
in the appearance or retinue of the Cardinali
But thefame of his sanctity, the knowledge.
that he was to organise the Inquisition, and
the honor with which the king received him,
eombinedto-give him a high position in the
eyes of Lisbon. Above all, there was some.
thing new about him and his ways,'which
attracted the people.
Every knee was bent as his Eminence
rode past. He replied to these salutations
by'spreading out his right hand and several
times pronouncing the blessing:
"Benedicite, mei filii I"
Arrived at the royalepalace, the Cardinal
dismounted. Aroyal official held his stir-
ruppand another received his bridle. Father
Domingo, also dismounting, held the golden
cross he bore, behind the Cardinal's head,
taking' care to keep equal steps with him.
A Brilliant throng of nobles'and household
officers. awaited him at the gates, while 'the
soldiers of the body guard, were ranged in
glittering lines to receive the Cardinal. He,
again, blessed all, with proud humility bend.

I

a'

I

On, PLoTs AND

ing his head,,ascended the staircase with
stately step.                ,I
The council were assembled.. Their Emin-
ences, the Cardinals Savelli and Georgio, sat
to the right and left of the king. Above the
head of Savelli, the Jesuit held the golden
cross.
Another priest performed the same office
for Georgio. From the back of Juan's
throne, and above ,hs head, glittered a
crown.
"We are now assembled in council," said
Don Antonio to those present, "for the pur-
pese of investigating the act of attaching
certain scrolls, with sacrilegious writing to
the door of the churches of this city; also
to reconsider the mode of action in regard
to discovering the murderers of the priest
Firma Fida. Then lastly to invest his Emin-
ence, the Cardinal Savelli, with full powers
to organise the Inquisition."
"My authority is derived from his holi-
ness. I bear a papal bullI" cried Savelli, in
a deep proud voice.
The minister bowed.-
" We will invest your Eminence with
power to judge and execute in the kingdom
of Porlagal." - The king nodded approv-
ingly, He was jealous of his royal privi-
leges, however much devoted to the church.
"In regard to the 'sacrilegious writing, an
event las occurred, which will happily end
all inquiries. The perpetrator of the crime,
- propably tormented by conscience --has
delivered himself up to justice." There was
a movement of surprise amotig all but the
king, whose eyes merely gleamed with a
joyous dash.
"I considered it best to place him before
the council," said Don Antonio; "doth yourI
majesty desire to interrogate him?"
"No, do you inquire of .him concerning
the deed; let him be brought in quickly,"
said Juan.
Don Antonio gave a sign.
There was a bustle and movement with- I
out, and Don Hernando da Costa, eurroun f
dad by guards, was brought into the apart-E
meant.                                 - i
"This youth r' exclaimed the king;. "im- I
possible!"                        .    a

CoUNTArPLo'rs.                   55
"So it mightwell seem to your majesty.
For favors have been heaped.upouhim and
upon his family. Yet heconfesses himself
the perpetrator of. this erima," said Don An-
tonio.
The duke di Azambuja murmured: "His
father was a baptized Jew*and the children
are unbelievers. But. give: me rather ten
thousand heretics than one Inqisitor Gene-
ral;" and he threw a look of hate uponithe
proud Savelli.
"So think I, my lord," said the .count di,
Almaveda, who leaned upon the back of the
duke's chair.
"So think all good men," rejoined the
duke. - "Still, there is but onetway to avoid
this, and that must soon be tried "-
"I know, whatyou mean I God and the
rightful heir."
"Silence I"
The prisoner looked 'up Every eye was
bent upon him. His own cheeks again were
covered with a bright flush; and his eyes
flashed with excitement, when he perceived
the presence he stood 'in Juan 'threw a,
glance, in, which surprise and anger were
mixed, upon the young man.
Hernando's cheeks were hollow; his eyes
had sunk far down beneath- his forehead,
and gleamed like wild ignq fatuts from
the depth of a marsh. His hair hanging
smoothly down,-made only the more evident
by its black color, the mottled, ghastly pate
complexion, which now disfigured. the young,
man.
His right hand was torn and covered with
clotted blood. For in the wildness of his
remorse, he had dashed the hand whieh had
committed fratricide, against walls and eorsA
ners, until the flesh was merely lacerated.
The young mai hadsuffered terrible tor-
ments. . He writhed underthe punishment
of the damned. He felt the fate of the aw
cursed.
Let theologian* believe and teach, that
heaven is ever so far above, and hell everso
far beneath us, the experience of life will
show, that there is a heaven and a hell with-
n the bosom of man. These are, as it werap
ooked and guarded by a goodand an evil
spirit. Do we resign ourselves to' the' in.


56              .         T-N a FATI
fiuence' of the evilspirit, we imagine still
that we 'preserve dominion over'him. We
think:him our slave, to beused and put away
as we chose. , But the evil spirit may then
be compared to the witches of German fairy
tales. When the slightest part of any one's
body, s a.lock of hair, or a scraping ot the
nail had.been given up to them,1 they had
power' to 'ride the man each night through
storms and -seas and deserts., In this way
they inflicted torments on the sufferers, until
they, had broken their strength, health,
beauty, mental faculties and religion. At
last the unhappy victim was released, either
by death 'or by a resignation of his soul to
the witch. And so when we have given up to
the spirit of evil the least part of our actions,
passions or feelings, -he has power over us,
and rides the soul and body either to death
or perdition.
Hernando had resigned his passions for
onceto evil influence, attired, as it was, in
the rosy.fires of love. And, since-then, day
and night, the evil spirit ,sat on his heart,
and spurred it through the bitter storm of
helpless remorse, the deep sea of irreparable
guilt, and the barren desert of hopeless des.
pair. This had broken his strength, beauty
and faculties. of mind.. This had spurred
him - not-to perdition - but perhaps to
death!
?Do you confess having written this scroll,
and affixedit to the Cathedral door !" inqui.
redthe minister.
"I do I" replied Hernando, in a firm voice,
looking boldly up.
A start of surprise shook the company at
this bold manner, in a criminal, whose con-
demnation was certain.
"Give us the reasons of this strangely
saerileglous act!"
Hernando was silent for a moment. Then
looking fell at theking said:
"What I belive to be true, I openly affir.
med, When you demanded the criminal I
delivered myself up. I. am an Israelite, a
believer.in the God of Heaven and Earth,
and as a slight atonement to my God for
having so long bowed before the idols in
yourpoturches, I am ready to die. Kill me
ten thousand times, if you can, but know,

.  no __       t

.

A

L 8 WO rT     -
that your creed is false, and the religion of'
Israel is trueI Know that only tyrants 'iom'
pel their subjects to adore the same dark.
ness to which they prostrate themselves
Know that you are blind slaves to thetricks
of cheating priests, and "
"Blasphemy I" cried both cardinals, rising
in great wrath.
"Choke that blaspheming dog with a
flaming firebrand I" added Savelli, almost
springing on Hernando.
The Jesuit that stood behind the-cardinal
did not move. Great drops of sweat rolled,
from his face and bands, and his eyes were
cast down.
Hernando relapsed into listless silence.
The noblemen looked at each other in
blank amazement. The count di Almaveda
sat with calm face, but with hands so con-
vulsively closed that the nails entered into,
the flesh.
The king bit his lip with but illy suppres.
sed wrath. He felt, as if he should like to
spring at the young man, and tear him to
pieces. Don Antonio was the most composed
of those present. For even the guards shot
looks of anger at the, unfortunate Hernando.
A moment this silence lasted.  W -
Then the Cardinal Savelli turned to the
king.
"Sire," he said, still flushed with wrath,
"if such men existin Portugal,the Inquisition
is indeed the only measure, which can avoid
the fall of the church and throne. The cur-
sed heretics of Germany and Switzerland,,
are saints compared with this youth. ,The
church is poor in tortures to punish sins
like his. Nevertheless, we sball do our duty.
The justice of the king must deliver him
into the hands of the Inquisition for, against
the church he has sinned most. This after.
noon, I shall, with the permission of your'
gracious majesty, organise a tribunal. To-
morrow, this heretic shall be submitted to
the question."
"The question ?" inquired the king. "Is
that necessary ?"
, "Assuredly Sire!" replied the cardinal.
"He doubtless has accomplices."
"If you think so, Cardinal, submit him to
the question I"

OR, PLOTS       AND
A cold thrill shot through the assembly,
at these words. The king's permission bad
been granted to employ the question, pro-
perly called, the torture. Hernando was led
out scarcely conscious ,of what had been
spoken. Torture or no torture-the greatest
torture was within his bosom, and no rack
could tear his limbs more than remorse had
torn his soul.
"I place the castle at your disposal, Car-
dinal;" said the king.
"It is not necessary, sire," replied Savelli
"I have already chosen the Convent of Santa
Cruz to be occupied in the service of the
holy Inquisition, until a proper palace can
he erected. The convent has strong prisons,
and deep vaults."
"Do as you please."
"Thanks to your majesty, the true cross
will reign undefiled in Portugal. A solemn
service, and mass shall be held this evening,
atthe royal chapel to celebrate the establish.
ment of the holy tribunal in this land."
"But aire," the duke di Azambuja ventu-
redto say, "will the nobles and Cortes accede
to this ?"
"Need I ought of their consent in the
establishment of this institution, my Lord of
Azambuja?" inquired the king, angrily.
The council was over. The cardinals
blessed the king. His Eminence, Cardinal
Georgio departed, not quite satisfied with
the mode of proceedings, for he was thrown
entirely in the shade by his brotherly col
league. Yet Savelli bore a papal bull, letters
from the emperor, and was charged by his
holiness to establish the Inquisition, while
Georgio had no such charge.
Savelli remained to give orders in regard
to Hernando's prison. H    gave lengthy
instructions to the officer,- ho was to take
hin to the convent of Santa 'ruz, and guard
him,there. He spent some tme in advising
the Dominican monks, who would visit the
prisoner, and exhort him to confess his ae-
complices. And, last, lie ordered the royal
headsman to be summoned. With this
official the Cardinal had a long conference.
The executioner gave an inventory of all the
racks and instruments of torture on hand.
Savelli selected such as suited his purpose,1
8

CoUNTE      PLoTs.     '            57
and ordered him to have them removed from
Ithe torture chamber in the castle, to the
-great audience hallof the convent, and there
kept in readiness. Finally, the executioner
was bid to ettend in his official garb, next
morning, at the convent.
The reader will have seen, that Savelli
was determined to introduce the Inquisition
in style, as the present day would call it.--
Don Antonio had given him an order placing
at his disposition everything he might re-
quire,for the execution of his project. Her-
nando was conducted to prison.
We look into a small dark vault. The
arches that formed the ceiling seemed ready
to break down with their own heavy weight.
From the keystones upon the walls and the
ceiling, grinned faces, that seemed to wear
a demoniac smile, as the light of the single
torch, which illumined the vault, rose and
fell. The shadows slept thickin the corners.
The floor was composed of large solid blocks
of stone. A table, hewed from the same ma-
terial, stood in the midst of thO vault. Up-
on an iron spike, that projected from the
stony slab of the table, stuck a smoky torch,
that cast a flickering light upon the scene.
Near the ceiling was a round aperture
through the thick walls. The diameter of
this air hole might have been about seven
inches.  But its dimensions were still di-
minished by a strong iron bar that divided
the air hole into halves. The external mouth
of this hole opened upon the pavement of a
chapel, which, again, by open windows,
communicated with the court yard of the
convent of Santa Cruz. The vaults, used
sometimes for penitential exercises and
punishments of transgressing monks, had
been appropriated by Cardinal Savelli; they
were now prisons of the Inquisition. In the
vault above described, Hernando was placed.
The smoky light leaped over his form, as he
lay stretched upon the straw that had been
heaped up in one corner. All waq silent,
very silent.
What different kinds of silence exist!-
There is the sweet quiet of the summer
noon, under green leaves, and a dreamy
sky, with flowers and bees, and velvetty
grass around you, all quiet, sweetly quiet.-


58            THE 1ATAL, ECRRT,

Then there is the solemn quiet of the pale cies, the lightest touch, or the least noise
moon and the star-lit sky.  There is the will often instantly dispel the creations of
breezy quiet of the early morn, so fresh and imagination, and, restore man to a proper
rosy. There is the dreadful quiet of the perception of surrounding circumstances.
storm, to be followed by bellowing thun- It was so in this case. All the wild fancies
ders. We have also the quiet of the rich that overshadowed Hernando's brain vanish.
library; the quiet of the lofty hall, and the ed, at the slight touch of a heavy body, and
silence of the prison. How close, confined, the sound of its falling upon the floor. He-,
dreadfully quiet the latter is, only those can started up. Taking the torch from the table,
conjecture, who have seen one of those he turned its light upon the floor, and pick.
ancient ruins designed for prisons, by for- ed Op the object which had fallen.
mer generations. In early college days, I  It was a piece of lead, with a paper tied
was once, for lessons neglected, confined in around it. Evidently some one had thrown
the career* of the college. A after carving it through the narrow airhole into the cell.
my name upon the walls, that were covered Hernando unrolled the paper, and found
over and over with names and initials, I felt written thereon the words:
so lonely. This loneliness was soon suc-  "Be very careful. Watchful eyes are
ceeded by a wild anger, and irritation at the constantly observing you through crevices,
confinement. I tore my hands in vain en- and apertures. Every word and look will
deavors to pull away the gratings of the be brought up against you, at your trial.
windows and the locks of the door. Again, Be ready this night to receive a friend."
exhausted by these efforts, I lay down to  Who had written this? to whom could he
suffer, for the remainder of the time, all the attribute, friendship enough to hazard a vis.
dreadful prison quiet, which almost mad. it, in his present circumstances. He threw
dens the mind. I afterwards took good care himself upon his bed of straw and buried in
not to enter the career again.         sleep the pains of his heart, and the reflee-
Hernando now suffered all the influence tions of his mind.
of this silence. It poured the sound of his  Three hours passed. - The door of the
brother's voice into his ears. It roused the vault opened and a man of high bearing, in
dreadful scene of his crime from the bed of the attireof the monksof SantaCruz, entered.
memory. It stirred anew the mighty re-   He slowly crept up to the straw bed, and
morse that crushed his heart. le epuId en- laid his 'cold hand upon the young man's
dure it no longer. Wildly the young man brow. Hernando awoke with a-start.
sprang up.f Was it a dream? The face of   "Softly," whispered the stranger, "we
his brother seemed to look at him from the must converse in darkness."  And he
opposite corner. He threw himself upon it, extinguished the torch.
and fell against the rough walls It was but
a creation of his fancy. 'He rose again and        CHAPTER XV.
see! upon the wall flashed the flickering  DON DI EGO' s ADVN TU R.
light, and high on one of the arches, Her- Don Diego went down the street, and then
nando saw himself dashing Enrique down! abruptly turning, entered a small,narrow al-
Down he seemed to come, down along the ley, which conducted him to the suburbs
walls; the floor opened;still Enrique was fal- of the city. Lisbon is built along the river
ling, falling far, far down.           Tagus, and though broad in some parts, at
With a cry of anguish.Hernando sank upon others shrinks to very narrow dimensions.
the tsble. He was again startled by some- It was at one of those points where the city
thing heavy, that fell upon his forehead-  could be crossed in fifteen minutes, that
When one is writhing under some dread- Don Diego entered the alley which took hit
ful dream, or oppressed by harrassing fan- to the suburbs.
*A cell used for the purpose of punishing  Donna Gloria, i the guise of Fidaro, clos-
idleness and bad conduct.              ly followed him.

r

OR, PLOTS AND         COUNTuRPLOTS.                       59
He stopped before an old and rambling  He grasped it, and rapidly ascended to
ninsion, which stood upon the slope. of the the window, where his neck was immeliate-
Western hill. The moon shone fully upon ly looked in the white arms of the lady.
it,- lighting up the dark walls, and verdant Don Diego entered the room, without further
gardens. The streets were deserted. Silence, accident, than the precipitation of a flower-
only interrupted by the lazy chirping of a pot, which was dashed into fragments at the
few birds, and the distant murmurs of the feet of Gloria.
Tagus, hung over the city. Now and then, "So the hopes I formed this evening ar
the cheering bark of a dog broke on the broken to pieces," sighed Gloria and sank
quiet of night.                        to the ground. The refreshing breath of
Don.Diego unlatched a gate, which opened the night breeze revived her; slowly she
upon. a broad gravel walk, leading to the rose, and walked around to the side of the
front entrance of the mansion, and entered, house where some steps led to the terrace.
followed by Gloria. They did not proceed She ascended them and returned to the rear
up the walk, but turned into a small path, of the house. Grasping the rope ladder she
that skirted the walls and led to the rear of fastened the lower end to the ground, to
the house.'steady it. Then ascending with difficult
"Stay here, Fidaro," said Don Diego, "and                        .     i   '
- she looked through the open window upon
if you see any one approaching, or any signs thecoue. they wee ecliingwupon
of awaking within the house e  notice the couple. 'They were reclining upon a
Swing                     give me      small divan, their faces turned from the win-
by whistling."I dow. This gave Gloib                         tcacet     bev
Gloria placed herself beneath a tree, while dow. thogaexpora i  chance to observe
Don Diego, with the aid of certain pr-  them, without exposing herself to discovery.
tions, and sculptured ornaments climbed , The lady might have entered her eigh-
upon a kind of terrace which jutted out teenth year. Her complexion was soft and
from the verandah. I have already re- transparent. Her eyes bright and brown;
marked, that the old houses of Lisbon were her hair dark, and of the same color with
0   the eye.I     ugdw      e   ekcnr
then built so that the upper stories projec- h  yes. It hung down her neck contras-
ted, to some distance, beyond the lower and tng with its whiteness, and shone with an
over the roof of theverandah. Thatwindow auburn golden sheen where the light struck
which was above the point where Don Diego it.oHer features were small and an embodi-
stood, emitted a feeble gleam of light. I mont of voluptuous beauty.
was adorned on the outside b; a small shelf  She rested upon her lover's bosom; his
laden with fitverpots, and vases full of head, all tossing with dark curls, was bowed
creepers whose luxuriant branches, hung over her, and his lips kissed with eager
around the.window panes. A silken cord pleasure her mouth, eyes and forehead.
was attached to a large rose bush upon the  They conversed in that soft, low and
shelf, and hung down to the terrace. Don sweettone which is so peculiarly adopted
Diego seized the cord, and pulling it several to the dear nothings which lovers say to
times, caused the roses to beat against the each other. There is a vital point m ha-
window above.                           man feeling, as well as in the human body.
The window was opened hastily, and the This vital point in the body if struck extin-
head of a lady became visible from between guighes life at once. If this vital point of
the flowers and leaves. She looked beauti- any feeling or passion is touched, that feel-
ful, as she bent down and exclaimed: ing or passion ceases to exist any longer .
"You have come, dearest !"           Gloria still continued to nourish a faint
"I have,-Miranda. Throw  the' ladder !" but lasting spark of love for Don Diego,
replied Don Diego. in her bosom. Bit now, the vital point
The lady disappeared for a few moments of that passion was pierced-her love ceased
and, returning to the window, threw a lad- to exist. Calmly, quietly,'she descended and
der constructed of silken cords,to the young walking around the house she was about to
noble.                                 go out into the street, when she perceived


60                       THE FATA L       EftCRET,
an old man, at a window,cealmly looking Nuna, still holding to Don Diego with one
out upon the sky.                     hand, dropped the other, in astonishment at
She imagined immediately that this must his daughter's calm impudent tone. He was
be thefather of the young lady, andprompt- about to utter a terrible course upon her,
hate, stopped, and called to him.  when she calmly, and rapidly continued:
What do you do at this time in my gar  "Are you astonished that I have a lover?
den, and what do you wish," inquired the What maiden in all Spain has not a gallant ?
old gentleman, startled and surprised.  And why do you enter my chamber at mid.
"There is a young noble in your daugh- night, and conduct yourself so noisily? You
term's chamber, making love to her, Sir Nuna probably wih to arouse the servants that
di Peres," cried Gloria in reply. The old my fault  a\be trumpeted through the
man often attended her balls, and she knew city. Is this pro  nd wise? Better for
him well,                             you to have retired at once, and thought of' a
"You lie, caitiff!" was the angry reply son-in-law to cover my fault. For Don Di3-
"Ascertain 'the truth, by entering your go is as good as married to another, andI
daughter's room I"                    must be a wife very soon, or bury the effects
"It is false I"                    of my fault in the Tagus."
"Act as seems best to you I" said Gloria-  All this was said so calmly, in a voice of
We may disbelieve a thing, still we prefer reasoning and argument, that the spectators,
to be certain about it, and assure ourselves except Don Diego, who kiew his paramour
either of its truth or falsehood.     well, were transfixed with astonishment.
It was so with the Sir of Perez. He rose "What do you say ?" inquired Sir Nuna,
and quickly -proceeded to his daughter's trembling.
room. Gloria as quickly returned to the  itI-say to you, let these young men retire,
window by the rope ladder.            and remain here, to consult with me on the
Sir Nnadi Perehad surprised the ov  necessary steps to be taken now."
Miranda lay weeping on the floor, thrown  Great drops of sweat rolled from the brow
there by te indignant father, and Don Die- oft drnolearlledftheiaon
go stood near the window defending himself of the old noble, as he realized the situation
against the furious attacks of the old man.  "Go," said he to Diego, "go I
Gloria beheld all this from the window'  "Good night, my dear, dear Diego I" said
She hastily entered and threw herself be- Miranda to her lover, embracing him once
tween Diego and Sir Nuna; nturged by more.                  e
love, but the fear that Don Diego might be Nuna fell upon the divan, helpless and
snatched from her own revenging arm.  weak as a child.
"Out of my way page or I will run you Diego descended the rope ladder, followed
through," cried the old man, holding hisDigdecndthroeldrflwd
glittering sword atGloris breast, who was by Gloria.  They walked away, neither
unarmed.                             speaking, Don Diego buried in reflections,
Donna Gloria was undecided, and the and Gloria waiting for a chance to escape,
angry 'father already aimed his stab at her, and return to her home in the pavilion..
when Miranda rose and held her parent's  Ere we accompany them, let us return to
arm.                                  Don Nuna di Perez and his daughter.
All this passed in a moment. Don Diego  Donna Miranda took a seat at the side of
- mounted the widow and would have es. her father upon the divan. She was as
caped, had notSir Nuna torn himself from calm and beautiful as ever. The events of
-his daughter's grasp, and thrown upon Don the night had not paled her cheek, nor dim-
Diego.                                med the soft luster of her velvetty, brown
Again, Miranda fell upon his arm as he eye.
raised his sword. '                     Her father, on the contrary, had suffered
"Silence," she said in a calm, sang froid unsufferable agony. He was of one of the
tone. "What excites you thus, father ?"  oldest and proudest houses in Portugal. His

I

I

On, PoTS AND 4
family, his'station, the history of his house,
were, the darlings of his heart. To be an
or ment to that family, to adorn that sta-
tion) nd worthily to continue that history,
were e aims of his life. His daughter was
his only child. She was once destined to
bear the honors of his house, perhaps, by a
noble alliance, to add nw titles and wealth
to it. So many proud hopes had the san-
guine father founded upon Miranda, when
he saw her grow up in beauty, and endowed
with a more than ordinary share of wisdom.
He had given her an education extraordi-
nary even for a princess, at that time. After
acquiring all the accomplishments usual to
ladies of Portugal, she was sent in the train
of the present queen dowager to the lively
and brilliant court of Spain. Miranda had
also visited the voluptuous and vicious court
of Francis I, and finally returned to ?ortu-
gal-a lady of the court, with beauty, ac-
complishments and worldly wisdom-but
without the least particle of virtue, piety, and
nobleness.
I Don Nuna was dizzy with looking at his
misfortune. He could not believe it, that
the fair creature now sitting at his side, and
smiling so calmly, had dishonored his house,
and was in fact a thing the world scorns and
scoffs at.
When he had partially recovered, Don
Nuna inquired in a broken voice:
" But, Donna, if no husband will be found
to cover your shame?"
"Then a convent will! The family of
Perez shall not be dishonored by me ! I am
too proud of my name to make itea scoff and
by word to the rabble !" replied Miranda,
taking up a magnificent fan of ostrich
feathers.
" But whom do you propose to marry ?"
inquired again the old noble.
1 "Why," replied the lady, "there is my
cousin.'
" The governor of the East India sta-
tions?"
"CorrectI he is expected to return to-
morrow."
" Will he marry you?"
"Do you doubt it?" and the lady threw a
look into a splendid mirror at the foot of her
bed..

0OUNTEiPLoTs.                       61
" Miranda, Miranda! I can not believe
that all this is true, It seems to me like a
hideous illusion, a terrible ' nightmare. It
can not be soI"I
" But Don Nuna, Iassure you that hoth-
ing can be more true, than that I have a
lover, whose embrace have unfortunately
made me a mother. This unfortunate cir-
cumstance forces me either to marty soon,
or to enter a convent.  I have decided for
the first," and Miranda arranged her snowy
robe in graceful folds.
The old man was again composed.
91 will aid you in your purpose, for the
sake of the name you bear. But remember,"
he added fiercely, " if you are not married,
or a nun ere the consequences of your fault
apppear, I will redeem the honor of our
house, thou.'h it should cost the life of my
-" he hesitated," -of you, lady !"
Don Nuna made a grave bow, and left the
apartment.
"After all not so bad I" murmured Mi-
randa, "I shall marry my cousin, and con-
tinue to keep my lovers. How disagreeable
that my father should disturb us! He might
have retired discreetly, when he saw Don
Diego. But these Portuguese have such ex-
alted notions of morality. So much behind
the times."
A half an hour afterwards the noble lady
had retired to her couch to sleep sweetly,
and dream of past and future pleasures.
Her father returned to his apartment and
sat down, with his brain frozen to ice, his
heart heavy as lead, his blood turned to
water, and his muscles rigid. There he sat
throughout the long dreary nightmotionless.
The morning mounted the skies, and the
golden beams of the sun fell upon the old
man.- Oh! how sadly had the events of one
night changed himI His proud head was
bowed, his florid face pqle as ashes; his
dark and lively eyes, sunken and surrounded
by tinges of rusty red; his dignified mien
had given away to a desponding, heartbrdken
look of despair.
Don Diego walked rapidly' through the
streets, lost in thought. He had reached the
palace di Azambuja before he remarked that
he was alone.-.

4
r


62                       THE   FATA
"The page may have'gone somewhere,"
he mused, and dismissing the eireumstance
from his mind, enteredthe palace,andsought
his bed.
Don Diego had loved too much, and too
easily to grieve deeply about the discovery
of his amour with Miranda. Especially since
he saw how calmly the young lady bore it.
Donna Gloria had separated from Diego
a few steps ' from the palace di Azambuja,
and retreating into a doorway, waited until
the young noble had disappeared beneath
the stately doorway. Then she continued to
walk along the street, unconscious of where
it led to. For Gloria was so ignorant of the
streets of Lisbon, that it was impossible for
her to return to the palace without a guide.
But where could a guide be found? Gloria
was perplexed. She looked     and down.
All empty, not being to bseen upon the
streets.(
Sheb thought erself of the river, which
passed by the pa ace. So she turned down
the street and descended the declivity, until
she arrived at the water. Along the river
were at that time some of the vilest, lowest
inns, where sailors and negroes rioted in dirt
and filthy wine. From the windows and
doors of these inns, light shone out upon the
street. Noise and sounds of quarrelling re.
souded through the night. Men drunk
lay sleepingin the soft mud. Others growled
andeursed, as they tottered around. Anon
angry voices were loud in altercation, and
theerash of falling tables and chairs, bespoke
scenes of violence. Gloria, the highborn
lady, who was used to silk, and gems, and
gilding and marble, to scenes of beauty and
words of wit and elegance, was thus sudden-
ly thrown into the vilest part of a great city.
Some drunken sailors had perceived her and
staggered towards the trembling lady.
"Well youngster," cried one, "do you not
long for the merry life of a sailor ?"
"1He says he wants to serve under me,"
growled a boatswain, taking hold of Gloria's
arm.
"Let me proceed on my way," begged the
lady, earnestly shaking off the boatswain's
grasp.
"What a tender voice," laughed another

L SE CRE T,
sailor; "take off your mask, my merry boy,"
and he endeavored to tear it from the lady's
face.
Wild with fear Gloria tore away, leaving
the mask in his hands. Away she ran,down
the street with the rapidity of the frighted
hare. Behind her sounded the shouts of the
sailors. She saw nothing, heard nothing,
but ran on with all her strength; suddenly
she ran against some one, and with such
suddenness and force that the shock threw
her upon the ground. There she lay gas-
ping for breath.
The man she had run against,kindly bent
over her and inquired:
"Are you hurt boy?"
"No," replied Gloria.
The man assisted her to rise, and then
turning the light of the dark lantern he car-
ried, full upon her face exclaimed:
" The Countess di Voga!"
The light had also fallen upon his features,
and Donna Gloria in her turn recognised,
Pater Marcus.'
" Conduct me home, father, if you please,'
said Gloria and took the Pater's hand.
Father Marcus conducted her to the sum-
mer pavilion in silence.
CHAPTER        XVI.
JOY IN THE DUNGEON.
"Who are you ?" inquired Hernando, sitting
up,upon the heap of straw serving him for a
bed.         .
"A friend, young man; but let us con-
verse in whispers. Although the guards,
and monks are secured by a sleeping draught,
one can not be too cautious, in circumstan-
ces like these."
"It is well enough for you to call yourself
a friend. But what assures me that you are
not one of the spies of the Inquisition ?"
'- Was it not I myself, who drew your at-
tention to these spies in my letter?" inquir-
ed the stranger.
" Then the whole may be a plan to decoy
me into your traps. If I should trust you
let me see you, and know who you are ?"
"Young man, I fear that you are over
cautious. In the dungeons of the Inquisi-
tion, under a charge well established and

O a, PLOTS AND        COUNTERPLOTS.                       63
proved, with the doom of a terrible death . "Hasten, young man, I will liberate you.
hanging over you, you speak as if you had Follow me ere the time, when escape is yet
your choice of friends, and means to es- possible, has passed. ComeI"
cape." The visitor said this in a strongly "Stay priest. I will not follow you. I
reproving voice, as if displeased with Her- have"committed a hideous crime, and must
nondo.                                 suffer the punishment. I will submit to be
"One can not be'over cautious in these tortured and burned."
circumstances/you said a few moments ago.  "What," cried the priest, turning around,
However should I trust you, let me see your "can Hernando da Costa as an Israelite be-
face."                                 lieve that the writing of those scrolls is a
"There will be no danger I hope, in this crime ?"
light," replied the stranger. "I will grant  "These  expressions,-your behavior,-
what you ask."  He fumbled in his pockets your professed intentions,-all are so at va-
for means to strike a light.           riance with your character, priest, that I
When the conversation thus ceased for a can scarcely believe my senses. Are you
few moments, the quiet an&amp; darkness again the secretary of the Cardinal, and intend to
brought on a fit of Hernando's madness. aid my escape ?"
The visitor, while opening the side of a dark  " Your senses inform you rightly. I am
lantern, he had brought along, was suddenly the secretary-I will aid your escape. Ac-
startled, by hearing a moan fromHernando's cept my help without reflecting on my rea-
bed. This was quickly followed by mad sons for so acting.. Quickly !"
dries: "Hold him, hold himI"  "Come up  "No priest.. I am dying of remorse. Not
in, come up again, dear brother I Do for the act of writing the scrolls, as you
no fall Enrique ! Enrique! Enrique !" , seem to think, but for the deadliest, blackest
Th   moaned and cried Hernando. The crime, that ever soiled the soul of man.
strange hastily struck fire, and,lighting his Away priest !  Hernando suffers justly;
darklanter  turned its focus upon the bed. thanks for your kindness. Leave me now to
Hernando, stoo  here grasping the shadows my fate."
with his hands, while the long hair gave him  "You are mad," cried the secretary. "You
a terrible appearance as it stood upon his not only condemn yourself, to the stake, but
sweating brow. The stranger stepped up to also your innocent brother!"
idimand grasped his wrist:                "My brother I"
"If this occurs again, I shall leave you to  "Yes, your brother ! who is imprisoned
your fate! What strange madness has pos in the next vault. And do you know for
sessed you ?" he whispered angrily. Her. what ? 'For his connection with you! Fpr---"
nando became again calm.                 Hernando had leaped 4    anid with fea-
The stranger threw  back his hood. It tures in which despair strugg d with wild
was Father Domingo, the secretary of his flashes of joyous expectation, seized the
Eminence the Cardinal Savelli.         Jesuit by his coat, with both hands, and in.
"And you have come to saveme ?" Inquir. terrupted him, uttering quickly and hoarse.
ed Hernando scornfully.                ly:
"Even I. What else brings me here to    "My brother Enrique in prison here f
night?"                                Do you play with my heart, man!"
. It is as I thought Oh, I know of Jesuit "It is a sad truth, that your brother -has
wiles I they ruined our brothers in Spain.' been imprisoned, on suspicion of being your
"iCan anything criminate you more yet? accomplice."---
Are you not doomed to death and torture?  "For old's sake, for the sake of all that
Elave you not confessed your crime? What, is holy and Aear, tell me," cried Hernando
hen, do you suspect me of, in coming throwing himself at the Jesuit's feet, "tell
here ?"                                me that Enrique is alive!"
Hernando was silent.                   "Surely he is alive  but in prison !" re-

i
i
t
t
l
t
r

4,


1

64                       Tax    FArATA
plied Father Domingo, in a tone of irritated
astonishment.
"Then he lives, and is near us I"
"We have no time, to waste in this idle
bandinage of useleps words. Why should
your brother not live? Be like a man and
follow meI"
"It is false; it can not be true ! Enrique
is dea(I You deceive me, priest; I will not
follow you I" Yet Hernando said this, in
a voice showing that he expected, hoped, and
wished to be contradiced.
"Obstinate youth I follow me, and in a
momentyou will be in the nextvault, There.
you can see, hear and speak to your brother.
For I see,nothing else will convince you that
he is alive, although I see not the slightest
reason why he should be dead."
Taking up his lantern, father Domingo
left the vault, followed by Hernando. The
young man scarcely breathed, so intense
were the doubts, hopes and fears that agita-
ted his bosom.
They proceeded about twenty paces along
a low vaulted passage, and stopped before a
door of iron,.like that of the cell, which they
had just left. The priest unlocked it.
Disturbed by the noise, the prisoner leap-
ed up and cried:
"Who are ye ? what do you want?"
Hernando gave a cry, a moan of joy, and
the priest, turning the beams of the dark
lantern into the vault, illuminated the form
of AriguelI
He stood erect, pale, but beautiful as ever,
his hair, floating unarravged over his shoul.
den. Hernando gave a sigh of joy, of in.
tense relief. Things swam before his
eyes, dizziness overcame him, and he sunk
fainting at the feet of Father Domingo.
When a dropsical man has been tapped
the water accumulated in his body,diseharg.
ed, the sudden-relief from the pain and un-
easiness which it occasions ,him, produces
fainting. The change is too quick. Phy-
sicians are, therefore, careful to evacuate
the water in such cases, gradually.
When tooquick a change from joy to grief,
or from sorrow to gladness is felt in the
heart, the same effect is produced.
The priest bent down and raised Hernan

L SECRET,

do's head. The fainting was but moment.
ry; almost immediately Hernando recovered
again. Rising, he threw himself at the feet
of the trembling Enrique.
Let the reader portray to himself, the
dark vault, the stream of dim light from the
lantern, the figure of the priest, large and
gloomy, standing at the door. In the low,
heavy vault, the fair, beautiful Enrique, and
at his feet, sobbing with joy, Hernando.h,
"Forgive me, my brother, forgive! I have
suffered awfully. I have been punished ter-
ribly ! forgive me, my brother I"
Enrique slowly bent over his brother, and
kissed his forehead.
" Brother, I ibrgive you! Come to my
bosom,Hernando I,
The two brothers embraced.
"1I do not understand this. I will ask an
explanation at some future time. Now we
must hasten not to lose all chance of esespe.
Follow mel" said the priest. The two broth
ers arm in arm followed his steps. He led
them to one end of the passage, and there
touching a spring, turned a large stone
aside from its position. Through the dark
opening, the Jesuit followed by the brothers
crept, and stood in a damp, low, apartment
of circular form. Around the walls were
small niches, with heavy pillars between
them. In each of the niches, was the Agure
of a coffin in raised stones.
" Formerly, nuns occupied this convent.
In these niches, those who broke the vows
of celibacy were immured. They died of
hunger and want of air," said their guide
to the brothers. Both shuddered.
" How terrible is the vengeance of the
Church," whispered Enrique.
Meanwhile the Jesuit proceeded to one of
the niches, and opened a small door that
seemed to lead into one of the pillars. The
. pillar was hollow and contained the landing
place of a flight of steps. They closed the
. door again, and ascended the steps.
"Now hasten," said Domingo, still walk-
ing quickly in advance.
The brothers kept behind him. They as.
ended gradually, by a long and narrow pas-
sage. The floor was streaming with water.
The roof was loose and crumbling. At last

On, PLOTS AND. COUN TERPLOTS.

65

another door admitted them to the chapel  "My work, this night," he said, "is not
of the royal palace. They entered it.   ended by liberating you, and placing you in
"You will find, gowns and cowls, in the safety. I h..ve another task.: I must in-
sacristy," said the priest. "Att're yourselves form you of a mission, which the Hebrews
as monks,that we may pass unchallenged any of Lisbon intrust to you. They have deter-
prying guards."                         mined to send you to Rome."
The brothers did so. Hernando supreme-  " To RomeI" cried both.
ly happy in being free from guilt and dead-  "And for what purpose ?" added Hernan-
ly sin, Enrique overjoyed also in having do.
found again the brother of formeryears. "To request the Pope's absolution for Wl
When they had assumed the cowls, the past sinsof the New Christians. Unless you
priest extinguished his dark lantern, and un. succeed in obtaining this, the Inquisition
barring a side door of the chapel, went out, will destroy them, root and branch. Thie
accompanied by the two brothers. The pre. 'is absolutely necessary, if the Israelites
einets of the palace were very dark, but shouldcontinue to reside in Portugal."
many bright stars smiled from the blue sky.  " But how do we know that all this is so
The bells of the city called two o'clock in excuse me,but that you, the secretary of the
their musical voices-                   grand Inquisitor, should  act thusron the.
The Jesuit led them through the gardens, part of the Israelites seems-"
and out into the streets. le took such pre- "Seems to you suspicious ? You ate
cautions in choosing ways, that no one ob- right. 'But here is an order from Don LioW
served the fugitives. They arrived, after nel Dian commanding you to believe me,
a small walk, at an obscure house, standing and obey my orders," and he handed -a pa-
in the bottom of a court. The priest knock- per to the brothers, who looked upon it, and
ed. The door was immediately opened by then kissed the signature.
a servant.. They entered the house. The   " You see that I am empowered by your
rooms were furnished with a degree of com- friends and co religionists to act as I do.
fort and wealth, which the exterior gave no Besides there is no more safety at present
evidence of. The Jesuit requested the broth- for you in Portugal. Your wild conduct-and
ers to be seated, and sounded a rattle. In acts, Hernando, have been instrumental i
a few minutes a collation was served up.  establishing the Inquisition !"  The young
"Eat, eat," said the priest, "it is pure and man hung his head.
prepared according to the laws of Judah." " It is but proper," continued the priest
The brothers looked at each other in as- "that you should try to prevent its evil ef-
tomishment-fecs now. The Inquisition is like a tigd-t
However they were hungry,and, therefore, when it has once lapped blood, its ferocity'
paused not, but fully enjoyed the good cheer. awakens, and there is no satisfyingthe stake
A beautiful girl entered and brought the and torture. You will go to Rome, and do-
wine.                                   mand an audience of the Pope. There you
"Retire, my daughter," said the priest, "I :will confess the backsliding of the. New
thought you were long since at rest." Christians, and pray for absolution. I had
"I waited for you, dear father," replied 'no doubt that it will be granted to you.
the girl, modestly casting down her eyes and Here are further instructions," and he gave
retiring-a parcel of papers, to Hernando, "and here
The brothers were evidently destined to' are letters and recommendations to influen-A
constant astonishment during that night tial Israelites, and to two Cardinals."
Father!" "Iftaughter!" Was the priest the He gave Hernando some letters and par-
miaiden's parent, or only her spiritual fath- eels, tied with a silver cord, and sealed with
er ?   -                               white -wax.
After they had eaten, the Jesuit sat down,  Then stepping to a closet, he unlocked it
and addressed them,                    and took a full leather bag therefrom.
9

0


66                        THE    FATA
"Here,"he said, "is money to defray your
expenses. And now, having instructed you
regarding your mission, let us mount."
"But where are' horses ?" inquired En.
rique.
"$Come '
They followed the priest into a stable at
the opening of the court, at the bottom of
which, the house stood. Three fine horses
were there. They mounted and rode toward
Belem. Not far beyond the village they
stopped. A boat awaited them in the midst
of the river. At a sign from the priest it
came on shore and received the brothers.
"This boat will take you on board of a
ship, which will not stars away before to.
morrow.' To night, I will visit you on board
the ship and convey to you letters from the
Cardinal Georgio to his Holiness. Farewell,
till then."
The priest turned his horse's head and re-
turned to the city.              I
The sailors whipped the water with their
long oars and the boat flew over the waving
surface to the side of a large Duteh built
vessel, that lay beyond Belem in a small
harbor, all concealed and surrounded by
rocks. Hernando and Enrique mounted the
deck, and were kindly received by Mynheer
Sporaso, the captain.
He immediately explained that he was a
Spanish Israelite escaped to Holland. He
had formerly been in the Spanish navy, and
a companion of Captain da Costa the father
of Hernando and Enrique.
He now continued his old trade of seafa-
ring in the merchant service of Holland. For
the sake of the father, he received the young
men in a very affectionate manner. They
entered the cabin to enjoy some rest after
the exhausting events of the night.
Enrique communicated, next morning, to
his brother, the manner of his escape from
death. We will acquaint the reader with it
in a few words.
When Enrique was thrown from the bal-
cony of castle Salenga, he fellinto the water
Happily a fisherman's bark lay at the foot of
the cliff,shaded from the sun by its overhang-
ingtop. When the fisherman saw Enrique fall
he immediately approached, and succeeded

'-I

L SECRET,

in drawing him from the waves.-The young
man had fainted. The fisherman took him
to the town of Peniche, from whence after a
slight illness, which lasted several days, he
returned to Salonga. Hernando wasalready
away; Enrique fell now into a severe fever,
during which he was attended by the old
dame Margarita. When sufficiently recover-
ed, he returned to Lisbon, taking the old
dame along, to restore her to the countess
Solani. But before reaching the city he was
arrested, on suspicion of being an accom-
plice of his brother Hernando. Dame Mar.
garita Flunoz was also arrested, being found
in his company. Both were imprisoned in
vaults near Hernando's prison. What fur.
there occurred in regard to Enrique we know.
Of the venerable virgin Margarita, we shall
relate anon.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE KING AND THE FAVORITE.
When Gloria had entered her apartments,
Father Marcus inquired:
"Well lady, how happened it that I found,
you lost among the streets, attired in men's
clothes, and so long after the conspirators
had dispersed ?"
"1I will tell you, father," replied Gloria.
"For certain purposes, I found it advisable
to follow the duke di Azambuja into his pal-
ace. From thence, it was impossible for me
to escape again, without recognition, in the
monk's gown. 1, therefore, entered one of
the page's rooms and changed my habit, ma-
king use of his wardrobe."
"But without cowl, your face gould have
betrayed you! You deceive le, lady, I
think."
A flush mounted to Gloria's brow.
"You dare say this to my face !" she
cried; but then feeling how much she was
obliged to satisfy the priest to prevent pre-
mature disclosures, she added:
"Your suspicions are natural. But I
wore a mask Searching for my way along the
river, I was accosted by some rough sailors,,
who tore my mask away. ThenI led, and
happily met you."
" Met me with the force of a cannon -ball,"
said father Marcus.

I

OR, PLOTS AND
"But found it an impossibility to prostrate
such a worthy pillar of the Church, as you
are?" cried Gloria, laughing. "Well what
have you seen at the meeting ?" she further
inquired.
"All," was the reply. "LadyI we must
acquaint the King with the existence of this
plot. Having promised secresy to you I can
not act without your permission. Best it
would be, for you to inform his majesty, and
then refer him to me for particulars," added
father Marcus.
"1I will do as you advise," replied Gloria,
"but not yet."
"If we delay, the information may come
too late."
" His majesty shall know all within three
days. Will this do?"
"PerfectlyI Good night, Countess."
"The priest retired, and Gloria entered
her sleeping apartment.
Fidaro had waited and waited, until late
at night. Still the Countes had not return-
ed. At last he fell asleep. When Glo-
ria entered the outer apartments, her'
conversation with the priest awakened him.
He listened and waited. Finally the priest
departed, and Fidaro, who expected to see
the lady enter, saw the door open. But it
was not the Countess, but a man, with his
hat drawn far over his brows, that stood be-
fore him.
The reader will recollect that Gloria was
disguised in male attire. But Fidaro knew
it not. Jealousy like a poisoned dagger pier.
ced his heart. With a cry of rage he sprang
at the man, and bore him to the earth.
" What brought you here ?" he inquired,
in a huskyovoice, full of wrath, holding his
dagger at Gloria's throat.
" Do you not know me,Fidaro ?" inquired
the countess.
In a Moment he had released her, lifted
her from the floor, and pressed her to his
heart. Unable to resist,Gloria resigned her-
self to hispassionate kisses. When a young
lover has once touched the lips of his be-
loved, he is in no kaste to leave off kis-
sing. Gloria found itatlastnecessary to say:
" Fidaro, leave meI what madness posses-
see you?"

COU N TERP LOTS.                    67
Fidaro pressed her still closer to his bo.
som.
"Page, I command you to cease! Do you
hear me!"
Fidaro released her from his arms. There
is a fire in the embraces of youth, which,
to say, is contagious. We learn that the
embraces of Prometheus warmed a marble
statue to life and love. - The embraces of Fi-
daro at least caused a small feeling of pity
and liking for him in 'the heart of Gloria.'
" Fidaro," shesaid, " I have admitted you
to my confidence, and hope you will con-
duct yourself accAdingly. A gentleman
admitted to a lady's chamber, under these
circumstances, will conduct himself at night
and alone, in the same way as he would at
noon, when she is surrounded by servants."
" Oh! lady, be not offended! my passion
got the better of my reason."
" I am not offended. But what was done
in a moment of passion, must not be repea-
ted."
Fidaro's face fell. His .eyes rested sor-
rowfully upon the floor.
"1I have assumed these clothes in the pal-
ace di Azambuja, and accompanied Don
Diego to night, in your stead. The letters
are delivered. Go home now, and, return
tomorrow for these clothes."
The page was reluctant to leave.
" Go," and Gloria preceded him, an&amp;
opened the secret door.
Fidaro looked so desponding, that the
Countess smiled kindly upon him, and gave
him her hand to kiss as he went away.
When Fidaro had gone Gloria retired to
bed.
There was one person however, in the
summer pavilion, whose eyes closed not in
sleep that night. There was one whose bo-
som felt the pains of deceived love, inwhose.
heart jealousy covered affection with black
spots of decay.
It was Maria Flanos. With the curiosity
so natural to women, and to chambermaida
in particular, she had arisen from her bed,
when she heard the sounds of conversation
in her mistress' apartment, and listened out
side the door.
She saw enough to convince her ;hat Fi-


I:

TisE FATAL SECRET,

68

daro was faithless, and to let her suspect silver embroidery. A diadem of jewels was
that Gloria was'not true to the king.  entwined in her dark tresses. Like to all
When a woman is jealous, she is a fox in persons of stately figure and splendid pro-
einning, a wounded tiger in her thirst for portions, the hoops, which were then used
revenge. Maria retired to her bed to suffer to expand the skirts, suited her admirably,
the torments of disappointed love, and to and gave dignity to her appearance.
plan schemes to make others suffer likewise.  The king was wont to be exceedingly po-
1 Isashe notsatisfied with seeing a king at lite in the presence of Donna Gloria. But
her feet? Must she rob me too, of the only now he removed not his hat, and, without
heart I prize?- But she will find, that even even turning to the Countess, said:
I- ean- upset her. She shall not have the  "Repeat your tale, girl, and let us hear
pleasure of-'" here the maiden began to whatmadam has to say to it."
cry and-sob.                             Without heeding the surprised and fla-
It was the evening of the second day,when ming glances ofGloria, Maria repeated what
the-king visited Gloria. His majesty had she had told the king.
dismissed his suite, and was about entering  Gloria listened calmly.
the apartments of the Countess di Voga  "Well, sire ?" she inquired when Maria
when Maria Flunoz,who had waited for him, had ceased.
appeared and, throwing herself upon her  "Well Countess I" shouted the king, who
knees, said tremblingly:               meanwhile had paced the apartment, with
"Pardon me, sir; but I have something of hasty impatient steps, and now stopped short
importan&amp;i-to communicate."          - opposite to Gloria, "What have you to say
"Tell it to-ie hereafter, fair child," said to this?"
the king, endeavoring to pass, for he was  "That it is true !" replied the lady.
eager to see Gloria.                     "You acknowledge then to have had
But Maria maintained her position and man in your bedchamber, at two o'clock last
repeated:                              night ?"
"It is perhaps of importance that your  "Not only this, but more; I have had two
majesty should hear it now."           men there."
f Well then," said Juan, "impart quickly  "Are you sporting with me, Madam ? Do
this great secret.".                   you know that you play with your fate ?"
Maria related rapidly and concisely what almost screamed the king, as he dashed his
she:. had, seen and heard the night before. sword against a pedestal of marble, and
The king's brow darkened. - His pride, his shivered it to pieces.
affections were wounded. His eyes assume  "I am merely completing the tale, which
that white, dilated brightness, which forebo- your majesty was pleased to receive second
ded a storm of wrath.                  hand from my waiting maid," replied the
" Enough maiden," he cried, "Comel" Countess, with icy coldness. "I was, last
To the astonishment of the pages and ser- night at two o'clock, in my sleeping apart.
vitors who could . see all' his actions, but ment, in company with father Marcus, your
were notnear enough to hear the words of majesty's private secretary, and with a page
Maria,the king pushed the trembling maiden of the duke di Azambuja."
into the apartments, himself following. The  "With father Marcus I" cried the king.
doors were all thrown 6pen, and "his ma- It puzzled-him. He was convinced of hiq
jesty the king," was announced.        secretary's high integrity and faithfulness,
The surprise of Gloria can be imagined, "Eien with father Marcus," repeated
when she saw her, royal lover enter, with Gloria. "We both, in disguise, attended ia.
clouded broit and, angry eye, accompanied meeting of conspirators at the Church of St.
by herwaiting maid. The beautiful coun- Jago."
tests satupon a divan in a costume of pur-  "A meeting of conspirators ?"
ple silk and lace, which was adorned with  "In which I had the pleasure to see his

excellency the Prior di Castro, and the
Duke di Azambuja presiding."
"My brother!", The reader may remark
that in the sixteenth century the prejudice
against bastards was much less strong thai
it is at the present time.
" Lady I be kind enough to explain the
particulars of all this," said the king.
Gloria obeyed. From the time of receiv
ing the casket to the events of the past night
all was made known to the king.
Juan sounded the rattle.
Pages appeared.
"Call Father Marcus, immediately; " com-
manded the king. The pages hastened to
summon him.
In a few moments the priest stood in the
presence of the king. He attested all that
Gloria had related. The papers were also
produced by Father Marcus, who had kept
them, and deciphered by him.
The king was satisfied; nay more lie was
glad; glad to find his suspicions' unjust;
glad to see that Gloria had, by her own
means, saved him from imminent dangers.
Glad to discover causes that enabled him
with justice to remove a conspiring brother,
and to put down treacherous nobles. The
king, therefore, glad and grateful, embraced
Donna Gloria with ardent expressions of
love.              '
But the lady was not yet satisfied. Arch-
ing her stately neck nhe met the king's em-
brace with a face of cold disdain, and turn-
ed to leave the apartment. Anxious to ob.
viate the impression his suspicions had made
on the Countess' mind, Juan took her hand,
and, by the most affectionate words only,
succeeded in somewhat allaying Gloria's
outraged feelings.
" Ask for a peace offering my beloved,"
said the king. "I swear upon this cross, to
grant you, any thing you ask !" and heI
touched a cross upon the table, with his
lips.
" Well, sire," replied Gloria considerably
pacified,1" I will retain the right to make a
request until a suitable opportunity occurs.I
You will always be ready to grant it?" I
"I have sworn," was the reply. "But,"|
added Juan, "could you not give me the eas-|

69

e ket in which those papers were contained?
His late majesty, my father, once mentioned
, a casket of steel, which in a secret drawer
e contains important documents  Perhaps it
is the same, you now possess!"-I
Gloria rose and said: "Your majesty shall
e see it," and left the apartment. Entering
her bed chamber, she turned to the closet
wherein she kept her valuables. At its side
, stood Massor, the gipsy chief, the steelen
casket in his hand. The door of the closet
was open. Its lock had been forced.
The gipsy chief quickly aporoached her.
"Lady," he said, "you have been prying
into mysteries; thank your stars that no'
harm is done, and that I have abandoned
those to whom you have acted as a spy. You
have destroyed a conspiracy and men, whom
it would now have been my province to des-
troy. Therefore, I forgive you. I came
merely to get this casket. But you will see
ime again, shortly. Good night."  The gip.
sy bowed, and disappeared through the
window ere Gloria could speak a word, or
even recover from her astonishment.
She returned to the king, and said:
"I can not find the casket, sire !"
"No matter, Donna," replied Juan.
Maria had listened to all this, indifferent.
ly, except to perceive that she had not been
able to harm Gloria. The Countess howev-
er, who could appreciate the pangs of disap-
pointed love, said kindly:
."Go, child, I forgive you. Go to your-
apartments." Maria went weeping.
The king had his attendants called, and
instantly sent two of them to summon Don
Antonio the minister and' Don Pedro diGar-
cia, the captain of the royal guards.
C H A P TE R -X VIII.
THE ARREST.
On the same evening, when the things rela-
ted in the previous chapter occurred, Don
Diego di Azambuja returned ratherlate from
a visit this bride.
He hed scarcely divested himself of his
hat and sword, and laid down upon a couch,
when Amaso one of the duke's pages, and
Carlo, the young man who had taken Gloria
to Fidaro's chamber, entered. Perplexity

OR, PLOTS AND COUNTERP-LOTs.


70 "                     T a    FA T A I
was upon their face. Amaso carried in his
*rms, the rich dresses which Gloria hadI
thinown off, and the monk's habit.
"What do you want? What is this ?'
inquired Don Diego, in a petulant voice,
wearily turning toward them.
"A very curious thing, and it please you,
sirl" replied Amaso.
"What is curious? speak out!"
"And it please you, my lord, I found a
suit of mine missing, and these female gar-
ments in its place."
"Let me alone; one of the maids borrow-
ed your clothes for a frolic, I suppose," re-
plied Diego.
"But, my lord, these are not the garments
of a servant maiden." '
Diego opened his eyes fully and looked at
them. The page was certainly right. The
garments were rich and must be those 'of a
lady of high standing. Let the reader re-
member that those were the times yet when
arich dress was asign of the wearer's nobili-
ty and wealth. In the present age the re-
verse seems applicable.
" And it please you sir, Carlo knows
something about this circumstance."
"What have you to say ?" inquired the
noble turning to Carlo.
"Why sir," replied Carlo, "when Fidaro
changed his dress last night to accompany
you, he would do it in the dark, and so put
on Amaso's suit. At the same time he
dropped a ring, which he left in- my hands.
On the whole, Fidaro behaved in a veryre.
narkable manner last night."
"Let me see the ring.D"1
Itwas given to Don Diego .
"This isvery costly," he said. "Did you
see," he cried at once springing up, "did
you see Fidaro's face, even once last night ?"
The page mused. At last he replied: "1I
did not, my lord I"      ,
"Neither did I; not a single time !" ex-
claimed Don Diego. "It is possible then,
that some one else has acq#mpanied me ?
he reasoned. 'By thegarinents left behind
this intruder may have been a lady, and
moreover a lady of standing. She may hav
assumed: the page's clothes and the mask
covered her face. But why did I not recog

L  S   cnaRT,
nise her before? The cowl concealed her,
head before Oh, if intruder there was, that
intruder was present at the meeting. Holy
mother of God, have mercy on us I"
And to his mind recurred every circum-
stance of the preceding . night. The meet-
in;, where this person was present. The
things that had passed there.
He now recollected the soft voice of the
page, the circumstance of his disappearance
ere they arrived at the palace, and a thou-
sand other little things, that, insignificant as
they were, now served to confirm Diego's
opinion that a spy, disguised as Fidaro, had
accompanied him. Regaining composure, he
cried:
"Call Fidaro, if he be found, and tell my
father I desire to see him."
The pages went on their errand. In a
few moments, that seemed hours to Don Die-
go, ao impatient was he, the Duke di Azam-
buja was with his son. Don Diego quickly
related to his parent, all he knew and feared.
The old noble grew pale, and his teeth be-
gan to chatter. He wanted tosay something,
but all his faculties were paralysed.
Fidaro was brought in by Amaso.
"You may retire," said Don Diego to
Carlo and Amaso; "but keep with some ser.
vitors within call. I may need you present-
ly.  The pages bowed and retired.
"Were you with mt last night ?" inquir-
ed Don Diego.
"I was my lord I" replied the page.'
"What clothes did you wear?"
"A suit of Amaso's and a black mask."
"Why did you take Amaso's clothes ?"
"They were the first I found."
"What did ou wear before you assumed
Amaso's suit?'
"A monk's gown, with a white cross."
"Where did you accompany me to?"
"To a house, where your highness met a
lady."
This had been communicated to Fidaro by
Gloria, when in the morning he returned for
the clothes
,  "What happened there ?V
" Excuse mea sir, but I saw not every-
e thing." .
"True, you were below. Fidaro you are
- faithful?"

3'

a

"Your highness o
acquainted yearsag
his face to the light.
A dim   recollecti
"I saw you bef
was it?"
"At Coimbra, my
"Iremember! I r
the young noble; 'l
A sigh' escaped h
recollection. But Fi
at him from his flash
Here the old duk
"After all, then, the
'and Fidaro has been
page, and not a stri
at our meeting ?"
"How should'a str
my lord ?" innocently
"We have suspec
said Don Diego; " bu
false. Had they be
have been your rewi
out from its sheath
his side.
Fidaro only replied
which was unobserv
Diego. The impulses
the teachings of his
him to spring at Do
But the better sens
lately received told I
the sweeter revenge w
he waited calmly unti
to retire.
Scarcely had Fida
when Amaso again en
"Don Pedro di G
with your highness I"
" The captain of the
Diego.
"Yes, senor; and s
pany him."
The duke and his s
each other.
"What can this m
noble, his face palingn
cover.
Another page ran in
"My lord, the palace
guard I"

OR, PLOTS A')D        COUNTERPLOTS.                       71
ught to know; we were   "No doubt all is discovered, " cried Don
go;" and Fidaro turned Diego. "Now, action must be quick, or all
is lost." He reflected for a moment and then
on flashed' across Don said: "Father, fly immediately through the
secret outlet of the palace. You know where
ore," he said; "where to find horses. ALount, and get to your es-
lord?"  'tates as quickly as possible. Amongst your
remember" exclaimed own people they can not harm you. A con-
spiracy is no more possible-it must become
Oh those happy days." a revolution. You my sons," and he turned
-is bosom, at the sweet to the pages, "you, my sonelove me, I know.
daro shot dark glances Let one of you tell Don Pedro di Garcia
ing eyes.            that as soon as I am properly attired, I will
e interposed, and said: receive him. And you,'Amaso, will- do a
re is no cause of fear, service of hazard for me, will you not?"
true to us. It was you, "And if it cost my life, senorI" cried the
anger, that was present page, with tears in his eyes. He had bee'
born on the estates and raised in the house
anger gain admittance of the duke.
inquired the page.    "Thanks, my friend," replied Don Diego,
ted you of treachery." and quickly continued, "take these spurs to
ut our suspicions were the Prior di Casto  I have borrowed them
en verified, this would from him, and relate what has occurred
ard," and he half drew here. That is, tell him that the guard sur-
the jewelled dagger at rounds the house. Go with the speed of
by a glance of hatred, wind I-and if any one asks you where you
ed, however, by Don go, say: to the Cardinal Savelli, to present
9 of his wild nature and these spurs."
gipsy education urged  " Now, Father," continued the young man,
in Diego and stab him. "hasten! the conspirators will meet in the
e and training he had northern mountains, collect an army, and
im to wait and enjoy then take by force, what it now is impossi-
Um o  aitan  enoyble to atanb  unng. The Cortes are
which was coming. So             bycunni
l his masters bid him with usI Go, father."
"And you,"'cried the duke.
ro left the apartment  "I? some one must remain to divert the
tered and said:     attention of the king's party, for else the
arcia wishes to speak pursuit will be too hot. I will remain ! They
dare not harm me! Beside, they tan not pro.
guard?" inquired Don ceed quickly in a case like this, and be-
fore long your army #rill give them some-
everal officers accom- thing else to employ their thoughts on. Good
bye." And, embracing his father, he pushed
ion silently looked at the weeping old man through the door.
"Hasten, dear father, for on your safety
aean ?" asked the old depends mine !" He called after him. Then
at the thought of dis- opening the other door, he cried in a loud
voice:
breathless:          "Admit Don Pedro di Garcia!"
e is surrounded by the  The captain of the guard entered. He
was a stout,tall man, with a rough face and
LIBF4


72                        TH E FATAL      gEcStET,
a soar across his forehead. He was follow-  The king was greatly enraged when he
ed by one or two of his inferior officers.  heard of this. More yet, when in a few dayd
"Welcome, Don Pedro I Wh'at lucky trusty spies informed him, that his brother,
chance causes your visit this night ?" in- with a body of the most distinguished nobles,
quired Don Diego, calmly and gently, as if was drawing to the North where they had
he had feared or anticipated nothing.   mostfadherents, and would probably gather
" A very unlucky chance senor, as I take an, army there. As yet they had not been
it!" replied Don Pedro, in hard loud tones. able to gather any considerable body of
"It can not be unlucky since it has troops, but their followers were preparing to
brought such a valued friend to our house I" hire and enlist great numbers. This news
quickly said Don Diego, with a polite bow. caused the king considerable uneasiness.
Thereader will observe that Don Diego want
ed to gain time that his father could escape,   C H A P T E R   X I X.
and the Prior receive notice.               DONNA MIRANDA AND HER COUslN.
"But," repeated the captain, "it is un- It was late in the afternoon. TheSun beam-
lucky: I come at the command of his majes- ed richly and dreamily through the high'
tj the king, tp-"                       windows, and cast flickering shadows of the
"I hope his. majesty is well," cried Don vines that veiled them, upon the gaily vari-
Diego, still endeavoring to protract matter. gated Mosaic floor. The Mosaic was arran-
"Perfectly, senor," said the captain, in ged in a bright and fanciful Moorish pattern,
an irritated voice; "but let me perform my and the floor so highly polished, that it re.
duty. I arrest you in the name of his ma- sembled a surface of glass. Hangings of a
jesty the King!" and he drew from his faint colored silk, with rich scarlet border,
pocket, an order signed by the monarch.  simple but elegant furniture, a small Per.
"For what offence, senor!" exclaimed sian rug in the middle, and a desk, for pray-
Don Diego, feigning to be extremely aston- er surmounted by an ivory cross, made up
ished.                                 the features of the apartment.
"For high treason!" was the reply.    Upon a stool, or rather a high cushion,'
At this moment Amaso entered. Don sat the beautiful Miranda. She was simply
Diego exchanged glances with him, and robed in white, with a few roses of the same
kpew that he had executed his mission.  color, in her golden brown hair. Upon a
" Senor, surprise at tlis charge almost de- chair opposite to her, his brown face lit up
prives me of my consciousness!" said Diego by admiration, and playing with the tassels
to the captain. "However, you have an or- of his sword,sat Don Isidore di Canaroo, her
der signed by his majesty, and I must obey! cousin. He was an old soldier, full of all
Here is my sword!V" and unhooking his wea. the nobleat qualities, but with a rough ex-
pon, he delivered it to Don Pedro.     terror.
"I am deeply grieved," said the rough  -nr.
captain, " but my mission ends not here. 1  "Miranda," he sid,  b imagined you yet
have orders to arrest the duke. I hope thatfaufild. I have indeed brought curious toys
the ancient house di Azambuja will quickly for you, from  the Indies  But now I am
clear itself of this benious charge."  The named to show them, for you are a grown
captain of an ancient family himself, felt  My dear cousin," replied Miranda, ri-
sympathy for the prisoner.                "M-ercusn"rpid             iadn-1
They searched for the duke but could not sing and putting an arm around his neck, I
find him. At last last they were compelled hope there is no difference in your sentiments
to depart without hi.  Don Diego, under to me, whether I am a girl or a grown mai-
sufficient escort, was sent to the castle, while den o o   trary?"love you even
Garcia went to arrest the other conspirators.  Oh noI  on the contrar  love you
But astonishing to say, none were at homne. more if' and the brave soldier blushed. "But
Through Don Diego's timely notice, all had 1 must now look for a present suitable to
been enabled to save themselves,       your age, Miranda !"

On, PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS.

4' I want no other present but your heart I"
said Miranda, gaily, giving him a rose from
her hair.
" How mean you ?" cried Don Isidore, his
forehead burning, and his eyes bright. '
Don Nuna di Perez put an end to the con-
versation, by his entrance. After a little
while he said:
" Come, Isidore; let us ride a little."
The soldier unwillingly assented, and
took leave of Miranda.
While they were riding in the cool even-
ing air, the East Indian, extravagantly ex-
pressed his undisguised admiration of Miran-
da, It was dark, and, therefore, impossible
for Don Isidore to perceive the deadly pale-
ness, which sank on his uncle's features at his
words. At last Don Nunamade an effort:
" If you admire her so much," he said,
"marry her! I am sure I would be content."
- Don Isidore stopped, and cried in a voice
of extreme joy:
"Is it possible, uncle ? Do you think I
can gain her affections ! Oh, if such happi-
ness were in store for me I"
At that moment they passed a house from
the windows of which, streams of light flowed.
The face of Isidore was bright, smiling and
pushed with joy. The features of Don Nu-
na pale and haggard. Could the heart of
these two men have been seen at the same
moment, still greater differences might have
been observed.
"f think that my daughter likes you,"
said the old man hoarsely; "she was an ar-
dent admirer of your deeds in East India."
What a forced slow voice to pronounce those
words!. But Isidore listened to the words
only. Besides, he had been away long, and
thought 't was age had changed his uncle's
voice.
" Thanks," he cried, "thanksI How hap-
py you have maade ne I"
Two days after, Isidore proposed,and was
accepted by his beautiful cousin.
CHAPTER XX.
THE NOBLE       AND    THE QUEEN.
An old ruined tower not far beyond
Belem, looking upon the wide mouth of the
bue Tagus, and upon the heaving sea be-
10

yond indicated the place,wvhere formerly an
extensive and strong fortress or castle stood.
It was a roughly built, and uncouth looking
edifice, and,although of vast dimensions and
great strength, had never been much useL
But now, the widowed queen of Emmanuel,
and sister of Charles the fifth, occasionally
resided there.
The 'night was murky. Great heaps of
clouds lay like vast pillows upon the sea,
and the winds tossed them about, like a
busy housewife airing her beds. As it
struck the sharp angles and walls of the
castle, the wind moaned and sighed, and
sometimes shrieked with a shrill unearthly
voice.
The dark figure of a man walked along the
solitary banks of the Tagus to an old ruin-
ed chapel, which, as it were, formed the
most extreme point of Belem, The chapel
belonged to the town yet. Around it was a
court yard, filled with rubbish, and loose
stones. Springing with a light foot over the
stones, and avoiding, as carefully as' the
small light would permit it,the heaps of rub-
bish and pools of accumulated waters, he
entered the ruined portal and walked
through the gray aisle of the little chapel.
Arrived at the back part, he stopped 'for a
moment, in a listening attitude, and then,
hearing nothing, bent down and cleared
away some stones. Thus an oblong slab of
granite was disclosed, which seemed the co-
ver to some ancient grave. Removing itthe
man uncovered the top of a coffin, set
into a grave of stone. A touch upon a
small iron nail that slightly projected from
the right side of the grave, opened by a
spring, the coffin lid, and disclosed a narrow
staircase. Closing again the lid, the man
walked quickly down the stairs. He must
have been acquainted with the localities, for
he walked in the dark. At the bottom of
the stairs a passage began, and along
this, he proceeded until brought to a halt by
a heavy iron door. Taking a key from his
pouch he opened it, and entered a room,
furnished luxuriously. Striking fire, he
lighted  two massive candelabras. Rich,
very rich, were the adornments and the fhrn
nitute of the apartment,

7g


74

TuT FATAL

. The man threw off his hat-and cloak, and,
turning to a large mirror, surveyed himself
for some moments. He was of herculean
proportions, with calm majestic and dignified
features. It was Don Lionel Dian.
He seized a silken cord on one side of the
mirror, and pulled it.
The tingle of a bell was heard through the
sil  e,from far away.
i lene,-
In a few moments a door opposite to the
one through which Don Lionel had come,
opened, and the figure of a female entered.
She was wrapped in a robe of silk brocade,
embroidered with gold,and lined with snowy
white fur. In the corners of her robe were
the double eagle of Austria, and the lions of
Spain, embroidered in gold and seed pearls.
Her head was covered by a rich veil fastened
to the hair, by diamonds and rubies. It
was Eleanora of Austria, dowager queen of
Portugal.
The young and beautiful widow of Emman-
uel, entered with a hesitating, yet eager step.
Don Lionel threw himself upon his knees
and kissed her hand immediately.
"Thanks, Eleanora,.that you came. It is
so long since I have had the happiness! Oh
couldwe always remain together."
"Dear Lionel," replied the queen, "you
are selfish! You do not seem to think that
I have counted the hours of separation, as
well as you I"
Don Lionel had arisen, and silently looked
at the illustrious lady, but with looks of
suoh-burning love 'that they exceeded any
eloquence, his tongue might have produced.
"Let us fit down, Lionel,", continued El-
eanora.-
The noble pressed the beautiful queen to
bis bosom, and both sat down upon a Moor-
ish divan.
The reader may remark that, in royal
amours, whether of males or females, roy-
ality takes the initiative and courts the ob-
ject of its love. For,a subject dares not raise
his eyes,until majesty bends down. Don
Lionel hi, in his youth, been a page in
the household of queen Joanna, and later,
been attached to the suite of her daughters.
There, at the romantic court of Spain, and
the brilliant one of Netherlands and Bur-

L SECRET,
gundy, Eleanora first loved the beautiful and
dignified page, there the sentiments of a
deep, live-long passion first bloomed in the
heart of Don Lionel. From that timer but
one shared the rich heart and grand, noble
soul of this remarkable manwith the prince-
ly Eleanora-it was his nation. A secret
Israelite, half his being was devoted with
constant affection to his faith and the welfare
of his nation, the other half with a love
pure, holy and calm as the stars-to Elea-
nora.
The princess knew that he was a secret
Israelite. But, she also knew that he was
descended from the heroes of the olden
time, whose valor and splendor resounded
through the East, from David and Solomon.
She knew that he was of the lineage from
which the priests told her Christ and the
mother of God were descended. And hon-
oring his ancestry, the Catholic princess
forgot that he was of a heretic faith.
An Israelite in those days, was hated, but
not despised. For Spain's sweetest poets,
and bravest knights, and wisest statesmen
were the descendants of Israelites.
So it had come to pass, that the grand.
daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella the
Catholic, loved Dop Lionel Dian, Vath a love
that overleaped the boundaries of religion
and station.
Don Lionel loved her in return, with an
affeetion worthy of its object,and of the heart
that gave it.
Yet he had seen her become the bride of
Emmanuel, without despairing, though not
without poignant sorrow. Because, from the
first, he had considered, that though he
might love a princess, he never could pos-
sess her. But Eleanora's heart was almost
rent. Yet the presence of Lionel, at the
Portuguese court, consoled her somewhat.
Still she hoped to be once-how or when,
she troubled herself not to find out-united
with the object of her affections. Woman's
hope never dies.''I                 .
Eleanora was beautiful. Her complexion
was pale and delicate; her eyes dark and
soft; and her features eminently pure and
regular. Upon them rested that proud, self-
possessed and coinmending expression which-

OR, PLOTS AND
we find to be an attribute of the scions of
noble and ancient families, especially of the
descendants of'royality.
Don Lionel gently put back the veil that
concealed the queen's face, and said:
"Some very important affairs have pre-
vented me from seeing-you for some time,
dearest; and now affairs of importance bring
Nae to you."
"Then it was not your ownheartLionel!"
reproachfully said Eleanora.
" When we are elevated above the general
mass, and the destiny of a people depends
on our actions, our own affections, however
strong and ardent, are forced into the back
ground, princess!"
'"Oh, but too true! The interest of Spain
wedded me to Emmanuel," replied the
queen.
" In the days, when we were young, and
the dowager queen of Portugal was but prin
cess of Austria, when Don Lionel Dian, the
leader of Israel, was but a page at the court
of Philip and Joana, when we both were
children, in the sunny groves of Castile,
then we could meet and part, as the heart
wished. But now   -"
"Our love is the same, nevertheless, and
will endure while life lasts! Not so Lio-
nel ?"
"While life lasts ! Embrace me again
Eleanora, and then let us talk of more im-
portant, though disagreeable matters."
The queen drew the handsome noble to
her heart, and covered his forehead with
kisses. His pale, noble face, all oversha-
dowed .with black curls, rested on her hea-
ving bosom. Both remained silent for some
minutes. The queen's eyes dwelled on herj
lover's face, his were upraised to her coun-I
tenance.I
"Then slowly raising himself, he said:j
"Eleanora, a messenger from your brother
.Charles is on the way hither."
"With what purpose ?"
"To prepare you for a new allianceI"
"Gracious heaven, again! are my feelings
never taken into consideration ? the Emper-c
or knows that I do not wish to marry again!"r
and the beautiful lady walked agitatedly up 1
and down the apartment.

COUNTERPLOTS.                       75
' My queen, my princess, my love I" cried
Don Lionel, "be calmI have not I, with a
composed countenance, heard that the king
of France wilk possess in future, her, whom
my soul loved from youth, whose image will
be enshrined in my heart when death hath
calmed it? Oh, Eleanora, were not my love
so great, so pure and spiritual, the dagger or
the poison would long have -silenced the
painful cries of this breast."
" You are, indeed, an example to me Lio.
nel," replied Eleanora. "But is it really
so, that I must wed the king of France ?"
'-So  the Emperor has decided.   The
fleur-de-lils will adorn that pure brow,whose
whiteness they can not match. The crown
of France will glow upon that dear head."
" And the thorns of that crown,-shall
pierce the heart beneath. Oh, to wed the
gay, volatile Francis, to mix with the plea-
sures of the French court, will be gall to
my soul."
"Francis is a proud and chivalric knight!''
"I hate him, already. Then his mother,
that bad Louise de Savoy, whose vices and
cunning are the by word of Europe! Oh
Lionel could we both die together now!"
" We both must live for future purposes
still. "
"But can not this be avoided? Francis
and my llrother are enemies I"
"It is to cement their new union and
peace, that this marriage is proposed.
"And I must be the victim."
"Dearest Eleanora, I will always remain
at your side. Let that console you I"
" Console me! Is not mine a fate like that
of Tantalus ? Is not happiness always within
my reach, and yet always eludes my grasp.
I shall not marry France. I will resist to
the last. Speak to me no more of it, Lio-
nel."
The noble was silent for a moment, then
rising, took the queen's hand, and with
graceful action led her back to the seat.
"There is something else, I wished to
speak to you of. The Prior di Castro is at
open war with the king. His adherents are
many. But they would melt away like love'
before jealousy, were Juan to abolish the
Inquisition. How much in mine and in my


76

THaE FATAL SEOlBT,

people's interest it is that the Inquisition be
abolished I need not tell you. Will not
Queen Eleanora, whose influence over the
king is so great, attempt to remove the hate-
ful tribunal ?"
" But, his holiness has sent the Cardinal
Savelli, and my brother has recommended
him in letters. Can Juan now abolish the
Inquisition without offending both the Holy
Father and the Emperor? Beside the aboli-
tion of the holy tribunal will only conciliate
the rebels, while its support will overpower
and crush them."
" To your first objections, Eleanora, let
me reply, that I doubt whether Savelli's
credentials, from the Pope, and your broth-
er are genuine."
"What I a Cardinal cheat, or even pre-
sent false credentials ? Impossible."
" So it might well seem. But I believe I
have reasons for this suspicion. You know
the Emperor's writing, as well as I do.
Look I" and Don Lionel drew a parchment,
heavy with seals from his pouch.
The queen looked at it.
"It does not look like my brother's sig-
nature, but may still be it," she said.'
"1I have no doubt that it is forged, but, in
a little time, will be certain about it. Mean-
while, Eleanora, while the Inquisition ex-
ists, I am in constant danger of my life."
" They dare not harm you. Should any
mischance occur, I, the Queen, the Emper-
or's sister, will step in and put a stop to the
proceedings. Fear not, Lionel."
"Oh, had I known that it would come to
this; that you would be the bride of Francis
at last, I would not have rejoiced at your
rejection of Juan. Fool that I was, to think
you would be left in peace, by the ambitious
Emperor."         .
"I am not the bride of the French king
yet. That hateful diadem, which is my
curse through life How happy could I
have been, had I not been born a prin-
cess. But being born so, I shall uphold the
pride of my rank and name," continued the
queen slowly; "Lionel, though I love you
more than all else, I would father die than
marry you I"
Don Lionel's face Bushed. "1This," he

said, "is the just feeling of your race and
nation. , myself, could never Wed you,
though you should leave the throne and the
Church. The pure blood of David can only
unite with a race equally ancient and no-
ble."
" Will you not," he continued, " use your
influence upon Joan, to suspend, at least,
the Inquisition for some time ?"
"Will I possess any influence on him
yet, when he hears of this French alliance '?"
Don Lionel Dian reflected for some mo-
ments, silently, on the position of things.
Then he said:
" The ambassador shall not arrive in three
weeks yet. This will give me time enough
to prove the documents of Savelli false."
"Do you still think they are-forged ?"
"Such is my belief; but 1 must be able to
prove it."
" Very well; I shall try my Uest to cause
the suspension of the Inquisition, for a short
time. This-I do merely for your sake, Lio.
nel."
" Thanks, beloved, thanks !" They em-
braced.
Thay still talked. and called up old memo-
ries 5of beautiful Castile, and of the happy
times, the pleasures, the joys, that had been
their's in that romantic land. Alas! Portu-
gal was not less fair than Castile, the Court
of Lisbon not poorer in pleasures but Lio-
nel and Eleanora were no longer young.
He was no longer the handsome, brilliant,
and imaginative page of eighteen; she no
longer the child-princess of twelve. The
poetry and romance that had occasioned
their attachment had fled, but the love itself
remained. Spring was    gone, and   the
flowers faded, but fall found the fruits ripe,
where blossoms had bloomed. Their love
had grown stronger, as youth, romance and
poetry fled. At first, it had been a love of
'he imagination-now it was a love of reason.
At first fancy had bound their souls, now
philosophy chained it. Still the heart burn-
ed with the same ardor yet, as when love
first lighted it. For their love was pure; the
fire was chaste as that of Vesta, and, there-
fore, everlasting.
Don Lionel Dian rose and bid the Queen

"

\

-OR, PLOTs AND
farewell. Again and again they embraced,
and could not part.
At last Eleanora wrapped her robe around
her, and leaving a corn-ear of gold, like
those she wore in her hair, in the hand of
Don Lionel, disappeared.
Don Lionel kissed the golden keepsake,
and put it into his bosom; then extinguish-
ing the lights, ho left this secret apartment,
and ascending to the chapel, replaced the
slab of stone, kicked some rubbish upon it,
and returned to Lisbon.
CHAPTER XXI.
TUBEGIPSY 's DEMAND.
We left Massor leaping through the window
of Gloria's chamber, with the casket in his
possession.
?Tis the evening after Don Lionel's inter.
view with Queen Eleanora of Portugal.
We enter a smallapartment in the western
wing of .the royal palace. Seated alone at
a table covered with documents, is Juan.
His plumed hat and jewelled sword are
thrown carelessly aside. The king is evi-
dently in deep meditation, for he does not
notice the small but beautifully proportion-
ed spaniel, that is violently tugging  at the
lace of his boot. He speaks:
" That my crown, aye, my very life should
thus have been endangered, and the minis-
ters of my council themselves among the
foremost of the conspirators-and that base
born-weed in the royal garden, the bastard
offspring of my father's illicit love, as usual
at the head. Holy MaryI defend us-and,by
my right hand, I swear to plant my foot upon
this Prior di Castro."
He rose, and in his excitement struck the
table with his clutched hand, to the evident
astonishment of the spaniel, which slunk si-
lently away at this signal of its master's
wrath. After nervously pacing the roomI
for a moment, Juan again resumed his seat
and continued:
"But, I have them in my power, and my
new born minister, the Inquisition, shall
destroy them, root and branch. The popeI
shall excommunicate them my army -"
A hand is laid upon his shoulder.
He grasps his sword, and, half drawing

COUXTE RPLois.                     77
it, turns and confronts the intruder, exclaim.
ing: "Wreteh! What hoI Guards I" His
angry glance falls upon a man of herculean
proportions, whose swarthy features and
motley dress denote him a gipsy.
It is Massor.
"King!I you cry in vain, I have long since
removed your guards," said the latter, in a
contemptuous tone.
"Who are you, that thus enters my cham-
ber?"
" Who am 1?" retorted Massor. "Like
thyself, I am a King !'
"A Gipsy chief t-A king?-Of cut-throats.
Who gave thee entrance ?"
- " Thou'lt learn, anon," significantly re-
plied the gipsy. "'T is, perhaps, for thy
own safety that I come."
4 Ha!I What mean you ? explain or I
summon my attendants to chastise thine inso-
lence."
"You may call and call again, still none
will obey your summons. For the present
at least, we are on an equality."
" Once for all, state thy object here, or
thou'lt be ejected."
"And art still not convinced? Dost think
that a Rommanni would trust himself in thy
palace  without sufficient  precautions?
HumphI King, you mistake my people."
The King without deigning an answer,
rang the call that lay upon the table.
The sound died away unanswered.
"It is indeed as you say. No matter.
What purpose brings thee here ?"
"Thy own safety, King."
"Speak definitely, fellow."
"I will. Thou hast introduced the In-
quisition."
"What of that," cried Juan, losing pa-
tience.
" All of that; it has been the cause of thy
brother the Prior di Castro's revolt."
" Aye and it will crush that revolt, too."
"'T is easier said, than done."
" The Cortes shall raise an army."
"They already waver; they will declare
for your brother, if-"
" If-.
"They but behold that which I h'ave to
show them."


78

Ta FATAL SacaNT,

' You ? Gipsy; and what have y'u that
eo influence the Cortes.1'
"These documents," replied Massor,draw-
Ing the casket from his pouch.,
By touching a spring, the bottom flew
open and disclosed some papers laying with-
in the cavity.,
"Give them to me," said the King.
"Excuse me, Senor, I can not trust you
with them."
In his rage the King bit his lip, so that
the blood came.
"What are they ?" he inquired in a voice
hollow with rage and mortification.
"The marriage testimonials of your father."
" They are in the hands of our chan-
aellors."
"You mistake. They establish the mar-
riage of the Duke di Braga with the lady di
Castro,
"Great Heavens I I do not understand."
"Then I will speak plainer. They establish
the marriage of your father with the Prior
di Castro's mother. They establish the P0or
di Castro's legitimacy and consequently his
claim to the crown of Portugal,"
The .King is paralyzed. Great beads of
sweat stand upon his brow. Anguish fur-
rows his features; his lips turn livid. Sud-
denly !an electric thrill shoots through his
body; his .eyes -dilate, and become white.
He suddenly bounded forward and,with the
fury of a madman, grasped at the documents
in Massor's hands. But the gipsy was not
unmindful of what was passing; his eye
had, at a single glance, detected Juan's ob
ject, and as the King thought to have the
papers already in his possession, the strong
arm of the Bohemian checked him in his
course, and forcing him with herculean pow-
er back into his seat, whispered:
"In a combat of strength, I would be in
the advantage, King ?"
The-King unnerved and exhausted did
not move, but remained pale and silently
seated.
-" In Heaven's name what do you wish ?"
At length gasped out the astonished Juan.
"I wish that, which you willfind it to
your advantage to grant I" answered the
gipsy.

"And what is that?".inquired Juan.,
"Hear me, King," continued Massor,"all.
these papers, all th evidence of your broth-
er's legitimacy, all and every proof conne-
ted with your father's marriage with the
lady di Castro--all, all, are yours, on certain
conditions."
" Hal say you so; name them, gipsy; any
thing you demand shall be granted; you
shall have honors showered upon you, gold
shall be yours, my treasury shall be at your
service, jewels,-
"Silence," interrupted  the Bohemian,
"and do you think that I came for gold ?-
No -Thank God, I am not what you take
mefor. Jewels-Honors--I know enough of
them,-what are they? dross, glittering
nothings, fit for such as you, and your fawn-
ing courtiers, who forget the past, who have
not the soul to meditate on futurity, who
live but for the present, and whose minds,do
not, will not, and can not comprehend, the
Almightiness of that one Being, to whom we
should bow the head in supplication. , And
the honors, empty baubles, bestowed by
Kings auch as you, upon subjects whomi
your people curse, upon those who can best
aid you in your tyrannical and oppressive
sway - these are not the things, I have
come here to obtain."
"You are not a gipsy," said the king.
"It is immaterial what I am," replied
Massor, "I have come here for a certaiai
purpose, determined to obtain it."
" But," said the King, rising, "let us again
start from the first point. You intend to
force some concession or promise from me,
by a threat to furnish my brother with the
proofs of his legitimacy?"
"It is: so, senor 1"
"1 will not conceal from you, that I have
heard of the existence of these proofs. But
should I refuse to believe in their genuine-
ness?1"
"Then terrible facts shall attest to it.-
The Cortes will depose you,thearmy of your
brother will be increased in an unpreceden-
ted manner, and the country will hail Anto-
nio di Castro as King! The nobles will
flock to him, and the Church crown and an-
noint him I"

OR, PLOTS       AND
"But you are here in my palace, and I
need but cry from this window, to call mul-
titudes to this apartment I can imprison
you and destroy the proofs."
"You deceive yourself, King. In the
first plate J will not let you approach this'
window; again, ere any one could reach this
part of the palace, I could murder you;
again these papers are not the genuine docu-
ments, but copies. You may look at them,
king," and Massor handed them to Juan.
The King was very pale, even greenish
pale, and at the last words of Massor, a
shade of disappointment stole over his eyes.
Hertook the papers, however, and read
them.
"They confirm my worst suspicions,"
said the King, returning them to Massor.
"Reflect, oh King, on your present pasi-
tiori. Rebels in the North,a dissatisfied peo-
ple, an obstinate Cortes-your brother will
grant everything I wish, for these papers-
reflect, King, and grant what I ask."
1 "I have heard enough," said Juan, "if you
wish neither gold nor promotion, what then
do you require."
"You have established the Inquisition,
not so much for the purpose of punishing
malefactors, as to force others to the sameI
religious beliefof which you are a disciple."'
"Well!"I
"You would make the faith of others
subservient to your own, and, finding that
you could not accomplish this by persuasion, t
you will use force."            -
" What mean you ? What can an unbe-
liever want with that which concerns himf
not?'                              --
"It concerns me much, as you shall here-
after find."   I
-"Coicern youth a wanderer on the earth,t
a traveling vagabond," said the King, his e
anger again overcoming his discretion.  r
"Aye, it concerns, me," continued Mae- s
@or, not heeding Juan's epithet; "if it did o
not,suppose you I would malle mention of it?" F
"It matters not; but to come to the point. e
What do you request for your silence, also
to tender me the papers ?"  .          a.t
"Independence! Freedom, for iny ,na-
tion."

COUNTERPLOTS.                        79
"Independence? Freedom ?"    repeated
the surprised King-more and more aston-
ished; "Are not you already free, do; you
not wander where you please ? You-pitch
your tents where best it suits you,'you. pro-
coed without interruption, and no-one asks
you whither you go, or whence you come.
Who, in all Portugal, is more independent
than the Zingaro,the Romani from Bohemia?"
"Your majesty mistakes," replied the
Bohemian, "it is not for the dusky tribes of
the South that I ask, but for all Portugal."
"What! Then I s ppose, you would
have me abdicate the t one and establish a
republic? For sooth, Senor, you are mo-
dest in your request."
"Again, your-majesty is in error. They do
not wish the privilege of doing as they please,
but only permission to think, and speak
their thoughts, as sebms best fit."
"I do not comprehend your meaning."
"Then before I leave, 'you shall fully un-
derstand."
"Proceed then I"
"I am a friend of the israelitish people,
and it is generally understood that the
engines of your new organization, are to be
chiefly directed against them, for knowing
that their belief was the first one,.you think
that on that account, it is the first to be suo-
pressed."
" They must be subdued. Until the pre-
sent have t'ey withstood the oppression,and
assaults of others, but now-they will, shall,
and must yield."
"Oh, your majesty's words are widely
from prophetic; you may subject, and op-
press, with all the bitterest hate, but anon
they and their friends will arise in over-
whelming force, and triumphantly verify
that they aie stillGod's chosen people. How
ever to the point. I must have, a promise, a
royal promise, a royal oath, that' the Inqui-
ition shall be abolished. Grant this,-king,
r your brother is seated ere long on the
Portuguese throne, and you are a hopeless
xile I"
" The Inquisition is established. Let us
empoirise."
"No temporisingI eithet the Inquisition
s abolished, or your brother-"

;


V'

80                        Tus FATAL 5ECR5T1
"Then listen to- my answer," replied the Cortes you need but threaten, or imprison,
king. "On condition that, at acertain time, and the whole nation will see, in you, the
you deliver up these documents, and until violator of its :rights. The Emperor will
then keep silence, I will suspend the action foster every quarrel of Portugal, for should
of the Inquisition for- the present; at least the royal race die out or be deposed, who
in relation to the Israelites."         will be the heir or King elect?  Who but
Massor reflected for a few moments. Then Spain ? I will not touch the prerogatives of
he said:                                the crown, and, therefore, agree to keep si.
"'Tis sufficient; in a few weeks, I hope lence while the Inquisition is suspended.
to be able to prove to you, how you have Then you may act as seems desirable."
been imposed upon, and to give you reasons  A number of men were heard approaching
why the Inquisition should be abolished, the royal apartments.-
But remember King, these papers are in my  "Slave I" cried the King, who now was
possession until religious liberty has been 'himself again.'
established. They are, of themselves, sufli- "Slave ! into no contract will I enter with
cient to kindle a revolution at any time. you  My guards are without; you shall be
Portugal must, therefore, have religious lib. imprisoned, and . racked until your foul
erty if Juan wishes to continue on the throne." mouth discloses where the documents are."
The King said:                          Massor grew pale for one moment
" We will speak about this subject-about  The doors were thrown open, and Don
religious liberty-" at this expression Juan Antonio entered with his suite.
could notcontain his rage at being thus beard.  "Sire I" he said, respectfully bowing, "1
ed in his own palace,and he stamped his foot found the guards of your apartments in leth.
and struck the table; however, he, almost argic slumber. No noble, no page in atten.
immediately, continued: "we will speak of dance; all asleep in the antechambers. Your.
this hereafter. Meanwhile keep silence, and majesty is pale, excited, alone with this
I will endeavor to suspend the action of the strange individual - ?" and he threw a
Inquisition for the present."          look of surprised inquiry at Massor..
" Very well, have I your royal word ?"  "What does itmean you would ask," cried
" You have it 1"                     the'King, "it means treachery; Foul treach
" But this agreement must not prevent me ery ! Thank Heaven that you came at the
from treating with the Prior di Castro. le appointed  time. Gentlemen," he said to
may offer better terms."                Don Antonio's suite, "arrest and bind that
" I will agree to nothing, if you put in that wretch !" andi he pointed to Massor.  '
last clause. After all, I am King I I am  "Beware of what you do, King," cried
able to crush the rebels; I have a faithful the gipsy chief. "The genuine papers I
army. The Cortes are in my hand. The have left in the hands of one who, if I re-
first of them, that dares to show his crest turn not within a short hour, will mount a
against me, shall rue it ih the dungeons of fleet horse and bear them directly to the
the Inquisition. The emperor is mine un- Prior di Castro. You may rack and kill me,
cle, and my friend.-To possess those papers but the papers wll-depose youf' the last
would be a great advantage for me-but, at words, he whispered so that the King alone
the worst I would rather lose the crown could hear them.
than retain it,robbed of its prerogative." The  Again Juan had been foiled. After a mo-
Kig closed his lips- firmly and resolutely. ment's reflection, he bid the gentlempn, who
"Spoken like a KingI But the pillars on were approaching Massor, to desist.,
which you intend to lean, will become the  "You may imprison me at your own
instruments of your enemy to crush you. risk I'! again the gipsy taunted him.
The army are true-only to the rightffal   "Let him leave the palace free, and do
King. 'They will will desert and betray you, not detain him," commanded Juan. "Gipsy!
if the Cortes acknowledge the Prior. 'The our agreement remains."

$1

Massor bowed and with the steelen casket The doors were thrown open at a sign from
in hand, walked slowly through the ranks the King, and Juan, booted.and attired as
of ssrprised'courtiers. As he left the pal- he was for hunting, walked briskly between
ace, he murmured to himself:           the bowing ranks of courtiers and officials,
"1 have escaped great danger, thanks ,t through the antechambers, and down the
the God of Israel. The casket and papers staircase. Miguel followed him amongst a
had nearly been lost to me Oh! if Juan throng of gaily attired cavaliers.
could have dreamed that he held the real  In the courtyard of the palace, the King's
documents in his hand I" and he disappear- steed was held; the grand huntsman# anil
ed in the parks, adroitly foiling the attempts other officials of the royal hunt in their
of all the attendants whom the King had green, gold embroidered costumes, awaited
sent to dog his steps.                 his coming. Grooms, immovable as statues
held the prancing and impatient steeds by
CHAPTER     XXII.            fringed and ornamented 'bridles.
T H E R o Y A L H U N Tr . o n    Juan bowed slightly, as all heads; were
Don Miguel di Sousa, the betrothed of Don- bared, and approached his steed. The
na Rosa Bananda, was a courtier. It is Countdi Almayeda, who had not joined the
true he had served in the navy, at the coast rebels, and therefore, still enjoyed Juan's
of Congo, but after his return he turned favor, held the stirrup. The King was
courtier; and King Juan employed him, sev- about to moint, whdn a sudden commotion
oral times, as; an envoy to foreign courts.
erives, asin envoytofeingn ecut awas occasioned, not far from him, by a dust
He arrived   Lisbon, having executed a bespattered youth, with crushed hat and
mission to the court of England, and, after dragging plumes, who breaking through the
having announced his arrival to the King guards cried:
and in a private audience, given account of " must see the King!"
the result of his mission, he obtained leave to  Juan stopped.
retire for a few months.Junsopd
reWith your gracious   permission, my   The guards endeavored to ejectthe individ-
Lord King, I am about to marry," he said.  ual from the palace yard.
ti h                     .             But still he continued to cry:.
I have seen your bride," said Juan, who  A  ssa e onthe to '"
seldom forgot anything. "In truth she is  A message for the King I"
fair, and well endowed I believe."       ".Bring that man hither," commanded
- " Your majesty is well informed. I hope Juan.
to recruit my fortunes with the rich dowry."  He was brought before him.
4 It pleases me to see my courtiers wealthy.  "I bear a message from the Duke di Azam-
Perhaps I may be able to attend your wed. buja," said the man respectfully.
ding, personally. Meanwhile let me wish  Juan's brows darkened.,
you happiness."                          "Keep this man secure; when I return,
"Your majesty is overgracious. Oh if yo, he shall be heard," he -said, turning to the
would bestow the favor of your presence captain of guards. Then, mounting his
upon our wedding feast, nothing would be horse, the, King rode hastily from the yard.
wanting to complete our happiness."      In a moment, the courtiers were allmoun-
"Have you settled a day yet, Senor ?"  ted, and a wave of silk garments, plumed
"I have not; will your majesty deign to hats, and velvet cloaks seemed to follow
appoint one ?"                         him.
"I will, my trusty Don Miguel. Let it be  They rode towards the summer pavilion..
a month from to day. By that time the reb- The Countess di Voga, was to accompany
els will be no more, and the country quiet the King.
An army has been gathered, and from va-  He entered the apartments, where Glo-
rious points they even now surround the ria's chambermaid was.giving final touches
mountains where the revolted nobles have to her toilette.
encamped."                              'Q The sky smiles like your own glorious,
11

OR, PLOTS A ND COUNTE'RPLOTS.

0


82                        Tun   FATAL Su-On'r,
face Senora," said the King. "It will be a trail of her long scarlet robe hung almost to
fne day for hunting."                  the ground. Her' velvet head gear was
"Oh, I hope so. It is glorious to gallop adorned with a scarlet plume that floated
beneath the dark shades of the deep, silent upon thb wind, and mingled with the long
woods, and see nothing of the sun, except raven curls of her hair. With one hand
glowing patches of blue sky."          she held the reins all sparkling with tassels
" You are pale to day, Senora; you are and fringe; upon the other which was well
not ill?'                              gloved, sat a proud hawk with silver bells
"No; I thank your majesty for your kind and a hood of purple silk.
concern."                                The King looked pleased and handsome.
Gloria directed her curls to be laid fur- He was attired in green velvet. A little in
ther back, and another bracelet to be clasp- the rear of his horse, rode a page with bared
ed around her arm.                      head, holding the lash of several splendid
The King, meanwhile, full of animal spir- hounds.
its had thrown himself upon a cushion, and  The King hunted for several hours. We
to try the edge offhis dagger,-slashed it sev- will not accompany him and his beautiful
eral times across a thick Persian carpet. ,  favorite in their chase after the fleet deer, or
"Oh!" said he, pausing to look upon the the winged inhabitants of the air; we will
design of the rug; "how beautiful it must be, leave the silken courtiers to ring their bugles
in the lands of the East and the South."  and scatter among the old trees of one of the
" True," replied Gloria, "and your ma- few forests, Portugal possesses; and will re-
jesty possesses some of the finest provinces turn to Juan and Gloria at the time of their
of those lands."                        return.
"But I have never seen them. Often      Chatting and laughing, the King rode at
have I imagined a scene like this. Seel Gloria's side. But her smile was less bril-
enormous palms; there, swarthy savages in liant than usual, and her cheek more pale.
combat with the golden-brown lions of Afri-  "Have you received news yet from the
cal A sky rich and burning, above all Oh, rebels, my lord ?" inquired Gloria.'
could I but travel ! To Congo and India,and  "I have -not I do not, think my troops
to the pearly shores of the Spice Islands, I have encountered them yet. But a messen-
can send nobles and governors, but as for ger from the treacherous Azambuja has ar-
myself I am cbained to Portugal."       rived and awaits,even now,my bidding at the
"A King is truly chained, but by diamond palace."
links."                                   "From   Azambuja? And for what pur-
"Some of my     predecessors traveled. pose."
But they enjoyed a more tranquil reign  "I have not yet inquired."
than has become my portion. OhI and    "He must bear proposals forthe liberty of
when I look at you, Gloria, who are so much the Duke's son."
like an Eastern fairy--."                 "If such is his errand, he has come in'
"The horses are impatient. Content your- vain."
self, my'Lord King, Portugal is onej of the  "And has your majesty already decided
fairest lands on earth, and not the less fair upon Don Diego's fate?'
to him, who wetrs its crown."             "Ne; we do not like to terrify the rebels.
/ "W/     you, lady, any land would he para. For, but yesterday, Father Domingo, the
dise! ' said the King gallantly. Grand Inquisitor's secretary, was despatched
He extended his hand, and led Donna to, them, with oilers of pardon on disper-
Gloria down, to her horse, courteously as- sion."
seating the lady to mount. Then again     "Sire! this mercy is ill placedI The
bestriding his own steed, the train moved King with the full confidence in his right
briskly away.                          and justice should not hesitate a moment in
DonnaGloria rode at the~ing's side. The punishing a conspirator against his throne.

%s

a

"

1

On, PLoTs kND COUNT.ERPLOTS.                             83
This dreadful example will have more effect "I do not doubt it. I will reflect, and
on the rebels than-"                    then adopt whatever course is most suitable
", My mercy ?"                        for a King."
Your majesty's merciful hesitation. For, "There is but one course, and that is
the latter gives a weak and vacillating as- plain."
peet to the royal position."              "Not so plain to me, as it seems to be to
"Perhaps you are right, countessI"   you, Countess."
They were riding in a deep shade, consid-  "You will not subject this matter to the
erably in advance of the courtiers.     Cortes. Such a deference to them would be
Donna Gloria was pale. There was a dangerous."
baleful gleam in her eyes, and a triumphant  "No fear of that. My own, council shall
frown upon her brow.                    decide upon the course to be pursued. You
What were her feelings at the moment? interest yourself much in these matter,
Wild, urging and passionate. She felt her- Countess I"
self hurried onward in a stormof actions.  "And to some purpose, I hope. Your
She was not glad, not sorry.- A wild bitter- majesty's interest is always nearest to my
ness pervaded her, and beginning to taste of heart."
revenge, she found it not to be a feast for "I will not blame your interference in
the gods, but a punishment for the dark ha- matters of state and policy. For, by that
treds of the human heart. Still, she had very quality of yours, this late conspiracy
begun as it were, to run down hill, and the has been discovered."
impetus, thus acquired, carried her to the  They rode on silently, far some time.
bottom. She had gone too far to stop.     "If we only had a reason, a plausible rea-
"Were I King of Portugal, and had a son to give to the people, to the Cortes and
conspirator against my crown in prison the Cardinal, for suspendingtheInquisition,"
while a rebel army threatened from without, said the King.
I would not hesitate a moment to give him "Why suspend it ?" inquired Gloria.
full justice !"                          "We find it necessary to do so. The rea-
" What do you call full justice, Senora?" son I can not state to you even, Countess,
"In regard to a conspirator ?"        much less, to the Cortes and the people I"
" In regard to Don Diego di Azambuja1"  "But sire, will not the Cardinal protest, if
" Full justice in regard to him," said Don- you give not sufficient reasons for proceedeg
na Gloria, slowly, "r call: striking his head thus ?"
of, like this," and rising in her saddle she  " Therefore, I must find reasons I"
struck the petal of a flower, from its stem,  The Countess was silent.
with a blow of hei whip. The flower had   Shortly after, they arrived at the palace
stood at the foot of a tree, and as the whip and the King ordered the duke di Azambu-
struck the tree, it broke. ja's' messenger to be brought before him.
" The dealer of death has been broken,                   --
Countess!" sai.lthe King.                      CHA PTER        XXIII.
"My Lord King, it beseems your dignity                no S A.
as a monarch to execute Don Diego."     Picture to yourself, the gardens of Donna
.,"Doubtless, Countess. I think .to follow BanandaI Portray to your mind, the bal-
yourcounsel would be best." cony with its fringe of flowers, and the win-
" Have you a truer counsellor, sire,than dows that open upon it, from the apartments
Gloria di Voga:?"                       of Donna Rosa Bananda I The statue of
"Assuredly not. But in matters like Diana is still chastely wrapped in a cloak of
these-"                                 late, autumnal blossoms! The banisters of
" The most faithful counsel is the wisest; the stairs are still covered with their gor-
depend upon it sire, in' *circumstances like geous tapestry of green leaves.
these."                                   The Sun has been blazing all day, and


I

84                        THs    FATAL
nown.elts into a sea of pure, sober gold, on
the verge of the Western .-horizon. It gar-
nished the solitary rags of clouds that,- here
aAd therefinat on the-air, with trembling
veils of light. They seem the sun's footprints
upon the blue-sky.
At her window sits RosaBananda. Paler
than when we last saw her, bidding good
night to Enrique-after the entertainment at
the Countess Solani's, but not less fair.
She holds a letter in her hands. Happy
rmiden I'it is a letter from Enrique. Now
she reads, again and again, the words, over
#which the earnest fire of his love has been
poured.     .
Again her hands sink into her lap, and
her gaze sweeps dreamily over te sunset
sky. - Does she see the splendors o Nature ?
l$o, for -her heart is stirred by love, and
greater splendors, sweeter visions occupy
her mind. Happy Rosa! build on,the proud
castles of thy fancy iNothing which reality
has to offer equals the magic gifts of imagi-
nation.
Long had doubt filled her bosom, when
Hernando and Enrique so suddenly disap-
peared from Lisbon. Sharply had despair
gnawed her heart, when it at last became
known to her, as it became known to all Lis.
bonj that Hernando and Enrique were im
prisoned by the Inquisition.
Before Enrique left Portugal, he had,
through the agency of Father Domingo, sent
an epistle to her whom his soul loved. This,
together with the news that the brothers had
escaped, swept a sea of sorrow from the
maiden's heart And as should the seas be.
displaced, treasures of pearls and gold wofild
be found in their bed, at) Rosa retained one
joyful knowledge from her great affliction.
She knew now that Enrique was a secret
Israelite!               -         -
The family of Bananda had long been
Israelites. But Rosa's mother was a Chris-
tian. The gentle girl had been instructed
in-her- faith by the relatives of her father.
For several years past, she had endeavored
to prevail on her mother to adopt the faith
of her :husband and child. But not until
lately had Donna Bananda consented to be-
dome an Israelite;.-,

L  S9cO'f,          '
A suitable opeasion was only awaited tts
complete the conversion in an imposing man-,
cer, and to receive the lady among her
brethren and sisters in faith.- The feast ,bf
Passover was appointed, for that ceremony,
and Donna Bananda had,therefore, still time
to prepare herself during several months.
The introduction of the Inquisition strength.
ened Donna Bananda's resolution to become.
an Israelite. For, great and just minds ire
only attracted to, not frightened back from,'
,things they have acknowledged as, truths, by
obstacles.
Enrique had gone to Rome, and Rosa,
imagined she saw him among the chur hes
and palaces of -glorious Ro  t   ty of,
Salvation. For, though a faithful  ebrew
maiden, external custom and usage made
Rome holy to her. Every one knows the
force of custom and the strength with which
it clings to us.
A plumed hat became visible from among
the trees o'f the garden, a step was -heard,
upon the stairs, and Miguel de Sousa stood
at the side of his betrothed, Rosa di Banan.
da.
Uttering a loud cry, the maiden started up
and looked upon her cousin and bridegroom.
" Forgive me, my tender dove, forgive me I
I have startled you, by my abrupt entrance I"
and he joined his hands in the attitude of
prayer.
" Miguel de Sousa !" exclaimed Rosa.
" It is 11 For such a long time I have not
seen you, dearest! But your portrait told me-
how fair you were!"
"Cousin, when did you return ?"
"Only yesterday; I saw your mother, and
she informed me where I could find my,
sweet bride! And oh, your beauty exceeds
my expectations, as our own Portugal ex-
ceeds England."
" Migusl! This must not be. You'can
not love me !" said -Rosa, in a hurried,4one.
"We were betrothed throughethe' agency
of relatives, while hundreds of-Jedgues dis.
tant from each other. - It 's altogether' an
arrangement of convenien."
,"Air arrangement, of happiness for me,
Rosa; you mistake iff you say I love you not,
for,from earliest youth you were the darling

.s

y OR, PLOTS        AND    COUNTERPLOTs.            .          8(1
of my heart. I anm considerably older than  This appeal was more painful to Resa
you, and notuntil encouraged by your rela- than the raging of his anger would hav*
tives, did I ask your mother for your hand." been. It cut, as with sharp-edged knives
"Miguel! 'I am sincerely  attached to the most tender emotions of het boso&amp;.
you. I look up to you-almost as to a father," Still she felt that more pain yet was to'be
.--Miguel made a grimace--" but your wife, endured, in replying to him. 'Yet reply she
.oan never become."                    must. And let every emotion, every feeling
Rosa felt easier, now that she had told her of her soul be pierced and lacerated--no'
betrothed.                             matter, she possessed a balm to heal every
"And, why, in the Holy Margarita'sname ?. wound--she possessed Enrique's love.
Are we not bride and bridegroom, and has "You will find consolation for the sorrow
not his majesty, the King, proinised to at- I unwillingly inflict! God is merciful, and
tend our wedding?  What prevents you be- will bless you with the affection of a fairer
coming my wife ? I love you; I am wealthy; one than I am. But, Miguel,-I can never
I have favor; you confess loving me; your become your wife. Remember, never I" and
dowry is arranged; the day is appointed; in Rosa disappeared from the apartment.
short what can preventour wedding?"      With a cry of rage and sorrow, Miguel;
"Listen, Miguel; I love another ?"    looked after her. He possessed a dark and'
"Wha-What! Another!"                 revengeful character. - All the cunning and
1 Another, Miguel. You are too kind not hotblooded anger of the Portuguesewas his.
to yield claims, which can never be establish- All the revengeful hate of the-South slept
ed. I can never marry you, for I love in his bosom. The gate of his heart was
another."                              unclosed and headlong swept out the dark
"And never will I yield the slightest par- passions of human nature.
tiele of a claim, to another. Mine you are,  There sat Miguel de Sousa, upon the same
mine! and my wife you must become I"   balcony, and almost on the very place where
"Miguel you make yourself and me un- Enrique had declared his love. An:1 the
happy I How is it possible foryou to desire sun looked down upon him, before he sank
me as wife, when you know, Ilove you not, in the far West. And Miguel de Souae
as husband !'                          sat long and thought. At last he arose-with'
"No mat:.er ! you are my betrothed, you a look of quiet composure upon hiwfeatures;
will be my wife ! A month hence, I will and smiled up to the starlit sky with those
lead you to the alt':r, and if your lover were wicked eyes of his.
the King of France I"                    In few moments he had joined Donna Ba
"For.God's sake, for the sake of my hap- nanda in the brightly lighted saloon of the
piness, Miguel, consider I"            mansion.
"I have consideredI In your own hand
lays your happiness !"                        CHAPTER         XXIV.
Miguel approached Rosa. The first storm          M A aG A n T A.
of his anger had subsided. lie took her Let us retrace our steps, and at present,
hand and simply and plaintively said:   return to Dame Margarita Flunos, of whdm,
"I am  not any more young ; I am not the reader will recollect, we heard as -isa
handsome, Rosa. But [ love you with all prisoned with Enriqe.
the strength of a manly heart. I have not  Poor old lady, with her whimsical, afe
wasted the hours of youth, not idled aMvay tions and kind heart, enclosed as they Vere
thedays of manhood, in serving fini ladies. in the' prim angular body of an old ,maid4
But with all the love of a true heare,'t love Imagine her in the dark prison of Ainta
you; with all the despair of-a blighted and Cruz. Alternately raving and nursing her
despised affection you will overwh elm me by wrath in silence, praying and disconsolately
your refusal-to become my wife. Will you crying, she passed the night, during whieh
make me-unhappy?"                      the brothers escaped.  And in the tumult

a


88

of his emotions, at his reconciliation with loves me; and-heis-agood'Christian, so help
Hernando, Enrique had quite forgotten the me St. Margarita de Villa Franca, my patron
venerable spinster, that had t nursed him saint I"
inhis sickness.                         Even around the thin lips of Cardinal Sa-
Ah ! laugh, young men, at old, staid ladies, velli a suppressedsmile curled, as he heard
with their habits, customs, and manners of the former part of this answer. -.But when
half century ago, with their primness and St. Margarita was mentioned, he crossed
their curious notions I When sickness af- himself devoutly. What a diference be.
fiets the frame there is no hand so skillful tween the proud Cardinal Inquisitoi and the
in administering medicines; when fever de. poor chambermaid, in all respects! Yet
yours the blood, there is no hand so soft and they had the same superstition, in common.
cooling; whensorrow strikes the heart there  "Woman! before you give testimony in
is no voice so tender and consoling. Res behalf of others, prove first to us that you
poet, then, love those old, staid ladies; and are yourself a good Christian."
may their race never die out.             "'Your holiness can not doubt that."
We will leave it to the reader's imagina-  "What is your name?" inquired a seere.
tion to portray the morning, with its sur- tary, to whom the Cardinal signed to pro-
prise, anger and search. No prisoner could ceed in the examination.
be discovered but dame Margarita. An im. " Margarita Flunos, born in honest wed.
mediate search was instituted for the fugi- look of my parents, in the village of Pecosa."
tives, and Father Domingo  directed  the  "Your station?"
search. But, unfortunately, all the trouble  "Waiting woman to her highness the
of the Father was in vain, and, at noon, he Countess di Solani! . And a good servant I
reported to his Eminence the Cardinal Sa have been to my noblh lady."
velli, that the fugitives had probably fled be-  "How came you be in company with the
yond the reach of Portuguese justice, for no heretic Enrique di Costa?"
trace could be discovered of them. Both   "It is not proper to relate all about it."
the Cardinal and his secretary, the Father  "We must know all!"
Domingo, regretted this circumstance very Margarita remained silent.
much.   But the secretary especially was  The Cardinal gave a sign, and a curtain at
loud in his expressions of rage and sorrow.  the end of the apartment was withdrawn.-
His Eminence then ordered the remain- There stood, prettily arranged racks with
ing prisoner, dame Margarita, tobe brought their saws of polished steel, screws and .in.
before him.                             struments of torture of every kind; cords
She appeared.                         and iron clasps with sharp points. The in-
Fear and awe had broken Margarita'shigh struments had not been used for some time.
spirit. The dungeon, the priests, the great Some of them had a pretty clean look about
Cardinal, in whose presence she now was then, to others adhered portions of human
led, even more by their spiritual greatness skin, hardened to a horny mass, by time.
tha by their physical terrors, awed her.  Margarita screamed and pressed her hands
The Cardinal threw back his head, and to her eyes.
questioned in a slow, haughty voice:     "Mercy! Merey I"
"Woman! what is thy connection with   "How came you to be in the unbeliever's
those infidel brothers, da Costa?"  -   company?"
-None; your holiness, none, " cried poor  "He abducted me. His love was- so vio-
Margarita, "except- "            '      lent, that -he abducted me. , He took me to a
"Except what?" repeated t-e Cardinal fine castle on the sea gile and wo staid there
R Except, that the younger brother loves a long time. One day he fell from a rock
mie -"' spake out Margarita, bravely, for into the water, and when he was drawn oqt
where she believed her affections were en- he was very sick-the gogd youth. Then I
gaged, she was bold and courageous,-"he took care of him, ever so well, for, many

I

OR, PLOTS 'AND COUNTER-PLO'S.

days. And after this, we returned to Lis
bon, where he doubtless wanted to marry
ne, when we were taken prisoners. "
-"4This is an improbable tale. You must
state the truth."
"I can not affirm any thing else, for that
is the truth."
"Then you maintain to have been the
mistress of Enrique di Costa?"
"No, holy Father! Our love was chaste
and pure. I am no lewd woman. I de.
serve every praise for so long resisting temp.
tations, and-"
"Take her back, " ordered the Cardinal.
The truth of Margarita's statement, as far
as could be, was ascertained, and the grey-
headed chambermaid was sent back to her
mistress.
It is a few days after the return of Dame
M rgarita to the summer pavilion.
She is in the garden with a group of ser
vants around.
Margarita is repeating something that calls
up agood many smiles fromthe younger part
of her audience.
"See this necklace of gold, worth at least
a hundred broad pieces; this is a present
from my lover! Ah I you may smile young
ones, but it will be long ere you get as rich a
lover as I have had. The day will come
when Margarita Flunoz will be a lady. Yes
you child, you needn't lbe proud of the
plumed page I found in your room one
night,-" Maria grew scarlet and ran away,
"mine wears finer plumes and golden chains
than yours can ever get"'
"And what is the name of your lover, ny
fne dame?" inquired the jealous Matteo.
-Nargarita's vanity would not let her con-
cea it.
"Enrique da Costa," she said loudly, "a
1fir name, and a noble one."
A middle aged man was just passing, and
about to enter the summer pavilion.'
It was Miguel di Sousa.   I
He had informed himself, partly by bri-
bing the servants, partly by conversation
with Rosa's mother, who the lover of his be
trothed was.
He now heard this name mentioned, by
an aged female servant to a crowd of other

87

'servants. He walked back slowly and heard
her affirm:
" Don Enrique abducted me, and him I
expect to come -back and makeme aDonnal"
" Don't be foolish, Margarita," said the
footman Matteo.
"Foolish? Is it you who are the greater
fool, or I?"  Then remembering her digpi-
ty, as the loved one of a noble, the dame
added: "speak respectfully to your. superi-
ore, Matteo."
The poor footman's heart was breaking.
Miguel di Sousa pulled Margarita by the
sleeve.
".Senora, I wish to have a talk with you,"
he said.
Margarita proudly tossed up her head to-
wards her fellow servants, and said to Mi.
guel, with a smirk and grin:
"I am at your service, senor!"
"I wish to talk to you alone, senora!"
"Then follow me, senor!"  She led him
to her apartment.
" You spoke about one Enrique da Costa
-is he your lover?"
"If you please, senor, yes!  He loves
me !"
"Can you prove that?"
"Well enough; for before he left Lisbon,
he abducted me, and took me along."
" Impossible!"
"But it is possible, senor!"
" What could a gay young noble want with
an old hag like you!"
"Senor, do you want to insult ne ?"
"No, my good woman, " and he pressed
several gold pieces into Margarita's palm.
" What do you wish, senor," said the paci
fled chambermaid, "I can not be untrue to
my lover."
" I do not wish you to. But I must have
you do me a favor of a different kind."
" What do you require, senor?"
" There is a lady, a near relation of mine,
to whom this perfidious Enrique, has been
audacious enough to proffer vows of love."
"What do you say, senor ? . Oh my
heart!" and the poor maiden grew pale.
" It is so, I assure you. Now, I wish to
dispel the illusions of this lady, and, there,
fore, want you to tell her that Enrique da

'rB$ FATAL M110RTT,


88                       T .EN   A T -A
Cota's, affections ,are previously engaged,
and that her love is hopeless. Thus your
perfidious lover, will be brought-back to your
feet; and my young relative will give up her
thoughts of him."
"St. Margarita di Monte! I will do what
you say. --I will assure the lady she has no
hope, of Enrique's heart."
"IWhen can you accompany me to her
dwelling, my good dame?"
"Let me see ! to-morrow eve would be the
best time!      .
'AAnother thing ! the lady must not know
who her favored rival is. Else you have
much to fear, for she is revengeful."
"How can I help her seeing me. Do not
expose ine to any danger," for Margarita re.
membered yet vividly the dungeons of Santa
Cruz.,                        -
"1I will do what I can. Cover your fea-
tures with a black mask, and there is no. fear
of detection. You see I am eareful that no
harm shall come to you."
' Thank-you, sesorl I shallfollow your
advice!"
"Dress yourself richly too, senora! Thus
I hope you will successfully set the mind of
my young relative aright. Where shall- I
meet you to-morrow night?"
"In the rear of the pavilion, I think!"
"Very well; at what time?",
"Just after dusk. - I can trust you, senor!'
"You caI    Farewell, till to-morrow
night !" and the noble, pressing five more
pieces into Margarita's hand, disappeared.
He went to.make his visit to the Countess
diVoga
Margarta smiled and counted the gold
pieces.
"To regain a lover, save a young lady,
get-eight gold pieces-and who knows- how
many more-is not doing badly. Oh perfid-
ious Enrique!",
'CHAPTER XXV.
(r. oRIA   A ND  DIEGO.
The sentence-had been pronounced. Don
Diego w#s doomed to death.
-Kihg-had rejected every overture and
offer, which the Duke di Asambuja had
pade, and finally sent back the messenger

OR, PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS.

with these terms:: His Majesty, Joan the,
Third, King of Portugal, will pardon the
Duke di Asambuja, and, forgetting his past
offences, allows him, to retain his dignities'
and titles, on consideration that he immedi-
ately disperse his people, and in no manner
whatever continue to countenance or aid the.
traitor, Antonio di Castro, '
These terms were accepted, and the Duk.p
hastened to town, to throw himself at the
King's feet, and entreat a pardon forhis son.
The Kingfhad coldly turned away from
the Duke and dismissed him without an an-
swer-
The Duke, frantic with anxiety, clasped
the King's knees, and conjured him to have
mercy,
Juan had wavered, and, moved by his o4
servant's entreaties, promised to send an
answer to him,before night.
-The Duke had to be stisfied with this.
Juan had then visited the Vountes di
Voga, and, advised. and influenced by her,
despatched to the Duke this answer:
"The King, upon mature consideration,
has thought best not to arrest the course of
justice in this instance."
The Countess had also requested an order
for admittance to the prison of Don Diego,
whieh.the King, although unwillingly, and
with some hesitation, had granted.
Nevertheless, on leaving Donna Gloria,
hip majesty gave some orders about the exel
cutton, the purport of which we will hereafter
discover.
The evening of the day before that, on
which Don, Diego was to be executed, has'
arrived.
The sky was covered with intense black-
ness; purplish and yellow vapors, like those
of a conflagration, filled the air. Thretten-
ingly muttered the faint thunder, and a
dreadful calm, pressed like lead upon the
earth. The leaves of, trees hung unmoved,
and the waters of the Tagus and the sea
presented a concave surface, so heavy was
the compressed air. Not a flake of foam,
curled around, the cliffs, so quiet was the
sea.
A wall of livid blackness advanced rapid-
ly from the West, driving before it a long

along by the gale, and thrown down upon
habitations and houses, with tremendous
force. The air was filled with clouds of
minute spray, which, with the force of shot,
beat against and broke windows and light
structures. And, above all, was the deaf-
ening roar of the storm and the sea. '
The storms upon the Portuguese coasts
are terrific. The winds sweep across the
wide plain of the Atlantic ocean, the waves
drive unappeased across thousands of miles
of sea, and wind and waves spend their whole
agcumulated force in chafing against the
r ky bridle of Portugal. If lashed to fury,
the reader will understand the power with
which storms beat about that land.
Suddenly a hoarse and rumbling uoise
crept along the ground. The noise of
the storm had aroused mother Earth. She
shook and heaved in convulsive spasms.-
The Earth quaked. In a moment, towers
and steeples had - tumbled over. Whole
villages were lifted by the soil on which
they stood, and tossed into the river. Islands
were buried beneath the waves. Hills sank
and valleys became mountains. The storm
howled with tenfold fury.
Ships in the harbor were swallowed up.--
The wharves disappeared beneath masses
of foam. The sea ranged over the land, and
created lakes where mountains had been.
People prayed. Not a house in Lisbon,
in which the inhabitants were not congre-
gated in the cellars, and offered up prayers
and supplications. Fear and anguish stir-
red up every soul. Yet, in Liebon little harm
12

1- '         S

I

line of snow white foam. It broke upon the
cliffs. A sheet of blue fire rent th heav-
ens. A,deafening crash of thunder shook
the clouds. The storm had burst in all its
fury upon the Portuguese coast.
The seas broke loose. The waves lifted
up their voice, and roared to the hissing yell
of the wind. The beetling rocks were upheav.
ed, and tossed aloft upon the head of the bil-
lows. Again and again, crashes of thunder
and hissing lightnings tore across the sky.
The Tagus rose, and, with the fury of a sea,
swept away, the inns and houses that garn-
ished its banks. Uprooted trees were borne

was done. The villages upon the coast suf-
fered most.
Toward twelve o'clock at night the storm
subsided. The earthquake had but once
shaken the ground and was gone.
The air grew more quiet. The sea ceased
its efforts, Yet the water tossed in dread-
ful agitation still. The wind had whipi
up its lowest sands and shells, and cast them
upon the land, and it lashed wrathfully
against the shore, in efforts to regain them.
Then a window of the summer pavilion
was opened, and Gloria looked out. '
" The storm has subsided," she said, turn-
ing to MarialFlunoz. "We willgo now."
" For the Holy Saviour's sake, do not go.
out on this dreadful night," cried Maria.'-
" We will be crushed by falling chimneys
and rafters."
"I must see him, gi . If you do not ac-
company me, I will   lone."         I
" No, senora, if you go, Maria will pecom-
pany you."
"I hoped so; and now, Maria, since I
know not what may be the events of this
night, let me at any rate provide for your
future."
" Oh, Donna!"
"Here is a necklace of pearls worth a
small fortune. This will give you and Fi-
daro the means of establishing yourself,
when you marry."
Marialhung her head.
,Fidaro.loves me not."
Yes, he does," said Gloria.  Do not
distrust him, for he is myfriend."
Maria took the pearls and, with tears of
gratitude, kissed her mistress' hand.
This was the only explanation in regard
to Fidaro, that ever passed betweenthe lady
and her chambermaid.
"Now let us go, MariaI
" Forgive me, lady. But, oh, go to-mor-
row !"
"To-night it must be; order the chair to
be ready."
Maria went out and told the servants.-
Astonished at this freak of the Countess,
they looked at each other: But Maria, re-
peating the order,-it was quickly obeyed.
Gloria then descended from her apart-

AL   E CR -E T,-

89.


90)                Tn  FA.TAL SacanT,

ments., The Countess was wrapped in al
large robe of black color, lined throughout
with, fur. A heavy houd covered her head.
.A clumsy kind of litter, or ,sedan chair,
was held by four sable Africans. Six ser-
vants bearing torches surrounded it. The
sedan was covered with heavy gilding.
Gloria motioned an upper servant, who
was armed,to approach.
Bear me to the Castle !" she said.
He made a, silent obeisance, but his as-
tonished eyes expressed the wonder, he dare
not express audibly.
Gloria, followed by her chambermaid,
now entered the litter, and they were borne
rapidly away.
The wind extinguished the torches al-
most immediately, and the rain, beginningg
to pour, deluged the servants and litter
bearers. Great streams of water gushed
from the top and sides of the sedan, and
even leaked through, here and there.
At last they were before the Castle. The
servants hailed the sentinel, but it was long
ere their voices could be heard, above the
shrill and mighty whistle of the wind.
At last the soldier, who kept watch upon
the wall, heard them, and asked:
"Who is there ?"
"The Countess di Voga!"
"What does she want?"
The servants looked at Gloria,
"An express order. from his wrajesty, to
see Don Diego di Azambuja; " she said,
and the-servants repeated it, to the soldier.
There was some shouting and noise, and
at last the officer of the watch ascended the
wall.
The same questions were asked, and the
Same answers given.
"I will tell the governor," said the offi.
cer.
The governor was called.
He hadbeen prepared for Gloria's visit.by
a message, on the day previous, but had not
expected her so late.
The gates were opened and the train of
the Countess admitted intosthe courtyard.
The-, governor. inspected Gloria's order,
and then led her into his own apartments.
An, unusual.activity seemed to prevail in

the castle at this late hour. Lights stream..
ed from most of the windows, the soldiers
were all assembled in their barrack: rooms,
and the officers all awake and walking about
in the great hall, talking in whispers.
"Admit me to the prisoner, immediately,"
she said.
" As your excellency wishes," was the
reply.
And commanding two servants, they walk.
ed before them, bearing torches, toward the
prisons of the old Castle. Gloria, leaning on
the governor's arm, followed.
They came to the Western towers. Door
after door was unlocked by the obsequious
turnkey.           -
" Your excellency wishes to see Don Die.
go alone?" inquired the governor,
"Alone! " replied Gloria.
Another door was unlocked and they en-
tdred the chapel of the castle, which,by this'
way, communicated with the prisons, but
could also be entered from the courtyard
and great hall.
Both the latter entrances were now, how.
ever, securely closed.
"The prisoner is at his prayers," whisper.
ed the governor.
The chapel was quite dark, except, near
the altar, where foir torches shed a dim
light over a gigantic cross of brass, before
which two men kneeled. At their side, in
his clerical robes, stood Father Marcus
The governor signed to the priest. He
approached.
"This lady wishes to speak with Don Di-
ego, alone."
Marcus turned a scrutinising eye upon
Gloria. She slightly lifted her hood.
He recognized her.
"Very well," said he. "But, lady, will
you not hear me for a moment now? I
have to ask you for something."
Now?"
"Yes, if you please. It will take but a'
moment."
The governor discreetly retired, with his
attendants.
" What is it then ?" inquired Gloria, half -
vexed. "I owe you the granting of a favor.",
"I will avail myself of it now. Lady,,Voa

OR, PLOTS A X D-COUN T-ERP LOTS.          -            91
exert a bad influence upon the King. You a mass of sunshine pouring across a dark-
have caused him to sentence this young ened sea.
man. You need great sums of money. You    "It is Gloria di Gomez. Recollect you,
have been an evil adviser tb Don Juan. You our last parting, Don Diego di Azambuja?"
.have prevented an advantageous foreign al-  Oh, how cold and watchful were those
liance, which the King would also have con- brilliant eyes, as they rested upon his coen'-
tracted. In short, the favor which you owe tenance.
I
me, which I claim, is your removal from   "That dreadful night!" exclaimed the
court, from Portugal if possible."      young noble in a faltering voice.
Presumptuous!                          "On, no, not dreadful! It was merely an
I speak in behalf of the people !    opportune interference. A noble father,"-
Gloria stopped, thought for a moment or and Gloria turned a lightning glance upon
two, and then said slowly and sadly:   the old Duke,- " a noble father saving an
" To-morrow, I will answer you, Pater; inexperienced son,. from all the horrors of an
leave us alone now."                    alliance with a decayed and poor house.-
Pater Marcus left the chapel.         Not dreadful; no indeed! For Diego, it was
Now Gloria gathered all her energies, all a happy occurrence!
her pride, and all her exultation; she roused  Gloria, oh do not speak in this strain.-
all her passions, and, tingling with triumph, You know that my heart's first love was
walked through the chapel to where Don yours I Aid it is yours still."
Diego knelt in prayer at the side of his sob.  Oh your heart is mine, assuredly; and
bing father.                            Donna Menezes ? and Miranda Perez ? "
- Now sle stood behind them; but. both  "How   came you to know of them?-
were so absorbed, in their prayers and emo Gloria, was it my fault, that I was dragged
tions, that they did not perceive her. from you on that night?"
She threw down her cloak and hood, and  "And neverreturned to inquire the fate of
she had again assumed her bridal garments, one, who had thrown away all for you!"
the dress in whih we first beheld her.   Gloria s voice faltered at thee last words.
the re ofnwhitefrsatinhitglde -'I was placed at court; it was impos-"
The robe of' white satin, with its gold em-  " Enough of this. I lay fainting in the
broidery, flowed around  her in graceful ch   nug orni. 1las tainag    nd
fols.  iamndsflshe  upn hr amschapel till morning. I was taken away and
folds.  Diamonds flashed upon her arms plcd nacovn.1       I fasted and knelt in
and neck; white roses wreathed her hair.I placed in a convent.Ifaedndkltn
and eck;whie roes  create  er hir. dark penitential vaults throughout the lotig
She stepped forward and clasping one nights. Suffered the  strand   the con
armaroundndcross,stood before father vent, the torture of the living grave, the
Both half rose much astonished.       HELL of disappointed love for seven yearsI
"The Countess di Vogas " cried the Duke But you were at court; it was impossible to
of Azambu-a.-                   t       remember one, to whom every manly oath
and obligation bound you!
Don Diego hesitated for a moment, and   "    G-   ie
then throwing himself at the lady's feet,   loria.   Diego sunk down at these
murmured softly:-                       accusations.
murmured sow    "loriaAnd after seven long years, Heaven had
Gloria, my own Gloria!               mercy on me! I returned to the world,
For a moment, there was uninterrupted and, driven by your crime, a Gomez became
silence throughout the chapel. Then Diego, the mistress of the King ! -  Nowrevenge
arising approached the Countess.        revenge, was my aim. I discovered your
Do I dream ?  No, really it is my own plot. As Fidaro, I accompanied you to the
lady love, that has come to sweeten the last chapel of St. Jago, and to your palace. I
hour of life!" Iinformed the King. Through me you were
He took her unresisting hand, as a host taken prisoner.  g influence has caused
of happy memories swept over his soul, like you to be sentenced to death, and now I


.   92                        TD s-FATA
come to gloat my eyes on the victims of re-
venge I
"Oh God !" cried Dieso.
"Ah, old man!1" and Gloria turned to the
Duke; "when you left me fainting and ru-
ined upon the floor of the dhapel, it never
entered your mind that one day that pale
girl should bow you to the earth ! that she
would-" Gloria stopped. Her eyes were
shining like those of an angry tigress. Her
breath came short.  A beautiful flake of
foam hung upon her fresh, scrlet lips. A
Goddess could not have ;been more beauti-
ful than she was, at that moment.
" Mercy !" cried the Duke, "mercy for
my son! Ihave offendedyou; I have merited
your anger; let me die, but save my son!
save the prop of my house!"
Gloria was exhausted. She replied not.
"Oh, loria I" said  Don Diego, "your
picture a ways dwelled in my heart. I-knew-
naught of your fate, until qaite lately, and'
then all inquiry vas met by the stern refu-
sals of your relatives ! Oh, Gloria, in this
my dying hour, when no earthly hand can
save me any more, I swear that r love you
truly,really, although your hand has brought
me to the block!
We are, emphatically, the creatures of
impulse. Impulse has more to do with our
decisions, than the much boasted of reason of
man.
Gloria was softened. In spite of her rea-
sons to hate him, her m'ich desired revenge,
the language of Don Diego, the dimly light.
ed chapel, the fate impending over him, all
exercised their influence on her. And in
spite of the reproaches she had meditated,
the taunts she had prepared, pity, perhaps,
even resurrected love, now rose sweetly in
her heart.
"1Can it be so ? Do you love me still ?"
His only reply was an embrace, which
Gloria permitted.
"Will you wed me, Diego?"
"Am I At doomed to die ?   I can but
bid you farewell!"
"1But if 1 can save you?"
"You are my wife, by the honor of a no-
blet" *
"You must be saved then ! Not a mo-

.           ,(

4*

l

L SECRET,
meant is to be lost I go to the King-he has
promised to grant me a favor, whatever it is.
-I will wake him-Diego you must besaved
at the eleventh hour !"g
" For God's sake hasten, dear lady!"
cried the Duke.
"I go; Diego, I save you from death, that
you may become my husband. Farewell I'
One more embrace, in which both hearts
gushed with the recollections of the love of
golden youth, and Gloria, tearing herself
away, ran without assuming her eloak, to the
door.
The governor hastened to open. She was
conducted through halls and down stairca-
ses to the court.
This took considerable time, for the castle
was large.
When Gloria was about to enter her lit-
ter, the bell of the chapel began to ring
slowly.
"What means this bell, my lord ? " in-
quired the Countess, anxiously.
"1I am not at liberty to disclose it, mad-
am i"
"I command you! " Then softly entreat-
ing,   pray you, senor !"
The governor approached and whispered:
"The King wished to spare to a noble
family like that of Azambuja, the disgrace
of a public execution I"
" And, for God's sake, senor, proceed!"
almost screamed Gloria.
" And ordered Don Diego to be executed
during the night. This is the signal."
With a cry of extreme anxiety, Gloria
sank to the ground. But immediately she
rose again, and ran swiftly back into the cas-
tle. Up stairs, along passages, madly groan-
iig, she ran into the chapel; it was empty.
She heard voices; following their direc-
tion, she entered another room. Light beam-
ed through the door below. It opened upon
a staircase of stone, that descended into a
great hall.
Gloria stood upon the upper landing of
the staircase. Below were a crowd of sol-
diers, a black scaffold in their midst,.a man
upon the scaffold. A sword flashed inthe air,
and with a dull noise fell Don Diego's head
upon the stone floor. Streams of blood del-
uged the hall.

OR, PLoTs AND
6loria, unconscious with terror, lost her
balance, fell down, hung for a moment over
the side of the unguarded banisterless land-
ing, threw her arms wildly about, and fell
down upon the stone floor at the side of
Don Diego's head. The fall had fractured
her scull in various places. She was dead.
A dreadful silence reigned for a moment,only
broken by the gushing murmurof blood.
Then the Duke di Azambuja rose, threw
his arms aloft, and laughed wildly. The
events of the night had deranged his reason.
He was insane.
CHAPTER XXVI.
ROME.
"Romaruitlsuisviribus!"*  She has fallen,
but even in her grave, the memory of em'
pire hangs over her.
O 1 Queen, onthe seven hills, how beauti.
ful art thou ! They could tear the crown of
the world from thy brow, but they could not
rob thee of the splendid wreath which the
God of nature placed there. They could
take the purple from thy shoulders, but
could not banish the halo of art and poetry,
in which thou art wrapped. They could take
the sceptre from thy hand, but the fine arts
rule still in thee.
Three hills of the seven remain to Rome.
The rest are dedicated to the memory-are
the grave yard-of the World's Empress.-
Many pillars of shining marble still raise
their finely carved heads-but the roof they
supported has fallen ! Many massive fa.
cades still line the deserted streets-but
the houses they fronted, are dus6 Triumph-
al arches, and monuments of the heroes of
the Empire look upon the ruins of their lov-
ed city.
And the yellow Tiber flows on, the flowers
bloom and the trees green-what knows na-
ture of the changes that pass over the des-
tinies of men? And in the bright sunlight,
and the soft moonshine, the spiritof ancient
Rome wails amongst the gigantic ruins.
Hernando and Enrique walked in the
light of the setting sun, amongst these ruins.
The elder brother with a face of proud ex-
*Horace.

CoUN TERPLoTs.                     93
ultation, Enrique with a quiet and saddened
flush upon his brow.
" There is the grave of our proud enemy;
of our destroyer 0' cried Hernando. " She
did not die in her strength, in her glory, de-
fended by heroes, mourned by prophets.-
But lived to be old, dishonored, scoffed, scorn-
ed, to be dragged through every quagmire
of disgrace, to suffer all and every pain en-
tailed by her sins and excesses. And her
mis-begotten offspring, red Popedom, dances
and laughs over her grave, dishonors her
bones, scatters her dust to the winds! "
" That is her reward! How dreadfully
she suffered ere she died, how well she was
punished, history tells.-That same history
which records our continued existence-a
type of our eternal life beyond the grave !"
"I cannot rejoice, upon these ruins, over
the fall of our enemy. The remnants are
grand and melancholy. Rome may have
been cruel, she was also great. Oh, how
beautiful! Come, my brother, ,step updn
this marble pedestal and look with me !"
"1 hate these ruins, with their beauty and
grandeur! From them went the order to
destroy Jerusalem. These pillars bore the
roof under which plans for our dispersion,
were concocted. I would pollute them and
grind them to dust, as I would throw dirt
upon the grave of a cruel foe."
Hernando, pressed by the heat, had ta-
ken off his hat, and as he stood there with
frowning brow, and wildly gleaming eyes,
his mouth compressed and head thrown back,
the scarlet light glowing upon his face and
black glossy hair, an angel of vengeance
seemed to have stepped from the earth and
apostrophised the marble ruins. Above him,
upon the pedestal, stood Enrique-beautiful.
ly pale, with soft, pious eyes raised to heav-
en, with light, sun-gilded hair hanging upon
his white throat, like an angel of peace
some from heaven. There could not be more
difference in the person of these two broth-.
ers, than in their character.
Hernando, seeing that he was unheeded'
by Enrique, also mounted the pedestal where-
on his brother stood, and in a softer mood
throwing his arm around Enrique's neck,
looked around.


94                        T  E FA T A
The scene was superbly bright. Far in
the west, folds of scarlet and golden clouds
hung around the flaming sun.
The soft, richly tinted light 'flooded over
the dreamy Italian view, and pouring a
heavenly glory upon the marble palaces and
gilded steeples of proud Rome, fell with a
saddened glow upon the ruins beyond.
Wtth its battlements clearly defined
against the scarlet and azure air, stood the
castle of San Angelo. The marble statue of
agigantic angel, which surmounts it, seem-
ed just alighted from the clear sky above.-
St. Peter's lifted its dome, rich, fanciful, and
majestic to the clouds. No edifice, perhaps,'
impresses the beholder more with a feeling
of awe and devotion, than St. Peter's
church. There, architecture speaks in a lan-
guage of power, that fails not to be beard in
the heart.. Near it the splendid Vatican, on
every side, the thousand glorious churches
with Grecian pillars, Roman ornaments and
Gothic arches, with marble and gilded stee-
ples, pointing aloft; the basilicas with their.
odd vaults, the pillars, gigantic statues, and
the millions of objects that can not be grasp-
ed at once by the eye of man.
Behind, the remains of the old city, the
Coliseum, the temples, the theatres, the bous-
es, often with the broken pillars of the peri'
tyle still erect, with the arrow vesibula
still leading into the atrium, long no more,
with the defaced remains of the Lares, or
household gods, amongst the ruins, where
they were adored, and which they were de-
signed to protect. Oh how sadly fell the
light upon the latter.
This picture, which we have endeavored
to bring before the mind of the readers, as
it was before Enrique and Hernando's
eyes, was surrounded and varied with the
pearly foliage of Italian trees and woods.
The brothers were unspeakably softened
by the view. Rernando's face was serene,
until his eye lighted upon a dark spot near
the Tiber.
"Ah," he cried, frowning, "and amidst
"this beautiful view, a ghetto, a place of filth,
darkness and abomination is provided foi
the Jew! Look you there, my brother, and
see the drop of poison in this large cup o
beauty !" and he pointed to it.

L MaC RET,
Well it was for the brothers, that they
conversed in Portuguese. For, not far from
them, behind a ruin, sat an humble servant
of the church.
All at once, every church seemed to have
opened its mouth, and the thousand tongues,
of Rome, the sweet bells, poured the melody
of their voices upon the evening air.
"Come, brother," said Hernando, "we
are soon to have our private audience; let
us go home and prepare."
The two brothers went, arm in arm, from
the ruins into the city. They walked to the
palace of Monsignore Mezzani, who was
their host. The Cardinal Mezzani was him.
self an Israelite, and, therefore, best suited,
by his inclinations as -*ell as by the favor
he enjoyed with the Pope, to further the ob-
jects of the brothers.,s
"Prepare yourself," said the Cardinal, a
venerable old man with a long, black gown
and scull cap; "the Holy Father has inform'
ed me, that he will see you at dusk. Every
. moment you may expect a message." '
"Do you not accompany us, Father?"
"No, my sonI Have you the presents
ready ? They are of prime importance."
"We have," replied Hernando.
The brothers returned to their apartments,
to attire themselves properly.
They were soon notified that a papal at-
tendant had arrived.
Under his guidance they proceeded to the
Vatican.
First rode the papal officer. Upon his
velvet jerkin were the arms of the Holy See.
lin glitteringgold. Then followed llernan-
do and Enriqu richly attired in velvet and
satin. Behind them rode ten servants, in
gorgeous- livery, each bearing a stout well
'8 0
filled bag,splendidly embroidered.  The
bags contained. five thousand heavy gold
Pieces each.
,In two fihes, so as to enclose the money
bearers, arched about thirty papal soldiers.
t They were designed, partly as a protdction
to the treasure, partly as a guard of honor.
r   In this order the brothers arrived at the
d Vatican-.              .            I
f  Without being allowed time to look about
and admire the splendor of that palace, they

I

OR, PLOTS AND COUNT.ERPLOTS.       95

were forthwith led into the presence of the
Pope.
The Holy Father sat upon an elevated
chair, at the end of one of those apartments,
made immortal by the pencil of Italy's mas-
ter painters.
Clement VIII was an old man of com-
manding presence. The proud beauty, so-
peculiar to the princely house of Medici,
still lingered upon his features. But age
had softened that outline of almost sculptur-
ed exactness, had washed away the delicacy
of the proportions, and blanched the
haughty brow. A velvet scull-cap, lined
with fur, covered his head. He was clad in
a long, black tunic, with a broad scarf
around his waist. A cape, or a mantle of
velvet, lined with fur, was fastened in front,
and hung over his shoulders to the hips.-
The sleeves of his tunic were wide, and em-
broidered with lace.0
His dress was in many places ornamented
with crosses. Upon the high back of his
chair were carved, in wood and gilded, the
papal arms-the tiara and keys. They were
also embroidered upon the cushion serving
as a stool- Tassels of seed pearls adorned
that cushion at the corners.
Hernando and Enrique knelt, and kissed
the cross, which was embroidered upon the
slipper of his Holiness.
" Benedicite, meiflii," said his Holiness,
ima full, impressive voice.
" What is your errand to the Holy See?"
"We are humbly commissioned by the
New Christians of Portugal, to present these
monies to the treasury of the Church;" said
.Hernando, and with a slight backward mo.
tion of his hand, he pointed to the bags of
doubloons, which had been placed by the
bearers in the lower part of the hall.
"It is a payment for 'indulgencies, as we
have committed many sins."
*'We hope that you repent of them, mio
caro."
- Assuredly. Do St. Peterfind St. Paul par-
don the sins of us misguided mortals?"
"We will pray for you,and thus assure gra.
clam coeli, divine pardon. in nomine Patri,
flii et spi ritus sancti, I absolve ye, as repre.
sentatives of the New Christians, in Portu-
gal! ' May your sins be struck out from the

book of St. Peter and St. PaulI " and each
of the brothers kneeling, the Pontiff slightly
raised his hand, and said to each separately:
" Absolve teI"
The brothers bent low their heads; as the
redeeming words were pronounced by the
Head of the Church.
The Holy Father rose. Cardinal Mezzani
then motioned to the brothers who, with low
reverence, went backward out of the hall.-
A papal secretary was in waiting.   He
handed them the written absolution of the
Pontiff. It was signed by Clement and seal-
ed with the arms of theHoly See.
The brothers returned to the house of the
Cardinal and, having now executed their
mission, prepared to return.
Yet there was one more secret mission,
which they had been ordered to perform.
It was concerning the Cardinal Savelli.-
They had procured assurances from the
highest sources, that Savelli had never been
sent to Portugal, that he was no Cardinal,
that his documents were forged.
S'the fetters of Pater Domingo were deliv-
ered to the Cardinal, who returned to the
brothers the written assurance of his Holi-
ness, that Savelli was an impostor.
The brothers had also received epistles to
the Inquisitor General of Spain, in which
his spiritual superiors exhorted him to ar-
rest and condemn the mAn who forged a
Cardinal's title, and assumed an office not
given him by the Holy See.
The written assurance of the Pontiff was
couched in these words:
We hereby inform our well-beloved son,
Juan of Portugal, that the priest Savelli pose
sesses no authority from our hand to act, a
we have been informed he does.
CLEMENTT"
The other letters were more explicit, and
urged the peculiar crime of Savelli, and hia
speedy deposition and punishment.
Ere many days had passed, the brothers
were safely embarked on board of the same
Dutch vessel. The wind was fair,pnd the *
sunny shores of Italy vanished in the dis-
tance, concealed by a haze of azure e nd
gold.

4


96              -         TEE FATAL
CHAPTER        XXVII'.           on3
T HE  WILY LOVER.              ey
Margarita, true to her appointment, awaited
Don Miguel di Sousa in the rear of the pa.
vision, as dusk began to pour a tinge of lu.
cid obscurity over the sky, and the air.  da
She was attired in a silken robe, belong- p
ing to the Countess di Solani. A plumed an
gear covered her head,and a black mask con- Cc
sealed her features.  A scarf of Indian a
muslin hung over her shoulders.        c
It was night ere Don Miguel arrived.
"I have waited long," began the: impa- kt
tient Margarita.,a
"I could not come sooner," replied Don
Miguel. "A  few streets distant a litter b
awaits you, dame."
He took her hand and led her alongin
w
such a gallant style, that the old lady's heart at
beat high, and she stepped as daintily and
briskly, as a maiden of eighteen.     li
The litter was reached, and the dame en- o
tered it. Miguel mounted a horse and rode
behind, directing the slaves, where to bear it. s
Safely arrived at Belem, it was set dowe y4
a'u the inn of St. Ignatio, and the good dame, i
under the guidance of the noble, entered
the palace of Donna Bananda, and the apart- y
ments of Rosa.
Rosa lay upon a low couch, covered wit h
bright colored cloth of Indian manufacture. I
From the ceiling depended a silver lamp,
filled with perfumed oil.*t
The young lady seemed unconscious of h
the entrance of her betrothed and the dame.
Her face was buried in her hands, and the9
long, glossy hair, being loosened by her agi- n
tation, fell in many masses around her. 1
"Speak softly,' whispered Miguel to hisd
companion. Then approaching Iosa, he
endeavored to take her hand, and said:
"My dear, why do you grieve? These t
young gallants are but triflers, and delights
to flirt, that they may boast of a lady's fa-
vor, to their drinking companions. I knew
, this. But your inexperienced heart yielded
to the honeyed words of one of these butter-
flies-"C
" He is a man, and a true one ! I do not
believe you! It is all -" her eye lighting,

...      --    11   - --    -   -

1

J

iS OR T,
a margarita, she stopped, and drying her
es, inquired:
" Who is this?"
" Mar-"
"A lady," Miguel hastened to say, ere the
me by habit used to answer this question,
oiled every thing by disclosing her name
id condition, "alady, to whom Enrique da
costa has made the same assurance of love,
id offers, with which he seems to have
ught your fancy."
"Can this be so? who are you ?"
"The lady wishes not her name to be
known, but she is of very high condition,"
gain observed Miguel.
" Enrique da Costa, on flying from Lis-
on, was accompanied by this lady."
" Indeed," Margarita continued, " his love
as so violent, that almost involuntarily he
abducted mq."
" It is all a fabrication! I will not be'
eve a word of it !" cried Rosa, as a torrent
f tears fell over her face.
" Donna Rosa," said Mguel, " in friend-
hip to your family, and in kindness to
ourself, I have endeavored to disclose the
ght and unworthy character of' one, whom
ou trust. In return, you style the things
rhich my investigations bring to light-fab-.
ications! I prevail upon a lady, to talk of
er own secrets in pity to you ? This is the
eward I receive."
" Forgive me, good cousin! forgive! but
hough angels should testify against him,
ow can I believe my Enrique false ?  .
" Your Enrique ?" cried Margarita, an
rily, "do you style my lover, he whom I
nursed during a three weeks' sickness with
iy owa hands, he who livid for months un'
der the same roof with me - your Enrique?"
"Lady! Know not what claims you may
have upon Enrique da Costa. But I cer'
ainly know that he loves me, and is true to
MC," said Rosa, with dignity.
"And are you so sure of that? Well,'
youshall certainly know too, that Enrique
da Costa will marry Mar-'-
Miguel no sooner heard the first syllable
of her name than he broke in with:
- " Now what would the gentlemen of the
court say, to see one of the reigning beau.

OR, PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS.

ties"-turning to Rosa-" and one of the   "Come child," she said, with the quiet-
noblest ladies "- turning to Margarita, who est voice in the world, "come into this
bowed low at the compliment-1"in fierce arbor."
combat with each other about the posses-  She led Rosa to a wooden seat, beneath
sion of a heretic escaped from the dungeons the old hoary trees.
of the holy Tribunal I"                  "Sit down, Rosa,"said the old lady, with.
Both the young and the aged maiden, out a particle of her stateliness, "and if
turned sharply upon Miguel, at this raillery.' anything oppresses you, fear not to confide
"In combat ?" cried Margarita. "He is in your mother."
mine without combat; you, lady, must be  Rosa could only reply by sobs.
wondrous conceited to imagine that Enrique  "Life is full of grief, my child.  You
da- Costa will give up one whom he loves have met nothing but joy yet. But all men,
like me, for you I"                    sooner or later, feel affliction and sorrow.-
What Rosa said was drowned amongst You must not expect to be exempt from it.
the higher tones of Margarita. What has disturbed you ?"
" Then Enrique da Costa is your lover?"  Rosa had recovered a little, from her first
inquired Rosa, suddenly, of Margarita.  passion of grief, and resolved to unbosom
" As sure as St. Margarita di Villa Franca herself to her mother.
is my patron saint !"                   "Oh mother my heart is broken," cried
"Enough; thank you for your kind ad- the trembling girl.
vice," and Rosa turning, entered another  "Hearts do not break," replied the moth--
apartment.                             er, in a sad tone. "Hearts are convulsed,
Miguel now took Margarita back to the and shocked, and tossed about upon the
inn. She entered the litter, and was again sea of passions, but they do not break"
set down at the summer pavilion, where   Rosa looked surprised at her mother, she,
Miguel presented her with five more gold so calm and quiet; could she ever have felt
pieces.                                the raptures, the sorrows of love, as her
" Never address me, or show that you sad voice seemed to indicate?
know me, if you behold me again I" was his  "MotherI have you ever felt the pains you
warning to the chambermaid, as he left her. speak of?"
Let us return to Donna Rosa.           "Have I ? Oh my daughter, let me throw
For some moments she paced the apart back the memories that rise up at your
ment in silence, and then descended to the question. I have been young, and I have
garden.                                loved, and have thought my heart would
" Is it possible ? No,. never ! Enrique is break; But-"
true to meI He must be !" and, proceeding  "Speak on dear mother!"
rapidly along the walks of the garden, "No, my child; let me first hear what are
Rosa heeded neither the waving branches thy sorrows; let me see the complaint, ere
that opposed her, nor the thorny boughs I essay to cure."
that hung'over the path. Suddenly emerg. "I love !"
ing from a shady arbor, the young lady met  "Miguel di Sousa?"
her mother.                              "No, my mother! Never !
"Rosa, my child, where have you been ?"  "You do not love your betrothed ?"
and, with astonishment, lady Bananda saw  "No mother; I will never marry himI!"
her daughter's face pale, with swollen eyes,  "Never; this is very strange, you have
and torn with bloody scratches.        been affectionate to him. There is nothing
" Oh ! mother, dear mother !" was all that to urge against his character, his fortune or
the young lady could say.              prospects.  Why   do you object to him
Donna Bananda, for sometime kept her then?"
pressed to her bosom. But her surprise was  "I do not love him I"
yet stronger than before.                "But, many matches are made without
13

97


}I
i
i'
i

,i
r,

i
I
'i
,
.
.+
k

98                        Tta    FATAL SiEca'E,
previous love, yet the parties were happy." royal court of Spain, I went with her, and
" But I love anotherI"              stayed awhile at Cordova. There first, my
"Who is that other, my child ?"       child, I met a gallant youth, who moved
"Enrique da Costa!"   'distinguished in the courtly train, of Spanish
"As I suspected !- But he is a fugitive, majesty.  His easy grace, his handsome
without fortune or station. If he re-appears aspect and his gentle pride did first attract
in Portugal, he dies certainly. See, how mine eye. The discourse flowing smoothly
hopeless your love is!I"               from his tongue, the fame which seemed to
" Oh mother! the obstacles are great, but flock around him, would rivet my attention.
not insurmountable. We are rich; we are His glance, which seemed t burn with love
Israelites. Let us both fly with our posses- whene'er it met my gaze, did bring my heart
sions from Portugal, where we are in con- to him. I loved, I need not say how much I
stant danger, and, joining Enrique, enjoy loved, how well he did return my earnest
happiness in some other, more liberal coun- passion, and what golden hopes I founded
try."                                   on that love. .
" The hopeksf youth are bright, and the  Da Costa wasthis gallant's name, the father
imagination of the loving, vivid. However, of Enrique and Hernando. Oh, how bright
daughter, this is all but an empty scheme. was then my heart, how glorious was the
Yet you may once wed Enrique da Costa, world around me. Never more will joy so
if circumstances allow it, for I will not force brilliant beam upon my fate! 'Tis past.
you to be the wife of Don Miguel, since a villain brought me news of Levi's treach-
your inclinations are against him."     ery. - 'T was said he boasted of my love to
" A thousand thanks, my dear mother.- other men, and spoke my name with ridicule.
But, although I do not wed Don Miguel, 1 did believe it, and my heart, his heart,
Enrique is also lost to me. He has been were disappointed in their dearest hopes.-
false to his vows! He has broken his word!" We parted never more to meet as friends.
" Oh my ch'ld, how know you this ?"   And now, my child, you know  the worm
Rosa related the events of the evening.  that ate into my girlhood's core; you knowr.-
"Be cautious, my daughter, to believe how great a pur.ishment for quick distrust,
such things. Have confidence in Enrique. was mine. You now will not believe what
Jealousy and distrust blight the heart.- others state against your lover; now learn
Learn from the history of your mother to to trust in him, to whom you once gave up
be slow  in believing any one, speaking your heart."
against your lover. I will tell you the his-  "Oh dearest mother," was the soft reply of
story of my life that you may learn to judge gentle Rosa, "you have made me glad and
in a case like this."                   happy, more than I can tell. For you have
Rosa laid her head upon her mother's rolled asway the heavy load of sorrow from
shoulder, and the old lady thus began the my soul, and now again, I breathe an atmos-
the history of her life:                phere of youth, of joy and gladness as
C H A PT E R X X V IIl.           before.  And when Enrique returns, oh
D O N N A B A N A N D A. mother, he weds thy Rosa. Say it, mother,
The matron's calm    and gentle features now! You loved the father, do not plunge
moving in agitation, hid upon the neck of the son, together with your child, ia
Rosa, and the beauteous maiden clasped misery; your heart has learned to love, oh,
her snowy arms around her mother's form. show it now I"
Then, in a voice, whose gentle tones subdued,  " But, Rosa, I'm a mother: now a mother's
yet thrilled the heart, she spoke:      duty holds the sanguine mind with iron
"When, ere the second Juan died, Bianca anchors to the real earth. A mother's duty
wore the crown, I was attached to her, and teaches me to give my child where satisfa-
while she lived, Bananda was her friend. tion, happiness will meet her, on the path
When Juan died and she returned to the of life."

OR, PLOTS AND
"Alone with him whom the heart has cho-
sen, can I find these treasures."
" No, my child, not in a life, which is a
flight from every land,where civilized society
abounds. No Christian king will let the
Hebrew live within his land unless despised,
disgraced he cast away, each vestige of hu.
vanity. And would my gentle daughter
share a fate like this ?"
" I would, to be his wife; would sooner
fly to distant deserts, than become the
wife of Miguel di Sousa."
"1I force ye not, to be his wife, but neither
shall ye wed Enrique, until no longer for-
tune frowns upon his fate."
"It is enough, my mother, thanks for this."
The ladies rose and walked along the
sombre, darkened paths, all over arched by
trembling foliage. Now, they reached the
house, and turning, looked upon the glowing
stars.  The whispering wind  did creep
around the trunks of aged trees, and whistle
through the knots. They went into the silent
house. Then from beneath the brownish
trunks that rose in bosquets, and in silent
clumps aloft around the arbor, where the
ladies sat, a figure stole. It was a man whose
face, all bitter with the wicked though ts
within, was lifted to the pure and starlit
sky. The moon, with trembling beams, did
gleam upon the figure and the face. But
burning bright with selfevolved rays the
eyes did shine, and shed a beam of hell upon
the face. 'T was Miguel di Sousa; he had
heard the trustful conversation of the child
and mother. He then knew well that ne'er,
with Donna -Bananda's word, he could ac-
complish his purpose. His heart was
pressed with grief, and from its secret
chamber flew the dormant poison. What
schemes and plans then sprang to life, the rea-
der will only see as executed by that revenge-
ful man, whose soul was bent on wedding
Rosa.
The morning after Rosa's confession to
her mother, Don Miguel di Sousa reclined
on the cushions of a two oared barge, which
was being rowed toward a large three mashed
vessel.  In letters of gold was painted
around the figurehead, the vessel's name,
"St. Pedro di Alvendi."

COUN T E R P L 0TS.               99
Don Miguel was put on board, and there
received by a thin weasel-faced man, who
was the captain.
" How are you, old friend.!" cried Don
Miguel, with a heartiness, which was re-
turned in part, by the weasel-faced one.
"Well, well! I am quite well, but wish
to be at sea again."
"Oh, Misardo, always wishing to lie
on the broad ocean."
" Yes; 't is too expensive to live on land.
My heart always burns, when they roar
land from the masthead. I do n't like it."
"My old water dog, I should think you
would like, once in a while, to see your.
relatives again."
"No, no, I have none! so help me St.
Pedro; none, but a few rascally starvelings,
who want to rob me of my well-earned
savings; not that I have much !"
Miguel replied by what is termed, at
the present time, "a wink," which said
plainer than words could express it:
"I know you, old miser."
"Nay, nay," again said Captain Misardo,
uneasily, " I possess nothing. But when
land is in sight, I know the next thing want-
ed will be pay for the sailors - the scamps."
"Well, they earn it, pretty hard."
"And spend it easy; a sailor throws
away more in day on shore, than their cap-
tain expends in a week."
" I dare say. Bet let us go into the cabin
where I will thank you for a draught from
your best. I have business with you," con
tinued the noble as they entered the cabin.
" Business," said old Misardo, stopping,
"I have no money, and can't lend any.-
People fancy me rich, but St. Pedro knows
that I am a beggar; a ruined beggar."
"Be not afraid. I do not want money."
Misardo drew a sigh of relief.
" What else then," said he, placing a
cup for his guest.
" Are you sure there is no listener near,"
said Miguel, looking around anxiously.
"No. Why you surprise me. What is
is you want with me ?
Miguel was silent for a few moments.
" What is it that you want?" inquired
Captain Misardo, growing pale.

0


100                      TH E FATAL
"Do not be afraid. It is something con-
cerning myself, entirely."
"1OhI" sighed, the weasel faced one.-
"You know, Misardo, that it is I, who has
procured you the command of this vessel."
"Certainly, certainly. Much obliged to
you, always."
s1And that I haye required nothing, in
return for this service.",
"No; you have behaved handsomely.-
It would have been vain to ask me for a
present, since I am poor as a rat. Every
one knows how poor I am1"
"Do not repeat your assurances to me.-
I have already said I come not to borrow
money.".
"True, I could lend you none. My purse
contains not enough to serve you for one
day."
" PshawI Remain quite for a moment
about your money --
"1I have none!"
"A thousand curses on your headI re-
main quiet, I say, about your money or
your poverty, and listen to my business,-
You know that I'm afflaiced to Donna Rosa
Bananda."
The attentive Misarado nodded, and said,
sotto voce:" Immensely rich!"
"It is arranged that I wed her in a month
from this time."
"If you need any money for the wedding,
I may be able to accommodate you," broke
in Misardo, "for I hold a certain sum in
trust for another. Always on condition of
good interest and secured on the lands of
Bananda."
"Will your rattling tongue never stop
clicking about money and money ? Quiet,
I say!"
The captain was silent.
"Well," continued Miguel, "as I said, all
is arranged. Now, at once, the girl refuses
to marry me."
"I don't think I can let you have any
money, for I hold it but in trust, and 't
would be unlawful to do business with it."
Miguel lifted up the glassen pitcher, that
stood upon the table of the cabin, and threw
it at Misardo's head. The weasel-faced one
dodged, and thus eluded the blow. The

Ir SECRET,
vessel was shivered to fragments, on the
wall.
" It cost a quarter of a dobla, and was
worth two! Do you think I am a spend-
thrift, who throws his money out of the win.
dow ?" inquired Misardo, angrily.
" Calm down, my magnificent captain,
and let us continue. Let me see, where did
I stop ?",
"That I could not lend you any money."
Miguel looked about and would  rtainly
have thrown something else at Misardo,
had there been any convenient missile
within reach; as it was, he contented himself
with a furious glance, and then continued:'
" The girl does. not love me, she says;
now, you know well enough that love always
follows marriage. Therefore, it is evident I
must marry her first.- But, all of late, thre
mother hag taken side with the girl, so that
I am fairly cast off, and am politely told
that the intentions of the bride will prevent
the consummation of the nuptials. All
previous arrangements are broken ol."-
Miguel's features worked and writhed, while
thus relating his hopeless prospects.
"A great loss, a great loss!" murmured
Misardo. " She is immensely rich."
" And I am ruined, if I can nt get hold
of her fortune. My slight savings melted
away in England."
" Dreadful," said Misado, growing pale;
"I am not able to aid you, for I am poor.
Apply to the king for help."
Another furious glance at Misardo.
"No, no; I must marry her, and you
must aid me to do it."
"1I? how?"   inquired the  astonished
Misardo.
" You see, my friel," began Miguel,
"when once married, the fortune of Donna
Bananda is in my grasp."
"True; you will be immensely rich."
"Now, the difficulty is to get married.-
To get over that difficulty I must have a
willing bride, and a priest. The bride [
have, but an unwilling one. Therefore, the
first thing is to make her willing.''
"How can I help you, in this ? I am
not suited to coax theinind of ladies."
"I should think not. But to get her con.-

OR, 'LoTS AND
sent, I must have her entirely under my
influence. I can not exert any influence
on her at home."
"Therefore, you must get her away."
"Splendidly reasoned, capitano mio. I
mustget her away. And, here comes the point
concerning you. There is no place in the
world, where I can exercise such control
upon her, as in your ship, on a voyage
to Sicily."

" In my ship? It will be too expensive
to keep a lady. No, no, that would not do."
"I will bear every expense, and besides,
if all goes, as I .wish it, if my plans succeed,
five hundred -- five hundred gold pieces are
yours."
"Five hundred ?"
" I have said it. Well, are you dumb ?"
" Five hundred gold pieces! and the
expenses! I will do it, my noble friend,
my rich patron."
"Very well. Now, when do you sail for
Sicily? Start as soon as possible."
"Day after to-morrow, I can be ready."
"But, could I have some of your sailors
if necessary, to carry her off?"
"Yes.   So there is no danger.  But,
where will you get a priest ?"
" That, indeed ? I must see to."
"My brother is a priest," said Misardo,
"if youpay him well, he will go along."
" Will you manage it? Explain every-
thing, and have him on board. Can you
do it?
" How much do you authorize me to offer
him?"
" Fifty pieces."
"'That willinot be enough. Say a hun-
dred pieces, at least."
" A hundred, then. Now, all is arranged.
The priest will be here, and, go along with
us b Sicily.  To-morrow  afternoon, have
some of your sailors ready to accompany
me. At night, I think we can bring the
golden bird a captive on board, and in the
morning the ship weighs anchor. Oh !
Rosa, you shall see that Miguel di Sousa is
a man, that can not be thwarted in his pur-
poses. You will think different about re-
jecting me, when once on board of this ship !
We shall have you, my fine lady !"

OoUNTURPLoTS.                    101
" I really admire you," said the little cap.
e tain.
After some furtl-er arrangements, con.
cerning the carrying out of Miguel's plan,
the nobleman departed from worthy Misardo,
and was rowed back.
"Ah," he thought, "if our king had
not, all at once, God knows for what reason,
suspended the action of the Inquisition, and
for an indefinite time too,'things would look
different.  Then, Donna Bananda would
tremble and entreat, when.now, she disdain-
fully turns her head. Ah, that measure
was a great blow, for me. If the Inquisition
were only in action."
The sun shone gaily as Miguel, throwing
a few coins to the rowers, jumped on shore,
and ascended the steps leading to the ter-
race, in front of the royal palace.
0......-....
CHAPTER XXIX.
 THE INSURGENTS IN TH E NORTH.
IN a former chapter, the reader has seen
that, at the request of Dun Lionel, Queen
Eleonora resolved to intercede with Juan,
in behalf of the Israelites concerning the
suspension of the Inquisition. The entreaty
of the Queen furnished the King with a
most reasonable excuse to fulfil the promise
Massor had extorted from him.
After the Gipsy's visit, Juan had em-
ployed the most expert spies to dog the
steps of him who had in his possession the
FATAL SEenET, that could eventually ieer the
crownfrom his brow, and wrench the sceptre
from his grasp. But in vain. None of all
those employed were able to trace him
further than some by-street in the neighbor-
hood of the palace. It is true that, for once,
Don Antonio, the prime minister,,with his
suite. passing by the Episcopal palace,
where the Cardinal Savelli dwelt, thought
that he had seen Massor standing in the
entrance, but quieted his mind , the re-
flection how impossible it was for t Gipsy
to be so near the'head-quarters of the In-
quisition, without detection, and, therefore,
took no further note of the fact,
Great, indeed, was the joy of the Israel-
ites, when the suspension of the Inquisition
was proclaimed, and proportionately great


102                       TnasiFATAL SicanT,
was the wrath of his Eminence Savelli. He  Through one of the broad streets, formed
protested in vain. Nothing could change by the division of the camp, was riding a
the resolution of the King, founded on his Dominican monk, in the robes of his order.
dread of Massor's documents. The Cardinal Before him walked a young and jauntily
could effect nothing. The combination of dressed fellow, who was apparently guiding
his wrath and a dish of olives threw him the priest. Behind the Friar's mule marched
on the sick bed with a bilious attack. There, a guard of about twenty soldiers. '
gnashing his teeth, he awaited the arrival  They were proceeding to the high
of the emissaries of Charles V, who, he the flag of which, bearing the royal arms
hoped, would support him in his measures indicated'it as the habitation of the Prior.
of upholding the Inquisition, notwithstand- Sentinels guarded it, on all sides, and a
ing the opposition of King Juan. cordon of men being drawn around, pre.
But these emissaries had not yet arrived, vented even the nearer approach of any one.
Let us now turn to the North, and, fol-  The priest dismnunted, and followed the
lowing Pater Domingo, the King's mes- young fellow through the line of sentinels,
senger to his rebellious brother, entering until they had arrived at the curtain, repre..
the insurgent camp.                     senting the door.
It is late in the afternoon. The insurgents  "Wait here for a moment," said he. to the
had pitched their camp around the strong priest, who, as the reader will already have
and high castle di Monfre, which wascF
owned by the Prior di Castro. The royal  The young man entered, and a moment
flag of Portugal waved above the weather after the ilk was thrown aside, and Do-
beaten battlementa. The camp was in seven mingo stid in the tent. a
or eight divisions; and in the midst of each  ie Prior sat upon a rude camp chair,
division the silken tent of the leader was over which a piece of purple diamask had
placed. The Prior resided in the castle been hastily thrown. Around him stood the
But to please his adherents, by an ap. few nobles and men of mark, his party could
parent condescension, be had a tent pitched furnish, all brave in fine clothes.  The
outside of the walls, which he occasionally priest looked around silently waiting to be
occupied.ddressed.
The army might number aboat three a "You come from our usurping brother ?"
thousand men. The reader will perceive inquired the Prior at last,'
that, although the Prior was strong enough  i   the    is last
to keep his hold in the mountains, yet he King of Portugal," replied Domingo, now
had not a sufficient number of adherents to gravely and proudly.
descend to the South, and encounter Juan's  "You address the true King of Portugal
well organised soldiers. The unexpected   ou a        t
desertion of the Duke di Azamnhuja, who was  " I came not from Lisbon to join in this
followed by two or three others of the prin- farce, and play king minus land, withithe
cipal nobles, had weakened the Prior's cause fools that have gathered around you, but to
very much. Ani he had begun to negotiate hear proposals from a merciful monarch at
with the court of France for aid. Those thea profo s fan a  armyutoarch
nobles thatetill adhered to him, were adven- the head of his land and army to a rebellious
turous men, who hoped to achieve theirown subject."
fortune by placing di Castro on the throne. A d    ilnce reined
The setting sun was pouring its golden  " Tus Doposes continued
beams upon the mountains in deep green "Thus proposes His Majesty, Don Juan,
King of Portugal: That all adherents of
verdure dressed, upon the old and brownish A         0
looking castle with its skirt or white tents, Antonio, Priurdi Castro, lay down their
and upon the straiglt'reen squares; where arms, unconditionally.  They may- then
warriors, amidst jokes and loud laughter, hope for royal pardon. That all nobles who
were practising warlike games.         have joined  in this rebellions outbreak,

r
I
i
.,
f
.
i'
N
i        1
,y1
4
}'

OR,    'LoTs AND      COUN TUnPLoTS.
place themselves forthwith at the disposal of  The Pater turned qui
hia Majesty: They may then claim royal "What is it ?"
clemency. That the Prior di Castro proceed  "Resistance to the U
to Lisbon, and renew his oath of fealty to soldier.
the offended Majesty, and resign all claims  The Pater bit his lips
he may have upon the crown of Portugal,  He took a soft path,I
by oath. Then the King will assign to him The broad road, the King
a convent where he shall reside until ec- dusty, it seems, and he A
clesiastical judges lhwke decided upon the that led under trees ani
punishnent-due. Thus far goes my mission, mountains of Moncorvo.
and now nobles, and you misguided men, urged his animal to a qu
hear I"                                had quitted the camp, an
"We wish none of your advice, priest," before he passed a high
said the Prior di Castro, quickly "Retire arrived at a dark creek, a
for a few moments, and, then, you shall lows. There the fabherf
receive our answer I"                  ing a boat fastened it to a
Domingo was led from    the teit, and up stream to a rocky Ian
awaited the Prior's answer, a few  steps steps led into a dark cav
from the entrance, ander the charge of a recognise the scene and c
guard.                                  Enrique and Hernando
Loud were the words that resounded, and were imprisoned bj
from the tent, and long was the consultation. Domingo enterAd the ci
At last the curtain was thrown aside, and who were present in grep
the Prior di Castro appeared. He seemed up, but were quieted in a
much excited, for an angry flush was seen from the holy Pater. H
on his cheek, and a quick light in his eye. small captain, with the f
Followed by the others he approached conducted by him into al
Domingo, and said:                     where they had a long
" Priest, return to thy master, and say: will leave them to their
Antonio di Castro is the rightful heir of the It was in the first hot
crown, the rightful King of Portugal, and twelve men silently des
that he will yield his claims only with his that led from  the robb
life. If 'twere for no other purpose, I water, and entered thr
would not succumb, for the sake of my At the word of one, wh
mother's pure honor, who was the wedded herculean proportions,
wife of Emmanuel, my sainted father."  shoved off, and rowed t
The priest bowed and said: "I shall bear amongst the willows. TI
your answer to the King of Portugal, and and the moon bright WI
may God have mercy on you!"  The Prior ed from the shadow ofI
gave a sign, and Domingo was conducted to clearly be seen that they
his mule, which he mounted.            Their leader was Massc
" Think once more," he said, "ere I go. His attendant, Fidaro, thi
The King will never pardon th is."      pair at Donna Gloria's de
The Prior made but a sign, that the priest to the band of gipsies. T
be led away. The attendants urged his robbers.
mule, and Father Domingo rode from  the  All, led by Massor, wal
e~amp.                                 the road, which FatherI
As he -rode away, one of the men asked lowed  on  the day bef
the Pater: -                           middle night was passe
" Do you know the parole, you priestly the camp of the Prior di (
messenger of Don Juan?"                   Massor now turned to

103
ekly, and inquired :
surper l" cried the
in rage.
this good priest did.
's highway, was too
choose a green path,
d wound around the-
. Father Domingo
icker pace, when he
d it was not long,
slanting rock, and
ll overhung by wil-
alighted, and, enter-
willow, then rowed
ding, from whence
e. The reader will
ave as those where
were made captives
y robbers. Father
ave. The robbers,
at numbers, started
moment by a word
e whispered to the
ine -attfre, and was
n inner apartment,
conversation. We
own counsels.
urs of night when
ended the steps,
ber's cave to the
ee separate boats.
ose- figure was of
the boats   were
o the landing place
he night was clear
hen the men emerg-
the trees, it could
were well armed.
or, the gipsy chief.
e page, who, in des-
ath, had returned
fhe other ten were
lked quickly along
Domingo had fol-
ore, and ere  the
d had arrived near
Castro.
his companions


104

TnE FATAL SECRET,

4
k
t
1
I
f
I
I

and said: "Wait quietly here until the
morning shines. If I need you, Fidaro or
myself shall call. If not, you may return to
the cave, when the sun rises."
"But, where shall we conceal ourselves?"
inquired one of the men.
"In yon clumps of trees behind the
castle," replied Massor, and the men
obeyed him.
Then the gipsy chief and Fidaro crept
under cover of the trees, that lined  the
high road close to the tents of the Prior's
camp. Sentinels were posted, within call of
each other, all around.
They approached one of them who guard-
ed a pobtern gate. The sentinel went up and
down before the narrow gate that led through
the wall of palisades, defending that part
of the camp singing:
"The lady gazed from the castle high,
Upon the soldier boy below;
Her face was pale, but in her eye
The fires of love did glow.'*
lassor approached in the shade of the
palisades, untilohe almost stood in the corner
formed by the jutting out of the postern at
the side of the gate. It was impossible for
any eye dazzled by the radiant moonshine
to detect him in ,e black shadow. Fidaro
stood behind hi -i
"How, in S   uan's name, do you expect
to enter the camp without detection ?" ques-
tioned Fidar
"Nothi g is impossible to one of my
race," replied Massor, in a whisper. When
the sentinel turned, both stood before him.
He blow the match of his arquebuse, and
raising 't towards the two, inquired:
"Who is there ?"
"Friends !" was the reply.
" The password ?"
esistance to the Usurper."
The soldier put down his weapon, and
said: Pass     .   .     .
In a moment the two stood in the camp.
They walked silently like ghosts through
the camp, not in the broad regular streets
but between the tents, and in a concealed
manner unt'l they approached the clear
space around the Prior di Castro's tent.
Translated from the Portugnese.

The tent leaned with the rear upon some
trees that garnished the outer edge of the
castle moat. Some of the branches over-
hung the roof, and from amidst the green
verdure waved the royal flag.   Soldiers
formed a guard around. They-lay in listless
attitudes, but very quietly, except ,a few
that stood 'with weapons ready before the
door of the tent. The moonshine slept upon.
the tent, the resting soldiers, the sentinels
and the camp.
Massor and his companion by a round
about way arrived at the rear of the tent.
They had turned to the left and skirted the
free space until they came to the moat.
Massor halted for a moment and listened.
Allwas quiet. Then, proceeding along the
side of the moat, he reached a point directly
in the rear of the Prior's tent. He now
endeavored to pierce the darkness of shadow
with his sharp eyes.
"There is an uninterrupted line of trees
from here to the tent," he said. "Will you
not see, Fidaro, whether it is soV
Fidaro without a word plunged into the
shade.
"Shall I do it," now soliloquised Massor,
" shall I play false to the King ? He does
not mean to be true or faithful to me; he
does not intend to keep to his promises.
But I have put confidence in his words;
can I now withdraw it? Oh ! yes, my duty,
my principles require it, I must make the
best of the means which God placed at my
disposal. After all, I only work for justice
and right. I do not trust a King like Juan.
He will break promises. But when de Castro
has once promised, he never deserts his
word. - Ah, but will he promise? - No, I
am too well convinced that it is in vain. He
will not promise this. Yet the inducements
are immense. I can make or unmake him.
Well, we will see; try, I must."
" There is a straightline of trees, sir," re-
ported Fidaro.
" Then wait here until I call you," re-
plied Massor, and began to climb the next
tree with the agility of a cat.
When he had arrived at that part, where
the branches began to spread, he seized the
largest that stretched out in the direction of

OR, PLOT AND COUNTERPLOTS.
the Prior's tent. Moving cautiously along  The Prior's countenan
the knotty stem, he arrived within reach of a  "I thought you would
second branch, from another tree, and leav- of the contract," he said.
ing the first, sprang lightly upon the second. liberty, I could not gra
Thence he reached the next trunk. This nobles, and the leaders
manmuvre was repeated until he had reached opposed to the measure."
those trees that stood in the immediate rear  "And where are the lei
of the tent.                          that opposed this measure
The extremest caution was now necessary, sorted and betrayed you
since soldiers watched beneath those trees, men, and the aid they pr
and their attention would have been aroused you found them as true
by the slightest rustle.               have been ?"
With the silent yet sure pace of the wild  "The base dogsI they
cat, Massor leaned upon the branches that 'itI And you ! do you co
overhung the roof of the tent. It was of taunt me ? How gained y
crimson cloth. Putting one hand in his   "I gained entrance thr
bosom, the gipsy drew out a knife which he replied Massor, raising his
unclosed with his teeth. Then he cut slowly to the slashed roof of th
through the cloth, in one direction, and then here to taunt you, for ti
crossed it with a slash in an opposite course. knghtly-
The cut corners of the cloth fell dcwn, and "Unkmghtly ? Gipsy, d
Massor looked upon the Prior di Castro spurs ? I have heard of si
sleeping upon his couch. In another mo- "I wear no spurs b
ment the gipsy had taken secure hold of hand; let that pass. I can
the branch with his muscular hands, and to put the crown into you
allowed his body to drop slowly through the  "How so?"
slashed  cloth of the tent. He alighted  "The proofs of your le
li rhtly upon the couch at the side of'the  "Know you ought of th
Prior. Now, disengaging the heavy silken  "I have them in my pos
rope that held a side of the wall to one of  "Then you have stolen
the tent poles, he threw it on 'the branh tor that you are! Abomin
above, and tied it securely. Then, he tried  The Gipsy's face flushe
its strength, and satisfied that it would help dagger. he sprang at the
him to regain the branch, he took the loose to histhroat.
end in his hand, ana sprang upon the floor. thiserable hound !
The Prior was still sleeping, for all this hadt  d
been accomplished without the slightest y recovering himself, he
noise. But now Massor laid his hand upon aBd said to the trembling
his arm, and said loudly, calmly, earnestly, how you arouse meI I h
-"A wake I"hoyoarue                                     e Ih
--_IImy possession, and you sh
CHAPTER          XXX.           fivehundred meninthe b
A SLIPPERY CAPTIVE.          promise religious liberty.
"Awake!"                            but to do this thing, andm
The Prior stirred, turned, and sat up in shall be heated on the thrc
bed, with eyes wide'open, staring at Massor.  The Prior, pale as dea
"Do you know me?" inquired the Gipsy. the floor, w;.ere Massor hf
"Massor !" exclaimed the Prior, "Have tened to the Gipsy's word
you brought your five hundred men?"      With an effort he compr
" Have you promised religious liberty?  "N -ver," he said. "I
That was my condition," replied Masior with King, than prove as such
a scowl.                               of Mother Church!"
14

I

105
ce fell.
adhere to your part
"As for religious
nt it., since all my
of my party were
aders of your party
e ? They have de.
Where are their
omised you? Have
as the Gipsy would
shall yet suffer for
me here merely to
ou entrance?"
tough this opening,"
s arm, and pointing
e tent. I came not
hat would be un-
o you wear golden
uch cases."
stowed by royal
me here,once more,
r hand."
gitimacy-"
em?"
session."
them! False trai-
able thief! "
d, and drawing his
Prior, and held it
darest thou speak
-," but sudden.
released the Prior,
and pale man :
ord, but take care
ave the proofs in
all have them, and
argain, if you will
Nay more, swear
my head for it, you
one of Portugal!"
ith, still sitting on
ad thrown him lis-
s.
rehended him.
will rather not be
a thorn in the side


11

I

106                       Tuu   FATAL SEC RET,
" Are the interests of Mother Church dear whether you will rescue your life, by de.
er to you, than the establishment of the hon- livery of the documents.'
or of your own mother? "                 "And I," replied the gipsy, '"will also
"Ha! you say rightly! our noble mother's give you two hours time, and no more, to
name must regain its piure fame. Yet the consider my proposal. If then, you accept
Church - no the Church must not sufferI not my conditions, if then you swear not
Gipsy, those documents are mine. I must to establish religious liberty, give up all
have them  I shall have you arrested, and hopes for the crown, for then you will
then - the documents or your life !"   never mount a throne."
"Sir, you have refused the crown. You "He has turned moonstruck," said the
will never be king !" said the gipsy, and Prior. "Carry him to the next tent, and
with a bound, had mounted the bed, from guard him well."
whence, aided by the silken rope fastened  Massor'was removed to the next tent, and,
above, he had nearly reached the branch, bound as he was, laid upon a heap of straw.
when the Prior threw himself upon him, and  A sentinel stood on guard,: before the
cried loudly.                          open door of the tent.
"Guards. Guards !"                      Massor lay bound, with his thoughtful
In a moment the tent was filled with sur., eyes prying about his tent prison. After
prised soldiers.                       the momentary commotion, occasioned by
The Prior still clung to the gipsy's legs, his capture, had subsided, nothing could be
with all the strength of wrath.         heard but the lazy droning voice of the
When Massor found himself incapable to night. That quiet and sleepy murmur, so
escape, he bent down, and lifting the Prior subdued and subduing, which creeps along
fairly off'his feet, cried to the soldiers, who the atmosphere of nights, floated now over
blew theii matches:                    the can p.        0
"Do not shoot! Your commander's life   There is a peculiar charm in the voice of
is in my hand                          night. It is so noisily quiet, so quietly
But the Prior vociferated frantically:  noisy, so deep and mysterious, that it has
"Shoot the vile traitor             often seemed to me the poppy flowers of
"  soor then  i th tra n  exhi i  of  h sound  stream  their narcotic  qdors upon  the
Massor then with an exhibition of his air, in the late starshiay hours.
great strength threw the Prior forward, in  Massor pierced the semi-darkness of the
the midet of the men. But at the same tent in which he lay confined, with those.
moment, the bed on which hestood breaking sharp glances of his black eyes, and ascer-
down, threw him also to the ground, en- tained that it contained a couch, and, in fact,
tangled in the Rheets and pillows.     all the furniture of an officer's habitation.
The soldiers rushed upon him, and, in  It seemed that the real occupant had but
spite of Herculean struggles, secured the just left it. Massor cried out to the soldier:
prostrate ma*.                           "What tent is this ?"
"Search him for papers," cried the Prior.  "I have orders to gag you, if you address
None were found upon him, however.     me," replied the man.
"Your life is at my disposal to answer  The gipsy was quiet.
for the delivery of the documents !" hissed Not ten minutes had passed, however, ere
the Prior, who had risen from the ground steps could be heard approaching. It was
with a bruised shoulder. . a man whose dull tread upon the sod neared
"Kill me now," replied Massor, calmly, the tent. He stopped before it, and con-
"and ere to-morrow's sun sets, your camp versed for a moment, with the soldier station'
will be taken, and your army defeated by ed there. The soldier replied with long
gipsies."                              explanations, to the officer's short queries,
"We esteem not much the valor of thy and, after a little time, had informed his
race," replied the Prior, scornfully, "I will superior of all that had passed. The officer
give you time, till tu-morrow, to consider entered the tent, and 4ruck a light.

OR, PLOTS      A N 'DO  U N T ERPLoTS.              107
He was a young man, a Spaniard by birth,     C H A P TE R 'X XX I.
whom Massor had seen in Lisbon. He had             THE BITER BIT.
been in favor with the late King but neglected  T   H E BI TraBmT.
by~~~~                    ~~ th  rsn  oach  eetn  u n's assor was completely transformed, as it
by the present Monarch. Resenting Juan's seemed, by his new attire, for this wonderful
indifference, hejoined the Prior's party man had the power of assuming almost
where his military knowledge was much every figure by aid of cunning bends and
The young officer had returned f om mak- motions of his form, and appropriate clothes.
T he youns                            Ilie went from the tent, passed the sentinel
i  thenhehd.e                         unchallenged, and walked slowly through
When he had lighted a lantern, lie held it th0apt  h  upss     si   b~tt
clset te rso's  ae                the camp to the outposts, as if about to
close to the Prisoner's fce.           make his rounds. Nodding to the salute of
"Whoare you ?" he inquired,          the sentinels he went from the camp.
"Have you orders to examine me, Don     Massor, however, but left the camp to
Seguol?" retorted Massor, looking up boldly collecr he e,  but  he   camp to
"Yo ae bod oc  I ee"  pledDo   collect the men, whom he had ordered to,,
"You are a bold cock, I see," replied Don wait, in time copse behind the castle.
Segol. "B yor     insolence wont answer   He presently returned, and, while he ap-
" The token on my right hand will inform proached by the path, his men crept along
,.  .-.            the palisades.  Giving the parole to the
you, replied Massor slowly, and in dignified
accents.sentinel, lie entered. His men immediately
Don Seguol's face expressed surprise first Iressed after him, and threw  themselves
ne                                  upon the surprised sentinel.
at this reply. Bet lie presently with a good  The soldier was about to cry out when the
nature smile moved hislantern, so that its strong hand of one robber clutched.his
light fell upon the prisoner's hand. A gem  throat, and checked the rising sound, while
gleamed there, on which a cross and image the other tore away the firehock, which e
with some other signs were engraved.    still endeavored to discharge.
In a moment, the young officer's face   "5T -             d        - "
d                      1 ear his scarf, and bind him," com--
was serious and a picture of pious venera- handed Massor
tion. le dropped on one knee, and kissing  It was done
the confined hand, inquired:               Now, lay him down here and you, Ja.
"lWhat do you command, mny lord?"      -A     ,lahmdonerndyuJ-
" Rased   me,"urepmied, myssord ?"    into, can assume his cloak and musket, to
"Release me," replied Masson  "  But stand sentry, until we return. If the man
first close the entrance of the tent!",  endeavors to betray  us, stab him," said
In a moment the curtain was dropt over Massor; "u -t harm him not uselessly."
the entrance, and Don Seguol, with his    aNo sir; you may confide in my disere-
dagger, out the cords that bound tleoipsy- tion. Father Cyprian says the virgin will
Massor arose slowly,                  aid me where my wisdom falls short."
" Have you any other commands ?" in-a
quired the officer.  es                   Keep a good look omt, and should you
quredethme officer. y  arsee any signs of suspicion- the cry of the
"Let me assume your cloak, and depart- -wild cat will inform us; remember."
from hence," said Massor. "I have great  "No suspicion will arise. rather.Cyprian
business to transact yet to night. As for Nhrived mc last night; and where a sinless
you, leave the camp before day, and throw man, like myself, accompanies you, no fail-
yourself at the feet of the king"          an hiken, replies ounoa-
Th mnnr  f  asorwa   s  dcie ure can happen," replied the robber.
The manner of Massor was so decided Matssor pursued the same rou ndabomit way,
and dignified, that the officer, without a in the same stealthy manner, by which h,
moment's hesitation, gave him  his cloak, had, with Fidaro, reached the Prior's tent,
hat and sword, and. with all the deference in the early part of the night.
of an inferior, helped him to array himself A cloud concealing the noon, aided him
in his costume.                         mucd.
As he turned towards the trees, in the

If
6.,

it
t"
C
J
1

,


108                       Timz   FATAL SEcRET,
rear of the chieftain's tent, a voice hailed  Don Seguol obeyed Massor's order, and,
him:                                   with his scarf bound the Prior's hands to
"Who goes there ?"                   his body.
" Captain Seguol," replied Massor, as-  "Tie also the feet," continued the gipsy.
suming the Spanish accent of the officer,  The Captain did so, and then Massor
whose hat and cloak he wore.           asked for a gag.
"Have you made the rounds, sir ?" in-  "I have none in the tent," replied the
quired a haughty short voice, which Massor Captain.
immediately recognised as that of the Prior  "Make one, quickly," rejoined the gipsy;
di Castro.                             and Seguol, breaking the wooden hilt of a
" I have, my lord I" was the subdued knife from  its blade, wrapped it round
reply.                                 with his gloves and a piece of linen,,and
" Dismiss your men," said the Prior.- then handed the gag to Massor.
"We are about to visit a prisoner whom we  Applying his free hand to the Prior's
have placed into your tent. Accompany us throat, Massor removed the other from his
captain I"                             mouth. The clutch on the throat prevented
Massor bowed, and spoke a few whispered any audible sound being enunciated, and,
.words to his men. They seemed to disperse at the same time, caused the Prior to open
in various directions, but really hovered hio mouth, so that the gag could be con.
closely around the party. Massor now fell veniently applied. All this passed without
back, and walking behind the Prior, ascer- the Prior's being able to resist in any
tained that only two attendants accom- way, except by a few dumb and unsuccess-
panied him.                            ful struggles. Massor paused a moment.
The tent of Captain Seguol was reached. There he was in a dark tent, in the midas
"Await me here," said the Prior to his of a hostile camp with the commander
attendants, and entered the tent, while the bound at his feet. However, Massor was
sentinel saluted,                      not a man to deliberate in the time of
Captain Seguol lay on his bed, asleep.-  action. His plans were formed previous to
Scarcely had the Prior held the lantern to action. Circumstances could aid him, and
his face, mistaking him for Massor, when alter the plan, change  the means, by
the gipsy's hand was laid so firufly upon which a certain result was to be attained,
his mouth, that it seemed glued to the flesh. b-t they could not affect the final result to
The other arm was clasped around the be obtained or purpose to be executed.
Prior's chest, confining his arms to his He now said, briefly, to Seguol:
body. It took but a moment to do this. "By the power vested in me, I command
At the same time, the Prior was pressed so you to stay in this tent, for one hour,
stoutly to Massor, that he was incapable of after which you are free to leave the camp."
making the slightest motion.            "But, whom have you bound here ?"
The lantern fell upon the ground. Captain  "1I may not tell yon, Senor "
Seguol, slightly disturbed, awoke, and sat  With this the gipsy drew his dagger, and
up in bed. The light of the lantern having ripping the cloth which formed the rear
been extinguished by the fall, all was dark wall of the tent completely open, took the
Massor said in Spanish to Seguol: "He, Prior by the girdle, and carried him out.
whose ring you have recognised, and whose  He had proceeded hut a few steps from
word you have obeyed to night, bids you now the tent, when the nine others, one py one,
to bind securely the man I hold in my arms." joined him, and, walking on each side, e.
"But, how can 1, is the dark?   How corted the gipsy and his captive. ~ As they
came you here again? Who is the man ?" walked past ghie tent of one of the leaders, a
inquired the astonished Seguol.        voice bid them halt. It was the Captain of
" Inquire not, but do as I bid you. Tear that division of the camp himself, and he
your searf and bind this man."         asked:

Oa, PLOTS AND CoUNTERPLOTS.

"What do you carry there ?"          -bring you to the feet of the king-- a repen-
"A man who has died of the pestilence," tant brother, or a captive rebel. I leave you
was Massor's ready reply.              liberty to choose in what part."
"Gracious Virgin I does the leech think  ",Sir, whoever you are, your insolence to
it contagious ?"                       the descendant of Kings, is unbearable.  I
"Very much so?" The Captain of that will brave you, Convey me to the King. I
division quickly retired, and bid them walk will at least have my own blood, my own
on, and not poison the air.             race, the arbiter of my fate, noL a treacher-
The gipsy and his companions left the ous gipsy. Carry me to Lisbon. I have
camp, by the postern gate that had seen nothing with you. I will also close my lips,-
them enter. Massor still carried the pri- and not reply to you agairt. It is beneath
soner.  Let us leave the   uninteresting my dignity thus to hold converse with you."
ride to the cave, undescribed, and trn to " Consider what you say, senor  I will
Massor when a few minutes after Fidaro, either convey you to Lisbon a captive or a
who had rejoined them at the cave, had repentant brother. Promise me t: keep
arrived, he entered  the room  where the silence regarding every previous transaction
Prior had been placed.                 that has passed between us, and the King
The Prior, who had been released of his shall not know, but that you come of your
bonds and gag, upon the arrival at the cave, own free will."
turned his back upon  Massor, when he     The Prior turned his back upon Massor,
heard him enter.                        and replied not. The gipsy's blood rose.
"My Lord," said the gipsy, "you rejected  "Is it in your place, to assume a pride
my proposals last eve, and with them  the like this ?" he demanded. "Are you not at
crown of Portugal. Now, you are my pri. my absolute disposal and mercy ?"
soner."                                   No reply yet.
"Name your ransom, vilest of traitors I "  "By my soul," ci ied leassor in a voice,
"Nay, I leave that to His Majesty, Don that re-echoed from the rocky ceiling, "by
Juan, into whose brotherly hands I will de- my soul, ye shall rue this. Forget you that
liver you!"    -                        with a toss of my arm I can cast the proofs
" Render me up a prisoner to my brother! of your mother's honor, and of your honest
Imposssible I"                          birth, into the fire."
"Not only possible,but actually true I"  The Prior turned, and said reluctantly:
"Gipsy! why have you done this! I un- " By these threats, what is it you expect
derstand not your purpose, not your ways. to gain from me?  What purpose have you
Once you offer aid to me, again you take me in regard to myself?  Disclose all openly,
captive in the midst of my camp. Once you instead ot urging me thus indirectly, and,
offer to seat me on the throne, again you rob perhaps, we can arrange our differences.
me of the only documents that entitle me to You wish me to promise religious liberty
it. Gipsy I you are the devil11"       to Portugal, on my accession to the throne?"
The face of Massor assumed such a bad, "Three hours ago, I said so 1"
scornful, yet agonizing smile, that the Prior  "I can not do it, but I can exercise my
retreated several paces, and crosed himself mercy, and shield, by the power of prero.
devoutly, several times.                gative, any s3ct that trespasses against re-
"I have a higher purpose than aan ever ligious laws."
be comprehended by you," replied the Gip- "'Taat would not be enough," replied
sy, as every trace of that smile vanished, to Mass',r. "And then it is too late, sir. You
give way to a determined hardiness of ex will now submit to the King, as a brother
pression. "A purpose high as heaven, holy should."
as the angels.  For this I work with human
tools, with men like you.  Now, it becomes
necessary for the interests of my purpose to

11

I

109


110                      ''iHE  FATA
CHAPTER XXXI.
THE ROYAL SPIES,
Some days have passed, since Massor cap
tured tI e Prior di Castro, and we enter one
of the royal apartments, where we find the
rebel chief and the gipsy in the presence of
the King. They had arrived the previous
day, at the same time with father Domingo.
The priest had seen the King immediately,
and communicated the failure of his mission.
We can now imagine Juan's asto dishment,
when Don Antonio imparted to him the in-
formation that the Prior di Castro was in
Lisbon, ready to throw himself at his majes.
ty's feet Permission was immediately grant
ed, and the two brothers again stood face to
face.
The King, proudly kind and severe as he
endeavored to be, could not prevent a smile
of triumph from playing around his lips, and
the Prior, knowing his safety lay in submis
sion, controled the quick, bitter feeling that
welled up in his heart, aud, kneeling, kissed
Juan's hand.
"So you have, at last, recognised your duty,
senor?" inquired Juan, coldly.
"I have been misled by intriguing men,
my royal brother," replied the Prior hum-
bly.
"Misled? Children and fools are misled,
but not men."
The Prior's face flushed. He swallowed
his anger, and said:
"Your majesty pardons me?"
"If you will be worthy of my pardon."
"I will retire to the convent of St. Garcani."
"It is too exposed. The castle of Lisbon
is much more suitable."
"Does your majesty look upon me as a pri-
soner?"
"On the contrary, we shall be happy to
employ you in a station of trust. YQu will
govern the castle-" the King was silent,for a
moment, and the Prior looked at him in as
tonishment, for this he had never hoped-
"jointly, with the present governor," added
the King.
The Prior's eyes fell in disappointment.
What ths King had said was, in other words
a sentence of imprisonment. For though he
should actually be instituted as governor of

L S E C R E T,
the castle, yet he would be closely confined to
his own rooms there, and, though treated
with respect, would neither. be allowed to
move freely, nor to see his friends. His as-
sociate, the present occupant, would in fact
be governor of the castle, and jailor of him.
self. He ventured a faint remonstrance.
"I have religous duties to observe."
"Since you have disregrarded your duties,
as a subject, it will not harm you to neglect
your priestly observances. But we can fur.
nish you with scourges and bread and water,
in the castle as well as in a convent."
"I recommend myself to your mercy,
senor.".
The King turned away fromethe Prior
and looking at Massor said:
"So to you, I owe this triumph, I thought
you were mine enemy."
"I am your majesty's friend and servant'
But zeal for your royal interests did not alone
urge me to rob the rebels of their head, and
to bring him to Lisbon."
"I suppose not. You seem to have a pro-
per regard for your own interests."
"I never forget my interests, which in this
case are also the interests of your majesty's
people."
The King frowned.
"Let us discuss these matters alone. Call
the captain of my guard!"
The captain entered, and Juan addressed
hir. "Take a strong guard and convey the
Prior di Castro to the castle, as secretly as
it can be done. I have already informed the
governor of my wishes in regard to hin."
The Prior arose, and in bitter scorn, took
his sword and offered it to the captain.
Don Antonio, who stood behind the royal
chair immediately directed Juan's attention
to this fact.
It were, perhaps, as wall," said the King,
in a whisper.
"No sire, you would make the Pior pop-
ular. His misfortune would excite compas-
sion, and instead of annihilating his party,
you would cause it to increase."
"But what effect will this mild punish-
ment have on the rebels and disaffected?"
" tThey will think, the Prior has betrayed
them, anddeserted his own cause. For yet

I

I

apparently reward him, though in reality il
is imprisonment."
The captain had already taken the Prior'
sword, and was about to lead him away
when Juan said:
"Return his sword, to my brother. He is
appointed governor of the castle. Have a
care that you give him safe guidance through
the streets, and leave him not until within
the walls of'the castle. He has enemies and
his safety is dear to us."
With a bow the Prior replied to this
mockery, and throwing his sword upon the
floor left the apartment The captain, obe-
dient to a sign of Don Antonio, picked it
up, and followed the Prior.
"Now, gipsy, I have fulfilled my promise
to you, and I find you have been true to me.
Complete what you have bogun, and deliver
those documents into my hands."
"When your majesty has not temporarily
suspended, but totally abrogated the Inqui-
sition."
"It is very bold of you to broach this sub-
jeet again. Very bold of you, even to appear
before me."
"Bold, perhaps, but I incur no danger.
Those documents are a hostage for my safety."
"But by your own act, you have rendered
those papers 'iseless. The Prior's life is
now in our hand."
"You dare not murder him!"
"Idare to be just!"
"Let us talk plain. I have trusted in you.
I have rendered you an important service.-
I am about to give up to you the documents
which constitute your brother dangerous.-
I demand a reward."
"Your claims are just, and rewarded you
shall be."
"I demand the abolishment of the Inqui.
sition.'
"For the delivery of those papers?"
"And for my other services, in bringing
the Prior, a prisoner to Lshon."
Don Antonio whispered for a moment to
the King.
"Gipsy," said Juan, " the Inquisition is
suspended. So it shall remain at present.
If a week hence, I find it still necessary to
gain possession of those papers, I will give
up the Inquisition for them."

II

t   " Promise moe, that in either case the sus-
pension of this tribunal shall last for two
8 weeks yet."
The King thought for a moment and then
said:
"I promise. Depart now gipsy, and a
week from hence you shall know our answer.
Meanwhile, thanks, for the Prior di Castro."
Massor stood doubtingly, for some mo-
ments, and then said:
" May you be not unworthy of the trust I
repose in you."
Slowly he left the royal apartments.
As he descended the great staircase, a
bustle arose below, and presently appeared
a hale and hearty man of dashing appearance
and magnificently arrayed. A brilliant suite
of cavaliers accompanied him. The guards
saluted, and the master of ceremonies con-
ducted them to the antechamber. of the
throne room.
It was the ambassador of the emperor,
Ch arles V, to whom the King gave audience
that day.
In the antechamber they were detained
for some time, and then with the loud an-
nouncement of his titles, Senor, the ambas.
saidor, was admitted. The King received
him seated upon the throne.
Let us follow Massor, who, waiting until
the gorgeous throng was passed, inquired,
with trembling eagerness, of one of the ush-
ers, for what purpose the ambassador had
audience. The usher silently looked at the
gipsy, and then, without a word, passed on
disdainfully. Massor suppressed his wrath,
and hastened to the courtyard. There wait-
ed, in gloriously gay medley, the servants of
the ambassador's suite.  Ti e proud and
beautiful horses champed their bridles, and
moved impatiently. Massor began a con-
versation with one of the servants and, by
lint of soft replies to rough jokes, brought
the men to speak of the ambassador.
" Why," said the servant, "you must
have been abroad or slept, for the last week.
All Lisbon talks of this matter. Queen El-
eanora
" Queen EleanoralI What about her?"
" Why, she marries the brave King of
the French, and nothing else. That's why

'  O , i'LOTS ANDJ COUNTEItPLOTS.


112                       Trn   FATA
we came all the way from Valladolid to Lis-
bon, and that's why we are here, this morn-
ing."
The gipsy said nothing. but abruptly pass.
ed on out of the precincts of the palace, and
into the city.
"This is no news to me," he thought,
"and yet it pains me so much. I have nev.
er looked at her but as the wife of
Good heaven! Will this torture never end ?
Always, always Tantalus yearning for the
fruit. diving for the water, and always the
fruit out of his reach, the water driven from
his tongue! Great God! shall my whole life
fNll sacrifice to vain efforts ?"
An expression of intense agony distorted
Massor's features, as he half r.urmurred
these cries of a wrung heart. Even the two
men, who, sent by the King, followed his
wild and careless steps, felt a kind of com-
passionate fear, and increased the distance
between themselves and the evidently suf.
fering man.
It was easy to track him, for he seemed
careless of all external objects. He walked,
scarcely lifting his eyes to direct himself,
and muttering, in a low, stifled voice, broken
words and exclamations.
"AhI and I consoled her, I encouraged
her, when -. Good GodI how unhappy
will she be in the lascivious gaieties of that
country, and I - with the pain in my heart,
with the burning sore in my breast ! I knew
it. I thought myself prepared to endurepre.
pared to suffer, and now -now Iam mad."
He covered his features with the rim of
his slouched hat, and walked quickly out of
the city, in the environs of which they were
now, towards Belem. The two spies follow
ed him afar off. But Massor, generally so
careful and cautibus, did not even cast a
look at them. He had in reality no faculty
or attention to expend upon the caution
trouble, strife and demands of external life,
because all were absorbed and participated
in the terrible struggle that raged in th
inmost recesses of his soul.
"Aih," ho sighed as, weary of the agony
he endeavored to blot the subject from hib
thoughts, "we prepare ourself for death
too, we know that we must die, as surely a

S8 EcEET,
we live, and-yet when the last hour comes,
how fearfully do we combat with the dark
angel; how powerfully do we struggle for
life. I prepared myself for this, it has como
and, Great God, what shall I do to stay my
reason ? What can I da to chase madness
from my brain ?.
Sometimes running, sometimes walking,
the gipsy reached Belem,. and, stopping at
the inn of St Ignatius, called to the keeper:
"My horse!"
A splendid black steed was brought, and
Massor, mounting, rode away. But the two
spies were not to be shaken off. Unable to
procure -hoises in time to follow the gipsy,
they concluded to dog him on foot,. which
was, after all, no hard task, as he rode very
slowly, and was still buried in his own
thoughts.
The gipsy rode to the camp of his tribe,
which was again upon the same hill, where
we at first met them, when Donna Gloria
escaped from the convent. Massor had
chosen, for his temporary residence, the
small cave, upon the suminit, which Gloria
occupied 'the night she passed with the
gipsies. F-om this cave he could not only
overlook the encampment, but it also com-
manded an extended view of the surround.
ing country  Massor gave some orders to
the crowd of gipsies that welcomed his ar-
rival, put his horse in charge of a young
man, and then ascended to the small cave.
When the spies, that followed him, had
carefully noted all this, from the top of t o
f trees, which they climbed the better to-
f observe his motions after arriving at the
gipsy camp, they returned to the next vil-
lage. Although extremely fatigued, they
tarried not, but, hiring two horses, spurred
on toward Lisbon immediately. Doubtless
the King   had promised good pay, for
, welcome intelligence.
,  Thus we leave Massor, tossing sleeplessly
d upon his bed of straw, in the cave. The
e spies sent by King .luan, to dog his steps,
have been successful, and are galloping to
, isbon, to inform his Majesty of the gipsy's
s whereabouts. Has Massor the fatal doeu-
, ments of the Prior with him in the cave ?
s Does the King intend to have them stolen.

Oa, PLOTS       AND
or taken by violence? What is the cause of
the gipsy's sorrow, what the occasion which
stirred up those emotions of bitterness in
his soul? Does the chieftain know of Glo-
ria's death, and that all the hopes he founded
on that beauteous lady were shattered upon
the rock of her passions ?
We shall see. And coming pages will
solve the enigma cf his character, which,
grand and mysterious, restlessly working for
purposes asgrand and mysterious, is as yet
ao enigma. Meanwhile we leave this part
of the story,-the Prior an honored prisoner,
the King again secure, the Queen bethrothed
to France, Massor in his camp, the spies has
tening to Lisbon, the Inquisition suspended,
the rebels dispersed, Fidaro with the gipsies
-and turn to Donna Rosa Bananda.
C A P TER XXXx II.
T H E A B D U C T I O N. -
Tis near the close of day. Rosa Bananda
sits eon an embroidered stool, pensively
gazing at the sky. In her hand dangles a
rose colored note, from which the silver
thread is pending. Casting her eyes again
upon it, she s3ans once more the page, and
presses it to her lips. Her bosom heaves
passionately, and her eyes soften with emo
tion, as she reads, in that murmuring voice,
so expressiveof surpr so and joy:
"Dearest Rosa: I irve returned, and, be
fore 1 can wait upon your mother, I must
see you alone. They tell me that you are
free. Be at the gate thataleads from  tlhe
rear of tire garden, whea all have retired,
and there meet,-
Your                     ENRIQUE"
The letter had been delivered to her a
short time since by Maria Flunoz, who, after
Gloria's death, had entered the service of'
Rosa. A stranger had delivered it to her
with the  request to give it to Rosa when
alone.  All doubts of Rosa's were now
solved, and the full confidence of love re
turned, with the knowledge of Enrique't.
return. She was elated the more, because,
being free from liguel, the loving maiden
believed in a speedy removal of all obstrue
tions between Enrique and herself.
Who knows not the delight, that, as it
were, pervades and intoxicates the soul,
15

COUNTERPLOTS.                     113
when we hear of the loved one's return,
when we are surprised to find the dearest
one near us, instead of far distant? Rosa
still thought of Enrique as far away, with-
out probable chance of safe return, and, at
once, while tortured by doubts of his love,
a note is, put in her hand, which announces
his safe return, love an1 happiness.
She sat there dreaming, conjuring up the
loved form as she hoped to behold it, irqa.
gining to hear the sounds and words that
would meet her ear, and forming replies
to the endearing epithets, which she
fancied to hear. It was dark in the apart-
ment, and Rosa still sat, alone? no!I not
alone. The chamber was not dark, not
empty to her dreamy gaze. Her eyes were
not turned to the shadows that dwelled
around, but gazed internally upn the-
golden fabrications of her youthful imagi.
nation,
The voice of the organ rolled through.
the fretted aisle of the high cathedral, and
floated in clouds of melody around the
shining altar, whose high tapers sh-me
through the pure white wreaths of incense,
like golden stars. The carved angels and
gilded ornaments, the glowing pictures and
flowery, lace-trimmeil altars, all smiled as
if in joy. And before the great altar with
the blazing tapers stood  Rosa, in bri tal
costume at the side of Enrique, and the
Cardinal in scarlet robes approached, and
blessed their union, and married them.
Ar.d at the side of a pillar stood Miguel,
his face convulsed with rage, and his eyes
rolling with mad fire. As Enrique took
Rosa's hand, Miguel sprang between, and
with a hissing cry
Rosa opened her eyes, and found her
mother standing before her, with Maria
Flunoz. She had slept and dreamt.
"Will you not retire to bed ?" inquired
Donned, Bananda uneasily.
it was some moments before Rosa could
collect her thoughts, and ask:
"Is it late, mother? I seem, to have
slept for some time."
"I do not know how long you have sept.
But since you remained in your apartments
this evening, I came to bid you good night,


114,                      Tn   FATAL-SCORET,
and ise whether you were well. You lay on  "But, dear lady, must we go further yet?
this cushion sleeping, and to judge by your I feel almost as if something dreadful wa
words and gesticulations, dreaming."   about to happen."
"It was a happy dreamI"               "Unclose the door, foolish girl," cried
"Do you feel quite well, Rosa?"      Rosa, eagerly.
"Not very, my dear mother. I will retire The key was there, and Maria, turning it,
to bed now."                           threw back the wooden door, until it re-
"Good night then, my dear 1" and Donna bounced from the wall. Both went out.
Bananda, after kissing her daughter's brow,  They could look on the fields, bare and
left the apartment.                    shorn of their golden crops. None was
Rosa rose, to be undressed by Maria, and there.
the small rose colored note of Enrique fell  "He has not come yet," said Rosa, slightly
to the floor.                          disappointed.
" No, no, I can not go to bed," she said to "I hear approaching steps," whispered
'the waiting maid. "Enrique awaits me; Maria, bending her head, "let us go back."
Maria, will you not accompany me to the  "It is he I" was Rosa's joyous ejacula.
garden ?"                               tion, as a man approached, along the wall
"To the garden ?" inquired Maria. "Will of the garden, with slow steps. The females
you go to the garden now ?"             did not see the other figures that, crouch.
"I must, girl. I must go down; but I ing down in the shadow of the walls, fol-
feel so uneasy and weak, that I have not lowed the first.
courage to go alone."                    The figure came, held out its arms,
"But why go at all ?"  -             and Rosa lay on his bosoap. In the same
Rosa hesitated for a moment, and then moment the other men had    closed the
said:                                  garden door, and now endeavored to secure
"I must meet one there, who is very dear Maria. But the heroic chambermaid, al-
to me. Come girl, and let us descend I"  though taken by surprise, was not so easily
Without further words, Rosa drew an secured. She had scarcely realized the in-
Indian scarf around her; and left the apart- tention of the men, when, with her back to
ment. Maria followed. Along the balcony, the door, she began using her arms and fists
past the statue of Diana, where the lady with brilliant effect. So, at least, thought
paused for a moment, with a happy smile, the aggressors, two of whom, she caused, as
and down the staircase, they went.     the modern English has it, "to see stars."
The garden was still, fragrant, but it was  Rosa, meanwhile, had been ardently em-
with the last, delicate, ripe fragrance of near braced, and was supremely happy in meeting
death, which the plants exhaled. The trees Enrique again. But now, her attention be-
were still green, but it was the dark brownish ing attracted by Maria's struggles, she drew
greenness of autumn. The air was still back from her lover's arms, and turned.
mild, but it was the bright failing warmth,  "Enrique," she said, "who are these ?"
which is but the last trace of vanished sum-  "Fear not my love," replied the man,
mer. The ground was already strewed with who stood in the shadow of the wall, "Fear
leaves, and stems and discolored remnants not - "
of late flowers.                        "Miguel I" cried Rosa, who immediately
Rosa walked rapidly through the tree- recognised his voice, .  Miguel 1"
bordered avenues, and as the dry stems   The rejected bridegroom  saw  that all
rustled beneath her feet, the birds were concealment would be vain. Rosa had re-
roused from their nests, and with negligent cognised him.
ehirps, fell asleep again. At last she ar-  "Yea, myself," he replied, "and come to
rived at the gate. Her trembling hands re- take my right by force, since you deny it
fused to open,                         ne by fair means. You are mine, you
" Maria, please open this door I"    belong to me !"

I

OR, PLOTS       AND   COUNTERPLOTS.                       115
"Miguel, let me, retire. You will not do wain, "this is a brave lass, and has been
me harm. Back I" she cried in a piercing fighting like a general."
voice, as the gentleman approached, and "Place her here; and now shove off !"
endeavored to clasp her in his arms. "Back,  The sailors stowed themselves away on
dastard, or I cry for help !'          the long, narrow boat, and the oars began
Nothing daunted, but rather enraged to sweep the stream with their monotonous
at Rosa's resistance, Miguel threw his cloak strokes. The boat shot over the water, light
over her head], and, thus partly stifling her as a bird, and swift as a fish.
cries, he bore her off. That slender and  It was found necessary to bind and gag
fair form writhed, and struggled, and fought Maria, for the safety of the enterprise. The
in his arms, but with the strength of boatswain performed this duty, and finished
passion, of frenzied love,he bore it ol', with- by imprinting a hearty smack upon the
out feeling the least weight or difficulty chainbermaid's cheek.
Meanwhile Maria had been secured by     Rosa was so quiet that when Miguel had
the other men, and was borne away after time to throw a glance upon her, and per-
her mistress. The men had the greatest ceive how motionless she lay upon his lap,
trouble to prevent her from breaking loose. a sudden fear crept through his heart. He
She began to scream for help.         bent down over her head, and touched the
"Shut your mouth, or I'll gag you I" soft skin of her face and neck. He clasped
threatened one of the men.              her hands, and kissed them. Rosa. was pas-
Maria redoubled her cries.            sive and cold. Agony seized upon his mind.
"Lock her jaws," said another, who      "She is dead; she is dead!" he cried,
seemed to exercise a kind of command "and I am the cause I"
over the rest.                            "Do not cry so loud, senor," said the
One of them, accordingly, by clasping boatswain, and laying his hand upon the
with the left hand the top of Maria's head, maiden's bosom,, he continued:
and with the other pressing her chin up. "The girl has just fainted. Hold her up
wards, securely held her jaws, and stopped to the night air."
her cries.   't                           Miguel did so, and soon found the small
The men, in whom the reader will re- hands grow warm again, and the slight form
cognise the sailors, that Misardo had put in his arms to move. Rosa recovered, and
at Miguel's disposal, had much difficulty in with her consciousness regained the power
keeping near their leader.  For Miguel to perceive her terrible situation. In vain
bounded and ran with the energy of one she endeavored to escape from Miguel's arm;
in love, and felt no fatigue. He arrived at in vain she cried for help. All efforts were
a secluded spot upon the shore of the river, fruitless, and her voice died away upon the
and, hailing the boat that lay darkly sleeping waters.
upon the waves some distance from the land,  They were now at the mouth of the river,
sprang in, and, placing Rosa tenderly upon and the waves there, growing stronger and
his knees, cried:                       larger,- fell with a cutting noise upon the
"Now, row for your lives, my men; row sides of the boat. The ship lay in the harbor
to the vessel I"                        ready for sailing, whenever the boat arrived.
"We must wait for the boatswain and his  When the sun rose in splendor, her first
men," was the reply of the sailors, and one rays gilded the large white sails of the
said:                                  good ship, St. Pedro di Alvendi, as she
"Would you leave Joseppo on shore ?"  stood out for sea upon her voyage to Sicily.
At that moment, the rest of the party ap-  Mig-.el paced the deck with a frowning
peared, and carrying Maria.             brow, and, in the cabin, Rosa lay sobbing on
"Hasten," cried Miguel, " or we may yet Maria's bosom. The sailors, careless and
be discovered."                         merry, were busy at their usual duties.
"Aye, aye, senor," said Joseppo, the boats. Misardo was superintending the mending of


F a , PLOTS AN  COOL N TE.-RPLO'rs.

a sail. The waves reflected the sunny rays, the soprano of the ripples, the contralto of
in brilliant ealors, and frisky fishes played the waves. and the bass of the billows.
in the gay light of morning. Fresh and in-  But the beautiful chant was not heard
vigorating was the breeze that swept over the by Rosa, who, almost wild with despair,
glassy surface of the ocean, and filled the raved in the cabin, and endeavored to open
sails of the ship, until it seemed to shoot the fastened door; - it was unheard,' by
through the water, all garnished with a Maria, whose whole strength was necessary
glittering wreath and trainiof foam.    to prevent her mistrees from harming her.
The morn was so fresh, all nature so smil- self; it was unheard by Miguel, who, having
ing the ship so trim and bounding, and the accomplished his desire, having Rosa quite
feelings of the passengers so discordant with at his mercy, found ashes at the core of his
the fresh beauties of the day. Misardo success, and half repented of what he had
(lone, and half steeled his breast to further
greedy, Miguel tortured by love and remorse,  de  it as uherd ba srdhr
Rosa despairing, Maria angry, how did all'inisdeeds; it was unheard by Misardo,
these emotions accord with the scenes of dreaming and talking of money and money
nature, with the dewy blue of the sky, the and only the sailor boy at the mast head, in
fresh gold of the sun, and the bright green of whose mind thoughts of the home and the
the ocean, here and there sprinkled with mother he had left, were awake, heard
snowy gulls? Fair Nature, external to man, the grand, mysterious hymn
loves also in spring, rejoices also in summer,  C
mourns in fall, and dies in winter, yet is
never jealous, never despairing, never angry,  T  H E INT EIE uW.b
never complaining! But, let us turn froinTn
these rejections, for we are on the sea, and cabin door, and entered. On the couch, that
its voice speaks to us.                 was fastened to the back wall, lay Rosa, pale
and exhausted. Before her, on the floor,
Have you, indulgent reader, never heard knelt Maria, vainly endeavoring to whisper
the voice of the sea ? Never listened to its words of comfort through her tears and sobs.
songs? No? Then imagine some powerful, Miguel at once saw the very unpleasant
rich and impressive contralto voice, imagine positionwhich he was about to assume, and,
it trembling in its lightest, airiest and soft- considering how much the presence of a
est pianissimo notes, and gradually swelling, stranger would act as a check upon Rosa's
expanding, until the full, rich sounds are expression of her feelings, stepped back, and
almost oppressive in their power of melody, closing the door, called Misardo.
again rising to the highest, most triumphant  " What do you wish, senor?" inquired
notes that lift the heart on the wings of the the Captain.
aanbition, honor and glory they seem to sing  "I wish for your company. Let us go
of, and dying in tremulous sorrow, expiring intothe cabin."
like the last sigh of an angel; imagine a con-  "I can not now; for this rascally cook will
tralto of frst merit, passing through these waste my victuals, if I take my eye off him."
stages of song, and you will have an idea of "Come, I say! I will bear all expenses,
the voice of the ocean. And this voice sings you know."
of grand and beautiful things. It sings Of  "Very true; but it is sinful to allow waste.
coral caves and pearly ;banks, of seaweed Why should that be thrown away, which
forests, and green solitudes, where the scar- God has given us for useful purposes? And
let, white and azure waterifowers glow, it this cook persists in taking two spoons full of
sings of amber cliffs and whitened bones, oil for a fry!"
of sunken ships and wealth untold, of green  "May the evil one bake you in your own
paired mermaids, and huge monsters, it oil, for ever! Will you eome here and ac.
sings of the howling storm and the gorgeous company me?",
sunset. Oh, if you are ever at sea, listen to " I will charge it to your expense," re-

plied Misardo, and with surly brow  ap. IIhad every right to love you, to look forward
preached the cabin door.              to the tine when you would be m'ne I And
Miguel opened, and both entered,    at the very time when I returne I from Eng.
Rosa had risen, and, with pale face, bu 'land joyously, hopefully, I fin I a rival in the
eyes glowing with indignation, slowly looked heart of my bride; I find her, ini whom all my
a&amp; Miguel and the captain.             hopes centered, faithless. Rosa, will you not
None of them knew what.to say, or how to repair the terrible wrong you have done me?
open this scene.                       Will you not heal the wound that you have
Miguel began to summon his courage and inflicted ?"
tried to pronounce a word or tw.o, but   "Imay have wronged you, Miguel," re-
scarce had the first embarrassed sound plied the maiden, raising her beautiful face,
passed his lips, when a glance of fiery from which the tears had washed away all
scorn, shooting as it were from Rosa's eyes, traces of anger, "but consider that it would
again sealed his lips.                 have been a much gre iter wrong to become
"What means this ?" inqired the lady, your wife, while another possessed my af-
in a voice cold and severe; like ice.  section. Consider whether I could sustain,
"Be calm, lady I" said Miguel.  I may cheer, gladden and comfort you, upon the
have acted wrongly, may have exceeded path of li e, while my heart tuirne I to an
propriety, but oh, [love you so much, and other, an I my tears fove 1 for blighted
that mimst be my excuse."              hopes, and witheredl wishes ? Restore me to
"Senor, have done with these phrases my home, Miguel, and I will be a friend to
that mean nothing. You have forcibly ab- you, I will
ducted me from  the house of my mother,  " Rosa, cease. It is too late. You must
you have -you are a forger, and a villain." marry me."
"Do you know, Senora, that you are     "Say'hot so. For it can never be. I care
wholly in my power," said Miguel, frowning. not what you do. My hand shall never be
"Dare you boast of that ? Know, senor, yours. But Iask you now, as a gentleman,
that now, more than ever, an impassable as a knight, to take me betck to my home.
gulf separates us! Were my affections free, If you are not churlish--
nay, if I loved you ever so much, this villany  " I wish nothing but what is fair. Your
would prevent the slightest connection be hand was promised to me - fulfil that pro-
tween us. I am of honorable race, senor 1" mise, and you shall return home."
"These words, are vain. You are on "Nothing but what is fair ?" exclaimed
board of this ship in my power, and you Rosa. "Call you the forged letter, the violent
shall leave it only as my wife. The priest is abduction, fair?"
on board, your relatives would approve the  "Those were the necessary means to gain
step; you need but consent, aqd we are a certain end. LadyI enough. of this. You
wedded.  To-morrow   morning, you will know my resolution. You will learn to
again be in the arms of Donna Bananda !" think fair of it, while we travel to Sicily."
",My poor mother!" and Rosa bent her, "Never! you also know    my res-lution,
fair head upon her hands, while the tears senor, anl will see that 1 can keep it,
gushed from her eyes.                  though alone and helpless."
"No, no, Don Miguel," interposed Misardo, The door here opened, and a sailor an-
"I could not return to Lisbon without nounced dinner.
missing the market of Sicily. It would be  "Bri ig it in," said the captain.
an immense loss."                        "Senors, relieve mylady ofyour presence,"
"'Think of your mother, of her anxiety said Maria.
and fear," said Miguel in soft accents, ap-  " Hush, girl! we will stay here I"
preaching Rosa; "think, dearest, of your  Maria opened a door leading to a small
own situation, of my cruel sufferings, and of sleeping room, and helped Rosa to enter.
my great love. You were bethrothed to ma! She barred the door behind her.

116

THli FATAL  SI CRBT,

117

i
f
r


118       -Tan                 FATA
Meanwhile the table was set, and the
victuals brought in.
"Hie has taken two spoons full the rascal,"
cried the captain when he saw the fry.
Miguel now knocked softly at the door of
the chamber.
Maria opened it, and showed her face
pursed up, and eyes bright with a vixenish
glance.
"The meal is ready. We ask Donna Ro.
sa to preside at the table," he said.
Maria exchanged a few words with Rosa,
and then said:
"My mistress wishes rest and quiet.-
Proceed without her. She will not see you."
The door was again closed.
The captain sent for his brother, who bore
the unctioustame of father Modestus, and
the three dined without Rosa. Miguel eat-
ing and drinking, and not knowing what he
swallowed or why, but-his whole mind bent
on finding means to gain Rosa's affections.
Misardo regretting, that he had caused so
good a dinner to be served, when, after all,
thpe ldy di i not-appear. And father Mo.
destus stuffing himself with whatever he
could lay hands on. After dinner, Miguel
and Misardo walked upon the quarter deck,
while the priest remained yet at the table.
"Well captain," said Miguel, endeavoring
to assume a humorous tone, which lay far
from his true feelings at that moment, "the
ship is going at a rapid rate."
"Yes, yes," replied Misardo, "a rapid
rate. How much have you left of your pa.
trimony, Don Miguel?" heinquired, suddenly.
"How much ? What insolence is this?"
"You may call it insolence, senor, but it
is only a proper regard to business."
"A proper regard to business that con
cerns you not. Believe me, Misardo, it is
best.for you to keep your mind on your own
ship, and your own concerns, for if you ven-
ture from these upon ground that is not
yours-"
"Well, if Iventure from these,what then?"
"Then you will be crushed under foot like
the snail that has left its house."
Misardo tried to look offended, but suc-
eseded not. This bold reply had put down
his spirit. Miguel exercised that control

AL SECANT,
over the captain, which physical strength
and courage is apt to usurp, and which Is
possessed in a far hither degree, by mental
and moral elevation.
" Be not chafed at my words, but in ar.
ranging everything as you wished it, I have
incurred expeuises which if not reimbursed
would ruin me," said the captain.
" What is the aim of all your twaddle ?
Have I not acted generous enough in prom.
ising five hundred goldpieces and the repay.
ment of expenses ?"
"Oh surely, you have promised wellI
"What then is the meaning of your
words ?"
"To promise is one thing; to fulfil, anoth-
er."
"Dog of a captain! Do you doubt my
word ?"
" I doubt not your word, but your ability
to fulfil it." 1
"My ability to pay?"
"Yes. Be not offended."
"What? Know you not the wealth of
Donna Bananda, and of her daughter?"
" That belongs to them; aid they will
never pay me for forcibly aiding to abduct
the young lady."
"But I will. Do you not see, blockhead?"
"Ah I ah!" sighed Misardo. "Your mar-
riage with the young lady is an idle scheme.
She would rather kill herself than marry
you. I perceived that at once."
"Did you? Know then, stupid beastthat
ere we arrive at Sicily she will be my wife.
What knowest thou of woman ? "
" May Heaven aid you to conquer her!
This is the last straw I can catch at. Oh my
dear, my hard earned moneyI Will it ever
-return to its owner's purse?"
"Do not fear, captain."
"But you do not pursue the suit with ar-
dor. You look at the lady, as if she were
snow, that may not be touched. Oh, if I
had such a chance to gain a fortune, it would
pour fire through my veins, and I would go
about courting in a more ardent manner.-
Wealth to be gained by merely coaxing a
young chit to marry!   It -is a splendid
chance. If you fail, you deserve to be a
beggar all your life."

OR, PLOTS AND COUNTInPLOTS.

"But I shall not fail!  I treat her too
soft, too gentle; she has a strong will, but it
can not resist mine !"
"iYou are raving! She does resist you I"
"iNo longerI You will see that since the
gentleness of a gentleman will not succeed
with her, I will appear in all the roughness
of a soldier. She must marry me, t'.at is
settledI "
Here the priest, who had, meanwhile, still
continued to eat in the cabin, rejoined them,
wiping the fat from his mouth, with his
dirty sleeve.I
"Brother," he said, "I have observed
three important facts, on board of your ves.
eel."
"What are they, Modestus?"
"In the first place, the lady you have on
board is beautiful!"
"1We know that," replied Misardo.
"Is she in the cabin?"  inquired Miguel.
"Perhaps not now, since I have left," said
the priest.
"What do you mean by 'since I have
left?' Came she there only to seek you," said
Miguel.
"I imagineso," replied the priest, "since
the fair one said it herself."
"1What could she want with you ? Speak,
gross abomination of priesthood!"'
"Address me with proper respect, senor.
For though I am here to serve you, it is in
my proper dignity and office. lit officio Dei'
The lady bespoke my protection against
your wild attacks, senor, which I granted."
"Alh, indeedI " replied Miguel scornfully,
"and how will you protect her?"
"By stepping -"
"Fool," cried Misardo, "all the chance
we have of being paid by this gentleman,
rests on the accomplishment of his wishes,
and the success of his suit with this lady.
What induces you to meddle with other
men's concerns?  Keep your dirty fingers
in your own empty pockets."
" That alters the case, fratre io I Still
the lady is very pleasant to look at. Con-
cerning your advice to keep my dirty fin-
gem in my own empty pockets, know, infidel,
that these fingers, though dirty in the flesh,
are spiritually pure, and full of salvation.-

If my pockets, perchance, should be emp-
ty--"
" Thy belly is nevertheless full," broke in
Misardo.
"A very just observation. Now to the
second fact that has attracted my observa-
tion. Your cook puts not enough garlic to
the meat."
" Pshaw," replied Misardo, "his cookery
is expensive enough, since he uses two
spoonsful of fat to a fry."
" Holy RosandaI If he can make a fry
with two spoonsful he is a real artist. But,
regarding the garlic, he is too saving; my
stomach, even now, complains of the unsa-
vory meat. . Promise me, my brother, for
the sake of my -precious health, that you will
speak to the cook, on this point."
"Very well. Quiet your perturbed spirit,
holy father, and let us know the third obser-
vation you have made."
"My third observation is concerning my
grandmother's bedstead. She had to sell it,
poor, dear woman, for she needed money.-
Having agreed to sell it to one dealer, for a
certain price, she happened to meet another,
to whom she related her first bargain.
I will give yon so much more, said he
and will pay you in good money; for the
other man is a counterfeiter.
My grandmother then immediately took
his money and soid, therefore, the bedstead
to him."
" In what manner, oh dirtiest and most
stupid of priests, does this bng rigmarole
apply to anything on this vessel?" inquired
Miguel.
"In this respect, worthiest of gentlemen,"
replied Modestus. "My brother of a captain
and myself have made a bargain with you,
concerning the carrying off.this lady. But
now the second dealer, or this lady offers to
pay double the sum you promised for bearing
back and liberating her. If we keep the
agreement with you, sir," addressing Migu-
el, "we assist in a piece or rascality. If we
bear back this lady, it is an act of the high-
est virtue."
" Al, traitor," cried Miguel, striking the
priest on the cheek.
" Al, fool!I"  cried Misardo turning his,
back upon him.

119-


120                       Tna    FATAL    SEC RET,
"Well, well, brother of mine," he said:- a straw in her misery, entreated him to pro.
I shall know how to acquaint the Inquisi- tect her until the ship arrived at Sicily; for
tion with this act, and to disclose eoncern- she feared everything from the wild passion
ing the treaaures you have hoarded-" he of Miguel.
spoke no further. Misardo sprang at him,  Father Modestus in his astonishment and
mad with rage, and belabored the poor hon- pity, promised all she required as far as it
est priest's face, most unmercifully.   was in his power to prevent or accomplish
He was interrupted by the report of a certain things. We have seen, in the previ.
sailor:                                 ous chapter, how he went about it, and how
" Senor, please look at the sky."     he failed.
They were now in the Mediterranean sea.  When the Priest had retired, Rosa ate
That beautiful sea, which seems an azure some fruits which Maria had selected for
mirror in a golden frame, presented now a her, and drank a small cup of sweet Spanish
frowning aspect. The waves rippled angrily, wine. Let not the reader suspect Misardo
and dark clouds overcast the sky, generally guilty of this extravagance. Nay, he had
so pure and glowing. 'The sun, with a red, carefully stowed away the few bottles, which
angry ring around it, shone in asky of green were on board. But father Modestus had
radiance, which again was rapidly being the nose of an ogre, a nose that was worth
covered by a heavy curtain of bluish black millions. lie felt some finish odor hang
clouds. The wind was fresh, but the faint about the extremities of his olfactoriAs -
moans of its breath, and the quick changes and when his brother had left, like the ogre
of its violence, now distending the sails, in the story, followed the odor so long, until
again allowingg them to flap heavily against he unearthed the precious bottles.
the masts, were the sure precursors of a  The wine had a good effect on Rosa's sys.
storm. Gulls had been passing over the tem, and revived her stunned energies-.-
vessel in rapid flight. The sea murmured Again the blood circulated through her trans.
anxiously at the approaching storm, and de parent cheeks, and again her eye won back
noted, here and thereby the large and surg- some of its usual radiance. She even began
ing billows it formed, the -internal commo- to hope again, although that hope was found.
tion, already begun.                    ed merely on the fat and dirty father Modes.
" There is a storm coming on," said Mi- tus.
sardo, after a rapid glance around. "Priest,  Then entered Miguel. The sudden pale-
go below and pray, if you can. Don Migu- ness of Rosa testified to the feelings with
el, you had best retire to the cabin."  which she received him.
"Yes, senor! I will again attempt to soft  "Senora," he said, "you have now had
en the heart of my lovely captive," replied some time to reflect, and doubtless have de.
Miguel.                                 termined to accept my suit."
" And if it soften not, bend it forcibly,"  "This is a useless question, senor, since
said the captain, walking away and giving you know my resolution is as strong at one
his orders.                             time as at another. I love you not, and can
The priest went below deck. Miguel en- never wed you.   Remember that, senor,
tered the cabin.                        and it will be a reply to every question you
--                   intend to ask me,' and Rosa endeavored to
C H A P T E R- X X X I V.         re enter the chamber.
THE sTOatS.               "Indeed, indeed," cried Miguel barring
Rosa, to satisfy her faithful maid, and pre- the way, "return to your seat, senora. For
vent the weakness she felt from becoming ut- our account is not so easily settled. Think
ter prostration, had entered the cabin, when you I have faced cannon, to be braved by a
she thought it empty.                   woman ?  Or that I practised diplomacy t9
The priest was still there, 'owever. Rosa be foiled by a romantic girl ?  My wife you
had never seen him berore, and, catching at are, you must be, and if not, by gentle

OatPLOTs AND' COUNTERPLOTS.,   .-121

ineans,then by strong. If you'long after
your lighthaired milksop, it is all the worst
for you."
"Senor, this language is unbecoming -
Let.me either pass to my chamber, or leave
the cabin. For you grow more and mor,
hateful to me, as your conduct developes it
self."
" Very well, I see how it is. In an hono
rable way you will not consent to be my
wife. I have you in my power, and I tell
you Rosa, that dishonored, you shall yet
kneel before me, and ask for the hand you
now so proudly reject!"
Rosa grew pale, very pale; still, with the
dignity of innocence and grief she said:
"Senor I you are mad. Pray, relieve us
of your frenzied ravings."'
"Frenzied ravings. you call them?  If I
act madly you are the cause of it, and you
shall be the cure. Enough of mutual re-
proaches. Come, my love, and kiss me."
Miguel scarcely had pronounced these
words, when he was at Rosa's side, and had
his arms twined around her. With all her
feeble strength the maiden wrestled, but to
nopurpose. Miguel's face was close to her's,
and his burning lips touched her cheek.
Rosa, unable to disengage herself, angry,
terrified and disgusted, criea loudly for help.
Aid however was at hand; Maria had con-
sidered how best to serve her mistress; see-
ing Rosa struggling in Miguel's arms, she
approached anddrawinr his own sword from
the seablrd at his side, pushed him back
with one hand, while, in the other, she bran.
dished the glittering weapon.
. " Back, coward," she cried, "or I will kill
you with your own sword."
- "Kill, me, and I shall'at least die in her
arms!" cried Miguel in passionate frenzy,
drawing Rosa closely to his bosom.
Maria was undecided for a moment, and
then resolutely thrust the sharp point of the
sword into Miguel's shoulder.  A sharp
pang shot across his chest. It was only a.
flesh wounJl; it is true, yet the blood spurted
out, and the nerves throbbed with the shock,
which always attends, more or less, any in-
jury. It is generally a great difference to
say "' Kill, me," and to feel the cold steel en-
1 6.

t teriig the body, It was so in this cane.-
e Miguel instantly released Rosa, and started
back.
"Hellish woman, you have wounded mel"
e he cried, and threw himself on Maria. Bt
e she eluded him, and always presented the
point of the sword, wherever he tried 4t ap-
proach her. Rosa flew to the door of the
- cabin to call for aid. Miguel had barred  .
Even while she was undoing the bars, Migu-
I el, had almost caught Maria and disarme4
t her. But the nimble chamberraid again
slipped him  and escaped into the Onmall
chamber beyond the cabin. Immedsiaoiy
Miguel had closed the door upon her, and
thrown a heavy iron candlestick. upon tho
massy hooks that projected from, the doay
and wall, to hold the bar which lcked it.-
But the bar was missing in this instance,
and, therefore, Miguel used a candlestick in
its place. Vain were the attempts of Maria
to burst the door and re-enter the cabin.1--
She was securely confined in the bed champ.
ber.
Rosa had succeeded in opening the other
door, but, ere she could slip out, a strong
hand seized her robe and drew her baok.-
It was Miguel, who re-closed the door, and
barred it.
"You are mine now, wholly mine!'".he
cried, drawing hei to his breastwhilehis
face flushed dark red and his eyesemitted a
wild phosphorescent lighk
"I am not, I never will be," was the deter-
mined reply of Rosa, as she tore away froin
him, and endeavored to, defend herself with
a chair, Miguel easily caught the chair and
disarmed her. But, again she slipped along
the wall to the door which Miguel had but
imperfectly closed and, tossing the bar at
Miguel opened it and ran out. He followed.
In the hbat of his passion Miguel had not
perceived the change of weather which had
ecourred. Rosainber feat and'troubleoould
not 'observe it. But now they wore on the
deck of the vessel, and saw the treouendois
storm which raged on the sea.-
The air was black, thickly blaok, and,,
sharp, violent rain dashed throughti)odrc.
ness. Like mountains and like hill, aose
the hge billows, with their angry ,white

I,


122                      Tan    FATAL    SCENT,
crest., and, fell again with a loud splash, nings flashed, with  continued intensity,
beating the surface of the sea. When the through the sky, and' seemed to tear fiery
eye had accustomed itself to bear the dark- furrows in the sea.
ness, it could perceive a ghostly phosphorous  A stunning report! A blinding flashI and
presence in the air that made "darkness the vessel trembled and shook, and buried
visible."                             itself in a deep furrow. The mainmast was
The waves, too, when they burst and fell shivered to fragments, and the stump stood
with stunning sound, seemed to crush a fire in flames. It had been struck by lightning.
hid-beneath them, for sparks of light flew  Now -the buckets were lowered, to extin-
around their foaming base. . The clouds guish the fire. In vain. It was with the
were bent by the heaviness of their load, greatest difficulty that any water could be
mad the storm furiously whipped the air.  caught, and the sailors were so terrorstrielk
The ship flew along under a small topsail, en that they knew not how to apply it with
*bleh was the only canvass that she could advantage. Misardo cursed. and cried in
bear in such- a gale. And ever. then, she vain. At last no man tried to extinguish
few with the speed of an arrow; now scud- the fire any more, but all fell to praying with
ding over the back of rising billows, then might and main.
breaking through the watersof bursted ones,  "I vow a six p'und wax taper to St. Pe.
she could scarcely bear the speed,. and all drn di Alvendi," cried one. "A silver cross
her timber creaked as if in agony. The worth three doblas to St Penebanca of the
gale'blowing from the North East drove her Wood, if we are saved," screamed another,
along, and. tolled huge waves afterlber, like through the stor v. "Hear, hear our prayers
a cat playing with a mouse.            St Maria of the broken heart! St Pedro, St
Suddenly the ship was thrown on her Ignatio, St JIago of the fiery-sword, St George,
beam ends.                             St Paul and St Peter of RomeI, hear us, je
"Reef the topsail!" commanded Misardo, saints, and save us! Mother of God, and l.
sternly. No sailor ventured on the danger. dy' of sorrows hush the storm! spread thy
aus duty, but all, instead, prayed to the mantle over this ship, as thou didst over the
saints,                                pregnant woman of Galicia I Lend us thy
"Reef the topsail, ye wretched cowards!" vail, with which thou didst save the drown.
saine'ried the voice of the little captain.  ing beggar of Sicily I Holy Rosamond 6
At that moment a report like that of a Palermo assist us!" The priest uttered this
cannon resounded, and the sail, torn off by prayer in a loud voice full of anxiety, that
the gale,'flew rapidly along the sky, and was was heard in every part of the ship, rising
lost to sig:.t. The ship, relieved of the and falling between the roar ofthe storm
strain,'righted and was immediately washed and the watery crash of the vessel.
by'a pressure of billows that had bounded  Miguel, however, had witnessed all this,
atier her. - Rosa, powerless and unresisting, stupid and careless. But now he recovered
was borne along by the waves until she his self possession. He had held to a rope
track against father Modestus, who was by instinct, and still hung there, when his
holding to a rope, and, with a voice loud and mind returned to the surrounding state of
anxious, calling upon the Holy Mother of things. ' He approached the sailors and erieil
God.                  .       . "Do you not see that the ship is burning
"Poor child," he cried, when he recogni- Do -you *ish to roast? Up laggards ad
sed Rosa, and with an effort held her until take hold of this sail."
the waters had parsed. All wet, he then  He immediately set an example by drag'
dragged her to the cabin, and delivered her ging a wet sail that hung to the fragments
so the car of Maria, whom he liberated from the mast to the burning stump.
the bd chamber.                         "Help me, will you?"  he cried.
The stbrm still increased. Mighty bursts  None moved.
of thunder shook the clouds, and blue light.,  Miguel lifted a large-piece of spar, saying:

L

;'

i

On, PLOTS AND
"Help me extinguish this, or I will dash
out the brains of the first who refuses."
The sailors rose, and reluctantly dragged
the wet sail over the fire, which, with some
difficulty, was extinguished.
All at once a voice from the hold shouted
in tones of death-like terror:    . I
"A leak, a leak!i she has sprung a leak."
CH APTER XXXV.
THE wRnCK.
"The ship has sprung a leak!" Through
the howling winds and the roaring sea, loud
and clear like a sentence of death, rang the
announcement- Deatg was everywhere ! in
the storm and the waves, in the lightning's
flash and the thunder's voice, above and be-
neath, death scowled and grinned at the few
human beings that crouched, helplessly, here
and there, upon the-rapidly filling vessel.
That cry was heard by Rosa and Maria,
rung in the ears of Miguel and Misardo, and
shot line a bolt of terror into the hearts of I
all on board of the St Pedro di Alvendi.-
The violence of the storm had decreased,
somewhat, and the winds had paused, as it4
were, to look upon the wrestling of the ship I
, with its fate. Alas the struggle would soon
be over, since, creeping waters already gush-
ed into the ship's heart through the wound
in her side.
- Rosa rushed out, and joined the group t
.upon deck, who, as a last recourse prayed to I
Him who rules the winds and waves.
" Help us, help us, Great GodI" cried the
priest, his demeanor, actions and language
being elevated by the greatness of the emer i
geney, " help us, father of the sea and the p
wind! Help us, for the sake of the women a
and children whose husbands and fathers a
are here!,Help us for the sake of our sinful
souls, that we might repent ! Command thy v
angels to sheath the lightning, and to hush v
the storm. Command the waves to bear us s
up! Help, help thou our saviour, our only u
friend.- The waters roar around us, they b
swallow us, help!"  The voice of the priest s
gradually rising, sounded like a trumpet, up e
o the -storm. He, all, were praying 'with
passion, with frenzy, were struggling in their t
prayer for life, for existence.         5

COUNTERPLOTS.
Misardo had been absent,,but now he
came from the cabin, loaded with small bags
of gold, which, stuffed into the lining of his '
clothes, swelled him up very much.. Indeed,
he was so loaded that.he ceuld but m~ive
with the greatest difficulty. : For, loath to
leave any of his treasure, he had endeavor-
ed to stow away a fortune in the lining of
his dress. Some very valuable jewels were
fastened to the inside of his shirt uponthe
bosom. Taking little heed of those engaged
in prayers, who were still upon their knees,
he shouted: "Make ready the boats! "
A wave washed the ship at the same mo-
ment, and, sweeping along those sailors, that
had not secured themselves by, grasping
ropes, spars, or like supporters, dast them
against the bulkheads. Some were bruised,
while others remained uninjured. Among
the latter was Rosa, among the former. Mi.
guel and the priest, who had all been wept
along by the violence of the wave. Migu
had an arm broken, the priest a flesh wound
on the side of the head.
In spite, however, of the storm and the
continual rise and fall of the billows, the
boats were ready in a little time. Not too
soon; for already the ship fell.heavy and
solidly upon the waters, and sank almost be-
neath them at each motion. Misardo, well
acquainted with the strength of the repec-
ive boats, sprang into the smallest one, fol--
owed by his brother.
"Shove off, Modestus," cried the captain,
'or too many will enter."
"No, brother; there is Don Miguel bring-
ng the lady, she shall go with us." The
priest had, through all these trying evens,
ssumed and retained an irresistible air of
uthority. Miguel, with Rosa and Maria,
and the boatswain Joseppo entered the boat,
which then,nearly 'full, was shoved from the
essel, In the upper and lower parts of'the
mall boat were receptacles for tackle, host
tensile and so on. These being impenetra-
le to the water, would keep the.siallves-
Al afloat in spite of the waves that threatean-
d every moment to sink it,
The sailors had rapidly filled' the other
wo boats, and it must be confessed, nottW
oon, for already was the ship settling


194                       THE FATAL S         acOUXT,
dbwa. Every one was now intent upon get the. waves, on either side against the mad
tCog away from the vessel, that thevortex it bursts of the wind.
Wuld occasion in sinking, might not draw  Rosa and Maria lay in the bottom of the
tbemdown.                              boat shivering and drawing closer around
"'Row, row," cried Misardo, "or we are them their wet garments. Terror, cold and
-lost I Every nerve was strained, every wetness, had benumbed the mind of the fe-
muscle bent, and the boat flew over the back males, and they could not realise their terri-
of. a large billow that was just heaving up, ble situation, and the frightful fate that
and in afew moments, was out of danger.  threatened them. Miguel and Joseppo were
'The ship now swayed to and fro, heavily, using the oars, but the former did so almost
drowsily, as it were, and then sank slowly unconsciously, for great as the storm was
beneath the waters, that rushed down into without, it was still greater in his heart.-
the black abyss which had swallowed the St Every lightning soared his bosom, and every
Pedro. di Alvendi. No trace remained but thunder found an echo in his heart. For he
a few broken spars, floating and tossing, here was a sinner in thepresence of manifesta-
ad there upon the waves.              tions of the power of God , the sinner face
Misardo groaned; but soon his attention to face with his judge. Did not the light.
was called from reflections upon the loss of nings speak of God's power, and the thunder
thetship, to the immediate danger that still of His anger ? Did not the storni proclaim
encompassed them.                       His might and the sea His glory?
The storm, which had again arisen, in vi-  Miguel was now the sirner in fear of pun-
olened and power, quickly separated the ishment, and conscience arose, giant-like, in
three, boats; we shall leave two of them, his bosom. But repentance, however it lash-
driving about on the hissing sea, and follow ed his soul, could not pluck to pieces that
the fate of the smaller one, in which Rosa, wild passion, with which he loved Rosa.-
Maria, Miguel, Modestus, Misardo and Josep- Not all the waters of the ocean, nor all the
'po had taken refuge.                   tears of repentance, could extinguish that
i' It was vain to row, for no headway could wild, and constant flame. .
be made against the waves that every mo   Misardo steered well, and by his skill it
kient lifted the boat upon their faaming was, that the boat escaped destruction.-
erests, and again lowered it into black gulfs, While Mocestus, who had again relapsed
*liere the waters of dissolving billows over- into every day thoughts and actions, repeat*
swept it. A hard and pelting shower fellin ed Ave Maria's and Pater Nosters, in the
every direction, and seemed the dust which hasty mumbling voice of priest, his brother
the billows raised in clouds, by their wild vi was exhibiting an exquisite power of obser-
len-ce. Thunders roared, with prolonged vation and calculation, as he guided the boat.
reverberating sound, and .lightnings, blue For, truly it was no joking matter, but a
and livid, shot again and again, broad and thing to turn a man's hair gray in onenight.
fty, over the surface of the tossing deep.- To Misardo it was doubly serious. For, he
'Again the howl of, the storm grew mightier, yearned to be saved, first for his own sake
and stranger gleamed the phosphorescent and then for the sake of his gold.
lights in the air and on the sea.         They drifted about till morning. In the
" It is impossible the boat should float last hours of night the storm had relaxed,
'tong in such a sea," said Misardo. " Take and, when the sun rose, nothing remeied
the oars and I will steer."  He took a small of it, but occasional wild gusts of air. The
redderiand with a skill, almost miraculous, first beams of thergreat luminary fell upon
guided the boat, alonz in the course, of the the wildly tossing and dark sea, like the
black watery rifts between the large waves. golden love of woman upon the rough-heart
'Atrthdre,.ramidst the general confusionand of ian. The violence of the storm had left
viblence was comparatively still 'and silent deep and dark traces here and there, as pas-
,water, since it-was protected by the body- of sion leaves traces-upon the human soul, and

I

L

OR, PLOTS A       oD COUNTERPLOTS.
the sea was ,still throbbing and rolling with els die of hunger," murmured the priest,
theinemory of last night's wildness, as some tightly folding his hand across hisabdomeit.
wild and daring deed, leaves the soul trout  We cannot but observe here that na'
bled and trembling. Long rays of light ture hal placed in Modestus' body a good
crept between the billows, and formed gold- and noble heart at the side of a greedy,
'en crusts upon the snowy foam, while from gluttonous stomach.
the commotion of the waves, in quick, chan.  "It is nothing," opined Misardo. "We
ging variety, every color beamed and flashed shall be picked up before noon."
from a thousand watery points. The sky   All consoled themselves with this hope.
so fresh and blue looked in serious astonish Oh it would have been dreadful to be driven
ment upon the tossing sea, and the rosy East about on the sea, in an open boat without
vainly tried to reflect its last scarlet flash in food or drink, had it not been for the conso-
the darkened mirror.                  lation of this hope, " a vessel will soon pick
- In the hurry and trouble of shipwreck, no us up."
one had thought of placing food and drink  The sun mounted the skies and stood in
in the boat. Misardo had been too much t'e blue zenith, yet no vessel was seen. The
occupied with his gold, and Miguel too much afternoon passed and the day died, and seem-
engaged in saving Rosa, that either of them ed laid out in the west, like a dead King in
should have placed provisions in the boat.- his robes of state-yet no vessel appeared.
The others thought not of it. However,they Clear and unbroken was the horizon, ad not
were in the Meuiterranean, and it was prob a mast head, not the white gleam of a sail
able that they should very soon fall in with could be discerned by the anxious glances of
.a ship. ,The want of provisions was, there- the occupants of the little boat. Neither
fore, of not much importance.          could they see any thing of the other .two
The one who suffered most from this for- boat, on which the crew of the St Pedro
getfulness was Modestus. For none of the di Alvendi had taken refuge.
others thought of eating; every thought and  The nightset in, and the moon, broad and
feeling was wrapped up in reflection on their golden, rose in the b!ue and melancholy
precarious and melancholy condition. But sky. It glittered not, but seemed to rock to
Modestus could never overlook the claims of and fro in innocence and beauty, like the
an -empty stomach, whether that stomach cradle of an angel. And the sky, that vast
was his own, or another's. It was he who, and glorious robe of a mysterious beyond,
therefore, first ascertained the absence of' which in its grand, indefinite and indescri-
food. This was, indeed, terrible for the bable beauty seems the type of that happy
good father. His conscience and his atom- region, which the believing imagine itveils;
ach pinched him at once, and lie could now the sky was here and there veined with
look,.with much more severity upon his con cloudlets of the purest,' whites' silver.--
duct, in accompanying Miguel, and promis. Later in the evening the stars opened their
ing for one hundred doblas to unite him petals and burst forth, strange an I mag-
and Rosa. For, now lie felt the punishment nificent. Sea, sea, onthy surface slept the
of heaven, in an unsatisfied stomach.  bright reflection of these bright things.-
if, we had only fish, and means to cook And on thy surface slept, in the calm silence
and prepare them. I would be satisfied of the winds, the image of a rough dark boat,
.with the most meagre diet of Lent. Oh, ho- over the side of, which a fair lady bent, sand
ly Queen of Heaven! look down on thy wept hot tears into thy watery bosom.,
servant "                                Miguel's features were haggard; Rosa's
"It is true we have no food ; but we can face very pale. The dreadful events of the
'endure it easily until picked up," said Mi- past night, and the fast of the day, depress-
guel. "Rosa, you feel no hunger ?"     ed all spirits and few words had been spok-
-''he lady merely shook her head.     en since noon.
"Oh Mlisardo, it is thy fault, that my bow-  But when the sun had set, Modestus rose


126                        TE   . FATAL   SERE T,
iv the silent -boat and lifting- up his dirty pillowed, continued to look steadily at the
handsprayed. And alljoined him, for in all waters that for ever swept past them. - Wild
was alive the terrible awe of God.     curses were uttered by Miguel whenever a
" This breaks my heart," whispered Mi- pang shot through his injured arm, and he
guel to Roa.                          was continually seeking for quarrels with
"And is it not your own fault that I, that the others in the boat. Then nothing could
you are here ? I scarce dare hope yet. We master hin except a look or word of Rosa's.
will all perish of hunger, -or by the waves To her he was very docile. The boatswain
This is your work, Miguel di- Sousa!I, God bore all, with the hardy indifference of a
Will call you to account for it. I forgive sailor; but Mihardo passed most of his time
you."                                  in praying, and vowing candles. He was
"Mr work? God call me to account? in an irritable state of mind, almost border.
Was it my storm that lashed the sea? Was ing on distraction. Modestus had sunk into
it my lightning that blasted the vessel ? Was a kind of dead stupor and replied not, when
it my providence that sunk her? God ! God, addressed. All six had that haggard and
who has no mercy on men, who thinks not spiritual look, which hunger imparts to the
of their passions and weaknesses."     countenance. Their eyes were large and
"Infidel," cried the priest, "do you talk brilliant, their hair wild and disordered.-
thus of God? la, his servants the Inquisi From their dry lips came words almost with.
tors will teach you I"                 out sound.
"That is it. His servants, the Inquisitors.  They endeavored to approach one of the
Like servants like master. His actions and large islands of the Mediterranean. But it
his prov dence are as regardless of weak- seemed that the storm had carried the ship
ness, temptation and imperfect men, as the so far back, that it would have been better
Inquisitors act and punish regardless of they had steered towards the Eastern coast
mitigatory circumstances. He created man- of Spain.
kind, why does he call them to account for  The sun scattered gems through the mist,
imperfection they could not obviate. Oh, I and slowly, like the incense of a censer,
tell ye priest, I have been in England, and rose the gray vapors from the sea. Sky.
here I express my doubts to you, the doubts water and air were a realm of fresh gold,
Which I learned to feel in England. Here I and glorious colors.
can express them, for the sea has no Inquisi-  During this, the second day since their
tors."                                 shipwreck, the effects of hunger, and of the
"You are the Jonah that sunk the vessel," burning rays to which they were exposed
cried the priest, with horror.         from the sun, and from that great reflector,
"Case your talk!'' said Mipardo. "These the sea, began to show themselves. The
thingsare not to be discussed, when one's life minds of Miguel and Misardo wandered.-
depends on the soundness of an old boat. On They spoke of scenes and timis far distant,
land, when comfortably seated in your pa- and conjured up many strange and wild
lace, you may deny God. But, for your own im.ages.
asks, dont do so, when every wave around  This attracted the attention of the others,
is like a hand drawing us to death. Cease, and, for a time, seemed to make them forget
therefore."                            their misery, and present condition. But
The stars paled. The moon had long dis. soon it grew troublesome, for in their dreams
appeared and the gray mists of morning they became violent Misardo imagined he
gathered over the surface of the water. ' The saw a man, who, he said, intended to rob
air was very cold,and pierced like ice through him.
the thin garments of She shipwrecked. Ro- "Away with you," he cried. "I have no
sa lay in the bottom of the boat scarcely gold, not a particle of gold. I am poor, I
giving any sign of life,,except an occasional swear it upon the cross, I am poor I Away,
n'oan. Maria on whose lap Rosa's head was I say, you shall not have it. It is hard esrn.

OR, PLoTs AND CoUNTERPLOT.S.     127

ed; , I love it. Come to my bosom for your
mound is food to me. -.Oh bright, bright gold,
thou art food and drink. Wretches, why do
you starve me?  Would you kill a poor old
man? Ah you will never inherit me. My
gold goes with me. Up, up, into the sky,
and there I'll hang it upon the sun, and then
every one will say, 'the gold shines brightest.'
Yes, yes, men could do without the sun, but
not without gold. Dear gold, thou art my
wife and child. PshawI what want I with
*ife and child ? They eat a man up. They
devour his substance. They inherit him.
Gold, that shines so brightI Oh it is a trust
ful friendI No relative so true and good as
gold I No friend so faithful. Mine, mineI
Never shalt thou take it, murmuring sea.-
Thou haet gold enough and gems too, I trow,
in that ugly maw of thins I Help me downI
I go to the bottom, and gather all the pearls,
and gems, and the gold and mother of pearl."
" Mother of pearl, say you," cr'ed Miguel,
starting up, "she was not of pearl. She was
of. white, fair flesh, with eyes like shining
stars.
"Shining stars, silver stars," broke in Mi-
sardo, "tear them out and coin them "
"Wretch, I never coined them. You lie,
if you say so. She was a beautiful mother
and walked with me among the flowers, and
under the grand old trees. She kissed me
and told me long stories, of angels and fair.
ies, and oh, she showed me the rising sun,
that was not this sun,-" and he pointed
to the glowing luminary-" but another, and
told me God had made it. Oh, I loved her,
and prayed morn, and night to God-Oh
what nonsense! Yes, my lord, the Grecian
and Roman philosophers, illustrate beyond a
doubt that this being, which the ignorant
call God, exists not. A vague superstition,
a belief, that time will wash away from the
minds of men. Nations progress only by
steps, my lord. I perfectly agree with you.
Now, England's King-the King, the King!
make way, gentlemen! Has your majesty
considered?  The settlement and colonies
of Portugal in Asia and Africa increase;
and we draw from thence gold and gems-"
" Gold and gems! Let me have them.-
Show them to me," cried Misardo. "Will

you ? Show them, or I will murder you.
Show me where they dre, for I am very poor.
I want gold," and he arose and threw his
arms in the air, with wild, bloodshot eyes
resting on Miguel.
"t Wouldyou take gold from the churchI
Would you melt down crosses and images!"
cried father Modestus, whom this delirium
also seized in turn. "Ah, sicrileger, will
not the Inquisition seize you ? Will they
not make you disgorge all your gold ? Yes,
disgorge ! because you had not enough gar-
lie to season it. Garlic and gold go togeth-
er ! Ah, St. Peter di Alvendi, give me the
stomach of a Jew!" finished the priest, fold-
ing his arms.
"'The purse of a JewI " cried Misardo.
"The stomach ! Garlic I want, not gold!
Garlic !"
Joseppo rose and, straining his eyes to
the utmost, looked steadily in an eastern di-
rection for some moments, and then cried,
with a voice of inexpressible joy:
"A SHIP! A SH IP!"
CHAPTER XXXVI.
GOD I    NEAR THE HELPLESS.
A ship is driving through the foaming waves
on her way to the straits of Gibraltar, and
to Portugal. She is a large, bulky vessel,
and rolls about from side to side like a fat
burgomaster. Her breadth of beam, heavi-
ness of spars, and indeed her entire lcok
denote that she was built in Holland. There
is such an exquisite air of heaviness and
substance, of strong fat sense and guilders
about Dutch built vessels and men, that the
merest dolt could not inistake either of them.
We have said that the vessel in question
was Dutch; and this is saying much in her
praise, for at that time Holland was one of
the very first maritime nations.
Let us take the reader on board. Well
protected by an awning, that overshadowed
the greater part of the cleanly quarter deek,
and resting on small carpets, spread upon
the deck, we meet four gentlemen. In one
of them we recognise Sporaso, the captain
of the vessel, in the other two Hernando and
Enrique, and the small fat man, with the
good natured green goggle eyes who always


128                      'H EFA TA
polishes his nails with such industry, is a
Jewish physician, a cousin of the captain.-
The name of the lattetr is Moses ben Moses.
"Perm'it me to observe," said the captain,
"that in Holland, the merchant, and the
artizan are becoming of greater importance
every day. There is also a splendid, a vali-
ant and wealthy nobility, yet each day weak
ens its power And importance. It will at
last disappear from the face of the land."
"I cannot conceive such a state of things,"
cried Hernando, "A state without nobility
can not but fall. Who will defend it against
the enemy without, and check the power of
the monarch within ? Who will protectthe
nation, enforce the execution of its laws and
protect the fine arts?  Would Rome have
become Rome without Patricians, to lead in
battle, protect in' peace and patronise the
arts.? Would Greece have become the land
of refinement, of poetry and beauty, wit'ont
noble patronage to foster the flowery enlight
enment of the age ? Take away tne nobility
and you have a barbarian people left."
"You are warm in your arguments, senor,"
gravely replied the captain. "That the no-
bility was great, and perhaps good in some
states of society I will allow. Yet in the
present advanced age who will acknowledge
the claims founded merely on blood,or descent
foiom a great and virtuous ancestor ? In our
Holland, we show the solid strength of a na
tion, in which the nobility is a nonentity, in
which King and nation are the only estates
acknowledged. And do not our burghers
produce greater men in every department,
then can be made of the weak saplings of an
old family?  Were not the great men of
science and action, the great navigators anl
astronomers, the great heroes of ancient and
modern times, all of the people? "
"Hold, there, senor capitano, "said Her,
nando, "the great men of ancient and mod-
ern times, say you ? Let us see. Was not
the Roman Brutus a patrician?  And the
Roman heroes and poets all w ere of noble
houses. -Do we not see in ancient history,
whether, of Greece, Rcme, Carthage, Syria
orPersia, that when ever the rights of peo-
ple were assailed, the people defendedthem
ol when stirred up to it by noblest.defen
de'them under the lead of the nobility."

At. SECRET,
"The nobility always defended - its own
rights and privileges under the pretense of
defending the people's rights. On the con'.
trary, whatever oppresses the nation must
increase their power, and in whatever
country the nobility is rich and great, the
people will be found weak and poor. But
when the nobles are powerless, then com-
merce,-trade, and agriculture bloom, and
yield their rewards to the man of the
people who works to gain them," said the
captain.
"See how crooked the notions of this
good captain are," said Hernando. "He is
a traveler, has been in England where I
have never been, knows, therefore, better
than any the prosperity of that nation, with
its hereditary, wealthy nobles, and yet as-
serts all he has said. Is this not ridiculous?
He knows further history, and is well ac;
qiainted with the fact, that the liberties of
England, greater than those of any other
land, the seeds of the greatest and purest
freedom that can ever exist, were wrested
in the fagna Charta from a tyrannical
king, by whom? By Nobles, by Barons and
Earls. Further, look upon the knights of
the romantic ages the knight errants, and
crusaders, and then can you maintain, that
they were not the cultivators of poetry hnd
the patrons of art, the redressors of wrongs
and guardians of justice, the benefactor of
an ungrateful people? They were the men
who freely dedicated their lives and posses-
sions to a high and great idea, the men of
holy enthusiasm, graad soul and, grand de.
velopment of physical power."
" But let us discuss the principle of the
thing,' said the captain, who unexpectedly
found himself getting worsted in this argu-
ment. "Let us see whether-it is right' and
just that, because a father has been wise or
brave, and, therefore, deserved nobility and
honors, his descendants' should enjoy the
same for all times, however depraved and
useless they are."
" I think it to be right, and just senor,"
replied Hernando. "Look you; do not you,
and does not every law on earth concede that
it isjust, the possessions of the father should
descend to his children ?  What greater

On, PLOTS       AND
possession can a father transmit to his
children than a clear unspotted name ? If
he has gained honors and titles which are
thqrewards of worth, 'are they not the
better part of his children's heritage ?- If
the state, for due services has conceded a
privilege to the father, is it not just that his
children should inherit it, as that they
should inherit the money which a private
citizen might have paid him, for certain
services ? You may as well maintain that
the child has no right to the father's naine,
as that hereditary nobility is unjust. Even
our divine law, the scripture inspired by
God, sanctions this principle. And ' the
merits of the father shall be remembered
to the last generation,' is repeatedly men-
tioned. What is hereditary nobility but a
commemoration of the ancestor's merits
and virtues in his descendants ?  Then, in
our history, the history of Israel, do we
not find that God established the house of
Dgvid to be a perpetual royal race ? And
everything that is said in defense of heredi.
tary monarchy, defends at the same time
hereditary nobility."
"But did nature create men, to ba differ-
ently privileged and endowed with different
rights,or to enjoy an equal justice andright?"
asked the captain, scornfully.
"What a question," cried Hernando,
"Did not Nature herself endow man with
widely different capacities ? Nature can not
but create the perfect and the imperfect.-,
For the substance to create both is within
her, and therefore it is a necessity that both
should exist. Therefore men, more or less
perfect in mind, soul, or body, men that differ
as greatly in their physical, mental and mo-
ral capacities, as the mountain differs from
the valley, and the sheaf from the thistle, live
and move. in this world. Has not nature
then , invested with greater privilege one
man in the physical, mental or moral advan-
tage he has over an other ? Seems there not
to be a nobility among animals, plants, and
even stones?  Ah, do not say nature made
mnan equal, for equality is a principle that
can not exist in a well ordered state of
things. All can not be heads, all can not
17

Co UN'TER PLo'I0s.                129
.be feet. Each has an appointed sphere, and
equality is an empty ideal."
" Then you do not even concede that equal
justice should be meted out?" inquired the
astonishedcaptain. .
" Equal justice? What call you equal
justice. Fitting one and the same straight
garment upon men of different sizes and
proportions? Should justicebe justicephere
must be different laws governing each indi-
vidual case. Justice is not just, unless she
considers the minutest shades of feeling
which actuate man. , Human justice can not
do that. But divine justice will. And ma-
ny arogue that has been hung here accord-
ing to the most just laws, will be received
into Paradise by God. For God's justice
must be just, just to men in their weakness,
and in their different mental, moral and
physical capacities. Thus justice to be just,
can not be equal."
The conversation ceased there. For some
moments, silence reigned on the quarter
deck, until a sailor disturbed the company
by the announcement, that a boat was in
sight, and the people in her were making
signs.
Their lazy languor was thrown off in amo-
ment, and all hastened to the forecastle to
make out the boat. Those who have crossed
the sea, know the languid stupor which to
the casual passenger represents life on ship
board. They know how incidents of the ve-
ry slightest importance and interest, are ac-
cepted and grasped at,as subjects for though
during the long, weary hours. And so here.
Each one strained his eyes to see the small
dark speck upon the water, which seemed
gradually approaching them.
" Beyond doubt, it is a boat," said, the
captain after a long look.
" Can you not make out what is in.her?"
inquired Hernando.
"Not yet. See, they are throwing out
something white. Can you not see it wave?"
" Yes, I see something white in, motion."
"What can it mean ? A singleboat thus
alone on the sea! Captain, what are your
conjectures about her?"  inquired Enrique.
"I suppose the boat contains the survi


,iit

130                      Tun    FATAL     SEcaRET,
vors of some shipwreck. The storms are take her to,'the cabin, and leave her in my
often troublesome in this part of the year." care.'"
"Poor people," cried Enrique, "we must  Enrique's face assumed an expression of
quickly saccor them."                  tender, childish apprehension, and he quiet.
As soon as we can appromah them. They ly bore Rosa, as if she were a fragile thing
lie somewhat to the North of our course but of summer cloud, into the cabin.
1 will send a boat to pick them up."     Hammocks had been hastily strung up,
This the generous captain did, whep the and the rescued were placed in them, under
distance between the ship and the boat was the care of Moses ben Moses, the physician.
lessened to a mile.                      Father Modestus, Misardo, Miguel, in all
'The boat's crew removed the weak and of whom the mad delirium had subsided in'
almost helpless shipwrecked to their own to a tremulous muttering, were properly
boat,'and then, diving their glittering oars cared for immediately. The only ones who
in the blue surface of the sea, and raising still retained their conciousness and some of
them again dripping and bright, drove their their strength were Maria Flunos and Jo-.
small vessel, over the azure waters, as the seppo. Those two declared they wanted'
gull skims along the gleaming surface of the nothing but a hearty meal to be quite well.
waves.                                 But this the physician prohibited. He al-
Ah, the Mediterranean is a splendid sea, lowed only a small quantity of food, which
but at the hour of noon it seems, as it were, they swallowed. with avidity.  Then the
a vast sheet of red hot copper  So intense cabin being so crowded, rough hammocks
is the reflection of the burning light and were slung upon the quarter deck, and those
heat upon the water.                   two commanded to rest, in spite of all Maria's
The boat was at the side of the ship, and and Joseppo's entreaties to be allowed to at-
the rescued ones were brought upon deck.  tend upon the others.
"Take them, to the cabin," commanded   Enrique walked anxiously up and down
the captain, "and do you, Moses ben Moses before the cabin.
attend to them."                        "I can not imagine," he cried, "what cir-
"I will, my captain. But some are in ve- cumstances have brought Rosa, a shipwreck-
ry poor condition. Lo, here they-bring two ed sufferer upon the MediterraneanI Not a
women. Poor creatures! "               single link can I grasp, to found a plausible
All turned to look upon the two women, pretext on, for her being here! Astonishing,
and both the brothers uttered a cry of hor- frightful! so frail and delicate, she must
ror and surprise. Both Hernando and En- have suffered immenselyI God be thanked
rique had recognised Rosa, and both bound- that I was hereI "
ed forward to embrace her. But Rosa had When the physician came from the cabin,
heard Enrique's voice, and quickly releasing Enrique interrogated him concerning the
herself from the sailor who bore her, fell state of Rosa, and was rejoiced to hear that
upon Enrique's neck, in a paroxysm of joy, she needed but quiet, rest and food, to be
that bereft her of consciousness.      restored to health and strength. Then the
"Good God of Heaven, can this be real?" young man; quite stunned yet, and unable
exclaimed Enrique, pressing Rosa closer and to comprehend any thing but that Rosa was
closer to his bosom, until he saw her passive here, hastened to' the quarter deck, that he
form lay dead-like in his arms. "Moses ben might interrogate Maria, whom he under-
Moses, help, for God's sake, she is dying."  stood to be the chamber maid of Rosa.
' The physician approached and touched  "It was this way, senor," replied Maria.
the-maiden's wrist. "As I was one day doing a little errand for
"It is exhaustion and surprise that has our mistress, a portly man met me and in-
brought on this fit of fainting," said he; "we quired: Are you the maiden of Donna Rosa
must prevent every exciting emotion in fu- Bananda?  I-am, was my reply to the fat
ture, until her strength can bear it. Senor, man. Then take this note to your mistress'

On, PLOTS      AND
and this coin to your pocket, and he gave
me a piece of silver and a small note tied
with silver thread."
"Was the man handsome?" inquired En-
rique.
"No, surely not, and therefore I could
not have suspected what was in it."
"What was in it? Well,will you speak?"
"It purported to be from Don Enrique da
Costa, and contained an entreaty to meet
him secretly, at the garden door. I gave the
note to my mistress who seemed to rejoice
greatly thereat. We waited till all in the
house were asleep, and then at the request
of my mistress I followed her into the gar-
den." Maria hadto stop. She was yet too
weak. Enrique walked the quarter deck,
bursting with impatience. Yet he could
not urge Maria beyond her powers. After
a short rest the chambermaid resumed :
"We had scarcely opened the garden,
door, when a man in a large cloak and hat
approached. My lady cried: Enrique! and
threw herself into his arms: Meanwhile
three or four fellows, villains, and this Jo-
seppo there the boldest-"
. " Dont, dont, my pretty mistress," said
Joseppo, who lay right opposite.
"And pray, why don't? Was it not a vil-
lany as black as your whiskers, you wicked
fellow? "
"1Go on, for heaven's sake," entreated En-
rique, "I am dying of impatience. You
were saying -"                      ,
"II was saying, that these fellows fell on
me, like mad dogs, and dragged me along to
a boat. Meanwhile, my lady, had discovered
that the man whom she embraced was not
Don Enrique, but her cousin Don Miguel.-
And as she raised a great cry at the decep-
tion, he fairly took her up and carried her
to the same boat, where they put me.
"They then rowed to a ship, calledSt Pedro
di Alvendi, and I understood, that the mean-
ing of this black villany, our abduction-was
that Don Miguel intended to force my lady
to marry him. They had a fat monster on
board of the ship too, a priest, who was to
perform the ceremony; he is a pious 'man,
that I doubt not, but a priest of the-church
should not lend his hand to such villanies.

C 0 U N T E R P L 0OT..S.           131
There was also a stingy serpent of a captain.
"The ship immediately started in spite of
my lady's entreaties to let her return. Oh,
I can not tell you then, of the terrible perse-
cutions of Don Miguel di Sousa. He tried
everything possible to cajole or force Douna
Rosa into an union with him; but all in
vain. At last he attacked her person."
"Dastard, Villain and Forger I God help
him if we meet."
" But with his own sword I drove him
back. Again he threw something over mhe
and locked me in a small cabin room. Then
came on the storm- Oh, thatnight of terror
I shall never forget. Heaven have mercy
on us ! -I thought the last day had come.-
We were wrecked, and driven about on the
sea for near three days, ere we met you."
"But where is that monster, who carried
off my sweet lady?" inquired Enrique. ,
"Yonder cabincontains him. Heescaped
in the same boat, and was saved with us."
Enrique briefly thanked Maria Flunos,
and then with hasty strides went to the cab-
in door and endeavored to enter. But here
he was met by Moses ben Moses.
"You can not see my patients now, and
especially the lady. She has much need of
rest, and her frame can not bear the least
excitement."
" Not her, but that large man with the
black hair and eyes," and he endeavored to
pass.
"I can not allow you-positively not," re-
peated the physician. " You cant postpone
your business with him, until he is well."
"How soon will he be recovered?"
"In a few days. Refrain from   seeing
any of these weak people until then; pray
do," and the physician locked the cabin door.
We turn to Hernando. What was it that
rose and burned in his bosom, and like the
volcano's eruption, threW floods of fire
through his veins and arteries?  What har-
mony, strong and deep vibrated through the
inmost.recesses of his being. Was it again
love ? It was. And love of Rosa? Assured-
ly. It had existed, although he imagined it
dead. It appeared, not as a ghost of former
affection, but as a living fire, bright and hot.
Ilernando loved Rosa, loved still, with the


132                       TU, F- FA T,
same ardor, the same hopes, the same desir
that had crazed his brain when he threi
Enrique from the tower.
But experience had come-since then. H
would not now endeavor to make away wit]
his'brother. He would not again harm En
rique, for he had once felt the thousan,
sharp knives of guilt enter his soul, had onc
swallowed the fire-filled cup of crime, an
the horrible recollection still stood a warn-
ing shadow in his bosom. But, and alas
thus is man, he felt, indefinitely, vaguely
but still strongly, that could he enjoy Rosa'i
love, upon the ruins of Enrique's life, could
he wed Rosa upon the grave of his brother
he might, he even now might-
"Down with you worm, serpent from Par
adise I1" cried the young man, stamping up
on the deck. "Down, and poison not my
soul by thy insinuations. I will never touch
his life ! Never decide by rude combat the
rivalry of our souls. Yet it is impossible he
can love her. He enjoys her embrace, her
kiss, the glorious consciousness of her love-
calmly, joyfully, but oh so calmly. While
I would feel heaven in her kiss, divine fire
in her embrace, and for one moment's con-
seiousnessof her love, would be content to
die the next. Oh, like a flame, my arms
should embrace her, my lips should inhale
her breath, my bosom should heave against
her own, like a sea of fire. Oh God I- alife
of ambition, hope and glory, for one embrace,
and esteem myself blest1!"
Then Hernando wrestled with himself and
endeavored to force down the great selfish
spirit that he had called up, endeavored to
combat with passions that he had strength-
ened and nurtured, and stimulated, and felt
an intense joy, though a guilty one, when
the passions conquered, when his better self
sank exhausted, and the inward wrestle was
ended with the victory of self, with the con-
quest of the human over the divine, the
earthly passions over the soul which is part
of God. He felt joy,satisfaction, and having
convinced himself that his love was trium-
phant,sagelyset about considering the means
to accomplish his purpose. That Rosa
would love him when she knew the fire, the
greatness and intensity of his affection, he

A L SEc RET,
e, had not a doubt. He thought his passion
w unconquerable because he had succumbed
to it. He imagined his affection invisible
e because he had given it the victory. The'
h only thing then was secretly to try and gain
- Rosa's heart. To blacken Enrique in her
d eyes. To play a double part, and be a hypo.
e crite. Secretly, all this must be done. But
d Enrique's life should be sacred, while his
- happiness was destroyed. Now sometimes,
, the dark wish fluttered over his mind, that
Enrique might have died at Salonga.
s   At once, the high tempered youth stopped
d in his reflections, and turning back beheld
,the ruin and desolation, which the thoughts
and passion, that had swept over his inner
- man, left behind. Beheld every high feel-
- ing and lofty emotion dead, extinguished,
and his whole soul usurped by the fiery and
wild flashes of his love for Rosa. Beheld
every duty, honor, honesty and brotherly
love paling and evaporating, because treach-
ery and deceit could serve his love better.
" A b," he murmured, "what will I be driv-
en to! A murderer I had almost become; a,
traitor and hypocrite to my brother, who is
- so great, gentle and noble, I am about to be-
come. What further yet? Ah, all thi is
but slight sacrifice. I would burn my heart
with every bright thought, and all of noble.
ness and divine spirit, which I have yet left,
could I mount in their smoke to thy love,
Rosa !"
" Hernando, my brother," said Enrique
approaching, "why do you walk alone mut-
tering as if King Saul's evil spirit were in
your soul. Rejoice with me, my brother,
for I am very happy."
"That thy love is on board of this ship ?"
" Were I in the mood, I should have cause
for anger too."
"What cause, my brother?"
'The vile wretch who abducted my bride,
forcibly from her mother's house, is also on
board." -  ,
" What! one of the miserablamen, picked
up with Rosa ?"
"Yes; the one with black hair and eyes!"
"And he abducted Rosa? With what
intention ? For what purpose"
" To force the lady to yed him," cried

OR, PLOTs AND COUN            ERPLbTS.                  133
Enrique, with flashing eyes and reddened grounds ?" inquired the captain of the royal
cheeks. "The miserable, dastardly wretch." guards.
-"Wed him ? -By the everlasting God, I  " I believe it is a certain  Don Lionel
will kill that man! Had he such presump- Dian, to whom these lands belong," replied
tlon, and dared to execute such a cowardly, the spy.
mean and treacherous act?"               " Antonio, you and Anosto will climb
"1He pleads his love for Rosa ! Brother, those t-ees, and ascertain how many gip-
harm him not, for he is a thing that can not sies there are, and whether they arc awake."
harm us anymore. I have tried to caln my  The two men reported that all was yet quit
rage and partly succeeded; do you also at- et. They estimated the number of gipsies
tempt it."                             at about sixty, reckoning according to the
But Hernando recognised a character, a tents. The captain of the guard then, being
villain in Miguel, which he was about to as- informed by the spies that Massor wig in a
sume, urged by the same causes and the small cave near the summit of the hill, led
some feelings, that had led Miguel to the ab- his men aside, and skirting the encampment
duction. Nay, he acknowledged to himself posted them between the rear of the gipsy
that this abduction was a capital plan, he camp and the place where he supposed Mas-
himself should like to execute.        sor to be.
Dividing his soldiers into two divisions,he
CHAPTER        XXXVII.           left one part to guard the camp, and with the
T H E N I G H T A T T A c K . other approached the cave, from whence the
WE left Massor, the gipsy asleep qthe feeble light of a few coals still shone. They
small cave. The spies were hastening to met no opposition in surrounding the en-
Lisbon.  It was past the middle of the trance.
night when they arrived. The King had    Within the cave all was dark and silent.
commanded to be immediately notified of A light being struck at the captain's order,
their arrival. No time was, therefore, lost, he with some of the trustiest soldiers, enter.
in communicating  the news which they ed, to find the gipsy. On his bed.of leaves,
brought, to the King.                   overhung by a projecting angle of rock, slept
"This gipsy chief must be captured," Massor, heavily. Scarcely had they per-
said Juan. "I leave the matter in your ceived him when the light flashing upon, and
hands, captain," and he turned to the com- irritating his eyelids awoke him. In sur-
mander of the royal guard. "See, senor, prise he started up.
that to morrow morning you bring him a    "Who are ye, and what do you here?" he
prisoner to the palace. Whatever furniture, inquired haughtily, of the intruders.
or papers, or boxes are found around him,  "We are the royal body guard," replied
must be taken care of and brought along. the captain, "and come here to arrest you
If you find any thing in the gipsy camp, in the King's name. Yield willingly, gipsy,
different from the articles they have in or it may fare ill with you."
common use, examine it for some papers, "Ah, I understand," cried Massor; "sent
or a casket of steel, which this fellow must by King Juan. But you will not capture
have somewhere. Take a whole detachment me. You will be disappointed, my valiant
of the guard, to make sure of him."    senors, and will only earn the King's die..;
The captain' bowed, and in a few minutes pleasure by this expedition."
was trotting from Lisbon at the head of a  " Be not too sanguine, my gipsy. The
detachment of the royal guards. It was entrance of this cave is filled with my sol-
almost morning when they reached the diers. The gipsies below can not aid youif
gipsy encampment.                      they would, for they are surrounded by an.
"What nobleman or township, has al. other division of my men. How, then, do
lowed these vagabonds to settle on their you expect to escape from our hands, unless
you fly through the solid rock ?"


134

TE FATAL-SECRET,

"Ah! soldiers, you know not the power soldiers at the mouth of the cave. They all,
which we gipsies inherited from our ances- stood firm, and received him at the point,
tors. How will I escape ? By walking of. their swords, while those behind ar-
through your midst, and none of ye shall ranged their fire arms, a discharge 'from
touch me."                             which would sweep the cave at every point.
With this, Massor drew a ring, from his Massor had noticed every point of this posi.
pocket, and caused it to flash in the torch- tion  in a moment, and  slipping back,
)ight, before the captain's eyes.       whistled loud and long.
"Dare now to touch me ! Dare to ap-    Sounds of surprise and rage were heard
preach ?" cried Massor, his voice loud and from below, quickly followed by the noise
menacing.                              of strife.  The gipsies had attacked the
The captain fell on his knees.       soldiers there. Meanwhile another torch.
'' Senor, still I must arrest you. It is the had been lighted, and brought into the cave.
King's express command."                 "Secure him," commanded the captain,
"Has your King power over me ? Am I approaching Massor, with five or six men.
not guardian of his soul? and therefore you They forced him to the extremity of the
will not capture me, because his soul will cavern, as, step by step, he retreated before
burn for each indignity put on me. Yea their advances. However, now he could not
back."                                 retreat any more. Behind was the rock..
"I care not," cried the captain. "I have Then suddenly he drew a large silver flask
sworn faith to the King; I must observe it. from his bosom, and, throwing the stopper
The King commands me to take you priso- away, began to pour bright burning flame
ner. I shall do so. Whatever is wrong in from its open orifice, upon the soldiers.
it, let it be 'tween the King and you."  They shrunk back in terror. From side to
"Again I command, you to let me pass side Massor swayed the flask, flame and fire
free. All must yield obedience to the power pouring out, and thus advanced, step by
vested in meI This power is second to no step, while, with cries of horror and fear,
other, to no command or order, though given the soldiers ran aside. At the entrance he
by the King."                          swept the whole line with a discharge of
"I can not do it senor," cried the captain, flame, and put them to an immediate flight.
agitated and pale. "Though I die for it.- The guard scrambled and ran down hill, half
The King has said, 'arrest him,' and arrest erased with terror, and blind from the fire.
him it must be. The King has'said, 'bring Here and there hair had been  singed,
him a prisoner to the palace tomorrow morn- whiskers burned, and eye brows destroyed,
ing,' and, so I will. You," turning to the but there was little serious injury. At the
others, "will bring all that may be found in mouth of the cave Mabsor turned once more
this cave to Lisbon; ransack the camp, for to pour a stream of scarlet flame upon the
certain papers, or a casket of steel, which prostrate captain of the guards, and then
must be concealed here. Senor," to Massor, disappeared ia the night.
" you will give me your dagger and follow."  The fact was, Massor had poured out
Instead of obeying, Massor stept forward, some chemical preparation, which, by con-
and tearing the torch from a soldier's hand, tact with the air, is ignited, and thus with
extinguished it.                       the help of science discomfitted his enemies
" Stand firm, and guard the entrance," and again disappointed KingJuan the Third.
roared the captain, while he and all in the  The guards found nothing of importance.
cave endeavored to secure Massor. Howev- But when the captain examined the floor
er, the gipsy eluded their grasp.      and walls of the cave, to see whether there
" Light another torch," cried the captain, could; be nothing concealed there, he hap.
"and carefully guard the entrance."    pened to meet a suspicious crevice near
Before this order could be obeyed, Mas- the floor, on the rear wall of the cave.
sor suddenly presented  himself to  the   Persevering in his search, he removed

I

I-

V ,   +

OR, PLOTS AND4
some pebbles and small stones that were
heaped about there, and unearthed the
precious steelen casket, in which the proofs
of the Prior di Castro's legitimacy were
contained.
When the guard returned to Lisbon, the
King heard with doubt and vexation their
story about Massor's power of belching
forth fire. However, the gipsy was only of
importance as the possessor of the casket,
and the King now held the very documents,
that had given him so much uneasiness, in
his hand. He hastened to deposit them in
the strongest and most secret closet he
knew - in the closet where the papal bulls,
the royal wills, marriage contracts and
papers of like importance were kept. Now
King Juan again was firm upon the throne
of his fathers.
And Massor! Do you see the man who
stands solitary in the pale gray of morning,
under the sleepy green trees at the slope of
the hill? It is Massor; alone with his
thoughts, he leans against the knotty and
warty trunk of a chestnut, the empty bottle
still grasped in his hand.
1 "This, then, is t'e end of my power over
King Juan, " he said. " I could not help it.
'T is vain for human wit and human power
to strive against Providence. Providence
has doomed this nation, has cursed it, and
it is, it will be unhappy, unfortunate.-
Again a scheme has failed. Again a plan
has been destroyed. Well, I have the Kings
word.- a shallow, empty promise truly, but
still a promise-that the Inquisition should
be suspended for two weeks. They must be
back by that time-then we will unmask
the institution, we will tear away its veil of
holiness? Will they retain it? Will Juan,
will Portugal remain blind in spite of the
sun ? No, it can not be; sense, reason can
not allow it. Then we will triumph! Peace
will dwell again with us. Oh, scarce have
I seen the frailty of one attempt, when
hope suggests another. On then in the grand
raceI ForwardI But Eleanor, Eleanor ?
Oh, misfortune never comes alone. Good
bye to her, to love, to the fairer part of life.
Nothing but stern duty remains."
Thus that mysterious ;man stood, re-

CoUNTEEaPLOTs.                     135
fleeting and reflecting until the multitude
of thoughts dimmed his mind; dreaming
of great purposes to be achieved, and
noble ends to be reached, searching for
means, for ways to achieve them, and still
meeting icy failure on every road and in
every attempt; thus he stood in middle
age on broken hopes and lost years, still
failing to grasp his wished for end, to reach
his glorious goal.
How many do thus'live, and die at last
without the achievment of their purpose ?
We know not. But in the dark undereur-
rents of history we find the remains of
glorious plans, the ruins of lofty attempts,
which were never known by cotemporaries,
and the originators of which lie unremem-
bered in some humble grave. Every system
has had its  martyrs. Its martyrs that
marched in the van and died, that it
might come into existence, and the mirtyra
that followed in the rear, and died that .it
might continue to exist. Some of these
martyrs we know, and honor their memory..
Most of them have died - died, to be for-
gotten. No human institution has ever
flourished without being fed with blood,
has ever fallen without burying men under
its ruins. Massor, as yet, is a riddle. But
he is a grand riddle. And when at last he
will solve the mystery, the solution will be
greater even than the riddle.  . -
The morning broke; oh how beautiful,
dewy, fresh and glorious. Golden threads
stole through the gray woof of the early
shadows, and formed brilliant combinations
with the fresh living hues of heaven and
earth. The happy green trees, the laughing
rollicking skies, the flashing water, oh
how I love them at early morn.
Massor seemed again awakened to life
by the invigorating'breeze of morning. He
slowly walked from the trees, amidst which
he had taken refuge the night before, and,
drawing his hat down into his face, walked
towards Belem.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
TREE RIvALs.
Love is of two kinds. Calm, earnest and
deep love. And warm passionate love. The


136                        THE    FATA
first is true, the latter not. True love will
never use grand expressions, will never
manifest itself in a rolling and talkative
tongue. On the contrary. Less words are
perhaps exchanged with the objectof true
love, than with any other person. Those
words are generally common place. Still
there is an attraction towards each other in
the parties, sudden, inexplicable.  When
together, each trembles, grows pale, blushes
and is awed in turn. When hearing of the
loved object, the same phenomena occur.
It is an exquisite tenderness, an extra-
vagant friendship, a holy admiration which
elevates and purifies the heart. But only
the heart - not the manners, expressions
and figure. For having no material in-
gredients it acts not upon material nature
It calms rather then disturbs the rythm of
the soul. It is so spiritual that it can exist
at the same time with a gross earthly
passion, and desire for another object, yet
be not disturbed by it. It is divine, there-
fore everlasting. It is the perfect agreement
and harmony of two souls. True love seeks
to hide its emotions. It never paints to the
world what the heart enjoys, never speaks
of what the soul feels.
We speak now of other love. It is not
gross desire, but far, far above it. It is a
fiery admiration, a passionate attraction, a
vain-glorious sentiment. Yea a sentiment to
which vanity, self-love, and a desire of con-
quest each furnish theiringredient. It is a
violent stimulant, an inebriating emotion.
It desires, it must have. It will conquer
every honorable, moral and religious ob-
stacle.
A vain-glorious passion like this, though
somewhat mingled with the purer, higher
love treated of before, was the affection of
the old knights. Noble and valiant cheval.
iers, that maintained their lady's beauty at
the swords point, and proclaimed her favor,
heralded the mystery of the kiss and em-
brace in all lists and courts throughout
Christendom.
It is needless to apply this rule to odr
characters. All will have classed Enrique
amowg the first, Hernando and Miguel
among the latter kind of lovers before this.

L SECRET,
Soon Rosa was well enough to leave the
cabin, and sit in the quarterdeck, enjoying:
the cool sea breeze. She was. happy,. and
every one knows what a capital remedy,
happiness is; it soon restored the healthy'
tint of Rosa's complexion, relighted the fire,
of her eyes and the bright coral of her lips.,
Hernando was more than ever in love
with  his brother's betrothed.  He now
sought, and often found chances to talk alone
with Rosa. Yet when Enrique was by, his
manner was so calm and tranquil, his con-
versation so respectful and brotherly in his
tenor; when he was alone with Enrique, his
praises of his brother's choice were so un-
selfish, so amicable, and without the least
spice of passion, that all suspicion was .dis-
armed, and Enrique firmly believed Her-
nando had never loved Rosa, and only at-
tacked his life at Salonga in , a it of delirium
and madness. This occurrence itself was
never again mentioned, or even hinted at,
between the brothers. Enrique had for-
given the act, and Hernando tried to forget it.
However, in Rosa's company alone, since
the Duteh sailors around were no obstacle to
their conversation in Portuguese, there was
a warmth and passion in Hernando's words,
which alarmed the pure hearted maiden.
But since that passion presented itself not in
a definite form, since Hernando rather hinted
at than directly spoke of love, and even then
never as of his own, such conversation could
not be objected to. He had a rich voice, and
often used to amuse the passengers by singing
ancient balladsin the starry hoursof evening.
Till now, he had not been able to arrange
it that Rosa and himself should meet alone
at evening. But such a chance at length
occurred. Enrique was in the cabin. Mi-
guel had now so far recovered from his
exhaustion and' broken limb that the phy-
sician ordered him to be allowed the liberty
of the deck. Enrique had, therefore, gone
to speak to him first. We shall detail their
conversation hereafter. The captain was
occupied in writing; Misardo and Modestus
were still confined to their hammocks; Maria
stood on the forecastle engaged in a con-
fidential chat with Jossdpo, the handsome
boatswain, and Moses ben Moses, the physi-

'I

OK, PLOTS AND COUNT EnPLOT'S.

eia, lay on the quarterdeck musically snor
ing. So Hernando    found himself alon
with Rosa.
The sky was so grandly blue, the se
so vast and mysterious, the sparks of the
waves so glittering, and every star so lofty
and white, that the very atmosphere of th(
night breathed softness, beauty and love.
Hernando again spoke in his warm strain
of conversation to Rosa, until his remarks
and protestations, almost oppressed her. I
seemed to her as if a cloud floated above
from which some evil could every momen
descend on her head. To change the subject
Rosa asked him to sing. Hernando, there
fore, took the lute which he had brought
on deck, and sweeping with masterly skil
across the strings so as to produce a rush
of melody, threw  back his shining hair
looked with inspired eyes up to the starry
sky,'and began, in a voice powerful, deel
and rich, to sing an ancient ballad, which
he had long selected for an occasion liki
this. The fine sounds were thrilling witl
the emotion, the truth of feeling, whicl
the singer poured out with them, and were
well calculated, together with the subject o.
the ballad, to touch Rosa's heart.
Eduardo count of Alsantar
Did love Elise the fair,
Elise the pale, the matchless one,
The lady of Calaire.
Her eyes were flame, her hair like night
Her features pale as snow;
And many lands had fair Elise
And many suitors too.
And yet she liked the valiant Count
And promised him her hand;
The count was then the happiest man
Of any in the land.
And many to the wedding came,-
And came among the rest,
The brother of the valiant count,
Alphonse, of knights the best.
And when he saw the beauteous bride,
In satin and in gold;
,The. brightness of his cheek was gone,
And paled his glances bold.
And though he strove and struggled sore,
He gaitied no rest, no peace,
For Alphonse loved with all his heart,
The beautiful Elise.
He met her in the garden lone,
And trembling said: Oh stay.
1 8

I'll tell thee of the fiery love,
e   That eats my life away.
'Tis thou I love, Elise, 'tis thou,
a   Have mercy with my pain;
And say that thou wilt fly with me
To countries far from Spain.
e   Oh, tell me that thy heart replies
To feelings true as these;
Oh say thou wilt be ever mine-
Mine own, my loved Elise.
The lady raised in scorn her eyes,
Her lip of scarlet curled:
Thou know'st I am thy brother's bride,
t   In sight of God and World;
t   Thou cast not offer wealth and rank
.   No counties broad and wide,
S   And therefore, though I love thee well,
I'll never be thy bride.
And though I love your brother not,
I'll be his countess high !
And so she turned away again
With scorn in voice and eye.
P   And gaily smiled the golden sun,
And sweetly sang the breeze;
And chirping notes of merry birds
h   Were falling fromthe trees.
'And Alphonse looked one more at her,
Oh, wildly throbbed his heart!
He stabbed himself with shining sword,
f To still his throbbing heart.
And when the lady saw the corpse,
She beat her aching breast;
All night, all day Alphonse's ghost
Would never let her rest,
Until she took the sable veil-.
Became a nun for aye;
And humbly knelt in holy church,
For sinful.souls to pray.
This simple and rude ballad was supg
with such splendor of voice, such depth of
expression, that Rosa leant her head upon
her hands, and her tears flowed silently
through them. Hernando himself was so
much affected by it,that big tears rolled from
his eyes.
"Donna Rosa," he said in a voice trem-
bling with passion, "do you not pity the
poor knight Alphonse, and regret the cruel-
ty of the lady?"
"I pity Alphonse's fate ; the .lady was
wrong to, marry for wealth and rank, but
after being betrothed to his brother could
not but reject him."
" Yet she loved him. Oh, Rosa let me
tell you in this witching hour of eve, while

gI


138                       Ta FATAL SECeRET,'
your heart is soft, that 1, too, love; Ani that for you, of what I said to night, of the ro.
my love is unfortunate."               testations which I shall constantly trumpet
"Why? does the lady not return your into your ear, he shall die, die by my handI
Affections ? Or is she wedded already?"  Not a hint must escape you. Not a glaice
"The lady knows not of my love. And speak of my passion for you, else nought re-
yet it is so great, so passionate, that it de- strains me to rcinove the only obstacle in
yours my heart. There is a constant fire the path of my happiness."
within me. I would bargain for her least  "Enrique is your brother! Oh God, what
favor, with my life. And yet I have not shall I do! "
courage to disclose my passion."         "Love me, love me, lady, and I will make
"The subject excites you, senor; let us all else smooth. Enrique is my brother;
speak of something else."              but his brother's hand shall stab him, if he
"No, no, Rosa. Let me speak now of it. gets knowledge of my love. You see how
For, perhaps circumstances will not give me strong my love for you is. It shrinks not
such an opportunity again. Let me now-" from the blackest crime, to win you. Lady
"Senor, there are subjects upon which a you are agitated. I leave you to reflect on
lady can converse but with her betrothed my words," and he walked away.
orher husband."                              CHAPTER         XXXIX.
r"But, my love concerns you. Do you not       A T H 0     X A  X  X-N.
see that it is you I love ? Do not," he cried Enrique had gone into the cabin to speak
preventingRosafromspeaking, "donot,lady, with Miguel. That gentleman proved very
rashly reject my suit. You do not know the sareAstic and fearless. le was not in the
fervor, the intensity, the fire, the power least daunted by Enrique's rebukes but even
of my love; you do not know how much all endeavored to aggravate his anger by biting
my being is interwoven with it. Whenever remarks. However, Enrique, by a threat of
you can comprehend and know the great- confining him to the cabin, succeeded in
ness of my affection, Oh, then, you can not eliciting a promise of Miguel not to address
but return it. You can not resist a passion Rosa,or in any other way disturb her, should
so powerful as mine. You can not but de- they meet on deck.
spise a gentle milksop's friendly affection,  The vessel was near home. To morrow
and turn with ardor to the heart on fire for we will be in Lisbon, the captain had re-
you. Oh think before you answer me. Is marked; and in fact, when the sun of the
your heart satisfied with the soft smiles of next day went down,the ship cast anchor in
love, and does it not yearn for an affection the broad mouth of the Tagus. The capital
stronger, fiercer, wilder? But know, how- of Portugal extended before their eyes, glit-
ever you may reply to my suit, I shall not tering in the setting light of day.
discontinue it. On the contrary, your resist-  The reader can better imagine, than we
ance will but excite my ardor. Always, I describe, the sensations that smiled in the
will follow you. Always I will tell you of hearts of the different dramatis personae,
my love; and since drops can wear down who, willing or unwilling, joined this voyage.
granite, such continued suit must win your At the request of Rosa, Enrique took no
heart. I will never despair; taunt me, de- other revenge upon the captain Misardo than
spise me, spurn me, and I will still patiently forcing him to pay the satisfied Modestus a
wait for the hour when you will say: Her. considerable sum of the money he had saved
nando I love you!"                     from the shipwreck. Miguel was invited to
The young man lay on his knees before mortal combat by each of the brothers,,but,
t6e beautiful lady. But she had risen.  after declining to take advantage of this
" Have you so far forgotten the respect1 mode of satisfaction, without-further notice,
due to your brother's brild --    t   was sent on shore. Joseppo was retained as
Mly 'brother's ?Ha, ady! Know that Iboatswain on the Dutch vessel of captain
should Enrique get the least hint of my love Sporaso.

OR, PLOTS ANtD COUNTIeRPLOTS.                            139
Hernando and Enrique landed the next remained dark, while all else were bright.-
day, and presented themselves at the palace. And one heart was sad, while all elsewere
They were so fortunate as to gain audience, joyful. To Hernando, this feast, ascan be
and there exhibited to King Juan the abso. readily imagined, was a painful scene. But
lation which His Holiness, the Pope, had he bore it bravely. And, while Enrique
grapted to the New Christians. They re- stept back to let his brother.offer congratu'
newed to the King their promises of fealty lations to Rosa, lie whispered, with smiling
and faith in their adopted religion, and were lips, into the ear of the trembling maiden;
dismissed with kind words, and expressions  " I persevere. You are his betrothed.--
of high favor.                          You may become his wife. I will wait pa-
The King cared not to alienate a part of tiently, oh, how patiently, for the time-when
his subjects from .his cause and Kingdom, you will at last be mine. I feel it well, that
and thereforeif they were true to the Christ. the time will come; I feel it in my heart,"
ian religion - which. was of prime in4ort- "And these are the words of congratula-
ance to him-and had been absolved by the tion which a brother speaks to me?"
Pope, he certainly liked it better than the  Hernando winced under this reproach.
exercise of the Inquisition against them.  "Aye," he said, nevertheless; "and I will
So it seemed, to all appearance, that the whisper it into your ear at the altar, and even
State and the New Christians were reconci- in the arms of your beloved. For ever, and
led. The Inquisition, for Qome time sus: ever, as long as speech clings to m tongue,
ended, was again put in force. It selected and life to my heart, will I say: Rosa, I love
now for its victims, unfortunate Christians thee!
or unconverted Moors; to the New Christ-  "But how vain are your words; I love my
ians or bi.ptized Israelites, it was more of a husband with such deep, enduring love, that
dark shadow in the sky than a threatening were you the most charming and gifted of
reality. The papal absolution washed away mankind, your words could never make the
all past sins, and they took good care not to slightestimpressions even on my imagination.
give cause for new accusations.         Ah, you will waste your heart and its affee-
Thus tranquility was once more among tions upon a mistake; you will whisper, and
the Portuguese Israelites, at least for the love in vain
present.    .                             "But again,I tell you, Rosa, you will soon
Enrique, returning on board of the vessel. be tired with the soft, sweet affection which
conducted Rosa to her mother's house. We is all that Enrique can give you. You will
have, tillnow, not made any mention of Don-: yearn, hunger for fire, for love burning and
na Bananda, in regard to Rosa's abduction. devouring, and then the words: I love thee,
We left it to the reader's imagination, to will be replied to, with ardor and fire.' I
paint the mother's grief and terror, when wait for that time."
she discovered the loss of her child, and we " A mistake, a mistake! and that mistake
leave it now to his imagination to portray will be your curse. You terrify and rep'el
the joy which her return brought.       me by these flashes of wild fire. I will nev-
Not only her return. For Enrique for- er thirst for blasting lightningI never yearn
mally proposed to Donna Bananda for the for hissing flame, and to those only can I
hand of her daughter.  In his improved compare feelings like these! Enough, now.
position, together with the claims h posses 1 am your brother's betrothed,his bride, will
sed from his services long ago and recently, be his wife ere long, and love him, oh, so
Donna Bananda could not but accept him., much ! yearn for him, oh, so greatly, and
The same evening they were solemnely be- prize him  above all else. Enrique is the
trothed, in the. presence of many noble choice of my heart, and not till love .and
guests. There was music, and dancing, and heart are dead, can he be ought else to me.
joy, and all the brilliant forms and actions, Enough,'then, of this, Don Hernando. Pois
in which it manifests itself. But, one brow on not ny joy."


w                       .,.
r      -        r.
. -
E
z-
F""
i-
.
}
:

140                      Tua    FATA
SAhiM poison not yourjoyI And my joy!
Xt'ill be. sweet, heavenly to night! for 1
shall dieam of you sinking upon my bosom,
loving nie as you will love me, as you must
love me once! -- Not a word of this to
Enrique I You know m well enough! If
he gets knowledge of this, he dies by my
band !" and with a shudder, Hernando step-
pad back.
What did Rosa think, what did she re-
solve upon, in the perplexing condition, to
which Hernindo's passion brought her?
Tell her bethrothed, she could not. For,
like an evil wind, the recollection of Her-
nando's words, 'I'll stab him,' swept over
her heat, whenever that idea presented it-
Elf. ' That threat, so terrible, so probable
in its execution, so in harmony with Her-
nando's character and passion, was not only
aa effectual preventive of Rosa's confiding
into Enrique, regarding this matter, but
also served to frighten the anxious bride
into an at least apparent attention to the
words and protestations of the passionate
young muau. At one moment she thought of
coniding into her mother-but no! Enrique
might get knowledge of it then, he would
not be silent, and then Hernando might
execute his threatI It was not possible to
trust the secret to any one. And, where-
tore, should she? After her marriage, when
Ifernando would perceive the utter folly of
is misplaced affection, and the vanity of
his hopes, he would abandon those wild
thoughts and wishes, would cease to per.
secute her. Till then there was no help.
She must. endure, and endure patiently
as possible.
Enrique joined his brother, shortly after-
ward. His eyes were beaming, oh so bright-
ly, with happiness and gayety. His face
was radiant, as if bathed in a beam of
pupshine and love. His dress of snowy
white satin, edged with broad rich crimson
ad laced with gold, became well the happy
occssion and Enrique's joyous face. He laid
his hand covered with a glove of soft white
leathmr,upon Hernando's arm, and looked at
bis brother for a time in silence. Hernando
was attired in orange velvet, embroidered
and laced with silver. He answered Enri-

a

a  SaaoR ET,
quo's look by a smile of sweetest: affection.
"Brother," said Enrique, "you' see my
happiness. It is more than I deserve."
" Ah, Enrique! you know that I have no
ambition but to see you happy. You weie
made for it.' You can enjoy it. But I, I
could not content myself. I should find joy
such as yours but a dull mistress." 1
"Tastes and capacities of enjoying happi-
ness are as various and unequal as the
means to acquire it. Yet, my Hernando, I
often marvel that you have not yet selected
a partner for life. You have always been
an admirer of the fair sex."   -
"All will come in due time, Enrique.
You are happy now. Wait until I choose,
and we will see who has made the best
bargain with fate."
. " Oh, I do not fear to compare my bride
with any you may wed, or, indeed, with
any lady in existence. Don Lionel has not
yet arrived. Do you think he will come ?"
" Aye, aye. There are his pages with the
lion of Judah and the star of Israel on
their sleeves.  And now himself enters.
Majestic and serious as ever. "
Both brothers hastened forward to wel-
come Don Lionel Dian with the greatest
reverence.
A smile of ineffable brightness fitted for
a moment over the pale, majestic features of
this great scion of Judah's royal race. It
was the smile of one who had known
earthly joys and felt their sweetness; of one
who had seen those joys burst in his grasp ;
it was the transient gladness of one who had
blown glorious bubbles of human happiness,
and seen the air lift them beyond his reach.
" I congratulate you, young gentleman, on
your choice," said the Hebrew prince. "It
is a proper reward at the hands of Him in
whose cause you have so often suffered and
triumphed. By your management in Rome,
you have gained peace for us all, happiness
for yourself."
" My lord, you honor us so muich by your
presence, that I am truly rewarded for my
services, by seeing you here. It will confer
happiness on my union."
"Ah, Don Enrique!"   a host of bitter
memories wooded his soul -" My presence

OR, PLOTS AN.O       CouNTanRLors.         -141
is-no charmer of happiness. It never dwells , The lady replied according to the formula:
with me. But conduct me to you- bride."  " If I find thee worthy.' Art-thou a true
Rosawas congratulatedbyDon LionelDian. Israelite, loving the Lord, with all thysoul
" Will you stay, senor, and witness the and all thy power ?"
ceremony of our betrothal," inquired En.  " I am; I am I"
riique of the prince.                  "Wilt thou be faithful to thy wife, and to
"I will, for the sight of human happiness the children she may bear thee, promising
is rare; especially to me," was the reply.  to educate them in the ways of the Lord?"
The merry' festival went on until late at * I will, I will I
niglit, when Donna Bananda took leave of "Art thou able to provide for thy house-
her guests, and all departed except the most hold ? Art thou capable of governing and
intimate friends of the family, who them-I conducting a family."
selves secretly professed the Jewish faith.  I believe I am."
The servants were sent away, the doors bolt. "Then I give to thee my daughter accord.
ed, the curtains thrown over the windows. ing to the laws and statutes of Israel. May
All present placed themselves around a table the Lord bless your union I "
loaded with fruit and wine. At the head  "I wed thee, with the consent of thy pa-
sat the bride and bridegroom  On one side, rents. I wed thee, with my 'heart's pure.t
at the left of the bride, was her mother, and love. I wed thee, with the blessing of the
Don Lionel, who had been requested to take Lord of Hosts. I wed thee according to the
this. post of honor. At the right of the. laws and customs of Israel, that thou shalt
bridegroom  were his mother, a venerable be called in future my wife - the wife of
dame, his sister, a very young girl, and Her- Enrique ben Levi."
nando. The other guests were seated. at  Pronouncing these words which, accord-
random.                                ing to the then custom among the Israelites,-
On the wall opposite the betrothed couple, made Rosa his wife, Enrique drew a ring,
a *reath of flowers had been fastened to the with a large flashing diamond from his hand,
wainscoting in a peculiar manner; it formed and placed it on that of Rosa. The fair girl
two intersecting triangles, and was fanciful- was pale and breathless with emotion. It
ly thought to resemble "the shield of Da- was well that the ceremonial gave a dumb
vid." On each side other flowers were ar- part to the bride. For Rosa had been una-
ranged to form the two Hebrew letters, M. ble, at the time, to speak. She was s0 much
T. . These being the initials of the Hebrew affected,. so speechless with happiness,-.
*ords signifying "good luck."  Six lighted Then Donna Bananda blessed her, with tears
tapers, in silver candlesticks were placed in coursing down her cheeks, and Enrique's
two rows before the bride and bridegroom. mother laid her hands upon her son's bright
Between them a high glass of Bohemian head and murmured soft prayers to God for
manufacture all full of deep red wine glit- his happiness.
tered, reflecting and refracting the rays of  The bridegroom then spoke the customary
light. This glass was flanked by two small blessing over the grape, and lifted one of the
silver cups, one full of wine and the other small silver cups to his lips, merely tasting
of olive oil. A golden dish heaped with of the wine.  Donna Bananda gave her
wheat flour, in the midst of which lay a yel- daughter to drink of the other cup, and then
low orange and a gaily painted egg, comple. all the relatives of the bride and bridegr6om
ted the preparations for the ceremony of tasted of their respective cups.
betrothal. There was a little pause of ex- "No joy can be without sorrow, no rose
pectation, and then Enrique arose and, turn- without thorn; life is filled with woe I May
ing to Donna Bananda, said:           this be the only mishap attending our joy!"
" I love thy daughter and desire her for cried Enrique, suddenly rising; and, with a
my wife. Wilt thou wed her, to me, ac- quick in'ovement, he lifted the crystal chalice
cording to the laws of Tsrael ?"       full of purple wine, and dashed it against


142

(7j

;

'1ilE FAT A~r SECRET,

the opposite wall, whence it fell in glittering  "Why, senor," began he in a slow, un-
fragments upon the marble floor.       willing voice, "have you no money?"
The egg was now taken from the dish of  "You know well enough that I am without
flour, and divided amongst those present.- any at present Pay the boatman I"
This was to recall the memory of Jerusalem , "I am a poor man, senor, and lost im-
the destroyed. For, Hebrew analogists rep- mensely by this shipwreck; I don't kno*
resent changing fortune by a round egg.-  whether I have enough, to defray my lodging
The flour was a sign of prosperity. Thus f6r to night," replied Misardo.
the ceremony was finished which, according  "Why, villain! you are heavy with gold"
to the manners of the Spanish and Portu-  "So may the Holy Virgin and St. Guilie-
guese Israelites of that age, united a couple imetta of the white rock protect me," cried
in wedlock. Enrique and Rosa were now Misardo, growing pale, "that I can not call
man end wife.                          a dobla my own."
.However, as they ostensibly professed the  "Then you refuse to pay the man ? " in-
Christian faith, they must await the public quired Miguel, in a quick impatient voice, a
celebration of their marriage, and the cere- flush of anger and shame mounting his
mony at the Christian altar, ere they could brow.
enjoy the sweet and sacred privileges of  "Never mind it, senor," cried the boat
wedded life.                           man, making a military salutation to Don
"May your love angyour union be bless- Miguel, servedvd under you in India, and
ed," said Don Lionel Dian. " May you, fair shall be happy to have been of service to
bride, be a crown and an ornament to your you." With this, he shoved off his boat.
husband, as King Solomon,. my ancestor,  Don Miguel stared at him for a moment,
sings, and may he continue to serve the and then cried:
-cause of Israel as he has done until now."  " Thank you; I shall see you again."
Very soon after, those present dispersed. Then turning, he ascended the wharf., Mi.
sardo and Modestus had already departed,
C H A P T ER    X L.          lie saw them entering a by-street, leading to
GOLD AND GUILT.
Loa having failed to procure a fortune for the poorer portion of the city. Without
Miguel, he resolved to possess himself- of other purpose or interest than that of hatred
one at any rate. He had looked upon the he followed, and saw both enter a lowly habi-
abduction as a sure means of making Rosa tation which he ascertained to be that of the
his wife,which at the same time would have priest Modestus. It was a small cottage over-
plased her large fortune at his disposal. grown with a grape vine, and standing apart
We have seen how he failed in his attempts, from the crowd of dirty looking buildings
and consequently lost all hope of recruiting around.
his fortune. The shipwreck had robbed 'So there they live," muttered Miguel, as,
himofthesmall remains of a once splendid aftergazing for some time at the premises,
patrimoriy. He was, therefore, in Lisbon, he turned to go. " And Misardo has money,
the sceie of his former extravagance, with- -money, the very thing I'm in want of.-
out money. -Not, only without money, but He has no use for it; he might as well hoard
'with a hte, deep and strong, against all so much clay, and love it vith the same love,
society.                               and conceal it with the same eagerness.-
As he stepped from the boat that took him Ah, the fool," lie hised with a bitter smile,
from the ship to the shore, he had: not where. " does he think I knew not of the gold and
with to pay the boatman. Seeing Misardo diamonds on board his vessel - aye, and
and Father Modestus landing by another saw him line his clothes with them, during
boat,he hailed them, and requested them to the storm and wreck. What have I saved ?
pay the-boatman.                       Nothing. But lost! And have been put to
Wisardo's face assumed a look of great shame, this day, by a wretched our. And
anxiety.                               who will respect me unless I have' money?

Oft, PLOTS      AND CO'UNTIERPLOTS.                      14
I must have gold at any- hazardI Misardo aid suffered much during the voyage. Be.
has-!it, -and I must possess myself 'of his hold, I have eatenyour dishes, although but
treasure. 'This is the only alternative, to slightly seasoned with garlic, and I have
prevent myself from sinking into obscurity hungered with you, to the great damage of
and contempt."                         strength. Some just recompense  to re-a
Miguel considered for some moments, cruit the juices of my body-"
and then spoke, slowly and firmly:       " Aye, my money, the hard earnedhard
' "Yes, my position .must be maintained, saved money, of a poor man, is to be thrown
for purposes of love and of revenge., No away to satisfy the gluttony of your greedy
time is to be lost, -- this very night it shall stomach," said Misardo, bitterly. "So you
be done; it is not much harm to him, it intend really not to return the money which
will re-establish me," saying which, he hur- isjustly mine, and which but the tyranny of
riedly strode to his lodgings.         these fools compelled me to pay over to you?
The old woman that kept his rooms, re- For shame, Modestus, $he last money, the
marked, as he passed her:              only fnoney of your poor old brotherI I
" The lord looks dark and  worn, and have not a dobla left."
where is his servant?"                   "Fool," replied Modestus, with contempt,
The servant had been drowned.        "and do you think that I was blind? Do
*           *            *           * you suppose, though engaged in praying and
It was night. - Grey, heavy clouds ob- supplicating the Lord, that I did not behold
scoured the morn, and gave signs of a speedy you in the cabin, whilst' stuffing thy habili-
change of weather. The streets of Lisbon ments with gold and precious stones. , You
were deserted, and all was silent,,- when have enough yet, The money and precious
Doi 'Miguel, disguised in a voluminous, gold given to me I look upon as justly mine."
black cloak and slouch hat, emerged from "It is all false," excitedly cried Misardo,
his dwelling, and after gazing cautiously " I have nothing. I had not even enough
around, as if fearful of being watched, to pay Don Miguel's boatman this morning.
speedily, but with the utmost silence, turned You must return the money to me. I need
the corner of the street, and disappeared in it to keep myself alive."
the darkness.                            Modestds rose from the table at which they
Let us now turn to Father Modestus-the were seated, and reaching forth his hand,
priest and his brother, Misardo. Havingslept quickly drew from Misardo's doublet a small
daring the greater portion of the day, they bag, evidently containing money, and ex-
were awake thus late in the night, and claimed, sarcastically:
feasting at the Padre's expense.         "You have not a dobla, good Misardo,
" It was, indeed, fearful," continued Mo- what then is this,?" and he threw thelittle
destus, proceeding with the conversation, bag upon the table, with such force that
"and by our faith, I thought that every the golden chink rang through the , room.
moment should be our last."            Misardo, like a tiger, sprang at 'it; and
"Andwhat if it should have been ?," ex- concealed it immediately in his garments.
claimed Misardo, "would it not have been  "Good brother," he pleaded, tremblingly,
better for me? My money, my ship, and all "I acknowledge that I have saved a little,
that I have so long and earnestly labored but it is not worth speaking of, it is all- I
for, is gone, and I am without a dobht. For have in the world," and, becoming more
the few that I had savedithese rascals made and more apprehensive, he continued, "For
me pay over to you. But since you are a the Virgin's sake do not rob me, but give
servant of God, despising worldly goods, back my money."
you will, doubtless, return the sum  to me."  "Rob you, knave," returned the'Father,
' I have not looked at the subject in this the voice choked with rage, and - firm in
manner, my brother," replied Modestus. "I his restblve to keep the money, which he
have accompanied you at your own bidding, had received, "and do you think to throw


44           ,Ta               PATAL     SUcan1,
words like these on orle of my holy calling?  "It i time to retire."
The money I received is a just reward of  Receiving no answer, he divested himself
my righteousness sent by my patron saint. of his outer garments, and sought his couch,
And it has even come at the right time to in the chamber adjoining. The miser re-
buy  delicate steaks and  cutlets that I mained seated, his head bowed to the table,
might serve our Savior and Mother Church for a long period, and his mind filled with
in health and good spirit. Retaining what apprehension for his gold, and the -horrors.
is my own you call robbing? Ah, villain, of the Inquisition. He, at length, fell into
the money is now justly mineI If youdo an uneasy slumber, having meanwhile, for.'
not like me to have it, go to the courts of gotten to lock the entrances to his apartment,
justiceI Accuse those that took it from you a thing very unusual with him, for he gex.
and gave it to me ! They will teach you to erally bolted every door and window, often
keep silent in future, when you have aided arising from his bed at night, to examine
ip -the abduction of a lady, and com- whether every place was properly guarded.
mitted every villany that can be mentioned!  He might have been asleep for an hour,
- Ah, already my anger has soured my when the dark figure of a man passed, with
stomach, and I can not digest our humble stealthy footsteps through the garden, at the
meal! Enough; I give back no money. If rear of the building. After first cautiously
you like it not, leave my habitation ! Leave surveying the place, as if fearful of discovery,
me, I sayIl" he examined the house, and seeming satisfied
Misardo, who, if he should leave, ex- that he was right, drew from  under his
pected to pay a night's lodging, and the cloak a rope ladder,,with grappling irons on
xest- morning's meal, considered that he each end, and, after one more hurried and
had ,better conciliate his brother; and there- fearing glance, toward the windows, flung
fora, putting on a cringing look, a persuas- it over the vines and creepers, that grew in
ive tone of voice, replied: -          luxuriant abundance over the building.. He
' Forgive me, good brother, I had so far then tried its strength, by depending his
forgotten myself as to anger my own good whole weight from the ropes, but the vine
and kind brother, but I am sure if you was not firm enough, antd, thereupon, gave
only knew how I have been troubled about way. precipit-:ting him to the ground. With
my money, you would not hesitate a mo- a half muttered curse of anger and impa--
ment to forget all that I have said. Besides, tience, he hastily arose, and eagerly listened
perhaps, I will one day repay you for all if the voise of his fall, had disturbed any ini
that I have cost you!"                 mates of the building. Finding that he had
Modestus, who in his anger had forgotten caused no disturbance, he again threw the
the considerationcf his brother's death, and ladder-this time, with more success, it hav-
a possible legacy, now remembered that fact) ing caught on a joist, erected to keep the
and, therefore, contented himself by saying: vine in place, for here, it grew in greater
" Well then, remain here, but in future abundance than over any other portion of
mind how you speak, to one whose life is the building.
devoted to expiating the sins of his fellow  After again trying its strength, and
seen, or," continued lie, significantly,1"the finding it would  bear his weight,. he
inquisition may have some dealings with mounted, and quietly opening the casement,
you." .lightly sprang into the chamber, taking
At theemention of the Inquisition Misardo care to leave the window open, in case of
turned pale.and trembled with fear, for the surprise. Then, taking from out his bosom
dread of that tribunal was universal.  a small dark lantern, lie opened the.slide,
The foregoing conversation having some- and the tiny rays of golden light, revealed
whagiyen vent to their feelings, after a few the countenance of Don Miguel di Sousa.
tpompents of awkward silence the father re- Holding it above his head, so that the light
marked:                              , might better penetrate through the gloom,

he began to look
slept, unconscious
that his dearly lov
life, were sought a
resolved, ifnecessar
already numerous ci
Suddenly the depr
his steps, by the h
sleeping man. Expe
the adjoining apart
prise, at thus sudden
of his search, that ti
hold.-
Don Miguel grasp
Misardo awoke.
Miguel crouched
the room.
The moon    emer
clouds, and shed itsI
the chamber. They
the murderer - the
danger, the other-i
unable deed his mind
Reader, did you e
of horrors, of ghosts
tunes and narrow es
awaked by hearing ti
Bess, an unusual sou
in no manner accour
beads of sweat on yo
agination filled with
prehensions ?
If such ever was
imagine than the p
struggling dread tha
The moonbeams b
then two tiny stars p
to witness the scene.
what do you wish to
sin and sorrow? G
scenes are not for y
The miser, aftei
around several times
"What could it hi
is no one here to
think me poor-ver
these words a grin
features; " besides,"
knows that I reside
come to steal, hav
about me, find is n
19

OR,, PLoTS AND COUNTERPLOTS.                             14
around.  Misardo still the diamonds, in the pocket next my heart?"
of his danger, unaware and he put his hand to his side, to assure
ed gold, and perhaps his himself of their safety.
xfter. For Miguel had   "Thanks for the information," thought
y, to add muRDE, to his Don Miguel, "it will save the time and
atalogue of crime.    trouble of a search."
edator was arrested in  Misardo still stood in the same position,
eavy respirations of the his eyes growing dizzy in the endeavor o
acting that he reposed in pierce the darkness. Now he made two or
aents, such was his sur- three steps forward in the direction of Don
ly falling on the object Miguel, but without perceiving him. An-
he lantern fell from his other step would have brought him t9 touch
the crouching man.
ed his dagger.          Miguel already slowly arose, to throw him-
He rose from his chair. self upon Misardo and strangle him; for in
in the farther corner of the excitement of the scene he had literally
forgotten his.arms,- when the miserly cap-
ged from   behind the tain drew back to the table, seated himself
pale, soft light through and laid his head down upon his arms.
re stood the miser, and Had he turned his face the other way, Mi.
one unconscious of his guel would have remained undiscovered.
unconscious of the dam- But his face and eyes were turned fully
[ was meditating.     upon the intruder, as he sank down again
ver dream a dream full into the deep shadcw of the wall. With a
and goblins, of misfor- hiss and bound he was at his side, and,
capes, and were you ever grasping the nobleman around the body,
through the solemn still- drew him violently forth.
nd, for which you could  The robber was in truth now  utterly
nt ? Awake, with great defenceless, for Misardo held him tightly,
ur brow, and your im- and the cloak which he had not divested
vague terrors and ap- himself of, contrived to keep his arms close
to his body.
the case you can better  "What would you here?" demanded the
en can ever depict, the miser.

t filled Misardo's breast.'
became more clear, and
eeped forth, as if anxious
. Innocent little stars;
behold, in this world of'
o, little innocents, such
ou.
r nervously glancing
, muttered:
ave been? Surely there
rob me ; for they all
y popr," and as he said
a smile passed over his
continued he, " no one
here.' And should one
e I not my good blade
not my greatest wealth,

" Your gold !" answered Don Miguel, as
with a desperate effort he released himself
from the firm hold of Misardo.
"Ha, we shall see as to that," exclaimed
the latter, nerved by that despairing cour-
age, which one feels when he sees that a
last but hopeless effort must be made.
"Your life be upon your own head
then," returned Don Miguel, and quickly
drawing his dagger, plunged it into the
miser's breast. The latter fell to the floor,
the blood spurting from the wound. He
essayed to rise, but again the cruel dagger
struck him down. With his eyes turned
upon the assassin for mercy, and the little
strength left him, the victim grasped a
firm, dying, hopeless grasp, upon the gar-

11,


146                       TEs FATAL-SECRET,
merts of the murderer. The latter again veying himself with a pleased look, "so it
pierced the body withhis poignard-Misardo seems, I have some charms left. And she
fell back, a corpse. ' But still with the en- rejects, she scorns me! "-his brow grew
ergy of death, his fingers retained their hold dark and threatening-" patience, patience,
on Don Miguel's garments. The heartless still patienceI my time will come at lastI
assassin, grasping the arm of the dead man, At lastI Oh I can waitI I can be patientI
severed the.fingers from the hand, thereby The fiends of hell mustfirst have pronounced
loosening himself from the death grapple of this hateful word, patienceI for it inflicts
Iis victim.  Quickly searching the body, the tortures of the damned on me! Ah, I
and appropriating all the valuables he will not murder my brother! No, no, proud
could find, which were, indeed, beyond his and terrible GodI thou shalt have no such
expenitation, he gathered his lantern, cloak accusation against me ! Hellish fiends, ye
and hat, and retreated by the way he came. will not have such hold on my soul! I will
The moon, paling at the unrelenting vil- act justly, according to the law of Moses!
lany, hid its face behind a bank of clouds justly according to the law of the land. I
-the tiny.stars had long since disappeared- will commit no sin! But ab,,if, in a quiet
harmless way, I can incite others, or can
C H A PT E R    X L I.         myself hasten the operations of nature; .if
A LADY SCORNED.               by chance I can quicken the pace of fate-
A few days after Enrique's betrothal, Her- without sin and wrong, who forbids me to
nando was surprised to receive a note, evi- do it? GodI thou canst not reproach me
dently penned by female hand, and couched if Enrique find poison in his way, and eat
in the following terms:                it? Is it not the poison thou hast created ?
" A lady wishes to see you - a lady who Can I help, if chance place it in his way?
will despair unless you obey this summons. And deserve I not merit, if after my broth-
Present yourself this evening, whenthe clock er's death, even as thy law has commanded
strikes seven, at the private entrance of the it, I marry the widow, seeking to perpetuate
Hostelrie di Santa Madre, on the square of the name of my dead brother? Ah,patience,
beggars. Knock twice, and you will be ad- patience; I am talkingwildly,foolishly ? All
mitted to meet the person desiring to see will come of itself. Enrique need not die!I
you."                                   She will be mine, nevertheless. Yes, wil-
This was all. Written in delicate char- lingly, she will love me! But oh, if I get
dcters upon tastefully adorned paper, and impatient. That is the great, the divine
tied with pink and gold cord. Hernando word of Heaven; Impatience ! Oh if I
summoned the attendant.                should get impatient, force would take what
"Who brought this ?" he inquired.    love denies ! Enough ! such thoughts mad-
"A burly man, my lord, of vulgar aspect." den meI!"
"What said he ?                        After a while Hernando again considered
"That this note was for Don Hernando the subject of the note: his vanity - what
da Costa."                             vanity of the male gender would not be-
"And desired no answer ?             was greatly flattered by the evident affection
"No, my lord,he went away immediately." of the unknown lady, and her invitation to
"Very well."                         an interview.
The servant retired.                   "I will go, at any rate," he said, "but
"A lady, a lady?" thought Hernando. only to dispossess her of this fancy. For I
"Who can she be and what can she want ? have other things in view, and the heart
It seems as if this were an appointment to a must turn fully and earnestly toward an ob-
tendet interview. Yes, surely-'she will be ject if desirous of success. Beside, I love
in despair unless I obey her summons,' un- Rosa too much, too much, too muchI"
leis I see her-ah this is love! So it seems,"  He thought and thought again. And the
he cried, turning to a large mirror and sur- love to Rosa so far conquered all promptings

rV

On, PLoTs AND
of male vanity, that he resolved upon firmly
but gently to reject every advance of his un-
known admirer, and to break her hopes, but,
with a soft hand. Vanity, and indeed the
desire to see and know her who loved him,
decided him to keep the appointment and
meet the unknown.
There is nothing like evening, nothing
like sunset. When I say nothing, I mean
in external nature. For there is something
very like it as the end of life, at the death of
man. When the good man dies, the sun of
the soul once more blazes up, and its rays
are reflected from the bright glory of his
life. Red love, golden piety, purple wisdom,
white innocence, azure charity and modesty,
green hope floating like a veil, over the rest,
all, all colors, all sentiments, burn in bright.
ness upon the clouds, whose dark face, his
course of life has changed to light. When'
the wicked man dies, the sun throws flakes
of feverish light, blushes of hectic gold upon
dark clouds that might have beenbrightened
- that have remained dark. Those streaks
of light but show the darkness, that hectic
lush is but the sign of internal disease.-
The wicked man's dissolution seems like the
dissolution of day in a thunderstorm.-
Where the gold 6f piety has given way to
lightning flashes of remorse, and the gor-
geous sky to clouds of despair. Is not the
death of man like sunset? His life in this
world like the busy, selfish, troublesome,
day ? His life hereafter like the sweet, calm
night.  *   *    *    *   We return to
Lisbon.-
The day put on its many colored dressing
gown, shed its golden eyelashes, and sank to
sleep on the dark bosom of the Atlantic
ocean.
Hernando entered the beggars' square.-
It was a street renowned for assemblies of
the beggars, and, even now groups of them
reclined, stood, or sat in thick profusion,
upon the pavement. Some were counting
the coins they had been able to gather dur-
ing the day. Others were relating their ex-
periences, and the success of their own pe-
culiar manner of begging. Still others dis.
cussed the topics of the day-the King, the
Queen, the Emperor,India,Asia,the Cardinal

COUN TER PLOTS.                   147
Savelli, and other subjects like these. Mis-
erable beings.in rags and tatters they were,
their bodies wrapped in soiled and torn
remnants of clothes, their features display.-
ing'darkened and broken tracks of human
minds and hearts - displaying human vice,
in all its disgusting nakedness. When the
bright flame in -man's heart and mind dies,
nought but smoke and ashes remain.-.--
These beggars made an immediate rush
at the richly clad stranger entering their
square, and Hernando had much trouble to
free himself of their importunate entreaties
by a plenteous donation of silver coin.
He reached the Hostelrie of the Santa
Madre., A picture of the Virgin Mary in a
Spanish mantilla, standing, with giant feet
upon a heap of doughy clouds, and lifting
two hands loaded with rings, towards a
streak of dirty yellow, designed to represent
heaven, was the glory of the inn. This
picture occupied the center of the front, and
was flanked on each side, by a window.-
The windows that had the honor to guard
the Virgin Mary,.were both open, and a fe-
male figure stood near one of them. When
Hernando approached the small private door
of the inn, this figure quickly disappeared.
In another moment he had knocked and was
admitted by the burly man that had brought
the note, and who was the innkeeper. He
escorted the young nobleman to a chamber
in the second story, and left him alone with
a lady, that rose on his entrance.
"Senor, you are welcome," said the lady.
"Donna Miranda! Is it.indeed you that
have favored me with the note?" inquired
Hernando.
"It is senor; I am happy that you are
come. You see I was awaiting you."
" A h, senora, and what is it, that you wish
to communicate to me ? If I can aid you by
word or deed in anything, rely on pe."
"1It is not to ask for aid that ladies invite
young gallants to meet them alone, and se-
eretly in a strange house," replied Donna
Miranda, impatiently. "It is for-, d9es
not 'your heart tell you senor? Do you not
kriow what it is to love?"
"My heart is silent, senora. I know what
it is to love, but, Donna Miranda is the wife


On, PLOTS AND COUT.raLOTS.       I49

of Don Isidore. I dare not mention love in
the presence of another's wife."
" Dare not," cried the lady, contemptuous-
ly; "dare not? A man, whose breast is full
of youth and fire, dares to do every thing."
"Except an act of dishonor."
"Dishonor! The wife'shand and fortune
are the husband's; her heart not always.-
The heart is free ! Or have I mistaken Don
Hernando da Costa. Are his fiery eye and
bold brow, his proud form and quick grace
but the frame of a weak, soft and ungallant
spirit ? If so, our interview is ended."
"1Had a man said this, he had died for it,"
returned Hernando. "Senora, my soul is
fiery and bold, my blood warm and youth-
ful, but--"
"Enough, then; come! " and Miranda
seized his hand and drew the young man to
the window, where a bright mass of moon-
shine streamed in. Till now her head,
shoulders, and the upper part of her body
had'been wrapped in a Spanish mantilla of
thick black lace. But now, with a sudden
movement she threw this half veil, half cloak
off, at the same time disengaging a shawl
worn beneath. Miranda then stood in the
bright moolight, attired in a robe of black
satin, edged and embroidered with gold.-
Her snowy neck and dark, heavy hair; her
soft, black eyes, full, rich lips, and features
of a-beauty enchantingly charming; her
brow and cheeks flushed with soft blushes;
all enhanced by the effect of her black and
gold robe, were displayed before Hernando's
eyes,in the bewitching moonshine.
"Look at me !" sighed rather than said
the beautiful lady.
The young man's eyes drank in her soft
beauty. -.Still he moved not, spoke not, but
by calling up his resolve, again and again,
callingup thejmage of Rosa, prevented him-
self from falling at the lady's feet in admira-
tion.
"And I love you, love you," continued
Miranda, bending toward Hernando, and
letting her softbreath sweep over his cheek.
"It is too much,"faintly faltered the young
man, every glance melting his resolve.
"Ilove you, sinc6-  no matter how longI
-   I love you now.--Come to my bosom-

oh; I am thirsting, thirstingifor your love."
With a strong effort Hernando recovered
- himself.
1  "Senora, this is not seemly for me. Your
beauty would tempt me to do what I should
repent of. Let me-"
"Oh," cried kiranda, in rage, stamping
her foot, "I shall go madI He is ice, a being
of ice. ;Senor, do I understand you to say
that you refuse my love?"
Her eye was threatening, full of immense
wrath as she said this.   "I
" Senora, I can not, believe me, I can not
return your passion. I love-- "
"Enough, senorI Enough, disgrace to be
heaped on the heart of a woman who loves.
I thought you were a man. You are a child.
We are enemies in future I You have re-
fused my love-my hate shall follow you-
aye, my hate, which is not so despicable as
you think perhaps now. Good heaven - I
thought to revel in fire, and have approached
a bosom colder than the aged limbs of my
husband! Away, senorI Away with youI
Your manner has maddened me. Believe
me, an unsatisfied, a rejected heart can hate
terribly.'"'
As she stood there in fierce anger, Her-
nando thought her beauty even greater than
before.  Her eyes burned, her cheeks
were a glow, her form dilated, and her whole
appearance was terribly beautiful. He was
about to throw himself at her tfeet- seizing
her hand, he knelt, he drew her toward him,
when the lady cried:
-"Do you add scoffs to insult, scorn to re-
jection ? " and lifting her arm in a threaten-
ing manner she left the apartment.
Hernando was glad of it. He was happy
to have been put beyond temptation. He
was sure, had she stayed a moment longer
he would have given all earth up for her.
Even now, his blood run swiftly through his
veins and arteries, and his pulses were
throbbing. Even now, his nerves trembled
in hungry desire. Even now his heart beat
with passion, mad passion.
However, Miranda had left. This beau-
tiful being had left him in anger. For this
he cared little, and, while making his way
out of the inn and home, layed his heroism,

his fortitude in withstanding these tempta-
tions, a soothing balm upon his regretting
breast.
And Miranda ? She had scarcely returned
home when a paroxism of mad passion and
anger seized her.  Every mirror flashed
back her splendid beauty, every mirror re-
flected her shame. For she was still at-
tired in the atin robe, particularly selected
to enhance her charms in'Hernando's eyes.
So she had failedI Had made the first ad-
vances, had confessed her love, had urged it
upon Hernando, tried all the, charms of
her person and manner, and'still been---
rejected, scornfully rejected as she believed.
And also failed in satisfying her craving
and wild passion.
There is, there can not be, as the poet
has ju'stly observed, in hell a fury like a
woman scorned. No other insult is like-it,
no other insult awakens so much rage. In
a nature like Miranda's, who was a pro-
ficient in hate as in love, who had lived in
courts, where both these passions assumed
their worst forms, who had served Madame
Luise de Savoy, mother of the French king,
hate grew terribly strong and quick.
Miranda had   learned  at the  French
courts how to hate according to a system.
She would not wait for chance or fortune
to satisfy her hate, but would, of herself,
begin the work, and endeavor to destroy
Hernando immediately. Knowing nothing
of his character, manners, ways, relations,
she resolved that destroyed he must be, and
already plans to that effect haunted her
mind.
Let us leave this character, bold and bad,
but characteristic of the times. It is the
duty of a novelist to exhibit vice in all
shapes, all excesses, in which it indulged in
the times, or countries he describes. His
task would be but half done, were he to
present bright, glorious men, and cast a,
veil over vice and sin. The times I describe
were passion stained and rich in vice. I
have painted, occasionally, in dark colors
but rather let my picture be displeasing
than untruthfuL  Miranda'is a character, a
type of court ladies of the sixteenth cen-
tury, and I have not hesitated to do her

justice, both in describing her vices and
merits. Has the reader's delicacy been of-
fended, it is well; for the evidence of a
pure heart is to feel repugnance to .vice ;
and this picture will have the effect of
strengthening the love of virtue in pure
hearts, since no gloss is thrown over the
ugliness of sin.
CHAPT-ER       XLII.
"HELL HAS NO FU RY LIKE A wo-
MAN SCORNED.i'.
The clock strikes twelve; the cool night
wind bears the silvery sounds far over the
green tops of Mount Cintra. The village of
Belem is silent and dark, with the excep-
tion of the steeple of Maria Annunciata,
which, all bathed in moonshine,points to the
azure sky.
However, a close observer might have
seen a golden thread of light struggling fro&amp;
the closed shutters that barred the windows
opening from the vaults of the inn, Saint
Ignatio.  Again, dark, and dusky forms,
muffled in cloaks, were skulking along the
streets from the river, and the highway,
keeping in the shadows of the walls and
trees that they might remain unobserved.-
As each approached the inn, he kissed his
hand, and then pressed it against a small
tin case (fij~tt) placed on the door post,
when the portal swung open, and the person
entered, taking the precaution to shut the
door after him. All but a few stragglers
had entered; amongst them we recognize two
figures. The one, in hat and coak, hastily
striding along, and seemingly buried in his
thought, was Hernando da Costa. The
other in the dress of a gay page, with white
plume concealing the- face, and sweeping
down upon the shoulders, is Miranda. - For
the proud lady had assumed that dress, for
the purpose of concealment while watching
Hernando. "No man's life is pure," she
thought, "and, if well observed, we may
find a weak point, in every ones character,
wherefrom to attack him successfully.--
And, since I wish to ruin Hernando, I must
first of all ascertain that weak point, This
can only be done by a close system of obser-
vation. But my passion, and my hate is

148          'rHB  VATAL  SECRET,


T  L.

150                       Ta    'FATA
known tonone, darebe known to none except
my chambermaid and myself, Therefore,
my cham.abermaid shall watch him in dis-
guise, and, occasionally I myself shall fol-
low him." She acted accordingly, and now,
in the disguise of a page, followed the un-
concious Hernando to the secret meeting of
the Israelites,'
Imitating the example of the others, she
pressed against the small tin case, and found
that the clasp which fastened it to the post,
contained a spring, a pressure on which un-
looked the door She entered through some
dark vaults, into the large and well lighted
ball, which served the Israelites, as a house
of worship and council, whenever they could
safely meet. From friend to friend, from
Israelite to Israelite, amongst the nobilty
and the commons, at court, in the navy,
army, ot behind the showy counter of ware-
houses and places of businessthe announce-
ment'had ciroplated, and been whispered
by Jewish tongue to Jewish ear, that a grand
meeting was to'be held in the hall beneath
St Iguatio's inn, and that Don Lionel Dian
would preside at thatmeeting.
This was the cause of the gathering of
the crowd, that now presented itself to the
eyes of Miranda.
There was a hum of expectation, followed
by silence. Don Lionel Dian arose, and
spoke:
"Brethren I Fellow sufferers in the holy
cause I Fellow patriots of Israel, and de-
fenders of God's word I At length have we
escaped from the danger, and again has the
Lord snatched his own from the serpents'
toils. We have, with our Gold, wrung from
the corrupted, head, of a debased religion,
protection for ourselves and families. But
the dangerwhich-we have removed, was un-
doubtedly brought on us by the anger of the
Lord. And wherefore was lie angry with
his children? Because Israel had left him,
-had deserted his laws had inclined to the
doctrines of the Nazarine. And now that
the danger is past, will we not return to
Him, whoi through all ages, has proved our
'tiend, our Father and our God. Yea, Is-
'kaelites-I- your prince, and.your own hearts
call on you to renounce every strange

AL SECRET,
thought, to be sanctified, to love your God,
to obey his commands.
" It is true, that, for the present, the dan
ger is averted, but what trust can be put in
one, who has already shown himself - to be
corrupted. Therefore, be not deluded, the
serpent's coils are not yet unwound, but
only loosened; at any moment, may they
again enfold us in their close embrace and
it plung its poisoned fangs deep in our
hearts.
" Our necessities command, that, in out-
ward appearance, we should be Christians,
but beware! let your hearts not take a liking
to the mask. When aione with yourselves
and with your God, strip off the hateful
shell, and let theilight stream into your soul;
that light which comes from Zion, and beams
from the holy MountI Brethren, take'
courage, draw your swords, gather together,
sons of Israel, the Lord will send his mes-
senger, the Messiah!"
This speech, full of enthusiasm and holy
fire, failed not in effect upon the hearer.-
The eyes of the young men flashed, and even
the old participated in the excitement Don
Lionel Dian, sat down, and now the leaders
of Israelites gathered around him, and held
council concerning the circumstances of the
times, and the measures to be taken for
avoiding the cliffs and sandbanks, which
still surrounded their race.
Before dissolving the meeting,'Don Lionel
again arose, and said:
" Let those present now depart. On the
evening of Monday next, another meeting
will be held, and then we shall instruct, ac-
cording to our best knowledge, and council,
all with our experience of the way to obey
his God, while living according to the neces-
sities of our exile. Monday evening a reli-
gious service will be held, the service of
the New Year. Let all, women and men,
come to serve their God, and proclaim the
Lord one, high and mighty, merciful and
just, the humiliator of the proud, and com.
forter of the suffering. Meanwhile depart
in peace.'
The assembled multitude rose, and silent-
ly left the hall. None but some of the old-
est and wisest Israelites.some learned Rab-

ORt, PLOTS     AND
bis of the 1mud, and some wealthy and
noble leaders of the nation, remained with
Don Lionel Dian, to consult on the welfare
of the people.I
Let us return now, to Miranda, disguised
in the dress of a page, who had followed
Hernando to the secret assembly of the Is-
raelites.
She had entered unseen, and placed her-
self behind a pillar, some steps from Her-
nando, As a matter of course, she saw and
heard all that passed. This knowledge
hoarded in her bosom she left the hall with
the throng, and walked on heedless of the'
direction. In a few moments her thoughts
reverted to present circumstances. She
looked around for Hernando and the rest of
the Israelites. They were scattered, here
and there, returning to the town, or to their
habitations in Belem and the surrounding
country.
"1I will return to the city now," observed
Miranda to herself. "I have all I want.-
Oh Hernando, you have scorned me! insult-
ed me! Revenge is a cooling breeze to the
scorched heart, akid I shall have it, satiate
myselfI His whole race shall be destroyed!
The blood of hundreds will wash this insult
from my bosom! And yet he is so hand"
some ! so manlyI Ah, if he would but now
consent to satisfy my passion, and to accept
my love! If he would - but no ! expose
myself to repeated scoffs ? He has once re-
jected my love -I will reject pity, his
nation shall bleed for it."
Thus thought Miranda, and battled with
herself, as she went along the road to Lis-
bon-hard, fatiguing journey for her unus
ed to much exertion.   But, the pain pf
body, and its fatigue, was as nothing to her,
before the thoughts of the mind, the war-
ring emotions of the senses. Senses, for we
are unable to say whether Miranda's heart
was greatly concerned in- her passion for
Hernando da Costa.   I
- Anger and hate, with love, hopeful in
spite-of rejection, were having a great strug-
gle in her mind. Finally she had come to a
resolve, and stopping for a moment cried:
"1Revenge is sweeter yet, and rarely can

C O UNTER PL OT..S.              151
I enjoy it in such quantity. I will .destroy'
them all. Their sentence is spoken."  i
And then,she ran with great speed towards
Lisbon, whose suburbs were soon reached.
The dream-distilling goddess of night-
had hung her diadem of stars upon -her
azure hair, and spread her dark transparent
skirts over the earth. Broad beds of purple
blackness and crystal moonshine rolled over
the verdant land and corrugated sea. ,A
song, like the rushing of the mysterious
waves of Eternity's sea, like the billows'of
time surging away from the Earth, rocked
in the air. It seemed each vast minute
could be heard to drop from the earth in
the still fanciful night.
And through this 'night Miranda borel
home to the mansion of her husband, her
burden of hate, and her revengeful thoughts.
CHAPTER         XLIII.
MAN CAN NOT AVERT HIS FATE.
No I man can not avert his fate, and there
are two grave reasons for it. In the first
place, no soothsayer or teller of the future
has ever arisen, whose word was author-
ized sufficiently to appear in the eyes of
men as the absolute flat of fate. Secondly,
men recognise events only as fate, after
they have happened. A necessary corollary
of the position .assumed in the foregoing
two sentences is, that man does not know,
therefore can not avert his fate.
Donna Miranda had been announced,'aid
now entered the saloon, in which His Emi-
nence, the Cardinal Savelli received -stran-
gers. The Secretary of the Cardinal, Pater
Domingo, was present, standing behind the
chair of his Eminence.
"Seat yourself, daughter," said the Car-
dinal, calmly, answering Donna Miranda's
salutation, by a nod;' "seat yourself, and
communicate -wherefore you demand audi-
ence with us.   Vt e are -servants of the
Church, and our ear I always open to
the voice of poor humanity."
"It is not to'confess and not to pray, holy
Father, that I have craved audience with
you," replied Miranda, with some affectation
of awe. But, before I begin, let me remark

.
a
,
i
i

-)


Tna    FA'AL SECRET,
that my business requires the :greatest  "Proceed ; But fail not o unburthen
secrecy."                              your heart in the confessional."
"This is the Secretary of the Holy In-  A'sneer flew over Miranda's face. How.
quisition, senora," replied the Grand Inqui- ever she continued:
sitor. " You can speak without reserve -in  "For purposes of my own, I watched and
his presence." -                       followed Don Hernando da Costa for several
"I can not, Eminence. For, though my days. Your Eminence knows. him for a
communication is mainly to your own ad- heretic."
vantage, yet it concerns me also. For my  "Oh, surelyI Only deliver him into.my
own sake I will not confide - and trust to hands ! Once, he has escaped by the help of
the secrecy of two men, where one would the evil one. And now he is secure by the
suffice."                              protection of his Holiness' absolution. But;
"This is strange, senora. But since you oh Virgin Mother of God ! give him again
wish it--Father Domingo, we request you into my hands, and no Devil or Pope shall
to hear the confession of his majesty, this save him I"
morning; Go, in the name of the Crucified."  "I will place him into your' hands! Not
The Secretary went out.                only him, but all of those false hearted New
Cardinal Savelli turned with a look of 'Christians! Cardinal, I will bring fuel for
pleasure to Miranda. Her desire of being your stakes I"
alone with him, seemed to indicate some  "But, my pious daugliter, we must con-
affair of gallantry, and the mighty Cardinal, vict them lawfully of sin against the Savior
with all his holiness, was not beyond the and the Church, after issue of the papal
greatest and most general weakness of absolution. Naught else will servethe pur.
Adam's iace. But the lady quickly dispos' pose. Can you give me means toaccomplish
sessed him of this belief.            this?"
" r  se sa                    "I can, nay you shall surprise them with
"Father," she said," I come to serve the
. . .o. your familiars in the act of sin."'
Inquisition. I do so, with the strength of  " familiars in  he  mri.
ofsariicngm                "Daughter, you have merited heaven.
my piety, regardless of sacrificing my pri Give me the particulars."
vate character in your eyes. Again, you will
not use the knowledge, thus gained to do
o   i    days, without his perceiving me. Yesterday
me, bana, nor will communicate it to any
s me evening, he went to Belem, by water. I fol.
one. Promise me this, and I am ready to
lhT                           a      lowed in another boat. We had landed at
fil the prisons of the Holy Tribunal."
the same moment, and proceeded together
QDanghter," replied the Cardinal, with to an inn, at the corner of two streets."
dignity  " our eye is the eye of God in this  "But did he not recognise you?"
world, apd looks mercifully, on  human   "I was in the disguise of a page.- I saw
weakness. Again, we cover the sin of our him enter through a side door of the building
neighbor, t #,never spread it abroad. 1, anddid likewise. A narrow passage and
therefore, promise jto observe silence in stairs conducted us to a large apartment,
regard to you     location, and not tO excavated beneath the ground. Here, num-
use the knogated, except for the bersof New Christians were assembled; here
benefit of the Holy bunal. Now proceed they made rebellious and heretic speeches,
with your part of t  agreement."       but they did not worship in the Hebrew
!f Very well, goe4, Father, I will relate manner.  However, the Chief appointed
briesfiall-that eabe of advantage to you. tllem  to return next Monday evening, to
For plirposes of my own  --           council and worship. It was he who also
"What purposes'of your own, daughter?" repeatedly addressed them to keep true to
"My delicacy allows me not to be minute, the Hebrews' God. Now, my Lord Cardinal,
your Eminence. :This concerns not -my in- place sufficient familiars at my disposal, next
formation."    ',                     Monday evening, and the heretics are in thy

I'

I

OnI, PL'o   s A  nC eD)  '9-nX Lo0T s.
gadMimranda rilatedthis'iMa  verf 'iow ba'tliis gave him no eule % The CrdinalWs
idieeb - r                 .  he had promised ta tcMinda, kVesall'the
"LIdyllybuhave doae'niighty things ifor arrangeiment6 trictly eecrebIr,therefore,
MOthe  ChUrdh.  God- will riswaid yon I almost seemed toFate' Iiinigo as' if ihe
(Oideeidgthe' apture of it e Itebrews, I afhir of thelsdy ta*s ar tendbrna.' At any
wil'ff disdaanfficent f6deejbeside a division rate he attached 'zo idportance' Lb et
dfidileriplaeed-it niy disposal. But you visit.
hite not specified the house of meeting."  Monday eveniag-'New Years eveiag.
"No, because lTwillguide your soldiers to For the eycliW of the year was edn&amp;ipeted,
it   v IAw'lh to be present. Grant me' this. according to the Jewish CalendariWith the
Lt4m6 aompaiy the familiars, in.the dis- last daa if fall, an'd the; fedival of the New
guise of a familiar!"      -           Year, at the beginning bf another, ladar-
"Sideofi seeito attach so much impor. rived with the Mtnddy emning. - This festia
tafbto it,'e* ill grant your request. val is ode of thd'highesti3oritance aindbg
Then you ea f etrve us as guide."    Israelites, and alias celebrated with a
''Mondday afternoon, at four o'clock, I great deal of cereinoe  , and with an elhibi-
*111 be here. Another request, my Lod tion of emotions, neble,'as theyate deep add
0a- iinal Grand InquisitorI Let none know strong r
the purport of this cotfmunicatiovi - not  The reader can imagine, how important
,seui yont-seerbtif. It almost seems 't me and welcolae this festival Was to the 'ottu.
d if 4 had , seen 'his face among  the guese Israelites, all alone in a Iaid,' and
HeY'tews last'ight"                   aniong a nation of hostile fanatics.- They
"Ah, seftithese fears are idle. Pate could not often meet in fityi bet it seemed
IVomingo  i6edredomended- to us by high that'at least on the Holy"evening of New
ptbotis eaid'iia pious priest of the Church. tear, God had graut4dtheta peadeto woi-
Iledies all)Ay confidence."            ship him according to their ancieAt cust6s
"1 6thit  instance, I pray ydu,. withhold and ceemonies.
from- dotaihinicating with him: I am'euie,  Curtains of white silkreaching from the'
I haeoedtAn'his face at the meeting of the ceilidg.to the floor, divided the subteiranean
HNbrew. ' Bet, we will tnot discuss this. hall in two apartments. Thelirgeroneowas
My'reguest'is'-keep this matter see"et from destined for the males, the other'forithefe-
alf men, and your secretary in particular. maleportion of the congregation. Eaclicom-
Iff t;,16 [will ot' anster for the success of apartment was already crowded to the-utinost
ybtt attempt."                         extent.-e
""The seess lies in God's hand," said  The men were all attired in whitekhoo,
thktidinal, sanctimoniously; u But since and the females in robes of the' sancolor.
Itis youi especial desirti, I promise to Man- Not an ornament, not a bright cloe#l speck
ege the matter 'myself, so' that anne, not could be discovered-on their paied, except
6ed my secreta-y get knowledge of it."  here and there a 'lc  b    The Walls
"This satifies me. My Lord, Igo. Your also weie- cover             4f sM ledi
gon&amp;rise of aeck'tf 'has' been- given. Re white.. Theg              elawws
diilbt it, I shll h 6 here Monday, at four draped in. dilkof  "pure'coloiland
snow iowershhd-        eathed aroinad,to
The lady departed.                    condeal itsgold ani   r ornaments. 'On
Although Pater Domingo had listened each-side'of the arlf, sl ds piled'with
it' the mouth of' atube opening into the miagniflef fruit' hatmiI  p1Apei
ball, yet as 'both doke so low, he had not cots, grapes, orangds       '-adrtethe 'with
bee6 abied tieat4ha '*rd. Father Domingo, the last blush of ripenesiilionthemyspread
th ee,  ew nothring ortlo surprise, Wd a delieions perfume through thebait: Long
beentempted ext, Monday' Ovening 'It is wa x tpers and -lanps,also '*reathed- with
true, he, ascertained who the lady was  white flowers spreadadasling light around.
20

I

I


it                     iTnsi    FATAL   SaOnnu,
Theeat'att4he right side of the ark, was .An4now he tops and t Mes up thsgor
. eoupiedo y.Doa)Lionel Dian, the one on the net. Holy instrument that has sounde4ere,
left byDn Lama Benat, or Rabbi Lamuel, God gave iilawI the instrumentwhical-
as his peoplecalled him,,the aged Rabbi of led Israel tobattle and to prayer, to heavets
the congregation. Rabbi Lamuel, in long and to earth. , This sounded in remembrance,
White robes with silvery hair and beard float. of the ten thousand cornets that salutedeseh .
ing to his shoulders, and lofty brow and eye, morning from the:temple gate. An4as th
presented an exteriorunparalleled indignity. sound, stirring and piprcing,,rises amidsi -;
His mind and soul were a masterpiece of lent awe, each hearp trembles.., Thricenine
nature'sGod. . . times sounds the call- the call to Spd4 the
At a desk in the center of the hall stood, call of God. And souls cry to Him, Whom,,
AaronRodow the reader of the congregation, each one feels so near now.
reciting the prayers. He was a German by And at the sound of the cornet spemory
birth, and had been induced by Don Lionel calls up Jerusalem, the fair, the tensple, na-
Dian to come to Portugal and serve his tionality, freedom, all, all fallen; memory?
brethren there. A person of great strength calls up those who last year and manyyears
and dimensiore, a voice of exquisite harmo. ago heard that cornetin the same synagogue,
ny, and a noble spirit distinguished Aaron and who now lie beneath, the cold ground.
Rodow.                                 Many, many tears flow.
Ahil- what a world of deep and earnest And then the sound of armed men without,
devotion beamed upon the faces of the gath- arises; but though cheeks grow palog the.
ered Israelites I What an intensity of pray. prayer may not be disturbed.. Theclang
or flashed from their eyes, as the words of and tramp grows nearer thoughAuffed, and
some mighty supplication were recited by it is evident that armed men enter.the build-
the impdtssive, deeply touching voice of the ing. Aaron Rodow stops for aimoment, and
reader! Prayers, good, dear prayers I-Ye all throw their anxious eyes upon the Rabbli
are the roots of the soul striking into heaven, He lifts up his voice and in Hebrew says:
to keep it straight on earth.            "Lord, we are with thee, let no thought of
At this divine service we find all our earth disturb us ! Though the ground burst
friends attending. Hernando, Enrique, Ro. under our feet, and4the roof burn over out
sa, Donna Bananda, Captain Sporaso, Moses head, let us remain absorbed in' prayer and
ben Moses, the physician, all are attending, song to thee"
praying.                                 These words spoken loudly, tranquilly,
'Ad the song of Aaron Rodow rises and have decided the course of the congregating,
M  and the ancient tunes, which thousands have decided theirfate. Though the soldiers
of yes e ago: re-echoed from  Lebanon's of the King be without, though dgt$h hang
mountlfiwalls and floated over Jordan's over them, the holiest of prayers nust uot
waters ;Wke tunes'Which rolled in sorrow be disturbed. They are serving God--bettor
by Babylen         to the sound of which die at their post than desertit. The; dgors
the Medst              the Syrian fled; are flung open and the familiars of the  In-
to the music            Cochba rose and quisitien enter. ,They stop a moment in
the Romans dlqd.,   'od Hebrew tunes, amazement. The most important moment
with their joyous      d mournful cries of the prayer has arrived. The readereoriesr
and their glorious    and turns, gladden in sounds ringing through bone and mar-
he heart of th e  s multitude in the row:
whi    '.ogue of    e -secret Israelitesin  "1But, we bow down, and prostrate our-
Port   ,r and-tieeader- is reciting the selves before the supreme King. of 'Kinge,
great-prayer, whichproperlyt should be re. the Holy one,.blessed be he I", And reader
cited tomorrow noon, but aaIs Ithen they ad congregation' throw theselves 1-on
their faces on the ground. And' hYsU il
ea. not meet; and he recites it with his sobs ard heardfromthe'femalecompartthent.
.right, pious heart'i his voice.   - And teards'ow from the eyes of men.

I;

91t, PLoT' A1ND D00WTARL'*TLOv4.                        155
the familiars'stand'silhnt but-for a mo- andsix together in one apartment, played
ment, and then they call in the -others, and softly'the prayers of the New Yetr.
scon'one by one the unresisting Israelites              -
are bound and fettered. Their faces are      CHA P T E R XL I V,.
very pale, butstill pronouncing the words of T 3 1aPRIso  o  SANTA  o CiU t.
gerei, still listening to the song of the read-  All the Israelites were'in the fatngs of the
er, they hear not even the threatening -and Inquisition,-no, not all, for twoof thdeiost
lisihemous words, the scorn and the scoff important had succeeded in mysteriously
of' tlie-familiars and soldiers. No not even disappearing. These two were Don Lionel
the females disturb their prayer to weep or Dian and Captain Sporaso.  The fact was,
wail. All is quite as before.: One would Don Lionel had whispered a word in the
not think a disturbance took- place, were it ear of'a familiar, who placed the-handcuffs
not for the nurses of the familiars and aol. on him. The familiar replied- by'a look,
diers. They are taken away as they are and unlocked the fetters' of the Hebrew
bound, paying and praying.  Even Don Prince and his companion, ere he Conducted
Lionel Dian, even Rabbi Lamuel, Enrique, them to their dungeon.
Hernando, 1osa, Donna Bananda, all are - They were placed in 'a separate cell, and
prisoners of the Inquisition. But when the scarcely had the door closed upon them,
familiars approach the' ark, and open it, when Don Lionel threw off his fetters, and
.when they are about to touch the scrolls of was quickly imitated by the Captain.
the law, then a wail, a cry, a shriek arises- "Silence "' whispered Don Lionel, as the
wild,heart-rending, despairing. You might Captain was about to speak, "and-see how
have slaughtered their children before their easily we are to escape," and, pressing with
eyes-the Israelites would not have felt half his whole - strength, against',a pillar in the
the despair and sorrow,' half the .anguish corner of the cell, it swerved slowly from
and rage, which now pierced each"heart its place, and disclosed, at its base, a'small
When they saw their'good, dear law touched, circular cavity. Dian quickly descended,
about to. be: defiled by Gentile hands. It followed by the Captain. Scarcely had the
was the some- of anguish. Their life was latter's head disappeared beneath the level
nothing in comparison with a single copy of of the floor, when the pillar moved back to
the law being defiled. This was indeed its former position.'
worse than death to each. Aaron Rodow,   Let us turn to another apartment in'the
in a paroxism of rage tore his bonds, and prison of Santa Crus.. Hernando, by strict
singing as'he was, as he had been the whole orders' of the .Cardinal, has been placed
time, bounded to the ark, tore away the fa- alone. His cell is the most sombrsa nd
iniliars, and cast them bleeding upon the gloomy ; his fetters, the heaviest. 'He is
ground.                      -         moodily pacing the narrow confnes of his
- "May he who maketh peace in the high dungeon, reciting the usual prayers of the
henkens, preserve peace among us and all New Year Festival. The 'door opens, and
Israel, and say ye' amen!"  Thus sung Miranda, in the dressof familiar, enters.
Aaron Rodow triumphantly, as with blows  Hernando hoe tileriak of the door,
of the cornet he threw'two more familiars to hears the enteringfootsteps, but does not
the ground. But numbers overpowered him cease praying. fThidiay looks at him in si-
verysoon.                             lence,' for some moments.
When the morning sun rose, the Israel-  "Do you hold mynanger despicable, now,
ites were secured in the dungeons of the senor ? Do you laugh now at the revenge
convent Santa.Crus. And in his-dungeon, of a woman?" Miranda-histes, as with
Aai-n:Rodow began to chant the morning flashing eyes, she-brings her mouth close to
prayersofthohigh festival until they gagged Hernando's ear
him. i'And in their dungeons' each. portion The young man ceases praying, and turns
of Israelitesfor they had been placed six to her, with a puzzled look.

11


T      F     L .83 .SJ&amp;cai$r,
£'P  pgano~kerg m e2 ' ypppn9g   4 Ibnde4tsjp fpa prrigs~gag      gp ght
tearing away Jier .eapessn hpwpping .the Miadperying; g g. - , - p a
rolled up hair over her- shoulders. " It isp,  She-devil Jerpnt1yp%,slsllot !i$,.
Miranda di Cpinerooqwho loved you so mad' neas it. This:Tevepge will be sky lust. I
.ly,'o  yqi.porned, an gwphss.reyeng- will murder yol"
,4 -rqeef. , Yourwhole nstig, q eoare   "And burs .also, for it1. Ip  be th.
sp ivpp of th f        *oly Inq'isition. And,it is I qeance of ifeyou havs !"
'who followed you, untillI disqove  -.t4at  " I carenos for life. The souer I dip
,rtr  haunt; it is wbo led the servants of the better., Woman pray to God, for LWwil
theInqgisition there; it-is I who will esqp asd .you to his justice set, are mnpy, mc-
uP      , o be pnenged to  e.stakeI And all sments have passed.":  .
J9 :ss0pfy  yrvenge, my bate! Do you- "Let ,me loose, emer, I pray, and- pense
z~pg 4noiw, senor1 what it is to scorn a w- yppr jokes.  as a woman.'    .
]nan'Saa'egtion?  t .js lasting hatei; it is  "A  wonan ,,are r4ot to assume tast
death to thesorerI!"              . oly name which alsq belongs oiny p ther
Hernando was thunderstruck by the in- and the being IlevqelIam puttg! 4tporible
tqligence, which this outburst of her rage jolie upon yo.. You grp a deil,aserpent.
no9veyed .,to him, He leaned against the I will at least serve humanity by destroying,
ropgh  al anO,.convulsively clasping his crushing you. Prepare for death."-, I
hands,.ed:-----             -"Ruffiani screamed Miranda; "Spgof,
.A-Q4Lord, have mercy 9n nm! Then, I Hebrew, Iinhand me."        ,
pan the cause of my nation'smisfortune "  But fernandqenfol4ed her throat in hs
" Yes, you I- Ab, you suffer now-! Does whitemuscular hands and presPing furious
itPot sting andbqrn in-your bosom? That ly, began to choke her.     -
is my doingt"                           She. struggled.,ineffeetually, and, alrea4y
b1 Away, woman, and torture me not with her movementsgrew weaker, when attracted
your aunts. ,:God of Israel help! I shall by the crisp and noise, two fasiliarpsnterd
9 md." -  .                         tbe prison.. They had scarcely; parseived
"No; madness will not, come to deprive the chained Hernando endeavoring-to kill
impotent rage of its,. sting. Madness will Miranda ptill in the guise of a familiar, Ore
not bless you to dull the kifeof the rack, they.threw themselves upon both, and wih
nd cool thew ,ame of the ataike. With full considerabl trouble released the lady.nr
nonsciosaess you will suffer!"       Hernando was then bound, in Ach a maA-
. Woman! go awg.y. My patience can ner, hans and feet, that he could. not move
-e4ure no longer,"       ,   - .      at all, and Miranda borne from the ell,.
"To r patience? Let itbreak, if it hold  . In the afternoon. Hernando; before $s1
no lopger. - Set -up and shatter your chains, proceedings against the other prisoners, was
burst your prison  walls! Arise in your tried, and sentenced to be burned.at the
might, my impatientHebrew" I          stake, on the day following, that is on e4-
Herpandoegain began to pray softly and nesday. Preparations were made immedi--
elowly, while-Miranda endea.ored .to tpnt ately, in the great  quare of Comserer for
him into rage. lBe, however, allowed her the execution, .At nineo'clock in -the1eves
not to disturb.him; bu$,a the sharp, pois- ing, Hernando lay.till bound inhis dungeon,
onous words fell upo - hip ear, he merely quite resigned to his fate; nay more,-he was
gnashed. his teetkand continued to pray.- happy. Not that extrQvagant religious en-
4tlpst Misanda, in a rage of hatred, struck thusiasm caused him to look so quietly on
-hia~sespk ad oried: ,,-             death, but all circumstances around him,-bis
.R-ase, lowborn blelrem:.i How.shall you guilty love for Bosa, his -schemingsgainst
enjoy the sight of your mother, brother and Bnrique, whom, at the same time, hoegar-
sister burning at the stake;?"  -      edwith warm.4fection, and the knowledge
Hernando, unable to endure any longer, thathewap the cause of-his nation's present

Ol, PLOTs. AN D- Csi0JTEl'LOTS.                         157
esp *vit a   distress, c4ied temake dying It" sar wspl9mz     io  erecited
Wd Pgigsted with life;  a    akiwish thosecearnest  ers thptris by the death
fpr e station of his hypocritica, goble bed,;, ernandoealmlyaesponded-totheu
and painful existence, in death, d4 nine .  ear, oh Israel, the T ord :our God-is
o'clock Pater Domingo entercA his dungeon. One!" cried the priest, and Was responded
The patermas closely mgegetiA 4his robes. to, in the same words., Then the young uor
is pwook was bent, and his fAce, semed 9 ble recited the register of sins and. beating
rest on  hip bosom. He spoke slowly and his breast asked forgiveness of Godefor those
mournfully to the youthful prisoner.  .' he had committed. When, ho  eased,ithe
"ernando 4 Costa, I bring you .life, if the priest's voice again arose:
yon desire it. Attwelve-o'ok the moAls -"Hear, oh Israel the Lord .our God. Is
come, to pray and sing with you until morn' OneI!" and the -same -response was givm,
ing. It is now nine.; I.esn lead yottnom Agoin, and again, the lofty declaration
this prison, but not without being observed. sounded through the dungeon. Then, bow-
L oan ave you but not ,without sacrificing ing low, Peter Domingo-chanted seventimes
myself, in -so. far as displaeementfrom the in a sombre voice,.awfulin its quietness:
high posito1tI now oeocpyis concerned."        "ADoNA   HU aL ovix VI .
A "Pater F'.can yow -iot-save the others at     THu LonD is Gop I
the same time?"                          The prisoner repeated the words each
"No, my .son.   A whole congregation time. Withthis tho ceremony had.endedi
conld not escape from the country as, one Ifernando was ready for death.  ateDa4
man eould. They would be retaken easily. mingo silently embraced him:and turned to
Before. I can iberate any of the others, ggo.
arrangements for their ;escapeto Hollano . But the young noble held Is gown.
mutti be made. -These arrangements will be  " Father, One more. quest. Who ae
complete in a few days., Then I can liber- you?"
Mte. them, butonly at your .expense."    The priest bet downto his eat and whis-
" Why, father, at my expense?"       pared two words.
" Because by setting you free, I will lose,. In a moment, Hernando lay on his knees
the confideneeof the Cardinal, and therefore and covered Pater\Domingo's hand with his,
the power to open prison at my own will.- ses. A. few minutes afterward the young
God may help thet unerertheless, should you man wasalone.
desire life onthese conditions."         On the following day, Don Hernands da
4 No, father, pot Life is not so precious. Costa was burned on the Praca di Commer.-
By my fault - the congregation has been alo.         .
brought to captivity and sorrow.I will not  The, winds.scattered'his ashest far and
now buy existence on earth at the expense of wide, over the city, the river and the gar4
their Jives. Father, I bank you. Let me dens. The sea breeze tried them to the
die in the knowledge thatstmy people will merry, merry ocean waves.
oscapw- from their Aorrible persecutors, and     .       --err- :
I die contented.    Father, envey my last  C. O  A P-TB E      L V.
greetings,,my Iastkisses and- assurances of '  A kBE war. L 'r o i H  B  -
eternal love, to another, my sister and to Wa have in a former Chapter described an
my brother Enrique-also-also to my broth- interview of. Don Lionel Dian And QueeR
her's bride, Donna Rosa Bananda. : Tell them Eleanora,- let the reader sgain'accompany
to devote.sometimes,-a kind thought,.to their us to be secret chamber, Ahat witnessed
dead Hernando ". ,                    the.stolen meetings of the -.Por!uguese
My son, God-bless you! [God give you Queen and the Hebrew Prince.
peasein heaven!i Truly you are noble, and  Don Lionel and Eleanora sat on a bouch
worthy of Israel. Sonthe monkswill.soon sid6 by side. They-are bidding eseh other
come t Let us recite the prayers for the farewell. The lady goes fbrth on the mo--

x"


158                  ' '  Tax FATAL-SBQRa       TS,
row atossuine the crown of-France, to wed  "Lionel, LiOel, risk not your lifedia -,
sadebauchedounloving husband'; the noble- perhaps vain endeavor. One man' against
mangto play a gimej, the mout fdtunate the-Inquisition. It is impossible that you
fisee of'which, beings safety-to-his brethten shouldsucoeed."
ind-death to hitaself, the loss of which kills  "I must:try.' If I fail
the congregation-"of Lisbon, but saves his  "You will -follow- me to France. The
own life. ,condition of the Hebrews there may be
"'We'stand at the grave of our hopes," improved - Lionel I follow me, aid I shall
said Don Lionel. J Let us adorn the bier be happy."  '.
with the fadeless flower of our love. See,  "Happy? Ah, Eleanora; thank you for
dearest, this withered orange branch was that word, Let'our thoughts hasten from
the first token of your love to me. In the these sorry contemplations, and look back
gardens 'of Vallhdolid, the little Spanish again to our youth.' I feel as, on the day
princess walked, followed at a distance by when Don Ferdinand and Donna Isabella
the loving page.  Then, Eleanora, you banished my-people from their. dominions.
stopped' beneath an old tree, and, plucking At that time, Eleanora, hadthey not been
this branch, pressed it to your lips, and thy' parents, they had died of poison! I
dropt it upon the ground, walking on."  was crazed with conflicting emotions.-Don
"And, -no ,sooner 'had I dropped the Ferdinand was the father of -Eleanora, my
branch,'? interrupted' the queen, with a protector and kind master, and the king
brighteaing face, "than you threw yourself whose hand dubbed me a knight. 'Donna
upon it and, unsheathing a dagger, slashed Isabella, your loied mother, was mysweet
your doubtlet on the left side, placed the and, gentle mistress,.my 'just andunoble
orange spray therein.  Oh, I remember queen, and the dame, whose. hand crowned
well ' It was a doubtlet of violet velvet. me in the tourneyiwhen Iworeher CastiHian
You always wore clothes of the same color!" colors. Both were the merciless oppressors
"Of'violet; It-is'the color of Israel. Not and butchers of my nation. Ah ! Isuffered
of Israel the captive, but of the strong. terribly, then"
joined warrior,,the glorious Hebrew of'Je-  "'Lionel, my father was the wisest of the
rusmalen."            '          '1 '.wise; my mother' the noblest of the 'noble.
S'AAh,' sighed Eleanora, "but half your The world knows that."
heart loves me !' Even now, when memory  Don-Lionel Dian was silent.
weeps over herwhithered white roses; when  "Dearest, can you-, not follow 'me to
the Joveodf a lifetime is about to be disap- France ?" again urged the Queen.,., ,
pointed in its sweet, unreasonable hopes,  "No, I remain in Lisbon. I must remain.
you think of Israel as of a nation already Farewell, my loVe. This parting-Is not pain.
lost to youI"l      '                  ful, since the presence of my, body has
, Dear' love, Fate has always either little to do with our love. We adore each
smiled on my love to 1 you, and , on my other's soul, and the souls may always meet.
devotion to Israel, or has darkened both Whenever you'think of me, I shall feel it,
together.. In my breasts you and Israel are and direct my thoughts to meet' your own.
interwoven,, knit together, and it seems that HappinessI-can not predict for thee, at the
Fate had coupled them also. -To morrow, French coort, unless thy sweet and noble
you go to Franoe-- my brethren are tried mind subdue even the licentious Fradcis,
and probably will beietenced."        and his crafty mother. -'But,' either in the
".an nothing be done? " inquired Elea- wild gayety of the court, or in the society of
nora who for the sake of Don Lionel almost his sweet sisters, you may. avert sorrow.
loved Israel.                          Think of meEleanora, and should .power
. "All that ean be done' will be. tried. If flow into your hands, use it to do justice to
Godblissmyrefforts, Iean set them at lib. that nation,.which. calls your Lionel her som
erty-'dcan save them."                 Farewell."

(I

On, PLOts AxNo .OOUNTanlLOTs.          159

'They embracod,.
.A'Lionel Iyou. will come'to France some
time9 that I may see you again," said the
Queen, as. the tears rolled fast down -her
"Never more will your eye behold me,
never more shall I hear your voice. Elea-!
norn, you go to France, I to - , no matter.
Farewell, my love; love me - oaearth, at
spring time, and in winter, in summer, and
in fall; love me in heaven, for all eternity.
L4ve,.as I love you-farewell, for ever."
He. clasped the Queen, in a last embrace,,
and then raised her fainting form in his
arms, and carried her through the long
secret passage, leading to the old tower of
Belem into her sleeping apartment, and
placed her, upon a couch. Retracing his
steps, he passed through the central cham-
ber, and out at the other end of the passage.,
. On the next day the daughter of Ferdi-
nand and Isabella, the widow of Emanuel
the Great, and the beloved of the Hebrew
prince, departed from Lisbon, to meet her
future husband, the King of France, upon
the borders of bis kingdom.
CHAPTER XL VI.
THE ESCAPE.
All of 'the Israelites had been hurried
through a short trial, and many of them con-
demned to the stake, some to be maimed
and imprisoned, and a few to penitence and
banishment. The goods of all, as a matter
of course, became the property of the King
and the Holy Tribunal. The Cardinal
Grand Inquisitor had deputed Pater Domin.
go, the secretary, to take possession of the
private property of the prisoners, and make
a list of it, for the benefit of the royal officers.
The. King had entrusted the execution of ta
favorite plan to the Cardinal, which thelat-
ter also placed under-Domingo's charges It
was, to distribute the children of the cog-
demoed New Christians on' various African
isles, where they might grow up without
knowledge of Judaism, and become pious
Christian settlers.,
Pater Domingo had attended to both these
commission. . Ships were. provided which
the Pater sewly manned, jn order, as he

y
.,;
r    ,;
y
:i

i

stated,to be sureof good and faithful execu,
tion of the royal andf nquisitional orders.-
For the character-of the new erewhe vouch.
ed.
They were drafted from various parts- of,
the Kingdom, and with;such celerity,that
four days after the trial of the Israelites,
each ship was.manned; the children of the
Israelites wrre placed on board of one ves-
sel, and their most valuable treasures on the
other. - The fist to be ,carried to 'African
Islands; the latter to be conveyed to the
King, who was journeying in the South of
Portugal. At that time, even more that
now, the conveyance by water was sonsueh
better and safer than by land, inPortugal,
that things of value and important were
generally sent -by ships. - Thereibre,-Pater,
Domingo acted'quite honestly in-freighting
a vessel with the confiscated treasures'of the
condemned Israelites.
Onthe evening of the day when they had
received their cargo, both vessels stood 'out
to sea. The Cardinal Gtand Inquisitor, in
very wtrin Wers, expressed his' thanks to
Pater Domingo for the dispatch'he had used.
There were two other vessels laying be-
hind the rocks of Cintra, in a small bay full
of dangerous eliffis and sandbanks,' which
seemed for some days past to b6waiting the
arrival of their cargo. The first was i ship
of Dutch make; at its side lay a smalletrone,
though also of considerable capacity' The
latter had great breath of beam, but a 'light
and easy build.
They lay at anchor in a bay, wherethey
could not be approached, but from which'
they could not emerge without- foundering,
unless the most skilful of pilots held-the
rudde. 'Around them were ragiagbreakers
and shallow sandbanks.
We return to the Palace of'the Oardinal
Grand Inquisitor, for thepurpose of osierv.
ing, Pater Domingo, a 'few moments. He
stands at a teble glittering with  obei of
crystal, silver, ana costly wood. Selectliig
a large one of silyer, worked in1iellY'lih
crosses, and representations. of 'the ldfter
"8,"~he proceeded carefully to*tipethe 14
side with a towel. Then' leaving 'draw' a
small case of tiny vials from  is pockettie,

I
r
7
i
t
r
i
i


16G
hoses ones and pourfo
brown powder into the gob]
teol istused to.rubthe po
inside of the cup. What re:
alway, for thetPater tul'ns th
cup downwards; andiaslakes
After he has seen that-the p
silver can not he noticed, hei
pon the table, and returned
to bis pocket,
On.the next daywhich; is
the'capture of the Israelites,
the Cardinal Savelli falls vei
clans and leeches .are sent
nunae is disease without
visa rest;;and abstinence fro
More than ever he had reas
lateshimelf on"the abilities ,
Eserythingis put into his
Cardinal retires to His cbar
tive orders not to be disturbs
-A new corps of fmiliars
tihse been forming under P
management. :They have a
#at vn y day.. TheCardina
fled of;it,an4d faintly whisper
"Istuirb nie, not. Pater
+g   ldte r D o m in g o  h a s .  p ro v i
weapons, amp ordered that
edumyg they should begin
g ua ding the Convent of Sal
1dfamiliars have, partly, be
the residence of Savelli, and
strueted to occupy a wing of
of the Inquitpn, which h
completed,.while themain1
unflni#e d., thus the convene
ieguarded by the new fami
their commander isP ter Do
rotary of the Inquisition.
It iseyeing. Dyck ninth
the ocean, duskin 'tIe fro

Tna    FATA     n A   foaATI'
m -it a, whitith ; The light disappears shodtingssillnal'keh
let. -Againi the over the white sails ofavessel far out at ea
wder upon' the -'The hazy obscurity has disappearedi and,'
mains is thrown circled by azure night, the goldeni' sta?-of
o mouth of'the love and eve, the sweet glowing Hesperuo,
it several times. rises aid' *atches on the crystal hill of
owder upon the heaven.--
replaces the cup - The cowl of the monk hat dropped ove*
the ase of vials his bi* and eyes. Eis form dilates. 'Ho
approaches the door., Ere he has reaeheds
the ninth aftr it, a thought seems to i-res1 his stbse'
His Excellency  "God, God, eternal and almighty, metci-
rysick. Physi- ful and just," he cries, throwiliimsetfp
for. They pro- on hii knees, and raising hi' arms aloft;
danger, but ad-I "Gd of aly soal ad. 'my race, aid, me !
m any busines.' Forsake noi thy servant,tAy devoted'serwitt
on to .congratu.. Forsake- n'd thy people; thy chosen onet
of his secretary. oh God, thou art Lord of Httvet and EAthy
hands, and the 'ahd the Disposer of fate I Tdrrirnot thy ftee
abers with posi' front me!"  '
sha for     ne -'In his earnest supplication the hoodjhad
ateasor ome'agdi fallenliack,and'the evening star'adsi-
'ater Domingro's               I,,          .
arrived in town led upon themonk's pure bro*.'  ft,-for l
'          moment he knelt'there in -profondsileno..
hsbeen oeClang, Tang        cried t  bell of tfielente V
D        Illbeginning to strikteight,
With the words, "hasteI haste !" the
ded the 'h Pater arose, 'and'leaving the apartment ap-
, on them with proached the prisons.
their ty y IAccompany me, and open the doors as
their ,uty by we proceed," ordered Dotmingo to one of the;
nta Crur4,,,The fmlas
een removed to      an.
partly been in- .Itwsdn,
ptleen pt.a Other familiars unlocked the chainsofthe
as already been prisoners. At Pater Domingo's comand
builrady been the nen were led into the upper apartineati
t of Santa Cruz, of the convent, and provided with the *6a '
.oS       r   ons and dark unifornis of Inquisitorial fa-
hars alone, and   .    T      d               -
lirsong , and- mliars. The ladies werepkaded in refdy'
,mingo, the-sec-Ta
sedans,-well secured and carried by the menl
Scity, dusk on They arranged themselves in the soeutyaid
wning convent of'the onvent.' The troop of familiars newv-
b I  ig -Is - ly orghnised-by Patei Domigo encloed the
iy   'A64 blal diigoi'd prisoners, *h' arriedtheirladie4
:glory, it, pdurs every side. They wereallread.taissue
handsome bugj forth-a half past'eldien.
mngo. He' is "We will watt ntil'twelve," said rather
window, lost in Domingo.
i eyes and regal  The priest hadbeet'indefatigable'in his'
t) hide beneath deertions toatanige 'every thing pr'perly,
'to' instruct and helpevery one."' iJ *0

OP, PLOTS iAl 'No"'N            nLoT    .-Ie
6it ghhai agney,ethanks to hit, thatthey lay  little diteahe "blW",itholbty ' n
were ena"led to get ready in so'shortaitim. them the fugitives, ttfr ii th'the lter,
Hen*o made'a sign for silence ; not a sound corps of familiars, embarined,
was heard. All eyes were upon him.       Father Domingo had manfined-so' *ill
"Dear brothers," he said softly and calmly, that the sailors of the vessels birrying the
"you may be uneasy about your children ? " children and the treasure of tiie lsatiiAeff
A half stifled sigh from the ladies was were Hebrews. They hdd beeti'ordered iiy
tie only reply.                       hi-m to carry both to Amsterdam, and weie
" I have embarked them and sent them on on the way already. The two othe ihips,
to Amsterdam, under good careI " continued one of ,which was Captain Sporaio's, were"
the priest.                            also manned by Hebrew sailors. The neW'
A cry of joy rewarded this intelligence.  corps of fauihilirsis, as the reader willtiready
"And again you may be uneasy about have suspected, was chiefly composed of Is-
your wealth and treasures, my brothers.- raelites from all parts of Portugal, desitis
For to arrive in a strange land without means of emigrating and escaping. Soon as All
is a cheerless prospect."              were on boaid both ships ishade hate to 'et
"A dark cloud upon the faces of the men out into the open sea. The sails werei-s'pyrdd
replied to this. to the feeble breeze, and aided by 'the ebb,
"You can laugh at this care also. Your good headway was made.' It was' thxe
treasures have been sent on to Amsterdam, o'clock era they could start, for thus long it
where you will find sufficient to begin life took to get the fugitives on board.
anew. Let me advise you, with the sword  Scarcely were they'fairly in motion, when
and plume to lay aside the high chivalric pater Domingo signed to a familiar behind
actions and thoughts of sunny Portugal.- him, who had, with four others, carried large
Turn to the tradesman's counter-other em. bundles. They unrolled them and the white
ployment is not open to the Hebrew. But shrouds taken from the Israelites on New
in Holland you will enjoy the inestimable Year's night were disclosed.
privilege of professing your faith, your reli- "It is the night of atonement," said Pater
gion. HarkI it is twelve o'clock. Let us Domingo; "let each assume his shroud.
proceed to the vessel. Let all observe the It was quickly done.
deepest silence."'                       Aaron Rodow began his chant by seven
A murmur arose and rolled among the times raising and dropping his voice. Soon
crowd.                                 all were lost in prayer.
" What is it?" inquired the Pater.    It was near morning ere the evening prag-.
"Don Lionel Dian, our prince, where is ers were finished. Pater Domingo stepped
lie" every one inquired. "He must be up to Don Enrique da Costa and whispered
sved. The royal blood of David may not something into his ear. .The young man
perish."                               grew pale, and began in a loud voice t6 1-
"He is already in safety," replied Father cite the prayer of remembrance of the dead.
Domingo.                               The congregation listened awestruck; the 0
"I see not my brother," whispered En- mother and sister of Enrique fainted. They
ride.                          '      all now knew that Hernando had been ee-
"tu'rry on. I thought of him. Ere cuted. Across the waves floated Enrique's
you depart I will give you tidings of Her- mournful voice, chanting the "itadish9" td'
mando da CostaI'a                      the memory, of his dead brother. And the
The convent gates were opened and the congregation answered, "'Amen, amen!"'
train proceeded to move out.  Slowly, it  They were opposite the rock of Ointra slow,
crept through the strews of Lisbon, unques. and Pater Domingo said:
tioned, unc allenged. The ships which had "CaptainI give me a boat to return on
been conceled behind the cliffs of Cintra shore. Further I need not, further I can
id the rock bay, had moved away and now not accompany you."
21

Ili

16-1


-                     .I  Ta    FATAL     S    Eac ants
Therewas an exqlsmationof astonishment.  "If you return, we will accompany yo,"
!!.Can'you return without danger!" in-. cried many men of the congregation.
quired Rabbi Lamuel.                     "Friends, brothers, leave me!" replied,
"I return to die," was the answer.   the serious voice of Don Lionel: "Let me
"But why not accompany us ?  You are return to my duty, without hindrance on
a84  raelite like ourselves.'"         your part. I know what I must do. Naught
"Because I must keep your pursuers off but the voice.of God can, therefore, alter my
for a time. All danger is not yet passed.- resolve. Farewell to you all! If in Holland
Urge me not; I return to Lisbon."  This you hear of my death,-mourn me,-remem.
was said'so firmly that none dared to urge her me-recite the "Kadish" for my depart.
the subject further.                   ed soul. I have no children, no brothers---
"But,who are ye, our benefactor and pro- but the son of David has the right to claim
teetor ! Whom shall we remember in our the sorrow of all Israel, at his death. Once
prayers?" inquired Enrique. "A priest more fare ye well."
you can not be."                         The young men still lingered in the boat,
The Pater was silent for a moment, and Don Lionel frowned.
then.cried:                              "We are your knights, and it would be
"-Bring quick a basin of water!"     cowardice to desert you," said Enrique,plead.
It was brought.                      ingly.
Emptying a vial of red fluid into the wa-  "If ye lay claim to the title,know that obe.
ter, the priest washed his face for a few mo- dience is the first duty of the knight," was
ments, then  rying it with a towel, for the the reply. "1  command you to return to
first time in sight of the Israelites, threw the vessel."
back his cowl. The pale moonshine fell full  The order was silently obeyed. The boat
on his features.      .                put Don Lionel on shore, and the ships
"Oun PnimcE!" was the astonished ex- catching the fresh breeze, swept over the,
elamation of all.                      waves grandly and merrily, like things of
It was, in fact, Don Lionel Dian.  He life. Their white sails gleamed, and a long
turned his eyes upward and said, solemnly: rolling furrow of foam tumbled in their wake.
"God bless you on the way and in your  The Israelites on baard looked back ea.
new homes. May the Lord preserve ye I- gerly long as they could see that proud high.
May the Lord make his face shine unto ye! form in dark monastic robes stand upon the
and be gracious unto ye! May the Lord summit of a rock jutting into the sea.
lift up his face unto ye and give ye peace!  The morning sun rose and poured a halo'
--Oh David, glorious sireI smooth the of scarlet and flame upon that high proud
waves of the sea before them with the pow. form, and hung golden strings upon the
er of thy song. Defend them with thy he trembling sea waves, and cut, with fiery
role sword, protect them with thy star-like swords, the still morning air. Then the lof.
shield I " Tears streamed from Don Lio- ty-minded Hebrew Prince turned and, de-
nel's eyes and with a silent motion, lie again spending froin the rock, disappeared behind,
drew the cowl over his face, stretched his green trees and verdant shrubs.
hand, once more,toward the weeping Israel-  But the Israelites still looked back, looked
sites, and sprang into the ready boat. Five back upon vividly green hills bright in the'
or si young men immediately sprang after morning sun, upon the white flowers that
him, while the whole congregation hurried like pearls girded their sides, upon the glossy
to the side of the vessel.             orange trees, and the wide spreading chest.-
We will not leave you I." cried the nuts, upon the glittering shore and the broad
young men clinging to Don Lionel's clothes. blue river.- Upon the land of Portugal.-
"Royal prince, we are thy: knights," said They looked back upe the land which con-
Enrique da Costa, "we will fly it you, or tained their ancestors' graves,. their own
defend you to the last drop of our blood." homes, the scenes of their youth and happi~

'I

On, PLOTs AND COUNTERPLOTS.
ess-upon their bright Southern fatherland pace, on and on, still 9s
the land of the olive and.vine,the orange and In this way he soon ar
fig tree, the land which, in its beauty, seem- proceeded directly to th(
ed like fair, glorious Palestine, flowing with  The cells and courtya
milk and honey. Farewell! to the glowing familiars. All was in(
South, with its orange groves, almond trees, fusion. The escape of
with its olive-clad hills and sunny vales, with the disappearance of th
its vine-crowned mountains and sparkling iars, were known alrea
streams. Farewell! to the brilliant life of was, therefore, received
the soldier, the statesman, and the author;  He motioned silence,
farewell to the wealth and privileges of no- his horse, walked calml,
bility. In Spain, in Portugal, what Hebrew of frowning, but still re
pocts and bards and troubadours had tuned the great audience hall o
their golden lyre and sung their thrilling the Cardinal Savelli, s
stanzas! What Hebrew statesmen had sat with fury, had caused h
in the council of Kings and rulers 1 'What  "Ah, senor," he crie
Hebrew  sages had explored science and and bent a look of conc
wrung the highest knowledge from night a. the priest. "Will you
bor and observation. What brave Hebrew you have done and wh
soldiers had wielded the sword against the the Holy Inquisition ar
Moor and the Indian!                   "I will make it all
And, away from these now ! To a land nence. But first, letr
of mists and coldness, a land won from the conimotion and noise,
sea, a land of trade, of labor, of calculation; confusion?  What hasI
away from the battle, the lyre, the council  "What has happene
and the court - to the counter, to the shop, stamping with wrath.1
to the wrestle of cunning, to the battle for a is exactly what you shal
few silver coins.                       servants to the convent
Away from-a bright future, to a destiny mon you to my bedside.
whose happiness consists of enough to eat, vent deserted. I call th
and a pipe of tobacco over; whose joy is a order the familiars to go,
glass of schnapps, and whose aim is to pro- is in fact deserted. Th
vide for existence, bare existence, or perhaps caped. The new corps
even to get rich.                       ished.  I hasten myse
Thus, the Israelites thought, felt, as they rage. I question the-
east the last fond look at Portugal, the sunny street spies. They have
land, and then threw themselves upon the of familiars with Pate
deck in a passion of tears; screamed, cried, head pass through the i
raged in terrible agony, as if diamond chains Nothing further is kn
held their hearts to the loved soil.    will you inform me of w
Not a man, not a woman amongst them, Remember, your life voi
who at - that moment had not preferred a oner escaped. Will you
grave in Portugal, the golden land, to a home you done ?"
in Holland.                               "First let me know
-                     tracked me to the place,
CHAPTER         XL VII.           familiars ?"
THE GRAND INQUISITOR,                "Audacious! IIask y
Father Domingo had possessed himself of or shall the rack make y
the first horse he met near the cliffs of tion with more respect?
Cintra. It happened to be a very 'good    Domingo thrpw an une
steed. The priest urged it to its most rapid do*, and then said-.

ids
purring and driving.
rived in Lisbon, and
e Santa Cruz convent.
yards were alive with
commotion and con--
f the prisoners, and
e new corps of famil-
dy. Pater Domingo
with a loud shout.
, and alighting from
y through the row s
speetful familiars, to
f the convent, where
till sick, but raging
imself to be carried.
d, " here you are!1'"
entrated anger upon
please explain, what
ere the prisoners of
re ?"
clear to your Enai-
me know, why this
why this anger and
happened ?"
d?" cried Savelli,
'What has happened
1 explain. I sent my
an hour rgo, to sum-
They find the con-
hem fools, idiots, and
there. The convent
e prisoners haye es-
of familiars has v n.
elf here, mad  ith
night servants  d
e seen the new corps
r Domingo at their
treets,but of the city.
own.   Now, senor,
what you have done?
inches for every pris.
a speak ? What have
whether your spids
where I led the now
ou; Will you reply,
rota treat my ques-
saay look at the win-

Z)


t

1104                      Tvs FAT
"You zteed have no apprehension on ac-
eopnt of theprisoners and the new familiars
Thpy ere all properly cared for. I am re-
epgnsible for them."
"And yo are responsible to me, senor.-
-Begly to ;ne, whereto, have you conducted
the fargiliars, where are the prisoners?'
Pppiingo listened for a moment to the ap-
proaching rumble of several carriages, and
then replied:
" I will answer to the proper authorities,
go those that have a right to question. You,
Senor,--" here he stepped to the window,
and glAnced out, "You, senor, must answer
to the ArchbishopGrand Inquisitor of Spain,
for the authority, title and state assumed
unauthorised, for the forgeries committed."
Savelli turned pale and a livid hue rose to
his lips and encircled his eyes.,
" What is this?" he stammered.
But at that moment the doors were thrown
open, and while a lackey announced noisily:
"His Eminence the Lord Grand Inquisi-
tor of Spain,
"His highness the Count of Ildemonte,"
two gentlemen entered the apartment. One
a priest, the other a soldier. Domingo step-
ped toward them, and pointing to the pale
nd trembling man, in the ivory chair said,
scornfully:
",His Eminence the Cardinal Savelli."
The soldier who was no other than the
Count of Ildemonte, immediately laid his
4Wpd on Savelli's shoulder, and said:
"Iazpest you in the name of the emperor."
Savelli sprang from his chair, as if a ser-
pep had stung him. Immediately the Grand
Inquisitor then began:
"I arrest you, in the name of the holy
tribunal.'.'-
At the words of the Grand Inquisitor,
Savelli stamped his, foot, and uttering a cry,
like that of a wild beast when frightened and
enraged, cowed down and slunk back before
the three, conipsanding figures opposite to
him. But this was only in the first moments,
bpn; srprise and terror, as the terrible
WeXde cf arrest thundered on hisear, had al-
most bereft him of his senses,. Savelli was
#0a, cqward. On the.contrary, he was bold
and resolute, The surprise of the moment,

&amp;L ,S1CORET,
- only, overwhelmed him with damning char.
. ges, had stunned, his courage.
-  He recovered himself in part. And, the
consciousness, that boldness only could give
- him safety at least for the present, as well
as the perception of the ridiculous posture,
he occupied, in relation to the other persons
present, served to revive all his courage, and
even to stimulate it by shame. Erecting his
body and lifting his head with anger, bright
eye and flushed cheek, he stepped several
paces forward, and said:
"Inquisitor General of Spain, I know you,
and your proud arrogance well! But here,
I am Inquisitor General, instituted by the
Holy Father, recommended by the Emperor,
and accepted by the King of Portugal. Who
gives you the right to use such expressions
to me. How shall. I understand your beo
havior, how interpret your words?"
" This pride is not in its place, man," re-
plied the Inquisitor.
" We have assurances by his Holiness
that he has entrusted you with no mission.
We have letters from the Emperor. He also
has given you no recommendation. The
King of Portugal you have deceived. But
we have sent messengers to him and his
highness will yet arrive in time to judge
yout offenses. You have committed heinous
offenses. Forgery amongst them."'
"You have committed high treason against
Carplo V, Emperor of Germany and King
of Castile and Arragon. I arrest you in his
name."
"I protest against these proceedings, my
Lord Grand Inquisitor of Spain! My Lord
Count of IldemonteI I am a Cardinal, a
member of the holy college, and as such only
responsible to the head of Christendom. No
prince, no prelate can call me to account."
" WE call you to account. Increase not
your offense by obstinate pride. You are a
scoundrel, senor, a rascal, mean as the dirt
beneath my feet; I will not soil my fair
manners, by further converse with you.-
That you have committed forgery, and -as-
sumed a character not proper to ,you, that
you have swindled thenobles, and defrauded
the King of Portugal, has been sufficiently
proved already in the courts of the Holy

I.

I

Or, PLOTS AND
Tribunal of Spain, and those of worldly jus-
tice.  Nothing, then, remains, but to pro-
oounce sentence on you, and to execute it.
You are a convicted criminal already. Here
I have letters from Rome, here the Imperial
ordersI No.link in the evidence is wanting.
The chain-of guilt is complete. Had King
Juan appointed you Inquisitor, it might have
been a partial shield to you; but, Cardinal
Savelli pretended to bear his office from the
Holy Father. Senor, thank me for the grace
to make this clear to you." Thus spoke the
Spanish Count.
Savelli's features again fell, and paled be-
fore this plain and crushing recital of his
guilt, his helplessness, his fall.
"Senors," he cried in a. piteous voice,
"whatever you have against me, have I not
founded the Inquisition in Portugal, not
spread the power of the Church and Holy
Tribunal? Deserve I not consideration on
that account?"
The Count of Ildemonte was struck by
this argument, and cast a doubtful hesitating
look at his companion.
Savelli observing it, continued: " My fall
will be the fall of the Institution I founded.
Let me, therefore, prevail, for its sake. Nay,
senors, peacably ye can not possess your-
selves of me, in the midst of my familiars,
and the city that honors and admires me,-
I will resist, if you attempt it."
The Count said to the SpanishGrand In-
quisitor:
" Perhaps his objections merit some con-
sideration. The Holy Tribunal must not
suffr."I
" The Inquisition will remain. But its
head may not be impure and corrupt. It
will flourish under manner white, pure and
just. Not under the flag.of a cheat."
With this he sounded a small string of
steelen crosses depending from his girdle.-
Four Spanish familiars, that had accompa-
nied the Grand Inquisitor entered. Savelli
attempted to strike his rattle, and summon
his attendants. But father Domingo pre-
vented him. In a few moments he was bound
and gagged. He would have cried, but a
hood had been thrown over his head from
the first. Domingo opened a secret door,

GOU N TE R PLOTS. .
and theCardinal was taken away, while the
Inquisitor General of Spain took possession
of his apartments and papers.
The King had arrived in town that morn-
ing. In the forenoon yet, reports of Savelli's
deceit, the escape of the Israelites, which
leaked out quickly, and the disappearance of
the vessel with the confiscated treasures
reached him. He was convinced by this
that treachery had been at work and laid it
to Savelli's charge.
Meanwhile he sent three fast sailing ves-
sels, well armed with cannons, and manned
by marines after the fugitives, whose vessels
had been observed. at Belem and the coast.
The Cardinal's deceit, making him the ridi-
cule of all Europe rankled him most. He
was almost maddened by it. Some time af-
ter, at Savelli's trial, the King revenged hini-
self by sentencing the pretended Cardinal
and Grand Inquisitor, to ten years -service
as a galley slave. The proud adventurer
was, in the sight of Lisbon, chained to the.
galley bench.  Verily, the vengeance of
Kings is terrible.
CHAPTER R        XLV III .
ATONEMENT      ON   THE   SEA.
On sped the two vessels, with the Israelites
on board, still they were but slowly making
headway. Let us turn to the larger of the
two, Captain Sporaso's vessel, for there are
the persons that interest us most.
All are in white shrouds. Their faces
white and pale as the rumpled garments.
For food has not passed their lips since the
evening before. It is the day of atonement,
a day of fasting and prayer, a day of eon-
trition and purifying of sins, a day when
earth is thrown off, and the soul climbs one
more step towards heaven.., Thiqday, the
fugitives neglect not in their flight; they
keep it holy, thrice holy, because occurring
at such an eventful period.
The prayers have floated with the ocean
breeze over th  calm surface of the sea.
Aaron Rodow, cantor! thy voice rose in pow-
er, and in enthusiastic passion, and was
heard by the white seabirds and-the splashy
waves, the listening breezes, and the golden
winged angels! Israelites, driven, fromyour

I

'1

'1


Tuii} rAiL.SBcR~r,

homes!   The whispered supplications of He had been wearied by the long and awe'
jour palpitating hearts, your praying souls, inspiring prayers of the fast day, been ex-
rose to the great heart of God, in his heaven haunted by the fast, which he kept till noon
of mercy,justice and love? IA pause is made. time, and in vain searched for a sympathis-
The prayers of noon have been offered up, ing glance, a kind look or word, from the
and the sun has not declined sufficiently to serious men, atoning for their sins, on board
begin those of the afternoon. The men on the vessel.  Yet with them he must stay
one side of the quarterdeck, the ladies on and further endure the prayer and cere.
the other, rest exhausted, with weakened mony, monotonous and useless as they
features from the fast, but eyes bright with seemed to his childish understanding.
the holy influence within. The wind sings Now, his dark eye lights up with glad-
merrily.                                nets. A young man has observed him, and,

Let, us look at some of these men in
shrouds, flying from their homes, their loved
Portugal.
Before the mast, in calm silence, sit a
dignified and reverend line of aged men.
Here and there a younger nne amongst them
too. They observe strict silence, and some
are even praying in whispers. The one with
the high stately figure, and long beard, is
Rabbi David de Lara. On either aide of
him, lost in contemplation are the Rabbis,
Isaac Aboab* and Mose Abudiente. The
first a thin figure, with grandly vaulted
brow, and small sharp eyes, the latter a
younger man with black curling beard and
large dreaming features. Rabbi Mose Ra
phael do Aguilar, a proud figure, and one of
Portugal's wisest and highest nobles, who
left castles and domains, and bright honors
behind, walked up and down before them,
reciting prayers ia the voice of the mind
and heart. His lips move; but no sound
Is heard I Rabbi Israel Pereira and Franko
Lerrano, are glancing forward upon the
ocean, and Enrique de Costa is standing
smith Levi de Barrios and Joseph do Vega
looking back, back upon the rock bound
shores of Portugal. The calm noonday sky
smiles down on them, and only the whirr of
swelling sails breaks upon the silence of ex-
haustion and awe.
There is but one child on this vessel, a
boy of about ten years, who had by' his
sweet prayers won Pater Domingo's con-
sent to share his father's dungeon, who had
been liberated with him, and was on the
-esel, which bore his parents to Holland.
* Author of the Hebrew Minorath Hamoar.

with beaming smile beckons the tired boy
He runs to him, and in spite of horrified
looks, the young man lifts the boy to hits
breast and kisses him. He speaks to him.
"You are tired and weary?"
"Yes, senor, very much j" the boy re-
plies.
"But you ought not to tire of praying."
"It is true; my father, says so;" replied
the boy. "But I should like--?
"What? speak what you think "
Father says, God is every where. Now
I should like better to pray to God when he
is in the sky or sea, than when he is in the
prayer book. Would not you, senor?"
The young man smiled and said:
"Perhaps. But, to the God in the human
heart, more yet. There boyI your father
approaches. He beckons to you."
" He is angry because I talked on the day
of atonement. Good bye."
The boy leaped from the young man's
lap, and returned to his father, a man of
powerful frame and striking features. They
sat down on the other side of the vessel.-
Who was the boy? Who was the young
man I The boy was Baruch de Spinosa,
the young man Uriel Acosta.
Rabbi Isaac Aboab, long remembered
them, the talk they dared to have on the
holy day of atonement. Uriel A costa look"'
ed dreamily into the sea, and on the snowy
foam. The boy Baruch buried his h'ad in
a mighty prayer book, and while conning
over, and pronouncing supplications in He.
brew and Chaldaic, thought of the beautiful
God in the wide sea and glowing sky.
Ships are seen at the verge of the horizon.
Three distant tiny specks, up6n the pure

,.

167

ether that seems to oonneet sea and sky.
Like lightning the news flies through the
vessel, and chills the hearts of all. It seem.
ed as if with a simultaneous electric shock,!
the fatal sight had drawn every eye to it,
rather than that one had whispered it to the
other, from the captain down. The cry arose,
from the mast head:
"Sails, in sight!"
The :captain reconnoitered through his
telescope. Every one crowded around him,
breathless with anxiety.
"Vessels from the King's navy;, they
hang out every rag of sail, in our pursuit,"
announced Captain Sporaso.
"Adonai Elohim help us!" cried the ter-
rifled multitude.
"1To prayer! it is time," proclaimed the
sonorous voice of Aaron Rodow, who, heed'
less of circumstances, attended only to his
duties.
And from terror and anxiety, from the
waves of fear that surged around, that holy
-call snatched them, snatched them  away
from consciousness of danger, and brought
them to God, the God, to whom they, this
day, atoned for their sins. The pursuing
ahips, the angry Inquisition, thQ. sorrow and
trouble of earthly life were as wiped away
from each mind by that call to the service
of God.*
The prayer, the song recommenced. The
forms were bent, the white woollen prayer
scarfs, with long fringes, drawn over each
head, and the young, the fair, together with
the aged and deformed, all clad in ghostly
shrouds, rocked and swayed to and fro, in
the intensity and passion of prayer.
And the murmuring sea, accompanied
the hymns and the psalmody. The mighty
organ of the ocean woke its sweet sounds
and rich tunes, to waft those prayers aloft.
And through the air of cerulean blue,
above the tangled silver cloudlets, the
hymns and sounds rose, beyond the golden
sun and the stars, and fiery comets, beyond
*Perhaps some will opine that this is over-
drawn. Such know not the deep piety of the
Portuguese Israelites. Neither do they know
the entire devotion with which a nation, long
deprived of divine service, celebrates it, and
the firm trust they repose upon it.

the walls of space and time, beyond the
boundaries of thought, to the grand mys-
terious Source of all.
Behold I REAsoN has limits that admit of
no overstepping.  The elevations of the
.EART are unconfined. Its regions are lint-
itless even to visiting the Mystery of God.
'Che heart is more powerful than reason.
Te philosophy of the heart grander than
that of mind.
Captain Sporaso, however, was less en-
thusiastic concerning these religious ser-
vices, and the Dutch sailors of his vessel
cared nothing at all about it, since they
were for the greater part Protestants. So
this brave captain gave orders and h's men
set all sails that would draw. Thus the
ship proceeded at a very good rate through
the water. In fact she sped like- a hawk,
but the three royal ships pursued her like
eagles.
If you had been there, you immediately
would have seen that the Israelites could not
escape the Inquisition, and that in so many
hours the royal hips must come up with
Sporaso's vessel, and the small schooner at
its side, since their rate of sailing was much
more rapid. You would also have seen that
the pursuers did not exert themselves very
much, while the other vessels were doing
their utmost and crowded on sail by sail, to
catch each breath of wind.
The wind blew steadily and briskly from
the South East.
, Sporaso's vessel endeavored to go N. N
W., and, therefore, was almost driven before
the wind. The others in pursuit having
the same direction, had also the same advan-
tage of the breeze.
"They will reach us by the time night
comes, said Sporaso.  Escape by flight is
impossible."
The boatswain Joseppo proposed:
"Let us approach the shore. We may
cautiously venture into shallow water where
they can not follow. At night we may, per.,
haps, escape under cover of the darkness."
"A good thought indeed," cried the cap-
tain; "Joseppo you have won a new jacket
by tis advice."
"Thanks, senor," replied the gratified boat-
swain.

166

Ube PLQ'Ts IND COUzsvRssLOTs.

.11

/

HF
f
1
f
i1
f1,
s
s
1+
{
J
s
f
t


Oa, PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS.      169

The captain called his lieutenant.
" Vai Utlopp, it is not possible to escape
from these vessels, by holding on our pres-
ent course."
"Nein, Mynheer."
"Do you know of any plan to elude their
pursuit."
"Nein, Mynheer."
"Then, listen. Along the shore for seve-
ral miles above Cape Caroveiro stretches a
range of sandbanks and breakers out into
the sea."
e "Yah, Mynheer."
" If we make way for it they'll think to
have us sure. The breakers in front, they,
behind. We shall be lost then in reality."
"Nein, Mynheer."
"Why not, Van Utlbpp?"
"Why not, Mynheer ?"
"Aye, why not?   There is a road for a
ship right through the breakers and sand-
banks. Do you mean that?"
" Yah, Yah, Mynheer."
"At thisI was hinting. But do you know
that it is the most difficult thing in the world
to prevent a ship perishing there. The way
runs around and between the most hideous
rooks, crooked, bending, turning at many
points. Who will pilot us-through this ? I
have some knowledge of the strait, but far
too little to attempt pilotage there. Yet thii
isour only chance of escape. Who will pilot
us ?
" Ha, ha, ha, very good.  A  fine joke,
Mynheer."
' "A joke? Alas, not. What mean you,
Van Utlopp ?"
" Why I will pilot you through it, yab,
yah, Mynheer."
The captain, in excess of joy, almost em-
braced his fat Dutch lieutenant.
" You can do it ?" he cried.
"Yah, Yah, I can, Mynheer."
Sporaso knew that upon each of the lieu-
t6nant'swords implicit trust might be set, as
-regardedsea matters. He hesitatedno more.
The vessels approached the coast. The
smaller one immediately ran for a shallow
basin opening in the shore, whence the royal
ships on account of their heavy draught
could not follow. But Sporaso's vessel, turn-

ed in a slightly northerly direction, and
bore immediately down upon the breAers.
There they extended, far out into the sea, a
long line of hissing foam kind angry waves.
They seemed a sno  patch upon the darker
surface of the sea.
A continuation of jagged, movie or les
prominent rocks, interspersed with high
heaped sandbanks, and deep whirlpool pits,
formed this bar, so dangerous to the unskil-
ful mariner. The vessel was bearing right,
down on these breakers to the evident anx-
iety of all on board. The captain, howev-
er, knew this was the only chance of escape
from their pursuers, and also knew the ea-
quisite skill of his lieutenant.
Van Utlopp had ordered most sails to be
taken in, he had put the seamen in readiness
duly spirited, and prepared, that his slight-
est orders might be executed immediately,
and properly. He made them understand,
that if the ship failed only once to obey his
direction, that if they hesitated but once to
execute any duty, however dangerous, the
next moment would find them struggling for
life amongst the breakers. Thus all was
ready for the attempt to sail through the
narrow passage, the terrors of which all felt
end had heard of, but which none perhaps,
except the captain and lieutenant had made.
Let the reader impress the circumstances
on his mind as I will present them now.
The three royal ships were coming down
with spread sails on Sporaso's vessel; they
had gained very much on the latter through
superiority of sailing, as well as by the alter-
ed course across their track which it assum-
ed. The smaller companion was hidden in the
shallow basin extending inland. And the
vessel itself was cautiously,slowly but surely
approaching the roaring and foaming break-
ers ahead. The sun about to set. The wind
dying. The prayers of Atonement about to,
cease.
" There will be a storm, Mynheer t" said
the lieutenant.
" Aye ; the sun sets in a vivid green sky. I
do not like the banks of clouds in the South
West. We will probably have a storm from
that quarter."
"Yah, Mynheer."

TIB  LATA'L  9BCItET,;

"It must not break loose before we have
passed the breakers, else we might be lost,
Van Utlopp."
' We might, Mynheer."
"However, the cats' paws, which already
stretch the sails, will be advantageous to
drive us through."
. We must have them, Mynheer."
We have no other wind."
"Yah, Yah, Mynheer. Let me go to the
rudder." And Van Utlopp, went to steer
the vessel through the dangerous pass, for
already, within a few cables length the foam
boiled, and the ugly rocksgrinned above the
sea. Each seaman was at his post. The
ship was ready for the encounter. And all
this time the Israelites, unconscious of ought
else had been praying, singing and worship.
ping. Unconscious of their great danger, of
the attempt-to escape, of the glory which the
setting sun poured over sea and s'ky, and of
the hissing breakers threatening ahead, they
worshipped, atoned. Now the last procla-
mation of the high day rose on the evening
air. The proclamation of purified hearts,
joyful souls, of beings at peace and in love
with their maker, of creatures adoring their
God.
"Hear, oh Israel, the Lord thy God is
One!" cried Aaron Rodow.
" Hear, oh Israel, the Lord thy God is
One," responded the hoarse voices of the
congregation.
-" The Lord, he is God !" and seventimes
Aaron Rodow proclaimed it, with sevenfold
response from the congregation. And as
the last  *1
"ADONAI Hu EwoHin,"
swept over the waves, the half disappeared
sun, once more seemed to rise, and a flood
of golden light was poured over those earnest
men in white shrouds, and those snowy-at-
tired ladies, The sky once more lighted up,
and the golden gates of heaven seemed to
open in the West. A moment after, and
darkness extinguished the bright colors on
the sea and sky.
And over the waves was borne the voice
of the cornet, as it sounded the call:
"To your tents, oh Israel" 
The day of Atonement had expired. The
prayer ceased, the fast was broken.

0CH.APTER XLIX.
THROUGH THE FOAMING BREAKERS.
A dark nightit was; unusually dark. But
the white foam that indicated the hidden
rocks, and fringed the more projecting, was
plainly visible through the darkness. The
ship had entered the passage.
The royal vessels lay to. They were sure
that the fugitives could not escape during
the night. For the land behind, the break-
ers before them, and the three vessels with
their attentive watches forming an impassa-
ble cordon on the side toward the ocean;
how could they fly. It was a thing of im-
possibility, a good joke to think so-imagin-
ed the royal captains. As for the passage
through the breakers, not one pilot out of
fifty was able to make it, and certainly none
would attempt it, at night, and in an ap-
proaching storm. It was, therefore, a settled,
a sure thing, a absolute fact that Sporaso's
vessel and the flying Israelites were corner-
ed, were caught as if in a mouse trap.
And among the breakers, the vessel dart-
ed, like an eager warrior. On each side,
curling wreaths of foam stretched in long
rows, and wound in tangled lines. Only
where the vessel had entered, a dark furrow
marked the passage. At the helm, stood
Lieutenant Utlopp, the captain at his side.
The countenance of the Dutch sailor, but
now so insignificant and flat, seemed to rouse
and grow intelligent, grow sublime, with the
emergency. The dull eyes flashed, the hea-
vy mouth assumed a noble expression.-
Lieutenant Van Utlopp was a changed be-
ing. He seemed lord of the waves, and a
champion arisen to combat their fury.
" The storm will soon begin," said the
captain.
"Yah, Mynheer; in an hour."
"The breeze is already quite strong."
"Yah, Mynheer. Too strong for us."
He raised his head a little, and eried in
a calm, distinct voice:
" Reef the mainsail, reef closely."
The order was executed, and the ship's
speed immediately abated. Now a comb of
jagged cliffiets barred the passage. The
vessel bore directly down upon them, and, it
seemed as if the next moment would spike

1.

fi
f
7
tit
r
i
-1
.
,'
,

X4 1
I


170               THa FATAL SEcRET,

it, a wreck,upon the rocky points. Enrique,
whose anxiety drove him to the rudder,cried:
"We are lost!1 God of Mercy I "
"Nein, Mynheer," replied the lieutenant,
with his strong arm turning the rudder, and
wearing the ship several points round, so
that it passed within the shortest possible
distance of the rockb, and turned into the
curve of the passage.
Now they seemed about to be thrown on
the breakers,then topush into smooth curling
water above sandbanks. Every moment al.
terations were made in the course of the ves-
sel, toadapt it to the tortuous passage. The
lieutenant seemed a giant moving the ship
hither and thither, by his short quick com-
mands, as if it were a toy of his leisure--
The captain stood at his side lost in admira-
tion and anxiety.
The storm had also. risen. Loud and
blustering, furious, it swept over the open
sea and rolled huge billows inland, and
dashed them to mist upon the rocks and ser-
rated shore. The ship could scarcely main-
tain herself. There wascontinual danger of
her being thrown upon the rocks. The sails
were all close reefed. Still, the waves, the
wind, might at any moment, strike her for-
cibly upon the side, and, with irresistible
power sweep her upon the cliffs.
However, the end of the passage was near.
Through the breakers they-were already.-
But, where they emerged, a long rocky point,
sharp and foam-fringed stretched far out
from the land into the sea. It was, in fact,
a sharp, dangerous tongue, which, in the
form of an eagle's beak, the convex side turn-
ed to the South, formed the upper boundary
of the breakers. Around the point of this
the vessel must pass, with the storm blowing
almost directly into its teeth.
It was hard work; but the good ship, un-
der command of its lieutenant, managed it
well. When they had almost reached the
point Van Utlopp commanded:
"Be ready to throw out the top sails."
Several sailors manned the shrouds.-
Scarcely had the point of the cliff been reach-
ed, when the vessel was worn, and at the
lieutenant's command, the topsails were un-
furled.

A moment's expectation-a heavy strain-.
a bending forward of the vessel -and the
point was made, the ship was on the other
side. A sharp, short crack, like the explo-
sion pf a pistol followed almost immediately.
The topsails were torn from the yards, and
borne along as rags on the breeze. Had
this happened a moment ago, the ship would
have been wrecked. But "nein, nein," said
the lieutenant. It did not happen.
CHAPTER L.
THE PRINCE-THE GIPSY-THE PUIIEST
King Juan had, immediately upon the fall
,of Savelli, appointed the' Cardinal Georgio,
Grand Inquisitor. This was done not only
without the consent but against the wishes
of the Grand Inquisitor of Spain. But the
King had the right to act independently in
this matter, and he used this right. Cardi-
nal Georgio, however, assured his majesty,
that the papal consent to his choice should
not be wanting. He was, therefore, fully in-
stituted in the high office, a few days after
his predecessor had been taken to prison.
One of Cardinal Georgio's first acts, was
to dismiss Pater Domingo from his office, and
the next to have him arrested, on charge of
liberating the prisoners of the Inquisition.
An inquiry into his guilt, was immediately
instituted. The King had also certain accu-
sations against the priest. Therefore, a se-
cond trial was ordered before the Council of
State, at which the two Grand Inquisitors
were to be present.
It is but proper to say that every endeavor
short of the rack had been made to induce
Pater Domingo to confess where the treas-
ures of Israelites were hid. King Juan hop-
edthatthesecond trialwould elicit something
at least, in regard to this subject.
It was the day of the trial. Ere we enter
the circular apartment in which the council
of State assembled, let us describe a scene
that occurred in the prison oPPater Domin-
go. The count di Almaveda had received
the charge of bringing the priest under a
strong guard to the palace. He had arrived
unusually early, and was now alone in the
low vault with the prisoner.
" The result of this trial can be but one,"

OR, PLOTS      AND COUNTERPLO.TS.                      171
he remarked, addressing Domingo, in the monkish cowl, and spoke in a voice whose
tones of one who entreats; "it is yet time, loud imperial sound rang short and sharp
my prince, time to save your life for Israel's upon the ears of all present:
sake. Forty nobles, brave and valiant, vir- "It is not because I fear your tortures,
tuous and determined are ready to leave the not because I shrink from your racks, that
land and travel as colonists to the green sa- I speak. Your steel and fire can not pain
vannahs of South America. My life, my me. It is not in your power to cause me ag-
,abilities are nothing in comparison with ony. But, I speak because I am an Israelite
yours, my prince. Therefore, accompany and a Prince, and the knowledge of my ac-
them, lead them, it is yet time to choose I- tions belongs to the World. I speak to chant
Oh,do not refuse me for our nation's sake 1" my death song. For, I feel that the God of
"All forty nobles, I presume," inquired my fathers has sent the dark angel to bear
the priest, "are of those, that, ignorant of me on high. But by your hands I shall not
Israel's laws and ceremonies, are but He- end my life."
brews by principle ?"                   The voice had such a latent power and
"We come of Jewish stock," replied the command, the eye such a proud and imperi.'
count, "but as you know, we have long lived ous flash, the brow such a grand, impressing
as Christians, and intermarried with the frown, that those of the council, who would
Gentiles, still we are ready to leave all for most have liked to tame that haughty lan-
the sake of Jehovah. Lead us, oh Prince, guage, and cow that lofty bearing, found not
and save a life so valuable. God can not words to speak, but glanced shyly and ob-
dehire this sacrifice. In a short while, the liquely at the speaker. The priest continued,
choice will have escaped your hands.  Ac- after a momentary death silent pause:
cept the means of escape-I offer, and, before "I have spent my life in efforts to subvert
tomorrow's sun, you will be free. Oh, you laws, and remove relations that disgrace the
consent?"                             human race. I have endeavored to tear a
"No, Count, if it were the wish of God I nation, which is the crown of mankind, from
should depart, the aid of man would not be the destruction that overcame them, under
necessary. His angels would perform mira- their iron heel, and to place it a glorious or -
cles for the son of David and Solomon. The nament at their head. I have fought for
prison walls would fall.. The chains melt. principles, which, in universal application,
The enemies be consumed.- But, it is deci. would make earth a paradise of reason. I
ded in heaven and on earth that I should have schemed and have worked, have thrown
die. That my workings, endeavors and la- myself in the course of fate's wheel and held
bors should end. Enough, it will be so.- back its spokes-all in vain, in vain. Vani-
Count, conduct me to the council."    ty is life, all vanity, my ancestor Solomon
With glances and expressions of the deep has sung. Vanity has been my life. Grand
est sorrow, the Count obeyed.-         thoughts, and hopes and actions have availed
Pater Domingo stood in the chamber, me nothing, I leave the earth as I found it,
where the council met. The nobles and of- leave Israel as I found it. God has not se-
ficers sat around the center table. At the lected me to be the Messiah of this w-onged
upper end presided tlie King, with Cardinal nation; this sinful world. I resign the
Georgio on one side-, the Grand Inquisitor broken remains of my thoughts and, plans
of Spain on the other.                 into his hands.
The trial lasted not long. Whatever had  "I have met all present in various charac-
been formerly ascertained was confirmed.- ters. Your majesty has known me as MAs-
But to questions regarding the treasures of son, the gipsy chief, and as PATER DoMINGO.
the Hebrews, the motives of his actions and You,my lords, knew me as DoN LIoNE., DIAN.
such like, the prisoner continued silent until Know me now, by my real appellation: Lu-
threatened by the rack. Then erecting his DovIc3, BEN DAVID, chief of the tribe of Ju-
form proudly, he threw back the heavy lab, and royal prince of lrael!"

I

I:


A murmur went around th
Each looked upon the other i
" Royal Prince I" cried t
dain.
"aly ancestors reigned ovi
countries than Portugal is n
were yet digging roots in No
sustain their life, and stole fi
neighbors, to cover their na
now, King of Portugal, I wi
Israel's nation, scattered, as
green globe, more powerful
command over your most de
For I am the prince of their:
King of their fears."
Juan grew livid and gre
His convulsively moving lips
articulate a sound. He m
with his hand, for the prison
ed.
But, extraordinary circuit
majesty of manner and appeal
er of mind, the high and hau
oquence, glued all eyes upon
Don Lionel Dian, or Prince
the King's motions were actu
by this assembly of courtiers
" However," continued the
rael,-" let the glorious past
give account of my work in t
Pater Domingo. I have liber
itish prisoners of the Inquis
their children to the free city
have despatched their treasux
wise, and have manned the sh
Israelites.
"In my character as Massor
enced you, King, through Don
stirred up a conspiracy, have
when they refused to adopt
have again used the Prior di
tool, have caused the Inquisi
pended-thisewas the gipsy ch
Lords, I am done. The Isr
safety. All your rage and cr
injare them any more. My v
I have worked in vain - but
My life ebbs away within me.
death approaches I Bis cold
me ! Lord, thy servant is rea
A momentary silence ensued

T H   FATAL-SEoRET,
e council board. Don Lionel stood with upturned face and
n astonishment. extended arms.
hd King in dis-  A crash as if the sky had burst ! A short,
sharp rumble ! A shock and quick swaying
er more civilized motion, as if the earth would dissolve awayl
ow, while yours And the walls and ceilings were torn assun-
rthern woods to der by a broad cleft. The apartment, was
rom their richer filled with whirling dust. Those present lay
kedness. Even on their faces unconscious, or convulsed
eld a sway over with terror. It was one of those severe
it is, over the though short earthquakes from which Lio-
than you can bon suffered so much during Juan's reign.
voted servants. It ended with the first shock. No more was
hearts-you the felt. That part of the royal palace, contain.
ing the council chamber, had, as it were,
en with rage.-- been torn asunder, by the shock. A great
were unable to deal of terror was occasioned by the phenom.
erely motioned enon. But all recovered in a short while
er to be remov- from the fright. All, except Don Lionel Di.
an. A stone had killed him. He was the
stance! The only one in Lisbon injured by the earth.
rance, the pow- quake. God had called him to his bosom by
mighty flow of el- one of his messengers, the earthquake.
the person of  Thus died the Hebrew Prince. Thus end.
Ludovico, and ed a life dedicated to the highest interests of
ally unobserved Israel and mankind.
5.              When they raised the body from the floor,
Prince of Is- where it lay upon its face, the features were
t rest. Let me found to be rigid in a last smile. The right
he characterof hand had been pushed into his bosom, and
ated the Israel- grasped a few dried olive leaves and a small
ition, have sent miniature of Queen Eleanora, that hung
of Amsterdam, there by a thin gold chain.'".,
res there like-  Giving orders for the body to be burned,
ips with secret and the ashes scattered to the winds, the
King hastened from the ruined apartment,
, I have influ- followed by the council of State.
na Gloria,have  That night the body was stolen, from the
exploded them convent of Santa Cruz, whence it had been
my principles, carried, by the Count di Almaveda and his
Castro as my followers. They embalmed it, and when,
tion to be sus- some time after, they fled from Portugal, it
ief. Now, my accompanied them and received a grave in
elites are in the green savannahs of South America.-
uelty can not Like, of old, the Israelites took the body of
rork is done.-  Joseph along, when they left Egypt, their
my sun sets.-  Purtuguese descendants bore the body of
The angel of their Prince with them, across the Atlantic
wings touch to their New Home, where no priestly hand
dy."1        could defile it, and no King throw dirt on
,during which the honored grave.

OR, PLoTs AND

t

When that new Portuguese congregation
in Amsterdam, whose emigration or flight
we have described in former chapters, many
months after it happened,heard of the death
of Don Lionel Dian, there was shedding of
tears and groanings of sorrow; there was
rending of garments, and mourning on the
floor. . And, in the new synagogue, around
whose holy ark wreathed almond and olive
branches, sweet keepsakes of the Southern
home, there arose in one loud universal voice
the prayer for the dead. Arose in a strain
so sad and sorrowful, arose from every heart
and lip, in tones, as choked by tearspud
sobs, as if each man was mourning his fath-
er. And for long months, the evening breeze
bore at every sunset, the sounds of that
mournful Kadish, far over the Zuider See.
Who knows, but the winds and waves took
up the sad strain and bore it across the
broad ocean to the grave of the Hebrew
Prince.
And, in the stilly hours of eve, dark-eyed
mothers took their wondering little ones up.
on the lap, and told them in a hushed voice
of the great Piinee, the Ben David, who had
done such mighty deeds, and was loved by
the Lord, and told them how he saved the
congregation, and was called to God, and
slept in the golden land far away. And pas.
sionate tears of sorrow rolled down the clear
dark complexioned cheeks as they bid their
children remember him, and endeavor to be-
come like him. And the little ones cried
along, and stammered the name of Don Li-
onel Dian, the great Ben David, and glorious
prince, in holy awe.
And as year by year passed away, and on
the anniversary of their escape, Aaron Ro.
dow chanted joyful Psalms, and the syna.
gogue was decorated with orange and almond
boughs, hearts rejoiced again and again.--
And as on the anniversary of Don Lionel's
death, the mournful Kadish was recited
again, the heart was wrung and the eye dim-l
med at the recollection. And the memory of
the Hebrew Prince was kept fresh and green.
CHAPTER         LI.
CONCLUsION.
The Israelites sped over the high seas, during

1/

CoUNTUPLoTS.                     l3
the -whole night driven by the raging storm.
Happily it carried them northward, and eve.
ry howl of the wind, every foaming heave of
the sea, brought them nearer their destina-
tion. Morning dawned; the storm subsid-
ed; the sea grew calm; and the ship with
widespreadsails ploughed her course through
the plunging billows. On the second day
she was rejoined by her companion, the
smaller vessel, which had also managed to
escape, during the storm. Many anxious
fears were relieved by this re-union.
Not long after, anchor was east in the
Zuider See, and the Portuguese Israelites
were landed in Amsterdam. We need. not
say how glad they were to find their children
and treasures there. A congregation was
immediately formed, which still exists at the
present day. Happiness and success smiled
upon them, they grew wealthy and honored,
and enjoyed, in peace, the liberty of eon-
science and divine worship they had sought
for. Holland became their new home, the
country of their children. They prospered
in it, they liked it. Butstill longing glances
were thrown to the south, and fond desires
yearned for the brilliant life in sunny Por-
tugal. Portugal their own first home, the
land they loved for its own sake, for their
own sakes; Portugal was a name that woke
the music in their breasts, the tear in their
eye. Around Portugal, memory wove her
sweetest thoughts, and memory is often the
paradise of life. Oh, and nevermore did
they behold it, nevermore dwelled their eye
on the broad Tagus, and on haughty Gintra,
and on the golden steepled Lisbon. In their
dreams, on the sunset sky, and deep in the
canals of Amsterdam only, they, saw the
bright shadows of the past home and the past
happiness.
We return to the other characters of owr
tale-too long neglected perhaps.
Pater Modestus was imprisoned on charge
of-Misardo's murder. But since nothing
could be proved, he was soon again set -st
liberty. The money found in the house and
upon the body of the miser was, however
confiscated, Poor Modestus, wise through
experience, never again went to sea, but
lived a quiet life, eating and praying in a
well endowed convent of his order.

I-


174

IrSS

TitsLGamTAL SECRET,

I In regard to Don Miguel, he was-never made advances, and by dint of her charms,
even suspected of the heinous crime he had and the attractions of her long savings and
committed.  When Donna Bananda fled clippings, succeeded in securing a husband
leaving many rich lands unsold in the King- in him. They bought a small house, with
dom, these were claimed by Miguel as the the shop and good will appertaining thereto,
nearest relative, and granted by his master, and were doing business pretty successfully.
the King. We shall mention this personage  The further life of King Juan III of Por-
again.                                  tugal, and his brother the Prior di Castro;
We now allow some years to pass, and the success and firm establishment of .the
then visit a couple, that occupy and possess Inquisition and the consequent decay of the
a fine thriving tavern in a village not far land, are matters of history. Our tale re-
from Amsterdam.' The host is sober and cords nothing further about them.   -
pleasant; in his gait every one discovers the  Here we pause to look upon two scenes,
walk of a sailor. But this serves to make well worthy of our attention.
him popular, not less than the dry jokes and  Imagine a large low  Dutch  country
the honesty, honored in his person. In short mansion, with its regular parterres and its
it is Joseppo, the boatswain, and the fair gay rich colored flowers erect like soldiers,
busy hostess, his wife, is no other than Ma- with its fancifully trimmed trees and shining
via Flunoz. They live right happily, with windows, and wide projecting gables. Im-
each other and are very likely to thrive well agine this prim habitation, as you will still
in the world. Maria who in Holland and find many like it, in the neighborhood of
in the society of Joseppo has forgotten Por- Amsterdam, with countless windmills in
tugel and her dark gipsy lover, makes as sight, and broad canals here and there cut-
good, loving, and careful a wife, as if she ting the country. After ycu have imagined
had always lived in her present sober home, all this, let us enter. the broad, comfortable
and never been the chamber maid of Donna brick building, through one of the quaintly
Gloria, the beloved of the handsome page, carved doors, for it is the mansion of the
and the gay Portuguese girl.           wealthy merchant, Mynheer Hendrick Costa
And Fidaro ? Why, he has married also, -of our hero Don Enrique da Costa. And
and turned merchant in a small way, on one since we know this, now, we may also re-
of Lisbon's busy streets. And who is the mark before we enter, the broad glassen
wife of his bosom ? None else than the greenhouse, which is filled with Southern
venerable spinster Margarita Flunoz. Fate plants. In a large apartment of the man-
fulfilled all her wishes and desires. She sion, before a crackling fire, for the summer
won a husband, young, good and handsome, is chilly, sits the merchant and his good
Let us relate how tl is remarkable union was frow, together with his two little ones, a hoy
brought about.                  -      and a girl. The children, however have
. Fidaro was very much dejected by the seated themselves on small stools, on either
departure of Maria, of which he was inform- side of a mighty chair, in the recesses of
ed. The death of his master and chieftain which lays grandmother, Donna Bananda.-
Don Lionel Dian rendered him still more The conversation turnedon Count Almaveda.
mselancholy. When at last at the departure of  "He and his noble companions," said
those Israelites whom the Count di Almave- Enrique, "have also dropt the proud appel-
da led, many gipsies were induced to follow lation of their fathers. They are but plain,
them across the Atlantic, and thus Massor's settlers, tilling the ground and consuming
band was dissolved-Fidaro not only de- or selling their produce; he is their chief,
paired in spirit, but was reduced to great David Nassi.  Why should we then regret'
straits.  Leave Portugal he would not, and, changes of fate? And yet, my dear Rosa,
therefore, had rejected Almaveda's offers.- when I remember the brilliancy of our for-
Ndw, he lived a beggar in the streets of Lis- mer life-my only wish is that our children
bon. Then, dame Margarita met him. She may be permitted to return to Portugal."

I

On, PLoTs       AN D C
" May Heaven grant it so," replied Rosa;
"the memories of what we were are like
beautiful dreams. Yet I willingly offered
all for my great God, and my religion.-
Come Bella," she called to the little girl
"sing to me that Spanish song of home.-
Father is melancholy."
The child obeyed.,
While she was yet singing, a servant en1
tered and announced a stranger.
" Bid him come in," said Enrique.
It was Captain Sporaso.
Great were the rejoicings that evening, for
the captain had been in South America, and
on his return touched in Portugal, and stay.
ed there several weeks. Inquiries were the
order of the day now. Inquiries after old
friends, old places, old things, everything he
could mention, was of interest. Each of the
company seemed to live his youth over again.
Even Donna Bananda began to talk and re-
late of the time when the noblest of the land
sang ditties beneath her windows, and how,
when in Spain with Princess Bianca, the
Duke de Medina Sidonia and the Duke de
Ildefonso were rivals for her affections.
Not long, and the table was set at Good
frow Rosa's order. The supper was brought
in on heavy silver vessels. Old fiery Span-
ish wines were taken from the cellars, and
golden Southern fruits from the greenhouse.
Songs and anecdotes of days long past, bril-
liant reminiseenses and court scandal, spark-
ling wit, and rich humor, were the subjects
of the conversation. All lived again the hap-
piest part of their lives. Any one listening
would have been sure that those present
were of the highest nobility of Spain and
Portugal. Even their children looked at
them with strange astonishment. Thus pas-
sed the evening. And many such evenings
were kept in the Dutch mansion, each one
serving to keep Portugal's memory bright.
We turn to the second scene. On the
coast of India, one of the Portuguese forts
has been attacked and taken by the natives.
As well known the Portuguese were in al-
most constant warfare with the inhabitants
of India. It was at the time when the hate
of the East Indians inflamed by the treach-
erous Venitians, had embittered them most

JOUNTERPLOTS.                       175
against the new colonists.  The fort we
speak of was peculiarly obnoxious from the
wild cruelty and oppression of its governor.
Therefore, the rajah of the neighboring
mountains with his warriors had descended
into the plain\and taken the fort. The Por-
tuguese had resisted well, but been forced
to yield to numbers. The Indians slaugh-
tered them mercilessly. But the governor
and his beautiful young wife were brought
prisoners to the rajah. He looked at them
sternly.
"Let me be ransomed," said the governor,
who was no other than Don Miguel di Sousa.
"I offer you great ransom for my life. The
King of Portugal will pay it, rajah."
"So you love life?" inquired the Indian
prince.
" What a question? 1 am your prisoner,
of war, rajah, and, in honor you are bound
to let me be ransomed. Send to the next
Portuguese port with your conditions of my
release."
" The rules of your dishonest nation bind
me not. We have other honor than the -
Portuguese.-
"Rajah, if You harm me, a terrible retri-
bution will follow. Fear the power of Por-
tugall"
"I fear it not. Let this guilty man receive
one hundred- stripes, cut his arins and*go
off, ad then burn his body. ButeA)that
he remain alive as long as possible."
Amid his frantic cries, Don Miguel was
removed from the Rajah's presence; before
sunset the sentence was executed. The ash-
es of his body, together with the cut-off limbs
were cast in a dung hole.
And his wife? His wife, the widow of
Don Isidore di Canaroo, the beautiful Donna
Miranda, was sent by the rajah, as a present
to the Sultan of Hindostan. She elevated
herself, soon afterwards, to the position of
Sultana, and remained his majesty'sbeloved
favorite, as long as he lived. When he died
she ruled by her son, the young sultan, and
always proved herself a decided enemy of"
the Portuguese.
I have none else to report of . The future
lives of the smaller characters are too unim-
portant to record.  Therefore, we totally
omit mentioning them now.

i
I
i
t
i
i
w
a       ,
.
l
+7!
t
1
l
t
'
f
f
"     1-
i
1
" ?.
ttt)4iiil
)z,
1.
f
1
7'
i+
i

i
l
,
:
~ .
'


176                      THE    FATAL      SECRET.
I am done. Reader, I have learned to    Louis WYLER, Esq.
love you, during the course of this tale. I   My Dear Friend!
am now full of sadness, for the bond which        You have been kina enough to
connected us for so long a time, is about to aid me, repeatedly, in the collection of ma-
be broken.   We have, together, admired terials for this Novel. At its close, let me
characters and-minds, which were the orna- acknowledge it; let me thank you, with the
ments of their age. We have together look- respect due to your high talents and vivid
ed upon a sad epoch of our nation's history. imagination.
We have watched too the war of passion  If this circumstance, as everything that
in human hearts. And, now, we are about brings us into closer connection, will serve
to part. Let me hope that I have treated to increase and exalt our present friendship,
my subjects in a worthy manner, and that I then this Novel, will be always looked upon
have pleased and instructed you. Kind rea- as a source of pleasure, by
der, farewell!1  NATHAN MAYER.                                THE AUTHOR
{
HEBRPEW
TION so


  
             
         
       
   
