
    ----CITATION----
        Seton, William, (1835-1905). Romance of the Charter Oak, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7739
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Romance of the Charter Oak, vol. 2 
            
               424      EOMANCE OF THE yet not a word of complaint escaped his lips, and although he shrewdly guessed who had co3mmitted the cruel deed, he dismissed all idea of reproving Tom Hubbard. "Let it- be taken as a punishment," he groaned "for the scandal I gave at the husking-Oh, wel- come, bruise!"-here he gazed at- his bleeding foot. "How much better to have my skin and sinews mangled while on earth, than have body and soul wrapped in hell fire hereafter." END OF VOLUME   ROMANCE OF THE CHARTER OAK. CHAPTER XXTTr. IT wo  Ld he difficult to describe the feelings of Nancy Clan'k when she turned her back on her fa, ther; resolved nt last to serve no longer the ene- mies of her ccuiry. She left him, as we remem- ber, immediately ,ffter the drill, and as she hasten- ed towards Wadsworth's house, where she hoped to find Lydia, and warn her of the danger which menaced the regicide, her countenance wore a look brighter than it had in years, yet at the same time she knew that she was doing an act which Mr. Clark never would forgive. Nancy ran almost the whole distance, and the violent knock which she gave on the door was answered by Miss Crabtree, whose eyes widened with astonishment. "What on earth have you come here for?" ex- claimed the dame, tossing back her top-knot. "Miss Lydia, Miss Lydia, I want to see her," spoke Nancy, undaunted by the other's look. Scarcely had she uttered the name of her friend     6       ROMANCE OF THE when the door was slammed in her face. Buts the young woman, who had made up her mind to carry out her purpose, hastened round to the east win- dow, where Goody Garlic was seated with her spindle and distaff, and tapping upon it, just as Miss Crabtree was poking her head into the oven, Prudence threw it open and informed her that they themselves had only just got home, and that Lydia had not accompanied them.  On learning this, Nancy hurried to the tavern where she suspected Lydia might be found, perhaps chatting with Jacob Japheth, or if the cobbler had entered the Bunch of Grapes, then watching from a short distance Tmle proceedings of the meeting. 'She did not  drealm, however, that she would discover Lydia actually inside of the Ordinary, mingling with the noisy crowd, for even if her natural timidity might not have prevented it, Nancy would not have con- sidered such a place a proper one for a female to enter. The reader will likewise remember how she found her friend about to ascend the moderator's chair, encouraged by a number of voices, which were clamoring for an address; how the regicide's daughter left the Ordinary at Nancy's summons, then having learnt the dreadful news, went back to tell it to Wadsworth; and how, while awaiting her reappearance, Nancy perceived Mr. Clark watch-   CHARTER OAK.     -  7 ing her, and near him two men, whom she recog- nized as the same to whom she had paid a quantity of gold the day before. Her father was yet stand- ing in the same spot, when she turned and walked in the direction of her home, hoping that Lydia would overtake her, and wondering what kept her friend so long in the tavern. The excitement which had seized Nancy the moment she had de- termined to brave her parent's wrath, was now gradually passing away, and in its place was coming I a faintness which deprived her almost of the strehlgth to walk. The roof where she had been born, where her dear mother had died, was only a short distance off, yet at this moment it seemed as if she never would reach it, nor when she got there would it be like home. She was almost at the little gate when she heard footsteps behind, and turning saw the widow Bull, who was coming from a visit to Jacob Japheth, carrying in her hand a pair of shoes which the cobbler had been mend- ing. "How slow your step is, Miss Clark," said the dame; "methinks the air is crisp enough, albeit February is past, to make such a light body move more briskly. Dear knows, if I was your weight, I'd not have taken half an hour to get this far!"w, Nancy "At the sight of the good-natured widow, Nancy   8       ROMANCE OF THE halted and waited for her to come up; but she had no heart to say anythlng--in the distance she es- pied her father limping along, and it would not take him many minutes to overtake her. "What troubles you, lonely one?" continued Mis. Bull, speaking with difficulty, for the exercise had exhausted her breath. "One might suppose you were carrying in your heart a heavier burthen than usual. Oh, I know it, Nancy ; yes, I know it! He's a hard man to live with, and TI'd not be a single day with him if I was in your place, and yet you've been a martyr to him, just as your poor, dear mother was."' The young woman made no answer to these words, but shivered and said: "Yes, it is cold this evening." "Well, come home with me and read the ' Merry Wives of Windsor,'"' pursued the widow, pulling her sleeve -"'twill bring the smiles back to your face. My house isn't so large as yours, but I ven- ture to say it is a pleasanter place to live in. Come, you can get home before he shuts up for the night- a thing, however, which I never do-the latclh- string is always hanging outside my door." "'The Merry Wives of Windsor,"' repeated Nancy; " what a funny title for a book. I never heard of it before." "It's not a book, Miss; it's only one of a num-   CHARTER OAK.       9 ber of tales contained in a certain volume of which Shakespeare is the author." "Shakespeare!" exclaimed the other, drawing back; "well, if I were to accompany you home, I could not read that work-it is forbidden; and when I found it in your hands, the day Lydia and I brought you the invitation to the husking, I was much scan- dalized, and left your cabin sooner than I otherwise might." "Yes, I remember how you frowned on that oc- casion," rejoined the dame ;-but I did not think you were in earnest-I flattered myself that you were more liberal, seeing that you do not go to meeting oln the Sabbath. I myself only go because I'm forced, and because our good tithing-man some months ago begged me not to break the law, else he would have to report me or lose his office. So then, Miss, you are as narrow-minded as the rest of the folks, eh?"  Here Mrs. Bull clasped her hands. "However, do as you like," she continued, '"about coming, only I beg you do not breathe to anybody the name of Shakespeare: they'd banish me from the settlement if they found out I read his works," Nancy promised to keep the secret, but at the same time declined to accompany the widow to her cabin--her father was now close by, so pressing the dame's hand, she waved her off.   i30      ROMANCE OF THE "( Different from other gals," muttered Mrs. Bull, as she went on her way. "If my old man was livin', I'd get him to take her a cruise in the Polly Ann; a dash of salt spray would do her good." For a reason which Nancy could not well explain to herself, slke preferred to meet her parent in the street, rather than within the walls of the old stone mansion; perhaps she dreaded the effect of the gloom which reigned there-the open air, the sun- beams would give her greater nerve. As he came up, Mr. Clark's sinister countenance was fastened upon her with a stare, which had in it an ominous meaning, and although he was within a few feet of her he did not open his lips, but made her a sign to enter the gate in advance. The young woman obeyed, her heart throbbing violently, and her foot was already on the highest step of the porch, when suddenly he bade her halt. "Young woman," he said, "are you guilty of what I suspect? have you revealed to any one, what I know about the regicide?" "I have," replied Nancy, looking boldly at him, yet in truth frightened at her own spirit. "Then you have dwelt with me long enough to learn all my schemes, and when that was done, you have betrayed me?" "Oh, father, my purpose had in it no want of love for you! If they came to harm you and   CHARTER OAK.        " I knew of it in time, I would warn you at the risk of my life. So can you blame me in your heart for wishing to save the father of my dearest friend? Oh, I beg you abandon those whom you have served only too well; let us both repent together. Be no longer the tool of the hateful Andros!" So little prepared was Mr. Clark for this display of spirit, that at first he was taken aback and could only gaze at her with his pitiless eye. But when, after Nancy had done speaking, she covered her face with her hands and burst into tears, his indig- nation broke out. "You have," he exclaimed, { dealt me a hard blow'; , I had great plans laid: out, and you were to be a sharer in my glory. Now, when everything prom- ises success, you unmask yourself, and I find my daughter has been a snake in the grass! But that shall' not stop me-foolish! wicked girl!" These words were spoken slowly and with terrible earnest- ness, and when he paused a moment the young woman bowed her head. Andros," he continued, " has all the power of 'England at his back, and I have Andros to support me. What care I for Wadsworth and his train- band? Aye, and for all the train-bands in Con- necticut? By heaven! if the regicide escape me a second time, he will be captured if it cost ten thousand pounds."           (   1-2      ROMANCE OF THE Here he placed his hand on Nancy's shoulder and pushed her, yet not rudely, towards the edge of the porch. "Go! go!" he said, " and tell this to all Hartford. Tell them, too, that King James is not a shadow; that unless they give up their charter they may dearly rue their stubborness. Go tell this to those who now enjoy your confidence. As for me-oh child, it is hard to speak it, but after what you have done this day I disown you, you must seek another home--go!" Then, without waiting to see if she left the stoop or not, he turned and entered the house, locking the door behind him, while Nancy gazed after liml with a stupefied air-she could not realize all at once that she, must this very night seek a strange place where she might pillow her head. At length, she turned and looked towards the road, then sinking down on the stoop, re- mained there until Wadsworth passed by with Adams and the guard-and she was still in the same position when the meeting-house bell rang. The sound brought her to her feet; it was not the nine o'clock bell-what could it mean? might it be an alarm? It was while she was hastening toward the green, to ascertain the cause of the ringing, that she met Lydia, who was hurrying there for the same purpose, and by the side of her friend she re-   CHARTER OAK.       13 mained while the townfolks were gathering to wel- come Dr. Mather, and in broken accents poured into her ear her tale of grief. CHAPTER XXTTT. AFTER Dr. Mather had gone by, followed by the noisy, enthusiastic crowd, Nancy and 'her friend watched them a few minutes, then turning round directed their steps to the south end of the town. !"If Captain Wadsworth,". said Lydia. "only knew what your father has done, he would force you to accept the hospitality of his roof; though Miss Crabtree might scold till her topknot flew off, he would not listen to her." ("I believe you," said Nancy," I believe you ; there is nobody like him in all Connecticut 1" "Aye, but stop," interrupted the other, " while he is all that you say, and while I esteem him as -much as any body, yet in a case like yours 'twould be only an act of charity to befriend you. There- fore, why not reconsider your purpose and accom- pany me to his house?" "'Not while his au t is there," replied Nancy; "for Wadsworth's own sake I would not wish his relative annoyed. She cannot overcome her dis- like for me."   -14      ROMANCE OF THE Presently, they came to Little river--now al. most free from ice, and which the melting snow had caused to rise far above its usual level-and had reached the middle of the bridge when they perceived a dark object moving swiftly down the current-perhaps it was the limb of a tree or a log from the saw-mill. Suddenly, Nancy clasped her hands and uttered an exclamation of grief. "Why, don't you see," she said, in reply to her friend's inquiring look, "it is the ducking-stool. I feared the rope would not hold till spring; see, the willow to which it was fastened is half buried by the freshet-too bad, too bad!" At these words, Lydia drew back, and gazed at Nancy with an expression more of pity than of anger. But in another moment, throwing her arms around her neck-" never mind," she said, " never mind; I shall always love you, no matter what you may think about ducking-stools and whipping- posts ; but for you, my father would soon have been in the power of Andros." .Then giving her an em- brace, she hurried her' across the bridge towards the widdw Bull's cabin, where Nancy, after having refused to go to Wadsworth's, had finally consent- ed to seek refuge. While they were drawing nigh the house, it occurred to Lydia that her friend and Mrs. Bull would ibe an ill-matched couple for one roof to shelter, the widow's temperament being the   CHABTER OAK.       15 reverse of Nancy's, and there was nothing the good woman so much abhorred as the strict laws of the Puritans; so that unless out of compassion for the outcast she would hardly brook an opinion favor- able to ducking-stools. "And yet," thought Lydia, "is not my friend inconsistent? She never shows herself at meeting. Can her lukewarmness have been forced upon her by Mr. Clark, who is accused of being an Anglican?"Little did the girl know how near the truth this surmise was, and had any one told her all that Nancy had suffered since her mother's death, she would have felt for the young woman even more pity than she did. Soon they reached the humble dwelling at the extreme south end of the town, occupied by the good samaritan, who in former days had given hospitality to the regicide and his daughter. Mrs. Bull received them in her usual bluff, genial man- ner, then, before Lydia could utter a word, be- gan asking what had caused the bell ringing. "Perhaps," she said, " it was one of Captain Joe's scouts, bringing good news from Boston. Some- body rode past a little while ago, with Mr. Wads- worth walking by his horse. Pray, girls,/what was all the hubbub about?" "In so far, as it was somebody from Boston," re- plied Lydia, " you are right ; Dr. Mather has come. But, whether he is the bearer of good tidings or bad, is more than we can say."   16      ROMANCE OF THE "Humph! and it was to do him honor then, that the folks were called out of their houses, and suchk a hulla-bulloo made?" continued - the widow, "Well, well, well, I'm glad I stayed in doors, frying my bacon." Nancy was about answering the good  woman, and telling her that the minister, for the, bold stand he had taken in favor of the colonies, well deserved such a reception, when Lydia made her a sign to hush. "Do not," she whispered, " begin thus early to disagree with the dame." Then turning towards the latter, "I have come hither, good woman," she said, "on a strange errand; nothing less than to askl' shelter for my friend"--at these words she clasped Nancy's hand. "Oh! indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Bull, whose curi- osity to learn what had happened quite overcame her power to say anything more--oh, oh, indeed." Then motioning them both to a bench, she placed her hand behind her ear and began listening with wrapt attention to what Lydia went on to relate. Out of respect, however, for the feelings of her friend, the regicide's daughter spoke not an unkind word of-L Mr. Clark ; she told the bare facts without any comment, while Nancy bowed her head and let J the tears drop on her lap. When she had finished, the widow-whose face had been gradually getting redder and redder-                    -   FI      -CHARTER OAK.           17 !  doubled up her fat fist and was on the point of call- !  ing Mr. Clark a name which would have sorely grieved Nancy, when Lydia put her finger to her lips. Mrs. Bull understood what she meant, and restraining her indignation, exclaimed, "let the poor, dear, blessed creature live with me; the house is small, but there's room enough for two, and though my means are scanty since--" here she pulled from her pocket the piece of tarred rope, and gave it a kiss--" since my husband died, never- theless I have riches, enough for two; so, consider yourself at home here, Miss Clark, consider your- self at home; and by all the sharks, as my old man used to say, 'll break the broomstick over the head of anybody that comes here to worry you!" Lydia now spoke a few words to her friend, as- suring her that she would not let a day go by without paying her a visit, then pressing a moment the good widow's hand, left the house. She had proceeded, however, scarcely ten steps, -when Nancy springing up from the bench, hastened to the threshold and called her back. "Lydia, Lydia," she said, "I want to ask. you a favor--it is this: should you, as I am certain you will, hear people speak harshy of my father, add not to the hostile feeling against him by any words of your own. Promise me this, I beg you; al- though he turned me away from home, I love him-   18      ROMANCE OF THE oh, yes, and I always shall. This is all I wanvt to say." Lydia stood musing a moment, then looking up. -"iif I had no father myself," she replied, "I fear even my affection for you might prevent me saying Yes to what you have just asked. But if you love your parent as I love mine, then I can understand your feelings. No, not by a single word will I add to the hatred which many have for Mr. Clark. I only Wonder he dares remain in Hartford." At this, Nancy caught her by the arm--" thinkl you he is in danger?" she said. "Well, I have never heard him threatened," re- plied Lydia, " but you know the course he is pur- suing may bring him into trouble." "Oh, yes, and I am to blame for it," sighed the other. "Had I taken my present stand earlier, who knows, perhaps dear father might have aban- doned the service of Dudley and Andros. Oh, God, pardon me!-how weak, how foolish I have been!" "Well, do not grieve so much about it," said Lydia, as she saw the tears in her friend's eyes; "you may yet bring him around to the side of the colonies." "I will do all I can," sobbed Nancy; "but you have aroused a horrible fear in my breast-my fa- ther's life may be in danger; do in time give me   CHARTER OAK.       xv warning. Oh, do! Harsh as he is, I am his child, and you know I love him. Oh, go not hence till you promise me this." "I promise," answered Lydia, recalling at that moment the fierce look of- Simon Adams, when he had pointed the dagger at his heart in WadswortIhs' study only an hour before. "Much as I love New England and hate King James and his tyrant governor, I abhor an assassin, and, more- over, but for you my own dear father's life might have been forfeited. So, come what may, I will re- main your friend." With this, they bade each other good-night, and Nancy re-entered the widow's cabin, thanking God for having sent her in her sore distress such a staff to lean upon as Lydia Gxoffee CHAPTER XXIV.. THE arrival of so distinguished a guest as Doc- tor Mather, threw Miss Crabtree into a condition bordering on hysterics. "It's quite took my breath away," she said to Prudence Garlic, after the ceremony of introduction had been gone through with, and while her nephew was ushering the minister into the study. "L ord,   20      ROMANCE OF THE how the folks']l crowd here to-morrow. I'm awful proud!"  Then, with a frown, she asked where Lydia was. "The girl ran out to learn the cause of the bell- ringing, and hasn't come back. I'd have followed her and. kept her in sight, if I hadn't been so tired looking at the drill, for her expression alarmed me; she looked as if she'd heard some dreadful news." Miss Crabtree shook her head. "Aye," mutter- ed the dame, "there's evil in the wind; depend upon it, there is. The girl is changing for the worse every day. She won't go to meeting; she has hardly spoken to me once this week; and as for Wadsworth-she acts so strangely towards him that I almost think he's quite given her up. But it's his fault; I begged him not to let Nancy Clark come to the husking; her evil eye has done it all." "Well, we can pray for the dear child," said Goody Garlic, who, although she felt no small anx- iety about her charge, was never willing openly to find fault with her. "I myself am a good deal to blame; yes, I am, I am; oh Lord, forgive mle for having let that stranger kiss her. But I will pray for the dear child, I will." "Well, praying won't do no harm,' returned Charity, closing the oven door with a slam; "but a scolding would be worth a dozen prayers. Alas I I fear she's ruined."       " *   CHARTER OAK.       21 "I say she ain't," rejoined Prudence, nettled by these last words; " let her alone, don't be asking her where she's been every time she comes in from a walk; don't teaze her so about going to meeting. Indeed, 'twould have been better if you had fol- lowed my advice and not spoken to Colonel Goffe about her marrying your nephew. Love matters always work better when third parties don't med- dle." "Humph! your affection for the girl has blinded you to her faults," pursued Miss Crabtree; "I wish our ruling elder had her in charge. But mark, Prudence, mark, if she doesn't alter her ways and go to meeting on the Sabbath, it'll be the tithing- man's duty to report her.- He can't much longer make his blind eye an excuse for not knowing Nwhether she's there or not. Oh! Jacob Japheth, you too belong to the tribe of soft hearts! But, thank God, Israel Barebones dwells amongst us. He will stir up the people and have cages for sab- bath-breakers placed at the entrance of our two meeting-houses; just as the good folks at Ipswich, 3Iassachussetts, have done. Now, how would you like to see Miss Lydia put in such a thing, eh?" As she spoke, the dame gave a savage grin. "I'd get her out of it, if I had to tear every bit of flesh off my hands, in opening the bars!" re- joined Goody Garlic. ' Yes, indeed I would."   22       ROMANCE OF THE Her friend looked at her a moment, then smiled pitifully. "Ah!" pursued Charity, " you've been so long in the wilderness that you don't know our laws. Why, Prudence, if you were to attempt such a thing you'd be put in the stocks, and if you got no worse punishment you might consider yourself luckly."  Well, I'd tear the bars down if I coulcl, and then the might do with me whatever they pleased," resumed the faithful nurse, stamping her foot. Here Miss Crabtree let the matter drop; it was the first time she and her friend had had the least shadow of a dispute between them, and the breach, small as it was, might grow wider unless she held her tongue. So, for the next quarter of an hour she allowed Prudence to do all the talking. Leaving them in this unpleasant mood, we will return to Wadsworth and his reverend guest. Heartily glad was the latter, when he found him- self safe inside the house, where the enthusiastic multitude could pursue him no farther; for, so violent had many of them been in expressing their admiration for him, that his coat had been dis- figured by an ugly rip, while his hands felt as if a very little more shaking would have wrenched them from the joints. His pride, however, had been much gratified by such a welcome-yes, very, very much; and when Tom Hubbard-after doing   CHARTER OAK.         23 all the damage he; could-had released his hold on the coat, the doctor, who had at length got both his hands free, had raised them up and solemnly blessed the lad. Wadsworth, as soon as the library door, was closed, helped the minister take off his torn vest- ment, then having -replaced it with one of his own -which we must confess did not fit over, well the doctor's portly body--begged' his guest to be seated, at the same time offering him a pipe. i My aunt," said he, "is preparing the evening meal, 'twill be ready soon; in the meanwhile drink sole of my tobacco.* The minister noddedl, and in a few minutes they were both sending up towards the ceiling clouds of smoke, which must have astonished the spiders, for the Captain had never before, thus desecrated his sanctum. "I believe," said the divine, after watching in si- lence the first wreath or two which curled from his pipe, "I believe I haven't seen you since last sum- mer when you were on a visit to Plymouth." "True," replied Wadsworth, " andin the interval the state of these poor colonies has grown more critical. What news, sir, do you bring?" "Nothing that is good, Captain. Andros seems *Drink tobacco-a common expression in those days for smoke tobacco.   24 -      ROMANCE OF THE. bent on destroying self-government; and in spite of my efforts to prevent him, has taken one of our meeting-houses for Anglican worship,*while the troops whom he has brought with him, are a con- stant source of terror to the inhabitants of Boston. Moreover, the display which both he and Lady Andros make in their dress, and the coach in which they drive about the streets. is setting a fearful ex- ample of luxury to our simple people." "I am glad of it," said Wadsworth, " such a ruler will force us to arms. Aye, Dr. Matlher, we must have a revolution. Our ruling elder-a vener- able, pious man-counsels against it; says that we ought to trust in the Almighty, who in his own good time will hurl King James from the throne. But such advice is not consonant with Scripture. The Lord helps those who dare help themselves." "I have heard of your ruling elder, Captain ; his name, I believe-is Israel Barebones-a man of un- common godliness?" "Yes, that is his name; his influence with the people is very great. But he shall not thwart me- I have a mllission-I cannot turn aside ; no, the Al- mighty would abandon me if I did." "Well, Mr. Wadsworth, I hope we may soon have a change in the mother country; I cannot believe the people of England will long put up with such a monarch." *Palfrey, Hist. N. E., Vol. 3, P. 521.   CHARTER OAK.       25 "Well, I sincerely hope for no' such thing!" ex- claimeed Wadsworth. "I rejoice at King James' tyranny-'twill fire'the powder-I am aiming at in- dependence." Dr. Mather stared at his host a mo- ment, then shrugged his shoulders, as though he doubted the wisdom of such an enterprise. "Do you not give me encouragement?" pursued the Captain, bending eagerly towards him. "You may make the attempt, Mr. Wadsworth, if you like," answered the other, "and I will give you all my support; there is something sublime in the idea of these colonies governing themselves and telling Europe to stand aloof. But as I have already remarked, it is not every man who shouts 'hurrah! for liberty,' that is ready to shed his blood for it. I doubt if we are prepared for a republic, and I truly believe the majority would prefer to remain colonists, provided their lost rights were given back to them." "I grieve, sir, to learn that such is your opinion," said Wadsworth. "You must have seen many per- sons on your journey hither, and doubtless speak knowingly of their sentiments." Here the Cap- tain rested his elbow on the table, and partly chv- ering his face with his hand, remained silent for more than a minute, thinking deeply over the words of his reverend guest. "But if I succeed in rousing the people, you will stand by me?" he ex-   26       ROMANCE OF TE  . claimed, suddenly uncovering his face, and again leaning towards the divine. "Oh yes, that I will. Increase Mather is no lover of Bishops or Kings; your idea, I repeat, is sublime; and although my faith in its success may not be as great as your own, yet no word o-r deed of mine shall be an obstacle in your path. On the contrary, may the Lord strengthen your arms, and in the day of battle hold them up, even, as Hur and Aaron supported the arms of Moses when he led the children of Israel against Ama- lec." For a few minutes there was a lull in the conver- sation, during which the clergyman went on drink- ing his tobacco, and at the same time studying at- tentively the face of his host, which struck him as being thinner and paler than when he had seen him last. "Mr. Wadsworth," he said at length, taking the pipe from his mouth and laying it on the table, "you ought to get a wife." Had the minister risen up and dealt the Cap- tain a blow with his fist, the effect could scarcely have been greater than that produced by this un- looked-for speech. Wadsworth's hand, which just - then was pressing his brow, dropped as if paralyz- ed--his eyes segmed to recede into his head-his iaw fell. "Indeed you ought," pursued Increase   CHARTER OAK.       -27 Mather, not minding in the least the dumbfounded expression of his host. "A good wife would make you sleep sounder at night. I know it is organiz- ing this conspiracy against Andros, which has made you like the ghost of your former self. Beware, Captain, beware!" "Marry?" exclaimed Wadsworth, recovering a little from his bewilderment-" me take a. wife? It cannot be!" "And pray, why not, sir? Have you proposed to all the maidens in Hartford, and have they all refused you?" Here Doctor Mather laughed. But Wadsworth groaned, and folding his arms, cast' his eyes upon the floor, repeating half aloud, "It cannot be, it cannot be; n nono, I must keep my vow." At these words the minister's face became grave. Was his host the victim of some hallucination? Had his mind already been thrown off its balance by a too intense devotion to one great idea? "What a pity!" thought the clergyman, who during the five or six years that he had known Wadsworth, had always admired him, "what a pity!" At this moment his host's countenance was violently agitated, different passions seemed to be contending for the mastery. Now, the heavy eyebrows would contract-then his forehead would suddenly become smooth again; at another in-   28       ROM NCE OF THE staunt a groan would escape him, then the lips would be pressed firmly together, and a dark look overspread his, face. At length bowing down his head until it. rested on the table: "Lord, Lord!" he murmured, "give me strength to keep my covenant with Thee! Satan begone!" and as Wadsworth spoke, he clenched his fists as if to strike. "My dear friend," said the doctor, in a voice which betrayed much uneasiness, "when you greeted me a short hour ago at the entrance of the town, you appeared sane enough; pray, whllat has come over you since then? are you mad?" ( No, no, I am not," exclaimed Wadsworth, lift- ing his head, "I am not mad." "But you are suffering-I know it-I can read it in your countenance." "Suffering! -oh, I am indeed,"-and as Wads- worth uttered these words, there was in his tone a depth of melancholy which filled the reverend gen- tleman with pity-" and I will suffer on to the end; my vow shall not be, broken." "Pray, sir," continued Mr. Matlher, drawing his chair nearer; "tell me what was your vow? Mayhap 'tis that which has caused you to be- come like unto a ghost. The devil at times tempts us to do rash things-- making us believe we are serving the Almighty, and all in order to get us   CHARTER OAK.        29 more firmly in his clutches." For more than a min- ute Wadsworth did not answer. At length, looking full at the minister--the very fixedness of his gaze marking the struggle which it cost him to lay bare his heart-" you must know sir," he replied, "that some years ago, I fell in love with a young woman named Nancy Clark. Her mother was a gentle soul, and a member of our first church. Her father, who is still living, is a bad tempered man, and has never concealed his partiality for the Anglican form of worship. This difference in religious belief was a source of great unhappiness to his wife, and I be- lieve it was that which brought her to her grave. Well, as I have said, I fell in love with their daughter-the only child they had. I used to take long walks with her in the evenings; I made her presents; I even told her I wanted her to become my wife-once, but only once-I kissed her!" Here, Wadsworth's voice faltered, but by a strong effort he suppressed any other sign of emotion. "Well,' it was just about that time that I began turning my thoughts to the affairs of the colonies. The self-government which we enjoyed did not satisfy me; I pondered deeply over our condition, and at length I came to the conclusion that we ought to cut loose from the mother country. Well, from the moment that idea entered my mind I felt like another being. A fever seemed to seize me;   30       ROMANCE OF THE my arm was strengthened ten-fold; my ambition grew with my strength. The vision of America governing herself arose before me in a more vivid wav than I can describe. I lived in ecstasy during my waking hours ; at night my sleep was a heavenly dream. But I recognized the difficulty of achiev. ing such an end, and I spoke to Nancy Clark about it. At first, she did not appear struck .by its grandeur. It grew upon her, lhowever, yes, it grew upon her, until soon she was as full of enthusiasm as myself. Well, one morning after having passed a strange night--I call it strange because I could not tell whether I had been asleep or awaske-I found, on entering this room, a map of North America--and here it is." As Wadsworth spoke he produced the map and showed it to his guest. "This discovery," he con- tinued, "I took for a certain sign that the Lord was befriending me. 'Twas what I had been longing to possess. It showed me, as you perceive, the whole continent. Well, after I had examined it with much care, after I had feasted my eyes upon it until I scarce could see, I fell on amy knees and began to pray; and while I was praying, the thought flashed upon me that I ought to meet this proffer of divine assistance by some great sacrifice. The Almighty had stretched out His handc-what ought I to do, to bind   CHARTER OAK.       31 the covenant? And then I said, 'Oh Lord, if Thou wilt indeed help me free my native land, I will renounce the object most dear to me on earth --aye, I will give up Nancy Clark, nor will I ever take any other woman for my wife.' Well, from that day to this, by mutual consent, I have avoided her and she has avoided me; and although I have now and then been tempted to renew our former intimacy, saying a short prayer htas always strengthened me to keep my word to the Almighty." Here Wadsworth paused and knit his brow-he was coming to the hardest part of his confession. "A few' weeks ago," he continued, " there came to my house, a girl younger than Miss Clark, with far more sprightliness and enthusiasm, and in face and figure more beautiful than language can ex- press-just the being I could have sworn, if such things, were pre-ordained, to be my wife. Oh, Dr. Mather, you cannot tell what a struggle I have gone thronugh since her arrival! I meet her a dozen times a day, and as often do I tremble and call on / God for strength. But, as with Nancy Clark, prayer has overcome my passion, and beautiful though this girl is, I will stay rooted to my vow; and in return the Lordc will grant me the indepen- dence of my country." When the Captain had finished speaking, the doctor sat awhile as if digesting what he had heard;   32       ROMANCE OF THE and when at length he opened his lips, his voice showed how gravely he viewed Wadsworth's case. "Believe me, sir," he said, " the vow which you- took, is not binding--God's finger was not in it; it was the work of Beelzebub! Aye sir, you start- but I am in earnest; the devil was whispering ill your ear when you took that vow, and this map was put here by Satan. And has he not been at work on Nancy Clark?-does she show no signs of having fallen from grace? When the Evil One steps between a couple, it is often to the injury of both. Tell me, sir, does the young woman retain her for- mer godliness?" Wadsworth, at this question, shrank back from the table. It flashed upon him that perhaps Nancy's absence from meeting on the Sabbath and lecture days might be indeed the work of the arch-fiend. "'Believe me," continued the minister, with greater warmth, and lifting his hand, "believe me, Beelze- bub is stalking through the land; more and more men and women are falling under his influence. Why, in Dorchester, where I preached last mont h, there were three persons accused of witchcraft; and in Salem full as many more, and it will require renewed fervor on the part of the people to arrest a great calamity. When the imps of hell begin to take possession of us, who knows where it may end! But, Mr. Wadsworth, you have not yet replied to my   CHARTER OAK.        33 question--what sort of a life does this Nancy Clark now lead?" As Increase Mather spoke, he fixed his eye on his host, as if to discover whether the answer which he was going to make would be prompted by a pure love of truthll, or whether some remnant of affection for the young woman might not bias his words. The struggle lasted only a moment. To tell how Nancy had not for years been inside a meeting- house, to describe her lonely habits, would be cer- tain to draw on her the suspicion of the great man ; and liad she not already few enough friends?., Had not Charity Crabtree used her tongue among the Hartford gossips during the past few years, until now there were not wanting those who -believed the young woman had sAdd herself to the Evil One. "I linow nought against her, sir!" replied Wads- worth, folding his arms and boldly meeting the clergyman's gaze. "Then," continued the latter, "I urge you to take her for your wife; it will be an act of justice to one whom, pardon me for saying it, you cer- tainly deceived, albeit you were led on by a supernatural influence. New England needs godly children, and here you are a man of thirty and not one in this large house to call you father! Wrong, sir, wrong. You could serve your country better if you had a wife. So, toss to the winds your sa-   34       ROMANCE OF THE tanic vow, and renew your courtship. Nancy Clark first received your addresses, and this new comer, whose beauty it seems is so far superior to hers, should not make you hesitate a moment- Nancy Clark must be your spouse." Dr. Mather expressed himself with intense earnestness, and Wadsworth gave him an attention which he would have accorded to no other living man; for in his estimation Increase Mather was the greatest divine the world had seen for centuries, and his counsel was not to be lightly thrown away. "Dr. Mather," he said, after a rather lengthy pause, " did not Jephthah vow to the Lord that if He would deliver into his hands the children of Am- meon, then warring against Israel, that he would offer up for a burnt offering the first whd came from his home to greet him, as he returned from battle? And did it not happen that Jephthah's daughter, his only child, came first to meet him? And did he not keep his vow? Is my sacrifice greater than Jephthah's?" At this question the minister bit his lip, but quickly answered: "' Whoso findeth a wife, find- eth a good thing and obtaineth favor of the Lord,' is likewise in Holy Writ. No, no, Captain; the covenant you made is one you must not keep; the devil had a hand in it. Therefore, I repeat, and most solemnly, marry Nancy Clark!"'   CHARTER OAK.        35 At these words, Wadsworth's frame quivered, his eyes flashed. If indeed his vow was one not to be kept, could he renew his addresses to Nancy while Lydia Goffe was under his roof? "Yes," he muttered, "I will take your advice, and marry; but  " Ere he could finish the sentence, there was a knock at the door and rising from his seat, he has- tened to open it-he knew whose finger had tapped. "I only want to announce that supper is ready," said Lydia, blushing, and at the same time looking at her host with surprise-for he had caught her arm and was drawing her into the room-while the blood which for a moment colored her cheek, her full rounded form, her countenance not only beau- tiful but intellectual, caused Increase Mather to bend forward and gaze at her more sharply than he did at most young women. Having closed the door; Wadsworth presented her to the minister, and in a low tone informed him that she was the daughter of Goffe, the regi- cide. "What!" exclaimed Dr. Mather, "Goffe, who sat as one of the judges at the trial of Charles the First? Is this a child of his?" Here Wadsworth turned to Lydia, from  whose face every trace of color had suddenly vanished. "Have no fear, Miss," he said, "of my reverend   36       ROMANCE OF THE guest; T am going to tell him all about you and vour' parent." The Captain now, in a few words,- related how the girl had come to visit him; and he concluded by saying that Goffe was not only alive, but actually under his roof--"And when the evening repast is over you shall make his acquaintance. Until to-day he has generally taken his meals with us, but-" here he glanced at Lydia, " but since he has been discovered to be living with me, I have thought it best that he should not show himself below. The danger may pass over." "Discovered!" exclaimed Mr. Mather, who had risen to greet the girl. "Discovered! what do you mean?"Wadsworth now related how that verv afternoon the regicide's daughter had been informed by Nancy Clark that her father's hiding- place was known. At the mention of Nancy's name, Lydia inter- rnpted him. "Alas!" she said, " my friend is al- ready suffering for that brave act. Mr; Clark has turned her from home, and she has sought refuge with the widow Bull," Here Wadsworth pressed his hand to his brow. "Can I offer her- a shelter under my roof?" he asked himself. "Can I, can I?" Had not the ob- ject of his wild passion been standing at this mo- ment by his side, we believe that his first, generous   CHARTER OAK.       37 impulse would have prevailed, and Nancy Clark have found a happy home with him. "But, no," he groaned, "her presence would be a torture; if my vov is one which I am not bound to keep, then will I go through fire to win Lydia Goffe; I am carried away by a Power which I cannot resist. God pity me!" "This Mr. Clark then is a king's-man?" said Dr. Mather, who had not noticed his host's agonized look. "He is," said Lydia, "and a great stumb- ling-block in the Captain's path. But you will brush him aside, you will triumph"--here she turned towards her protector and pressed his hand. Her touch sent a thrill through every nerve of Wadsworth's body. "I will crush him like a worm," he exclaimed, "not a hair of your father's head shall the villain touch." "I lean upon you," murmured Lydia, " heaven bless you now and always." Yet ere the words had escaped her, she half repented of her earnest- ness-her host's eyes seemed to be devouring her -she felt his hand tremble." "Although I admire Mr. Wadsworth," she said to herself, "I- must not deceive him. He is a great man; but love him I cannot." They now left the room, and as the girl passed out, Increase Mather   38      ROMANCE OF THE thought that in. all his life he never had seen a more fascinating creature than the regicide's daughter. CHAPTER XXV. THE following morning, while Wadsworth was writing a letter to a friend in Boston, which Dr. Mather had promised to deliver, and while Goody Garlic and Lydia were up in Colonel Goffe's room, Miss Crabtree seized the opportunity to hold a private conversation with the minister. The in- difference which Lydia, almost from the moment of her arrival, had shown for her nephew, was more than the dame could any longer bear without com- plaining to somebody else besides Prudence Garlic, who from the way she had spoken the day before, seemed not a little inclined to take the girl's part. The clergyman was walking slowly back and forth, his promenade bounded at one end by the door leading into the entry, at the other by the oven in which the old maid was setting a batch of bread; while his hands were clasped behind him, and from the way he bent his head he seemed to be pondering deeply over some weighty matter. His knowledge of the people of New England was as great, if not   CHARTER OAK.       39 greater, than that which Wadsworth possessed, and while he was stubborn in opposing Andros, he yet could not contemplate the scheme which his host had unfolded to him, without much uneasiness. "Independence!" he said to himself, " aye, that is indeed a sublime idea; but I am afraid the Cap- tain is ahead of the age. What rivers of blood would have to flow to accomplish it! Has he re- flected on the power which Sir ,Edmund has to back him r Would our train-bands be a match for the disciplined warriors England would send against us?-and she would sacrifice her last man, spend her last penny to keep us dependent? I would have more hope if the union of the colonies was what it used to be. But alas, it is now' all but destroyed, and I fear Wadsworth's attempt at revolution will only end in fastening the chains more tightly upon us." Here the minister suddenly raised his head. "Nevertheless," he continued, "I shall not oppose the Captain; it is a sublime idea -a country governing -itself and extending from ocean to ocean. Sooner or later his dream will come true. Aye, Mr. Wadsworth shall have my voice to help him, albeit my judgment tells me the time has not come." While he was thus soliloquizing, Miss Crabtree's grey eyes would now and again glance towards him. She felt a little embarrassed how to begin the con-   40      '!OMANCE OF THE versation; yet she must not delay too long; her nephew, or Prudence, or somebody else might ap- pear at any moment, and then her chance for a pri- vate interview would be gone. Suddenly, an inge nious thought struck her. Opening the cupboard, she took her dream-book off the top shelf, then, as if by accident, let it fall on the floor, and, as it fell, exclaimed, "Oh dear, that's my dream-book!"' Doctor Mather looked round, and with an ap- proving nod told her he was glad that she kept a record of her dreams; and as he spoke, he stretched out his hand and took the manuscript, which she had hastened to pick up and offer him. "Oh ves, I believe in dreams, sir," said the dame, smoothing her apron and feeling intensely flattered. "Aye, good woman, we are surrounded at all hours, awake and asleep, by the supernatural; and I am even now preparing a work, of which I shall send you a copy when completed, wherein are given many remarkable Providences." Here he glanced a moment at the manuscript, then gave another ap- proving nod. "I am pleased to find," he continued, "that you once awoke out of a dream in a terrible fright, having heard a peal of thunder, and that when chided for your screams, you declared that the devil was the author of thunder and lightning. Surely Satan, when he has the vapors and mate- rials out of which the thunder and lightning are   CHARTER OAK.        41 generated, has the art to bring them into form. If chemists can make their aurum fulminous, what strange things may not the infernal chemist effect? The holy scriptures intimate as much as this cori- oth to. In the sacred story concerning Job, we find that Satan did raise a great wind which blew down the house where Job's children were feast- ing, and it is said that the fire of God fell from the heavens and burnt up the sheep and the servants. This was no doubt thunder and lightning!" As he had gone on speaking Miss Crabtree had felt more and more flattered, yet at the same timne she feared the learned minister might continue ma- king comments on her dreams--of which she had a record of dear knows how many-and thus prevent her saying to him what she wanted; and he did go on and read at least four pages of her book, when the dame hit upon a second ingenious method of drawing his attention. "Last night, sir," she said, lowering her voice, "I had a strange vision about somebody who is living in this house. I dreamt about Miss Goffe; I give you her true name, for I'm sure my Joe has not kept it from you." "Pray, what was your dream.?" exclaimed the minister, at once giving her all his attention;for JrLydia had made such a deep impression upon him, * See Mather's Remarkable Providences.   42       ROMANCE OF THE that -anything relating to her must needs, he thought, be worth hearing. "Lord, pardon my fib!" groaned Charity, "but being as I've commenced, I must finish." Then, clearing, her throat, and putting on as solemn a face as she could: "I thought, sir, that I saw my nephew walking by the side of Miss Goffe, towards the meeting-house. Joe was persuading her to go with him to divine service; and oh! how earnestly he did beg her to own the covenant. But she appeared undecided. Well, on and on they went, until just as they reached the green, where the house of worship stands, I saw another figure glide swiftly up, and put her mouth to Lydia's ear as if to whisper something. And lo! the regicide's daughter immediately turned away from my ne- phew, and walked off, accompanied by this figure. At that moment I awoke, with a loud, mocking laughter ringing in my ears." "A dream of bad omen!" said Dr. Mather, shak- ing his head. "Does the girl go to church?" Miss Crabtree made no response; but her expres- sion, as she shrugged her shoulders, spoke as plain- ly as words, exactly what she thought. "Do you guard her carefully when she goes out?" continued the minister. "I try to-I ain't to blame." "But you seem to intimate that she has already   CHARTER OAK.       43 fallen from grace; be frank, good woman, this girl is too precious a flower to be lost." For a moment, Miss Crabtree paused; she seem- ed as if loth to repeat any tales about Lydia, and the clergyman had to urge her once more to be frank with him. "Well," she continued, heaving a deep sigh, "1 will be frank, sir. She's beautiful, aye, uncommon beautiful, as you may perceive with half an eye, and smart, too, and I once had hopes of seeing a match between her and my nephew-she'd be just the girl to make him happy, if-if she-well, I won't be too hard on Miss Lydia, if she only showed a more docile spirit, and went to meeting." "What! has Miss Goffe gone so far astray?" and as the doctor spoke, he raised his eyebrows, and clasp- ed his hands. "I wonder at this ; for, from my conversation with her father last evening, and in- deed from what I had already heard of him before we met, I believed that he was a most religi- ous man; but alas! he has failed in his duty to- wards his child." "It is not the old gentleman's fault," pursued Charity; "I don't blame even my friend Pru- dence Garlic, who is considered like a mother to the girl, and who should never have allowed her to go out of her sight. You must know, Dr. Ala- ther, that there is a young woman living in this   "4      ROMANCE OF THE town, who has been a cause of scandal for years past; she openly defies the titling-man-a good- natured, weak-minded individual, with only one eye, which he takes good care not to turn towards the sinner-she is never seen at meeting, while from the way she holds aloof from the .rest of the folks, I've begun to think she is under an evil in- fluence. There are witches around, and it would not surprise me if she were one." ' Her name, her name?" inquired the minister. "Nancy Clark-the figure I saw in my, dream ;" and as the old maid uttered these words she closed her eyes a little, then put her finger to her lips, for the door of the library was opening. In another moment, Wadsworth stood before them, looking more cheerful than usual. The ex- citement caused by the doctor's visit would alone have sufficed to bring the color to his cheeks; but the thought that his vow was one which he might break without committing sin, that the way lay open to marry Lydia if she would have him, was what gave to his whole appearance such an "air of feverish joy. As he left his study, he whistled once or twice, then called Miles; but the dog did not re- spond to his summons. "He was not in my room last night," he said, " nor did I hear his bark out- side, strange!" "Glad of it," muttered his aunt; "very glad of it."   CHARTER OAK.       45 She had scarcely spoken when the outer door opened, and the tramp of many feet announced the advent of visitors. In they came, a stern, heavy- beardedl throng, every man dressed in his best suit, and at their head Israel Barebones, who, whatever certain members of the train-band might think of him, had acquired among the people an influence nearly equal to that of Wadsworth;not so much perhaps on account of his age and religious habits, as because he had aimed to make his stronghold the women, who,'if they did not go to town-meet- ings were nevertheless the true rulers of Hartford. The good man's right foot was bandaged in flan- nel, and this as well as the stick on which he lean- ed, caused Wadsworth to ask what accident had befallen him. But Israel Barebones was not one to complain of his sufferings, especially when his conscience told him that they were well deserved, and he replied to the Captain's question by waving his hand and saying, "'tis something, sir, for which I am thankful ;-pray do not pity me, do not even notice fiy foot again." At-this answer, those who were nearest him gave one another inquiring looks. and wondered what he could mean. But Tom Hubbard put his hand to his mouth and laughed, then exchanged winks with Adams. In a few minutes, the last of the visitors had   "      R OINANOE OF THE entered; then, at a sign from her nephew, Miss Crabtree -withdrew to the upper story, where she took a position sufficiently near the head of tile steps, to hear all that might be said below. The next quarter of an hour was devoted to shaking hands with the minister; and considering that these same people had almost shaken his wrist off the evening before, the present ceremony was borne by him with wonderful good nature. When it was over, Wadsworth requested his guest to favor the visitors with a few remarks, to which doctor Mather assented, and the foilowing may be taken as the substance of what he said: "My good friends, I have no words to express th6 gratitude I feel for the warm welcome of yes- terday, as well as fdr this unexpected compliment; and much do I regret that my stay among you is to be so brief. Even this very day, or at furthest 'to-morrow morning, my steps must be directed to- wards Boston. But to the last hour of my life the ringing of your meeting-house bell, which so joy- ously announced my arrival, will sound in nly ears and keep fresh the memory of my visit to Hart- ford." Here Tom Hubbard clapped his hands, and was on the point of giving one of his horrid cat-calls, when his father's eye warned him to keep quiet.   CHARTER OAK.       47 "I came here," pursued the clergyman, " to con- sult with the captain of your train-band about the condition of the colonies, and this shall now be the subject of my remarks. As you know, New Eng- land is in a sad condition. We believed when., Mr. Dudley was sent to govern us, that we should be put to no further trial. But an all-wise Providence has seen fit to allow Beelzebub to take entire possession of the King, who has lately, sent over a new Governor, compared with whom Mr. Dudley was an honest man. The very flag which Sir Ed- mnund Andros has brought ,is enough to make my heart bleed, for it bears a popish emblem upon it-a cross! Indeed it would not surprise me were Andros a papist in disguise." Here a groanrang through the assemblage, and Wadsworth's flashing eye met the savage glance of Mad Adams. "Then again the troops which have accompanied him," continued the speaker, " dd nothing but drink and blaspheme, and by their lustful ways deeply afflict the godly people of Boston. Moreover, the charter of Massachussetts has been declared null and void; aud when the Bay is forced to submit, Plymouth, Rhode Island, and your own Plantation must needs show a most determined front if ye do not wish to lose your charter likewise." "By Jehovah," cried Adams, striking his breast, "I'm ready for Andros; let him come."   48       ROMANCE OF THE "I verily believe," continued the minister, "ye shall sin against the Lord of Heaven if ye vote to submit. The scripture teaches ye otherwise. That which the Lord your God has givenyou, shall ye not possess it? God forbid that ye should give away the inheritance of your fathers. Nor would it be wisdom for ye to comply. If ye make a full and entire resignation to pleasure, ye fall into the hands of men immediately; but if ye do not, ye still keep yourselves in the hands of God. And who knows what God may do for ye? Therefore, I urge ye to be brave and do not tamely bow your necks to the yoke. I came here to awaken ye to the dangers ahead ; let me depart in the belief that ye are brave and determined men." For several minutes after he had finished speaking, there was a hum of voices; the people were earnestly dis- cussing his words, and the white locks of the ruling elder might have been seen moving hurriedly to and fro ; the good man was evidently anxious about Athe effect which the address might have on the free- men. At length, he commanded silence, then after closing his eyes and breathing a short prayer, spoke as follows: "My brethren, with all my reverence and love for Increase Mather, I differ with him as to the course which ye ought to pursue in these unhappy days. He would have ye take up arms, but why not leave   CHARTrER OAK.       49 it- all to God. He who piloted the Mayflower across a broad and stormy ocean, will not abandon ye now. Trust in the Lord! He will deliver ye with- out using sword and powder. What- ye are suffer- ing, and may yet suffer, take as a penance for your sins. My counsel is--do not oppose Sir Edmund Andros ; but while ye submit, redouble your fasting and prayers. Let him not drive ye to rebel. Dr. lather has told you that Massachusetts, the strongest colony, has been deprived of her chanrtei; how then can we keep ours } We could not prevail against King James' armies and fleets, and the desolation which would come cover the land would be indescribable. It is therefore to counsel ye against rebellion which has caused me to raise my voice in opposition to Dr. Mather, whom I revere as much as any of ye. The rock is not harder to break than my Puritan faith. Episcopacy I hate as I hate the devil; but I love ye too dearly to see ye take a mad step, without speaking plainly all that is in my heart.. Again I sax, trust in the Lord; and instead of seeking bloodshed, I would urge Mr. Mather to go to King James and tell him of the injustice which he has done these poor colo-- nies. To appear at, court and plead for us would be a daring act; but even as Daniel was left un- harimed by the lions, even so would our great di- vide be respected by our enemies at court. Yea,   50       ROMANCE OF THE God will walk at his side. I know that Andros has forbidden any one to leave the country without per- mission, and it will be no easy matter to reach England; but He who led the Israelites dryshod across the Red Sea, will provide a means for In- crease Mather to escape from our tyrant Governor. Therefore, lay aside your muskets and pikes, and trust in the Omnipotent God; instead of seeking for independence, as Mr. Wadsworth would have ye, devote your whole attention to religious mat-J ters, now alas wofully neglected." At these words, Tom Hubbard slipped into the entry, where he was soon joined by Mad Adams; and Mr. Japheth ]lad better have followed theim lad's example, for presently, Israel Barebones in- quired if he were in the room; and when some one pointed him out, the ruling elder raised himself an inch higher on his toes, and administered a lecture to the tithing-man, such as the latter had never be- fore received. "You do not enforce the Sabbath law," cried Mr. Barebones; "  beware, beware, or the Lord will snatch you away and send you to hell in the twink- ling of an eye." Poor Mr. Japheth groaned and would have given all he possessed in the world--not much, it is true-if only the floor could have opened and let him down into the cellar.   CHARTER OAK.       51 "Because," went on the ruling elder, " an acci- dent has deprived you of the use of one of your orbs, you make that an excuse for not detecting the sinner. Oh, Jacob Japheth, Jacob Jatpheth, do your duty, or God's hand will be upon you!" Then taking his gaze off the cobbler, he spoke to the people about having an iron cage erected for sabbath-breakers-and here the speaker's counten- ance-becamne fairly radiant, it was the joy of a fan- atic. As for Wadsworth, it was not easy to tell what his thoughts were. Nobody was more scru- pulous than he in obeying the laws of the Church; but were he to behold Nancy Clark in a -cage at the meeting-house door, would he have the grace to pass by and say, "Well done?" When Mr. Barebones had finished his address, the Captain was in hopes that he would accompany Dr. Mather into the library, where they might argue together the great question of independence. But thie heart of the ruling elder was too full of re- ligious matters to care about discussing aught re- lating to this world; and while the visitors were making their way out of the house he hobbled up to the minister and urged him to call on a few of the sabbath-breakers, at the same time offering to be his guide. "But are you not too lame, sir?" inquired the divine, gazing down at the bandaged foot.   52       ROM3ANCE OF THE "If I could come here," responded Israel Bare- bones " to pay my respects to a human being, ought I to think it a hardship the going a greater distance to serve the Almighty?" In about five minutes the last of the freemen, who had come to call on Increase Mather,- had ce- parted, and Wadsworth stood in the entry waiting for the' minister, who was listening to something Mr. Barebones was telling him--and whenever the divine would shake his head and appear astonished, the Captain would grind his teeth and mutter harsh things of the ruling elder, for the latter, he knew, was speaking of Nancy Clark. At length, they sallied forth on their inquisitorial tour-the grey ayes of Charity Crabtree following them as far as the grien; and her countenance beaming with joy, for she guessed where they were going. As they passed the Bunch of Grapes, Wadsworth caught a glimpse of Adams peeping out of one of the windows, and looking dark as a thunder-cloud; nor did the scout pay any heed to his chief when the latter made him a sign to join them, but con- tinued muttering curses upon the ruling elder, whose peaceful address had nettled him fearfully. "If Captain Joe," he growled, "after all the trouble he has had in organizing an iusurrection, allows this religious old fool to talk him out of it, then--"But we shall not repeat Adams' blasphem-   CHARnTEn OAK.        53 ous words; let us follow the captain of the train-band, who went bv the tavern with a heavy heart, and who did not open his lips until he reached the green. Here Wadsworth's thoughts turned upon the gallant fellows whom he had so often drilled, and he was about launching forth into praises of their skill and bravery, when the ruling elder inter- rupted him by seizing the minister's arem and draw- ing the latter towards the jail. "It is empty," said the good man with a sorrow- full voice, " and these stocks might as well be used for fire wood, and so might that locust tree in which those rings are fastened. Alas! sinners in Hartford grow fat on their transgressions." "What has brought about this unhappy con- dition of souls?" inquired the minister-who, to speak true, began to think Mr. Barebones not a little of a bore. Giving our minds to the affairs of this world, instead of dwelling on Zion. Politics, sir, and wild schemes for throwing off allegiance to the mother country," responded the other, with a glance at the Captain. "And perhaps those whose duty it is to look after the flock have become negligent," said the divine, meaning this as a sly hit at the fault- finder. "Well, my conscience is clear," rejoined Mr. '.   54       ROMANCE OF THE Barebones; "not a family in Hartford that'I do not visit, and my inspections are thorough. Our one-eyed tithing-man, however, by, always turning his blind side towards the sinner hath done much to place the flock in the hands of Beelzebub." "Bless Jacob Japheth," murmured Wadswortl, who, strict as he was himself in observing all the church laws, could not share in this attack upon the good man; for what might not have befallen Nancy Clark if Mr. Japheth had strictly performued his duty? Would not her habit of breaking the sabbath have brought her into trouble? "Aye,'" he repeated, " bless Jacob Japheth." After leaving the green they continued on to. wards Little river, and as they approached the stream, Mr Barebones stretched out his crane-like neck and gazed at the willow near the bi-nk. If the empty jail, and the unused stocks' and whipping- post were signs that the discipline of the church in Hartford had grown lax, what would Mr. Mather say when he looked on the rickety ducking- tool, which the ruling elder was now straining his eyes to find. There stood the willow--a piece of decayed rope dangling from the limb which stretched over the water--but where Was the chair? As he gazed the goodman's jaw fell, and his face assumed such an expression that the minister looked at him in wonder.   CHARTER OAK.       55 "Somebody' hath been serving the devil," he ex- claimed; " oar ducking-stool has been cut adrift." "Ah, indeed!" said Dr. Mather, lifting his eye- brows, and on the whole rather pleased at this new source of unhappiness to the speaker. "But we shall have another one put up at once," cried Mr. Barebones, " aye, at once"-pulling out of his pocket the paper on which was the drawing of his improved ducking-stool. For the next five minutes and until they had passed Mr. Clark's hlouse--which Wadsworth had intended pointing out to his reverend gtiest-the ruling elder kept the latter's attention close fixed upon the drawing, every part of which was pressed by his cold fore- finger; nor was the clergyman allowed to take his eyes off it until he had confessed that it was a vast improvement on the old chair and rope. Mr. Bare- bones had now worked himself into a great state of excitement; his ash-colored cheeks had a tinge of red upon them, and he walked without limping. This sudden change in his appearance was caused by the hope of seeing his ducking-stool immediately brought into use, and before they arrived at the widow's he-had come to the conclusion that it was a special Providence- which had cut the old chair adrift-in order that a better one might be brought into the service of the Lord. Presently, they reach- ed the log cabin, but before knocking, Mr. Bare-   56       ROMANCE OF THE bones halted and informed Dr. -Mather whom they were going to visit. He touched briefly on the life of Mrs. Bull since the death of Captaii Bull, her absence from meeting until quite recently, her fondness for dress, and her blustering ways. "She is as often asleep as listening to the exllor- tation," he said, "and a Sabbath or two ago, her nose was tickled by. the tithing-man's rod." He then went on to relate how a young woman hamed Nancy Clark had lately taken up her residence with her, and that she likewise was a sabbath- breaker; but more hardened even than the widow, for she had not yet mnended her ways ever so little. At this allusion to Nancy, Wadsworth bit his lip and wished the tell-tale ruling elder at the bottom of the sea. Dr. Mather, however expressed no surprise at this information; nevertheless he did think very strange that a man as upright and relioious as Wads- worth should have given him such a different account of this young woman. The Captain might be right in his judgment of her, yet there was arrayed against him the ruling elder of his church and his own aunt, whose last dream had imade a great im- pression on the doctor's mind. We will hIere in- form the reader that such domiciliary visits as thfey were about to make, were far from uncommilon in those days. The ministers, the selecten, the grand jurors, all had the right to enter into any   CHAETER OAK.       57 person's dwelling, and satisfy themselves as to the spiritual and moral condition of the family; but especially was this a duty of the Lruling elder-and Mr. Barebone's inspections, as he hiniself has told us, were always thorough. ' Whenl the good man had given all the information he thought necessary about the inmates of the cabin, he knocked on the door, and during the few moments they were wait- ing for it to open, his countenance took an ex- pression which Raphael,or- Michael Angelo would have given anything to have had on canvas, or in maible-it was so full of burning zeal, so radiant with fanatic joy. Visions of ducking-stools, and whipping-posts, of gibbets for witches, were danc- ing through his brain, and his eyes had a glare which made Dr. Mather believe he was in a frenzy. When, presently, the door opened, Wadsworth was the last to enter-nor did he look up at the young woman who was greeting them; but Miles Standish, who had already found his way here, wagged his tail, licked' the Captain's hand and showed, dog:fashion, how glad he was to see his master. Still Wadsworth did not lift his eyes. "I can't help thinking she knows all about it," he said to himself.  "How she must despise me!"He re- membered how;e cheerfully Nancy had submitted to his vow of celibacy; how she had even expressed her delight at his covenant with the Lord. And   58       ROMANCE OF THE now he was going to break it! oh, how Wadsworth's conscience stiUng him at this moment. Increase Mather had told him his vow need not be kept, and this barrier, once removed, could he overcome his passion for Lydia Goffe? Alas, this he felt he could not do, and already remorse, black remorse was beginning to gnaw into his soul. Hard, unre- lenting, worm!"If any one is to be my wife, it should be Nancy," he groaned. "But no--no-1 am a poor, weak wretch not worthy even of God's pity." The unexpected coming of so many visitors, among whom she recognized the great man in whose honor the meeting-house bell had rung out such joyous peals the evening before, made the young woman blush. But quickly recovering her self-possession, she bade them take a seat on a bench, then hastened to call Mrs. Bu 1, who had gone out a moment to the well. But ere she reached the threshold, Israel Barebones checkee her. "Stay, Miss Clark," he said, "We have- come t( inquire into your spiritual condition, and the pes ence of the widow is not necessary." At these words, Nancy turned deadly pale, and glancing at Wadsworth, in whom she hoped to find a protector, wondered why he kept his eyes averted. "Remain calm," continued the inquisitor, "and   CHANTER OAK.       59 truthfully answer the questions which I am going to put to you." Here he coughed and rubbed his throat. "First, how long is it since you have studied the Assembly Catechism?" "I read half of it, yesterday, sir," replied Nancy in a firm voice. Wadsworth now, for the first time, looked at her, and his countenance showed how much her answer had pleased him. "Let us see," continued the goodman, with a faint smile, and his heart throbbing at the pros- pect of an easy victory over the father of lies, who lhe believed was speaking through Nancy's mouth. "Let me see!"Then drawing from his pocket a small volume he handed it to Dr. Mather. But the latter told him that he had better go on and examine the young woman himself. Accordingly, Mfr. Barebones connmmenced, his eyebrows raised as high as they could get, and half pitying Miss Clark, whose calm bearing he attributed to the devil. But although he put the questions at random, skip- ping from the first to one in the middle of the book, ; Nancy gave correct responses to all of them, nor did she once hesitate. In fact, she showed herself so perfectly familiar with the catechism, that Dr Mather told Mr. Barebolles he need go no further. The ruling elder obeyed, crumpling the leaves of the book as he returned it to his pocket, and groaning at this unexpected triumph of the   60      ROMANCE OF THE Evil One, who of course had whispered the ans- wers. "How happeneth it, Miss Clarkl," he continued, after saying a prayer to drive away the devil, " how happeneth it you never come to meeting on the Sabbath?"To this Nancy made no reply. She loved her father, cruel though he was, and -nought would she let pass her lips which might be used against him. "Answer!" exclained Mr. Barebones. "Why, for so many years, have you persisted in breaking the Lord's day, to the scandal of every man, wo- man and child in Hartford?" Still Nancy remained mute, while the catechiser smiled triumphant!y-Satan, he thought, was cor- nered at last. "I know the reason," exclaimed Wadsworth, who felt tempted to choke the fanatic; "Yes, I know the reason!" Instantly, Nancy put her finger to her lips and gave the Captain an imploring look. This sign of an understanding between them so astonished MSr. Barebones as well as the clergyman, that for more than a minute neither of them spoke a word. What Satanic communication might this be? Had the strict and pious Wadsworth fallen under a spell? Was Beelzebub working upon him through this young woman? They had scarcely recovered from their wonder when a large cat came down   CHARTER OAK.       61 from the upper story, and jumping on the table, seated itself upon a volume lying there. The ruling elder, whose mind was always disposed to see the- supernatural in the most trivial incident, immediately bade the creature begone in the name of the Lord; after which he took up the book and opened it. It was the widow's copy of Shakes- peare. "F]rom the snares of the devil, O Lord de- liver us!" he cried, letting the book drop out of his hands. "What work is that?" inquired Dr. Mather. "'One forbidden to be read--lewd-full of pro- fane language-foul in the extreme. I wonder not that those who peruse it stay away from meeting." "Is it a quaker tract?" continued the ministers stretching out his hand. "Allow me to see." "You'd not touch it with the tip of your finger," replied ]Ir. Barebones. ' 'Tis Shakespeare!" "Shakespeare!" repeated Mr. M3ather. "Has a copy of his works found its way as far as this? it must be destroyed; throw it into the fire at once." The ruling elder cheerfully obeyed; then as the leaves were twisting and crumbling in the flame, he asked Nancy Clark if the book had belonged to her. The young woman was tempted to say Yes; for she wished to take upon herself all the blame, rather than have it fall on the head of the kind-   62       ROMANCE OF THE hearted widow. But even for the sale of Mrs. Bull she could not tell a falsehood, so she remained mute. "She will not answer," exclaimed the ruling elder, "Beelzebub hath sent a dumb spirit into her." As he uttered these words, Nancy gave him a look of withering scorn, while her bosom heaved. At the same time Wadsworth approached nearer to her; he could not bear to have this scene go any further; to do violence to Mr. Barebones was out of the question, but at least he might leave the house and take, the young woman with him. Such was his intention when suddenly the door opened and Mrs. Bull appeared. The sight of so many visitors-one of whom was seated on the- bench, two standing close to Nancy-caused the dame to lift her eyebrows. What did it all mean-? The young woman was evidently in trouble ; the coun- tenance of Mr. Barebones wore the- same expres- sion as when under his supervision the constable had ducked Hannah Otis in Little river; Wads- worth, if his lowering eyebrows indicated anything, was in no gentle mood; while the clergyman, whoml she guessed to be Increase Mather, gave her only a glance, then turned his eyes again towards the fire-place. "What's going on here?" she exclaimed, quick- ly recovering from her embarra ssment, and her ire   CHATIT ER OAK.   -  63 roused to its highest pitch by the sight of the burn- ing book and the disturbed expression of Nancy. "Tell me, Miss, what -have they been doing? What's that yonder?" pointing towards her smoul- dering Shakespeare. The young woman could not utter a word; but Israel Barebones, raising him- self on his toes, responded for her. "'We have come, Mrs. Bull," le said, "to purify your dwel- ling, to search out the nooks and corners wherein Satan hideth himself. Even at this moment-" here he pointed at Nancy-" she is possessed by a dumb spirit; but we'll draw the imp out!" "Well, it aint a dumb devil that's in me. " re- turned the widow, advancing in a threatening man- ner, while at the same time she thrust her hand into her pocket. "No, no, indeed." "Wretched woman," continued Mr. Barebones, "Off with these gaudy ribbons, and give thanks to God that we have destroyed a sinful book." He had scarcely spoken when the dame drew forth a coil of rope-the same tarry piece which she kept as a relic of the Polly Ann-and flourish- ing it over his head, "I'll do something better than take off my ribbons," she screamed, her rage now quite ungovernable. "1By all the sharks! as my dear, dead husband used to say, I'll teach you what it is to enter uninvited an honest woman's house! You have burnt my Shakespeare, but I know it by   "      ROMANCE OF THE heart. Here's from Henry the Fourth-' Away, you cut-purse rascal! you filthy bung, away! away, you bottle-ale rascal! you basket-hilt, stale juggler you!'- and her speech was accompanied by such violent blows on Mr. Barebones' shoulders, that the good man did not wait to manifest his pity for her, but ran to the door with a speed which did not slacken for a bandaged foot; while Nancy turned towards the window, and throwing it open made Wadsworth and the clergyman a hurried sign to escape. They obeyed with an alacrity which was anything but dignified--Increase Mather jumping out first, and the Captain without waiting to free his coat from a nail which had caught in it and made a very ugly tear; but his hurry saved him from a sound castigation. Mrs. Bull did not pursue the ruling elder further than the threshold, then turned to punish the others. "Oh, Nancy, you're too- good to live," she cried, when she saw the open window, " why did you let 'em escape? By all the sharks, I'd have whipped some practical theology into Dr. Mather, and. I'd have made Joseph Wac1, worth learn a lesson of independence which might have been of use to him. Ha wants us, forsooth, to rebel against King James! Better first, over- turn our fanatical church laws. Oh, Nancy, Nancy, you're too good to live! I say, why did you let 'em escape?" But the young woman did not   CHARTER OAK.        65 reply; she had thrown herself on the bench, and was giving full flow to her tears, while Miles Stand- ish, with his head on her lap, was gazing up at her in his peculiar, solemn way. "Oh, wouldn't I have thrashed the other two," continued the widorw; "ha! ha! ha!"Then pressing the rope to her lips, dlear relic of the Polly Ann," she said, "you'll make Israel Barebones' coat smnell of tar for a month."' The good  woman  now  seated herself beside Nancy and endeavored to comfort her. "They've been catechizing you," she said, " and warning you about not going to meeting. Oh, yes, I'm sure they have, damn 'em!" At these words Nancy started. "  My dear, dead husband used that ex- pression once in a while," pursued the widow. "It kind of flurries you 'cause you ain't used to it; but, Nancy, it eases me to say it-it lets the hurri- cane out of my bosom. Aye, damn these ruling elders, teachers, ministers, grand jurors, damn 'emr all. The only decent man in town is Jacob Japh- eth. But he won't be tithing-man much longer; they're after him because iie turns his blind side towards those who don't toe the mark. They'd rather you'd not reach Zion at- all unless you travelled their way. Damn 'em!" "Had you not better fly to the woods? or go to Manhadoes?" said Nancy, drying her tears, andl   "OMANCE OF THE not a little shocked by Mrs. Bull's language. "After what has happened, can you remain another day in Hartford?" "Let'm do their worst," continued the other, "Let'em duck me till I'm drowned. I'm a sea captain's widow, and I'll go down with colors fly. ing, just as the Polly Ann did in the hardest gale that ever blow'd on Cape Cod; yes, by all the sharks, I will." Then bowing her head, she again pressed the rope to her lips and murmured, "my dear, dear husband.'" In vain did Nancy urge her to change her place of residence--in vain. The dame swore--yes, swore, for she was in no godly mood-that she would stay just where she was. "I'll lay to," she cried, "I'll founder, but I shan't save myself by scudding. The Polly Ann never showed her stern to a hurricane, and I won't either." CHAPTER XXVI. THS unlooked-for ending of their visit to the widow Bull so incensed Increase Blather, that he refused to accompany Wadsworth to see the field which the town had granted for school purposes,   CHARTER OAK.       67 and of which Andros had lately given a deed to Nathaniel Clark. "I'm in no humor to see more of Hartford, sir," exclaimed the divine. "A community wh6rein dwelleth a woman such as we have just visited, needs something more than schools to elevate it. There is profanity, sinful reading matter, deception ,! where I expected only godliness." "Deception!" said Wadsworth. "Aye, forgive me; but I can use no other ex- pression," pursued the minister. "I was told by your ownself that Miss Nancy Clark was a good Christian, and I advised you to take her for your wife-but lo! it turns out she is a sabbath-breaker, dwelleth with a sinner, and-". "Ought to be placed in a cage," interrupted Mr. Barebones, limping up. Wadsworth folded his arms and gave the ruling elder a fierce glance-which, however the good mnan did not notice-then, presently, putting his mouth to the doctor's ear, " when we are alone," he whspered, "I will say more to you ; now I keep silent." This, undoubtedly, was the wisest course for the Captain to pursue--Mr. Barebones during the past half hour had deeply wouncled his feel- ings; never would he forgive the ruling elder's harsh behavior towards Nancy; and if he now al- lowed himself to enter into a discussion with the fanatic, he might compromise himself by some rash   68       ROMANCE OF THE expression, if not by some act scarcely less violent than that whereby the widow had freed herself from their presence. In a few minutes more, the party had so far re- traced their steps as to have arrived again opposite the humble abode of Jacob Japheth, where they found Lydia standing by the door with a basket on her arm, filled with cakes and good thngs for the tithing-man's children.' She and Mr. Japheth were conversing in undertones, and from the way the latter kept shaking his head, you could tell that something had gone wrong. "Never mind," the girl was saying, " never mind; God will help you." Then, of a sudden, she stopped, for she had dis- covered the eyes of Wadsworth, Dr. Mather, and Israel Barebones fastened upon her. "She must be saved," whispered the minister to the Captain, " your aunt's dream- must not come true."  Wadsworth started, and was on the point of asking his guest what he meant, when the ruling elder interrupted him. "If this girl," said the latter, "could be made to own the covenant she'd be a' perfect angel on earth." Then turning towards Lydia, c' Good  morning, Miss," he continued "good morning. Onsome charitable errand bent?' For a moment, Lydia faced the speaker with a look which would have made any one else lower his eyes, and which told as plainly as any language   CHARTER OAK.       69 she could have used, in what contempt she held him. Presently, the good man's icy middle-finger was stretched towards her; this was more than she could bear, and without opening her lips, she turned her back on him and entered the cobbler's hlouse. "What means this?"  exclaimed the divine. "Are we witnessing the contagion of evil?" "Our friend here," responded Mr. Barebones, turning towards Jacob Japheth, "must indeed awake from his lethargy. Religion is at a low ebb, when people not only stay openly away from meet- ing, but treat with gross disrespect their ruling elder." At these words the tithing-man bowed his head as if he were expecting to receive a blow. He knew how remiss he had been in performing his duty, and that if he escaped with nothing worse than a lecture he might indeed congratulate him- self; but he had reason to fear that a more severe punishment would ere long be meted out to him. "Alas," he sighed," my days as tithing-man are numbered." "In Ipswich and other towns of Massachusetts," continued Dr. lMather, " a tithing-man, who would allow any person to break the Lord's day, would be dismissed at once, while those who might have profited by his indulgence would be set in iron cages. Oh, Mr. Japheth, you may thank your stars   70      ROMANCE OF THE that you are living in Hartford." "And you know, Jacob," put in the ruling elder, " that I have time and again warned you to do your duty. If Nancy Clark's soul be damned will you be held guiltless before the Lord?"At these words the poor fellow groaned. "And if through the intimacy which exists between her and the girl you have just been conversing with, the latter become also a sab- bath-breaker, will you not be responsible for two souls instead of one? Oh, Jacob, I speak as a friend, as a brother. My own conscience would rack me if I held my tongue. To save souls is man's noblest duty; wake up, wake up, speak out your contrition! Slowly Mr. Japheth raised his head. But humbled as he was and fully pursuaded of his sinfulness, his jovial nature still lingered in the corners of his mouth and in his twinkling eye; -so much so that Dr. Mather half believed he was only shamming humility. "I know I've done wrong," he replied; " but do not be too hard on me, do not have me turned out of office; I am poor; in this little cottage lies a bed-ridden wife; work is slack, favor me with your indulgence." "Henceforth, then, you will do your duty?" pur- sued Mr. Barebones. "Promise me that, and Jacob, I am the last man to go against you. Promise me that henceforward every sabbath-breaker shall be   CHARTER OAK.       71 driven to the meeting-house, and you will find me your truest friend. But if you Will not make such a promise, then must we have another tithing-man; even this very morning I consulted about the mat- ter witeh Mr Genress and our minister, but we came to no fixed decision. Speak, Jacob, speak out, say 'yes, I will do my duty.'  But Mr. Japheth remained mute. "The road to Zion is a rough road!" he said to himself, again bowing his head. "Aye, a very, very rough road. Oh, Lord, Lord!" Here Wadsworth took Dr. Mather's arm and drew him away. The truth is the Captain was at last thoroughly disgusted with Mr. Barebones, and did not care to wait and see what might be the result of the lecture. He doubted, however, whether Jacob Japheth would give in and promise to become more strict. Twice, as they proceeded along the street, Wadsworth turned and gazed towards the tithing-man's cabin, and as he did so hoped to find Lydia following them.- But the girl did not appear. She was en- gaged in her charitable work, distributing cakes and tarts to the poor man's children, speaking words of comfort to the bed-ridden wife, and had no idea of returning to his house for an hour or more. When the Captain got home, he found Pru- dence and Miss Crabtree engaged in a violent dis- pute about so:mthing, and it required all the rev-     72       ROMANCE OF THE erence which his aunt felt for Dr. Mather to make her holid her tongue. But even the minister's pres- ence could not calml her all at once, and her top- knot continued jerking backwards and forwards for several minutes after he had entered. "Prudence, Prudence!" she kept saying between her teeth, "you've spoilt the girl; aye!  iss Lydia's spoilt, ruined, -unless she owns the coven- ant. i And she's taken away my best basket too. I'll never see it again!" TWhile she was thus giving vent to her rage, Pru- dence slipped up the staircase, and presently Wads- worth, without stopping to ask what was the mat- ter, ushered his guest into the library. As they went out of the room, Charity stopped her angry mutterings and eyed them  closely. Oh, What would she have given if her nephew had only in- vited her into this forbidden chamber!"Well, if I can't see I can hear," she said, gliding to the door and putting her ear to the key-hole. But just as they had/ taken their seats and were entering into conver- sation, she heard Prudence coming down the stair- case; so with as little noise and with as much speed as possible she went back to her oven, where she made believe she had been steadily at work. Yet at the same time her ears tingled, for -she was afraid lest the other might have detected her eaves-dropping.   CH tr'TEr, O0K.      73 In the menmrhile, Wadsworth proceeded to ex- plain to )Dr. Mather how Nancy Clark had been situated since her -mother's death ; how that good woman and Mr. Clark had disagreed on the sub- ject of religion-he being an Anglican; how the daughter since her mother's death had, without doubt, been forbidden to' attend meeting; and he finished his apology for the young woman by re- minding his guest that it was she who had warned Biss Goffe of her parent's danger-a noble act, which had already caused her to be driven from home. Increase Mather listened attentively, now and then raising his eyebrows, and at one time frowning when the Captain spoke of Mr. Clark as a believer in the Anglican Church, which he de- clared was little better than Popery. "What you have told me," he said, when his host had got through, " hath taken a load off my heart; for I did greatly wonder at your saying Miss Clark was a god-fearing body, while your aunt gave such a different account of her. I hope your explanation is correct. Certainly the knowl- edge which she displayed of the catechism proves her to be more devoted to religion than anybody supposed, unless, as the ruling elder declared, 'twas the devil whispered the answers. I advise you, however, to pray for light; the Lord may reveal if the young woman is as good as you believe."   74       ROMANCE OF THE "Oh, I am as certain of it as I am of my exist. ence," exclaimed Wadsworth; then covering his face with his hands, "would," he murmured, "that I had her chance of salvation." "But what an awful dream your aunt had," pur- sued Mr. Mather; " really it haunts me." -"Pray, repeat it," exclaimed the Captain, un- covering his face and turning eagerly towards his guest; " do repeat it to me." The clergyman now related word for word the vision which Miss Crabtree had told him, and from the solemn way he spoke it was evident that it had made a deep impression on his mind, while Wads- worth shuddered, for he did -not doubt that his aunt. had had such a-vision. Yet he could not believe that Nancy Clark had done anything to keep Lydia from meeting; no, despite his faith in visions, this Wadsworth could not believe--if the regicide's daughter stayed away it must be of her own free will. Hel knew that his aunt had never liked Nancy, and the good woman's aversion had- doubtless influenced her even during her sleeping hours. "Well," continued the divine, "if you really have such faith in the young woman, then you ought to take her for your wife. Now that she is living away from her father she ought no longer to break the Sabbath, but should tread in the foot-   CHARTER OAK.       75 steps of her venerated mother; and if she does re- form then I repeat you ought to marry her and not let a satanic vow keep you in your present lonely state. The Lord calleth on us to praise Him, yet if we do not raise up families, where will be the voices to sing hallelujahs when you and I have passed away? Miss Goffe far excels Nancy Clark in beauty; but beauty is a fleeting thing ; it is varnish which time rubs off. It was Miss Clark whom you first courted, and to her you must bind yourself." "You give me wise counsel," said Wadsworth, "and if I follow it my soul will be at peace; but I'm a weak mortal; pray for me-Dr. Mather, pray for me!" "Yes, I will remember you on the Sabbath and on week days, for something tells me that you will need more than ordinary grace not to stray from the path. Souls like yours are the most severely tried; but your victory will be all the more glorious. The beauty of the regicide's daughter as far ex- ceeds that of Nancy Clark as a blooming rose in May is more lovely than the humble violet hidden in the grass. But remember, beauty is not every- thing, and Nancy Clark has a claim upon you which no other woman possesses." "How well he knows what troubles me," thought Wadsworth, pressing his hand to his brow;" un- happy mortal that I am!"   76       RO3[MANCE OF THE For a little while neither of them spoke. Mr. Mather, at length, broke the silence, by informing his host that he would have to set out for Boston that very afternoon; then went on to repeat Fwhat he had already told him about defending the charter. But he did not speak of the scheme for a revolution and independence, wisely thinking that it was best not to discourage the Captain. He warned him, however, against dwelling too much on this exciting subject; " and although," conclud- ed the divine, "your ruling elder is a man not al- together to my liking, yet he deserves praise for his zeal in religion. Endeavor, Mr. Wadsworth, to correct evil-doers, not alone by good example but by frequent visits to their domiciles; let not Beelzebub get more headway; witches are be- coming numerous in the land, a sure sign of spirit- ual darkness." The doctor now ran his eyes over the Captain's books, which for those days formed quite a respect- able collection, and remarking that there was no Pilgrim's Progress amongst them, told his host that he would send him one immediately. He likewise promised, as soon as it should appear, a copy of his work entitled Remarkable Providences. With this, doctor Mather left the study and passed a pleasant hour in the company of the regicide, several times asking the old gentleman where his   CHARTER OAK.       " daughter was, and saying how much he would regret if he departed without enj9ying a conversation with one whose appearance had struck him as that of no ordinary woman. Yet it was perhaps well that Lydia and he did not again meet, for it had been the minister's intention to question her about Nan- cy, and likewise impress upon her the danger to her body, as well as her soul, if she did not go to meeting, and there can be little doubt that the re- sult of his lecture would have been a quarrel. So, Increase Mather shook hands with Colonel Goffe with a heavy heart, nor was it till long after he had drawn the moose-skin' covering over his head and started on his way back to Massachussetts, that the girl 'made her appearance, with Charity's basket on her arm, and a smile on her face, which seemed to grow all the brighter when Goody Garlic - told her that the great man had gone. That evening, when Lydia took her place at tilhe supper-table, it was remarked that she did not speak a word about the divine. But what annoyed Miss Crabtree more than anything the girl had done since she had come to Hartford, was the violent fit of laughter she gave way to when the aunt inquired of Wadsworth how he had got such an ugly tear in his coat? Yes, Lydia laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks, nor did Prudence's beseeching countenance have any effect-the widow's account of the story was   78       ROMANCE OF THE dancing through her mind, and all the Goody Garlics in the world could not have made her look grave. CHAPTER XXVII. THE address which Increase Mather had deliver- ed to the freemen when they had called on him at Wadsworth's house, and the reply of Israel Bare- bones, was for several days the sole topic of conver- sation in Hartford. Among the members of the train- band, the peace policy of the ruling elder found at first little or no favor; but the old men, those who had fought against the Pequots, and whose declin- ing years had witnessed the struggle with King Philip; expressed their belief in the wisdom of his counsel-they wanted no more bloodshed. When- ever Adams, however, heard any of these grey- heads talking in this strain he would frown and swear in undertones, while, if they entered the Or- dinary, he would show them very little respect; and once when he felt Mr. Barebones brush past him, and heard the goodman impressing on Mr. Gen- ness the folly of taking up arms against Andros, he clenched his fist and came very near shaking it at the ruling elder. As for Nathaniel Clark, his jubi-   CHARTER OAK.       79 lant countenance told plainly enough what he thought of this growing diversity of sentiment among the people, but he wisely refrained from spying anything; while the one to whom the train- band looked for cheering words, maintained an un- accountable reserve. C"What does Captain Joe think about it?" was asked a dozen times a day, and it required all the reverence which Simon had for his chief not to class him among the renegades. Poor Wadsworth! little did they know the trials of his soul during the few days after the minister's departure. How often did his eyes glance at the sword hanging on the library wall, then on the map! How often did he beat his breast and struggle to overcome the Evil Spirit, who was tempting him with greater violence than ever! It was while he was in one of his darkest moods that there came a tap on" the door. At first he did not answer, nor was it until it had been repeated that he saicd in a hoarse tone--"come in." In another moment, Lydia stood before him. Her host's disturbed look made the girl fear lest she might have been indis- creet in intruding just then, and so she hesitatedc about speaking; while Wadsworth, too, was silent, but his heart throbbed, the blood rushed to his cheeks. 'Oh why," he said to himself, "why have you come at this moment to tempt me?" yet he did not close his eyes, he did not wave her back,   80       ROMANCE OF THE but gazing at her an instant with an expression which terrified her by its very intensity, he threw himself upon his knees, then taking one of her hands, pressed it against his brow. "Mr. Wadsworth," said Lydia, concealing by a strong effort the astonishment she felt at his be- havior, "Mr. Wadsworth, I am, here to comfort you; I know your grief, nor do I wonder at your making a prisoner of yourself in this room. I know that the words which Israel Barebones ad- dressed to the freemen a few days Ago, have caused a number of them to fall away from your conspir. acy; shame on them! O( God, would that I had not been born a woman!"Here she paused and glanced at the Captain's sword; then, withont en- deavoring to free her hand from his, she went on urging him not to cease his efforts to rouse-the people to arms, and as her words, so full of enthu- siasm, fell upon his ear, he gazed at her counten- ance and quivered in every limb; then, suddenly, with a cry of anguish, he flung her hand away and told her to begone. Lydia was startled, and well she might be-his constant brooding on one great idea had certainly turned his brain. {' Oh yes, it has it has," she said half aloud, "I was wrong to speak about revolution." "Why do you stay here?" he continued, impa- tiently motioning her away, ;H:ave I not sinned   CHARTER OAK.        &1 enough? pluck out my eyes that I may not see you, or draw a hot iron across your face, 'twill rob it of that which may prove my damnation! then bowing his head, he murmured, "Nancy, Nancy!" "Aye, well may your voice falter at her name," pursued Lydia, who of course did not dream what- a bitter memory was torturing him. "Oh, spare me, Miss Goffe, spare me!" he groaned, " yet no, do not; I am a miserable wretch! heap on my head coals of fire. Better that I should suffer in this life than hereafter." ' I know well," pursued Lydia, " that my friend was cruelly wronged the other day by Mr. Bare- bones, and that you stood by a silent witness. Dr. Mather, too, was there. Poor Nancy! well may you reproach yourself for not having taken her part. Alas! the shadow of Increase Mather was pressin" upon you like an avalanche. Is he in- spired that he should lead you like a sheep? And our ruling elder--why do you not brush him aside? The cruel fanatic! Wake up, Wadsworth, there hangs your sword! defend Nancy from Israel Bare- bones, who will have her soon in an iron cage un- less she go to meeting. Oh, I would sit in one until my hair turned grey before I would bend to your intolerant laws. 1 lean upon you, sir; you are my father's protector; do not refuse to help another friendless creature?"   82       ROMANCE OF THE Unspeakable was the relief of Wadsworth, as soon as he discovered that Lydia was not alluding to the intimacy which had formerly existed between himself and Nancy Clark. When she had begun to speak he had felt as if he would have sunk on the floor for very shame. But now, when he found that the girl was only referring to the inquisitorial visit which he had paid the widow Bull, he drew a long breath-aye, a very long breath. "I will pro- tect her; yes, I will," he exclaimed. "Our ruling elder, who is obliged to visit the places where he suspects sin abideth, is rather harsh in the perform- ance of his duty, but he never shall harm Nancy Clark, who I know is not a willful sabbath-breaker; no, never." "Well, you ought to be her friend," continued Lydia, little dreaming what a stab she was about to give the figure kneeling at her feet, " if it'sonly for her kindness to Miles Standish. Nancy fon- dles him and--" "Hush," cried Wadsworth, springing up and clenching his fists, " hush, tell me no more! Oh, God! were you sent here to rack my soul, and give me hell on earth? go, go, go!" His wild expression warned the girl that she must not hesitate to obey, and more convinced than ever that her host was demented, she turned and left the room. Miss Crabtree, who had seen hei   CHARTER OAK.        83 enter the library, narrowly scanned her counte- nance as she re-appeared. The dame, be it known, had cherished great hopes from Dr. Mather's visit; she was not ignorant of the advice he had given her nephew, and still believed that if the latter only made a determined effort, he might win the hand of his fair guest, while her anxiety to have him marry the regicide's daughter had at length become so great that she would have been willing to have had him abate somewhat his fasting and prayers; nay, she was even beginning to wish that the- Sabbath sermons had been less full of brim- stone and hell-fire, for then Lydia might have been less shy about owning the covenant. "Is Joe going to ride with you this afternoon?" she inquired, seeing the girl putting on her cloak, and speaking as mildly as possible. ( Lydia shook her head and replied, "' I wish he would, yes, I really do." *' What is the matter now?" thought the dame, who fancied that she perceived in Lydia's words- a certain tenderness for her nephew. "Here is the girl wanting Joe to go out and he won't go; what is the matter now? It must be Nancy Clark." Leaving the old lady in this perplexed mood, the tegicide's daughter hastened to the widow Bull's, where she had resolved to pass as many hours as possible during the next few days, for she felt that   84       ROMANCE OF TiHE Nancy needed some one to comfort her. As she walked along the street she appeared to those who met her, or who gazed at her from the windows, to be more than usually sedate. Her step, it is true, was as elastic as ever, yet she did not wear the careless, somewhat haughty expression, which she generally did; and Mrs. Philbrick, who had dropped in to gossip with Tom Hubbard's mother, declared that Charity Crabtree was mean not to tell more of what was going on between her nephew and this handsome stranger, who had caused such a stir among the young men of Hartford. Mrs. Hubbard rejoined by expressing her belief that the Captain could not do otherwise than marry the girl. She had been with him now almost a month, he had taken her riding on his pillion, a thing he never had done to any other young woman; in fact she declared that Wadsworth would be little better than a fool if he allowed such a handsome lass to escape him. Perhaps,- had Mrs. Hubbard been blessed with daughters of a marriageable age, she might not not have discoursed in this charitable vein of Miss Goffe; certain it is, that Mrs. Phil- brick, who had a couple of bouncing girls of nine- teen and twenty, with faces a little too round, it is true, yet on the whole comely enough and with bodies no less finely developed than the regicide's daughter, felt extremely jealous of the latter. Her   CHARTER OAK.       85 mother's eye blinded her to the fact that they lacked the air of nobility, the ambition, the breadth of mind, which had given Lydia such a hold upon Wadsworth, and that, had they been ever as beauti- ful, they could never have inspired him with a simi- lar passion. "True," said Mrs. Philbrick, "she's passably good-looking. But is she possessed of a spirit of godliness--which, after all, is the main thing? Mark my words, Captain Joe ain't likely-to take a girl for his wife, who stays away from meeting and passes half her time in company with Nancy Clark -a strange being, as everybody knows, one who wanders off by herself when we're singing psalms and listening to the sermon, and in my opinion holds communion with the powers of darkness. This was an objection which the other gossip found it difficult to answer, and so she kept silent. Her friend, however, went on and in a more ani- mated voice--" don't you remember?" she said, "the queer turn things took at the husking party Captain Joe gave? I watched this new comer pretty sharp the whole evening, and I know she was at, the bottom of the sin we committed on that never to be forgotten occasion. 'Twas she who got us to dance, and yet didn't, dance herself--not she! She sat whispering to the stranger who was blowing into that horrid looking bag which squeaked    86       ROMANCE OF THE like so many dying pigs ; and I believe if the truth were known, you'd find that 'twixt him and her there's more intimacy than there'll ever be 'twixt her and Captain Joe." "Well, but she may change, now that Increase Mather has passed a day at Wadsworth's; the doctor has wonderful influence over folks, and one lecture from him would cure the girl of sabbath- breaking. No, I cannot believe that such an un- common fine creature-and to tease her friend she laid great stress on the word uncommon--will re- fuse much longer to own the covenant." "Well, she'd better make haste if she expects us to treat her ,any way civil. I don't believe in hold- ing communion with the ungodly," rejoined Mrs. Philbrick, her jealous eyes all the while following Lydia, who by this time had nearly reached the bridge. "Well, to change the subject," pursued Mrs. Hubbard, drawing her chair a little closer to her friend, i have you heard anything new to. day? The times is awful dull; anything new, Mrs. Phil- brick?" a "Not a word," replied the other. "Provoking, too, for I know there's lots going on; always is when things look smooth. My gals has been spinnin', and I've been churnin', and we aint heard a word',"                   ,   CHARTER OAK.- 87 "Well, I have got hold of something, something that'll cause a heap of talk-just guess what it is, Mrs. Philbrick." ( Shah! don't keep me waitin,'" returned the other, withdrawing her head from the window, " for goodness sake, speak out." "Well, Miss Clark has been driven from home and is now staying at the widow Bull's." ' No! really?-truly?-Is it a fact?" "True as I'm here," continued Mrs. Hubbard. "Tell, that-is--news!" "But, Ma, you ain't heerd all," said Tom Hub- bard, who had just dropped in to visit Dorothy. "I've heerd something that's done me more good than if I'd found a hundred pine-tree shillings in the road. Ha-ha--ha! I wish I'd been there to see it. Ha-ha-ha!" "What is it, my boy? what is it?" cried his mo- ther. "Don't fool us Tom, or I'll. box your ears ; speak out, or go about your business." But the lad who wanted to try their patience did not say a word, and it was not until he had placed himself next to )orothy, and nudged her with his elbow, that he went on. "Old Israel Barebones," he said, " got a drubbing. Yes, Mrs. Bull laid a rope across his back, and made him scamper and 'holler' as if a nest of hornets was after him-ha, ha, hal"   88       ROMANCE OF THE You'd never have thought he had a sore foot to see the tracks he made for the door, ha, ha, ha!" "Not possible?" exclaimed in one voice his mo- ther, Mrs. I Philbrick, and the Misses Philbrick. "Why, she's bragging about it all over town," pursued the lad; "her tongue's a goin' clatter, clatter, clatter, like a mill wheel in: a freshet." "Well, well, well!" ejaculated Mrs. Hubbard, "that is news worth hearing." "Verily, we live in wonderful times," returned Mrs. Philbrick, "in wonderful times. How will it all end?" "Don't know and don't care," pursued Tom, grinning. "If there's only a jolly row, that's all I want; ha, ha, ha i" "But when did this happen?" inquired Dorothy. "The day Increase Mather was here, my love. Old Barebones took him to the widow's to see if there wasn't a devil livin' there, and sure enough the ruling Helder found one-ha, ha, ha!" Leaving them to discuss this exciting piece of news, we will return to Lydia, who is now with- in a step of the bridge, at this moment crowded with people, among whom she espied Adams, and as he was gazing down at the stream she hoped he would not discover her going by. In this, however, she was disappointed. Scarcely had she set foot on the bridge when he turned round, and on his   CHARTER OAK.       89 face was the same bloodthirsty expression which had shocked her so much once before. "Why do you shrink from me?" he said, in a smotherd tone and placing himself beside her. "If you knew how I feel toward you, Miss Goffe, you would treat me differently. When I tapped my finger on this dagger a few evenings ago, and swore vengeance against a certain person, you grew white with terror and havn't got over it yet. Stay -do not walk so fast-listen to me." Half afraid of opposing him, Lydia halted: "TWe used to be friends, Adams," she replied, " speak, I will listen." "Oh yes, Migs, friends, firm friends--and if you have liked me as I have liked you, our friendship will not break for a trifle. Havn't I known you since you were a babe? Didn't I guide Prudence Garlic through the wilderness, she carrying you in her arms, to where your father was concealed? Think of the reward I might have obtained had I revealed the place of his retreat. Many a time have I been asked by the King's friends, who knew that I roved through every part of the country, if Icould tell them ought about Goffe the regicide. But I was never even tempted to betray him, no, never." "May the Lord bless you for your-fidelity," mur- mured Lydia, who saw in him now, only the same   90       ROIS03ANCE OF THE kindly being whose visits to the log cabin had made such happy breaks in the monotony of her forest-life. "Well, Miss, it is because I am your friend that I wish to shield you from every evil; even this will I use if need be to prove it," and as he spoke he again clutched the handle of his dagger. "But tell me, who was that stranger who played the bag- pipes at the husking?" The girl did not answer. "Can you feel any thing but hatred for him?" con- tinued Simon, in a voice low and soft-yet no tiger's eyes had ever glared with more fury than did his at this moment--" since it must have been he who caught that fatal glimpse of your father, for I am sure the old gentleman peeped into the barn to look at the dancing. Oh tell me, Lydia; tell me his name? po not fear that I will reveal it to others ; my tongue is not a woman's tongue; it can keep a secret. i However much you may once have liked him, now you can only view him with loathing. Do tell me his name; only this dagger and myself shall possess tie secret." Lydia trembled--what could she do?  One of Simon's rough hands was clasping her wrist, in her very agitation She could read the truth of- all his dark suspicions;. "Yes, he betrayed me," she sighed, "but I will not betray him. Synnot's blood shall not be on ,   l /    CHARTER OAK.       91 my hands; no, no!"Then fearful of meeting Adams' glance, she turnedl her face away and stood with- out answerincg his question. It was whilst she was in this perplexed state, hardly knowing what to do, that Jacob Japheth caime up. The poor fellow had evidently some trouble of his own, for he did not whistle, or offer his hand in his usual frank, jovial way, but without any ceremony pulled Lydia's sleeve and told her that he wanted to speak with her apart. This proved for the -girl a happy escape fromn Mad Adams, who with a muttered oath allowed her to free her wrist and walls off with the tithing-man. "I suppose, Miss," began Mr. Japheth, looking her full in the face, " that the tavern-keeper has been telling you what happened yesterday at the gwidow Bull's, and I see it has worried you. Well, so it hlas me. Nothing that has occurred in Hart- ford for a twelvemonth past has made me feel so bad." "Oh, yes, the poor widow!" exclaimed Lydia, glad to have the current of her thoughts changed. "And the poor young woman now, living with her," pursued Jacob, "'twas thinking of her, that kept me awake the past night. Oh, what am I to do?" "Well, what is the trouble now, is my friend ill?" inquired Lydia. "No, not ill. But you must know that our   92      POMANCE OF TEE ruling elder has -proposed to have a cage got for sabbath-breakers--he's been talking to the peo- ple about it the whole day, and somehow they appear more willing to listen to him than for merly. And Mt. Barebones has threatened to have me put out of office unless I make a corm- plaint against Nancy. He says my blind eye shan't excuse me any longer; and I have promised him to do my duty more faithfully. But how can I com- plain against her dear, good soul? No, by jingo, I won't T I'll sooner resign. Folks 'll not think so much of me perhaps; they may not give me any more shoes to mend, and as my wife can't do a stitch of work I'll be hard pushed to get enough to feed and clothe my family; but for all that I'll let them turn me out of office, rather than injure your friend." Here he paused a moment and brushed away a tear. "But you'll promise me, Miss," he continued, " to try aind get Nancy Clark to go to meeting. Oh, do! opt that such a religious, gentle body needs to sing psalms, and listen to sermons on hell, an hour long i; but the law against sabbath- breakers is plain, ana unless she obeys she'll have to suffer." "I promise, Mr. Japheth, to do as you request," replied Lydia. "But what if she were to go to meet- ing and I still continue to absent myself-what then?"   CHARER OAK.        93 "( Then, Miss, 'twill be you they'll set in the cage. Oh, dear, dear! may I never live to see that day!" "You never will, sir," exclaimed Lydia in a firm tone, "A revolution is coming, and these absurd laws will be trampled under foot. Yes, Mr. Wads- worth's sublime idea will be realized, and we will enjoy religious as well as political freedom." Mr. Japheth shook his head. "I wish I had- your faith in the success of the Captain's con- spiracy," he added. "But now, Miss, I must leave you; yes, I'1I have to go. See! yonder is Mr. Barebones waving his hand." mWith this Jacob Japheth hastened down to the river bank where the ruling elder was calling him, while Lydia re- mained a few minutes watching the movements of the latter, and found that he was having one of his new-fangled ducking stools placed between the willow tree and the bridge. Although the air was chilly, Israel Barebones had thrown off his coat, and with sleeves tucked up, was evidently much ex- cited over his work, while his hat, which had blown into the water, did not seem to give him a moment's thought, nor did he say thanks to the urchin who -was trying to fish it out. "It's not to punish the flesh, I'm doing this," he exclaimed, in a loud tone, as Mr. Japheth came up, "Oh, no, it's for the good of men's souls and, for the honor and glory of God." These words so vexed Lydia, that she would not   "      ROMANCE OF THE stay to hear more, and with a defiant expression and a toss of her head, resumed her walk to the south end of the town. "Aye, you and I ag'ee about him," whispered a voice, after she had proceeded a few steps. "But there are so many Israel Barebones in the country that I'm afraid ducking stools won't be done away with, unless Captain Joe succeeds in rousing the people to revolution." "May the Lord prosper his scheme," replied Lydia, quickly recovering from the agitation which Adams' unwelcome presence had caused. "Oh, if I were only a man."  "You'd be worth a regiment," pursued the tavern-keeper. "But, Miss Goffe, do you know, what I am going to do, if I get a chance? I'1 cut this newfangled machine adrift, as I did the old one. Ha! what'll Barebones say then?" The girl smiled, and was on the point of telling him that if the cage for sabbath-breakers arrived, it, too, must be thrown into the river, when her attention was drawn to a woman who was running towards them, snapping a rope above her head, and whose whole appearance was that of a creature escaped from Bedlam. I "I thrashed him yesterday,'" screamed the wido-w Bull, for it was she--- the hypocrite! the toad! the scullion! And he won't get over it in a month;   CHARTER OAK.       95 no, by all the sharks he won't! This rope, God bless it, has thrashed many, a lazy lout aboard the Polly Ann. But it 'never was laid across such a varmint as the one it walloped yesterday. Oh, Israel Barebones, don't your coat smell of tar?" Mrs. Bull's voice was fvibrating between a roar and a yell; her face was livid with rage, and her hood, which had fallen back, had let loose a mass of flaming red hair, done up in ringlets and tied with ribbons of various colors. Lydia perceived at, a glance the danger to which the good woman would expose herself, unless she immediately held her tongue; so, catching the rope, she. endeavored to pull it out of her hand, and at the same time implored her to be still. But as well might she have tried to hold fast one of the shrouds of the Polly Ann when it was blown about in a squall. "I can't, Miss, I can't help it," cried the widow, softening her voice a little when she recognized her friend. "No, I really can't help it. There's a hurricane inside of me and it's got to blow out; let me go!" But Lydia, who firmly believed that the dame was bent on giving the ruling elder another casti- gation, grasped her frock and held her back with all her might and main, and as she was strong, though not quite as powerful as the widow, the course of the latter was sufficientlv retarded to   96      ROMANCE OF THE allow a third party to overtake her. This was Nancy Clark, who had been chasing Mrs. Bull all the way from the cabin. "Oh, Lydia, do help me )ringher home," the young woman gasped; " or or, dear knows what'll happen." "But you can't stop hie," screamed the widow, breaking loose from bojh of them, "make way, folks; room, room. I want to show up the biggest varmint in Connecticut." With Lydia, still retaining a slim hold of her gown, and Nancy following as close as possible, Mrs. Bull now pushed her way among the people, who, as soon as they had heard her voice, had turned from the ducking-stool and given her all their attention. "I say, Israel Barebones," cried the rash crea- ture when she had gained the side of the bridge and looking down at the river bank, "I say, how does your back feel to-day? you vile persecutor of women'! Things may be workin' to suit you, but by all the sharks you'll be sot on your beam-ends yet. See if you won't, yoi- long-faced, shabby old devil!"By this time the multitude was pressing so close upon her, that she was nearly forced over the railing; the rope was cutting all kinds of figures in the air, while her left arm, as well as her right, was moving swiftly to and :ro, up and down and il every direction.                     ,  .   CH A RTER OAK.       97 For a moment, but only for a moment, the rul- ing elder turned and gazed at her. "Miserable creature," he sighed, " it must'be done; but 'twill be for your own good. I bear you no ill-will, no, not a mite. The assault which you committed on me I take as a punishment for my own transgres- sions. God's laws must not be broken with impu- nity. Oh, unhappy woman!" The younger members of the crowd appeared to relish the scene immensely, and amongst them was the irrespressible Tom Hubbard, who, after telling his budget of news to Mrs. Philbrick and his mother, had gone out and joined the stream of people who were directing their steps to the river. "Hlrrah! scold him, pitch i"nto him, he deserves it," yelled the lad; then dropping close to the ground, he remained hidden a moment until the effect produced by his words had passed off. "Aye, but if she gets ducked for this?" whispered Dorothy, who had followed her lover unawares, "you'll wish you hadn't encouraged her; and yet what she says is all true; Mr. Barebones is a de- testable uman." The elder portion of the crowd, however, were very grave and shook their heads, while one of them, a tall woman-who held herself so erect and- stiff, that you might have thought she could not   98       R(OMANuC OF THEi have, swerved from the road to Zion, if she had tried-declared that it was time to call the con- stable. "The law says, wivhoever uses too freely his tongue shall be ducked tliree times over head and ears," remarked this pious soul. "Methinks Mrs. Bull meriteth such a punishment." So thought Mr. Barebones as he tappled Jacob Japheth on the shoulder, then spoke a few words to- him., "Aye, let her be ducked,'" cried a number of voices, "let her be ducked&" The widow heard what 'hey said, and suddenly stopping the movement of her arms, turned and faced them with a bold, contemptuous air. "Shame on ye," she cried. "I'm o0nly one against a hun- dred, and it is too late to escape your verdict. I was advised the other day to flee from Hartford; but it ain't in me, a sea captain's ' widder' to scud. I'll face the storm,'no matter how hard it may bat- ter my timbers, and like the Polly Ann, I'll go down with colors flying."   I While she was speaking the wind kept tossing her ringlets about, fluttering ; scandal in the eyes of the spectators and causing miany a groan. In vain did Lydia implore her to De silent; in vain did Nancy tug at her frock. Once set a going, Mrs. Bull was not' to be stopped by any human being, and her husband when alive had often and often wondered how she had beenri able to scold by the   CHARTER OAK.        99 ,our without losing breath. The dame had just olDd the people that she would go clown with colors lying, when a short,bandy-legged individual pushed dis way up to her, and taking her arm, informed ier that she must go to jail. For a moment she ;urned on him her flashing eyes; the hand which held the rope trembled; she was hesitating whether to surrender peaceably, or serve the constable as she had served Mr. Barebones. Lydia shrewdly guessed what she was thinking of, and snatching tie -cord out of her hand, thrust it into her own pockcet, then turned and left the crowd. "We can do no further good by staying here," she whispered to Nancy, "I've got the piece of rope which I'll keep till Mrs. Bull is released. Let's be off and not remain and see her carried to prison. The two friends, accordingly, walked away in the direction of the widow's cabin, anxiously canvass- ing the scene which they had witnessed, and griev- ing over the certain punishment which would be inflicted on the good woman. CHAPTER XXVIII. THE door of the Hartford jail was a hard door to open, and the bandy-legged official grew red in   100      R aMANCE OF THE the face and looked compassionately at his fingers before he could make the key go round. It took at least five minutes to overcome the rust which had accumulated in the lock, but the delay -was a god-send to those who had followed the prisoner from the bridge, for it gave them an excellent op- portunity to study her countenance. During the paroxysm of rage which Mrs. Bull had given way to, her dress had got much disordered. One sleeve was torn, so was her apron, while the rosettes with which she had decorated her shoulders had gone fluttering down into Little river, and were by this time far on their way to the Connecticut. "Mrs. Philbrick, of course, was among those who were now staring at her. So was Mrs. Hub- bard, and their groans and the occassional rolling of their eyes showed how much they were scandal- ized. Mr. Japheth, too, was present, his arms folded on his breast and evidently profoundly af- fected; while Tom Hubbard's countenance indi- cated a violent struggle between the pleasure he took in the exciting scene and ;compassion for the victim. But Wadsworth was not among the gap- ing crowd. His aunt, however, who had been look- ing out of the window and seen the people hasten- ing towards the south end of the town, was stand- ing with Mr. Genness surveying the culprit as if she wanted to devour her. Quick and nervous   CHARTER OAK.       101 were the jerks of Miss Crabtree's top-knot, more cat-like than ever were her eyes. "'Tis a punishment she, hath richly merited," quoth Mr. Philbrick to Simon Adams, as he rested his arm on the publican's shoulder. The latter in- stantly drew back with a scowl on his face, and nothing restrained him from openly expressing his opinion of ducking stools, whipping posts, and cages, but the fear of losing his position as keeper of the Bunch of Grapes. "What aileth thee, sir?" inquired Mr. Philbrick, greatly wondering at his conduct. "Oh, would that I dared speak out," muttered Simon. "May damnation rest on those who ap- prove of such persecution as this." And now the door swings slowly back on its hinges, a damp, grave-yard odor comes out of the prison, and with a shove from the constable Mrs. Bull passes in. In another moment the door closes, Mrs. Philbrick and Mrs. Hubbard congratulate each other on the reformation which has began in Hartford, and the crowd slowly disperses. The room where the widow found herself was not mean as to size, for it covered the whole length and breadth of the building. Two diamond-shaped win- dows, one on each end, and sufficiently high to pre- vent anybody escaping, allowed a dim light to pene- trate-barely enough to reveal the names of former   102      ROMANCE OF TrHE prisoners rudely carved upon the wall, while in a cor- ner was a pile of straw, threshed out dear knows when-certainly it looked as if it might have been brought from Massachusetts by the Rev. Mr. Hooker, or some of his parishioners, in 1636. After surveying her new quarters and deciphering a few of the names, Mrs. Bull put her hand in her pocket to feel for the old tarred rope, which had kept green so many happy memories; then sighed as she remembered that Lydia Goffe had taken it away. Long, very long did that day seem-it was more like a week than a day; but at last the nine o'clock bell rang and she lay down on the heap of straw and tried to fall asleep. It was mid- night, however, before she got dreaming of the Polly Ann. The little vessel was hove to under storm staysail, the wind howling through her shrouds and spars like ten thousand demons; hor- rible sea monsters were swimming around her, and the captain, standing at the wheel, with a death look on his face, was crying out, " wife, wife, fare- well!"Oh, it was a dream to make one's blood run cold, and glad, very, very glad, was the widow when she opened her eyes, and heard the cocks crowing, for she knew that morning had come again. The rain was pattering on the roof, but that did not matter; fair weather or foul, this day would end her imprisonment and she would be once more with Nancy and Lydia, the kind friends who had tried so   CHARTER OAK.       103 hard to prevent her falling into the hands of the constable, and who were now the first to enter her mind, as she awoke out of her troubled sleep. After she had arisen, and whiled away about an hour walking back and fortfli the length of the jail, she heard footsteps and voices, then the door turned on its hinges and the constable, accompanied by Israel Barebones, entered. Hateful as was the sight of both these men, the good woman smiled and even said, " how d'ye do," as they appeared ; for she believed they had come to lead her to punish- ment, after which she might be allowed to return home. In this, however, she was mistaken. The constable carried on his arm a basket well filled with good things prepared by Nancy and her friend-and which the widow would certainly not have needed if she were so soon to have been set free-while the ruling elder held a ponderous bible in one hand and the Bay Psalm-Book in the other. "VlWhy, you bring me enough, methinks, to last a week,'" she exclaimed, raising the lid of the basket. "What does it mean?" "You may have need of all these tarts and slices of bread and bacon, unhappy woman," responded Mr. Barebones, his solemn voice dying away in a ghostly echo among the rafters,: "Although you have merited the punishment$ of ducking for the foul language you used yesterday in presence   104  :    ROMANCE OF THE of the whole town, yet I would not have it in- flicted such weather as this. It raineth pitchforks." "Well, what if it does?" said the widow. "Oh, I beg you deliver me from this vilehole. I'nm sure there are rattlesnakes under the floor-ugh!--since I'm to be plunged into the river what matters it if [ get wet going there? Oh, sir, duck me to-day, do, do!"But the good man shook his head, then Dresented her the books. "Although the light here is dim," he said, "typi- cal of the condition of your soul--yet your vision is good, and these volumes will. help pass the time, besides furnishing wholesome and much needed nourishment to the spiritual part of your being." Here the prisoner burst into a jeering laugh, and turned away, declaring by all the sharks that she would never read the scriptures again as long as she lived, norsing another psalmn. ' Unhappy creature," sighed the ruling elder, "the kEvil One hath thee in his clutches sure enough; but I shall pray for thee-" then address- ing his companion, " and do y u likewise pray; it may not be too late." With this he placed the books on the floor, the basket near them, then gazing a moment at the prisoner with a mournful expression, he made the constable a sign and they departed- the door creaking dolefully as it hid them from view --while Mrs. Bull was left listening to the rain drops,   C}TARTER OAK.      105 cursing the laws of Connecticut, and wondering how she had ever lived in Hartford one hour after the foundering of the Polly Ann. All that April day she paced back and forth iun A frame of mind, which was not very becoming a Christian, and when the dilm light grew dimmer and night once more closed around the jail, she threw herself on the heap of straw and cried herself to sleep. The second nmorning of her incarceration opened warm and c'.oar, and her heart was so filled with joy at th1o sight of the sunbeams which came streaming i; through a crevice in the wall, that she fell on Cr knees and offered up a prayer of thanks- giving. "Surely," she said, "Israel Barebones will have no excuse now for prolonging my imprison- ment." The sun, however, had risen many hours before she was allowed to catch a glimpse of the blue sky -yes, it was noon ere the people began to gather in the vicinity of the jail. But when she heard them coming, oh how glad she felt, and among the voices she could distinguish Tom Hubbard's burly laugh, and Mad Adams giving somebody an angry response. Then in a few minutes more, the key turned in the lock and the constable, followed this time by the selectmen, entered. The latter cast an approving glance on the Bible   106      ROMANCE OF THE and Psalm-book. But otheir edification lasted only an instant, for Mrs. Bull hastened to declare that she had not touched either of the volumes, then urged them to perform their duty at once and not afflict her with a sermon; while Tom Hubbard poked his head in the door and shouted--" bring her out! a day and a half is long enough to be shut up in that hole." Presently, the widow appeared before the assem- bled crowd, and as she descended the steps of the jail she tossed back her head in a defiant manner and clenched her, fists. "That's right, give it to them!" again shouted saucy Tom, his eyes sparkling with excitement. Suddenly, the prisoner turned and gazed haughtily on the ruling elder, who had glided to her side. "Yea, verily have I prayed for thee yesterday and this morning; oh, sinner, repent ere it be too late," were the good man's words, as with hands clasped he accompanied her across the green. "Get away from me!" she exclaimed, " the like of you destroy religion ins;ead of giving it to folks." But Mr. Barebones heeded nought that she said to him--his lips moved in silent prayer- burning zeal was stamped on his countenance, and Miss Crabtree, Mrs. Philbrick, Mrs. Hubbard, and nearly every woman who gazed at him, de- clared he had the look of a prophet.   CHARTER OAK.       107 Thrice as they went along did young' Hubbard glance at the good man's toes and sigh for another chance-to stamp on them; while Jacob Japheth-, with head bowed low, walked close to 'Mad Adams, whose angry expression pleased him, for it showed that the tavern-keeper did not approve of the widow's punishment. Little river, owing to the rain, was found to be very much swollen; and' its dark, angry current, broken here and there by whirlpools and clashing logs which had escaped from the saw-mill above, was roaring under the bridge with an ominous sound; while it had so over-flowed the bank that the ruling elder had employed a man to construct a causeway of stones as far as the ducking-stool, in, order that the prisoner might not wet her feet going there. This foolish piece of work sorely tried the gravity of the spectators, while the widow showed how little she appreciated the goodman's attentions by wading through the water-which was ankle deep-till she reached the chair. There she stopped and as she gazed at the flood rushing past, her undaunted bearing for a moment gave way and turning round, perhaps for sympathy, she met the indignant countenance of Adams who was stand- ing near the tithing-man. Without wasting any time, Mr. Barebones now divested himself of his coat and prepared' to assist the constable in the   108      RO- MANCE OF THE performance of his duty; for this improved piece of mechanism being an invention of his own, the good man was very anxious that on its first trial it should work well. The bandy-legged official suggested that owing to the freshet a cord might be prudently used to secure the culprit in her seat: whereat Mr. Bare- bones nodded, and drawing a rope out of his pocket was about to step on the narrow causeway when he hesitated-but only for an instant, then regard- less of a'titter which he knew came from the lips of Tom Hubbard, walked boldly through the water to where Mrs. Bull was standing, murmuring as he went, "I, too, am a sinner, so let wet feet be a part of my penance." It required but a moment for the chair to be drawn on the bank and the prisoner placed in it, after which he proceeded in the gentlest manner possible to make her fast. "No need of that," cried the dame, snatching the rope away and flourishing it over her head (to Tom Hubbard's inexpressible delight, for the lad was sure she was going to give the ruling elder another thrashing.) "I vow I won't be tied; I'm Captain Bull's widow and the Polly Ann didn't fear the waves; come, do your duty." With this, she flung the cord into the stream. "May the Lord give thee to see the light," sighed   CHAnIER OAK.       109 Mr. Barebones, eying her compassionately. "'Un- happy creature, how I pity thee!" (Hold on tight, goodwife," cried Adams in an earnest voice, " hold hard to the iron braces; do, I beg you." "Aye, aye, when I get to sea man," answered Mrs. Bull, then in a lusty tone-" heave away, lads," she shouted, "heave away!"Whereat not a few of the spectators burst out laughing; the majority, however, seemed moved with indignation at what they considered her perverse spirit of ungodliness and shook their heads. The constable now seized his end of the pole (the other end, as we remember, was inserted in a ring at a- point where the three braces met above the sinner's head) and endeavored to push the chair into the current. But Mrs. Bull was an exceedingly heavy woman, so he beckoned Adams to assist him. At this request- the tavern-keeper ground his teeth--could he refuse when all Hartford was look- ing on? His wrath, however, got the better of his judgment, and approaching the official he whisper- ed, "I'll see you in Limbo first." The constable's under jaw fell, but quickly recovering from his as- tonishment, he beckoned to Mr. Japheth. Poor Jacob! What a sinking of the heart came over him at this moment! How he wished he might have exchanged places with Mrs. Bull!  The   "O      ROMANCE OF THE struggle, however, was! brief; his kindly feelings prevailed, and telling the constable that he was a poor hand at such work since his last attack of rheumatism, which had left him with very stiff joints, he slunk back in the crowd. "Why don't you heave away?" -exclaimed the prisoner, impatiently, and with her hands grasp- ing the iron rods. "I say, why don't you heave away?"T "We will, we will," responded Israel Barebones, going himself to the aid of the constable. Then closing his skinny fingers round the pole, and roll- ing his eyes towards the heavens, "push," he -said, "push." Their united strength just sufficed to shove the chair four feet beyond the bank; then elevating the pole, down went the widow deep, deep in the stream. Then, presently, up she came dripping and shaking her locks. Half a minute was allowed her to catch her breath, when once more the chair disappeared beneath the surface. As it rose for the second time, Mrs. Bull-who till now had kept her mouth pretty well closed--shouted, "Hurrah! I feel like the Polly Ann with her storm-staysail set. Hurrah! heave away! who wouldn't be a sea-cap- tain's widow?" "Unhappy woman!" groaned Israel Barebones, as he allowed the ducking-stool to plunge again   CHARTER OAK.       Ill into the raging torrent, " verily, Satan hath a firm hold on thee. But I'll pray, I'll pray." "Enough, the law's fulfilled; she's been thrice dipped; enough,'* exclaimed Tom-Hubbard, as soon as she re-appeared. "Yea," said the ruling elder, drawing the chair on the bank. "And yet a dozen plunges would scarce get Beelzebub out of her." "If I were she," whispered Miss Crabtree to Prudence, "I'd do nothing the rest of this blessed day but drink hot catnip tea, 'tween as many blan- kets as I could wrap round me." "Aye, the chill must have got deep in her bones," returned Goody Garlic ; "poor creature!" "Poor creature! Bah!" exclaimed Charity. Then raising her arml-" but look," she continued, "Iook! As I live, if there isn't Miss Lydia!" Sure enough, the girl at this moment was seen advancing towards the widow-who had refused the help of the ruling elder's hand, and was now standing on dry ground, brushing back the hair from her face. "That's right; don't let him touch you," cried Lydia, giving Mr. Barebones a withering glance. Then taking the widow's arm she led her away, re- gardless of the gaping multitude, who wondered at * Mass. ec. Vol. IV. P. 513--"Three times over head and ears."   "2      ROMANCE OF THE her daring to show so much compassion for a sin. ner, and not a, few of whom declared that the Cap- tain of the train-band would'make'a great mistake if he chose such a lass for his wife. "Alas!" sighed the ruling elder, as he watched them depart, " alas! what is the world coming to?" As for Miss Crabtree, she did not hesitate to tell Prudence that if Lydia was not yet a fallen angel, she was going down hill very. fast. At which re- mark the faithful nurse shuddered, and sighed--" it all comes from that meeting in the forest. Oh, Lord forgive me! why did I not take better care of her that night '?" But, whatever others might thinlk and say of Goffe's daughter, Jacob Japheth and Adams did not conceal their satisfaction; and while the latter gave a cheer, the cobbler whistled a merry tune and declared that lis rheumatism had suddenly lef; him. Tom Hubbard likewise smiled and squeezed Dorothy's hand, nor could little Faith Genness help rejoicing in her own quiet way. But where was Wadsworth? why had he not shown himself on this occasion, when his presence might have made the tavern-keeper more respect- ful to the vindicators of the law? More than one member of the train-band questioned his aunt about him, and it grieved them to learn that their chief was confined to his bed with a fever. Mr. Bare-   CHARTER OAK.       113 bones, especially, was anxious to know why he had stayed away, and begged Charity to tell him that a reformation had commenced, and that the widow's ducking would bring a blessing on the town. In the meanwhile, Lydia was hurrying Mrs. Bull to her home as fast as the corpulent dame could go. "( Nancy," she said, " is all ready with hot tea and warm blanklets, and there's a fire burning that'll do your heart good to look at." "Thanks, thanks," replied the poor woman, her teeth chattering and leaning heavily on the girl's arm--" oh, what would I do without you?"Then after a pause, " but, Lydia dear-I--I hope there's a little-a little rum mixed with the catnip?" When they reached the cabin they found Nancy waiting for them on the threshold, nor would the young woman let the dame enter until she had given her a hearty embrace ; then, without any ceremony, Mrs. Bull was brought as near the fire as she could get without scorching, after which she was disrobed and buried deep in a feather bed, then covered -with dear knows how many blankets and quilts, until she implored the girls not to pile on anything more. As soon as this part of their duty was ac- complished, Lydia threw a fresh armful of wood on the fire, while her friend began pouring out the tea--at the same time telling the goodwife that she must drink a pitcher-full. ,   "4      ROMANOE OF THE "But don't blow on it, Nancy," cried Lydia. "It must be scalding lot or it won't do a bit of good." Nancy, always obedient, at once put the cup to the dame's lips and poured a few drops down her throat. Instantly, the poor woman raised her head and gave a cry of pain. Oh, you're killing me." she said, rubbing her throat, " you're killing me." '-'But you have to drink it," pursued Lydia, ad. vancing and taking-the cuip in her own hand, "yes, you have to drink it; the i hotter the better." But strong-willed as Lydia was, in the widow she had her match, and the latter vowed she would not touch another drop until it had been cooled, and some rum added to i-. Accordingly, the tea was placed outside the door for a  minute, after which a little of the dame's favorite beverage was poured into it, and then, to to their great delight, she swallowed the mix- ture.         I The whole of that dajt and the next the good woman kept her bed, Nan y  Clark anxiously watch- ing by her pillow, and at one time the latter feared she was going to be very ill. But the dame always assured her that she would weather the, ctorm, and that when once she got oi- her keel again-she was fond of using nautical terms--she would be all the better for the ducking. Lydia, too, was devoted to ,         I   CHARTER OAK.       115 the poor soul, and visited the cabin morning and evening, and during one of her visits she held a long conversation withi Mrs. Bull about the laws of Connecticut, and the widow was enchanted -to find that the regicide's daughter agreed with her on every point. Nancy, however, did not open her lips while they were criticising her native colony,. and from her silence it was evident that she did not view the Puritan statutes in the same light as her friends ; for however harsh these might be, she knew that the men who had framed them had followed as near as possible the code of Moses. Moreover, the young woman had made up her mind to be in future what her mother had been, a strict member of the Church. The morning after the ducking two persons called to inquire how Mrs. Bull was getting on. The first who came was the ruling elder, bringing with him some herbs gathered the summer before, and which he urged Lydia to give the dame in case fever set in. But after she had allowed him to unfold the object of his visit, the girl scornfully motioned him to leave the house, and he went away murmuring a prayer. The other visitor, Jacob Japheth, received, we need scarcely say, a, very different welcome; and the honest fellow stayed more than an hour crack- ing jokes and inspiring the regicide's daughter with a greater regard for him than ever. "  I'm no longer   1   !6   ROMANCE OF THE tithing-man," he said, " but the Almighty will care for me and my family, even as he sent ravens to feed Elijah. Folks are pdinting their fingers at me, and few are the shoes I now get to mend; but God will provide enough-I trust in Him," and he ended by whistling a merry tune. Before he said good-by, however, he became grave, and turning to Nancy urged her to change her ways. "Do, Miss Clark," he said, "go to meeting. I have been dis- missed from office because I refused to complain of you; but the man who has taken my place is as un- bending as iron, has two eyes instead of one, and will bring you to grief unless you change. Oh, yes, do go to meeting, and take your friend with you." "No, no," exclaimed Lydia, "Nancy and I will say our prayers at home-no brimstone sermons for us. If they dare put us in a cage we'll teach them a lesson which they'll not soon forget." Alas! Miss, what could you do?" pursued Mr. Japleth. "The whole settlement would be array- ed against you, and " "Enough,!" interrupted Nancy, speaking in a tone which surprised him as much as it did Lydia and the widow. "Enough! I   will take my friend to the house of worship; so dismiss all fear, sir, on our account. Next Sabbath you will find me in the old seat which my dear mother occupied, and Lydia next to me."   SI      CHARPTER OAK.          117 At these words the regicide's daughter gave her friend such a look that the latter almost burst into tears. But the cloud quickly passed from Lydia's face, then seizing Nancy's hand, "we are very un- like," she said, "in our natures; very, very; yet our friendship shall not be broken; no, never.' If you wish to go to meeting, go! My prayers shall be said at home. We journey by different roads, yet, I hope in the end we will both reach Zion." , CHAPTER XXTX. A WEEK has gone by since the ducking of the widow. The snow has entirely disappeared, ex- cept, perhaps, on the north side of some rock where it seems determined to remain as long as it can; the song sparrows and robins have returned; the swallows are chasing one another in and out of the barns, and skimming over the meadows, where they greet the bees who have ventured out of their old- fashioned straw hives in search of dandelions and' daisies; while towards evening the frogs croak in chorus along the river bank and tell you that spring has really come. Every'plow is at work, and Tom Hubbard, after he has taken his supper, amuses himself making a scarecrow, which he intends to   "8      ROMANCE OF THE set up in his father's field, and which he declares will frighten off the cunningest raven that ever stole corn. Mrs. Bull has suffered no ill effects from her punishment, and with a couple of bran new rosettes on her shoulders, is at this moment standing on the threshold of the cabin enjoying with Nancy the delicious air, and wishing there was no such season as winter. "Why doesn't Lydia come?" said 'the young woman gazing up the road. "I've a mind to go see what keeps her." "Humph! perhaps the Captain's fever is worse." responded the dame. At these words the counte- nance of Nancy fell. "I only wonder, Miss, he didn't take sick long ago, seeing how he has bothered his brains with that wild idea of driving Andros out of New England." "What he aims at will one day come to pass," rejoined the other. "God is with him; Wads- worth cannot fail." Here Mr. Japheth came up, and shaking the widow's hand, told her how glad he was to see her looking so well. "And what a beautiful evening!" he continued. "I wish my Kitty could enjoy it."  "s How is she," inquired Mrs. 'Bull, stepping baclk to let the -cobbler have a seat on the threshold. "As usual; no change, and there won't be- any until the death-rattle. I don't know what she'd   CHARTER OAK.       119 do if it wasn't for her Bible. That's a wonderful comfort. What a misery 'twould be if she couldn't read! then she'd have nothing to do all day but stare at the wall." Presently, he clasped his hands and with a bitter laugh--"it's going," he said, "to be hard scratching for me this year." "And why more than last, unless you get bed- ridden, too? Then indeed your cup would be full to the brim," remarked the dame. W" tell, there's not much fear of that," replied SIr. Japheth. "But work will be slack-aye, very slack; for since I've been deprived of the office of tithing-man, folks look upon me as a black sheep, and I'm not getting a single-shoe or boot to mend. But let's talk about something else-here comes Aiss Lydia. I call her the blessed Lydia; and you Miss,"--turning to Mr. Clark's daughter--"I call you the blessed Nancy; you are both so kind to my wife and children." Lydia, though her step was firm and her bearing erect, wore on her countenance this evening a look of'uneasiness which startled the frie(nds who were advancing to greet her. "How is he?" whispered Nancy. "Worse! I watched at his bedside all last night and this is the first time I've been out to-day." Mrs. Bull repeated Nancy's question, while the   120      ROMANCE' OF THE cobbler listened attentively to everyfthing that was said about Wadsworth, and when the girl had told them all they wanted to know, Mr. Japheth shook his head. "Poor Captain Joe," said he," I don't wonder he's ill; aftersetting his heart on a republic, to have Mr. Barebones talk the people out of it is enough to drive a body like him crazy. True,-I always thought it a wild scheme; but it must have taken no common brain to conceive it, and if the people hadn't had their heads so full of ducking stools and .cages, and were not so afraid- of taxes, why I do believe there might have been a chance of our becoming free under such a leader as Wads- worth. But as it is, I think the ruling elder's peace policy will prevail." "Shame on him," exclaimed Lydia, the blood rushing to her cheeks. "He's an arrant coward. I'm a woman, but I'm worth a hundred Israel Barebones."' "Wadsworth will see his dream come true," said Nancy, " the Lord is with him." This remark was followed by a deep silence, and Lydia who had en- tered the cabin, turned and gazed out of the further window which commanded a view of the school land. She was yet looking in that direction, when Nancy approached and put her arm round her waist. But the regicide's daughter still kept her eyes fixed on   'CHARTER OAK.       121 the same cpot and appeared not to notice her friend. She saw Mr. Clarlk leaning against a plow and with him two men, one of whom she recognized as the same who had been dismissed fromn the train-band, and the sight made her blood boil. "There," -she murmured, " is the father of my friend taking pos- session of what does not belong to him," and any- thing but gentle words were on her lips when, presently, Nancy pressed her cheek to hers. The struggle, however was brief; no, she could not quarrel with the poor outcast. "We will stay friends," she said, "in spite of that," pointing towards the group in the field. "Oh, I see,'" replied Nancy, "may the Lord for- give me for the part I myself took in bringing it about. Father, father!" "Well, at least you need have little fear on his account," pursued Lydia. "Since the pusillanimous address of your ruling elder, all spirit seems to have vanished from the train-band, and your parent can now go about praising Andros and his royal master with impunity. Indeed, I have lialf a mind to re- turn to the wilderness; yes, I do believe I would if it were not for my father-I hate to dwell among cowards." Presently, Nancy drew her friend away from the window and Mr. Japheth, who was tired of listening to the tirade against the laws of the colony, which 9      r        cl   122      ROMANCE OF THE Mrs. Bull had been pouring into his ear, sat down beside them on the bench and asked how much hope there was of the Captain's recovery. "A great deal," answered Lydia. "Low as he is, death would have hard work to master him'-he has so much vitality. He'd fight it inch by inch and not do as I think Israel Barebones would- cross - his arms, say 'God's will be done,' and ex- change worlds as humbly as if he were going to meeting." "Is he delirious?" whispered Nancy. "Do you think he'd know me if I went there?" "Yes; although his mind wanders, you are con- stantly in his thoughts. Once last night he rose up in bed and called your name, and in such a loud wailing voice that his aunt must have heard him. He spoke, too, of a horrible dream which she had had about you and ne; oh, it was awful to listen to." At these words, Nancy fell on her knees and clasping her hands, began fervently to pray. The widow motioned thMr. Japheth not to interrupt her, while Lydia scarcely breathed, as her friend sup- plicated Heaven in behalf of Wadsworth.  At length, with a cry of joy; "God has heard me!" she exclaimed, "God has heard me! No, no, he will not die!" then rising to her feet she threw her- self on Lydia's breast and burst into tears. Mr. Japheth turned to the widow as if to ask   CHARTER OAK.       123 what she thought of this strange scene, while the dame with uplifted hands and a look of awe on her countenance, murmured, " she's had a sign from the Almighty-Captain Joe is sure to live!" CHAPTER   XXX. NEVER did sister watch by a sick brother more devotedly than Lydia nursed Wadsworth during the next ten days. She wore herself out at his bedside, for she knew that she owed him the deepest gratitude for his hospitality to her aged parent, and moreover, the welfare of New England, perhaps of all the colonies, depended, she firmly believed, on the Captain's recovery. She did not yet realize the change which had come over the people, since the speech which Israel Barebones had delivered in reply to Increase Mathller, wherein the ruling elder had denounced the conspiracy against the govern-, ment and had counseled them to rest all their faith in the Almighty. Miss Crabtree would often knock at the door and ask how the patient was getting on, as well as offer to relieve Lydia from her tiresome duty. But the girl preferred not to have Charity in the room.   124      ROMANCE OF THE The dame's -hatred of Nancy Clark was already bitter enough, and to have heard Wadsworth so often mentioning her name in his delirium, and the strange revelations which he sometimes made of their early intimacy, would but have intensified the aunt's aversion for the young woman. Mad Adams, however, she- allowed to enter the sick chamber as often as he pleased, and sometimes she would let him -take her place for a while in order that she might enjoy a little fresh air. "What a puzzle she is," he would say, " what a puzzle she is. If she doesn't love the Captain, why is she so devoted to him?"Then a fierce look would spread over the publican's face as he thought of the stranger who had been so friendly withl her at the husking party; but it would quickly pass away when he recalled her inspiring words to the train-band on the green. "No, no," he would murmur, " my suspicions must be groundless. Why should she be - other than what- she appears? was ever a countenance more frank? No, the girl cannot be a hypocrite." Every day, Lydia would take a hurried walk as far as the widow's cabin and report to Nancy the sick man's condition. But it was no easy matter to reach the other end of the town, for on all sides she would be hailed by anxious people, every one of whom had a dozen questions to ask about the Captain. Moreover, Adams had told   CHARTER OAK.       125 them how devotedly she was nursing Wadsworth, and many a knowing wink would accompany the question-"How is Captain Joe to-day?" To which she would sometimes respond by say- ing that it was their base falling away from his scheme of independence which had caused the brain fever; and that they deserved to have the school land taken from them and given to Nathaniel Clark, since there was not enough courage left to fight for their rights. Once Nancy's father overheard her speaking thus to one of the train-band, and he could not but admire her spirit and think what a dangerous person she might have proved if the rest of the townfolks had agreed with her. "Yes," said he, "her personal appearance, her stinging words, her boldness, are well calculated to make her a woman of influence, and such as Wadsworth might indeed covet for a wife. Oh, why have I not a daughter like her? If the Captain recover, I won- der will she marry him?"This question Mr. Clark was asking himself one afternoon as he stood in front of the tavern. and while the girl was ap- proaching on her way to the widow's house.' He observed her careworn face and knowing the cause, determined to inquire how the patient, whom she had been so tenderly nursing, was getting on; and should she tell him that the chances of his living were few, what good news it would be!"Yes,   126      ROMANCE OF THE I will speak to her," he said, as she came up, " and get as much information as I can. Ha! how her eye flashes as she sees me looking at her." But Mr. Clark was not to be deterred by Lydia's repel- ling glance. His impudence equalled his cunning; and assuming as mild an expression as he was capable of, he thus addressed her: "Pray, Miss Garlic, how is Mr. Wadsworth to-day? Although I frankly confess he and I are not of one mind on certain weighty questions, nevertheless, as a fellow townsman I take no little interest in him. 'Twere a pity to lose him-has his fever broken?"  It would be impossible to describe Lydia's con- temptuous look' as this wily partisan of King James thus dared make believe he wished anything but ill to the chief of the train-band. She could have struck him, so deep was her indignation; and, moreover, he had called her Miss Garlic, when there was little doubt that he knew her-real name. "Do you take me, sir, for a fool," she exclaimed, "that I should lose a moment talking to the basest citizen of this commonwealth? Wlhat care you about Wadsworth? His-death would fill you with joy, and you'd not lose an hour sending the glad tidings to Andros. Learn, however, that he is recovering and will live to thwart your wicked machinations and punish you for so cruelly treat- ing the gentlest and worthiest woman in Hartford. r   ,   CHARTER OAK.       127, Oh, Mr. Clark, your soul ought to wither at the thought of your daughter cast adrift from home. I almost wish she might die and haunt you. No ghost would ever have done a better work." "Well, how is she? living with Mrs. Bull?"- remorse for a momhent getting the better of his selfish, unfatherly heart, and speaking in a milder tone than Nancy herself had ever heard him use. "Yes, and loving you more than you deserve. But enough, sir; let me go my way. I have alreadylost too much time." With this, she left him. It was Thursday, lecture day, and the green in front of the old meeting-house was crowded witL people, among whom she could readily distinguish the commanding figure cl Mr. Barebones, as usual the center of a group vf men and women, whose grave countenances indicated the interest they were taking in his words, and although anxious to reach "Irs. Bull's house-for Wadsworth had, passed an excellent night and she wanted as soon as possible to give Nancy the cheering news--Lydia could not help tarrying a few minutes to hear what the ruling elder was saying-she suspected it was something about whipping-posts and ducking-stools. "Why have ye allowed these instruments of punishment to fall into disuse?" he was exclaiming. "Can ye expect the Lord not to visit ye with   128       BOMANCE OF THF severe trials if. ye do not immediately hearken to the voice of His Church? Cease, therefore, to plot against the King. God. in His proper time will cast him from his throne. What would indepen- dence benefit y7e, if your spiritual condition were neglected and Beelzebub installed sovereign over ye? Already I tremble when I hear of the increase of- witches in the land. It is a woeful sign-- beware! Mend your ways in time, brethren ; let religion, not politics, have the first place in your hearts." The tavern-keeper, who was one of the group, scowled and uttered an oath at these remarks; but Mr. Philbrick and nearly all the others noddecl approval, while Tom Hubbard, jr., uttered a cat-call and dropped on his knees so that his father might not discover him. Lydia's countenance, however, like that of Mad Adams, flushed with anger--to stay and not give Mr. :Barebones her opinion of him was an imposibility. Let him serve her as lie had served Mrs. Bull, it mattered naught to the daughter of the regicide. "Men of Hartford," she exclaimed, pushing her way among the people," do you value your rights so little that Israel Barebones can make you bow your necks to Andros? Is self-government worth notfl- ing in your eyes? Think you that when the tyrant has crushed Connecticut as he has Massachusetts,   CHA1UTER OAK.       129 he will stop there? Will lie not close your meet- ing-houses, and bring over bishops like Laud, who 'will root out every vestige of the Pilgrim fathers? I detest many of the laws which your ministers have induced the General Court to pass ; but when episcopacy shall have been set up in your midst, it will entail even greater evils than ducking-stools and cages for sabbath-breakers. Men of Hartford, independence is worth fighting for; be not afraid of heavier taxes and bloodshed; Joseph Wadsworth will lead you to victory." We need scarcely say that every eye was turned on the bold intruder; Mr. Barebones' under jaw fell, Adams' face was wreathed in smiles, Tom Hubbard Clapped his hands and gave a faint cheer, while those who were members of the train-band felt their ears tingle with shame. It were difficult to say what answer the ruling elder might have made to this appeal, had not an incident occurred just as Lydia had finished speak- ing, which quite changed her own thoughts as well as diverted the attention of the crowd. Riding towards them at a leisurely gait, clad in the scarlet uniform of the British army, and with lace and epaulettes betokening an officer of the staff, was the same person whom they had seen more than once before carrying dispatches from Andros to Governor Treat. Captain Synnot had   130      noMANcE or THE already espied Lydia, and it was perhaps because her eyes were fixed on him that he had drawn in the reins so as not to pass too quickly by. He made no sign, however, that he recognized the girl whose face had become all at once deadly pale, and who had to summon all her resolutions to keep from falling to the ground. Mad Adams, with the expression of a tiger, had viewed Henry Synnot a moment, then turned and was now piercing Lydia through with his flashing eyes. Did the tavern-keeper read her thoughlts? Did he know the agony she was suffering, believing as she did that the officer had come with a troop of horse to take away her father? Adams' hand clutched the hilt of his dagger. "It is a mystery,"' he said to himself-" a dark, damnable mystery! but 'twill soon be unravelled-with his heart's blood I'll find it out." Captain Synnot had gone perhaps fifty paces from the green, and was about touching his horse with the spur when he heard a voice calling him, and looking round saw Lydia approaching. This action on her part filled him withl astonishment. What might not the people suspect? Was there any danger brewing which she wished to warn him against? She seemed agitated, and the hand raised towards him trembled. "Do you come alone, sir, or wyith a band of hire-   CHEIARTER OARK.     131 lings?" she hurriedly asked, and paying no heed to the words of greeting which he addressed her. "Alone, Miss Goffe," he replied, bending down and speaking in a whisper. -"Why need I attend- ants? Have the townfolks risen against the King's authority? Pray, what does your look and question betoken?"' Anxiety for my father, whom it seems you have discovered. Alas! the fatal secret which escaped me the night we first met, and which I rashy be- lieved was safe in your keeping, has been followed up with all the adroitness of a practiced spy; and you have revealed it to Nathaniel Clark, and of course Andros knows it, and oh, base betrayer!" Here her voice failed her, she did not weep, her feelings were too deep for tears; while Captain Synnot, who as soon as she had began speaking had dismounted, was too overcome by the accusa- tion brought against him to answer at once with the energy he otherwise might. He endeavored to grasp her hand, but she indignantly repelled him. "Begone! do not touch me," she said. "By Heaven! you have not spoken what was true!" he exclaimed, at length, seeing that she was about to leave liim. "Listen but a moment-give me a chance to prove my innocence. Your father's hiding-place was discovered, not by me, but by Mr. Clark, and I confess that he urged me not to lose a   132      ROMANCE OF THE day bringing the news to Sir Edmund; but never will I betray you-no, not for a kingdom; I would sooner die." "Well, how, sir, could Mr. Clark have found out my parent's hiding-place," said Lydia, fixing her eye steadfastly upon him, "unless through you? He did not come to the husking." "But he hovered round the house, Miss, and looked in through a window and saw the old gen- tlemen as he was peeping out of an inner room. I did not tell you of this, knowing the anxiety it would cause, and I need scarcely add that the in- formation I am now giving you must be kept from reaching Mr. Clark, or 'twill fare ill with me." "God 'be thanked!" cried Lydia, in her joy unable to restrain her tears, and now letting the officer take her hand. " .God be thanked! my dear father is safe; oh, yes, Henry Synnot, I will trust you; I will indeed, and you may trust me." "And let me continue your faithful lover," he said, pressing the hand which but for the curious eyes staring at them he would have brought to his lips. Suddenly, brushing away a tear and looking to- wards the green--"I must caution you, sir," she whispered, " against a great peril; your life may be attempted while you are in Hartford. This I would have told you, even had I not ceased to be-   CHARTER OAK.       133 lieve you had betrayed me, for I could not forget that you once saved me from death." "Iam armed, Miss Goffe," he replied, with a slight curl of his lip, " and will deliver the des- patches I carry in my saddle bags to your Governor at every hazard. But tell me at what hour and place can I meet you before leaving the settle- ment?"   - "Nowhere," a blush rising to her cheek as she spoke. "The less we are seen in each other's com- pany the better. Beware of an assassin. My own eyes shall be on the watch for you. Good-by!" With this she withdrew her hand, and giving him a glance full of meaning, continued her way to Mrs. Bull's cabin. Nor did the expression of wonder which sounded in her ear as she passed along the edge of the green, cause her to stop a single mo- ment, nor did she make any reply to one or two ill-natured remarks. She walked on as though she heard nothing, and in a little while reached her 'friend's house. CHAPTER    XXXT. HAvINN delivered his dispatches to Governor Treat, Captain Synnot hastened to Nathaniel   134      ROMANCE OF THE Clark's. The warning which Lydia had given him he could not disregard, and the more he reflected upon it, the more he wondered that the people should so often have allowed him to pass to and fro unmolested; for the accounts which Sir Edmund had received since his arrival in Boston, all indi- cated a great though subdued excitement through- out the colonies, which at any moment might break out into open rebellion. Nancy's father evidently expected him, for the two arm-chairs were drawn close to the hearth, the fire was burning brightly, and several arm-loads of hickory were piled near by. "It is not the first time I have seen you to-day," remarked his host, with a knowing-smile, as he took the Captain's hat and sword. "Ha! I saw Miss Goffe stop you. What a bold thing she is!" Did any lurking suspicion cross the speaker's mind as he thus addressed his guest? If so, no- thing on his countenance revealed it. And as if this meeting between the Captain and the regicide's daughter had left but a slight impression, he im- mediately went into an adjoining room to give a1n order, and on his return introduced quite another topic. "Now, tell me, sir," he began, laying his hand on the officer's arm," what did Andros think of my great   CHARTER OAK.       135 discovery?"This was a most hatural question for Clark to put; one, too, which his guest had fully prepared himself to meet; and knowing that his answer would not be satisfactory, he looked the other full in the face as if to repel the scowl which might come over it. "I have not yet informed Sir Edmund," replied Henry Synnot.  "His Excellency has business enough to worry to death stronger men than he, and this piece of news will bear keeping until a future day. The regicide is safe enough under your watchful eye; surely, he will not leave Hart- ford unless he suspects danger." Mr. Clark, as we may imagine, was thunder- struck by this announcement, He could not con- trol his feelings and with an angry shake of the head-" wrong!" he exclaimed, "wrong!-unwise! -perhaps too late-alas! why, Captain, I did not believe you could be so lukewarm in the mat- ter. ' The blood for an instant rose to the officer's brow, and his flashing eye showed the temper which these words had provoked. But having, as we have al- ready said, expected his host to manifest some displeasure, he allowed the remark to pass un- heeded. "Oh! yes, sir, you have been very remiss-par- don me for saying it," continued Mr. Clark. "Goffe   136      ROMANCE OF THE already knows that his retreat is discovered and he may any hour return to the spot which so long effectually concealed him. No, it would not as- tonish me if he were to escape this very day." "Well, 'twould be your fault if that were to happen," rejoined the other. "Have you not been careless in speaking with the town-folks? You "think you have friends among the train-band; are you sure they have not been playing false?" "I have not breathed a word of it to any of them; I was too shrewd.- But-" here he covered his face with his hands and for more than a minute did not open his lips; the hard-hearted parent was strug- gling with himself. Yet, when he looked up you could perceive no softer expression on his face; nothing to indicate that Nancy was forgiven. No! his thin lips, firmly pressed together, told only of pitiless resentment. "Well, then, who did let out the secret of your discovery?" "Who? Ah, one I confided in as I did in my own self. It was she betrayed me-she whom you must have already missed since you crossed my threshold to-day. Aye, my own daughter divulged the secret." Here, Mr. Clark could not restrain his feelings, and a tear moistened his eyeo But it was indignation, bitter disappointment, the crush. ing of so many bright hopes, not remorse for his   CHARTER OAK.       137 treatment of Nancy, which caused this momentery exhibition of grief. "I have punished her well, however," he con- tinued. "I have sent her off. I don't care what becomes of her." With this, he rose and began pacing up and down the apartment, while Cap- tain Synnot remained in his arm-chair, thinking what a brave young woman Miss Clark was, and how little her meek face revealed her true character. Of course, he could not openly take her part, but he said nothing in condemnation of what she had done and allowed her father to call her many harsh names, until, tired out and irritated by his calmness, Mr. Clark resumed his seat and began questioning him about Sir Edmund's plans in regard to the charter. "His Excellency," replied Synnot, "has made a further demand for its surrender, and it is this brings me again to Hartford. Perhaps, you think the Governor is lukewarm in the matter-' as he spoke he turned towards his host with a smile- "and that he ought to make haste and seize the instrument. But the truth is, he has so much to occupy his thoughts in Massachusetts, that he can- not spare time to come to these parts. Moreover, you yourself counseled against using any force at present. But tell me, has not Dr. Mather been here lately?"   138      ROMANCE OF THE "Yes, and such a ringing of bells you never heard as when he passed down the street with Mr. Wads. worth--in whose house he lodged during his stay- holding the bridle of his nag. The day after lie arrived there was a meeting held there, at which he urged the people to resist by force of arms any encroachments on their liberties; which advice accorded well with Wadsworth's great idea of revo- lution, But when he had done speaking, Israel Barebones, the ruling elder, answered him with wonderful boldness, conjuring his hearers to ab- stain from bloodshed and to leave everything to the Almighty. It was, indeed, a very important meeting, and has wrought a great change in the feelings of the people, who from being loud in their boasts of opposing His Excellency, now speak only of the heavy taxation which war would surely bring upon them. But to make matterssthl more in our favor, Joseph Wadsworth, the head and front of the opposition, is very low just now  ith brain fever. In fact, I believe nothing has saved him from the grave but the nurse who, for ten days and nights, has watched at his bedside. Oh! what a girl she is!"At these words he glanced slily at the officer. ".Who may she be?" inquired the latter. "Why, the one whom I  once told you he longs to marry-the same   who has proved to be the   CHARTER OAK.      139 regicide's daughter-the lass who made so free as to stop you to-day while you were passing the green. Did you not notice that her cheeks had lost much of their bloom? It was the sick room took their color away." For a moment Mr. Clark was tempted to ask his guest what Lydia had said to him, but he feared the latter's hasty temper, and moreover, it was not his policy to break with one who held a position on the staff of the Governor of New England. He, therefore, changed the subject and began speaking of the school land which now belonged to him ; and rubbing his hands, informed Captain Synnot that the town folks had not made much ado about it--a sure sign that their spirit was broken. "And it shows how tame a brave people may become," said the other, " when their leader is not with them. Wadsworth's recovery may, perhaps, kindle anew the flame which once burned so fiercely in their breasts." "I doubt it," said Mr. Clark. "Besides, 'twill be months before he recovers strength enough to go about and harangue them; and by that time Sir Edmund will have the charter safe in his pocket." Here he stopped and gazed earnestly at the burning embers. "But I would rattler, "hea continued, " they might keep their charter and all their rights; aye, I'd rather be dispossessed of the   "O      ROMANCE OF THE school land than have Goffe escape. No, no, that must not be. Captain, I beg you return as soon as possible to Boston, and implore His excellency to send without delay a body of troops to arrest the hoary-headed regicide. Do, sir, do." "I mean to return this very night," said the officer, whose mind, at this moment, was oc- cupied with the warning Lydia had given him. "Strange," he thought, as he leaned back in the chair, "strange! here is Mr. Clark assuring me that the excitement among the people has subsided, and yet the girl told me to beware of my life Might it be some private vengeance? Did this Joseph Wadsworth recognize me through my dis- guise at the husking, where I showed her so much attention? And to-day every body on the green must have observed the manner in which she ad- dressed me ; and how I took her hand. Butnever mind; I have a brace of pistols and a sword, and I'll make a good fight against a dozen of these rustics." During the next half hour and until the servant announced that the evening meal was pre- pared, Captain Synnot hardly opened his lips. He felt for his host a greater contempt than ever, at the same time he could not help despising his own self for the part he was playing. All the prompt- ingsof his nature bade him side with liberty, yet every day he was proving himself more and more   CHARTER OAK.       141 the trusted officer of the tyrant Andros. His was indeed an unpleasant position, and yet to throw up his commission would draw upon him the suspicion of his excellency unless he were immediately to re- turn to England. And were he to adopt this last course he would place the ocean between himself and Lydia Goffe. But one thought offered him any comfort, and that was rebellion at home. "Aye,"' he said to himself, " if the King were de- throned and succeeded by a wise monarch, then these colonies would I believe remain tranquil, and I might continue in the army without doing violence to my feelings. But-alas, I see no immediate pro- ospect of a change. Oh, Wadsworth! Wadsworth! your vision of independence deserves to come true. CHAPTER   XXXTT. AFTER her brief interview with Henry Synnot, Lydia continued her way to the widow Bull's, where she spent the rest of the afternoon helping the good woman mend some house linen and filling Nancy's heart with joy by giving hopeful answers to all the questions the latter put regarding Wads-   "2      ROMANCE OF THE worth. But her friends noticed that whenever she was not directly spoken to, she would relapse into a brooding state, quite unusual to one whose spirits had- always seemed as gay as a lark's; and al- though Miles Standish, whom she had found at the cabin, did his best to cheer her up by rubbing his head against her gown and putting first one paw, then the other on her lap; it was all in vain, she paid no attention to him. Nancy, who had seen the British officer arrive, guessed that Lydia must be dreading some danger to her parent; and when, just as the sun was going down, the girl rose to depart, she accompanied her a short distance be- yond the threshold. "Tell me," she asked, "has Captain Synnot brought any soldiers with him to arrest your father? If Wadsworth is not yet able to leave his room, you and I might rouse the train- band! Where is Mad Adams?  Yet surely I must be mistaken; there can be no immediate danger or you would not have remained with us so long this afternoon." "You are right, Nancy," said Lydia, "were father in peril I'd before this have rallied aroun 1 me the few brave spirits left in Hartford. Although Israel Barebones has made many cowards, still I know there are some who would hasten to defeld Colonel Goffe." "And Simon Adams would be a match for half a   CHARTER OAK.       143 dozen of Andros' men; he's a tiger when he's roused," said Nancy. At these words the other shuddered-she re- called the savage look of- the tavern-keeper, and the way he had clutched his dagger, when he had arrested her steps on the bridge a fortnight be- fore. Then pressing her friend's hand, "'I must hurry away, dear Nancy," she said, "I must hurry away. Although my father is not in danger, I can- not remain a moment longer-good night!" Her friend would fain have detained her, and in- quired the cause of her anxious expression;-she knew something must have happened.   What could it be?"Has her strange manner anything to do with Captain Synnot,"  thought Nancy, "I believe she loves him, yet I know she hates the master he so faithfully serves." Presently, the young woman re-entered the house -herself less cheerful than a few minutes before- and Miles Standish, planting himself at her feet, gave her one of those solemn looks which Wads- worth had so often observed. a What does the oreature mean," thought Nancy, "staring at me in that way? one might believe he -was trying to tell me somethng. Oh, Wadsworth, Wadsworth! it seems an age since I gave you Miles. What a link he is between us! when you see your shadow think of me, when you think of me-remember your vow."   "4      ROMANCE OF THE Leaving Nancy and the widow we will now follow Lydia and again enter with her the abode, where the regicide has found such a hospitable re- treat. The sun had disappeared below the horizon, and when she opened the door she found Miss Crabtree in the act of lighting the lamp, while to her wonder and delight there sat the Pequot, in front of the blazing fire, telling her father and dame Garlic all that he had done since they had left him alone in the log-house; and she smiled an instant as she heard him say that the cow and sheep and old Jack had safely arrived and were at that moment in Wadsworth's barnyard. Presently, she glanced towards the library where she thought she could distinguish the sound of voices, and among them  that of her host. She had hoped on her return to find him seated with Colonel Gffe in pleasant conversation and not worrying himself about any exciting subject--who could he be talk- ing to unless Mad Adams? It was not likely he would invite any body else into his sanctum. "What a pity," thought Lydia, " to have a man just recov- ering from brain fever and scarcely fit to leave his bed, roused as Captain Joe now is." "No-I do not approve it-open war," exclaimed a voice which she knew to be his, "open war; but not--" here the tone fell as if the speaker did not wish to have the rest of the sentence over-   CHAPRTER OAK.      145 heard. The girl fancied, however, that she could distinguish the word-Murder; at the same time Colonel Goffe shook his head and declared it was a pity the chief of the train-band could not be kept quiet a few days longer-while Miss Crab- tree, who since Lydia's unceasing care of her ne- phew during his illness had become thoroughly convinced that she loved him, whispered to her not to let Mad Adams trouble Wadsworth witlh politics. "I'm sure that's what's brought him here," she added. "He came a half hour ago looking glum, and scarce nodded to any of us-but making a sign to Joe who was warming himself by the fire--took his arm and led him into the D library where they've been ever since, disputing about something. Pray, Lydia, has anything un- usual happened?"The girl shook her head, then turning to the Pequot--gave him a look which he understood, and rising from the bench, the youth followed her into the barn. But even there, where it was almost certain no one else was present, she scarcely dared trust a whisper; since she had learnt how Nathaniel Clark had discovered her father's hiding-place, even the walls, might have ears; not an evening had passed that she had not drawn the curtains over the windows--and now before she opened her lips she gazed up into the dusky hay-mow--then into each one of the stalls--   "6      ROMANCE OF THE and even raised the lid of a, bin where corn was kept, and thrust in her arm to feel if perchance it might not conceal an eavesdropper. "I want you, Christian," she began, "to render me a service for which I shall ever be grateful. It may incur some risk; but you are no coward. Are you willing to help me?" "What you say is true," replied the Indian, ' Christian no fear anything. My tomahawk is hanging in the big room; my arrows are new; who has wronged my flower?" "Oh, do not speak of your weapons, nobody has injured me. I only want you to go somewhere with a message." "But you talked about risk; then why not take tomahTwk and arrows?" Seeing how determined he was, she made no further opposition. Indeed, the only thing she feared was that in going to Mr. Clark's abode-- where Henry Synnot was probably staying-he might be discovered by Adams, and thus draw on himself the suspicion of the erratic tavern-keeper. "I am ready-speak-I go," pursued the Indian. "Hush, not so loud," whispered the girl-then, after listening a moment, she began: "I want you to follow the road which runs by this house until you come to a bridge, cross it, then continue on till you reach a stone dwelling on the left hand side.   CHARTER OAK.      147 You can't miss it-'tis the only stone house in Hartford. There ask for Captain Synnot, and if he is in, give him the following message: 'She whom he once saved from death begs him to leave the settlement this very night-he must not stay till morning.' You understand?" Christian slowly repeated her words, then going back for his weapons sallied forth into the street, and in less than ten minutes was knocking for ad- mittance at Mr. Clark's door. When Lydia returned to the fireside she found Miss Crabtree with a frown on her face, which passed away, however, as soon as she appeared. "He's still in the library worrying my nephew about dear knows what," said the dame. "Hence- forward, Miss Lydia-at least until he's quite strong - I'll put my foot down and not let Adams cross the threshold. No, nobody but you shall go near Joe. 'Twas your nursing saved his life, and I'll not have your good work undone by a scape- grace.-half crazy tavern-keeper." The girl made no response, but stood quietly be- side her father's chair, now gazing down on his white locks, then turning her eyes towards Wads- worth's study; while Goody Garlic, who narrowly watched her countenance, felt sure her charge- had some trouble on her mind, for it was not her habit to be so silent. Why had she gone into the barn with the Pequot? And why had the   "8      ROMANCE OF THE Indian come back, then departed, carrying with him his tomahawk and bow? In about five minutes the door of the library opened and Wadsworth advanced towards the hearth, his feeble gait and wan face indicating how very ill he had been. Adams was following, but instead of taking a seat by his chief and waiting to partake of the evening repast, he walked sullen- ly out of the house, glancing at Lydia as he went and muttering something she could not under- stand, but which she had only too much reason to dread were words of evil omen for Henry Synnot. Nor could she wonder that Simon enter- tained bitter feelings against him. "Poor fellow!" she said to herself, " he has set his heart on my becoming the wife of Wadsworth. Yes, he hinted it broadly enough the last visit he paid us in the wilderness; and indeed such a match would strike most people as very proper, for my views quite agree with those"of the Captain of the train-band in regard to independence; and, moreover, my parent and myself are sojourning under his roof. But no, no, I cannot be his wife-I love another. Adams suspects as much and knows that he is an officer on Andros' staff. Yet, alas! while Henry Synnot is serving King James, I would not accept his hand should he offer it." And the sorrowful ex- pression of her face grew deeper as she thought of this barrier between them.   CHARTER OAK.       149 The fire continued cheerfully to blaze; her fa- ther, garrulous old gentleman, tried to make her see fantastic images in the embers; Miss Crab- tree patted her every few. minutes on the head; Prudence rallied her for her despondent looks--all no purpose. The crackling sparks flew up the chimney- the cricket c'hirped--still Lydia remained in moody silence; and when she took her place at the supper table she hardly ate a mouthful. The only person who did not seem surprised at, her manner was Wadsworth whose counten- ance was if possible even less cheerful than her own. He had learned from  the tavern-keeper how she and the British officer had met that day near the green; and distressing as were the suspicions which Adams had conjured up, he could not altogether disbelieve them. Yes, his scout had actually seen the officer press her hand, and had offered to produce a hundred witnesses of the fact. Then, he recalled the dream which his aunt had told Dr. Mather. Was it coming true?  Had the devil, indeed, whispered in Lydia's ear? She certainly went no more to meeting on the Sabbath, nor did she attend the Thursday lectures. "But in that vision," he soliloquized, "my aunt saw Nancy Clark whispering to her-no, it was a lying dream as far as that young woman is concerned- Nancy is good--Nancy is sure 6f heaven--O would   150      ROMANCE OF THE I were half as sure of it as she! -Poor Nancy! Haunting memory! Wherever I go I hear her warning voice. When I was ill I could swear I sawr her kneeling near my bed, and Miiss Lydia de- clares that once I shrieked her name. Here Wads- worth looked nervously round and shuddered as if he had seen some horrible object, while drops of perspiration moistened his brow. ' Ah, Joe!" exclaimed his aunt, shaking her top- knot over him, "you're not looking as well as a couple of hours ago; you're excited about some- thing. If you're not careful, you'll get a relapse, and then even IMiss Lydia's nursing may not rescue you a second time from the grave. I was in hopes since Israel Barebones had delivered his harangue in favor of -peace, that you had given up your scheme of rebellion; yet I'm sure you and Miad Adams have been talking war.. Fie on him, for not knowing better than to worry a sick man with such matters! Fie on him!" Wadsworth let her talk on, and we may rely upon it the dame did not finish her scoring of the publican, till the latter had been called many a rudo name; and she wound up by handing her nephew entirely over to the keeping of Lydia. The girl could not help blushing and casting her eyes on the floor when the aunt came to this part of the exhortation, for she did not doubt that Simon   CHARTER OAK.       151 had informed her host all about her interview with the officer; and while the old lady entertained so exalted an opinion of her, what place must she hold in Wadsworth's estimation? I thank Miss Lydia, a thousand, thousand times for her unceasing care of me, during my ill- ness," murmured Wadsworth; "you could not have handed me over to the keeping of one in whom I take a profounder interest." These words he spoke without lifting his eyes from the fire; his arms were crossed on his breast, and his voice, though low, was earnest and full of deep feeling. "Which ever way I turn," he soliloquized, " the horizon is dark. If my vow was a vow which I am not bound to keep - and the learned and pious Dr. 3Iather says it was prompted by the devil-then am I powerless to resist the passion I feel for the regicide's daughter. I have prayed for strength- yet I am weaker than ever. O Nancy, what would you say if you could read my heart? How you would despise me! And Lydia, bewitching crea- ture! what is this- Adams has been telling me about you? Oh, who will explain my aunt's horrible dream?"Here his head sank on his breast and he remained with closed lips for more than an hour. Colonel Goffe tried to engage him in conversation, Prudence pulled Lydia by the sleevo and urged her to say something to rouse him from his stupor, Charity almost cried; but there he sat   152      - ROMANCE OF THE heedless of their entreaties to return to his couch. Once only did he look up and then his cavern- ous eyes turned upon Lydia, but the girl seemed to shun his gaze. Her own arms were folded.- She was not thinking of him, nor of her father, nor of Nancy Clark, nor of the widow Bull, nor the bed- ridden Mrs. Japheth, but of one whom she loved with an intensity which she could not explain to her own self--the very spot on her hand which he had once kissed seemed again to feel the pres- sure of his lips. She could not much longer re- main indoors. The hour was growing late, it was time for her to seek repose, but for Lydia Goffe, there was to be no sleep this night; Henry Svnnot's life was in danger, she would hazard her own to save it. "Woe to Adams if his dagger finds its mark," she said to herself, suddenly rising from her chair-"I can strike as desperately as he." She was anxious that the family should retire to rest, so that she might slip out of the house unseen, and rightly judged that if she led the way up stairs' the others would presently follow, and then, when they would be all asleep, her chance would come. Accordingly, she bade them good night, and with- drew to her bedroom, wishing that dame  Garlic were with her, for ever since Wadsworth had appeared to her there in his sleep, she had felt a horror of being in it alone. But never had she felt   CHARTER OAK.       153 so nervous as now. The lamp flickered and seemed every moment on the point of going out; the ancient chair,in which her host's father and grand- father had breathed their last,loomed rup to- double its usual size, and when she glanced at the horse- shoe on' the bed. post she half fancied she saw a witch standing by it. "What a fool I am to be so agitated," she said to herself, just as Goody Garlic appeared; " and yet I can't help it; 1 'may see blood to-night." Half an hour later the house was silent. Lydia had heard her father, Miss Crabtree and Wads- worth ascend the staircase; Prudence was already snoring-now was her opportunity. With heav- ing heart she rose and softly put oh her gown. There was no fear, however, of awakening the old nurse--scarceTy anything less than an Indian war- whoop could have done that-it was Miss Crab- tree's ears the girl most dreaded, for they seemed ever on the alert. In order, therefore, to make as little noise as possible, she discarded her shoes and put on her moccasins, then having clasped her hands and breathed a short prayer, glided out of the room and down the staircase, which creaked in the most provoking manner. Once on the lower floor she was safe and felt tempted to stay a moment and warm herself by the smouldering embers. But   1.54      ROMANCE OF THE there was no time to lose--perhaps Adams had already set out on his evil mission; so throwing her scarlet mantle over. her shoulders, she gently raised the latch and went on her way. It was a sweet spring night-the frogs were croaking-the air was scented with clover blossoms and wild flowers--and under other circumstances Lydia would have enjoyed a walk at this hour. But now only one object engrossed her thoughts--where was Maad Adams? The nine o'clock bell began to ring as she hurried along in the direction of the Bunch of Grapes, and when she had got to within a short distance of it, she halted and listened. "Yes," she said, "that's his voice bidding some one good- night. Honest publican, how careful he is to close his door at nine! Thank God he has not yet gone to lay in wait for Henry." Presently, she heard footsteps approaching, and in another moment Christian was by her side. "Did you deliver my message?" she whispered, eagerly seizing his arm. "Yes, he go way before morning," was the lad's response. "Good! but tell me did Mr. Clark or any one else see you speaking to the officer?" "M1ad Adams saw me coming out of the gate, Miss." Lydia started: "sorry, very sorry," she mur- mured. "This Clark is a partisan of the tyrant i -   CHARTER OAK.       155 Andros, who they say is enlistinug Indians in his service. Oh, I am sorry. Adams will suspect that you went there for a bad purpose." To this Chris- tian made no reply, but asked if she wanted him to do anything more. "Yes," said Lydia, "I want you to approach a few steps nearer the tayern, and see who that is shutting the windows." The Pequot obeyed, and soon came back to report that it was Simon. In another moment they heard him walk away. "Now give me your tomahawk," whispered Ly dia, " and then return to Mr. Wadsworth's; but if you meet anybody don't tell where I am." Christian, although surprised at her strange re- quest, allowed her to take his weapon; then shrug- ging his shoulders turned on his heel and proceed- ed towards the Captain's abode. It was not his purpose, however, to leave one in whom' he felt such an interest, alone at this hour of the night, and bent on dear knows what mad freak. So, after he had advanced about fifty paces he stopped, listened a moment, then noiselessly retraced his steps. CHAPTER XXXTTT. SWIFTLY Lydia glided along the street. She could not distinguish Adams' figure in the dark-   156      ROMANCE OF THE ness, but the soutrd of his footsteps guided her in the direction he wMt taking. As she had suspected he was bent on an errand of vengeance, and once when she had appr oached perhaps a little nearer than- was prudent, she heard him cursing the British officer, who he firmly believed had robbed the Captain of the ti zin-band of a priceless jewel. Then a laugh followG, the curse-a laugh so wild that it sent the blood to her heart, and several win- dows flew open and th^ inmates looked out wonder- ing at the sound. As it died away she clutched the handle of the tomahLawk--Adams might accom- plish his purpose but not without bringing swift retribution on his own head. Soon Lydia and the one she was following had crossed the bridge, and in a few minutes more the taxvern-keeper's footsteps ceased-he had stopped at Mr. Clark's gate. The girl's heart beat louder, and gliding on she present- ly caught. sight of his figure leaning against the fence. At once she, crouched down, and straining her eyes through the darkness anxiously waited for his next'move. It was some time, however, before he changed his position; then, opening the gate and with body bent low, he glided up towards the stable, which was partly in the rear of Mr. Clark's mansion, and in the open door of which a lantern was glimmering. Lydia rose to follow, and had al- ready entered the path when suddenly he came   CHARTER OAK.       157 running back and she had barely time to throw herself flat on the ground when he hastened by. "( He must have discovered something," she thought, springing to her feet just as he gained the road, "perhaps the Captain is saddling his horse, in which case I'd better warn him to leave town by another way. With this object in view she was on the point of going up to the house when the door opened and Mr. Clark appeared with'his guest. "A fine night," said Nancy's father. ' Yes, I would as leave travel now as in the. day time," the officer replied. Fearful of being seen by Mr. Clark, Lydia did not wait to hear more, but withdrew, resolved to follow Adams, whose tread she could distinguish going in a southerly direction, and who, little dream- ing that anybody was on his tracks, did not stop again until he had gone a full mile beyond the con- fines of the settlement. There he halted and be- gan carefully examining the ground on both sides of the road, at this point densely lined with hazel bushes, while a few paces back the forest trees reared their shadowy forms; and in the branches of one of them a screech-owl was uttering its dole- ful cry. It was the very spot to accomplish his fell design. The report of his pistol would hardly reach the ears of the guard on Wyllys' hill, should they be awake, which, however, was not at all   158     . ROMANCE OF THE probable, for since Wadsworth's illness, the discip. line and soldiery habits of the train-band had woe- fully relaxed. Having selected his place of ambush he disap- peared from view, and presently the girl, following his example, likewise hid herself among the bushes, whence she began anxiously listening for the ap- proach of her lover. There was something awful in the stillness of the night, broken only by the voice of the owl, and it was perhaps to keep his courage up that Simon commenced in a  few minutes to whistle and hack at a tree with his sword. "He has taken more than one glass of liquor, before starting out," thought Lydia; " yes, I'm sure he has." Now and( then the whistling would cease, he was doubtless listening for Captain Synnot. At length he became perfectly quiet, and she wondered if he might have changed his hiding-place. Yet this did not seem probable, for she had not heard a twig crackle; could he have fallen asleep? As this thought struck her, she got up and was on the point of advancing to reconnoitre, when she was startled by hearing her name whispered, and look- ing round beheld the Indian close by. "You move like a spirit," she said, "I thought you were at Captain Wadsworth's?" "No, Christian here," was the stolid answer. "Why did you not obey me?"To this there   CHARTER OAK.       159 was no response, and knowing how useless it would be to argue the matter with him, Lydia in a few words explained the object of lher coming out at such an, hour; then informing him that Adams was lying concealed not many paces off--bade him try and discover if he were sleeping--" and if he is," she added, "steal his weapons." The Pequot nodded, then telling her to lay down again, proceeded to carry out her instructions. A- quarter of an hour must hate elapsed before he re- appeared. How the girl's heart beat during that interval? Were Adams awake, what might hap- pen, if he found the Indian crawling upon him? But Christian was a fuill-blooded Pequot and he performed his mission without stirring a twig or a leaf--as Lydia had said, he moved like a spirit, and almost before she could distinguish his dusky form he had placed on her lap the tavern-keeper's sword and pistol. "Good, good," she whispered, "oh, I cannot tlhank you enough; and now, Christian, I once more beg you return to Mr. Wadsworth's. But as you cross the bridge throw Simon's arms into the river. Also, take back your tomahawk, I shall have no use for it." The youth again pretended to obey; then, after he had been gone about five minutes, Lydia, rose and followed in the same direction. She wished to   160      rOMANCE OF TIIE speak a few words with Henry Synnot, and pre. ferred to meet him at a spot further away from Adams, who might be roused by the horse's tramp, and who, as soon as he missed his weapons, would suspect her of the theft if he found her conversing with the officer. Captain Synnot and the daughter of the regicide met half way between Mr. Clark's house and the tavern-keeper's place of ambush, and it would be difficult to describe the astonishment of her lover when he found her all by herself on the high road at that time of night. Hastily dismounting, he asked what had brought her there. "To make more certain of your safety," answered Lydia. "A short distance ahead lies one bent on taking your life. Bi I have stolen his arms, and now the danger is averted. Do not punish him, or heed aught that he may say, should the tramp of your steed wake him as you go by-he was sleeping soundly, however, when I left him a while ago." "Brave girl!" exclaimed Synnot, "you are just what I took you to be the first time we met. Yes, Goffe's blood runs in your veins ;r to please you the wretch shall go unpunished. But tell me who was the Indian you sent to give me notice of this peril? I met him a short distance back, walking towards' the settlement."   CHARTER OAK.       161 Lydia now briefly narrated what she knew about the Pequot-his faithful services to her father in their home up the Connecticut; and ended by ex- pressing her sorrow that Mad Adams should have discovered him as he was leaving- Mr. Clark's that evening. "All his race," she went on, " are sus- pected of being in the pay of Andros, and poor Christian may fall under the suspicion of the -town folks." Captain Synnot remained silent a moment. He could not deny that many of the Indian tribes had been bribed by Sir Edmund to side against the colonists, should the latter rise against his authority --and as Lydia went on speaking, he felt more keenly than ever, the difficult part he was playing. While he remained on Sir Edmund's staff he wished loyally to perform his duty ; yet had he not already proved faithless? Had he not concealed what he knew of the regicide? Ought he now to -reveal to Lydia Goffe, whom he almost worshipped, what he knew of Andros' plot with the savages?"No, I cannot, 'twould be dishonorable," he said. Then gazing up on the starry heavens, lhe uttered a fer- vent prayer that a change might take place in the mother country ; that a more liberal monarch might come to the throne, one who would better under- stand how to treat the colonies. "Then " he con- tinued, "this noble-spirited girl might return my   162      ROMANCE OF THE love; but while I serve KingJames, she never will." Suddenly, and as if she had read his thoughts, Lydia withdrew the hand he was clasping, and in a voice which betrayed a shadow of scorn, "go sir," she said; "delay no longer. You have doubtless important dispatches for your master in Boston-- go! I will stay and do my utmost to thwart his wicked schemes." "We cannot tell what is in the womb of the future," returned Synnot. "Do not reproach me, Miss Goffe. Let us hope a day may arrive when you will view with less dis- favor the colors I serve under. Judge me with charity; and in Boston, or wherever else I may be, I vow that you-you alone shall have all my heart." With this he dropped on his knee, and again seiz- ing her hand pressed it to his lips. Lydia's bosom heaved.  Oh, what would she have given to have spoken out all that she felt. "May I hope," continued the officer, rising up, "that you will think of me now and then, and when you hear those who wear my uniform spoken ill of, say tc yourself, 'there is one among them who loves liberty.'" "I will," murmured Lydia; "oh, yes, I  will." With this she turned away and left him to re-   CHARTER OAK.       163 resume his journey. Mad Adams did not hear him go by-at least the publican did not show himself --and with his heavy cloak wrapped round him the officer gave himself up to visions of happier days, which he could not help believing would come sooner or later; and neither the dismal voices of the owls nor the danger of perhaps being over- taken by Adams, prevented this night-ride through the forest from being the pleasantest in many a. year. Lydia, on her part, kept thinking of him as she hastened towards the north end of the settle- ment. "I love Henry," she said, " as I never could love MAr. Wadsworth; and yet the Cap- tain of the train-band has all my sympathy, and I will uphold with my feeble power the cause he so dearly cherishes. Yes, these colonies have been long enough tied to England-the hour has come for them to govern themselves."' As she passed the widow's cottage she thought of Nancy- and breathed a prayer for the poor outcast. " Does Wadsworth," she said to herself, " know how much that young woman loves him? From the way he called her name during his delirium, I'm certain there was a time when he loved her. What se- cret reason can have made him turn against my friend? I hardly believe his aunt has influenced him,"   164 .-     ROMANCE OF THE Suddenly, she came upon Christian standing on the edge of the green, evidently waitingg for her. The girl's first impulse was to scold the youth for this second disobedience-but a moment's reflec tion convinced her, that he had refrained from going home through fear lest some mishap might befall her, and when he announced that Adams' sword and pistol were at the bottom of the river, she burst into a hearty laugh, then told him he would one day be well rewarded. To her astonishment, the Pequot shook his head, -and in a sad voice murmured, "No, Christain never get his reward." What could he mean? Little did she dream how this untutored savage had fallen under the same in- fluence which had captivated Synnot and Wads- worth, and that but for her he would not have re- mained so contenltedly -serving her father in their home up the Connecticut--"Oh yes," she went on, "you shall have plenty of wampun and a new blanket, and whatever may become of us, you shall be taken care of. I have friends in other towns besides Hartford." "No, Miss Lvdia," replied the youth, "when you leave me I go on the war-path." Here he brandished his tomahawk and gave a loud war- whoop. "Hush! for mercy sake, hush!" exclaimed the girl. "That's a fearful sound to the white mau's    CHARTER OAK.       165 ear. 'Tis well the folks are asleep, yet the guards may hear it." He did not repeat the cry, but walked beside her without opening his lips again, and in a few minutes they found themselves at Captain Wadsworth's. CHAPTER   XXTV. IT is a lovely Sabbath afternoon in May, and since the night Lydia had thwarted the tavern-keeper's bloody design, two weeks have elapsed-weeks of sore trial for the girl. Miss Crabtree had unfor- tunately discovered her entering the house with the: Pequot after Adams' sword and pistol had been taken from him, and we can imagine what the dame must have thought, and what she said next morn- ing when the household met in the large first story room, Of course she had heard of Lydia's inter- view, in broad daylight, and before the eyes of half the town, with Andros' bearer of despatches, and had naturally concluded that the girl's nocturnal expedition had had something to do with the British officer. The result had been a violent quarrel between herself and Prudence, who through good and evil report stood by her darling Lydia- not altogether disbelieving what was said of the   166      ROMANCE OF THE girl-yet remembering hor much she herself was to blame for the unhappy turn which affairs were taking. "Yes, 'twas all my fault," the old nurse would sigh, " all my fault; why did I let him kiss her hand that night we were entering' the settle- ment? But if prayin' 'll do any good she'll yet get the best of the world, the flesh and the devil- oh Lord, Lord, have mercy on her!"Then again, Christian, whom Lydia and her father were so at- tached to, had been warned by the select-men (who although they had lost faith in Wadsworth's scheme of rebellion, nevertheless dreaded what might fol- low, should the savages be given a fresh supply of powder and ball,) to leave Hartford, Adams having told them how he had discovered the youth coming out of Mr. Clark's house where no doubt he had gone to receive a bribe and swear fidelity to Sir Edmund. And this tell-tale act had widened the breach between Simon and Lydia, who, when- ever he appeared anxious to make friend., would turn on him an expression full of disdain ; then sud- denly a faint smile would play on her lips as she remembered the trick which she and Christian had served him while he lay asleep among the hazel bushes. And this smile would irritate Adams beyond measure, for he shrewdly suspected that she knew more about his lost weapons than she cared to divulge. Moreover, to add to her un-   CHARTER OAK.      167 happiness the health of Colonel Goffe had grown worse-his rheumatism obliging him to keep abed-- and she saw that she must continue where she was instead of seeking a place-of refuge with the widow Bull. Yes, had the regicide been able to move about, Lydia would certainly have left Wadsworth's roof. Not that her feelings towards the Captain had changed in the least, no, she esteemed him as much as ever, and never let an occasion pass to tell the people what fools they were not to rally round him and begin a struggle for independence. But Wadsworth's passion for her had become more open than when he had first fallen under her in- fluence; his every look and word, gave warning that he would not delay much longer asking her hand. And can we wonder at his renewed fervor? His vow was not any more an obstacle in his path- Increase Mather, in whom he reposed greater faith than in any other human being, had called it an in- spiration of the devil-while her devotion to him during his illness, he looked upon as proof that she returned his love. He believed what Adams had told him about her interview with Henry Synnot. He likewise believed that the bagpipe-player at the husking had been the same officer in disguise, but this had not for a moment shaken his faith in her patriotism. "For secret reasons," he would say to himself, "'she has held communication with this   168      ROMANCE OF THE bearer of despatches; mayhap she is making use of him to obtain news of the doings in Boston, and her bewitching face is well calculated to thriow the stranger off his guard. Did she not fly to me as soon as she heard that her father's retreat was dis- covered? Did she not tell me she never could be grateful enough for my hospitality to the old soldier? No, no, Adams is a wily fellow, but he has not yet fathomed the heart of Lydia Goffe. Why should she not be my wife? I can forgive all she said about, stocks and whipping-posts; yes, her enthusiasm for independence makes me forget all that; would to God my train-band had her spirit.' Such were the thoughts which passed through Wadsworth's mind as, leaning on her arm, he went his way to meeting this Sabbath afternoon. The girl herself remained silent, and to the wondering glances which many of the townfolks cast on her, she returned a look of haughty contempt. Israel Barebones whispered to Mr. Philbrick that she was the hardest nut he had ever had to crack. "Here she has been nigh three months in Hart- ford, and only once has she been to meeting; she ought to be punished. But although the new tith- ing-man has made a complaint, somehow folks ain't willing to treat her as they would other sabbath breakers." "Aye," rejoined Mr. Philbrick, "'tis Wads-   CHARTER OAK.     '  169 worFth's influence shields her. Strange to see such a godly man in her company. Alas! I fear Cap- taiin Joe has allowed her uncommonno beauty to mas- ter his good sense." "'Tis an old story," pursued the ruling elder, roll- ing his cadaverous eyes towards the sky. "Women give more trouble in this world than they're worth. True, they show great fervor at meeting and do most of the psalm signing, but it aint genuine piety; and I sometimes think, when I hear 'er schreech- ing out 'praise the Lord,' that it's only one of Beelzebub's noisy spirits has got into 'em. Alas, alas!" "And it was this girl," resumed Mr. Philbrick, ' who set us dancing and made us commit other sinful acts, at Capt. Joe's party." "Speak not of that unhallowed gathering," groaned BMr. Barebones; " to this day am I doing penance for the sins I committed on that occasion, and 'twill require much fasting, much walking in my bare feet, to atone for them." At this, Tom Hubbard, who was standing close by, gave Dorothy a pinch and felt tempted to utter one of his cat-calls ; but his father's presence warn- ed lim that he had better hold his tongue. Bs this time Wadsworth and Lydia had reached the green, and without speaking to any body were ad-   170      ROMANCE OF 'THE vancing towards the entrance of the meeting-house, when suddenly a figure approached them from be- hind: "I rejoice," whispered Nancy to her friend, " to see you coming here. Yes, it fills my soul with joy." Lydia stopped for a moment, gazed fixedly at the speaker, then shook her head, while Wads- worth felt his conscience reproach him, and did not even have the courage to raise his eyes on Nancy. Before he could recover from his embarrassment, Lydia had left him, and accompanied by her friend, was making her way back to the road. "How like my aunt's dream," he said, gazing after them. "H ow like my aunt's dream." Prayers had already begun when Nancy appear- ed among the worshipers, and as she took her place in front of Miss Crabtree, the captain of the train- band felt that he must have wronged the young woman to have suspected, even for an instant, that she would have dissuaded Lydia from entering the House of God. "Oh, what a slave I have become!" he groaned. "I cannot break my bonds-I am carried away by an irresistible power. No, I cannot do what Dr. Mather advised; I will brave the sting of con- science, though 'tis an agony of hell--Lydia Goffe   CHATTE  e OAr.     171 shall not escape me. Oh, Nancv--heavenborn crea- ture, I am a worm not worthy to be trodden under thy blessed feet." Presently the clergyman began a fiery discourse on the Sin of Lying, and every member of the con- gregation lent an attentive ear, save him whose head was now bowed on his breast. Wadsworth heard not a word-never had his soul been so rack- ed as during this hour of preaching. At length the exhortation came to an end, and the people slowly dispersed, not a few--especially the women -showing by their countenances that. they had told a good many fibs in their lives and that the minister's words had filled them with terror. But Miss Crabtree's face was the palest of all, and for the first time in a week she deigned to address Goody Garlic, requesting the latter to pray for her. it once, Prudence felt all her old affection for C(ha- rity return-the latter had been the first to speak, and now as they walked home, although the goodwife did not ask what particular lie pressed so heavily on the conscience of her friend, she spoke with all the eloquence at her command of the Lord's mercy to sinners. Miss Crabtree drew a long breath as the dame pursued this happy theme, and we be- lieve that had she met Nancy on the road she would have confessed the wrong she had done her and craven forgiveness.   172      ROMANCE OF THE When Wadsworth, who had lingered awhile be- hind his aunt, finally left the house of prayer, the first object which met his eye was Lydia, waiting for him. on the edge of the green. . Again, heedless of the staring crowd, the girl boldly advanced and offered him her arm for support, and as he took it the Captain's brow crimsoned--he felt his heart throb. But they had gone almost half way home before he found courage to open his lips; 'he then asked why she had not entered the meeting-house with him. "Nancy urged me to," replied Lydia, "and if I would have done it to please any mortal, it would have been to please her. But you know, sir, I de- test the harsh doctrines of your religion, and the sermon I heard when I first arrived in Hartford displeased me so much that I never wish to hear another." Again tley were silent, and Wadsworth, as his arm rested on hers, felt the thrill of passion run' through his whole frame. "Why not tell her what I feel," he said to himself; " the worst she can do is to refuse me; yes, I will confess my love! Fool that I am to hesitate-precious days and weeks * are passing by." While he was thus soliloquizing, the same figure which had approached them when they had been near the meeting-house, again glided up. Nancy   CHARTER OAK.       173 could not resists the strong desire she felt to con- gratulate Wadsworth on his recovery. He knew her step, and presently the same gentle voice which had once inspired him with the tenderest of all earthly emotions, broke on his ear. "She has come to save me," he murmured, "to save me; but it is too late." Then turning, -he gave the young woman a look which startled her, and hiding her face in her hands she let him go his way. "Come, come, Miss Goffe," he whispered "I do'not wish to stop and talk with Miss Clark--I hate her!" "Hate her!" said Lydia. "No, Wadsworth, you do not-'twas the devil made you say that." Here the Captain's arm shook, and glancing at his face the girl saw that it was fearfully con- vulsed. "I am doomed," he groaned; "aye, I see hell waiting for me." "Mr. Wadsworth," pursued Lydia, "what trou- bles you? You appear to dread Nancy Clark--oh, if you had heard how she prayed for your recovery!" "And God heard her prayer," said the Captain, with bitterness. "Why did He not let me die?" "Because He means through you to accomplish a glorious work. Yes, he spared you to lead these colonies to independence." Here Wadsworth gave a demoniac laugh, which made Lydia shudder. There was in it such a blend-   174      ROMANACE OF THE ing of rage and despair. What had Nancy done to wring from him such a cry? At this moment and while they were hastening towards his house- the girl half afraid lest her companion might go mad before reaching it-Miles Standish trotted up. "Begone," exclaimed Wadsworth, " begone, I tell you!"But the dog, without wagging its tail or showing the least sign that it heard its master's voice, passed ahead of them; then after it had gone a short distance turned and fixed its solemn eyes on Wadsworth; nor did it withdraw its gaze when the Captain, coming up, gave it a push with his- foot-no, it kept looking at him, looking at him, until he disappeard from view. "You once declared your belief," said Lydia, "that Miles had a soul. ' Well, I believe so too." Her host made no response, but walked on in si- lence until they came to his home. Here he drew a long breath, while a sad smile played on his coun- tenance, and as he raised the latch, "I almost wish," he said, "I might never leave the house again. Yes, I could seat myself in that ancient chair where father and grandfather breathed their last, and never rise from it. Oh death, welcome friend, come to me!"   CHABTEB OAK.       175 CHAPTER XXXV. MAY passed by without Henry Synnot coming again to Hartford; while Christian, who, as we re- member, had been ordered to leave the settlement, was now wandering somewhere in the forest. But whenever Lydia would mention his name. Mad Adams, who spent a part of every evening at Wadsworth's, would give her an angry glance and say that the Pequot was earning a living in a worse way than shooting deer or spearing salmon. The quarrel between Miss Crabtree and Prudence having been made up, the dames were now greater friends than before, the mistress of the house wise- ly refraining from saying anything suspicious about Lydia--although the girl's interview with Captain Synnot was still a sore point with her-and Goody Garlic, often discoursing on the mercy of: God to sinners, and declaring her belief that the falsehood which had pressed so heavily upon her friend's conscience since the sermon mentioned in the pre- vious chapter, was forgiven. "'Twould be well, however," Prudence would add, "in case 'twas something untrue spoken of a neighbor, to ask that neighbor's pardon." Whereat Charity, groaning in spirit, would abruptly turn away and betake her- self to her oven, muttering, "I wish I could; but no, my pride won't let me; I cannot bow down to her." Yet, of late she had not uttered an unchar-   i176      ROMANCE OF THE itable word of Nancy, nor did she frown when Lydia would come home and tell them that she had been paying Mr. Clark's daughter a-visit. This renewed cordiality between the old maids ren- dered the girl somewhat more resigned to continu- ing under Wadsworth's roof. Indeed, as we have already remarked, it would have been impossible for her to have gone away, as her father M as suffer- ing more than ever from rheumatism, "and my host" she would say to herself, " albeit he has seemed on the very point of doing it, has not yet asked me to be his wife; so until he does and I refuse, there can be no impropriety in remaining here." Wadsworth, since the sabbath when he had gone to meeting leaning on her arm, had kept himself under unusual restraint, and would now hardlv lift his eyes when his young guest approached. The cause of this sudden and remarkable change was a letter which he had received from Increase Ma- ther, wherein the divine had spoken of the deep impression which the story of his vow had pro- duced on him, and had again declared that it had been inspired by the devil. In conclusion the minister had urged him to marry Nancy Clark, as being the only course he could pursue with tilhe blessing of God. The Captain had torn the letter up, but he would often ponder over the great man's advice, and once when the regicide's daughter en-   CHABTER OAK.       1" tered the library for a book, she found Miles Stan- dish with his head resting on his master's knee, and for the first time since she had known Wads- worth, his eyes were moistened with tears. Better for him had she not placed her hand on his arm and asked the cause of his trouble. Her touch went through his whole frame; he ground his teeth, and while she stood bending over him, instead of waving her away, he feasted his eyes on her beauty. True, he did not speak a word, but when Lydia left the room he had again fallen. So things went on quietly and monotonously. It was June, and the stuffed figure which Tom Hubbard had set up in his fa ther's field was doing good service, keep- ing away ';he birds, and now the corn had reached such a hright that only the battered hat of the scare- crow w&s visible above the green stalks. The barley and rye as well as the corn promised to be abundant, and the people of Hartford were in excellent spirits, while Israel Barebones seized every oppor- tunity to impress upon them that this bountiful yield was all owing to their having abandoned Wadsworth's wild scheme for a revolution, and turned their thoughts to cultivating the soil and practising their religion. Sometimes Adams, when he would hear him talking in this strain would mutter an oath, but - remembering the influence of the ruling elder, who could easily have had him de-   178      ]ROMA NCE OF THE prived of his licsense to keep the Ordinary, he never ventured further in manifesting his contempt. Once, however, he did make bold to ask him what he advised the people to do in case Andros came to seize the charter. Mr. Barebones, before an, swering, took a careful survey of the men standing near, then as if he had read their hearts,- replied: ' We will let him have the parchment; it is not worth the price of blood. Our right to levy taxes and hold town-meetings is already abolished; Gov- ernor Treat is powerless; we could not prevail against Sir Edmund, with England's army and fleet to back him. I repeat, Mr. Adams, (and he strong- ly emphasized the word Mr.) the Lord will deal us justice in his own good time; and the less we talk of opposing his Excellency the better. King Phil- ip's war has left wounds still unhealed, yet that struggle would be nothing compared to the misery which would inevitably follow one such as Joseph Wadsworth desires to bring on." We cannot describe the publican's feelings as he listened to this speech, and it would have taken but very little indeed to have made him insult the goodman. Fortunately, his shrewdness overcame his anger; he remembered that he could be of more service to Wadsworth as keeper of the Or- dinary tihan in any other capacity--for it was there the people assembled in' the evenings to discuss   CHARTER OAK.       179 the topics of the day, thus affording him the best opportunity to learn their real temper; so rather e than forfeit his license, he withdrew from the group and did not again-interrupt the speaker, who continued to harangue the people on the 'sub- ject of religion, urging them to renewed fervor and to trust in the Almighty, not in Joseph Wadsworth, for a redress of their grievances. It was while Adams was sauntering towards the house of his chief to whom he meant to repeat the remarks which he had just heard H1r. Barebones make, that Lydia overtook him, and for the first time in weeks laid aside her distant manner, and in a voice full of emotion, said, " oh, Adams, tell. me who amongst the townfolks is the most skilled in the healing art, I have just left Jacob Japheth's, where Nancy and I have been since early morning -the poor fellow is growing worse and worse; but 'tis only now he believes himself seriously ill, and is willing to have me get a physician." "Jacob Japheth ill!" exclaimed Simon. "Why, it's not five days since he was up and about, as well Its I ami at this moment. It must be something sudden and violent?" "Yes, a severe cold has fastened on his lungs-- at least that I should judge to be his ailment. Do let me know, where to find a doctor." The tavern-keeper stood musing a moment,   180      ROMANCE OF THE frowned-muttered something which Lydia did not understand, then, with a shrug of his shoulder, re- plied, "well, Israel Barebones is the one in whom most people trust, to restore them to health. But --humph!-I dare say 'twas why poor Jacob wouldn't send for him. The ruling elder was the cause of his losing the office of tithing-man-and, Miss Lydia, you had something to do with that." "I! what do you mean, Adams?" "I mean that when Jacob found you were deter- mined to continue a sabbath-breaker, he made up his mind to resign; but before he did-he was turned out. As a consequence, the narrow-minded people have given him no more shoes to mend, he has been hard pushed to feed his wife and children, and anxiety has doubtless brought on this illness. Oh, what a fool I was not to drop in and ask if he needed anything." "Yes! so was I," exclaimed Lydia. "No, Miss, you suffered enough watching at the bedside of Captain Joe, and could not have been expected to go visiting the needy ones so soon. Oh, Miss Lydia, if you only knew how Captain Joe  ." Divining what he was about to say, she abruptly turned and hastened off in search of Mr. Bare- bones, whose skill she hoped might restore the cob- bler to health. She found him still haranguing '.;   CHARTER OAK.      181 the group, as when Adams had left him a short while before, but she was too intent on her errand- to heed what he was saying; she noticed, however Mr. Clark standing near, listening with evident de- light, and fancied that she saw his eyes twinkle as she approached, for Nancy's father knew that she did not agree with the speaker, and aware of hei bold spirit, hoped that he was going to witness a controversy between herself and the ruling elder. In this, however, he was disappointed; Lydia merely tapped the goodman on the arm, then having made him a sign, he followed her out of the crowd. "I have come," she said, "to take you to my friend, Jacob Japheth, who lies at this moment very ill indeed ; I hear you are skilled in medicine." "Aye," responded Mr. Barebones, "I have healed many who were at death's door; at least so the people believe ; but it is an ungodly spirit which prompts them to think thus. The Almighty, Miss, the Lord of Heaven and Earth--He cured them, (:nd not Israel Barebones, who only administered remedies according to the world, but whpse prayers did the good work. Aye, Miss, there is a mighty power in prayer." While he was giving utterance to these words, Lydia felt tempted to upbraid him for the manner in which he had treated Mr. Japheth; but upon   182      ROMANCE OF THE reflection, she thought best not to speak of it just then; so, she merely asked how soon he would go to the cobbler's house. "At once, Miss, at once; and do you come with me. I have not seen you at meeting these ten weeks, perhaps you will join me in praying for his recovery; and while on your knees, the Lord may inspire you to become a better woman and to own the Covenant." Without making any answer, she led him away from the group of men, all of whom regarded her as a very strange being-one who had appeared amongst them suddenly, coming they could not tell from whence, who had made- the Captain of the train-band bow to her influence, " and who now," they said, " is persuading even Israel Bare- bones to do her bidding." In a few minutes Lydia and the ruling eldebr were at the cobbler's house, and as the door opened, thee goodman was much struck by the appearance of the little boy, who greeted them. Yes, Tommy looked a great deal older than when he had seen him last.' But no wonder; the poor child had done everything which had to be done during the past week for his father and mother. He had chopped the wood, kindled the fire, gone to the well for water, weeded the garden, arranged everyday his mother's bed, so as to make her as comfortable as   CHARTER OAK.       183 possible, (poor soul! the whole world for her, was only the length and breadth of the mattress), and then at night had sat up listening to his father's delirious wanderings as he-tossed about on a blan- ket near Mrs. Japheth. And besides all this, Tommy had not forgotten Bob the Robin, who had received his regular supply of food, and who now, as Lydia entered, gave a loud whistle, hopped down from the perch, spread out his wings, then hopped up again, evidently in the greatest delight. The ruling elder, after shakiing Tommy's hand, ap- proached Mr. Japheth, and bending down felt his pulse, then began asking different questions of the boy, who was wetting a cloth to spread over his father's forehead. Leaving him thus engaged, Lydia betook herself to the bedside of the wife, whom Nancy was endeavoring to console, and add- ing her voice to that of her friend, she assured the invalid that her husband would soon be restored to health, by the good man whom she had brought with her. At the mention of Mr. Barebones' name, Mrs. Japheth frowned. "It may be wrong, Miss," she murmured, "but I cannot help it-I hate him! 'Twas he set the folks against my Jacob 'cause he wouldn't carry out the law, -and told 'em to give him no more work, and so Jacob's brain got racked with anxiety; and the first illness has   184      ROMANCE OF THE knocked him flat. Something tells me he'll never get up again from the blanket. Oh, Israel Bare- bones, how I hate you!" All this was spoken in a low voice, but we doubt if Mrs. Japheth would have been so modest in her tone had not Nancy given her an imploring look. Presently, there was a rap on the door, and Tommy admitted four other people-Captain Wadsworth, Adams, Miss Crabtree and Prudence Garlic--the women carrying on each arm a basket of good things, while Charity, in addition, brought a book of psalms. Not that she doubted but Mr. Japh- ethl posessed one; but she never could feel inspired -she never could raise her voice to what she called the 'pitch of glory,' unless she used her own well- fingered volume. It was a good while since the dame had found herself in the cobbler's home, and now as her keen grey eyes surveyed this wretched apartment her face brightened. "Aye," she said to herself, "Mr. Japheth did not carry out the law; through his neglect souls have been damned. He was a bad tithing-man, poverty overtook him and now death-is approaching." Then fixing her glance on the sick man's countenance, "aye," she continued, "there's no mistaking that look; it's peculiar to death. Our ruling elder may do his best-nothing will re- store Mr. Japheth to his work bench--no, nothing   CHARTER OAK.       185 but the power which raised Lazarus. 'Yet who knows a miracle may be wrought." I'd like to see one, I've read of so many. Oh, what a thing it would be to tell Mrs. Philbrick that I'd seen a miracle." While she was thus soliloquizing, Mr. Barebones had kept feeling the pulse, and having satisfied Ihimself about the malady gave Mr. Japheth a long and searching look-he was mentally bidding him good-by-then stretching out one of his cadaver- ou's hands he drew towards him the cobbler's son, and after whispering something in the boy's ear pressed him to his breast. For a few moments the ruling elder was visibly affected. Stern in the per- formance of his duty, he yet was far from having a flinty heart, and when once --the sinner had met his deserts he never bore him any ill-will. "Aye," he said to himself, "I will feed and clothe the orphans and widow, and take as far as I am able the place of poor Jacob. Lord, Thy will be done." Then having made Lydia and the others a sign to kneel, he bowed his head a moment before beginning the prayer. The silence of the room was only broken by the heavy breathing of Mr. Japheth, and the robin hopping about on its perch. Nancy had thrown herself near Mrs. Japheth; on her left was Lydia, while Wadsworth, Adams, Prudence and Charity, formed a semi-circle about the dying   186      ROMANCE OF THE man's feet. At length Mr. Barebones raised his head, and rolling up his eyes so far that you might have thought they were going to turn completely round in the sockets, began to implore the mercy of God on the cobbler. He had hardly opened his lips when Tommy burst into tears, while his little sister, who till nowshad looked on from a corner at the strange scene, approached, and throwing her arms around her brother's neck began also to cry. And thus accompanied by their sobs the ruling el- der went on imploring forgiveness for Mr. Japheth's sins, and so earnest and full of pathos were his words, that Lydia overcame her dislike for him, and felt that he was a better man than she had supposed. But suddenly their devotions were in- terrlpted by Mrs. Japheth, who, lifting up one of her shrivelled arms--rwhch looked very like a bone covered with old parchment-did what nobody had seen her do in seven years, sat up in bed. At once, Lydia sprang to her feet; she believed the woman herself might be in her agony, so strangely con- vulsed were her features; her hollow eyes were fixed on the ruling elder with a gleam of fury; her sunken cheeks, dried like her arm, were for a mo- ment flushed. "Away with you, Israel Barebones," she shriek- -ed. "Away! your prayers are a mockery! You, calling on the Almighty to forgive my poor, dying   I     CHAnRTER OAK.      187   husband his sins! you, whose narrow, persecuting :i spirit drove him from the office of tithing-man, and then persuaded the folks to give him no more work. You, asking God to pardon him! I say begone, and my curse follow you." Here, exhausted by her effort, she sank back on the pillow, while Lydia and Nancy looked at each other perfectly awe stricken; Wadsworth was shocked as he had never been before; the  little boy ceased cry- ing, and as if raised to madness by what he had heard, clenched his fists, and we believe would have rushed on Mr. Barebones had not his sister, whose arms were still about his neck, held him back. Nor was the ruling elder himself less affected than the rest. His self control, however, was so perfect that there was nothing on his countenance to indicate that any thing unusual had happened, and having cast a glance of pity at the woman, he was about to continue his prayer when she again interrupted him. "If you will not begone," she said, " stay, but let another more worthy address the Lord of Hosts."' Then pointing her finger at Nancy Clark: ' Do you pray, do you pray; if the Lord hears any one He will hear you." "Amen!" returned Mr. Barebones. "Let the young woman raise a supplication to the throne of   188      ROMANCE OF THE grace; but she must be quick-the breathing is getting shorter-there is not a moment to lose." Nancy at once hastened to where the cobbler was lying, and throwing herself on her knees, be- gan the following prayer in a voice low and sweet, and which made Wadsworth bury his face in his hands-it awakened such memories! "Almighty God and Heavenly Father, be pleas- ed to be with us at this solemn hour; be with Thy servant, Jacob Japheth, who is so soon to be laid in the consuming grave. Merciful God, be with him in these his last moments to uphold and sup- port him.  Put underneath him thine everlasting arms of mercy. Support him by Thy free, rich grace, and receive his parting spirit, to Thy blissful presence. Be Thou with his dear and mourning wife in her great trials, and support her by Thy Holy Spirit. Mayest thou sanctify his death to his dear children for their spiritual and lasting good; and may his death be sanctified lto his beloved church and people when he is laid in the dust. Unite them  in one heart and one mind to serve the living and true God. May they be united in harmony and peace. Bless the whole Israel of God; and have compassion on the immortal -souls Thou hast made; through the merits of Thv dear Son, our Lord and Saviour, and to Him with the Father and Eternal Spirit be everlasting praises,   CHARTER OAK.       189 amen!"Just as she had finished the prayer there was a scratch at the door; but nobody stirred to open it, until presently 2Miles gave a doleful howl and Adams, with an angry. look, raised the latch to drive the creature away. But the' dog rushed in before Simon could prevent, and trotting up to its master fixed on him a mournful gaze.  "I can be of no further use here," said the Cap tain, in a hurried, agitated tone to the elder. The latter shook his head and whispered,? 'No; we may as well both depart and make preparations for the funeral; I'll bear the whole expense, Mr., Wadsworth, I insist on that. -But come; Mrs. Japheth is like a body possessed ; Nancy Clark can manage her better than any one else; come." Wadsworth hastened with him to the threshold, and was about to pass out when Mr. -Barebones stopped, and began fumbling for something in his pocket. "Here, Miss Clark," he said, beckoning to the young woman, "here are a couple of pine tree shillings which-" lowering his voice to awhisper and putting his mouth to her ear-" you may place on brother Jacob's eyes, after his soul has departed, they'll keep the lids from bobbin' up." With this he slipped the coins into her hand and left the house, like his companion too absorbed in gloomy thought to enter into conversation.   190      ROMANCE OF THE ' Justly punished," said Wadsworth to himself, "justly punished. Yes, I deserve to have even a brute remind me of it; oh, I wish Miles were dead! they call- him my shadow.' Alas! too true, this gift of Nancy Clark follows me everywhere; if 'twern't for Miles I might forget her." Then sud- denly raising his voice and in a tone of agony, "No, no," he cried, "I am doomed never to forget her. Her memory will haunt me in this world anal the next. Too late! I am tempted beyond umy strength. Oh, Mr. Barebones, pity the most wretched of men," "I will pray for you," said the other. "We are all burthened with sin. I, too, carry a heavy load, but God's mercy is great. I will pray. I ask not what it is weighs so heavily upon your conscience. Always have hope; it is never too late." Here his consoling remarks were interrupted by some of the townfolks coming up and-asking after Jacob Japheth, so that Wadsworth was left to saunter along the road by himself-a prey to the gloomiest thoughts, and for the first time in his life doubting whether God always heard the cry of a suffering soul.   CHARER OAK.       191 CHAPTER XXXVI. THERE is another grave near the old meet- ing-house, and carved in rude letters on the brown slab is the name of Jacob Japheth, with the follow- ing epitaph : "As you are so was I God did call and I did die Translated tenth day of June Year of Grace 1687 aged 51. Nancy who often comes to lay wild flowers on her mother's tomb, now always brings a few for the departed cobbler. The people of Hartford have quite changed their opinion of the young woman. They no longer consider her as given over to Beelzebub, for now she goes regularly to meeting on Sabbata and lecture days; and the dullest of them have guessed that it was her father who. had kept her so long from the practice of re- ligion-since the change in her ways dated from the time when he had turned her from home. Lydia, however, still continues to absent herself, on these occasions, and not a few regret to see Nancy so intimate with her. "Why be seen in the company of a sabbath- brealker?" was a question often asked by dame Philbrick, who likewise thought it exceeding strange that Nancy should continue to dwell with Mrs. Bull, who since her ducking had never gone to   192.     ROMANCE OF THE church, albeit her tongue had not given any further scandal. But especially to Sir. Barebones were Lydia and the widow sources of uneasiness; the new tithing-man had over and over again com- plained of them both, yet, so far, neither had been punished for their sinful conduct. What could it mean?" One hot July evening, Adams and Wadsworth were sauntering along the edge of the green, con- versing about the regicide's daughter.     ? "Yes," said the  tavern-keeper, "the feeling against the girl is very strong, and vet"-here he laughed, "nobody,proposes to punish her for sab- bath-breaking. I half believe they're afraid of her, she does give them  such haughty answers, Depend upon it, Captain, it's more her defiant looks than the fact of her being your guest which makes 'em keep hands off. As for the termagant widow Bull, why she backs up Miss Lydia, and Miss Lydia backs her up, and so between 'em they've defied -the law; ha, ha!" "And I  suppose," returned Wadsworth, musing- Iy, "I suppose I'm blamed for harboring Miss Goffe."  "To tell the truth, sir, you are." "Well, if they only knew how hard I've tried to make her own the covenant they'd cease blaming me, Adams. She's a  perfect rock to move. They   CHARTER OAK. 1-3 might burn her at the stake, yet I verily believe such an awful death would not break her stubbor- ness." "If we ever get those iron cages which our rul- ing elder is so anxious we should," pursued Adams, ( then will come the crisis ; for Mr. Barebones will din it into the people's ears that they must make some practical use of them; and public opinion might be so worked up that Miss Lydia and the widow would either go to meeting or be put in a cage. Ha! 'twill have to be a big one to hold Mrs. Bull!" Wadsworth at the mention of cages clenched his fists and mutteredI something which the ruling elder, had he been present,/would not have consid- ered very complimentary. "And yet,'  he said to himself, "I once reproved the girl because she op- posed the use of stocks and whipping-posts. Now here am I waxing wroth at the bare idea of her be- ing some day par. in a cage at the church door. Oh, what a tyrant has my passion become! how it crushes out every other sentiment! Ha! I dare them to treat her like a wild beast!" As he thus soliloquized his eyes flashed, while his companion smiled, for the latter well knew what was passing through the mind of his chief. "Aye," exclaimed Adams, " she's as bewitching   194      ROMANCE OF THE as she's deep and mysterious; although you've not conquered her, she's conquered you." At these words Wadsworth turned on the publi- can with a fierce look, but Simon paid no heed to "And she's disappointed me," he continued. "There was a time when I considered her already as good as your wife. Through all the years I visited her at her father's cabin, I used to say to myself, "she's to be Captain Joe's bride. But now I'm baffled as much as yourself, and I can't conceal my feelings." "Well, try, Adams, and not let her hate you. Should the train-band ever recover their old spirit, Lydia may do good service to the cause which lies so near my heart. I  am certain, whatever others may think, that she is firm in her devotion to her native land." "Well, I shall endeavor to share your good opinion of Miss Lydia. Perhaps the officer I saw her conversing with some  months ago is only, as you persist in believing, a tool whom she is making use of for a good end. Verily, 'twould be most un- natural for the girl to be other than patriotic. If for no other reason than the love she bears her fa- ther, she ought to be true to our side." Wadsworth nodded but made no further response to his friend, who went on indulging in more praise   CHARTER OAK.       195 of Lydia than he had in a long time. And among other things, he lauded her for the kindness she had shown the widow Japheth, whom she visited every day, rain or shine, carrying, besides her own stock of gifts, those which the ruling elder would send-the aversion of the bed-ridden woman for him being so strong that the goodman was not al- lowed to enter the cottage. "Sometimes," pursued Adams, " -Mrs. Japheth will not eat herself nor allow, her children to eat the cookies Miss Lydia carries to her, for she sus- pects that they may be gifts from Israel Barebones, whom she hates with a devil's hate." A"I regret," said Wadsworth, " that she enter- tains such feelings towards our ruling elder; I have myself no great cause for loving one whose peace policy has blasted my hopes of independence. Nevertheless I must do him justice; he has a kindly heart. 'Twas he who paid all the expenses of the cobbler's funeral; not a penny would he let me contribute towards it. He likewise put up the gravestone." "Well, it's not he lays those beautiful flowers on Jacob's tomb," said Adams, pointing at the little cemetery across the green. Wadsworth fol- lowed the direction of his finger, and- discovered Nancr in the act of placing a wreath on the slab which covered the remains of Mr. Japheth-while   196      ROMANCE OF TEE near by stood Lydia, holding more flowers in her apron. "Tell me, Captain," pursued Adams, "what did Dr. Mather think of Miss Lvdia? I know he saw but little of her when he was here, yet he must have been struck by her beauty? Say, Cap- tain, didn't he urge you to take her for your wife? I can't believe such a shrewd observer of imen went away without advising you to marry her. In all Connecticut there's not her equal. See, there she is strewing roses on Mrs. Clark's grave. Oh, why are you so vacillating? Can such a brave man fear to ask a woman for her hand? Here now is as good a chance as any. Come-advance, and while I draw Miss Clark aside, do you lay bare your heart to Lydia Goffe." When the tavern- keeper had begun to speak of the regicide's daugh- ter, Wadsworth had dropped his eyes on the ground. Oh, if his friend could have known what the great divine had lreally told him--could he have seen the letter which the minister had written, warning the Captain to marry Nancy or incur the wrath of a just God, he would not have wondered, as he did, at Wadsworth's troubled look. "Captain, Captain, what is the matter? Have I offended?" he exclaimed, seeing his chief abrupt- ly turn and walk away. But the latter, deaf to the appeals of the faithful scout, continued at a rapid '\   CHARTER OAK.       197 pace along the road, leaving his friend to shrug his shoulders and marvel at such behavior. "Humph!" said Adams, " they call me mad : it's Captain Joe that's mad, not I. If this pretty bird escapes him and marries somebody else, I for one shall say, ' served him right'." Then advancing across the green he began to praise the young women for taking such care of the restihg-places of the dead, and added that Wadsworth had been much pleased to find them thus employed. "Is that he  going off yonder?" exclaimed Lydia. "How fast he walks!" "Yes, 'tis Mad Wadsworth, as he should be called." "Then I must make haste and overtake him," she continued, turning to her friend-" you know why. It's been impossible to lay eyes on him till now." "Mad Wadsworth was off spearing salmon, Miiss; but the recreation seems to have done- him little good," remarked the tavern-keeper. "Ten min- utes hence he'll be buried among his papers, or worrying about--ha, ha,-about his boots-what a strange man he is!" "Mr. Wadsworth," said Nancy, " ought not to study immediately after recovering from a severe illness. But pray, Mr. Adams (for with the rest of the townfolks she now gave him the title of Mr.)   198      ROMANCE OF THE pray what was that you said about the Captain's boots?" "Humph!" ejaculated Simon, "perhaps I ought not to tell. However, there can't be much harm. Well, you must know that twice this week he has found them covered with mud, when he went to put them on in the morning; and yet he had cleaned them thoroughly the evening before. Now, I myself have always believed there was something queer about the Captain's house, and have never fancied sleeping there. It worried me a great deal when he found that map on his table some years ago. And here comes this new mystery. Why, if his aunt heard about it, she'd say a witch had used his boots." "It may be the work of the Evil One," murmured Nancy. "Satan hath good reason for distracting Joseph Wadsworth, whose whole career is bound up with a, covenant between himself and the Lord." Here the speaker clasped her hands and turning "her eyes towards the heavens, exclaimed, "Oh, Wadsworth, stand firm and conquer!" "Mad Nancy!" thought Adams, shrugging his shoulders, for he did not understand what she meant, "you and the Captain are both losing your wits. Aye, Mad Nancy!" Leaving the tavern-keeper gazing at her with an   CHARTER OAK.       199 expression of pity on his bountenance, let us follow Lydia, who in her eagerness to overtake the chief of the train-band, has now quickened her steps into a run. Wadsworth heard. her coming, and -for a moment resisted the temptation which impelled him to stop and welcome her. "Oh, why," he groaned, " did Increase Mather condemn my vow? That might have saved me. But now I am my own slave; my prayers have not been heard." With this he turned towards the girl, who was within a few paces of him, and who never had looked so beautiful as on this summer evening. Her cheeks, which during his illness had lost their color, were blooming again like roses, while her golden hair--scarcely long enough to reach her shoulders, and freed from the hood which she pre- ferred to carry in her hand-was blown about in a most bewitching way by the breeze. "Mr. Wadsworth," she exclaimed, "I have been seeking all over town for you. I have great news., "Indeed!" said her host. "Then as we walk along together you can tell it to me." "It is about Andros coming to seize our charter, sir." "Oh! that is something I must- listen to with attention. Go on, repeat all you have heard-the smallest particulars. But first tell how you came   200      ROMANCE OF THE by the news. I rely on Adams to keep me posted; yet he has not spoken a word about this, except of course in a general way, that Sir Edmund was likely to make an attempt some day or other to seize the instrument." "Well, my information comes from a source I can implicitly trust, and the messenger who brought it is Christian, the Pequot lad, who I think was so unjustly ordered to leave the settlement a few months ago. It does not, however, mention aught about the charter. The message simply warns me to protect my father against Sir Edmund, who will visit Hartford towards the last of October. But, as the governor knows nothing about the old gentle. man being concealed here, his journey can have no other object than to get possession of the Charter." "Humph!" ejaculated Wadsworth, "'then your informant was only interested  in the safety of Colonel Goffe?  He had scruples, perhaps, about revealing his master's plans for taking away what little is left of our liberties." "No doubt you are right," pursued the girl; "he is trying to fill a difficult position with honor. I  thank him for his warning, and no harm if we 1e profit by it in other respects." "Save  the charter!" exclaimed Wadsworth, mournfully. "Ah, Miss Lydia! the spirit  iwhich l   CHARTER OAKO.      201 animates you does not animate everybody. I am full of grief at the change which has come over my train-band, and what I hear from other settlements tells the same story. My unfortunate illness gave those who opposed my scheme for a revolution an opportunity to influence the people in a way they never would have done, had I been able to go about and keep the fire of their souls burning. Alas! I fear Andros will have an easy march across the colony." Here he paused a moment, then raising his voice--"Alas, alas,- it all comes from the advice given me by a great and holy man. Diffi- cult was the road I was travelling, yet I would have reached the goal had I not broken the spirit of a vow, a solemn, solemn vow. But it is too late-I cannot go back!" "Mr. Wadsworth, what do you rmean-?" said Lydia, believing, as she had many times before, that the brain of her hoot was: off its balance. "Nothing, oh nothing!" he replied, burying his face in his hands; then suddenly looking up and with a wild expression-(- daughter of the regicide 1" he exclaimed, " to you henceforward will I go for cheering words ; I will rest my strength upon your strength; my soul in you shall find comfort and courage. Tell me, Lydia Goffe, what must I do to save the charter? I would know what steps to   - 202      ROMANCE OF THE take if the people, had remained true to me; Ibt they will not fight? Tell me what can I do?" The girl made no response-she was thinking deeply over the state of affairs, and perhaps wtas a little startled by the warmth of his appeal. "Where is the Indian who brought the message? I would like to question him," pursued Wadsworth, after waiting a moment for her answer. "( He has already gone back to Boston, sir. He came last night to Mrs. Bull's cabin, delivered the note which contained the information I have given you, then hurried away, without even waiting to take an hour's sleep." "Well, he was wise," said Wadsworth; " had he tarried till morning he might have been seized and punished; for despite your faith in him you must confess that his visit to Nathaniel Clark's some months ago, was enough to have excited the suspi- cions of Mad Adams and others, who believe there is truth in the report that Andros is tampering with the heathen." "Poor Christian!" sighed Lydia. "Blame me, sir, not him.  'Twas my fault if he went to Mr. Clark's-I asked him to go." Wadsworth, who had already guessed that such was the case, and that the object of the Pequot's visit had been to warn Henry Synnot against Mad   CHARTER OAR.       203 Adams, would fain have pressed the subject and tried to smake her reveal how she and the British officer had come to be so intimate, and what proof she had that Andros had not heard of the regicide's discovery. But he reme mbered that she was a person who kept her own counsels, and that nothing le might say would be likely to throw  her off her guard. Had he known what his aunt knew (and we must give Miss Crabtree credit for having kept this secret, if she had never kept any other,) that Henry Synnot had once pressed his lips to Lydia's hand; had he known how that kiss had planted in her heart the seed of a love which had grown with the months, and now burned with an intensity almost as great as the love which he himself bore for her--oh, had Wadsworth known this, despair would not have delayed throwing over his soul her dark veil. CHAPTER    XXXVII. THS evening found Lydia in Mrs. Bull's cabin at a later hour than usual. The widow   was seated in a rude arm chair-her fingers playing with the old tarred rope, lying on her lap, and which she cherished more than ever since the loss   ' 204    - ROMANCE OF THE of her Shakespeare; she seemed to pay no atten- tion to the conversation going on between Nancy and Lydia-her thoughts were all in the past-and she was wishing that she could live over again the day the Polly Ann had been launched. "How we cheered when she glided into the water! and what jolly toasts we drank!" said the dame to herself. "Neither the rum nor the wine is as good now as it was in those days-alas!"Here she gave a sigh, then went on trying to picture to herself the tempest which had sent the staunch vessel to the bottom. "It must have blowed great guns!" she said, " great guns.! Don't believe there was a spar left when she took the last plunge. But the old man was at the helm-yes, I vow he was-just as I once saw him in a dream." Here she pressed the rope to her lips and gave another sigh. Leaving her thus solilo- quizing, we will turn our attention to the young women. "Well," said Lydia, after a rather lengthy pause, "I cannot see that we are able to do any thing. If the people will not fight, the charter must be lost. Wadsworth, Adams, myself and-and you, might be ready enough to defend it; but we are only four." "You forget Mrs. Bull," said Nancy, glancing with a smile at the widow. "Oh, yes, that makes five; yet what could such   CHARTER OAK.       205 a small number do against dear knows how many red coats, who, when they arrived here-would not find themselves without ardent sympathisers." Her friend blushed, for'she knew that, Lydia al- luded to her father, who of late had come out more boldly than ever in favor of Andros. "Well, we might steal the charter," said Nancy, after another pause, " and hide it away." "Ha!" exclaimed Lydia, laughing, "ha, ha! steal it indeed-easier said than done." '"Well, my faith has not, all departed," rejloined Nancy. "The skies look dark, I know, very, very dark, and if it depended only on the arms of frail mortals, then I might indeed cease to have any hope. But the Lord will not abandon our cause; no, not while Wadsworth stands firm and conquers himself." "(I find your words as mysterious as the Cap- tain's words at times," said Lydia, " conquer him- self! Poor fellow. As if he had not already racked his brains and made a skeleton of his body trying to save Connecticut." Not unwilling to lead her friend's thoughts away from the allusion which she had made to Wads- worth's vow, Nancy now went on to explain how the charter might be stolen. "It will, no doubt," she said, " be brought and placed before Sir Ed- mund, in thie General Court Chamber, and then   206      ROMANCE OF THE surrendered with some kind of ceremony. Now, might not a bold, quick hand, at that instant, snatch it away?" Lydia gazed earnestly at Nancy for more than a minute-then rising to her feet and striking her hand upon the table, "You have had a sign from God," she exclaimed, 'yes, yes; I laughed at first; I see it now-your inspiration will save the charter -Andros will not get possession of it. Oh, Nancy, the Lord is indeed in league with you." "As in the days of old He helped His chosen people, so now He will help us. We are the new Israel," returned the young woman. "But my plan of saving the instrument will require courage; we must do our part, or the Almighty will not do His." "Oh, leave it to me, leave it to me!" exclaimed Lydia, in an animated tone; "I shall arrange it all. I only hope the roll of parchment may be pro- duced at night. But whether by sunlight or by lamp light, the sign which the Lord has given you shall be obeyed. The charter is safe." When they had conversed together a little while longer the nine o'clock bell rang, and Lydia an- nounced that it was time for her to go home. Ac- cordingly, after having spoken a few cheery words to the widow-telling her not to be all the time   CHARTER OAK.       207 sighing over a piece of rope-and given Nancy an embrace, she left the cottage. In a few minutes Mrs. Bull's candle was extin- guished, and the goodwoman-whose last waking thoughts were of the Polly Ann-was falling asleep. Presently, in her dreams, she saw Cape Cod, and the great billows. and on the top of the highest wave of all her husband's craft, shaking the spray from her bow ere she took the final dive into the sea-which was to be her sepulchre. Nancy did not follow her host's example. It was now too dark, but when the moon rose, which would be in about an hour, it was her intention to wander out and sit awhile under the oak on Wyllys' hill. The whippoorwills, she knew, would be utter- ing their mournful notes on that hallowed spot, and the landscape, under the full moon, would present a scene of melancholy beauty which would accord well with her feelings. But not for the whippoor- wills nor weird scenery would she have thought of leaving the house to-night-an unaccountable im- pulse prompted her toivisit the ground where she had passed so many happy moments with Joseph Wadsworth. "Yes, I must go," she said, after having remained by the window during what seemed two hours instead of ohe, and seeing the moon at length rising across the river-"I must go." So, wrapping her cloak about her-for, although mid-   208      ROMANCE OF THE summer, there was a heavy dew-Nancy softly raised the latch and passed out. She was not long reaching Wyllys' hill, where, having seated herself under the spreading branches of the oak, she began playfully to count the fire-flies which were darting around her in myriads, until, bewildered by their number, she turned her eyes towards the Connecticut, whose waters, silvered by the moonbeams, looked like a stream of fairy-land. No challenge came from the watch-tower, although it was only a short distance away-the sentinels were asleep. On one of the lower limbs of the tree- a whippoorwill was uttering its plaintive call, and as Nancy listened to the bird, what memories were awakened in her breast! "Here is the spot," she sighed, clasping her hands; "yes, here is the spot, and it was a night like this. It seems only yesterday. Oh, what-have I not suffered in trying to smother my love for him! But he gave it life, and it will not die. Even now I feel his arm around my waist; I still can feel his lips pressing my cheek-sweet embrace! No, no, I could not help adoring him, unless God were to annihilate me. Yet he never shall know it. He gave me up as a hostage for the success of his glo- rious undertaking. I cannot believe that he is wavering; it is only gossip. No, no, Wadsworth will keep his vow--and I, will suffer on with pa- tience and resignation to the end. So in another   GCARTER OAK.       209 life may I share his glory and love him there as I could not love him here." Presently the tears came, and for a few minutes she wept bitterly. Only once before had Nancy thus given way to her feelings, and now as she cried she kept repeating to herself, "Here is the spot--'twas a night like this." She thought of the gossip of the town, which whispered every where: "The Captain loves Miss Lydia; he loves her--he loves her." At length, drying her tears: "' Why do I weep?" she exclaimed. "He cannot break the covenant; no, he cannot. How mysterious are the ways of the Lord! My dearest friend is his great- est temptation. Yet Lydia, I am sure, loves another. Ah, yes, she would follow Henry Synnot to the ends of the earth if he were not serving King James. Happy Providence, which threw him in her way! But for their meeting in the forest, the regi- cide's daughter might have found in Wadsworth her ideal, as I myself did. No, I shall not cry any more ; I will trust in God and pray. I need strength to keep resigned; and Wadsworth has need of all the help which prayer can give to remain true to the promise he made the Almighty." While she, was thus soliloquizing, she was startled by the sound of footsteps, and rose from her seat, not a little alarmed. Who could it be? How her heart throbbed when presently she   210      ROMANCE OF THE discovered, but a few paces off, one whom she knew well-a dog following at his heels! She had no- ticed how latterly Wadsworth had avoided her; would he turn aside now? On he came, the full moon casting its pale light on his haggard face- giving it an unearthly hue, which made her shud- der. His eyes, which were wide open, stared straight in front of him; yet he walked like one blind, with slow, uncertain step, and was going past when Miles, with a loud bark, sprang towards her and almost threw her down in his joyful gambols. An exclamation of horror followed, and Wadsworth lay stretched at her feet, his face towards the ground. Agitated beyond expression, and almost ready to faint, she summoned nerve enough to grasp his arm, then begged him to tell what was the matter. But for awhile he appeared deaf to all she said, and only answered with piteous moans. At length, gazing up at her, "Where am I?" he exclaimed, "and who are you?" "I am Nancy Clark, and this is Wyllys' hill," she replied, in as firm a voice as she could com- mand. "How came I here?" he continued. "Is my brain really turned? Adams calls me mad." While he was speaking she had made him take her hand, and was endeavoring to assist him to his feet. But he would not rise further than his knees.   CHARTER OAK.      2" "Oh, blessed being," he said, "I know your soft and gentle touch. You are Nancy Clark. Have you come from heaven to rescue me?" Frightened by his wild expression, she answered with trembling accents, "I stand before you, sir, in flesh and blood, and this is your favorite oak-tree on Wyllys' hill. Oh, tell me what is the matter? Shall I call the watch?" He shook his head; then pressing one of his hands to his brow, seemed to be trying to collect his senses. "Nancy," at length he sighed, "I be- lieve that for years past the Evil One has been prac- ticing on me a great deceit. Yes, prompted by him, I once took a rash vow, and through me the devil has likewise deceived you. But the Lord has guid- ed me here to-night in order that I might meet you, )nd at your feet renew my first profession of love." Wadsworth, Wadsworth, speak not thus," ex- claimed the young woman. "It is blasphemy to attribute your vow to Satan. No, no, 'twas the Almighty who inspired you. I know Beelzebub goeth about seeking whom he may devour; he longs to possess your great and daring soul; he is striving to grasp you from God; Oh, pray, pray.! You must not be among the lost." Here she turn- ed her eyes towards the stars, and with a tear roll- ing down her cheek, murmured, "it may be a sin-   212      ROMANCE OF THE' ful tiling to say, blut heaven would not be heaven for me if he -were not there." "Nancy," pursued the sleep-walker, still holding fast to her hand and pressing it- convulsively- "Nancy, I have prayed, I have cried for light. But never until this moment has the darkness been so cleared from my vision, and the path of duty so plain. Oh, do not refuse me the bliss which will come when I hear you say, ' Wadsworth, your vow was a vow you need not keep ; I will be once more your betrothed.' Oh, Nancy, speak; tell me those few words. If you are silent I fall back and am again the slave of a wild passion." "Wadsworth," returned the young woman, after a solemn pause, " if prayers can save you, you will be among the blest. I know how you are tempted. Think not that I grieve because you once made me love you. Oh, you did-and I love you at this moment, and to the last hour I shall love no other man. But I gave you up of my own free will. No, no, I regret not the past. The passion, however, with which-at least according to common report- my friend Lydia has inspired you, may bring bitter fruit. : Oh, Wadsworth, there is misery in store for you, unless you beware. During the years you re- mained true to the spirit of your vow, the Almighty prospered your scheme of independence; -the people were full of courage, and the train-bands of many   CHARTER OAK.       213 towns besides Hartford declared their willingness to follow you. But has not a change for the worse come over Connecticut during the past few months? True, you have been part of the time ill, and not able to fire their hearts. But even before your fever were there not signs of evil omen? Oh, Wadsworth, all is clear to me now--you had lost faith in your covenant with the Almighty, and His hand was withdrawn from your cause. But enough; I shall say no more; only remember that the Lord of Hosts cannot be trifled with-unless you wish a miserable future, stand firm to the promise you made Him. It is not yet too late; we still hold our charter, and the people may yet be encouraged to fight for independence." Here she again begged him to rise, but he shook his head, and impatiently waved her away. Nancy felt tempted to remain, for he appeared stupefied, and she thought it might not be right to leave him in- such a condition. But when presently he spoke and bade her go, she knew by the tone of his voice that she must obey; so with an anxious heart she said good-bye, and slowly retraced her steps towards the widow's cottage--turning every few minutes to see if he was still on his knees. At length she distinguished his figure moving in the, di- rection of the -main road, and after watching and satisfying herself that he was going towards home,   214      ROMNOE OF THE she gave a sigh of relief, and quickening her pace, was soon in the log cabin again. CHAPTER   XXXVIII. THE summer has gone by, and the people of Hartford are all rejoicing at the prospect of a boun- tiful harvest, save Wadsworth. The school land which Andros had given to Nathaniel Clark as a reward for his faithful services is covered with a crop of corn, the full golden ears of which bear tes- timony to the richness of the soil; and while a few of the inhabitants declare it strange that Provi- dence should thus smile on Nancy's father, the ma- jority, who seem to have lost every trace of their former spirit, do not express any opinion about the wrong Sir Edmund committed in depriving the town of these fertile acres, nor wonder at the Lord making them yield such a harvest. But Wads- worth's land presents a sad appearance-in woful contrast to all the other farms. The weeds have choked the corn and stopped its growth, while his rye was cut so late that half the grain dropped out under the sickle. In vain had Adams begged him to arouse from his melancholy, and not lose all heart. Wadswoith   CaARTER OAK.       215 would only shake his head and turn his back on the faithful scout. He seemed to be anxiously counting the days as they went by; and now that August and September lhad passed, his restless- ness increased. He was only calm when Lydia was at his side; then indeed a change would come over him, and his countenance brighten. "The people have abandoned me," he would say to the girl; " on you now I rely; the charter will be saved through you." Once he went so far as to address her, in a more familiar strain, and uttered words which she thought it wrong to approve of, unless she meant to allure him with false hope-a thing we know she was far from wishing to do. On that occasion she turned from him with such an offended look that his heart sank. "If she loves me," he murmured, "never did woman more adroitly conceal it." Nevertheless, he hoped on, and during the past few weeks had several times been on the point of offering himself, yet something had always stopped him. "I have put it off very long," he would say to himself, " and Adams laughs. He thinks I carry the duties of a host too far, and that because she is under my roof is no reason for not pushing my ad- dresses with greater boldness. Alas, he does not know the truth!" No, the tavern-keeper knew   2l6       OMANOCE OF THE nothing of the strane meeting between his chief and Nancy Clark on Wyllys' hill. The solemnu words which the young woman had spoken that night would often ring in Wadsworth's ear, and it was these words which caused him still to hesitate, and half believe that Increase Mather might have been wrong when he had declared that his vow of celibacy had been inspired by the Evil One. Yet it always happened that whenever the Cap- tain of the train-band felt himnself yielding to this belief, Lydia would appear before him, shaking her golden curls--which were now quite long again -as if to woo him on; and then he would groan, and call on the Almighty to throw light upon his path. "What must I do? oh Lord, what must I do? Did the holy man speak wisely and with Thy sanction? Am I yet -bound by my vow? If not, then strength, strength, oh God! or I cannot return to my first love. Throw light, too, in the soul of Nancy Clark, who is firm in the belief that I must keep the covenant." As for Charity Crabtree, she was as much be- fogged as ever about Lydia; so too was Adams; so too was Goody Garlic, who once had taken the girl aside and implored her to tell whether she and the British officer were betrothed. "I hope, child,"' said the old nurse, " no harm will come from that kiss he once gave you. Tell   CHARTER OAK.      217 me, dear, why you hold aloof from Mr. Wadsworth? I linow that you esteem him. But have you no stronger feeling for your father's friend and pro- tector? Where is your gratitude? Six months under his roof, and still only a guest Oh, Lydia, Lydia.!" But strong as was her affection for Prudence, on the subject of Henry Synnot the girl never would open her heart. Colonel Goffe, however, (from whom she kept only one secretithe coming of An- dros), knew all about the matter, and we can imagine the anxiety with which the veteran would ask, "what news from SyTnnot? what news from Syn- not?" How Sir Edmund was to be kept from discover- ing the regicide will be developed in the next chapter. We will here merely say that the Pe- quot had paid another visit to the widow Bull's cabin one night towards the last of September, and there unfolded to Lydia a plan concocted by Synnot and which there was good reason to believe would prevent Mr. Clark from communicating with His Excellency when the latter should arrive. October was now drawing to a close. The black- birds were gathered in flocks, and so were the rob- ins-making ready to depart for a warmer clime. No more frogs were heard croaking, the whippoor- wills had gone from Wyllys' hill; and in the morn-   218      ROMANCE OF THE ing there was -a frosty feeling about the air, which made even Israel Barebones wear a less solemn look, and quicken his step as he went his rounds, inquiring into the spiritual condition of the people. This, let us inform the reader, he found quito satis- factory, with two exceptions, namely: Lydia and Mrs. Bull, both of whom still refused to go to meet- ing, although the new tithing-man had often re- ported them to the ruling-elder, whose conscience was very ill at ease, and who had intrusted Mr. Adams with a commission to procure a couple of iron cages in which to place the sabbath-breakers. But the cages, for some reason or other, had not yet made their appearance; the tavern-keeper hav- ing always some plausible excuse ready for not having procured them. One chilly evening the ruling elder might have been seen resting on a log just outside the widow Japheth's cottage, his face buried in his hands, and evidently in deep meditation; while his knees were shaking, and his teeth chattered as though he was afflicted with ague. "If I  wronged him in any way," he murmured, "Oh  Lord, forgive me! Poor Jacob! poor Ja- cob!" Near by stood a wagon-load of corn, which a redemptioner was busy emptying into a crib, built   CHARTER OAK. I      219 at the ruling elder's expense; and this load of corn was only one of many gifts he had made the widow Japheth, never telling her of them, however, for Lydia had warned him that the bed-ridden woman would not accept of his charity. While Mr. Barebones was thus seated on the log, thinking of his departed friend the cobbler, Wads- worth approached, and having wished him good evening, inquired after the widow Japheth, adding that it was very good of him to be sending her so mubch grain. "I am only performing a Christian duty," re- turned M3r. Barebones, waving his hand; " but for the poor who dwell amongst us, we that have plenty of worldly store would have our hearts turn to flint. A miserly spirit can only be discovered when poverty calls on us for a mite." Then after a pause: "I am much concerned," he went on, " about that young woman who is your guest, and who is now inside with Mrs. Japheth. Charitable she certainly appears, and the widow likes her, and so did poor Jacob; but she's a wayward creature, has baffled all your attempts to make her own the covenant, yet talks of her host in such warm strains that I cannot but believe there is something more 'twixt her and you than mere respect and esteem-eh:? Tell mYe, now, are ye not betrothed?" At this question Wadsworth's brow contracted,   220      ROMANCE OF THE and he was on the point of giving a rude answer when the ruling elder continued : " and what a bold thing she is; why, as she passed me a while ago, I ventured to address her a few words on religion, but instead of listening as a sinner ought, she up- braided me for troubling myself about other folks. Oh, Captain, I am glad that no one but yonder re- demptioner and Mrs. Bull heard the clatter of her tongue, or I should have been obliged, in order to prevent scandal, to have had her ducked." "Well, I have done my best," said Wadsworth, whose feelings towards the ruling elder were some- what modified by the knowledge that he was only speaking truth about Lydia, whose conduct had certainly given an infinite amount of scandal. "But it has been all in vain; and yet I verily be- lieve she is a godly young woman." Here, Mr. Barebones looked up with a faint smile on his lips. "Aye, sir," he continued, "love throws dust in the sharpest eyes. She has blinded you; beware lest you become not yourself lukewarm in matters of religion." Wadsworth could stand no more such language; and turning away he entered the widow Japheth's abode, half inclined to share Lydia's opinion of the shivering old man on the log, who seemed to take a pleasure in worrying himself about other people's souls.   CHARTER OAK.      221 The room in which Wadsworth presently found himself was much changed since he had last entered it-on the occasion of Mr. Japheth's death. The walls had been newly white-washed, and repaired in several places where the plaster had dropped out; Tommy and his sister were rejoicing in new clothes ; the glass in the windows was much cleaner than formerly; while a new lamp, which Lydia was in the act of lighting, stood upon a table fresh from the carpenter's hand-and for all these improve- ments the ruling elder was chiefly to be thanked, although Nancy and her friend had done something towards them. But what struck Wadsworth more than anything else was the appearance of the bed-ridden woman, who really seemed to have grown fatter since June. As he drew near the cot, Mrs. Bull and Lydia appeared embarrassed, and the girl bit her lip. "Oh, didn't I tell you it was Captain Joe shovel- ling the corn into my new crib?" said the invalid. "Ah, Mr. Wadsworth"-here she grasped his hand -"may the Almighty reward you for all you have done for me!" The Captain was about to undeceive her, and render justice to whom justice was due, when Lydia pulled his sleeve and gave him an imploring look. The girl dreaded the effect on the bed-ridden woman, should the latter discover what Mr. Bare-   222      ROMANCE OF THE bones was at that very moment doing for her; be. sides the mortification of being caught in an un- truth, for she had denied that it was the ruling elder who had brought the grain, while at the same time she had assured the invalid that it had not been sent by Wadsworth. "May the Almighty bless you a thousand times," repeated Mrs. Japheth, fixing her hollow eyes upon the Captain -" you have done so much for me." Wadsworth, who had understood the girl's glance, said nothing; but when Mrs. Japheth had released his hand he grasped Lydia's, and pressed it warmly. Never but once before had he Iventured to take such a liberty, and then she had drawn her hand away and shown not a little displeasure. But now, for some reason or other, the regicide's daughter allowed him to hold it without any sign of reproof; and yet she was far from intending to give him false hope. Oh, what bliss filled his heart during the next few minutes! How the fire flashed from beneath his heavy eyebrows! Mrs. Bull thought a great many things, and looked wonderingly at the girl, while Mrs. Japheth made up her mind that al- though it might be wrong for him to forget Nancy Clark, yet that he had chosen an excellent help- mate. At length, the sea captain's widow slowly a rose from her chair, and after -having kissed the i r:,. valid, told her it was time to be going home. "I   CHAXJTER OAK.      223 left' Miss Nancy," she said, " to look after the fire and prepare supper, and now I must be going." The poor woman begged her to stay a while. "These evenings are so lonely," she sighed-'" oh, so lonely!"But Mrs. Bull shook her head and promising soon to repeat her visit, moved towards the door. Lydia also bade Mrs. Japheth good evening, and at the same time made a faint attempt to free her hand from Wadsworth. But the latter held it in his firm grasp, and scarcely nodding to the sick woman, accompanied the girl and Mrs. Bull out of the house. "Now or never!" he said to himself. "I must--I will--I can no longer be tortured by uncertainity." The dame requested Lydia not to walk so fast, and begged the support of her arm; but Wads- worth hurried her along the road, his countenance burning with intensest passion; while the ruling elder, as they went by, smiled, and asked of God to give them a blessing, They had got perhaps fifty paces from the widow, when the Captain stopped, and was about to speak and tell the regi- cide's daughter how much he loved her, when Nancy Clark came running up. "Lydia, Lydia!" she cried, "Christian has ar- rived'; you must hasten at once to the house." "Oh, he brings news from Boston!" exclaimed Lydia, "I must leave you, Mr. Wadsworth ; but if   224      ROMANCE OF THE there is anything of importance, I will return with out delay. :Remember this is the 25th of October, and Andros may soon be here." "Yes, yes," muttered her host, a dark look clouding his face; "it always happens so; always some excuse; whenever I want you to stay, you leave me." "But I must go, sir--I must," continued Lydia, freeing herself from his grasp, and hastening to join her friend; " but I will be back in a little while." As she left his side, Wadsworth ground his teeth. "'Tis not the first time," he murmured, "Nancy Clark has baffled me. She is sure to appear at tilhe wrong moment." Presently the angry look passed away, and he groaned and   struck his hand upon his breast. "What a mystery, what a mystery!" he said. "I seem -as if between two spirits who are ever con- tending for the mastery over me. Was Increase Mather right, when he let loose the floodgates of my passion by telling me I need not keep my vow? Oh, Nanoy Clark, Nancy Clark l' ' Thus agitated and  wondering at himself, he turned his steps towards the north end of the town and sauntered slowly homneward; while Lydia, in her anxiety to meet Christian, did not wait for the widow Bull to overtake her, nor even once look round to see what had become of her host.   CHARTER OAK.       225 "I will be glad when these exciting times are over,' she said to Nancy ; c" for I really think they will drive COaptain Joe distracted. His manner of late has become stranger than ever; I almost wish I did hot live under his roof. The very sight of himn often makes me shudder, for it recalls a singu- lar incident which happened in my bedroom a few monthls ago; I believe I never told you of it?" "No ; what was it?" "Well, you must know, one night I awoke and found him sitting in a chair at the foot of my bed, at work on his map of North America. He seemed not to notice me, and yet his eyes were once turned full upon me; but it was a dead man's stare, and it took all .my courage not to scream. At length he left the room almost as softly as a ghost might have done. He is a great man; but he needs our prayers. .I sometimes believe he is possessed. Those dark, cavernous eyes of his are like no other eyes I have ever seen." Nancy listened attentively, but said nothing, about her own experience one night on Wyllys' hill. She had often- thought, however, of her strange meeting with Wadsworth under the ancient oak, and sice then had prayed for him more fervently than ever. Presently they reached the cabin, where they found the Indian ravenously devouring the supper,   226 .OMANCE OF TiE which Nancy had hoped he might not touch unt they arrived. "Now, Christian," said the latter, "let us hea all you have to say,-" for the youth, when he ha' first arrived, had refused to give her a word of tlI news.   At. once he threw down his knife and fork and greeting Lydia with a faint smile, told then he had brought a letter from   Sir Edmund Andros to Governor Treat; and added, it would n ot be many days before the British troops would enter Hartford.   Here he produced the following letter which the girl eagerly perused. "Governor ANDROS to Governor TREAT. "BOSTON., Octobor 22d, 1687. "SIR-This is to acquaint you that I have received effectual orders and commands from his Majesty for Connecticut to be annexed to this government (in a very gracious manner), with particular regard and favor to yourself. And resolve to pend or be myself at Hartford about the end of next week, pursuant thereunto, to meet you and such gentlemen as you shall think fit for his Majesty's said service, which I will not doubt to your sa- tisfaction and other his Majesty's loyal subjects in your parts. "And remain, sir, your very affectionate friend, ' E. ANDROS. "; To the Honorable Governor TREAT."* "He will come," said Christian, when Lydia had finished the letter, " by way of Woodcocks-a well- known station on the old post road to Providence. From Providence he will follow the principal route to New London, and thence he is to strike across * Conn. Rec. iii. 387.   CHNRTER OAK.       227 the country to the Wethersfield ferry, which, as you know, is not many, miles below here, on the Connecticut river." The Indian now turned his attention once more to the platter in front of him; and knowing that the poor fellow was hungry, the girl left him to finish his repast, in the meanwhile engaging in serious conversation with Nancy as to the best mode of carrying out the plan devised by the latter for saving the charter.  "Well, well," said Lydia, " before nine o'clock bell rings, I will go with Christian to 1Mr. Wads- worth's and hear what the'Captain has to suggest. I am confident, however, that your apprehensions about my father's safety are groundless, for Andros is still in complete ignorance of his hiding-place. Yet there may be danger when Sir Edmund arrives, : for then-." Here her friend blushed, while Lydia did not fin- ish the sentence. "Alas!" sighed Nancy, " a trying time is coming for me. I love my parent; would that I could bring him over to our side! I've a mind to go and throw myself at his feet and beg him not to betray Colonel Goffe." Lydia shook her head. "Leave that to me," she said; "I will manage things so that my father will not be disturbed in his retreat, nor shall any body   228      ROMANCE OF THE injure Mr. Clark. I will stand between him a his enemies for your sake." At these words Nan threw her arms around Lydia's neck and wept tee of thankfulness. "Bless you, bless you," she sobbed; "I do n ask how you are going to accomplish it; but know you are bold and skilfull. I trust my fath to you, feeling confident neither he nor your ow parent will be molested." At this point Mrs. Bull entered and put a stc to the conversation by scolding the regicide daughter for having so rudely deserted her an forced her to walk home alone. The dame wa still growling when Christian started off to giv Governor Treat the letter which he had brought nor was she entirely restored to her usual good humor when he returned to accompany Lydia t Wadsworth's abode. CHAPTER XXXTX. As LYDIA, accompanied by the Pequot, passed along Main street on her way to Wadsworth's, she met Israel Barebones- and Mr. Philbrick, who both wondered at seeing her in such company, and when she had gone by them the youth informed her that   CHARTER OAK.       229 on his- way from Governor Treat's mansion the same couple had stopped him and asked his busi- ness. Nor was Miss Crabtree less astonished than the ruling elder and his friend, when she saw them entering the house together. But without heeding the dame's staring eyes, Lydia lmade her host a sign that she wanted to speak with him in the library, and likewise beckoned to Adams, who was seated on the hearth smoking his pipe. As soon as the door of the study closed, she repeated in as few words as possible the news which Christian had brought, giving the route Andros would take in order to reach Hartford; then went on -to explain the only way which remained for them to rescue the charter. "Since it cannot be done by force," she said, "the people having lost all courage, I will undertake to snatch it from his Excellency,- when it is placed before him on the table of the court chamber.", Adams and Wadsworth -could not repress a smile, as, for the first time, they had this novel plan unfolded to them. "It will be a daring attempt, quoth the latter, and one which could only have originated in your fertile brain, Miss Goffe." "Nay, sir," returned Lydia, "Nancy Clark sug- ' gested it; and if we succeed, all thanks must be given to her."   230      ROMANCE OE THE At the mention of Nancy's name a troubled look passed over Wadsworth's countenance. "Well, said Adams, "I am willing to try anything rather than have the charter taken from us. But the old soldier lying in the room above, help- less from rheumatism, who is to save him? For granting that Andros has not been told of his whereabouts-a thing, however, which I greatly doubt-will not Mr. Clark reveal it?" Lydia had expected that the tavern-keeper or Wadsworth would say something about Nancy's father, and, consequently, was ready with a plan which would prevent the latter from communicating with Sir Edmund. " Aye," said her host, just as she was about to speak, "that villain will no doubt betray us; but by the Almighty, I will leave my dead body on the threshold, before- any one crosses it to arrests the regicide." "And I propose," said Adams, touching his dag- ger and cutting sliort the words on Lydia's lips, "I propose to make Clark exchange worlds, ha, ha, ha! and I don't believe any of you could suggest an easier method of getting rid of a pest." "Perhaps not," exclaimed the girl, looking bold- ly at him; " but while Lydia Goffe is Lydia Goffe you shall not harm Nancy's father. Oh, Adams, you and I were good friends once on a time; do   CHARTER -OAK.      231 not scowl so, but listen and I will tell you what we- may do." "She is right," interrupted Wadsworth; "let your dagger alone. I'm as fond as you of a fair and open fight, but'I do not like murder." "Well, I propose," said Lydia, "to send Chris- tian to him with a message purporting to come from a member of Sir Edmund's staff, and in this message Mr. Clark will be told that Andros is going to approach Hartford by way of Windsor, instead of coming up from the Wethersfield ferry. It will likewise state that such a route has been chosen in order to take the settlement by surprise. The Pequot will accompany him to Windsor and keep him there until Andros is on his way back to Boston; and as Mr. Clark believes that the youth is one of those who have been bribed into the ser- vice of Sir Edmund, he will readily fall into the trap. What think you of this, Mr. Wadsworth?" "It is good," replied the Captain, " provided the Indian does his duty." At these words Christian's eyes flashed, and drawing his tomahawk: "What my flower wants me to do, I do," he exclaimed, '"and if any one try to hinder me, let him beware!" Here Adams, who could not help thinking the youth spoke thus in order to deter him from mur- dering Mr. Clark, broke in with a derisive laugh,   232      ROMANCE OF THE which made the girl's blood run cold; and turnin to her host: "You have heard," she said, "m plan; I rely on you to see that nothing 'make  fail." "I will do my best," returned Wadsworth, " will. Christian put back your weapon; and you Adams, let yOur dagger alone." Prudence and Miss Crabtree were now summnone to take part in the consultation, which lasted anothe hour, during which many methods were suggeste, for saving the charter; and in the end it was agrees that Wadsworth should wait not far from the tavern door, until Lydia should bring him the instrument which she was to snatch from the table the instan it would be placed before his Excellency--Adams Tom Hubbard and a few others standing by, wel armed and ready to open a passage way to the staircase leading from the court chamber. While if, as they hoped, the General Court should meet iD the evening, then dame Garlic, Miss Crabtree Nancy Clark and Dorothy Philbrick were suddenly to extinguish the lights, after which the regicide's daughter might without difficulty effect her purpose With this understanding the conference broke up, and Adams, mounting the Captain's swift Nar- ragansett pacer, started off on a reconnoissance--de- termined to push as far as he could on the road to az   CHARTER OAK.      233 New London, and satisfy himself of the move- ments of Sir Edmund. CHAPTER XL. FOUR days had elapsed since Mad Adams had started on his reconnoitering tour, and Wadsworth, seated by Lydia's side on 'one of the benches in the chimney, was speaking about him and Wondering why he had not yet returned, while ever and anon the Captain would give the girl a strange look, then press his hand upon his brow. "The hour is approaching," he would say to himself, "when I will know iny fate; I shall not again be thwarted by Nancy Clark. The moment Lydia brings me the charter I will speak out all that my soul has so long yearned to tell her. I am placed between her and despair-no, no; she will not refuse me." They had the house all to themselves-Miss Crab- tree and Prudence having retired at the sound of the nine o'clock bell, in order to be up bright and early next morning, the Sabbath-and as they sat by each other's side, Lydia's heart throbbed to think how soon she might meet Henry Synonot; while at the same time she could not help feeling anxious about the success of Nancy's plan for res- cuing the charter. "I will do my part," she said   234       ROMANCE OF THE to herself. "Pray God, the courage of my friends may not fail at the critical moment." And so they remained conversing together, and anon soliloquizing, until the clock on the cupboard sounded twelve, when just as the last stroke died away, they were startled by the clatter of a horse's hoofs along the road. Wadsworth sprang to his feet, so did Lydia, and both hastened to the door, expecting to find that Adams had arrived. Nor were they disappointed on gaining the threshold, they found the honest fellow' in the act of dismounting; then as he led Puritan 'towards the stable-" great news," he cried, " great news; I'll be back in a moment and tell it to you." "Well, make haste," said Lydia, " do not keep us in suspense." With this, she returned to the fireside and anxiously awaited his appearance. "Yes, great news!" repeated. Simon, when pre- sently he burst into the room. ' Andros is resting his troops twenty miles below the Wethersfleld ferry, and I am confident -he will not arrive until the sabbath sun has gone down. He has met thus far no opposition; nor does he expect any when he reaches here."b They now made Adams take a place near the * For account of Andros' friendly reception in Hartford, see Palfrey Vol. III, page 542. /    CHARTER OAK.       235 hearth, Wadsworth filling his pipe with tobacco while Lydia got some supper ready, and when the tavern-keeper had done smoking, he ate a hearty meal of cold victuals -it being already the Sabbath nothing warm could be provided-and as the girl bustled about, she felt little disposed to sleep, al- though it was very late. On the contrary, she felt strangely wakeful and uneasy, and when at length she did retire, she prayed God not to let her own courage fail-the next few days, would be trying ones. The night was wild and gusty, the nuts from the walnut tree came pattering down on the roof, with a harsh sound; the chimney, which passed through her bedroom, groaned as if it were full of evil spirits; while the 'dead man's seat,' which she had pushed into the farthest corner, looked as if it were, approaching her bed. "Upon my word"' said Lydia, as she held the candle towards it, "the chair certainly moved a moment ago!" Her slumbers during the next few hours were several times broken, she could not tell by what, and she rejoiced, when at length she heard the watchman's bell waking the good people of Hart- ford. The day opened with a cloudy sky, and the profound quiet which reigned through the town,   236      ROMANCE OF THE told plainly enough that it was the Sabbath ; not a dog barked, not a goose cackled, and you might have susposed that Tom  Hubbard had never- whistled in all his -life, so demure was his counten- ance. As usual, Lydia refrained from going to meeting with the rest of the household; and when the door had closed-behind Charity Crabtree-who always lingered to get a last view of her-she sum- moned Christian, who had been sitting up-stairs with her father for more than an hour, amusing the old gentleman wiIh accounts of Boston. "You once," she began, motioning the youth to a seat near her, "did me a good service, when you stole Mad Adams' sword and pistol. I want you now, to help me again ; the case is very urgent." U ith this, she went on to unfold her .scheme for preventing a meeting between Nancy's father and Andros, and ended by begging Christian to go at once to Clark's house and tell him that Sir Edmund might be expected within twenty-four hours; but that instead of entering the town from the south, he would approach by way of Windsor, so as to take the inhabitants by surprise, and that at this last named settlement he desired Mr. Clark to join him. "Tell him also," she added, " that Governor Treat will mislead the train-band by sending them to meet his Excellency at the Wethersfield ferry, as he fears, should they encounter the red-coats, their   CHNAREIt OAK.      237 old courage might revive, and Wadsworth might incite them to opposition. Stay you at Windsor with Mr. Clark until all danger is over of his meet- ing Sir Edmund; you may then leave him to come- back alone. Oh, the wretch! if he were not the father of my friend, I might not be so scrupu- lous of his safety." Having faithfully promised to carry out her wishes, the Pequot left the house, and as nearly all the inhabitants of the town were assembled in their respective places of worship, he succeeded in reach- ing Mr. Clark's abode without being stopped by anybody. But, quiet as. was the forenoon of this Sabbath day, during the afternoon there was more life and animation in Hartford, than was approved of by Israel Barebones and other scrupulous ob- servers of the covenant. The Governor, and Lieu- tenant-Governor, the assistants, and deputies, who were holding the October session of the General Court, mingled freely with the people and dis- cussed the subject uppermost in everybody's mind, viz: the coming of Andros. The great majority agreed that nothing should be done to oppose him ; the charter of Massachusets, had been declared null and void ; what then could prevent theirs from being sacrificed? Mr. Clark, however, did not show himself on the green, whereat everybody won-   238      ROMANCE OF THE dered for they knew the deep interest he took in in the king's cause. ';"I saw him," said Mad Adams, looking sharply at Lydia, " leave his house not many minutes ago, accompanied by Christian. They took that direc- tio,"' here he pointed towards the north. "Ah, Miss Lydia, Miss Lydia, can you trust the Pequot?  Has he not been bribed by Mr. Clark? On what evil errand have they set out?" To this the girl made no response; but inwardly rejoiced to know that Nancy's father was already on his way to Windsor, and that so far her plan was working well. Israel Barebones, in a low tone, urged his hear. ers strictly to enforce the religious laws of the colony, which he did not believe Sir Edmund would alter. "He is an anglican," he said to the group assem- bled round him, "mayhap, as some think, a Papist in disguise; but if we submit to him in political matters he will respect our faith; and our ducking- stools, whipping-posts, stocks, and I may add our cages for sabbath-breakers--of which I am shortly expecting a  couple--will be allowed to stand as warnings to evil-doers, and precious objects in the sight of the Lord. But now, brethllren," he added, "calm your excitement; I like not this buzzing of voices. Have ye forgotten it is the sabbath?"   CHARTER OAK.       239 There was a scowl on Adams' face as he listened to these remarks, but he did not open his lips, and politely bowed his head, when once the speaker accosted him as Mr. Adams. "Never mind," he said to himself, clenching his fist, "the day of retribution, although a long way off, is coming; and then, Israel Barebones, I shall pay you for all this." So hardened had the con- science of the publican become that he did not scruple to tell the goodman that the cages had not only been sent for, but would arrive on the mor- row; and when Mr. Barebones rolled up his eyes and -exclaimed, "Praise the Lord," Adams respond- ed, "Amen." The subject which, next to the approach of the British troops, was most ardently canvassed this afternoon, was the appearance of Lydia the evening before in company with Andros' messenger, whom several had recognized as the same young Indian that had once been expelled from the town. "I warrant you," quoth Mr. Philbrick, "the youth had something to tell her about that officer whom, a few months ago, she openly accosted in our presence. Depend upon it, brethren, she needs praying for." Thus the day wore on. Nor was any change made in the plan for rescuing the charter, save that Tom Hubbard and his sweetheart, Dorothy Phil-   240      ROMANCE OF THEm brick, were let into the secret and asked to lend their aid in carrying it out--which, of course, they did not refuse, being both as daring as they were saucy. That night Lydia's rest was scarcely less broken than on the previous one. The same high wind was blowing around the house; the chimney moan- ed, and the walnuts again pattered on the roof. Monday, October 31st, she was up bright and early. The sky was overcast, a storm seemed to be brew- ing, and as she stood at the doorway, by the side of Wadsworth: "'Tis just the day," she said, "-to try our hearts. There will be no sun to cheer us. Those clouds seem to oppress me, but oh, sir, with- God's help, the charter will be saved." While they were thus conversing, several mem- bers of the train-band approached and urged their chief to put himself at their head. "We're going," they said, " to meet Andros and show him that our intentions are peaceful; it is the best thing to do, Cap., the best thing to'do. Mas- sachusetts has submitted; we may as well follow her example, and as Mr. Barebones counsels, trust in the Almighty to redress our wrongs." At this, without opening his lips, but with a look of supreme scorn, Wadsworth drew Lydia from the threshold, then closing the door, passed with her into the library, where they remained several hours   CHARTER OAK.       241 together, each too absorbed in thought to care about conversing. At length this anxious day came to an end, and Mad Adams, who had gone down the river on another reconnoissance, returned and informed them that Andros was only a mile off. "The train- band are escorting him," he said, "Oh, Captain, Captain, who would have believed this six months ago! The very men who cried the loudest for In- dependence are shouting, 'long live the King.' Without a moment's delay, Wadsworth now warned his aunt and Goody Garlic that it was time for them to repair to the Court Chamber, while Lydia hastened to find Tom Hubbard, Dorothy and Nancy. The news which Adams had brought spread like wild-fire through the settlement, and from every dwelling there poured forth a stream of boys and girls and old folks, all eager to witness the great event, the entry of Sir Edmund. The Assistants and Deputies were soon congregated in the Legislative hall, while Governor Treat took a position in front of the Bunch of Grapes, to greet his Excellency. In about half an hour the blast of a trumpet announced that Andros had reached the outskirts of the town, and immediately every eye was turned in that direction. The train-band ap- peared first, leading the way, then followed Sir Ed- mund, on a richly caparisoned steed, while by his   242      ROMANCE OF THE side rode an officer whom every body recognised as the same who had more than once carried de- spatches to Governor Treat. Never had Andros looked better than he did on this occasion. He was just in his fiftieth year and his countenance, which betokened great resolution, wore a smile of triumph, as he found himself entering without op- position the principal town of the Commonwealth. "What good news," he said to himself, "I shall send the king!" Following Andros came sixty troopers, and when Wadsworth beheld this handful of soldiers, tears of mortification -started to his eyes. "Oh, shame," he cried, "shame on my train-band!" The welcome which Governor Treat gave Andros was most cordial, and sent a thrill of joy through the breast of Israel Barebones, who saw in it a harbinger of peace and harmony. Lydia, however, paid no heed to the movements of Sir Edmunld; her eyes were constantly fixed on Henry Synnot, who already hadi exchanged significant glances with her. After the first greeting was over, his Excellency was u ered into the court chamber, where the assistants and deputies received him with every demonstration-of respect; then having taken the chair at the further end of the Hall, usually oc- cupied by the chief magistrate of the colony, he motioned the latter to a seat on his right, afler   CHARTER OAK.       243 which turning to the Deputy Governor, he bade him place himself on his left. Behind them stood Captain Synnot; while of the troopers whom Andros had brought -to Hartford, only two were present, the rest being marshalled on the green, prepared to resist any attempt at insurrection; which, however, did not seem at all likely to occur. The scene which the hall presented was a very in- teresting one. The orderlies, with drawn swords, stood on either side of the long, narrow table, around which the members of the Assembly were seated, while one, besides his weapon, carried the new flag which had been brought over from Eng- land, namely a red cross on a white ground, and in the centre a crown wrought in gold with the letters J. R. The sombre, drab coats of the Puritans, and their close, square cut hair formed a striking con- trast to the burnished steel head-piece and cuirass of Sir Edmund, and the scarlet uniform, decked with gold lace, of Captain Synnot. Three large candle-sticks, each bearing four candles, threw a flickering light on the table; while within easy reach of the one nearest to Andros, we find Nancy and Lydia, who under pretense of gratifying their curiosity, have pushed their way here, regardless of the crowd. Further down the hall, Dorothy Philbrick and Tom Hubbard have taken up a position where they   244      ROMANCE OF THE may with facility extinguish the lights in the second candlestick, while Miss Crabtree and Goody Garlic are ready to perform a similar duty at the lower extremity of the chamber. To Adams has been assigned the part of keeping the stairway clear for the regicide's daughter to pass down with the charter should she be fortunate enough to secure it, of which, however, he has many doubts, and the nervous way he strokes his shaggy beard shows how seriously he views the situation. At the porch of the inn, according to agreement, Wadsworth is waiting with. his swift steed ready to carry the instrument to Wyllys' hill as soon as Lydia shall have placed it in his hands, and we can well imagine how his heart throbs, as with eyes intently fixed on the court chamber window, he listens for the first sound of disturbance. And the regicide's daughter-what emotions fill her breast at this moment! How she glances at Syn- not, then at the tyrant, who has already given, her more than one rude stare and whispered to his chief of staff that she is the loveliest creature he has seen since he landed in New England. "ady Andros," said he, "has asked me to find a young woman native-born in the colonies, beautiful and at the same time sufficiently educated to be a maid of honor: methinks yonder lass would suit her ladyship. Of humble origin she   CHARTEa OAK.      245 doubtless is; yet she has a striking face, and by the way she carries herself one might say old blood coursed in her veins." At these words Synrot's countenance suddenly brightened. "I shall not lose sight of her, your Excellency," he replied; " she is indeed very unlike all the other maidens I have seen since leaving Europe. There is no child beauty about her, her expression indicates soul. I warrant she is brave, ambitious and attached to Connecticut, and if you wish to have her follow you to Boston and serve her Ladyship, you must make her some offer -becoming one of her nature." "Suggest something," whispered Sir Edmund, ' suggest something. If money and high position ewill not tempt her, tell me what might." "Authorize me to say to her, your Excellency, that if she will consent to what you propose, you will restore to the people of Hartford the land which they had voted for school purposes, and which, as you may remember, has been bestowed on Nathaniel Clark." For about a'minute Andros was silent; he seemed to be revolving in his mind these words of the officer. "I will," he presently answered, "I will make her that offer. But speaking of Mr. Clark makes me wonder that he is not here to greet me. Humph! perhaps 'tis as well I should hold no con-   246.      RO3IANCE OF THE ference with him if I am so soon to take back the gift I made; and besides, judging from the quiet demeanor of the people, I am not likely to need his services any longer. This colony has shown far greater readiness to submit to my authority than Massachusetts." When Andros had done speaking with Synnot, he addressed a few remarks to Governor Treat, who presently made a sign to an official standing near by. "Now be firm," said Lydia, pressing the hand of her friend; "the charter is coming." She was right. Yet before she was to play her daring part, an incident was to happen which con- firmed Sir Edmund's opinion of her, character. Israel Barebones, who, until now had been stand- ing like a statue just behind her, suddenly clasped his hands, and with an expression of the most in- tense zeal, began to pray aloud. Tom Hubbard winked at -Dorothy, who gave her lover a pinch and bade him hold his tongue, while Lydia thrned towards the old man with an impatient glance, for she was anxious to performn her trying part as quickly as possible, and the ruling elder's exhorta- tation might last an hour. "Almighty God," he began, "we return Thee thanks for the profound peace which reigns in our beloved commonwealth. Grant that we, Thy people,   CHARTER OAK.       247 may continue to have our thoughts fixed only on Zion, and not on the affairs of this world. What is wealth? What is glory? 'What is liberty-if in striving to attain them we lose our souls? Remain steadfast, ye men and women of Connecticut, to the plan of our fathers. Be worthy children of the new Israel, and while ye submit to Governor Andros, let your hearts still be tabernacles of grace. Allow no bishops to come among ye. Abhor the Anglican church. Shun all contact with it as ye would shun a den of rattlesnakes, for it is only popery in disguise." Here the speaker stretched out his arm and pointing at the banner which the soldier was holding : "Yonder cross," le continued, his voice rising as he became more excited, " yon- der cross which pollutes that otherwise beautiful flag, is a scandal in my eye, and " It were difficult to tell where the goodman might have stopped in his denunciation of Andros' em- blem of. authority, had not his words been suddenly cut short by the trooper thrusting his sword at him. "He must be mad," exclaimed Sir Edmund, "Captain Synnot, bid the orderly sheath his wea- pon, then have the greyheaded fool turned out of the room." But before this command had been given, Lydia, who really believed Israel Barebones was going to be murdered, had grasped the point of the sword   248      ROMANCE OF THE and stopped it when it was within an inch of his breast; then, with a look of haughty defiance, slowly pushed it aside. "What a girl she is-!" continued Andros, still ad- dressing his aid-de-camp, "verily, I shall not let her pass her days among these boors. But see, see!" here he drew from his pocket a costly silk handkerchief, "she has hurt herself!"While he was speaking, the brow of Henry Synnot had con- tracted-his black eyes were now flashing fury. "I want not your kerchief, sir," exclaimed Lydia, releasing her hold of the sword, and lifting up be- fore the multitude her wounded hand. "Would to God more blood" had flowed this day in Connecti- cut. But alas! we are fallen on evil times, when men think more of garnering crops and living at ease than of defending their rights." Here Andros turned impatiently to Governor Treat, and again asked to have the charter pro- duced-" and make haste," he whispered, "make haste." The truth is, although any thing but a coward, such bold language as the girl was using caused him to shrink back in his chair-he dreaded the effect it might have upon that crowd of scowling men. Lydia, however, to his great relief, did not follow up her words, but simply urging Mr. Bare- bones to retire, folded her arms, then rivetted upon   CHABTER OAK.       249 the tyrant all the fire of her haughty eyes. Pre- sently a low murmur rang through the hall and a roll of parchment, with .the Royal Seal affixed, was spread out upon the table in front of his Excellency. The critical moment had come. Even Tom Hub- bard's face twitched-Goody Garlic looked anxious- ly at Lydia; while Nancy Clark trembled from I  head to foot. But Goffe's daughter showed no sign of fear, as, with lips firmly pressed, she leaned forward and seemed trying to read the wording on tihe parchment; and in this attitude she remained nearly half a minute, which appeared hours to those who were to assist her on this memorable oc- casion. Suddenly, just as Andros raised his hand to place it on the charter, every light was extinguished! Wadsworth knew what had happened-his breath came to him in great gasps, and instinctively he stretched out his arms into the darkness. The confusion which followed was indescribable. The Deputies and Assistants, the Governor and Lieutenant-Governor, as well as Sir Edmund him- self, believed some awful fate was impending. "What means this?" cried the latter, in fierce tones; "Captain Synnot, out, quick, marshal the troops!"  His aid-de-camp started to obey the order, but found it impossible to go more than a few feet,   250      ROMANCE OF THE owing to the panic-stricken multitude pressing against him, but he was still endeavoring to push his way through the darkness when he felt the touch of a woman's hand. "Lydia--is that you?" he whispered. "Yes, yes," she replied. "Then quick-come to the spot I have just left --you will be crushed to death here." "No, no; do not stay me," said the girl, freeing herself from her lover's grasp, and with wild efforts attempting to move forward with her prize, "do not stay me-back, friends-make way." But on every side the passage to the door was barred by the surging mass, and in her despair she groaned aloud. Quick as thought came back an answering voice, "give it to me, give it to me"- and bending down  from the brawny shoulder of Tom. Hubbard, Nauncy's hand touched  Lydia's. Thankfully did the regicide's daughter entrust the instrument to her friend, then, before a single match could be struck, by dint of kicks and merci- less blows of his fists, the lad succeeded in reach- ing the staircase with his precious burthen; nor was it until he was half way down that the candles nearest Sir Edmund were relit and his Excellency discovered what had been done. The panic now subsided almost as suddenly as it had arisen, and drawing a long breath and waving his hand at Syn-   CHARTER OAK.       251 not, "never mind," he cried, "do not call the troops; the people mean us no bodily harm, they have only stolen the charter. By heaven 'twas a bold act!" Then turning towards Governor Treat with a sinister smile, "'twill avail the people naught," he exclaimed, "I will still be their master." Then with the greatest composure, as soon as the other candles were relit, he opened the record book of the colony, and taking a pen closedthe record in these words: "At a general court at Hartford October, 31st, 1687-his Excellency Sir Edmund Andros, Knight, and Captain-General, and Governor of his Majesty's territories and dominions in New England by order from his Majesty, James the Second- King of England, Scotland, and Ireland, took into his hands the government of the colony of Con- necticut, it being by his Majesty annexed to Massa- chussetts, and other colonies under his Excellency's government-Finis." ' This being done, he im- mediately set to work appointing officers, civil and military for Connecticut. The number of his council was increased to fifty, by adding to it Governor Treat, John Fitzwinthrop, Wait Win- throp, and John Allyn; while so calmly did he pro- ceed in the work of reorganizing the government Conn. Rec. II. 248.   252      ROMANCE OE THE that he did hot- leave the court chamber till withil a few minutes of bell ringing. Let us now go back, and see what became of thE charter. As we remember we left it in the care o Nancy Clark, who borne on the stout shoulders o: young Hubbard, reached the foot of the-stairwaJ before Andros discovered that it was gone. Once safe below, the young woman insisted that Ton should return to Lydia. "She may need your help," she said, "for the people were pushing one another about in a frantic manner-go quick, and stay with her until she is out of the crush." The lad obeyed; then without pausing an instant longer, Nancy rushed out of the Ordinary, to the spot where according to the agree- ment Wadsworth was to wait and receive the char- ter. It was a pitch dark night, a drizzling rain was falling. As she drew near, Puritan gave a loud neigh--in another moment, she found herself clasped in the Captain's arms. "Well done, Lydia, well done," he said; "for- give me if I press my lips to your brow-speak, 'tis but a word-tell me that I have not loved you in vain." "Mr. Wadsworth," said Nancy, in a voice firm' yet inexpressibly mournful, "release me. I am not Lydia; take the charter which I bring-go   CHARTER OAK.       253 hide it, and may the Almighty stay his wrath-may he pity you-oh Wadsworth, Wadsworth!" So thunderstruck and mortified was the chief of the train-band, when he discovered his mistake, that Nancy's words instead of softening his feelings towards her, and causing him to think of his vow, roused his anger to an uncontrollable pitch, and crumpling between his fingers the parchment which she had given him-he thrust her violently away; then springing into the saddle, he galloped off to- wards Wyllys' hill, muttering, "'tis my fate--my fate.' 'The devil's hand is over me." He was not long in reaching the oak, where in a frame of mind bordering on distraction, he con- cealed the precious instrument which Andros had come to Hartford to seize; then remounting his horse, went back at a more leisurely gait towards the town, muttering still, "'tis my fate, my fate." He must have gone almost half way, to the green when Puritan suddenly swerved to the left-there was a figure standing in the road,'who could it be?" "Is that you, Wadsworth?" said a voice he knew well. "Ah! there you are again," lie impatiently ex- claimed, "what do you want now? why always pursuing me?" Lowering her tone, for Nancy feared lest some   254      ROMANCE OF THE. body might overhear her,-" do not upbraid me," she continued, "I would not for the world stand in the way of your happiness-not for myself, even if I believed I had a place in your heart, would I urge you to pause. Lydia is a noble, beautiful girl--myidearest friend; but, Wadsworth, remem- ber, oh, remember your vow!" "Why remind me of that?" he exclaimed. "Let it perish from my memory! I have asked, but have not received, I have sought, but have not found, I have knocked, but it has not been opened unto me. Go, Nancy! blame the Author of my being-Him who made me what I am; who, when the temptation came, left me to my own strength ; go, go, do not even pray for me!" Here he struck his hand against his brow, then rode on, almost trampling down the young woman, who had been standing in front of his horse. As he went a voice followed him. I will pray," it said, "CI will pray." Then another voice seemed to answer, "Never again, Nancy, never again." He put his hands to his ears, yet still the voices pursued him, and in his despair he cried aloud, "no, never, never, never again."   CHARTER OAK.      255 CHAPTER XLI. THAT night, at an hour when the townfolks were supposed to be all asleep, two figures might have been seen walking together in the direction of Wadsworth's house. Lydia was listening with wrapt attention to what Henry Synnot was telling her, and never did suitor plead his cause with more burning words; yet while she did not attempt to conceal her attachment for him, she frankly avowed that she could not be his as long as he served James the Second. ' In regard to the other mat- ter," she said, " while it will be a hard trial to part with dear father, yet I am willing to make any sacrifice to get back the school land which Nathaniel Clark now wrongfully holds; "yes, if going to Boston and becoming maid of honor to Lady Andros will restore to Hartford those goodly acres -then I cheerfully consent to the step you have proposed." The officer here expressed some anxiety about Nancy's father. "The plan which you adopted for keeping him from meeting Sir Edmund," he said, "was indeed well contrived; "but when he re- turns and finds that he has been duped, may he not hasten to Boston and reveal what he knows   256      ROMANCE- OF THE about the regicide? and will he not want to ask the cause of his being deprived of the school land -the loss of which will greatly astonish him after having been given the deed?"  "Leave that to me," replied Lydii. "I shall so contrive that he will not go to Boston. How I am to overcome this new difflculty will soon be made clear to you, Henry. All I ask in order to carry out my plan is that you furnish me a hundred pounds.", "A hundred pounds!" exclaimed her lover. "By my faith, 'tis a large sum to procure on so short a -notice; nevertheless I believe his Excel- lency's purse is good for the amount. He-owes me more than that; I will ask for the money to-mor- row, and as soon as I get it it shall be at your dis- posal." They had now reached Wadsworth's abode, and fearing to linger by the door lest the ever watchful Charity -Crabtree might come out and discover them together, the officer kissed her hand and they separated. Although it was long past bell ringing when the regicide's daughter entered, she found a huge fire blazing, and Wadsworth, Adams, Miss Crabtree, Prudence, Tom Hubbard and Dorothy, all waiting to-receive her. Her old nurse, who had been reading a chapter in the Bible, did not even finish the sentence, but rushed towards her, and   CHARTER OAK.       287 after a hasty embrace began examining her wound- ed hand, then playfully chided her for not having come home at an earlier hour. Even the crochety aunt was so rejoiced, -that she forgot- to ask where she had been, and showered no end of praises on her f(r the bravery she had displayed in the court chamber; while Adams, his hardened countenance brightened by the same expression of kindliness which Lydia had so often seen upon it when he had visited her in the wilderness, maintained there was not another girl like her in all Connecticut. As for Tom Hubbard and his sweetheart, they each caught her. by an arm and shook her as if they wanted to pull her to pieces, the lad declaring it was herself and not Nancy Clark he had meant to carry out of the hall. Wadsworth alone held aloof, but while his lips did not move, his cavernous eyes darted upon her a strange fire ; they seemed to cast a spell over her and it required a strong effort to turn' awav from him, "Although it is not far from midnight," exclaimed Dorothy, "I could not go home without congratu- lating you, Miss Lydia, on your brave conduct. I was also impatient to show you what Tom picked up on the court-room floor; Andros must have lost it in the confusion which followed the extinction of the lights--see!" Here the girl produced -a heavy gold seal on   AV      RKOMANCE OF TtHE which was marked a crown and the letters E. A This" she continued, "shall belong to the one who to-day saved our charter." Here she placed theprize in Lydia's hand. Tile latter stared at it a moment, apparently in deep thought; then suddenly looking up, and asking Adams not to go away until she returned, she hastened to her father's room on the second story. The old gentleman was asleep when she approached the bedside, and when she awoke him appeared surprised to find her there. "What is the matter, has anything happened, Lydia?" he exclaimed. "Yes," she replied, "stay calm, however; what I am going to tell you will not cause more grief to your heart than to my  own. A  great end can rarely be attained without suffering. Father, I have come to bid you good-bye." At these words the regicide, old and feeble as he was, rose from  the pillow and seized her by the wrist. "/Has this hand," he exclaimed, , with the bloody rag upon it, aught to do with your strange announcement?  Although I am confined to my bed, I  became satisfied to-day that something un- usual was occurring. Tell me child, what was it?" "Yes," rejoined Lydia, "Andros is in town. but no danger, father, no danger to you; he does not know you are here; he only came to take the   C-HAKRTEIS OAK.     1iV charter. But I saved it, and it lies hidden where he never will find it. As for my hand, 'tis only scratched by the point of a sword, which one of Sir Edmund's soldiers- aimed at Israel Barebones, and which I thrust aside. I did not intend to speak about it; I only came to bid good-bye and ask your blessing." At these words the old gentleman burst into tears ; he could not speak, and seizing the coverlet with a convulsive grasp fell back on the pillow. "Oh, father," continued Lydia, her voice trem- bling and the tears starting to her own eyes, " do not take it so hard, I will return. Listen now, and I will tell why I am going. The British officer whom, as I once confessed, I am in love with, is in town. I have had an interview with him-he has urged me to be his bride-but I have refused; 'inever, said I, as long as you serve King James.' I have consented, however, to return with him to Boston and be maid of honor to Lady Andros, who it seems is desirous of having that place filled by a young woman who is a native of New Eng- land. And Henry Synnot has assured me that if I will do that, Sir Edmund will give back to the people of Hartford the school land which is now wrongfully held by Mr. Clark, the father of my friend Nancy." "How like you, child, how like you!" exclaimed   lYIANuC' OF THE         the old gentleman, drying his tears; then placing his hand on her head--"God bless you! God bless you and may your mission be successful." Here grief again mastered him, and for a few rminutes father and daughter wept together. At lehgth by a strong effort Lydia resumed her self-  command; then bringing the lamp nearer she showed hiim the seal, and after telling how she had come by it, ended by heaping praises on Dorothy  Philbrick for the firmness she had displayed in the court chamber, and expressing a hope that Tomn Hubbard's courtship would have a happy ending. With this she gave the old gentleman a kiss and withdrew to the lower story, realizing as she had never- done before, how happy the days had been which she had passed under Wadsworth's roof. On arriving below she found that Tom-Hubbard and his sweetheart had gone home; but Prudence and Cllarity were still waiting up, dear knows for what purpose, unless to finish their chapter in the Bible, while Wadsworth was seated beside Adams, his arms folded and looking the picture of despair. To see him thus made Lydia wonder, for she thought .the way Andros had been circumvented ought to have been enough to fill his heart with gladness. "Captain," she said in a winning voice, and pointing towards the library, "follow me; and you,   too, Adams, come." They obeyed, then as soon as soon as the door was closed she told them that. she was going on the morrow to Boston, and gave her reasons for taking so strange a step. "Noble girl!" exclaimed her host, " there is no other in this world like you! Noble, noble girl!" The tavern-keeper however, shook his head; he ap- peared to doubt Lydia's sincerity. True, she had snatched the charter away from Andros that evening, but his mind was haunted by the memory of her interview with Henry Synnot, which he had wit- nessed a few months before; and now to have her tell him she was going to accompany Sir Edmund to Massachusetts, was enough to destroy what little faith he had left in hler patriotism. "Yes, noble girl!" continued Wadsworth, "dearly as you love your father, you do not hesitate to part from him, in order to benefit the commonwealth,. Let us hope Sir Edmund may not prove a deceiver, and that we will get back the school land; but Lydia-'return soon." Hlere he placed his hand upon hers, which was resting on the table. "'Twill be a great consolation," she replied, slightly blushing, " to know that I leave my parent under your roof." Here Adams again shook his head, and muttered something  about Clark. "Oh, yes, I've thought of him," continued Lydia,   262      ROMANCE OF THE glancing at the publican; "listen, and I will tell what method I have devised to guard against his communicating with Andros."  It might strike some folks overbuitfiened with scruples like Israel Barebones, as not altogether proper and truthful; still, considering that I am the daughter of the regicide, I shall not be stopped by a trife of con- science. Now listed. I am going to write a letter to MDr. Clark, sign it with Sir Edmund's name, and stamp it with his seal-which by a special Provi- dence, has come inth my possession. In that letter I will say, that Goffe being too infirm to escape again into the wilderness, need not be disturbed, and that 'tis only necessary to watch the house wherein he is concealed, and send immediate word should there be an prospect of his again taking to flight. And I will end by declaring that the reason why my father is not now arrested, is that his Ex- cellency will go to England' in a twelvemonth or so, at which time he will take the regicide aboard the same vessel, and deliver him with his own hand to the King. I  will also add, that Mr. Clark will then be invited to accompany his Excellency, and receive thie thanks of his sovereign. What think you of this?" "It is a plan which never would have entered my head," exclaimed the tavern-keeper; "no, never!"   CHARTER OAK.       263 "Nor mine either," said Wadsworth. "Verily it was a special Providence which sent you Andros' seal; but for that, Mr. Clark might suspect your letter to be a forgery. Oh, Lydia, what an ingeni- ous brain you-have. But now, let me inquire how soon you leave?" "To-morrow, sir; and as time is short, having yet to inform Goody Garlic that she must accom- pany me, as well as having to write the letter, I will bid you good-night."' She was about to leave the room, when Wads- worth exclaimed: "Hold! let me have a share in the great work you are about to undertake. You shall journey to Boston on the swiftest steed in the colony; all who see him will envy you, and may the Almighty spare you to return to Hartford on the back of my faithful Puritan. Do you accept the gift?" Lydia could not refuse, she even thanked the Captain with a warmth which again misled him, and had not Adams been present he might have fallen on his knees and confessed his love. Then hastening into the other room, the girl told- her old nurse in the presence of Miss Crabtree, that this was to be their last night here, and thlat on the morrow they were to accompany Sir Edmund An- dros to Massachusetts. When Charity heard this, she let fall her dream-book, which she was about   264      ROMANCE OF THE replacing in the cupboard-and this time she did it through unfeigned astonishment, and not as on a former occasion in order to attract somebody's attention-while Goody Garlic, whose countenance expressed alarm as well as wonder, rushed into the library and told Wadsworth the girl had gone mad. Nor was it an easy matter for the chief of the train-band to explain how matters stood, and to show that Lydia had never been more sane than at this moment; but, when at length the goodwife was persuaded that her darling had not lost her wits, she drew a long breath, then while the tears started to her eyes muttered a prayer of thanks. giving. ' It was one o'clock in the morning before any of the family retired. The master of the house paced back and forth with Adams; while Charity and Pru- dence, with a jug of cider and a pile of walnuts be- tween them, went on chatting as if they would never stop. Many were the anecdotes they re- lated, some  of them funny, some of them sad, to most of which Lydia appeared to listen with the greatest of interest; but ever and anon she would bury her face in her hands and ponder over the letter which she had yet to write. At length, the empty nut-shells and the jug, from which the last drop had been poured, brought the Dld maids to a  sense of how late the hour was; to "   CHARTER OAK.       265 sit up longer might give scandal, so rising from the table they sang a hymn and withdrew. Lydia in a few minutes followed their example; but be- fore she entered her bed-room, she was seized by Miss Crabtree, who had been waiting for her at the top of the staircase, and after being kissed on both cheeks, was told by the dame, in the most empha- tic terms, that Wadsworth would watch over her parent as if he were his own flesh and blood. "Yes," said Charity, "you need not have the least anxiety about the old gentleman. Hie never, never shall be molested while my Joe is alive. And my Joe will often think of you. Come back from Boston as soon as you can and we'll give another husking party. And--and--now don't take offence --keep your curls clipped--they're- sproutin' again -and will afore long reach a sinful length-good night." CHAPTER   XLTT. WADSWORTH had invited Lydia to write her mis- sive to Mr. Clark in his study, where she would have every convenience of pen, ink and paper; and perhaps if he had urged her with less eagerness she might have accepted the offer. But she suspected his object. "Yes," she said, "he wants to have   266      ROMANCE OF THE me there alone, and then make a proposal of marriage. I will spare him the pain of a refu- sal, and write the letter in my bed-room." So while Goody Garlic was falling asleep, she began to compose it. First, she made Sir Edmund thank Nancy's father for his faithful services to the royal cause-services which had done so much to bring about the present submissive spirit of the people of Hartford. He then went on to say that the dis- covery of the regicide was something for which no reward -would be too great. "Accept," he con- tinued, "these hundred pounds, which I inclose, together with my private seal. I had intended en- tering Hartford by way of Windsor in order to take the inhabitants by surprise-and accordihgly sent you word to join me at the latter town. But liav- ing heard, when within a day's journey of your place, that far from being inclined to dispute my advance, the train-band was actually gring to give me welcome at the Wethersfield ferry, I changed my route, and so did not have the great pleasure of meeting you. My reason for not bringing Goffe with me to Boston, on this present occasion, is the state of his health, which Captain Synnot assures me is such that the journey would prove fatal. His daughter I have taken as a hostage, albeit she knows it not, but has been made to belieye that by entering the service of Lady Andros I shall be in-   CHARTER OAK.      267 duced to show favors to Connecticut. Watch her father carefully. In a twelvemonth or so I am go- ing to England, when I will hand him over myself to the King, and you shall accompany me. Until then, keep on the alert, and believe me, "Your friend,   "E. ANDROS, ( "Governor of N. E." She did not seal the letter, for she had not yet obtained the money which was to be put in it, but having laid down her pen, sat nearly au hour by the little table reading and re-reading what she had written, and musing on her strange destiny. The same feelings came over her as the night be- fore she lhad left her home in the wilderness; but now, added to the excitement of going to a new country and grief at leaving her father, was a sense of pride and enthusiasm. Difficult might be the part she would have to play, yet she felt that no trials would be too great if only she could recover for the people of Hartford their lost school land. "Besides," thought Lydia, "Henry Synnot will be near me, and-" here she clasped her hands, "God may so bring it about that he will not always serve a tyrant." In the meanwhile the candle flickered, Goody Garlic snored, and her eyes, every now and then wandered towards the dead man's chair. At one momrne she fancied the door of her room was opening, and it made her skin creep-perhaps   268      ROMANCE 0F THE Wadsworth might enter, as he had done once be- fore, led, as she believed, by an invisible hand ; and although she was not easily frightened, his un- earthly eyes had left an impression on her mind which no years would efface, and she shuddered at the idea of beholding him again under the influenco of a supernatural power. When, finally, she bless out-the light and withdrew to her couch, it was not to sleep ; twice she started up under the belief that the door was opening, while once she felt sure some- body was touching the horseshoe, at the bed post. Oh, how slowly the night seemed to pass! was dawn ever coming? was the watch never going to ring the bell? But at length, after what appeared an endless time, Lydia heard Charity Crabtlee descending the stair-case; the bell was sounding, and hastily rising from her pillow, she threw on her robes, then awoke Prudence and informned her that as they were to leave Hartford at an eally hour she must lose not a moment in packing the sheepskin bag. "Yes, do get up," said the girl, "do get up; and while I go bid farewell to.-Nancy Clark, pack the bag and let all be ready when I return." With this she went below, then having put on her cloak and hood and allowed Charity to kiss her again on both cheeks, she glided out of the house. When she arrived at Mrs. Bull's she was surprisedl to find the shutters of the cottage closed, for, how-   CHARTER OAK.      269 ever lazy the widow herself might be, she knew that Nancy's habits of early rising were much like her own. But she had only to knock once when the door flew open and her friend stood before her. "Wlhat brings you here so early, Lydia? Has any thing happened to father?" exclaimed the young woman. "I have not seen him -these two days. Tell me, has anything happened?" Lydia assured her, on her word of honor, that Mr. Clark was safe and uninjured, but that he had not yet come back from Windsor, whither he had gone, under the mistaken notion that Andros would approach the settlement from that direction; then in a playvful way she chided her friend for being so late getting up. "Don't blame me," saidl Nancy, in a whisper, and with a sweet smile, for the news she had just heard about her parent had taken a load off her heart; " you know that Mrs. Bull is as stubborn as yourself, nay, more stubborn; for while neither you nor she go to meeting on the Sabbath, my darling Lydia at least--rises at bell ringing." Here a gruff voice was heard scolding Nancy for disturbing the quiet of the house. "What scruples ye have," growled  Mrs. Bull, "about obeying the laws! Why, they might fine me till they fined all the clothes off my btack, and   270      ROMANCE OF THE ring the bell till Gabriel answered it with his trum- pet afore I'd get up, if I felt like lying abed." Here the widow slipped her hand under the pil- low and pulling out the tarred rope, began to smell it. "Alas!" she sighed, " alas! the tar is fad- ing-'taint near so strong as it used to be. But tar or no tar, 'twill always make me think of the;  old man. There never was such a sailor as hle- nor a btark like the Polly Ann!"Then again changing her voice to a growl--"But, Miss Nancy, who's that you're talking to?"At this, Lydia made herself known, and after laughingly telling the dame that she would not report her for being so late abed, she went on to tell her friends of the strange step she was about to take; and when she added that in less than an hour she might be on the way to Boston, Nancy could no longer restrain her tears, while the widow muttered an oath and brought the rope violently down on the bed post. "What'll I  do without you?" she cried. "On a long and stormy voyage two ships in company are better than one. If a  sail or spar gets blowed away they can make up the loss atween 'em. But now I'm to be left all by myself in the hands of the Philistines. Aye, Nancy Clark, don't take scandal at my words. They are Philistines. Never, never, by all the sharks, will I believe their hearts are the tabernacles of grace. And the worst of 'erm all is   CHARTERB OAK.      271 our ruling elder, who would have persecuted me even more than he has, if Miss Lydia hadn't been near to back me up. But now she's going away- going away!"Here:Mrs. Bull drew her sleeve across her eyes, then struck the bed post another blow. "Would to God you were Israel Barebones," she cried, gazing at the inanimate object with a savage expression; " oh, yes, don't I wish it!" She was still beating the post when Lydia said good-bye-and although the girl's heart was any- thing but joyful, she could not help smiling at the ludicrous spectacle. "As for your father, dear Nancy," she whispered, lingering a- moment on the threshold, ,' no harm shall come to him. I have Wadsworth's word for that." Then pressing her friend's hand, and tell- ing her not to neglect Mrs. Japheth, the regicide's daughter departed. But she had only gone a little ways when she heard Mrs. Bull calling out to her to come back, and retracing her steps she met the jolly old soul wrapped in a huge dressing gown-which had be- longed to her husband-standing in the doorway puffing with the exertions she had made to get there. "I want, you," whispered the dame, after glancing round to see that Nancy was not listening, "I want you to send me by hook or by crook   272      ROMANCE OF THE another Shakespeare; you know the one I had was burnt by the Philistines." Having promised to comply with her request, Lydia again bade her farewell and laughed heartily as she went along the road, for she could hear' the cracking and the snapping of the old tarred rope as it came down over. the bed post and which ill the crisp November air sounded like the report of a pistol.  The girl's next object was to find Henry Synnot, and procure from him the money which was to ac- company the letter and the seal. Had her lover, however, been as sluggish as the foreign troopers whom Sir Edmund had brought to Hartford, it is doubtful whether she would have met him at this early hour. But the truth is, he was no less de- sirous of finding Lydia, in order to let her know that Andros was to set out on his return to Boston at nine o'clock, and he wanted to consult about her mode of travelling, and ask if she would go in a litter or on horseback. It was near the green where once before he had openly accosted the girl in presence of the townfolks that. Captain Synnot appeared-and he seemed to recognize her in the distance, for he waved his hand when she was yet scarcely more than across -the bridge. "A lovely morning," he said, advancing and   CHARTER OAK.       273 making a low obeisance, " we will travel fast to- day; the frost will spur us on." "Yes, there is nothing like this air. I feel as if I could walk the whole distance," returned Lydia, "but having been offered the best horse in the colony I may as well ride. The animal belongs to the famous Narragansett breed, and was given me by Joseph Wadsworth, chief of the Hartford train- band." "Indeed! well it pleases me to know you will be well mounted-I long to see you on horseback. How soon can you be ready?" "In an hour, sir, or less ; I only want to say good- bye to father." "Your father L Oh, what would I give to meet him!" exclaimed the officer. "I suppose that would be impossible." "Yes, impossible; not that it would cause him any alarm, for I have told him you were his friend; but he cannot leave his bed and there might be danger to one in the service of King James cross- ing the threshold of the house where he is con- cealed. Mr. Wadsworth is too bitter an enemy of royalty." Without further detaining her, Synnot now handed her the hundred pound note for which she had asked the previous evening, then taking her hand, pressed it to his lips.   274      ROMANCE OF THE It happened that just at this moment Mad Adams threw open the door of the Bunch of Grapes, and as his eyes fell on the affectionate couple, a sav- age look passed over his countenance. He ground his teeth and wondered how Captain Joe had been so easily deceived; " and yet," thought the honest fellow, "I almost insulted him at first because he did not seem to admire the girl. Oh, I have },Ien deceived too. Miss Lydia, Miss Lydia CHAPTER XLIII. NINE o'clock had struck; on the green the sixty troopers were marshalled in line; while the mem- bers of the General Assembly (whose power as a legislative body, however, had been dissolved by Sir Edmund) were gathered in front of the Bunch of Grapes where his Excellency had passed the night, anxious to pay him their parting respects. Lydia, her eyes moistened with tears, had just bid good-bye to her father, and with Goody Garlic was now waiting in front of Wadsworth's house for the moment to depart. No other being on earth but the regicide's daughter could have persu- aded the old maid ,to undertake such a journey ; vi- sions of wolves, slippery roads, broken girths and"   CHARTER OAR.      275 fractious horses had haunted her brain during the night, and in one of her dreams she had seen a mons- trous bear trying to pull down a cedar tree, on which she had taken refuge, But this time she was not to ride Jack, the poor beast being too old for any further service, and at the present moment we find her perched on the most gentle animal which Captain Synnot has been able to procure and which an orderly has just brought to the door. Between Prudence and Charity the most endear- ing expressions were passing. "Forgive me," the latter exclaimed, " for any cross word I may have spoken. Keep the girl's heart pure and innocent. Although things haven't turned out as I hoped they would, yet I can't believe she'll refuse my Joe when he pops the question, which he'll do some time or other. He's been backward and has acted very, very strange, while she's never been willing to own the covenant and has never lost a chance to scoff at stocks and whipping-posts; yet they think alike about the independence of the colonies. She has a great soul and ought, indeed, to be Joe's wife! Be sure Prudence, and have her curls cut off again; try and have it done at New London or some other stopping place on the way. Let it not be said in Boston that a maiden of this godly town was given over to vanity. And so, dear friend, the Lord will one day reward you."   276      ROMANCE OF THE As she finished speaking, the bugle sounded, and waving farewell to her, the goodwife and Lydia proceeded to join the cavalcade on the green. In- stead of holding the reins, however, Miss Garlic buried her fingers deep in her horse's mane, and gave unmistakable evidence of the fear she had of being tossed out of the saddle. Lydia, on the con- trary, sat erect, and but for her companion would have dashed off at full speed; while Puritan arched his neck and youi could tell by the way he snorted and pranced that he was in just the mood to show off his powers. "It may be my last chance," thought Wads- " worth, who; had stood an instant with a heart throb- bing as if it would burst, watching the girl as she left him; " aye, it may be my last chance. No, no, I'll not risk waiting until she returns; dear knows when that may be; now   or never I will speak my love. Nancy is not present, and what if she were? no, no, I will not be stopped again. Increase Mather, great and holy man though he be, is not gifted with infallible wisdom. I'll brave his counsel. With this he hastened after Lydia, and thrusting his trembling arm through the bridle drew Puritan to the other side of the road, and as far as possible from Goody Garlic. "Miss Goffe," he began, in a voice which seemed to come from the deepest depths of his soul, "you   CHARTER OAK.      2" are going away; you leave me alone and in dark- ness! I shall care for nobody when you are ab- sent; you have been more than sunlight to me! Oh Lydia! I love you, I love you more than tongue can tell! Have I any place in your heart? Have I cherished a vain illusion?" This declaration, although not unexpected, placed the girl in a position the embarrasment of which she could not conceal. "Mr. Wadsworth," she replied, after a brief pause and looking full at him, "If the esteem of one like me be worth having, you have it indeed. I honor you for your devotion -to the liberties of Connecticut. To you I am indebted for affording my aged parent a comfortable home. Oh, Mr. Wadsworth, in all things save one, you can com- mand and I will obey; but if you ask me for my hand and heart I must say No. My words may grieve you, it gives me no less pain to speak them. Let us part friends; oh yes, shake hands, there are other girls besides me in the world-there is one especially who thinks you are above all other men, who I do believe worships you. In her you would find a helpmate indeed and a comforter. Nancy Clark is not a woman such as we meet every day. And when you have taken her to your home, still keep in view the great object of your life. Brighter days are coming; cheer up. You here, I in Bos-   , o   v  ROMANCE OF THE ton, will both labor for the same glorious end-In-' dependence!" Wadsworth--who while she had gone on speak ing had gazed in ler face with the expression of one listening to his death sentence-did not open his lips when she had finished--his arm slipped through the bridle, and spurning the hand which was stretched towards him, he turned away with a look which haunted the regicide's daughter all the days of her life. The bugle which was sounding, the crisp autumn air, even the handsome officer whom she saw gal- loping towards her Scould not at once raise her spirits; and often during that day, and the next, and the next, she would murimur, "Poor Wads- worth, poor Wadsworth!" Henry Synnot who had expected to find her a little downcast after parting with her father, sainted her, then  instead of engaging in conversation, wheeled his horse alongside of the goodwife and left the girl for awhile to her own meditations. Lydia did not heed the staring eyes turned upon her as she passed along the street. Mad Adams scowled; the  tall woodman, who had been so anxious to have one of her curls to hang on his pike, gaped and shook his. head; Mr. Plilbrick spread out his hands and exclaimed, " who'd a thought it! who'd a thioulght it!"And Mrs. Phil-   CHARTER OAK.       279 brick responded; "I'd a thought it! I'd a thought it! she's none too good for such company. A girl who never but once showed herself at meeting, who always took the part of the godless widow Bull, is better away than in our midst. Already she has done harm enough; my Dorothy ain't the cherub she used to be, and Faith Genness always has a crying spell now, whenever her mother clips her hair. Oh, Mr. Philbrick, let us rejoice that this beautiful, but headstrong and mysterious creature is about to leave us. She appeared among us sud- denly, I never could make out where she had for- merly dwelt, and now indeed she's in fit company. So don't say ' who'd a thought it,' for I thought it all along, I knew that she belonged to Beelzebub. Her husband made no response, but kept his hands spread out until the girl had crossed the bridge, and was hidden from view; then gazing around he wondered where the ruling elder could be. "Wherever he is," thought Mr. Philbrick, "I'm sure he's as much tiaken aback as I am. Oh what a pity, what a pity that such a brave, handsome ]ass should be willing to sell herself to Andros! I knew by the way his Excellency stared at her last evening in the court chamber, that he had con- ceived an unholy passion; but I did notthink she'd sell herself; no, no, I did not." While Dorothy's worthy parent was thus solilo-   280      ROMANCE OF THE quizing, Lydia suddenly found her course arrested by the gaunt figure of Israel Barebones, who withl both hands had seized the horse's bit. "Stop, young woman," he cried; " stop, you go not from our midst without a word of advice. You are one born to do much good or much evil. You fear not the point of a sword; but for you, I might have been slaughtered yesterday in the court cham- ber. Preserve ever the same undaunted spirit, and in all things defend the religion of the Puritans as yesterday you defended me. Abhor that flag with the cross upon it--" here he turned and pointed towards the standard bearer, who was riding a short distance ahead; "bow not to the Bishop, whom I hear Sir Edmund is expecting; pray for strength, the temptations in your path will be great. Since you came to Hartford, you have disappointed almost everybody; but I cherish the belief, that it was only your youth and buoyant spirits which caused you to revolt against our church laws. You go hence for a noble purpose. Mr. Wads- worth this morning told me all about it, and I much regret that I have not had time to spread the news among the people, who are now so scandal- ized at the company you are in. May the Al- mighty vouchsafe you a triumph! and if we recover the lost school land, and other things of which we have been deprived, without the shedding of blood,   CHARTER OARK.      281 it will be thanks to you, young woman. Now fare- well, and my blessing go with you." At these words, Lydia bowed her head-as much perhaps to spite Governor Andros, who was riding close by, as out of reverence for the venerable speaker. "Aye sir," she replied, "I have disappointed vou. The fire and brimstone sermon, which I heard when, I first arrived in Hartford, so filled me with disgust that I could not go to meeting again. I abhor your ducking-stools and whipping- posts; but as little will I like the rule of a Bishop, judging by the acts of Laud and other mitred preachers of the gospel. Now, sir, good-bye, and thanks for your blessing; you are not without virtue, and if you never performed another kind act, what you have already done for the widow Japheth will give you favor in the eyes of the Lord. Once more good-bye!f With this, Lydia pursued her way, glancing a moment at Sir Edmund, to see how he took her interview with the ruling elder, and rather pleased at the scowl on his face. "She's not abashed by my presence," whispered his Excellency to Henry Synnot; " and had I pricked my sword against that old fool's ribs, I verily believe she'd have tried to do battle with me as she did with the soldier yesterday. By the King, was there ever such a beautiful creature!   282      ROMANCE OF THE Many a Princess might go wild with jealousy And how gracefully she sits the palfrey, which seems to know that it has no coward on its back." "Aye, your Excellency, she is most bewitching,- returned the officer, " and the steed is worthy of the rider. It belongs to the Narragansett breed and was given her by the 'Captain of the Hartford train-band." "Ah! By Joseph Wadsworth, about whom Mr. Clark used to write? Well, right glad am I that he is willing to part with his horse, which doubt- less was of good service when he' travelled from town to town organizing an insurrection. I take it as a sign that in future the rebel means to stay at home and think more of the plow than of the sword. But, Captain, what is this maiden's name? I cannot tell you how she impresses me, and I heartily thank you for having prevailed on her to join Lady Andros. In fact, were she not de- scended from the low born herd who came over in- the tMayflower, I might say to you, 'there's a chance for a wife.'" Here Andros laughed. Without taking part in the merriment his aid-de- camp informed him that the young woman's name was Lydia Garlic, that she was firmly attached to her native land, and thoroughly imbued with the principles which Wadsworth advocated. "She consented to go to Boston," he added   CHARTER OAK.       283 "only when I had assured her that she might, by so doing, recover the school land which you took away from the people of Hartford." "Well, I'll try and not disappoint the lass," pur- sued the governor, who, in his heart, had no inten- tion of keeping his word. "I'm very glad you have discovered what her feelings are in regard to political matters, and I shall so manage my tongue as not to give offence. Do you know it would not surprise me if she were the one who snatched the charter from the table last evening." While they were thus conversing, Lydia and the goodwife had allowed their horses' pace to slacken, and had fallen a little in the rear, for the girl did not fancy being stared at by Andros, and this posi- tion they maintained until they had almost reached the c-abin of the widow Bull. The girl then rode up to Synnot, and slipping into his hand the letter, which contained the money and seal, asked him to deliver it to the young woman whom he saw stand- ing in the doorway of the house they were ap- proaching. "Tell her," added Lydia, "that it is for her father." The officer gladly obeyed, and drawing near the threshold, made a sign to Nancy, who was crying bit- terly and shrank back as she saw him approaching. "He's got something for you," said Mrs. Bull; " don't be afraid."   284      ROMANCE OF THE "Yes," said Synnot, delivering the letter, and at the same time telling her that it was-for Mr. Clark. "What harm do you think I would do you?" "Well, civil as your speech is at this moment, you're capable of doing the devil's work," exclaimed the widow, folding her enormous arms and looking him full in the face-while the tarred rope dangled from her apron. ( You red coats are as bad in one way as the Philistines are in another. They've tried to make me go to Zion by a road I ain't willin' to follow, while your troopers, last night, robbed my hen roost and kept me awake for hours and hours with their blasphemous songs. I'd heerd cussin' afore that, but never quite so strong." "A virago!" thought Synnot, as he rejoined Sir Edmund, who was bursting with laughter. "Yes, a virago, if there ever was one." "A pretty looking woman to bandy words with, Captain," exclaimed his Excellency. "Ha, ha! I've not seen such a hurre piece of flesh since I left merry old England-ha, ha, ha!" Lydia did not speak a  word to Nancy as she rode past the cabin, but threw her a kiss, then waving her hand, said something to the widow. The latter, however, was too much engaged to pay any attention to her-Sir Edmund's remarks had reached the dame's ears and she was brandishing the rope, shaking her fist like a mad woman, and   CHARTER OAK.       285 swearing by all the sharks that if he would only take off his armor she would dust his coat as she had once dusted the garment of Israel Barebones. Having now got beyond the last house, the regi- cide's daughter drew her palfrey closer to the good- wife's and began unfolding the reason of her sud- den departure from the settlement. Prudence lis- tened without interrupting her until she had finished, then in a voice full of emotion, asked if nothing but a desire to serve the people of Hartford had moeved her to take such a step. "Tell me, child, are you not drawn from your poor father bv yonder gallant, whom I recognize as the same that rescued you from the wolves?" Chagrined to think that her old nurse could be- lieve her capable of abandoning her parent in order to follow Synnot, Lydia did not immediately an- swer the question-a tear for a moment glistened in her eye-she felt indignant, as well as hurt. "No," she said, at length, " for no reason except to do good to the people whom I have just left, am I in Andros' company. Oh, Prudence, how could you suspect such a thing?" "But do you not love yonder officer?" continued tie goodwife. ."' Child, speak out, tell me all that is in your heart, so that I may be able to shield you from dangers against which I must be power- less if left in the dark. Let me know the whole   286.      ROMANCE OF THE truth-oh, Lydia, beware; remember your assum- ed name!"' "I would rather converse on some other subject, nurse," said Lydia, firmly, yet with respect. " fy heart is sad enough; do not add to its grief by doubting my word." Prudence gave a sigh, then bowing her head, be- gan a prayer, while the girl, left to her own medi- tations, thought of many things-of her home in the wilderness, where, although her life lhad been monotonous enough, she still had passed happy days; of the widow Japheth; of Nancy, who would miss her so much; of her dear father, who, in his dreams, would often find himself in Boston; while ever and anon there would rise before her a hag- gard face, on which many a soul-struggle had left its mark'; and Lydia could not help wondering what the soul must be like which could give to mortal eye such a reflection of its agony. If Wads- worth's countenance, the mirror of his immortality, could take such an expression, what must that por- tion of him be like which was never to die? Would it carry forever and ever that stamp of despair? No, that could not be; Wadsworth, she felt, sure, was a good man, and such a face would not be seen in heaven.  Suddenly, while these thoughts were passing through her mind, the goodwife uttered a   CHARTER OAK.       287 s lriek, and the girl, in alarm, asked what was the matter. "My dream book, my dream book!" exclaimed the dame. "I've left it behind, and Charity 'll find out that I fibbed, for I didn't read her all my dreams!" "Calm yourself, nurse," replied Lydia, "I forgot to tell you that I have it in my pocket." "Oh, indeed; what a dear darling creature you are; Lydia, there's nobody like you in the world!" Returning the goodwife's affectionate words with -a smile, the girl drew from her pocket an ancient manuscript, which the old maid clutched, and in her joy could not refrain from pressing to her lips. But in another moment, the dame's eyes turned in their sockets, her jaw fell, and Lydia, believing that she was taken with a fit, seized her arm. "Mercy, mercy, mercy!" cried Prudence-; "It's Charity's dream-book you've brought away, not mine. Oh! dear, oh dear, oh dear!" It took the old lady some time to recover her self-possession after this dreadful discovery; then with Lydia's assistance, the manuscript was un- rolled, and she began examining its contents, which before long brought a grin to "her face. "Ha, ha, ha!" she said, "it's a fair exchange-   288      ROMANCE OF THE one fib against another; here's a dream that she never read to me; ha, ha, ha!" It would be difficult to describe the intense de- light, which this discovery caused Miss Garlic. "A fair exchange, she again exclaimed, when she had got to the end, and thrusting the book into her pocket, " a fair exchange, is no robbery. How jolly it is to find out other people's fibs, ha, ha, ha!" In the meanwhile, Andros had gone-on convers- ing with his aid-de-camp, and speaking in a more serious manner than was his habit of the con-+ dition of the colonies. He expressed wonder at the progress which the people had made in self- government, and declared his belief that but for the high-handed measures he had adopted the scheme of Joseph Wadsworth might have been realized. He likewise expressed satisfaction at not having met Nathaniel Clark. "The fellow," said he, "would doubtless have importuned me for some more favors; he must rest satisfied with the school land." His Excellency, then went on to discourse about Increase Mather, who he thought might attempt to escape to England, and lay before the King the state of affairs in America. "But I shall keep a sharp watch, and he'll be cun- ninger than a  fox, if he eludes my vigilance."   CHARTER OAK.       289 Then lowering his voice, "there is only one thing to be feared, and that is revolution at home." "It can hardly be doubted," returned Synnot, "that the people of these colonies would then make an attempt to recover what they have lately lost. Yet, I do not believe the majority would strike for independence; if they enjoyed local self-government, very few would desire a separation from the mother country." "You may be right," pursued the governor. "One thing, however, leads to another, and if our royal master were to allow them to manage their own affairs, might not their views become in time more extended? Ambition would be aroused, and then Joseph Wadsworth might not find him- self without followers." "I must beg leave to differ with your Excel- lency,'" said Synnot, speaking w- ith earnestness. "Let the freemen hold town-meetings, impose their own taxes, and keep their lands without being forced to prove the titles, and I declare my belief that no, change in England would make them re- volt.," The officer's tone was such that Sir Edmund frowned; then with a scornful smile, "Methinks," lie exclaimed, " the air of the new World produces marvellous changes. Did I not know you, Captain, as well as I do, I might imagine you were not with-   290      ROMANCE OF THE out sympathy for these low-born fanatics." Here the conversation .ended, Henry Synnot being afraid that if it went on he might let slip some remark which would arouse the suspicion of Sir Edmund as to his loyalty. During the day, Andros managed to engage in a pleasant chat with Lydia; and the knowledge which the girl displayed of history, her acquain- tance with the affairs of Europe, the correctness with which she spoke her native tongue, increased his admirationi for her; nor did he administer the slightest reproof when she reminded him that as a- reward for the-services she was going to render Lady Andros, he must give back to the town of Hartford the land which he had wrongfully taken away. Her company made him, far more cheer- ful than he had been while coming from Boston, and more than once the gloomy forest which lined the road the whole distance, rang with laugh- ter, caused by her witty remarks. At Provi- dence, Goody Garlic ventured to suggest the pro- priety of again shortening her locks; but Lydia positively refused to let the scissors go near them, and dismissed the goodwoman with a wave of the hand, which savored a little of haughtiness. But sadder yet was the old -urse's heart the following morning, when on entering the girl's chamber she   CHARTER OAK.  found her seated before a mirrtr, engaged in weav- ing through her hair a string of pearls. , Alas," she sighed, "Beelzebub hath his arms around thee, Lydia ; pray, child, pray!"At any other time, the regicide's daughter might have laughed at this over anxiety about her soul; but now she seriously told Prudence that she was no longer a child, and that if a gentleman like Henry Synnot chose to make her a present, it was no smin to accept it. During the rest of the journey, which lasted a week, the goodwife scarcely suffered the regicide's daughter out of her sight. Yet she did not trouble her with any exhortations. "Dangers are thickening around my darling," she would say. "Vanity, like a weed is shooting up and overshadowing her virtues; but I will pray for her, I will pray; all grace cannot yet have been driven from her soul." At length, to Prudence's unspeakable joy, they arrived in Boston, and here let us bid farewell to the dame and her youthful charge;- many months will pass, before we meet them again. CHAPTER XLTV. THE: winter of 1687-88 was long remembered by the people of New England-, for its severity, and   292      ROMANCE OF THE the mail which Andros had established to go once a month between Boston and Hartford* was very irregular. But whenever the postman did arrive, Nancy Clark was sure to get a long letter from her friend, describing her life in Boston, the assemblies shel attended, the people whom she danced with, etc; and at the end of the letter, Lydia would always ask after Mrs. Bull, and the widow Japheth. What she revealed concerning herself did not altogether please the quiet, steady Nancy, who once, but only once ventured to remind her that dancing was not approved by the church. Israel Barebones was never written to; yet, by every mail the regicide's daughter received a missive from him, and she used laughingly to say that the paper smelt of fire and brimstone, Colonel Goffe of course heard from Lydia by every occasion, and it greatly com- forted the old gentleman to know that she was in blooming health and a  favorite with everybody; while (although he had never met him) he got quite a  fondness for Captain Synnot, who was so faithful to the girl as well as honorable in every- thing he said and did. As for the widow Japheth, she was as happy as one bed-ridden could possibly be. The ruling- elder continued to send her gifts without ever leat- *Conn. Rec. III. 393.   CHARTER OAK.       293 ting her know the name of her benc'hactor; her children had never been so warmly clad as this winter; and Bob -the robin enjoyed himself in a new and much larger cage, the work of the same hand which had constructed the improved ducking- stool. During the long evenings Mrs. Bull, who really seemed afraid of nobody, would come and read to her the copy of Shakespeare which Lydia, true to her promise, had contrived to send by the postman--and while she would declare that she liked the Tempest best because it reminded her of the Polly Ann, Mrs. Japheth would vow that there was nothing so good as Midsummer Nights' Dream'. "And I'm sure," the latter -would add, "I'm sure if my old man were here he'd agree with me that Puck was the jolliest fellow that ever lived." Of Mr. Clark, let us inform the reader, that he had duly received the letter purporting to come from Sir Edmund, and as we may imagine was in the highest spirits; in fact the confidential, friendly way in which his Excellency had addressed him, the hundred pounds and the seal with the initials upon it had well nigh turned his head. Bitterly did he regret that he was not able to write and thank the Governor for such favors; and there were times when he would think- of his daughter and wish that she were living with him in order to   294      ROMANCE OF THE act as his amanuensis. But he did not feel to- wards her as a parent should have felt. The reve- lation which she had made to Lydia of what he knew concerning the regicide had been an unpar- donable offence, and although Nancy had been away from him now several months, his irritation against her was as great as the evening when he had turned her out of doors. The young woman would often put herself in his path, wander through his corn-field, watch by the gate; in fact she did everything she possibly could to attract his notice, but all?n vain-he was inexorable. And now to speak a few words of Dorothy Phil- brick and Faith Genness, in whom the reader may have taken some little interest since the ruling- elder had christened them the Cherubs, we will merely relate that, during the summer of 1688, they were discovered among the huckleberry bushes --Tom kissing Dorothy, and the lad with the moon face taking the same liberty with Faith. Deep was the groan which escaped the breast of Israel Bare- bones as he watched them sinning. The young folks heard him, and without daring to look behind, ran off as fast as they could; but Israel, who had taken a short-cut got home before them, and when the culprits arrived they found a rod in pickle which they long remembered. Tom and the lad with the moon face, besides being flogged till the blce   '  rr   CHARTER OAK.      '295 blood trickled down their heels, were made to rise one hour earlier than usual for six months after their transgression, while Faith and Dorothy were put on bread and water for the same number of weeks, and, moreover, sentenced never again to be called Cherubs. During the twelvemonth which followed Lydia's departure a great change came over Simon Adams, who more than once neglected to close the tavern at the nine o'clock bell. He likewise grew careless about the quantity of liquor he dealt out to his guests, until having paid fine after fine the select- men deprived him of his license.  But this was not the only misfortune which befell him. The rul- ing-elder, whose patience had at length become exhausted, demanded one day to know why the cages for sabbath-breakers had not arrived, There- upon Adamns broke into a passion, abused the church, and even went so far as to shake his fist at the old man. The consequence was that he was a second time deprived of the title of MR. But can we wonder at Adams' conduct? . He firmly believed that the strict customs of the Puritans had changed the very nature of Wadsworth, who instead of being cheerful and fond of company, had been foi years past gloomy and morose ; while Lydia, if she had not been disgusted by thi6 sermon she had heard at the meeting-house shortly after her arri-   296t'      EO3ANCE, OF 'TE val in Hartford, and by the ducking of tIhe widoe Bull, might have lookled witl more favor on th, captain of the train-bancl, and perhaps become hi wife.; "and then," Adams would sigh, ", how differ ently it might all have turned out, how differeutly!' But Wadsworth, what of him?' Ask this ques, tion of the people of Hartford and observe low they will shake their heads. Be it known, reader, that the very morning after Lydia Goffe had set out for Boston, the Captain of the train-band had found, on entering his study, tihe map of Amrerica unrolled and with a stone pressing down each csO- ler; ye t wlen he had retired for the night he had left it in the drawer of the table. To see it ths clid not astonish him, however; the same mysterious power which had brought it might have cole dur- ing the still hours to make, perlaps, some cofree- tions. S "But do my eyes tell the truth?" he exclaimed, bending over the parcllment and  clasping his hands. "Good God,'tis cut in four partsi ce- stroyed!"As he stood thus witl dismay on lis coulntenance, he glanced at his Bible, whch was likewise open onl the table-and across the page lay his dagger with the point turned towards the fol- lowing verses from the Prophet Ezekiel: Seeing he despised the oathl by breaking the covenant, when lo, he had given his hand, and hath done all thes e things, ho shall not escape.    .hn   CHARTER OAK.       297 "Therefore thus saith the Lord God-: As I live, surely mine oath that he hath despised, and my covenant that he hath brok- en, even it will I recompense on his own head." When Wadsworth had begun to read he felt cer- tain it was his own doom he was going to pro- nounce. Yet he did not flinch; no, to the last word of the nineteenth verse he read. But when he had finished he seized the dagger and driving it down through the sacred volume pinned it to the table. "Why -was I born?" he cried, " why was I born?" then rushing out of the house he went- where? Aye, this was what no man in the settle- ment, save one, could tell. His aunt Charity pined away with grief; Israel Barebones declared it was the strangest event which had ever occurred in those parts; while the widow Japheth would say to herself, "I knew it would come to this-aye, poor Nancy Clark--the Lord was patient, but He hath taken revenge for her at last." But Simon  Adams, faithful friend as well as trusty scout, knew whither his chief had- fled, and would often visit Lydia Goffe's old home in tle forest and speak comforting words to the life-weary man. To all he said, however, there came the same responsee: "Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in?  My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts of my heart."* *Job,   298      ROMANCE OF THE i-ere let us leave poor Wadsworth. If he does not pray himself, there is one who remembers him with every throb of her heart. When she opens her eyes in the morning it is of him she first thinks -and at night, as sleep steals over her, his image is the last to fade from her mind. More than once has she importuned Adams to tell what he kno ws about the Captain of the train-band; but Simon will not open his lips on the subject, except to say that he is alive-which piece of information, small as it is, brightens for a moment Nancy's pensive face.- It was perhaps well that Wadsworth had taken up his abode in the wilderness, for the state of the country from the autumn of 1687 to the spring of 1689 was gloomy indeed, and to have remained in the settlements and witnessed the full effects of An- dros' tyranny would only have deepened his sorrow. The people were everywhere ground down by op- pression, and the ray of hope which cheered them when the news spread about that Increase Mather had escaped the vigilance of Sir Edmund and set sail for England, soon faded away. His mission to the King bore no fruit, and the spirits of the colo- nists sank lower than before. There was one man in Hartford, however, whose countenance indicated unceasing joy. His tenure of the school land had been undisturbed; his second crop of corn was even better than the first; and Nathaniel Clark   CHARTER OAK.       299 believed the hour was near when Sir Edmund would send troops to arrest the regicide. "And then," he would say with a chuckle, " then will come my great reward-from my sovereign's hands I will re- ceive it." At length the people seemed to grow quite accus- tomed to the sway of Andros, and would shrug their shoulders whenever Mad Adams-who, having 'lost his license to keep the Bunch of Grapes, had resumed his wanderings through the different towns --would chide them for their despondency and tell them that their sufferings would some day come to an end. As time wore on the regicide became more and more infirm, and the chances of his ever leaving his bed were so few that Adams began seriously to think of sending word to Lydia that she must re- turn. Indeed, what need was there of her staying away any longer?  Her mission had proved a failure, for Andros had not kept his promise. Ac- cordingly, after holding a consultation with Wads- worth, he set out on his journey. But some one else besides him took the road for Massachusetts. By having his ears wide open during the day, and by eavesdropping at night, Mr. Clark had kept himself thoroughly posted in regard to Colonel Goffe; and having become alarmed at his illness, and fearing lest he might die and be buried in some secret spot,   300      ROMANCE OF THE he had determined to warn Andros that there was no time to lose in making him a prisoner. It was with this object in view that Nancy's father left Hartford within a few hours of Simon Adams. CHAPTER XLV. ADAMS reached Boston the second day of April, 1689, while Mr. Clark did not arrive until the fourth. Without losing an hour (and he was tired enough dear knows to have taken some, rest) the former keeper of the Bunch of Grapes proceeded to the Governor's mansion, determined at all haz- ards to have an interview with Lydia, and tell her of her father's failing health. Knowing his pas- sionate temper Wadsworth had cautioned him to be very discreet, and should he have occasion to address Henry Synnot, to do it respectfully and above all to makl- no threats, which would only re- sult in bringing himself into trouble. But during his solitary journey Adams had done nothing but brood over the past; he had recalled the visits which he had paid Lydia in the wilderness; how fromnt childhood to womanhood she had been in his eyes the destined bride of the chief of the Hart- ford train-band; and although, as we have remarked   CHARTER OAK.       301 in the previous chapter, Adams attributed the failure of his cherished plans to the harsh religion of thie Puritans-which had changed Wadsworth's very nature and made the girl shrink from a being so stern and morose-yet he could not find it in his heart to forgive the British officer for having per- suaded her -to leave her aged parent. "Aye, let them talk as they will," he would say-"Charity and Wadsworth and Nancy Clark are all mistaken; the school land may have had something to do with it; but I say it's love that made her leave' Hartford. Oh, Lydia Goffe! Lydia Goffe!" While he was on his way to the Governor's house, he' met Christian, who we have omitted to tell the, reader, had followed his mistress to Boston; and although at one time, Adams had not reposed much confidence in the Pequot, yet the- skilful manner in which the youth had decoyed Nathaniel Clark to Windsor, eighteen months before, and kept him there during Sir Edmund's stay in Hartford, had dissipated all suspicion, and now he welcomed hm with open arms. But Simon's face became grave again when he heard that Lydia had gone on a visit to Plymouth, in the company of Lady Andros and Captain Synnot, and might not be back for several days. The honest fellow could not but believe there was danger in delay. Ever since the memorable 31st of October, 1687, he had   "ROMANCG OF TIE scarcely once allowed Nancy's fathler to go out of his sight--fearing lest this cunning partisan of Sir Edmund, who he knew was keeping watch over the house where Lydia's parent lay concealed, might discover how he had been 'duped, when of course he would speed to Boston and reveal it to the ty- rant. "Even now," muttered Adams, as he turned and left the Pequot, Nat Clark may be on the road; God help us if he meets the Governor."' For two days Simon anxiously awaited Lydia's return, and so constantly did he linger about the Governor's mansion, that the sentinel on duty there was more than once tempted to ask him his busi- ness.  He  met the Pequot several times again, but did not speak to him, being very much out of  humor, and'people remarked what a fierce look he had. "Delay is dangerous," he would repeat, "delay is dangerous, and when the girl does get back to Captain Joe's, it may be too late. Oh what a fool I was, not to have my own will. What's  the difference between one man facing another, and sticking a poignard in his ribs, and a train- band fighting a  troop of Britishers? It's blood- shed either way. Aye, if I'd been allowed to kill that villain. Clark, and this officer, and the tyrant Andros, everything would have gone right. I could have done it once easily enough. Where   CHAR'tER OAK.      303 would have been the harm? I'd only have taken a short cut, whereas Captain Joe has been lvboring to attain his end by a round-about way, f,nd one which would have cost far more lives. Ncw, when it's too late, he finds his scheme falling to pieces. One arm like this, one dagger such as I carry, would have been worth all the train-bands on which Wadsworth once placed his hopei for inde- pendence F" The-.. third morning after his arrival in Boston, Adams had taken his usual stand to watch for Lydia, who, the Pequot had informed him, had re- turned late the previous evening from Plymouth. His angry mood was still upon him, and he scowled at everybody that passed the Governor's gate. Suddenly after he had been waiting at his post about Lhalf an hour, he heard the tramp of many feet approaching, and turning round beheld a crowd of men and boys rushing up the street. They were without arms, and appeared very much excit- ed. Presently they reached the spot where he was standing, and tossing into the air their hats and caps, yelled with all their, might, "Hurrah for William of Orange! hurrah!"Then obeying a signal from their leader, they continued their way through the town, and Adams could hear them at frequent intervals giving vent to the joy they felt at the coming of a deliverer. Andros, who had   tvY     ROMANCE OF THE heard the shouting, immediately called his wife and whispered the dreadful news-at the same time he cheered her witfh the hope that it migYllt 1be only rumor, while Captain S ynnot hastenefd to tell it to Lydia, whom he met leaving her apartment accompanied by goodwife Garlic. Then begging the girl to take his arlm he hurried xith her into the street, saying as they welt, " oh, Lydia, our - happy hour has come; something tells me the news is true--King James is no longer king." They had scarcely reached the main entrance of the house when the regicide's daughlter gave a start, and pointed at a rough-looking individual, who was sullenly moving away at the command of  the guard. 'Tis Adams," she cried, withdrawin g her arm  i and hastening towards her old friend. "Yes, yes, 'tis Adams!"In another roment she was by his   side. "Oh, Simon, how glad I am to see you," she exclaimed; then dropping her voice, " how is dear father?"  "Humph! 'tis on his account I am here, M3iss *Lydia," replied Adams. "If ever you expect to lay eyes on him again, you musn't tarry any longer in Boston. Methinks you'd hatve grown weary ere this of playing the butterfly-little good have you done the freemen of Hartford. The school   CHARTER OAK.      U'i land is still in the possession of Nathaniel Clark, and  " "Oh yes, yes," returned Lydia, pressing her hands to her brow, "I have been deceived; I acknowledge it. But I did my best; God who reads our hearts knows that in thought, word and deed I have been true to New England. But tell me, is father really so ill?" "He is; and you must make haste, if you wish to get his blessing ere he exchanges worlds." For about a minute the girl remained as if stupe- fied. "Oh, if he dies before I get to him!" she exclaimed in a wailing tone, -"I'll never forgive myself-never, never." "If he does," responded Adams, "'twill be the fault of him who persuaded you to leave the old gentleman. And here is the coxcomb approach- ing'"-as Simon spoke he put his hand on his dagger. "Aye, but for him you would not have broken the heart of the noblest man in Connecticut. But I will avenge Captain Joe; I will, by Hea. ven!" "Good God, do not speak thus," exclaimed Lydia, looking up and clasping her hands: a no, you shall not wreak vengance on Henry Synnot. Take my life rather than-his." "I can wait," muttered Adams, with a bitter   306      ROMANCE OF THE. smile, and at the same time turning on his heel, "my message is delivered; I can wait.  But sooner or later by Heaven-" here he glanced back without finishing the sentence, but there was that in his countenance, which caused the girl's cheek to blanch. "Who is that fellow? methinks I have seen him before," exclaimed Synnot, as soon as he reached Lydia's side, and at the same time partly drawing his sword. "You look troubled; who is he? what has he done?" ";' He comes from Hartford, and tells me father is very, very ill, and that I must leave--at once, if I expect to see him again before he dies." "Well, the fellow is bold and merits your thanks; did you observe how determined he was not to let the guard drive him from the door?" Here Synnot heard Andros calling, and excus- ing himself, hastened to join the Governor. "What news did that fellow bring, who was talk- ing to Miss Lydia a moment ago?" inquired his Excellency in a nervous tone., "Oh, no news," replied the officer; " at least he said nought about what the people were shouting." "Well, the young lady's actions seemed to indi- cate that he had toll her something of import; I was watching from the window above." "Yes, she looks pale and anxious," remarked   307 CHATE  R OAK307. Lady A  ldros, coming up and resting h er hand on her husband's   should er. , Perhaps he is fro u Connecticut," pu rsued the Governor, "where doubtless her kinfollk are won- dering how a Puritan lass should have become so attached to my court. 31ayhap they are wishing her to return home. " 'Your -xcellncy has guessed the truth," replied Synnot, whose eye was following Adams, and long- ing for the latter to beout of sight "One of her family is dangerously ill; it would please her much could she return to loartford." "Well, that I leave entirely to her ladyship, an- swered Sir Edm und, glancing at his wife, "who doubtless will see the imprudence of allowing her maid of honor to depart and spread the rumor that James the Second is dethroned. No, no, she had better remain. Neither will it do to let yonder fel- low go back with such news! G o bid him stay; arrest him and have him put in some secure place. Synnot, obeying the order he had received, fol- lowed Adams with a beating heart, and most sin- cerely did he wish that the latter might escape. "(Pray God the news be true," he said to him- self as he hurried along the steet "and that Kin James has been overthrown. All my heart an soul is in the cause of the Prince of Orange; ' wil prove a wiser monarch, ad 3iss Ooffe wil   woUM    R,- IOMANCE OF THE not then refuse to become my bride. Long-live William of Orange!" Had Synnot not been afoot he might hlave over- taken Adams and at least made an attempt to carry out the Governor's order-although there is little doubt that the former keeper of the Bunch of Grapes would have laughed in his face and made good his escape even at the expense of blood; but when the officer was yet fifteen or twenty paces behind, Simon tore loose the bridle of a horse which had been left fastened to a post in the street, then springing into the saddle gave his pursuer another scowling look and galloped off. Synnot had scarcely abandoned the chase when he heard a voice calling, and turning beheld Lydcia running towards him. (" enry i Henry! come back," cried the girl in a  frantic tone. "Adams is mad-even now he might wheel round and fire at you." Scarcely had she uttered these words when she gave a  shriek and pointed at an object ahead of them. "Flee, Henry, flee! lose not an instant," she continued; "yonder comes the traitor Clark. As soon as he and Andros meet you will be arrested Hasten to Hartford; tell the people William of Orange is king; it may rouse them from their lethargy and give them enough spirit to defend my father should Sir Edmund, as I fear he will, des-   CHARTER OAK.       309 patch troops to capture him."  With this she pressed her lover's hand and they were about to separate when a voice. close by induced the officer to tarry a molment. "Rejoiced to meet you, Miss Garlic, rejoiced to meet you," exclaimed Nancy's parent in a defer- ential tone and raising his hat as he' approached. 'Tis more than eighteen months since we laid eyes on one another. But tell me what dreadful news is this the people are shouting?"As he asked the question he turned towards Synnot, who in spite of Lydia's earnest entreaty to flee, was yet lingering by her side. The officer eyed him a moment with a look of supreme contempt, then whispering a word in the girl's ear, hurried off to the Governor's stables, while Lydia at the same instant turned away and hastened back to the mansion, leaving Nancy's fa- thler gaping and staring after her lover. No sooner did she reach the threshold than Pru- dence, who read in her face that some untoward event had happened, stopped her, and asked what was the matter. "Keep no secrets form me, child," she said, "keep no secrets." "Father is dying," answered Lydia, "I received the news fromr Adams, and am going home as soon as possible. I would not have returned here ex- cept to warn you of my speedy departure from   310      ROMANCE OF THEE Boston, and at the same time to destroy some letters, which I do not wish to fall into strangers' hands. When that is done, I am off. You can follow after me in the company of Christian." "May the Almighty spare your dear father's life!" sighed the old nurse, the tears starting to her eyes. "But, child, how you tremble!" "And I have cause to," replied Lydia. "God help me!"Then perceiving Mr. Clark again quite near, she darted up the stairway. In another moment Nancy's father, with un- covered head and a most obsequious look, was greeting Sir Edmund, who, arm-in-arm with his wife, had been promenading up and down the hall, conversin in undertones. "Who is this fellow? I know him not,." mut- tered the Governor. "A shrewd knave, I  judge," whispered Lady Andros; "yet, from his bearing I warrant 'he is loyal; the guard would not have admitted him so readily, if he did not carry some pledge of fidelity to the King. But I  will leave you to discover his business." With this her ladyship turned and fol- lowed after Lydia. "I have traveled- many miles to see your Ex- cellency," were Mr. Clark's first words. "Long live Ling James!" "Go  on and tell your business," returned the   CHARTER OAK.      3" Governor, impatiently. "Doubtless you bring some vague rumor, to confirm what the rabble are drumming in our ears. "I heard them cheering for William of Orange," returned Mr. Clark; " but I attach no importtance to what fools say. What I have to communicate, does not relate to the affairs of the old world." "Well, well, go on and speak your business," exclaimed the Governor. "But hold a moment." Then beckoning to one of the guard, he bade him in a low voice proceed to the fort and warn the com- mandant to use increased vigilance, and have every cannon loaded. He likewise sent word to the Captain of the frigate Rose, to have his ship cleared for action. Having given these instructions, Andros signified to Mr. Clark that he was ready to listen to him. "Your Excellency,'" began Nancy's father-draw- ing himself up as if he felt the importance of what he was about to communicate-"I anm Nathaniel Clark, of Hartford, Connecticut." "Oh, indeed! well, 'tis long since I have had any report from you; you were once a good corre- spondent. But before you explain your silence, let me express thanks for the map which you sent me several years ago, of Hartford and its vicinity, as well as for the general information you gave con- cerning the colony of Connecticut."   UJ L      ROMANCE OF THE "No thanks, your Excellencey, no thanks! I only did my duty to my King in thus serving iis  faithful Governor. Let me rather express my gratitude for the land which you bestowed spo  me, and which has yielded bountiful crops. The hundred pounds too, showed your generous heart; while as for the seal, I shall treasure it to the end of my days."    , At these words, Andros stared at the speaker with a look of pity; then shrugging his shoulders, "poor fellow'" he said, half aloud, "his brain is turned. Yet in his foolish speech there may be a glimmer of truth; I certainly lost my private seal when I was in, Hartford." At this remark Mr. Clark rubbed his forehead. What does it mean?" he asked himself.  "I   i taken for a madman! Has not the news of a revolution in ungland rather turned the head of ; his Excellencey? Alas! I fear so." Then assuring Sir Edmund thfat he was perfectly sane he craved a few minutes' audience. "I have ridden," he said !" nearly witholu stopping all the way from Hart- ford, and if you refuse to hear what I have to say, I will return home the most disconsolate man in New England; and will, moreover, have to walk  ;e whole distance, for my nag has been stolen."  "Stolen! "Aye, and I fear I may have hard work to re- ixI..,    CHARTER OAK.       313 cover himu. A fellow whom I know- to be in the service of Joseph Wadsworth is the thief." "Indeed! I noticed a suspicious looking man talking with my chief of staff a while ago, and I ordered the Captain to arrest him; so then the knave is likely to escape, unless the officer, who perhaps has gone for his own steed, may overtake him. But now with your story; I will listen, even if you be mad." Concealing his irritation M3r. Clark proceeded as follows: "Obedient to the instructions which your Ex- cellegacy gave me in the letter, written during your stay in Hartford"  at the mention of the word letter Andros again smiled-"I have kept a strict watch on the regicide, and am happy to report that he is still concealed in the house of Joseph Wads- worth, but so ill that I fear he may die before you can arrest him." Here the speaker paused, and drawing the missive and seal from his pocket, handed them to the Gov- ernor. The latter took them ; then with a smile still on his face began to read the letter. But as he went on, his expression changed to one of unfeigned astonishment. "It is very like her handwriting!" he exclaimed, when he cammeto the end. " Yos, very! Where   is Captain Synnot? I-He could unravel this mys- tery at once." "He went off in that direction your Excellency," answered Mr. Clark, pointing up thestreet. " and let me add that he acted very strangely when I met him; while Goffe's daughter, who had just been whispering something in his ear, also turned her back on me." Here Sir Edmund beckoned to an officer, and in a low tone ordered him to arrest Synnot.  "Take a squad of soldiers with you," he said, "and be quick; you will likely find him at the stables--I doubt if he has had time to escape." "Does your Excellency suspect him of treasol?" whispered Mr. Clark, whose sharp ear had over- heard the order.    He certainly was most faithful in bearing dispatches to Governor Treat, and seemed greatly pleased when I told him that I had discovered the regicide's hiding-place." Andros made no reply but shook his head, and for several minutes did not open his lips. " Aye," at length he exclaimed, ' the whole thing< is clear to me    now.  When I   first laid eyes on the girl in the court chamber at Hartford, I saw that she was no common woman.    Doubtless, 'twas shle who snatched away the charter as I  was about to grasp it, and by a   most ingenious forgery has been able to protect her father from  falling into my  power;   for you must know that I never wrote this letter- I could swear it is her handwriting." "Impossible, your Excellency! impossible!" "Well, how did you come by it?" "My own daughter handed it to me as soon as I returned from Windsor, whither I had gone, ex- pecting to join you.;' "Ha! that is why I did not see you when I visited Hartford. And this keeping you out of my sight was of course part of Miss Lydia's scheme to prevent your telling me what you knew about her parent." "But surely Captain Synnot brought your Ex- cellency my message? You knew the discovery I had made?"- "That officer, brought me no message at all concerning the regicide. But I see it now clearer and clearer. Miss Goffe has exercised a strange fascination over him, and he has played me false; but he shall dearly rue it-yes, by Heaven he shall!"Here the Governor stamped his foot. At that moment a lieutenant attached to the frigate Rose- ran past, and when ordered by Sir Edmund to halt and explain his haste, declared that the mob was increasing in numbers, and he thought it prudent to get back to his ship without delay. The Governor ground his teeth. "But for this untoward piece of news about William of   316      ROMANCE OF THE Orange," he said, turning o Clark, "I would have sent you back with a troop of horse, to take the hoary-headed traitor, dead or alive-his capture would be the crowning glory of my administration. But in; the present uncertainity, I dare not lessen the garrison of Boston; therefore return to Hart- ford and continue your vigilant watch over Gofe, and if he dies, be sure and find out where they bury him; while, should the rumor of a revolution in England prove false, I will follow you myself in a very few days." Mr. Clark did not appear altogether pleased with these instructions. What if Adams should spread the news that King James was overthrown? Might not the people be roused to such a pitch of excite- ment, as to make it dangerous for one known as- the shrewdest and most daring partisan of the tyrant, to be seen amongst them? Nancy's father, however, gave no expression to these fears, but quietly asked what might be his reward for having found Goffe. "You shall be knighted," replied Andros; "I have influence at Court, and you shall become Sil Nathaniel Clark." At these words, Nancy's father stood more erect, his heart was nigh bursting with exultation. Yes, he would brave Mad Adams, and all the disaffected spirits of Connecticut to obtain such a reward.   CHARTER OAK.       317 "I will start at once, your Excellency," he ex- claimed, " but where am I to get a horse?" "Go to my stable, and mount the one which you like the best; there are a dozen to choose from." With this Mr. Clark made a low bow, and hav- ing expressed a hope that he would soon see the Governor in Hartford, took leave, while Andros made haste to rejoin his wife. "It was a well-laid scheme," said Lady Andros, after perusing the forged letter; "and yet, I can- not blame Miss Lydia for having used deception when her parent's life was in jeopardy." "' True," returned the knight, "Captain Synnot was -most to blame. It seems he has known of the regicide's hiding-place these eighteen months past. But he will rue it, oh, he will! I have ordered him to be imprisoned." "Poor Henry!" sighed Lady Andros, "I knew him as a page at court, and remember well the pretty Mary Churchill with whom he fell in love; and, by the way, she was a relative of Goffe. I have often wondered who it was Lydia reminded me of; I see it now, it was Mary Churchill. -Poor, poor Henry!" "Poor indeed!" cried her husband. "Do not speak thus tenderly of one who has proved so false; he shall die for this on the gibbet-li-he shall, 'by the Eternal! As for Lydia Gofie, I will holdl   318      ROMANCE OF THE her a hostage for her father. Where is ,she? Make a prisoner, too, of her.' "I fear, Sir, she may be already beyond our reach." "How, has she fled?" "I caught but a glimpse of her darting down the staircase; I called her, but she seemed not to hear me. Yes, I am sure she has left my service. And her steed, you know, is swift as the wind; no animal in your stable could overtake Puritan." While Lady Andros was speaking, the Gover- nor's ire had gradually risen until he could con- tain himself no longer. "Foolish woman!" he cried, beating his forehead, " oh, foolish woman! to let her escape. Why did you not tell me of this before? Shame! Folly! Madness!"  Here he threw open the door, and in a loud voice summon- ed one of the guard. "Mount," he said, "the fleetest horse you can find; take the road to Hart- ford and bring back mny lady's Maid of Honor. Spare not whip nor spur, she must be brought back at all hazards, she must!" The soldier hurried off to obey the order, and Sir Edmund was about addressing his wife again, when the Pequot thrust his head into the room and beckoned to her. "Prudence Garlic," said the youth;"wants to see you."   CHARTER OAK.      319 "(Impudent varlet!" cried the Governor, felling the Indian to the floor. "How dare you thus ad- dress her ladyship? I'll have you taught man- ners!" In less than five minutes Christian was on his way to prison, while Lady Andros, glad of an ex- cuse to escape from her husband, ran upstairs to see what dame Garlic wanted.  She found the goodwoman packing the sheepskin bag, and at the same time crying bitterly. Charity's dream-book was wet with tears, and many of that old maid's visions were so blurred that she would have had hard work to read them, even with her specs. "Why such grief?" inquired Lady Andros in a gentle voice. '"I am truly affected to see you thus." "Bad news from home," sobbed Prudence, " aye, very bad news; and I want to get to Hartford, as soon as possible. But, oh dear, to think of riding so far on a horrid horse. I'm timid--dreadful timid. Would your ladyship be so kind as to procure me a nag that's exceedingly gentle? Let him be lame, and then he'll not run away; yet he must not stumble, and above all have the saddle well fastened on, and if possible let the girth be bran new. I've- known dreadful accidents- come from the girth breaking." Here the dame shoot her head and .murmured, "aye, but for a broker   320      ROMANCE OF THE girth, Miss Lydia might never have left Connecti- cut to enter your service; oh, how mysterious' are the ways of Providence!" Lady AnJLros smiled and assured her that she should have a horse exactly to her taste, and thtat moreover she might travel under charge of the post- man; who was to set out on the morrow for Hart- ford. "'But can I have no other escort?" continued Prudence. "Think of the wild beasts on the lonely high road 'twixt here and there.". "Well, I fear Sir Edmund cannot spare any soldiers. The news of the landing of, William of Orange in England may bring on a revolt against his authority, and he will have need of every trooper." "Alas," sighed the dame, " then I must be con- tent to travel with only the postman and Chris- tian." "The latter has been sent to prison, and so has Captain Synnot," pursued Lady 'Andros; then lowering her tone, " my husband has likewise given orders for Miss Lydia to be arrested. Indeed I hardly think he will even allow you to quit Bos- ton." "Good God, what has happened?" exclaimed Prudence, clasping her hands and turning deadly pale. "Oh Lydia, Lydia, what have you done?   CtHRTERE OAK. -aI s the secret escaped? But your steed is swift; they cannot overtake you ;you YOU wh rea h H art- ford in time to warn the people!"Then sinking - town on the sheepskin bag, " who would have be- lieved it," she cried, " who would have believed it! It all comes from that fatal meeeting in the ores  Oh  , Lord pardon me, I did not do my duty that night         he" Lady Andros pressed her to   explain what she meant, but the goodwife rocking to and fro, sobbed and moaned, and beat her breast until tired of waiting for her to speak, the other left the room. CHAPTER   XLVI. As soon as Lydia reached her own apartment in tile Governor's mansion, she lost not a moment burning the letters which Nancy Clark and Israel Barebones had written to her, then without taking time to change her habit, or even to speak a part- ing word to Goody Garlic, hastened off to the stable. On the way she passed through the mob, hich was till shouting, "Long live William of Orange l" and in the midst of it she recognized the hostler who had the care of her steed. Seeing the fellow in such company, and judging from his ap,   OUMANCE OE THE pearance that he had been imbibing sormevhat freely of liquor, she thought it best to dispense with his services, and accordingly -waving him away, proceeded on to the stable without him. Ne sooner did she enter Puritan's stall, than the noble animal began to paw and neigh, as if he knew she was going to try his mettle; but what increased his restlessness was that her lover's horse, which he nearly always accompanied, had left, the stable. As the girl stroked his mane, she began to reproach herself; ' Oh, why," she said, " didI not urge lenry to mount Puritan.  He then would have been per-  fectly safe from pursuit."  At the same time Lydia wondered where Christian could be; the youth  had always appeared whenever she had needed anything-why was he not there to put on    the saddle?   '.But perhaps," she thought, "he may have accompanied Henry; pray God it may be so, for those two maould be a  match for half a dozen red coats." Great was her relief when in about a quarter of an hour, she found herself beyond the city limits and on the highway to Connecticut,* nor did she draw rein until she had gone full ten miles, when, *The route taken by Lydia G.)ffe- was by way of Dedham, Brentham, and Plainfield to the Weathersfield ferry. It was much shorter than that followed by Aadros.-through Provi- dence and New London.     feeling thirsty, she stopped at a log cabin for a drink of water. The man who drew the bucket from the well, reminded her not a little of Adams; he had the same black twinkling eyes, and shaggy beard, and much too of Simon's curiosity, for as he approached with a gourd full of the chrystal fluid, he eagerly asked -what was the news. "A fellow," said he, "who stopped here about half an hour ago, told me there was likely to be great trouble, as there was a rumor that the King had been de- throned. Is it true?' Having given what little information she pos- sessed on the important subject, Lydia anxiously inquired what sort of person it was who had stopped there. "He was an ugly looking chap with grizly beard like my own," replied- the woodman, "and seemed at first quite irritated, when I told him I kept nothing stronger to drink than water." "Well, did any one else ride past? an officer- or a squad of soldiers?" "Yes, lady, there was -somebody else, but who I really couldn't say; being a piece back in the woods, I only heard the clatter of hoofs." Lydia now continued her journey, her cheek flushed with excitement, and her mind filled with apprehension for her lover, whom she would almost as soon have had fall into the hands of Andros  as   uw4      ROMANCE OF TE  meet Simon Adams in such a wild tract of country as she was passing through. The only thing which cheered her was the hope that Synnot lhad not gone off unarmed, and that the Pequot might be with him. As Puritan flew along she strained her eyes to catch a glimpse of Simon, whom she con- fidently hoped was not far ahead. "If I can only overtake him," she said, " and as- sure him that Henry is on the way to Hartford purposely to warn my father, he would be ap- peased-oh, no, he would not harm Henry if he knew the truth." Puritan seemed conscious that he was travelling back to his old home; never had he carried his fair rider with greater speed, and in her excitement Lydia did not feel fatigue in the least, indeed she might have pursued her journey without making another halt, and perhaps have sunk under the ex- ertion but for the following incident. She hadjust entered a  dense pine forest, when Puritan pricked up his ears and gave a  loud neigh. At once her heart throbbed, Lydia felt sure she was close upon \ Adams, and while she gazed anxiously around, expecting every moment to discorver him emerging out of the woods, she was startled by the sight of a riderless horse galloping towards her-it was her lover's steed, and as the animal wheeled and placed himself beside Puritan, she saw marks of blood on   -CHARTER OAK.      325 the saddle. "Oh, God!" she cried, "I will avenge him! wretched murderer to the ends of the earth, I will dog you, and have blood for blood." Then burying her face in her hands, "Oh, if Christian had only been 'with him!" she sobbed, "Adams would not have accomplished this wicked deed." Presently both horses came to a sudden halt, and began to snort; while right in the middle of the road Lydia perceived a great pool of blood. Just then a voice which she had often heard be- fore, called her by name and who should she see issuing from the pine trees but the widow Bull. "Miss Lydia, Miss Lyvdia!" exclaimed the dame, "how it, cheers me up to meet you once more. But, Miss Lydia, what an awful fright Nancy and I have had; what an awful fright!" "Where is he? is he near? where is he?" 'cried the girl in a frantic voice and not caring even to shake the goodwoman's hand. "Adams," replied the widow, " slung the body across his horse, and went off in that direction," here she pointed towards a narrow opening among the pines. Lydia was about to follow the direction of her finger, when the widow seizing her bridle, warned her that Simon might do her harm if she met him. "No, you must not go," she said, "you must not go; he looked like a wild beast."   vVw     ]OMANCE OF THE "Nothing shall stop me," cried Lydia, springing out of the saddle and darting forward on foot. "Well, well, have your way, you're as stubborn as ever," said the dame, ( but for the Lord's sake do not venture far; stay near enough for me to hear you call, and be quick, for Puritan won't let me hold him long." "I will go with you," said a second voice, which under any other circumstances would have made the regicide's daughter turn and smile; but which she now did not even seem to hear, although it was close by. "Stay calm," continued Nancy, "haste will do no good, he is surely dead." Then inl a low, anxious tone, " tell me," she asked, " did you  see my father in Boston?"  "Yes," replied Lydia abruptly, and not trusting herself to say more of one whom she felt to be the cause of all her woe. Aye, but for Nathaniel Clark she would have had no fear for her parent, nor -would her lover have been obliged to flee from Boston, and been killed by a  half crazy tavern- keeper. "How was he when you saw him?" pursued- Nancy, undeterred by her friend's cold manner. The other made no response, but hastened along heedless of the branches which were cutting her face, nor did she stop an instant to reflect that she had no weapon, and that if she were to meet   CHARTER OAK.       327 Adams, she would be powerless to wreak ven- geance upon him. At length they came to a spot where the underbrush entirely disappeared, and where the pine trees stood further apart as if to- give one a better view of an enormous bowlder whose mossy front, covered here and there with laurel, rose before them to the height of forty feet, and Lydia's heart sickened as she perceived that some of the bushes had been partly torn from their roots, as if by the hand of a person endeavor- ing to ascend. At the base of the rock lay another pool of blood-evidently the murderer had dragged his victim here; on the summit might she not find the body? Without a moment's hesitation the girl drew herself up, and on gaining the top her eye rested on a long, narrow cleft, whose depths she knew must contain the remains of her lost Henry. Trembling she bent down and peering into the cavity, beheld indeed an upturned ghastly face ; but it was not Synnot, it was Nancy's father. "Oh God! I thank Thee! I thank Thee! Hiea- venly spirits rejoice with me!" she cried, "rejoice!" Then overcome with ,emotion she sank down on the rock. In another moment her friend was by her side. Lydia's joyful exclamation had found a quick response in Nancy's heart, who, like herself, was crying out, "God be thanked--yes, Heavenly spirits rejoice with us," and as the young woman   328      ROMANCE OF THE gave vent to her joy she cast her eyes into the cleft. Presently a wild shriek rang through the forest. The widow Bull heard it, and in her fiight nearly lost her hold of the horses; while a wolf that was prowling near, sent up a dismal howl. Nancy's face was lying buried in Lydia's lap, when the widow, panting and wringing her hands, arrived at the foot of the bowlder. "Oh Lord! I can't climb that," exclaimed the latter, gazing up the steep. "Nancy dear, Lyddy dear, had ye wings to get where ye are? Tell me what's the matter." The regicide's daughter did not answer-she was weeping with her friend; but some of Lydia's tears were tears of gladness, while Nancy was giving utterance to her grief in piteous moans. "Every hand was turned against you, but I loved you, father--I loved you!" she cried. "No, no, you were not as bad as people thought." "Well, who's killed?" kept shouting the widow. "I say, why don't you answer?" and when the regicide's daughter called down that it was Mr. Clark, the dame's countenance betokened unfeigned sorrow. "He had his faults," she said, "he had his faults; but he was no believer in ducking-stools and whip- ping-posts, and there he differed from Captain Joe,   CHARTER OAK.       329 aye, and from his own child." Then raising her voice, "Girls," she said, "I give it up! Ye must have claws like cats or wings like birds, to have perched yerselves where ye be. But it won't do any good to stay there; if he's dead, he's dead, and it's what we all come to at last!"Here she pulled the- old tarred rope out of her pocket, and gazing fondly at it, " the days of the Polly Ann will never come back!" she sighed. "God's will be done!" Then drawing her sleeve across her eyes, "I'm sure, however, my old man would rather be where he is, down among the codfish, than in a rattle- snake den--ugh!" "I'm afraid," exclaimed Lydia, addressing the widow, "that even if we could get the body out, we would not be able to bury it--we have no spades." "Cover him with stones," returned Mrs. Bull; "that at least will keep the wolves from eating him, though it won't-ugh,!" Here she again shuddered at the idea of rattlesnakes crawling over the corpse. Lydia now told Nancy in a gentle voice that since her father was dead, she had better rejoin Mrs. Bull; "I will remain here," - she added, ".and properly cover the body. Where could'you find a better tomb?" "Thank you, thank you, Lyddy," sighed the oth-   330      ROMANCE OF THE er, allowing helself to be drawn from the edge o the cleft. "You are the truest of friends; what would I do without you? But I will- not leave this spot; no, prefer to wait near by till you are through."t Nancy did remain, her face buried in her hands; and although she endeavored to calm her- self by prayer, she could not stifle her sobs as she heard the stones rolling one after the other upon the corpse. At length the regicide's daughter in- formed her that there was nothing  1ore to be done, when they both slowly descended, and join- ing the widow, wended their way back ill silence o c^."   '^^^^**^^^        Pnrireirwayback'nsieneto the high-road. The horses were found safe at the foot of the tree where Mrs. Bull had tied them, but they were pawing the ground and neighing loudly. "They smell wild beasts," whispered  Lydia to the widow. "And there are swarms of them h ere," returned the latter; ,pity but we had a stable to put the nags in for the night." "Stable! Why, Mrs. Bull, I'm going straigh on to Hartford; if I can bear the journey, Purita "You shall do no such thing," exclaimed the dame; ," indeed you shan't. Why, you'd kill your- self with fatigue. No, you mustn't do such a mad    I      CHARTER OAK.      38 thing. Take a night's rest with us in the woods we'll make a jolly fire, and then you and Nanc can sleep while I watch. Aye, I'll do what the o] man often did on the Polly Ann----" here sl closed one eye and stared at Lydia with the othe "One peeper rested," she exclaimed, " while t'oth( was wide awake, peering  into the darkness, t windward, to leeward, and at the foaming sea ahead Ah, there was no- eye like the old man's eye! H1 never went ashore, Miss, and he'd be sailing yet i his staunch craft if a hurricane hadn't swallowe 'em both up." A little reflection convinced the girl that th dame's advice was wise, and that she might reall make herself ill if she continued the journey with -out repose; so, after giving a sigh, she promised t remain with them till the following day. In a few minutes the three travellers had picker out a convenient -spot not far from the road, bu on the opposite side from that on which M Clark's body had been found; then, having mad a rude chimney with the stones lying near, Lydif and Mrs. Bull began to gather sticks for a fire Nancy did not help them, but sat at the foot of i lofty pine, not groaning nor weeping, but silentl2 thinking of the dead. "None of us have ever camped out afore," said Mrs. Bull that evening, as they were assembled   33i2     ROMANCE OF THE around the cheerful blaze. " Oh, isn't this glorious  ten thousand times better than living in a co-mmu nity of Philistines. No ruling elder here to poke his nose into other folks' business. Ha, ha, ha !" An owl, perched on a neighboring tree, answored her laugh by a dismal hoot; presently a panlther set up a savage cry, "Pray God," thought Lydia, "we may not be attacked as nurse and I were on our journey down the river. But if the worst comesto the w ors, e can do what the good-wife then did-climb a tree." She did not reflect on the great weight of Mrs. Bull, which would certainly prevent the latter from  sav- ing herself in that wav. For more than two hours after nightfall, Lydia and the widow sat conversing together, and thile girl was informed of many things which had occurred during her absence from Connecticut. First, the dame told how pleased she was to find her with long hair-a    proof that Andros was no bigot; she thanked her for the new copy of Shake- speare, which had afforded her and the widow Japheth so much pleasant reading; then, in a  lower tone, Mrs. Bull went on to speak of Wadswortb. "There are some," she said, "who think he has lost his reason, and that he is wandering about in the forest; others believe an evil spirit has pos- sessed him.  Bu  t whatever's the m atter with Cap-   CHARTER OAK.       333 tain Joe, one thing is certain-he hasn't been to his home these eighteen months. Yet he's alive- yes, Mad Adams declares he is, and his Shadow now and -then pays her a visit," here, the dame turned and looked towards the figure sleeping near them. Then, with a sigh-"Alas!" she continued, "if he'd kept on courting Nancy Clark and married her, he'd hasve been a very different man, and she a very, very different woman." "Poor Wadsworth!" said Lydia, as his last de- spairing look, when she had bidden him farewell, rose in her mind, " poor Wadsworth! If the' peo- ple had not lost their courage-if they'd kept on the path you had marked out for them, you -might by this time have seen your dream come true. But they abandoned you-no wonder you have left them to dwell in the wilderness." The conversation now turned on the cause of Mrs. Bull's leaving Hartford. "You see," pursued the dame, clenching her fist, " the iron cages which Israel Barebones had ordered Adams to procure, came at last. It wasn't Simon, however, who got' 'em ; and hearing that they were going to put me in one of 'em, I resolved for the first time in my life to scud; and I am now in search of a comm u- nity where more liberal opinions prevail, I've heard say that in Rhode Island there are still a good many folks imbued with the sentiments of   w*   :   ROMANCE OF THE Roger Williams, and in that colony I may conclude to make a new home. But I am going first to Bos- ton, to see if things are any better under the- im- nmediate eye of Andros, who, though he is an Angli- can, and believes in candles, crosses, and stained windows for meeting-houses, yet is far from being such a Philistine as Israel Barebones." "Well, the ruling-elder never was a favorite of mine," put in Lydia, "yet I can forgive him much for his charity to the widow Japheth." "Bah! Miss Lyddy, it isn't charity that makes him send her corn and clothe her children; it's re- morse, black remorse, that does it. But for him, her husband would be alive to-day; it was perse-' cution broke poor Jacob's heart, and caused him to fall an easy prey to death." "Well, how is Tom Hubbard?" pursued the girl, i who was anxious to hear about all her friends-'  "and Dorothy Philbrick  .  "Both uncommon well and hearty, and   brag of you immensely, for they say 'twas you saved the  Charter. Aye, Dorothy and Tom  have grown fat in spite of Mr. Barebones, who follows 'em  everywhere, and who, I've heard say, caught em kissing among the huckleberry bushes. Ha,  ha! what an infernal old fool that Israel is! Does he think the rules of the church can hinder human nature sproutin' out? No more than I could keep   CHARTER OAK.       335 a piece of sparrow-grass from comin' up by sittin' on it. I say kissin' is no sin, and young folks 'll do it to the end of time."     - At length Lydia grew tired of talking, and stretching herself beside Nancy, sought the repose she so much needed; while Mrs. Bull kept the fire blazing, and whenever sleep threatened to master the dame, and she found her head nodding, she would rise to her feet and think of how often the old skip- per had stood by the helm of the Polly Ann through the long night-watches--"And I'm his widow," she would say to herself; "and I'll keep awake too." CHAPTER XLYII. THE sunbeams were streaming through the pine trees when Lydia awoke, feeling chilled and hun- gry, and after warming herself by the fire, which had been kept burning all night, she gladly par- took of the bread and cheese which her friends had brought with them. It seemed, indeed, a very frugal meal to one who had been leading such a luxurious life in Boston; but it was better than nothing, and refreshed her so much, that when she had finished she declared she was ready to continue her journey. "I'm go-   ing back to Hartford with you," said Nancy, as Lydia was putting the saddle on. Puritan; " w will never part from you again. God sent you to com- fort me during my hours of trial. No, I cannot live-without you." "Ha! don't say you'll never part from her," whispered Mrs. Bull. "'Twon't be long afore she's married to that gallant on the staff of His Excel- lency; aye, Adams has told me all about it. And you, dear-you'll find a husband somewhere. I'll make it a business to hunt one up; although I con- fess 'twon't be any easy thing to do, for 'tain't every man that's worthy of you."      4 "That is never to be," replied Nancy, in a low but firm voice; "never, never to be." "What can she mean?'" thought the widow, looking in wonder at the pale face by her side; then bursting into a laugh-"Ha, ha! did taking a husband ever damn a woman's soul? No, Nancy, two ships in company are better than one--we can fetch the port of Zion far easier if we're spliced, than if we sail along by ourselves."- To this the young woman made no response, but turning away, was about to join Lydia,-when the dame caught her by the sleeve. "Stay," she cried, "don't. take offence at anything I said, You're too humble; but I vow you're good enough for any man. However, since you wish it, I'll not speak   VU IA L IL1lO w o w s , s o I another word about matrimony, but talk only of myself. And now let me inform you that I'm go- ing back with you and Miss Garlic. I shan't scud a mile further. No, I'll 'bout ship, face Israel Barebones, the ducking-stool and the iron\ cage, and if the worst comes to the worst, I'll go down with colors flying." "Oh, yes, do return with us," exclaimed the regi- cide's daughter, who, having saddled both horses, was impatient to be off. "Something tells me the news of a revolution in England is true. Hence- forward the people will give their thoughts to po- litical matters, and such fanatics as Israel Bare- boues will not be listened to. So do come back, Mrs. Bull--do." "A revolution in England! Why, 'tis the first I've heard about it," said the widow. "Yes, King James is dethroned, and has been suc- ceeded by William of Orange; at least such is the rumor." "And no do ubt the people are in ecstasies over it?" "They are, indeed." "Oh, Wadsworth!" murmured Nancy, clasping her hands; "when this news reaches you, 'twill bring little joy. Alas! 'tis not what you have been  longing for. But in the course of time your dream will come true-these colonies will one day owe al-   338      ROMANCE OF T HE legiance to no earthly king-they will be free and independent." Lydia now brought Mr. Clark's horse close to a fallen tree, where, after much puffing and with the help of Nancy, the widow managed to get on his back; then, having made her friend mount Puri- tan, the regicide's daughter sprang up behind, and in this manner they took their course for the Wethlersfield ferry. That night was spent in a deserted cabin, and towards sunset the following day they entered Hartford. "The Philistines have been looking for me," said Mrs. Bull, as they rode past her cottage. "Ah, the wretches! they've broke open the door and window; but I'll never turn my  back on them again! By all the sharks, never!" When they went by Nancy's old home the young woman turned her face away--she had not the nerve to look at it. Oh, what memories crowded upon her at that moment! As for Lydia, she looked neither to the right nor left, but strained her eyes to catch a glimpse of the roof which shel- tered her father. A little ways beyond the green they met Tom  Hubbard, Dorothy, and Faith Genness--the latter weeping bitterly. No sooner did Tom and his sweetheart recognize   CHARTER OAK.       339 the party, than they set up a shout of joy which might have been heard at the other end of the town. But Faith did not .appear to notice them, and the regicide's daughter was wondering what could be the cause of her grief when, happening to glance in the direction of the stocks, who should she see fastened there by his wrists and ankles but the lad with the moon face, who was calling out, " don't cry dear, don't cry; I'm as well off here as if I was choppin' wood for Pop." Having shaken hands with their friends, the travellers passed on and were soon in front of the Bunch of Grapes, where, standing beneath the sign-board, was a man whose countenance, the moment he recognized them, became illumined by a smile. "God be praised!" exclaimed Israel Barebones, "God be praised! the cage will not stand empty next Sabbath."  Then clasping his hands: "And as I live," he continued, "if there isn't Miss Lydia Garlic come back too! She was a sabbath-breaker as well as the widow Bull, and a giver of scandal, and lo! her sinful curls have grown out again. But they shall not be tolerated; I will see that the law is enforced." "Aye, such long hair inviteth damnation," re- marked Mr. Philbrick. "And 'tis strange," put in Mr. Hubbard, "that   340 .-     OMANCE OF THE Nancy Clark should be found in such company.' Alas! I fear she is relapsing into sin." The regicide's daughter did not, mean to stop and speak with'any of the group, and had almost gone past when the tall woodman-the same whom she had met durjng her first ride witl Wadsworthh, two years before-rushed out of the Ordinary alnd grasping her bridle, cried, "what news? what news? 'Tis long since I've seen you. Surely you must bring news." I do," replied Lydia, " and if ites only true I know your heart will beat for joy; for my part I believe it.", At these words a crowd gathered about her, nor was Puritan allowed to go another step until she had told themn of the rumor that James II, had been dethroned, and that William of Orange had succeeded him. "Andros," she de- clared, " is not likely to remain peaceably in Bos- ton. There was great excitement when I left." Here a number of caps were tossed into the air, and a loud cheer was given, after which the people withdrew, and she was allowed to continue her way. It did not take her long to reach Wads- worth's abode, where in a trice she slid off her horse, and without knocking threw open the door. But her foot had scarcely touched the threshold when she was confronted by the Captain of the   CHARTER OAI.       341 train-band. Her appearance seemed to startle Wadsworth. "How is father?" she exclaimed, without wait- ing for him to open his lips. "How is father?" "Too late," he groaned, " too late! but come in and I will tell you all about it." With this Wads- worth took her hand and led her towards the study; but before she reached it Miss Crabtree came rushing down the staircase, and throwing her arms around the girl's neck burst into tears. Lydia somewhat rudely broke away from her, then pointing towards the outer door where Nancy and the widow Bull still remained seated on their horses, she followed Wadsworth into the library. "Yes, your father is dead," said the Captain, when he had, closed the door and motioned her to a seat. "But, Miss Goffe, we must all die sooner or later. Do not mourn for him, if ever there was a good man he was one." During the next half hour nothing broke the stillness of the room but the girl's sobs, while her host, with folded arms and head bowed on his breast, paced back and forth. At length Lydia looked up and asked to be shown her parent's grave. Wadsworth, turning upon the girl his cavernous eyes, which still re- tained something of their ancient fire, answered: i"I swore, Miss Goffe, to guard the regicide when ',   342      ROMANCE OF THE alive, and now that he is dead, no one shall disturb his bones. It would not have been safe to place him near our meeting-house, so I have buried hiim in the cellar-I left my retreat in the forest on purpose to do this-there let your father rest in peace." Presently Nancy's voice was heard in the next room, and without asking permission of her host, Lydia called her friend into the library-and there they passed the whole day sorrowing together, CHAPTER XLVIII. "YDLA, the widow Bull and Iancy Clark, now found themselves all three Wadsworth's guests, and two days after their arrival they were joined by Goody Garlic, whom Lady Andros, true to her promise, had sent off in charge of the postman. The accounts which the dame brought of the con- dition of affairs in Boston were very exciting, and the townfolks who called upon her all went away filled with gladness at the, prospect of a speedy deliverance from the tyranny of Sir Ed- mund. In fact during the whole of that week and the next nothing was talked of in Hartford but the change in the government. Stocks, cages and   CHARTER OAK.      343 whipping-posts were forgotten, and the ruling- elder finding himself suddenly abandoned, gave way to groans and .prayers. "The spirit of Beel- zebub," he would say to himself, " hath possessed the whole community; oh Lord, deliver them from his clutches." As for Wadsworth, he did not show himself once- among the townfolks; but they had become so used to his absence, that they no longer asked, "where is Captain Joe." Even at home he was rarely seen. Occasionally Miles Standish would scratch at the outer door for admittance, and on being let in, would run up to Nancy, lick her hand a moment then again whine to be let out. Thus matters went -on until the twentieth of April. The regicide's daughter had been little more than a fortnight in Hartford, and now to her grief for her father's death, was added intense anxiety about Henry Synnot, on whom Andros might already have wreaked vengeance. At length one evening, just as the sun was sinking below the horizon, a couple of horsemen came riding along the street shouting': " hurrah! long live William o: Orange!"The cry was answered by a score o freemen, who immediately forced Christian to rei, in his steed, and impart the glad tidings that Si Edmund was a prisoner in the fort at Boston, an( that James the Second was really dethroned .    344      ROMANCE OF THE Presently the bells of both meeting-houses rang out joyous peals, the street was filled with people congratulating one another on the happy change and although nmany recognized in Christian, the same Pequot whom they had once expelled from the town, they greeted him warmly andc even craved pardon for ever having entertained un- just suspicions of him. Doubtless the reader has already guessed the name of the other- horseman, who, unlike his companion, did not allow himself to be stopped, but dashed on until he reached WaT ds- worth's abode, on the threshold of which he caught sight of Lydia, about to sally forth to discover the cause of the bell ringing. We shall not attempt to describe the feelings of the lovers as they met. Nancy, stood by, no trace of joy on her counte- nance, but with the quiet subdued expression of one resigned to God's will. "He was a gallant old soldier," said Synnot, when Lydia told him of her father's death; "a gallant old soldier! Henceforward may I never defend any cause but that of liberty, which was so dear to his heart." In a few, minutes Christian came up followed iby a noisy crowd, among wholm you might have recog- nized Israel Barebones. But the hearts of all were too elated, to pay any heed to the goodman's attempts at an exhortation, and nobody chided 8    3  45 CHAETEB OAK. Faith Ge  nnes s and Dorothy Philbrick, who began F   openly praising L yaids c urls. Nor was the widow B  ull slow to p erceive the ch ange which had come over the people, and drawing from her pocket the old tarred rope, she eraeked it a bov e her head and at t  he same tim e produced her ne v copy of Slakes - peare, which she brandished in the face of the uling eld  er. "G od bless Willialn of Orange!" cried the dame. "Ee'll give us religious, as we!l as poli- tical liberty. By all the sharks, here's an end of cages, ducking-stools, and whipping-posts; and now we'll kiss, a nd dane, Nancl read what books we like." Nobody appeared to notice her, however, except Mr  . Barebones who, with clasped hands was mut- tering a prayer in her behalf; the eyes of all were aturned upon L ydia, Captain Synot and Christian. Many were laughing, others crying for joy. Sud- denly there was a movement in the crowd, which opened andcl there passed through a figure with steeple-crowned hat drawn low over his brow; a his heels followed a dog. The poor creature seemed fagged out; you might hae thought it  had eaten notling for a week. "Joe," said Miss Crabtree," Joe  But he p no attention to her voice . "Don't trouble him," whispered Goody Garlic seizing her friend by the arm, don't trouble him She'll get over his gloomy fit by-and-by. Oh,yes   346      0OMANCE OF THE he'll smile and clap his hands as much as any of us, when he hears that the revolution in England is a fact." But there was that in Wadsworth's ex- pression which had frightened his aunt, and break. ing away from Prudence she followed him into thle house. She went first of course to the library, and on receiving no answer to her knock opened the door, but to her surprise found that he was not there. She thlen hastened up to the second story, and- searched for him in his bedroom, then in her own apartment. "Joe," she kept crying, "Joe!" but still no answer came. At length she entered the chamber occupied by Miss Goffe and Goody Garlic, and lo! what did she behold.! Seated in the ancient chair where his father and grandfather had breathed their last-motionless, with hands pressed together in the attitude of prayer, his jaw slightly fallen, and gazing at her with the look of death was her nephew. Miles was staring at him. Did, the faithful creature know what had happened.; Perhaps it did, for as the aunt shrieked, it set up a doleful howl. In a moment Lydia, followed by Synnot, Nancy and Goody Garlic, made her appearance; then came all the rest of the people with Israel Bare- bones at their head. A cry of horror rang from cellar to garret. Presently Adams rushed in. "Make way," he cried, "make way! Let me   CHAMTER OAK.       347 speak to him." Then approaching his old leader, Simon bent down and gazed at him in silence. "No, no," he muttered, after satisfying himself that the vital spark had fled,' I won't speak to him, he swouldn't hear me." At these words a tear trickled down the weather-beaten face of the faithful scout. "Ye have lost a great man!" he said at length, turning to the multitude, "Ye have lost a great man! Hartford will be nothing without him. I will never live here again. Never, never!" With this he seized Miles Standish in his arms and rushed out of the room. "Yes, he was a great man," responded Israel Barebones, slowly shaking his head and wiping his eyes, "a great man and he shall have a glorious epitaph." E "Let me write it," exclaimed Lydia, "oh do, and I'll forgive your fanaticism; let me write Wads- worth's epitaph." You shall, Miss Goffe, you shall;" answered i: the ruling-elder, "he thought the world and all of It was late in the evening before the crowd left the house, and as Mr. Barebones passed out the regicide's daughter placed in his hand a slip of a  paper-and he promised to have the words it con- tained carved upon the tombstone. r s    348       ROMANCE OF THE That night all the house-hold slept but one-she sat watching by the'dead. "They called him  a visionary," said Nancy as she gazed on the marble face ; " some even thought he was possessed. But he has gone before One who will judge him with justice and mercy. Oh, Wadsworth, Wadsworth, if in spirit you fell from your high resolve, the God of all goodness has for- given you.  Your vow  was more difficult to keep than Jephtha's vow, and Satan tempted you, as he did not tempt the ruler of Israel!" X   X  X- *    *  .   *  .R There is another grave-stone by the Old Meeting- House, with these words carved upon it: "IN MEMORY Or JOSEPH WADSWORTH," "Many years Captain of the Hartford Train-Band." "Translated 20th day of April, in year of grace 1689." ' Aged 32." "Here lies one who lived too soon ;" "A later age shall see " "The daring Vision of iis soul," "Turn into Prophecy." "William of Orange long may reign," "And other kings succeed," "But in the end from England's rule " "His people shall be freed!"   CHARTER OAK.       349 Lydia, before quitting Hartford, never to return, lingered with Henry Synnot by this new grave, and at the head of it planted an evergreen tree which Israel Barebones promised to watch. "While I live," he said, "Lno axe shall touch it. 'Twill often make me think of Captain Joe." Goodwife Garlic and Mrs. Bull attached them- selves thenceforward to the regicide's daughter, who in less than a year became Lady Synnot-for on the cleath of his brother, Henry had inherited the baronetcy-and they all went to dwell in York- shire, England. In vain Lydia strove to persuade Nancy Clark to ,accompany them; the young woman shook her head and murmured, "I cannot leave my dead." True to her promise she never moved away from the settlement, and to tho wonder of everybody took up her residence in the Wadsworfth mansion, where she- and Charity Crabtree dwelt together in harmony many years. From having once hated Nancy, the' aunt now gave her all her affection: "She was Joe's first love," the dame would murmur, "his first love." While Nancy bestowed on Miss Crabtree more than a daughter's care, and thllrough the trying period of dotage, became, like a parent to the helpless old soul -reading over and over again to her the time-worn manuscript which contained the record of her   ,350 ROMANCE OF THE CHAR/tTER: OAK../ 350   ROMANCE OF THE CHARTER OAK. dreams, and listening with patience to her childish prattle. The oak on Wyllys' hill carried the charter safe in its  bosom  until the year 1715, when Ladly Synnot wrote to the Governor of Connecticut, tell- ing him where the precious instrument might be found. The tree was still flourishing, when news of the battle of Bunker hill spread through the land. And it is related that while the men of Hartford were assembled ohi the square in front of the court house (the old meeting-house had long disappear- ed) to enroll themselves in the continental army, a youth whose features bore a striking resemblance to the Tom Hubbard of our narrative, his cap adorned by a black cockade and an eagle feather, called their attention to a gravestone, the last which the enterprising spirit of the age had suffered to remain there; then bending down, he read aloud the epitaph carved upon it, and when he had fin- ished, exclaimed, " verily, this Joseph Wadsworth was a Prophet." FINIS.   Q \                 is    
         
       
   
