
    ----CITATION----
        Maitland, James A.. The Pirate Doctor, or, The Extraordinary Career of a New-York Physician .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7197
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE PIRATE DOCTOR; 
               OR, The Extraordinary Career of a New-York Physician. 
             
            BY A NAVAL OFFICER. 
            
               NEW-YORK: 
               GARRETT & CO., PUBLISHERS,  
                     No. 18 Ann Street. 
                  
               
             
          
       
      
         
            The pirate doctor, or, The extraordinary career of a New-York physician 
             
            THE PIRATE DOCTOR; 
            OR, THE EXTRAORDINARY CAREER OF A NEW-YORK PHYSICIAN. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               "WELL, Russell, again I say welcome back to New-York," said a young man to his companion, some years his senior, whose embrowned visage and strongly marked, yet intelligent features, betokened a long residence in foreign climes, and probably some rough service and hard usage encountered in the course of his journeyings. "Welcome back to New-York, old Jack Russell; why, I can scarcely believe my eyes when I look at you, and think that ten years have passed away since we took our last morning walk on the Battery, upon the day on which you made such a mysterious and sudden departure, 'to climes unknown beyond the seas,' and without having had even a line from you during the whole of that long period; to fancy that almost on the identical spot where we parted, I should have met you again this morning, while taking a morning stroll, just as we used to do in old times, before going to business. Where in the world have you disposed of yourself all this time? Why did you quit, without giving notice to any of your friends, and when did you return? There is a string of interrogatories now for you to reply to; so toe the mark at once, for I am dying with curiosity." 
               The speaker was a fair-haired, smartly-dressed young man, who could not have been more than twenty-five or six years of age at most, and whose fresh complexion and lively demeanor gave him the appearance of being much younger. 
               He to whom the questions were addressed was, as we have said, some years the senior of his companion. Probably he was thirty-five years of age; but a certain recklessness of manner, and a complexion bronzed by the effects of a tropical sun and a skin roughened by the breezes of the salt ocean, together with large and bushy whiskers of a dark color, gave him perhaps an appearance of greater age than he was really entitled to. 
               Without replying directly to any of the questions put to him by his young friend, the elder of the two speakers said merely: 
               "Are you still in the employment of the same firm with whom you had just engaged I think when I left New-York? Frank -- -- & Co., of Broad-street, was the name of the firm, if I am not mistaken." 
               "Yes, Jack-you will excuse me, Mr. Russell, for calling you Jack-but the name seems so familiar that I can think of nothing else when I am addressing you. Yes, I am still in the employ of the same firm; but not the green assistant bookkeeper and general errand boy of the establishment as I was then-a young lad of fifteen just from school, and as raw and ignorant of the ways of city life as any country youth need be. I am now first corresponding clerk to the firm, in possession of a good situation, tolerably easy times, and a salary of $1,200 a year." 
               "Not married, eh?" 
               "Well no, not married, that is to say, not exactly married, but thinking of shortly uniting myself in the bonds of matrimony with a sweet girl, the daughter of one of the junior partners of the house, as soon as we can make matters snug, and get the consent of the governor." 
               "She has money, of course?" 
               "Well, I presume she will have. Her father is reputed wealthy; indeed, I know him to be so; but very close; very little money do I expect to get from him until he is no longer capable of retaining it in his possession. To tell the truth, although I don't pretend to care nothing for money, as the heroes of novels are generally represented to do, yet I have thought very little about that matter.-If I can only obtain the hand of the fair Emma, money matters will be an afterthought." 
               A smile, half of pity, half of derision, passed over the features of the elder of the two speakers, as he said- 
               "And the old man-her father-does he consent to the match, for I take it for granted that Miss Emma is agreeable?" 
               "He does not strenuously object. I have no doubt he would prefer what he would call a more eligible match for his daughter, but he desires I should wait until I am admitted as a partner in the house myself-that will be, I trust, in the course of a year from this date, and until then Emma and I must exercise the virtue of patience. But tell me, Russell, do you intend to follow your profession in this city again; and, by-the-by, that leads me back to the subject of my interrogatories, not one of which you have yet replied to, although you have been cunning enough to extract a fund of most interesting information from me. I presume, when you decamped so suddenly, it was to go as surgeon on board some ship; such at least was the idea that I in common with the rest of your friends entertained, for we knew you always had a hankering after adventure. We expected month after month to get letters from you, dated from any spot between Hudson's Bay and the Straits of Magellan, or the Himmalayehs and the Cordilleras of the Andes. When some years had passed and no tidings of or from you had been received, we thought you had become the prey of the sharks, and to tell the plain truth, you were almost forgotten, except, perhaps, now and then, when memory was busy with the past in some vacant hour, some incident would recall you to mind. Nevertheless, I am no less glad to see you now safe and well." 
               "As to following up my profession in this city, Frank, I have not yet made up my mind upon the matter. I would like well enough to do so, if I saw any chance of success before me, but I should be a new-comer in a manner, after so long an absence, and I have no great fancy for plodding through a weary probation of years with a bare chance only of eventual success before me. Sooner than do that I shall be off to sea again in the first ship that wants a surgeon. Where she is bound does not matter a fig; all the world is alike to me; I have no ties to bind me to any one shore, and little predilection for any one particular soil. To be sure I like my native land best-that of course, provided other things are equal; but where the most money and the most fun are to be had for the least possible amount of labor, is the spot for me, and to that land of promise I am bound, as soon as I can ascertain its bearings, and that puts me in mind of your other questions. Well, I did go to sea, as you surmised, as surgeon of a whale ship, with scarcely half an hour's warning, and I landed back in New-York yesterday, after an absence of ten years and four months." 
               "And all this time you have been acting as surgeon on board a whale ship?" said Frank with surprise. 
               "Well, yes-not exactly-that is to say, I will explain this matter to you another time. Meanwhile, drink up your wine and let's have another bottle. I have plenty of the dimes you see just now, and I intend to luxuriate a little. 
                      
                        "'Dollars and dimes, dollars and dimes, 
                        An empty pocket's the worst of crimes,'" 
                     
                  
                   sang the young man, who had drank a considerable quantity of wine, which had produced its customary exhilarating effects-and a full pocket absolves its possessor from a multitude of sins; it is to the world what charity is to heaven; so let us enjoy ourselves as we best may while we can. That's my motto. Eh! Frank. Waiter, bring cigars and more wine." 
               "I really would like to be excused," said Frank. "I am not much accustomed to drink. I will take a cigar. We'll have a short stroll on the Battery by moonlight, for the sake of 'Auld langsyne,' and then home to bed. It's drawing near ten o'clock, and I have a busy day's work before me to-morrow-the British Queen sails for Liverpool with the mails, and on such occasions I am on double duty." 
               "Well, well, just as you like. I will not force you to drink, although perhaps when you grow to be as old as I am, and that will be a good nine years hence, you will learn to appreciate the merits of good wine and a snug parlor-a pretty woman too, if you will-better than a moonlight stroll in the chill air of the night. However, finish your glass, and allons." 
               The above conversation took place on an evening in May, five years ago, at a parlor in Delmonico's hotel, in Broadway. The parties between whom it occurred were Frank Morton, and, as we have already stated, John, or as his intimates were wont to term him, Jack Russell. 
               Some fifteen years before the period at which our story commences, both these young men had been inmates of the same school-a well-known and highly respectable academy in those days-situated in the vicinity of the town of Hudson, but long since removed, or in all probability broken up altogether. Russell, it is true, left the school and went to Harvard College to study medicine very shortly after Morton had entered it; but they were from the same neighborhood, and an intimacy had sprung up between them from the earliest moment of Frank's recollection, and had been continued until the moment of Russell's strange disappearance. 
               On having obtained his degree at college, Russell had established himself in New-York city, in the hope of obtaining practice about the time that Frank's guardian-a wealthy and well-known Wall-street broker of that day-had obtained him a seat in the counting-house of the wealthy firm of --, in Broad-street. We suppress the name from motives of delicacy, which will be hereafter made sufficiently obvious, although for no reason that can in any way affect the credit or honor of that highly respectable and wealthy house. 
               Russell was an orphan, of West Indian parentage, although he had been born in the United States. His father had been a wealthy Jamaica planter, and dying when he was quite a child, he left his son, whose mother had died some two years before, the great bulk of his property, amounting to some $150,000. This money was left in the hands and under the direction of a guardian, who had betrayed his trust by speculating with the money, probably with no dishonest motive; but the result was disastrous, so far as young Russell was concerned. All the old gentleman's speculations failed, and to save himself from the evil consequences that might ensue, he absconded with all the effects he could gather together of his own or any one else's, leaving his ward friendless and penniless, with the exception of a small lot and cottage on the outskirts of Brooklyn which still remained to him. This property, when he became of age, he disposed of for $2,000, and this sum was all he possessed when, almost without friends or acquaintances, he commenced the practice of medicine in the commercial metropolis of the Empire State.-This money was soon expended; the young man could not live on air, and was by no means inclined to do so even if he had been able. The season was remarkably healthy, and those who did get sick entrusted the care of their precious persons to older, more experienced, better known, and as they thought abler hands, and thus things wore on until the morning to which Frank alluded, when he said he was walking on the Battery with his friend. All the available effects of Russell were reduced to $7 in money, some half-dozen shirts, on which there was a lien of a washing bill, a couple of suits of clothing that were beginning to grow white at the seams from the utter inability of the embryo doctor to renew his clothing or to get trust from his tailor, although he promised to attend him professionally for a twelvemonth, an old meerchaum pipe, and a smoking cap. Reduced to this rather unpleasant and awkward predicament, and seeing the hopelessness of the future if he remained, Russell had thought it a godsend, when, passing up Old Slip, he saw a placard announcing that a surgeon was wanted for a whaler, which would sail immediately. He applied for the berth. The captain was by no means particular at that late hour, and he was duly installed on board the ship as doctor, with an intimation that he was expected to make himself generally useful. The vessel sailed, and for two years Russell held his post. He did not, however, return in the ship, and the reason why he did not, will be told in a future chapter of our story. 
               It would be as well here if we were to describe more particularly the personal appearance of the two parties whom this chapter has introduced to the reader. 
               Russell was a tall, robust young man, of a dark complexion, and strongly marked but handsome and commanding features. His eyes were as black as night, and the expression of his countenance gave an idea of a haughty, overbearing temper towards those who offended him, although he was kindness and gentleness itself to those whom he esteemed and who at the same time indirectly acknowledged his superiority and accepted his patronage. His principles, we are sorry to say, were not the most firmly fixed. He was a sceptic if not an infidel in religion, and by no means a pattern worth copying in his moral code, although so far he had not been known to do anything that could be called decidedly wrong or disgraceful. 
               Frank Morton was of a different appearance and disposition altogether. His features were not so regularly handsome as his friend's, nor was he so robust. His complexion was fair and ruddy, his hair a very light brown, and his disposition kind and confiding. His moral principles were good, but he was rather weak and wavering in character, and easily made to submit to the dictation of others older and more decided in character than himself. 
               He had been placed by his guardian-his parents having died when he was quite an infant-at the age of fifteen in the firm already alluded to, and here, step by step, he had risen until he had attained a respectable and confidential position, and a promise, as we have heard, of an admission into a partnership in the business. 
               He had fallen in love with a beautiful girl of 18 years of age-the only child of one of the junior partners of the house-and had become her accepted swain. The father of the girl, although he affected to look with coolness upon the suit of his clerk, was not ill-pleased with the prospect of a future alliance between his child and the diligent and trustworthy young man, and all appeared to be going on merrily as a marriage-bell. But beware, Frank-beware! there is a despoiler at hand; one whom you know and trust, and therefore so much the more dangerous. Beware! we say; beware! or the cup that you have raised to your lips-now overflowing with the draught of happiness-will be dashed to the ground before those lips are parted to receive it. 
               The two friends walked to the Battery and strolled along its paths, enjoying the beauties of the night scenery as the moon reflected the surrounding objects in the clear water, and every thing wore that air of repose so different from the bustle and hurry that pervades that busy neighborhood during the day. 
               Trinity Church struck the hour of midnight. Frank walked back to Delmonico's with his friend, wished him good night, and then sought his own lodgings. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               Russell arose from his bed about eight o'clock on the following morning, and having breakfasted, sat for some time conning over the contents of the daily papers. Hi attention was suddenly deeply arrested, for, throwing aside the listless air, pretended or real, which he had assumed, he conned eagerly a paragraph in the Herald, which read as follows, and which some of our readers may possibly recollect to have read. It is as follows: 
               "The Captain of the schooner Lucy Neal, from Honduras and Jamaica, arrived at this port yesterday, reports having seen on the 7th inst., about 40 miles to the northward of Montego Bay, a long, low, black and rakish looking brig, carrying a long-tom amidships and apparently full of men. The brig gave chase to the schooner, and had approached almost within gun-shot, when H. M. S. frigate Seringapatam, which is cruising in the West Indies, hove in sight, and the pirate vessel, for such undoubtedly she was, immediately hauled her wind and was soon out of sight to windward. The captain of the schooner spoke the man-of-war, and the commander of the latter replied that he had given chase to a similar vessel on the previous day, but that she sailed like a witch, and in consequence of her small draught of water, she managed to get close in shore, where the frigate could not follow her, and thus effected her escape. The captain of the frigate said he had heard of several outrages having been committed by a pirate brig within the past few weeks, and he was endeavoring to ferret her out. 
               "Capt. Swan, of the Lucy Neal, warns mariners who are bound to the West Indies or the Spanish Main, to keep a good look-out for this daring ocean marauder." 
               "Confound the fellow," said Russell, after he had twice read the paragraph in question, "there's no trusting these d-d Spaniards. No sooner is my back turned than Senor Enrico must quit his legitimate business, and jeopard not only his own cursed neck, but my vessel, and very probably compromise me in the bargain. He should have gone into some of the keys after having disposed of the negroes, and awaited orders from me. I've no objections to a good haul in the way of a prize, but there is a necessity for caution in these matters. Enrico might have known that the West Indies just now is full of those cursed Queen's ships, and he should have kept dark. He's a daring fellow, too, that Enrico. Ha! ha! upon my soul I should have liked to have been aboard when the brig showed her heels to the frigate. The great clumsy craft-she attempt to overhaul the Bonita-bah! The man-of-war isn't built yet that can touch the bonny little craft." 
               Russell laid down the paper and shortly again took it up and commenced to read over the advertising columns. At length his eye lit on the following: 
               "A French lady of attractive personal appearance and good education, possessing various accomplishments, would be happy to instruct a young gentleman in the French and Italian languages at her residence, No.-Walker-street. Terms easy. Good references expected. Inquire for Emilie." 
               "The deuce," said Russell, when he read this advertisement. "There must be some fun to be picked up here, and as I am rusticating, and Frank is busy at his office, I may as well dispel the monotony of the day, in some way or other. Gad! I'll call on this charming French woman." 
               So saying, he seized his hat and cane and strolled to Walker-street. He soon found the number of the house, and ringing at the bell made the necessary inquiry. 
                
               A smart servant girl, who had opened the door, proceeded up stairs to her mistress's room, whence she immediately descended and coquettishly requested the gentleman to walk up. Russell did so, and the room was pointed out to him by his conductress. He knocked gently at the door, and a silvery voice pronounced the word "Entrez," "Come in, come in." 
               Russell opened the door and saw immediately before him, reclining upon a sofa, a beautiful woman of some twenty-five years of age. She had apparently been engaged in reading, for a book lay beside her on the floor, as if it had dropped from her hand on the entrance of the stranger. She rose from her reclining position. 
               "I presume I have the honor to address Mlle. Emilie, whose advertisement appeared in the Herald of this morning," said Russell. 
               "Yes, sare; Je m'appelle Emilie. I put one vat you call-advertisement-in ze papers yesterday. I am charm to see so soon von gentleman's repliquer to my notice. Does Monsieur speak ze French?" 
               "Un peu, Madame," replied Russell, "Je serai bien heureux d'addresser Mlle. en cette langue si elle le trouve plus facile a parler." 
               "J'en suis bien aise," replied the lady; and the subsequent conversation was carried on in French; but for the benefit of such of our readers as do not understand that language, we shall translate such portions of the conversation that passed as suit our purpose into the English language. 
               Russell, who spoke French tolerably well, had, as may be readily imagined, no idea of availing himself of the offer set forth in the advertisement. He however introduced himself as desirous of acquiring a better knowledge of French. 
               "But Monsieur already speaks admirably the French language," said the lady. 
               "Not so well but that I might improve my pronunciation by listening to the silvery voice of Mademoiselle, Mademoiselle Emilie perhaps may have read Byron, and will recollect the passage in Don Juan, which says,- 
                      
                        "''Tis pleasing to be schooled in a strange tongue, 
                        By female lips and eyes,' &c. 
                     
                  
                
               "I would gladly avail myself of that pleasure." 
               "Monsieur, I perceive, is fond of flattery." 
               "It is no flattery, fair Emilie. To tell the truth, I am a stranger here, dull and restless for want of female friends. Seeing this advertisement in the paper this morning, I thought it offered an opening for the interchange of feelings of friendship. Mlle, is a foreigner; perhaps, too, a stranger. She may want, indeed she does want a companion of the opposite sex; so do I; shall it then be a bargain, or not!" 
               "Monsieur is prompt, and not too bashful," said the lady. "If he will call this afternoon, at six o'clock, I will be prepared to give an answer. This morning I expect company, and, for the present, Monsieur must excuse me." 
               Russell left the room, and thought, as he descended the stairs, "The little jade, what does she mean? This is cavalier-like treatment, sure enough; and it is either done to provoke me to make more decided attempts to gain her favor, or is a cool dismissal. However, I will keep the appointment; six o'clock, eh! and company, did she say? It is now twelve o'clock," he continued, taking out his watch. "Six weary hours to pass away some way or other. Well, I'll take a stroll up Broadway and try to provoke an appetite, and then drop into Florence's for a lunch." So saying, he turned the corner of Walker-street, and lounged leisurely along Broadway towards Union Square. 
               No sooner had Russell left the house than Emilie threw herself, in a paroxysm of laughter, on the sofa. 
               "So, so," she cried; "this Mister Russell, he does not recognize me. He does not think it is Inez to whom he was paying his compliments. How strange that this advertisement should bring me into contact with Don Felix. Ha, ha! Mister Russell, I should say. Ah! Mister Russell, it is my turn now; but I shall play with the fish for a while, and then, by-and-by, when I have made him answer the purposes I want, I will take my revenge. I will let him know the danger of arousing a woman's hate. Donna Inez and Don Felix! Mr. Russell and Emilie! It is too good! to meet here in New York, after five years, and he not to recognize me beneath these light curls," added she, at the same time drawing a large front of luxuriant auburn ringlets from her head, and unrolling her scarcely less luxuriant curls of jetty blackness, the fair Emilie appeared to be suddenly metamorphosed into a brilliant Spanish brunette. 
               "Annette," she said to her servant, "I will be alone to-day-do not admit any one until evening, when Mr. Russell, the gentleman who has just left, will call. Show him up, if he calls alone, and until then leave me." 
               "Oui, Madame," said the maid, making a low courtsey, and Emilie, or perhaps we should say Inez, was alone. 
               Meanwhile, Russell lounged listlessly through the weary hours, anxiously awaiting the stroke of six o'clock. His curiosity was piqued, and not only that, but there had been something in the features and the tone of voice of the fair Emilie which reminded him of something that hung like a mystery around him. He could not shake off the singular impression the lady had made, nor could he form it into any tangible shape, and so the day wore on, and at length the weary hours had passed and the moment of assignation had arrived. True to the time, just as the clocks of the city were striking the hour of six, Russell placed his hand on the door-bell of the house No-Walker-street. 
               The bell had scarcely sounded before the door was opened by Annette, and he was shown up stairs to the room in which he had had an interview with the fair Emilie in the morning. She was attired with much greater costliness now than on the previous occasion on which Russell had seen her, and was seated at a small table busily occupied with some fancy needle-work. The heavy false front of fair curls again hid her luxuriant black hair, and the addition of a slight touch of rouge to the cheeks gave her quite a different appearance to the pale, haughty-looking brunette that she appeared naturally. The general expression was the same, but so modified by the disguise as to have allowed her to pass off, even among her most intimate friends, as a stranger, strongly and strangely resembling some one else-a sort of double of some other being whom they were still unable to recognize in the fair form before them. 
               She rose from her seat to receive her visitor. 
               "Believe me, fair Emilie," said Russell, "the hours have passed away on leaden wings since I had the happines, of seeing you in the morning. May I hope that you have favorably considered my proposal, that I may be permitted to improve my acquaintance with the French language, by listening to the harmony which falls from those sweet lips, and at the same time enjoy the familiarity of a friend!" 
               "Cease such trifling, Monsieur," said Emilie, with ill-concealed disgust, and then suddenly appearing to recollect her assumed part, she added, smilingly, "Monsieur must be well aware that he speaks French as well as I do-that instruction in that language is needless, and I am not sure it would be seemly to admit a stranger without introduction into the intimacies of friendship." 
               "Mademoiselle is a stranger here, like myself, I presume. Probably she has not long since quitted her native France. La belle France-gay, delightful Paris, where I myself have spent many pleasant days, the recollection of which still enchants me. I, as I said this morning, seek in this city for the communion of a kindred spirit, one who has partaken in the blandishments of the capital of fashion and les beaux arts. Mademoiselle, I presume, by the advertisement to which I had the honor to reply, is similarly situated. She sighs for something more spirituel than the dull humdrum life of this bustling, money-getting city, and a further acquaintance with each other may be advantageous to us both." 
               "Monsieur is laboring under a slight mistake, which I will endeavor to rectify," replied Emilie to this tirade. "He evidently believes me to be a native of France. I am not so; neither have I ever been in Europe. I was born in Havana, but passed many years of my childhood in the island of Martinique, which will account for my speaking the French language so well. Monsieur will perceive, therefore, that a simple Spanish creole girl can have no pretensions to the accomplishments which would befit a gay lady from the French capital, and he would soon tire of the acquaintance he seeks, even were I willing to accede to his propositions." 
               "Havana-Martinique," muttered Russell, and again the strange, unaccountable sensation he had experienced in the interval between his first and second interviews, came over him. The voice of the speaker, slightly disguised as it was, seemed familiar to him, and there was the expression of countenance of one with whom he had been familiar in both those places; but then the rich fair locks and the fresh complexion, they were not those of Inez. Can it be possible that she is a relative, he thought. It is as well to satisfy myself at once. 
               "I, too, have visited Havana and Martinique," he said, "and while there had some business transactions with a merchant, Don Thomaso Hibera; perhaps you may be acquainted with him?" 
               The bosom of Emilie heaved with emotion, but she calmed herself, and replied, "I am. Listen," she said, "I have a strange story to tell relative to that family. Some seven years ago, there came a stranger to Havana, sick and poverty-stricken. He sought the house of Senor Hibera for employment-for charity. His appearance was prepossessing, his manners those of a gentleman-of one who had seen better days. He had long suffered from sickness, and was still feeble, and I believe penniless. Senor Hibera pitied his unfortunate condition and believed his story of misfortune. He took him to his country house and bid him remain there a welcome guest until his health was re-established. He was not a Spaniard, but he spoke the language well, and said his mother was of Spanish birth. He called himself Don Felix. Senor Hibera had a handsome daughter, who was accounted the belle of Havana, and this young, confiding girl assisted, as far as lay in her power, the benevolent intentions of her father, and the stranger rapidly recovered his health and strength. I have said his manner and appearance were agreeable; the young girl and he passed much of their time together, while Senor Hibera was at the city on business; and, in a word, the Donna Inez, for that was the name of the young lady, became fascinated with the agreeable stranger, who accompanied her in her walks, and sang with her, and told her tales of other lands. He, on his part, appeared to entertain sentiments of affection for the young and pretty Inez. He whispered his tale of love in her too willing, too confiding ear, and she believed him. She trusted, and was betrayed. Don Felix was a villain." 
               Russell started, and his features betrayed his emotion. 
               "Ha! well may you start, Monsieur, to hear of crime such as this; crime, which, so far as the guilty perpetrator is concerned, the world thinks lightly of; but which it visits with severe retribution on the head of the often innocent victim-innocent in all but the too great weakness of listening to the wiles of her betrayer. She is scorned, spurned, cast away; she became an alien to her friends and family; she suffers contumely and wrong until she sinks beneath it; or, resenting it, the woman's heart within her bosom becomes that of a fiend, and she seeks to lure others to the degradation-the torture of mind-the destruction of body and soul which she has experienced. 
               "Nay, listen yet, Monsieur, for my story is not yet told," continued Emilie, as she saw Russell moving uneasily in his chair. "Listen yet," and she laid her hand upon his arm. "This Senor Felix was a devil in human form, for, not satisfied with betraying the daughter, he robbed her father, Senor Hibera, who owned many vessels trading between Havana and the Island of Martinique. Don Felix was put on board of one as supercargo, not that his services were needed-mark that-but for charity and for the purpose of procuring him respectable employment. It was Inez who had been the cause of this. She it was who had pleaded with the cautious old man and made him give an appointment of great emolument to her lover, and this without security for his honor. She then had fallen, but she did not know then that she had been betrayed. She believed the promises of her seducer, that only his present poverty prevented him from asking her hand of her father. Poor, confiding girl! she took what appeared to her the best way to remedy that poverty. 
               "Don Felix made one or two voyages in the Bonita, Don Hibera's swiftest and handsomest vessel, and at the expiration of the second, Inez pleaded her delicate situation, and besought him to fulfill his promise, especially as he now stood high in her father's estimation. He still delayed, and at the termination of another voyage he urged her to go with him to Martinique, and there to consummate the long-delayed marriage. She consented, not willingly, but it had become now a matter of necessity, if she would hide her shame from the world. She trusted, too, in her father's love for a reconciliation; she feared, if her present situation became known, for the life of her lover. She went, therefore, on board the Bonita, and shortly arrived at Martinique, where the cargo brought from Havana was quickly disposed of. Still the promised marriage was delayed, on plea of hurry in business. At length Inez, who remained secluded on board the vessel, on rising one morning, found that the sails were all set, and the Bonita was gliding swiftly out of the bay. She upbraided Felix with his treachery, and threatened the vengeance of her father and relatives; but now her threats and entreaties were alike laughed at. There was something strange too in the appearance of the crew and the cargo of the vessel, which she could not understand. The crew was far more numerous than was required by the urgencies of the vessel, and they appeared generally a bold and reckless set. Days and weeks flew by; the wind was fair-the weather was favorable, and the Bonita should long before have been at anchor beneath the Moro Castle; but still, day after day, nothing but the clear expanse of ocean met her anxious gaze. She guessed the truth at last, for her questions were unanswered or met with taunts. The vessel had been seized by her villanous lover and his accomplices, and was bound to the Congo coast for a cargo of slaves. The Bonita arrived at length at her destination, and received on board several hundreds of poor manacled wretches, who were taken to the coast of South America and sold, excepting those, amounting to a hundred or more, who had sickened and died on the passage. Inez, too, was left there friendless and destitute; for she refused money from the wretch who had betrayed her, and then, tired of her, or annoyed at the grief of which he had been the cause, had basely left her to live or perish, as the case might be, in giving birth to an infant in a foreign land. But from strangers, who knew her not, but who listened to her tale of wrongs and pitied her, she met with that kindness and attention for many months denied her by him to whom she had surrendered all-who owed all he possessed to her. The child was born, and, thank Heaven! it shortly after died. Inez possessed some jewelry, and this she sold and paid the debts she had contracted. She dared not return home. She came to America. Unused to work, she was here for years almost in a state of starvation, gaining a wretched subsistence by her needle. Used to luxury and wealth and homage at home, she could the less endure poverty and scorn. Still, for a long time, her virtue, her moral feelings,-call it her pride, if you will,-saved her from falling into the lowest degradation of guilt; yet she was beautiful, and consequently sorely tempted. At length work failed at the establishment in which she was employed-failed purposely, I believe-and poor Inez was reduced to the last verge of starvation. Again temptations were held out-temptations which would give abundance, even wealth to her who had so long known poverty; and in a luckless moment she yielded-became one of the outcasts of her sex! Need I say more? She is now in this city!" 
               "Poor Inez," said Russell, who had struggled hard to maintain his composure during this narrative, "Poor Inez. I knew her well, but was not aware of the scenes she had gone through; and she is in this city, you say. Can you tell me where she can be found; and may I ask, fair Emilie, how you became acquainted with her history?" 
               "You know her well, but was not aware of her wretchedness! Liar! see here-Inez stands before you, and knew you from the first," added she, rising and casting from her head the false hair already spoken of, and rubbing the rouge from her checks. "False, perjured villain, Inez, whom you probably thought dead, stands before you, to upbraid you-aye, perhaps to denounce you; but at present I have need of you. I have ascertained that you lodge at Delmonico's," she added, now speaking rapidly in Spanish, while her brilliant eyes flashed fire, her nostrils distended, and her lips quivered with emotion. 
               "See that you remain there, for you are watched; and if you attempt to leave the city, a prison and a felon's doom await you. Now, sir, go, and to-morrow morning at nine o'clock, see me here again." 
               Russell essayed to speak, but the haughty beauty (for Inez was still beautiful at the period of which we speak) forbade. She pointed her finger to the door, stamped her small foot impatiently, and again uttered the words, "Go, sir, go!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               Russell left the house in Walker-street in no very angelic temper. He walked moodily along until he reached his hotel; but he could not rest there, and he again strolled out and sought a notorious gambling-house, then, we believe as now, located in the vicinity of Park Place. Here he rushed into the excitement of the play that was going forward, and won no inconsiderable sum of money, for he was an adept in every species of gambling. 
               At midnight he sought his hotel, and retired to rest, and notwithstanding the excitement to which he had been subjected during the evening, slept soundly until eight o'clock the following morning. His first thoughts on rising were on the events of the preceding day. 
               "Confound that jade Inez," he said; "then that Portuguese nurse has deceived me, although I paid her well. The sleeping draught I gave her for Inez, had it been duly administered, would have proved a quietus, or I have studied medicine for nothing. She never took it; either the nurse did not administer the potion, or the girl suspected me and refused to swallow it. I wish I knew how it was. However, I am in a tight scrape now, and one that I can't at present see my way clear through; but I have got out of more difficult ones, and must trust to my devil's luck to escape this. D--n the newspapers; the very first one I take up in the country after an absence of ten years from home, furnishes me with the pleasing intelligence that my vessel has been chased by a man-of-war, through the rashness of my lieutenant, and leads me into the presence of one who knows too much for my safety or hers; one or the other of us must go to the wall. I thought she was long ago under the sod in the Brazils, but she has come here to breathe her last in a colder clime. Well, I won't wait till the winter comes on; the cold weather of a New-York winter must be too much for the delicate frame of this southern plant; so before that I must find means to send her to a hotter place. Ha, ha! 
               "She interferes with my present arrangements, though, most confoundedly. I wonder what she can want with me this morning. I don't think she will denounce me to the authorities unless I provoke her; so I must not do that. Well, I will be guided by circumstances. In the first place, it is my interest to remain in the city, and then, if I were to attempt to leave it, I have no doubt the jade would keep her promise, and cause me to be arrested. I know these Spanish girls too well, not to be aware that they will spare no time, nor expense, nor trouble, to effect a purpose they have set their minds upon. I would attempt to make up the quarrel, for the girl is beautiful, but that would spoil my schemes; besides, perhaps she would not consent." 
               In such self-communion as this, the time passed away until the hour of the pre-arranged appointment was at hand, when Russell started off in the direction of Walker-street, which he reached punctual to the moment which had been agreed upon. This time, however, he did not see Donna Inez; the maid brought him down stairs a note in which was written in Spanish: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Emilie -- has passed an indifferent night's rest, after the exciting scene of yesterday, and cannot be seen this morning. This evening, Mr. Russell will receive a letter at his hotel, which he will read carefully, and await the future pleasure of 
                           
                              "Donna INEZ DE HIBERA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "This is cool enough, certainly," said Russell, as he left the house. Mr. Russell will await the future pleasure of Donna Inez de Hibera! Well. Donna Inez herself awaits the future pleasure of Mr. Russell. So we are even so far as that goes; now for a walk to cheer my drooping spirits, for they are somewhat cut up with the late unexpected trouble, then to dinner, and then to see Frank and get my plans into operation, and then again to act according to circumstances." 
               We will pass over the intervening hours, and at seven o'clock in the evening we find Frank seated in the hall at Delmonico's Hotel, chatting with his friend of former years. 
               "Well, Frank," said the latter, "I have determined, after mature deliberation, to renew the practice of my profession in this city, and I must trust to your kindness for an introduction to such families as you are acquainted with, who will be useful under the circumstances. You are intimate with Mr. --, the gentleman whose daughter you are desirous of marrying. You say he is a moneyed man; I know him to be a man of influence, and an introduction would be of great advantage to me. That, in the first place. Then again I have some little fancy to see this young lady whose charms you vaunt so highly. This introduction will lead to others, and so I shall be helped onward in my new start." 
               "Well, I have no doubt the thing could be arranged; I will speak to Mr. -- to-morrow, stating the circumstances under which you are about to commence business, and relating your past history, that is to say, so far as I know anything about it, for you have not let me into your secrets nor even told me how you have been spending the last ten years of your wanderings. Come, let's have the promised story." 
               "It may be told in half a dozen words. I went, as you know, on board a whaler a surgeon and loblolly-boy in general; that lasted two years; I landed in Pernambuco, homeward bound; got a better chance on board an Indiaman in the harbor, whose surgeon had died; received my 'lay' from the captain of the whaler; made two voyages in the India-man; then got a berth on board an English East India Company's ship in a similar situation; visited the entire coast of the East Indies; got tired of that after I had made a good bit of money; went to England in a trader, still as surgeon; traveled over the Continent speculating a little now and then; took it into my head to see New-York once more, before my hair began to grow gray. So I took passage for America and me voila!" 
               "Well, Russell, that's concise enough at all events, if not remarkably interesting. And now you have sown your wild oats you intend to settle down and become a steady member of the healing art in the Empire city. I am glad of it, and, as I said, will take great pleasure in introducing you to my friend, if that will further your purpose; but it's growing late, I must be off home. Good night. I will speak to Mr.-to-morrow; so hold yourself in readiness for a visit in the course of a day or two." 
               "Good night, Frank, and success to your matrimonial speculations. 
               "Poor fool! if you introduce me into your nice family circle, the girl's money or a portion of it shall be mine, and the girl too, or my luck has deserted me. You are welcome to her, though at secondhand, if that will suit you," was the soliloquy of Russell, as Frank passed up Broadway. 
               "A letter for Mr. Russell," said one of the waiters, as Russell had passed into the sitting-room. 
               "Thank you," said he, as receiving the letter he at once retired with it to his own room. He locked the door, and then commenced the perusal of the missive. Its contents were in Spanish, but we translate it as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "Senor Don Felix-
                            
                           "She who now addresses you is perfectly aware of the whole of your wickedness and duplicity, from the day when you turned adder-like upon those who aided you in the hour of sickness and disasters, and probably saved your life. When under the guise of love-love! how I sicken at the name of love now-you won the affections and procured the ruin of one who, but for your satanic wiles-aye, but for your subsequent depravity of soul, I may say-might, yes, would have been the comfort and happiness of a doting but now heart-broken father-might have been the happy wife of a fond husband-the loving mother of a numerous and beauteous offspring; one who now is a despised creature on earth, loathing herself and scorned by the virtuous of her sex. I know your career as a pirate and slaver, a murderer and robber, on the great deep, subsequent to your cruel desertion of me and your unborn infant, on the coast of Brazil. I know that it is in a vessel that belongs to my father you have pursued your nefarious course. I know that a deadly drug was given to my nurse, in order to carry off the victim of your sensuality and the chief witness of your crimes. Your design was frustrated by means you wot not of-means that I have at my command, which have enabled me to follow you from year to year, to hear of all your actions, even when you thought them most secret-means that will still enable me to pursue the course I have marked out. As a proof of my power, and to show you this is no vain boasting, call to mind the frustration of your infamous designs in Clarence Bay, in the Island of Fernando Po. You thought that was a secret to the world, but it was known to me; and now judge whether you can escape my vigilance. I knew you were in this city, although I did not intend to make myself known to you so soon. I know your intentions here, and your victims shall be warned. 
                           "Why do I not denounce you? I will tell you why. Partly because I once loved you, and I am still woman enough, fiend as you have made me, to have some feeling of compunction on that score. You were the father of my child; but chiefly I do not denounce you because I hold a sweet revenge in my hands, which shall enable me to baffle all your schemes, or at least to render many of your villanies harmless to others, and cause them to recoil upon your own head. 
                           "Act contrary to that which I bid you to do; quit this city without my permission, and I do denounce you. I have my proofs. Cuba will be your destiny and the vile garrote your portion and your desert. Choose then between my behests and an ignominious death. I shall write no more at present. I have said enough and told you enough to show that I am in earnest. 
                           
                              "INEZ DE HIBERA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Russell sat motionless for some time after he had perused the above epistle. He was astounded. He might have laughed at the threats, but had she not told him of a concerted piece of villany concocted thousands of miles distant, in another hemisphere, and all knowledge of which he believed was confined to his own breast. 
               "She must be put out of the way," at length he said. "Curse her! she must be put out of the way. The chance is desperate, but I cannot exist in this state of torture. How to manage it, that is the thing. I could not entice her abroad to commit murder. Murder! Yes, I shrink not at the silly word. At her own house it would certainly lead to discovery. Cannot poison by some means be infused into her food? Chemistry is a subtle agent for good and for evil, and I could so manage it that suspicion would never enter the mind of a living being; but how to get it into her possession. There's the difficulty. I must sleep on it. Murder-it is no murder. It is my life against hers. It is an act of self-defence." 
               And with this piece of sophistry upon his lips, the desperate man sought his pillow. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               Strange dreams haunted the slumber of Russell that night. He was in fancy a boy again, and had just left the house of his mother to go on a distant journey. He seemed to have no definite object in view; whither he was going he knew not, but the journey he must go. He set out cheerfully, but soon missed his path, and became entangled in briar and bushwood, when a heavy haze dimmed the atmosphere and obscured his vision. While vainly seeking to penetrate its sombre depths, it gradually lifted from the earth and disclosed two paths, the one leading across green fields, fresh with the bright verdure of spring, and spangled with butter-cups and daisies; the other across a desert of sand, dreary and in-hospitable in appearance, but on the way were spread magic heaps of gold, and silver, and diamonds, and precious jewels, which ever and anon those who traveled the path turned aside to gather, and there were revels and wine, and beautiful women, who ministered to the comforts and pleasures of the travelers. As they journeyed on, some grew faint with the weight of the treasure they had collected, and these were robbed by the more sturdy travelers, who beat and cuffed them and left them bleeding on the path; yet still their fellow voyagers passed on, unheeding them, for in the distance appeared a molten sea of golden store and sparkling treasure, more gorgeous in its aspect than the wakening fancy can conceive, and to this the travelers hurried on, only feeling the more anxious to reach the glittering treasure in the distance, the more they were encumbered with that which they had already gleaned on their way; and Russell dreamed he chose this path, yet he turned with a sigh from the refreshing verdure and the sweet perfume of the wild flowers that in the first instance seemed to tempt the traveler who started on the journey. But was there not gold to be gleaned, and treasure inexhaustible to be secured at the journey's end, while the other path led but to a shepherd's humble cot and pastoral fare-the fresh fruits of the earth, and the pure liquid from nature's fountain? He chose the golden desert path in this dream, and hurried on his way, gleaning treasure here and there, until it became a burden to him to bear; and taking from those who were weak, and giving himself up to the unbridled license of the toilers in their brief hours of leisure-drinking deep of the wine cup, and plunging into all imaginable debauchery. Yet still, when he awoke from the fitful trance into which his dissipation had cast him, his longing eyes fixed greedily upon the molten sea of gold which glittered yet more vividly, the more the eyes were fixed upon it, and the more earnest the desire grew to reach it; and, at length, it was reached, and headlong the eager travelers plunged into it, jostling and overthrowing each other in their eagerness; but from those already there, arose despairing yells, and shrieks of agony and terror, for this delusive sea of gold was, in reality, molten brimstone, and the glittering jewels were the fiery, glowing eyeballs of demons. When some saw this, they would have stayed themselves and turned back, but they had gone too far-they were trampled on and urged forward by those in the rear, who were hastening to unexpected destruction. He was one among those who would have retraced his steps, but he could not; into the fiery sea he plunged, while demons yelled and screamed with delight around him. His eyeballs were starting from his head; his swollen tongue clave to his palate; he essayed to speak, but his lips refused to perform their office, and he writhed in unutterable agony, too great for endurance, and rendered still more terrible by the sight in the distance of the cool pastures in which those who had taken the other path were reposing themselves, at their journey's end. He saw there the indistinct forms of some whom he knew, and he strove to call to them, but his efforts were fruitless; he could not give utterance even to his agony. In these efforts he awoke, with his head almost splitting with pain, after the deep debauch he had taken before retiring to rest, in consequence of the excitement of the scenes of the day, and his fevered tongue in reality clove to his mouth. He sprang from the bed, and, seizing the water jug, drank deeply of the refreshing liquid, and bathed his heated brow, and again sought his pillow-for it was yet dark-and as the confused fancies of his sleeping hours came over him, he shuddered as he turned again to compose himself to slumber, and exclaimed, "Thank God, it was but a dream!" 
               He tossed and tumbled in his bed till daylight; he could not be said to sleep, for if he dozed for a moment he woke with a start, as though the nightmare still brooded over him. At length the long-wished-for day dawned, and he sprang from his uneasy couch, and bathing his head in water, proceeded elaborately to dress himself. He had barely completed his toilet when the breakfast bell rang and he descended to the dining-room, and partook lightly of the morning meal. 
               "Now,' said he, when the breakfast was over, and the guests had removed to their various rooms, or gone to their daily occupations, "Now what to do with myself for this day? Frank I shall not see to-day, not till evening at all events; probably not then unless he has managed that introduction, and that is the only thing I care about seeing him for at all; Inez I ought to see and yet I don't know what to do about it. She may send for me. I wish she would; but that is doubtful, and quite as doubtful is it whether she would receive a letter from me or not, knowing that I had written it. That idea, which came across my mind last night-I will think better of it-I am not the man to shrink from my purposes, and yet somehow or other I am fool enough or soft enough to shrink from that. Can I not devise some plan by which I can carry out my views in some other manner, as secure and less dangerous? The deuce is that, by some miraculous means or other, the witch appears to know my motives before I act, or else she has spies about her who dog my footsteps, and who would be apt to let her know anything they might imagine to be suspicious. These Creole girls, they say, can conjure the aid of witchcraft for the purposes of revenge when their love is thwarted; I have often laughed at the joke, but egad! it looks like reality." 
               "When does the steamer sail for the West Indies," said he, suddenly, to a waiter who entered the apartment. 
               "On the 8th of the month, sir." 
               "And this--" 
               "Is the 4th, sir." 
               "Then there is time to write. By Jove, I'll bring the vessel here. She should be here in one month, if I write by this mail. Where to find her is the thing. Most likely she is in some port of the Virgin Islands. De Silva will know at any rate. Waiter!" 
               "Sir," replied that functionary. 
               "Fetch me writing materials, quick, and then look in, in half an hour. I shall want to send to the post-office." 
               Pens, paper and sealing-wax having been brought, Russell sat down and penned in Spanish the following note to Don Jos de Silva, of Havana: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "DELMONICO'S HOTEL, BROADWAY N. Y., June 4th, 184-.
                            
                           
                              "Sr. Don Jose:-Please, without the least delay, to dispatch the inclosed letter to Eurico de Palmos, and at the same time furnish him with such amount of bills of exchange or cash, as will enable him to get on board a hundred tons of cargo from some of the islands; I don't care what it is. I have need for the Bonita here, and it won't do for her to come empty. It would raise suspicion. Yours, by, the token of the 'Secret Compact.' 
                           
                              H.R.-FELIX DE CARVARHAL."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This letter, which was inclosed, was addressed to "Captain Enrico de Palmos, Brig Bonita,-," leaving the address to be filled up by Don Jos de Silva. 
               It ran as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "NEW-YORK, June 4th, 184-. 
                              "Caro Enrico:
                            
                           "Upon the receipt of this note, and the accompanying package from De Silva, you will forthwith proceed, wherever you may now be, to some port in the West Indies where you can procure a cargo of logwood or dyewood of some kind or other. I say logwood, because it can be procured at little cost, and more readily, perhaps, than any other cargo. Falmouth or Montego Bay will be good places to try at, provided there are no men-of-war lurking about, which may be too inquisitive. Unship your guns at one of the rendezvous in the first place, and then bend on the traders' suit of sails, and give the vessel a rough coat of black paint-you know what I mean. Make her look as little as possible like what the Bonita ought to be like. In fact, convert her pro tempo into a merchantman. You can leave all the darkeys at the rendezvous, just keeping on board a crew of half a dozen picked men. Take on board what quantity of cargo will suit, according to your own judgment; about a hundred tons, I should think, would answer, with our own ballast. You had better leave the provisions and the main portion of the ship stores at the depot, only bringing along with you sufficient to last the trip to New-York. I have work for Bonita here, so I shall expect you forthwith. 
                           "I read in the N. Y. Herald, a day or two since, of your having been chased by a Queen's ship. I fear, Enrico, you are too venturesome. Be chary while you are among the islands. I would like to have been aboard too, when you slipped so cleverly away from the frigate. But be more cautious, my dear fellow. Put on a demure, plodding, merchant-sailor look for a few months, and we will make up for it when we get into blue water. 
                           "Your friend according to the secret compact, binding us as brothers, 
                           
                              "FELIX DE CARVARHAL."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               These letters were written and dispatched; and then, utterly at a loss how to dispose of the rest of the day, and with his breast freed temporarily from the burden of the contemplated crime of the previous evening, and his spirits buoyed up by the hopes of the success of another deeply-laid scheme, Russell determined to brave a visit to the fair Inez. He accordingly proceeded to Walker-street, and rang the door bell of the house in which she occupied apartments. A handsome, pert-looking lad answered the summons for M'lle. Emilie. Russell presented his card, which the youth took from him, not, however, without an evident appearance of constraint. Russell waited a considerable time in the hall, and at length Annette, the waiting-maid of Donna Inez, appeared, and desired him to walk to her mistress's room. 
               Emilie, or rather we should say Donna Inez, rose to receive her visitor. 
               "Don Felix," she said, "pray to what am I indebted for the honor of this visit? Have you any business of special importance with me, or do you purposely intend to disobey my injunctions, and dare to trifle with me? I sent you a letter, Senor, in which, unless your senses are not so keen as they used to be, I showed you plainly enough that you were in my power. I desired you to await my pleasure. To what, then, I repeat, am I indebted for this unexpected visit?" 
               Inez stood, calmly and composedly awaiting a reply. Not a nerve quivered, not a muscle moved of her slender, upright and graceful form, and the very firmness she displayed aided to unnerve the already discomfited Russell. 
               "Donna Inez," he at length said, "there has been ill blood between us, and I confess that the fault is mine. Let us again be friends. I will, if you like, restore you to your father, or make you my wife here in this city, and by making such a compact let us determine that by-gones shall be by-gones. What say you to my proposition?" 
               "Senor Felix," replied Inez, "It would be but right if I were to call for assistance, which I could soon procure, and have you ejected from this house, and then consign you to the Tombs; but I have too much scorn and contempt for you to think you worthy of such an exercise of the power I hold over you. You would make me your wife, Senor? 
                  You, the base betrayer, would return the betrayed to her friends? Go to! Senor, you are fool as well as villain. Your wife, base, heartless wretch! I would not be, if the gates of hell were yawning to receive me on my refusal. Return to my home and friends the wretched, degraded being you have made me, I would not, though my degradation could be hidden for ever from all the world but myself; and shall I tell you more? The words you now utter are lies. You have no such intentions as that of which you speak; you feel my power over you, and would rid yourself of the sword that hangs suspended above your head, ready to fall at a beck of my finger. You would give me another sleeping draught, Senor Felix, or perhaps you believe that your secrets would be safe in the ocean's depth. Tell me, Senor, for what purpose is it that you have, this morning, sent orders for the Bonita to come round to New-York?" 
               Russell started, and turned pale with surprise, we might almost say with terror. 
               "You start, Senor! Know, from what I have told you this morning, that I am cognizant of your most secret actions; that you cannot move without my knowledge-and also, Senor Don Felix, that I can divine your most secret thoughts. It is this power which I hold over you which enables me to spare you. If that power were less secure, I could and would crush you as I would a noisome insect. You can leave my room, Senor, and as you value your liberty and life, dare not again to visit me unless I send you word that such is my desire." 
               Russell had nothing to do but to make his exit, cursing in his heart his unlucky star which had led him into such a predicament. 
               "How, in the name of wonder," he asked himself, "does this woman become possessed of her knowledge of all my actions? D-tion! spies she cannot employ to such an extent as that. I shall begin to think that the d--l has de serted me and gone over to my enemies; Satan could hardly make such a blunder, though, for I mean to do him good service yet. 
               "Yet, what an air of imperious beauty the haughty wench can assume when she chooses! She would not make a bad mistress for a rover. I was a fool to cast her off as I did; but then that child was, I thought, in the way. If the thing could be managed-for, after all, I believe there is but some secret trickery about this professed ubiquity-it would be well enough. I should have two wives instead of one-one haughty, imperious as the eagle; the other gentle, timid, and yielding as the dove. Either would suit according to my mood, and I could get rid of either or both when it suited my fancy or my necessities. Ha! ha! the idea is a good one. 
               "Take care! my haughty mistress, take care! or your pride may be humbled. 
               "I will carry out my present plans at any rate, in spite of fate, let what will come of them." 
               Thus communing with himself the young man reached his hotel, where he found a note from Frank, requesting him to prepare for the promised introduction on the following evening. 
               "This works well," he said, as he read the note. "It would not do to be crossed in every way. I will take this as a good omen. Frank will not be here to-night, so I may as well retire early to bed, for last night I got but little rest. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               When Russell awoke on the following morning, after having attired himself with the utmost care-for, like many of his class, his taste in dress was unexceptionable-he proceeded to arrange in his own mind the programme of his future action. 
               He was a cautious villain; possessed of a strong constitution, he freely indulged in every kind of debauchery whenever he felt so inclined, and, as yet, his constitution, nor even his personal appearance, had suffered by these excesses. He plunged into dissipation with the utmost gusto; but he was guarded when he had any object in view which required a clear head and a bright countenance to carry it through. He knew the penalty of debauchery, though, perhaps, unfortunately for him, it did not entail any lasting unpleasant results; but it had still its penalty in the heated skin and the headache of the following morning, and unhinged him throughout the ensuing day. On this occasion, therefore, he had prudently abstained from "potations pottle deep," and retired to bed at a seasonable hour, in a condition of perfect sobriety, and had arisen, after a few hours' slumber, fresh as a lark, to carry out his plot. 
               He was, as we have already said, a handsome fellow, and we have no doubt that many of our readers have already recognized the portrait we have heretofore sketched out. True, constant exposure for years to a tropical sun had tinged his cheek with a deep-seated brown, and given him the appearance of having seen more years than he could in reality count; but this sun-burnt cheek was in agreeable contrast with a broad, high, white forehead, while his jet-black hair and whiskers served as a foil to his dark complexion. His stature was tall, and his frame slender, but knit in athletic mould. He had been eminently successful hitherto in his amours, and this success had given him confidence, until he had conceived the idea, common to men of his class, that he had but to look and win. 
               As to his motive for seeking the introduction to Miss ---, the belle to whom Frank Morton was paying his addresses, it is, perhaps, inexplicable. The main portion of the facts from which we have written this narrative, we had from his own lips, under circumstances that will be developed as our story progresses, but which it would be out of place to speak of just now. Motives of delicacy to certain parties, now no more, caused us, until now, to keep our lips sealed as regards the facts which it is our intention to narrate, and which will be in the recollection of hundreds in this city. The causes which have kept us silent, now no longer exist; and while, in publishing this history, we cannot hurt the feelings, even of those now living, who have suffered from the evil deeds of this desperate man, at any rate, as a warning, the publicity which we now give to a sad record of duplicity and crime, may be productive of benefit. 
               So far as we know, then, Russell-we have for obvious reasons not given the real name of the man-had no special pre-arranged motive for making the acquaintance of Mr.-, or his beautiful daughter. His motive was, in the first instance, perhaps, mere vanity, and the desire, that had become a passion with him, to effect the ruin of any lovely female he came across-the vicious pleasure thence derived being doubly enhanced in his depraved soul by the knowledge that, in injuring the reputation of the female, he was at the same time obscuring the happiness and darkening the future life of those whom he professed to call his friends-those at least who believed him to be a friend of theirs; so true it is that the mind, once entirely given up to depravity, feeds on the guilt that, in early stages, before conscience had entirely fled, could not be committed without leaving a heart-sting behind. 
               Probably, when he once had contemplated the course he was now so eagerly pursuing, he had commenced to sum up the advantages to be gained from it, and the wealth of the father of the young lady might have been another temptation, and the reputed beauty of the young maiden herself a third cause to lead him to sacrifice professed friendship, the ties of schoolboy days, and the esteem of the few friends who were still ignorant of his career, and falsely confident of the integrity of his character. 
               Be this as it may, he made every endeavor to render himself as presentable as possible, and in the course of the forenoon a livery servant left a card at Delmonico's, requesting the pleasure of Mr. Russell's company to dinner at five o' clock, at Mr.-s, Fifth Avenue. 
               About four o' clock Frank called on his friend, and the two started off together in a carriage to the house of their entertainer. 
               Mr.-, in the kindness of his heart, and in the belief that it might eventually prove advantageous to the prospects of the young man, whom he believed desirous of getting a fair standing in his profession in this city, had invited a select circle of friends to meet his favorite clerk and his friend. Several respectable and wealthy merchants were at the house, with their wives and daughters, and some half-dozen pair of bright eyes and ruby lips adorned the drawing-room; but, without exaggeration, there were none present who could vie with Miss-, the betrothed of Frank Morton, and the light and pride of her father's hospitable mansion, in all that constituted the perfection of female loveliness. 
               Miss-, at the period of which we write, was about nineteen years of age. She was of middle feminine stature, slender and sylph-like, but far from attenuate in figure; on the contrary, her limbs were beautifully moulded, and her every motion was graceful and elastic. Her complexion was exceedingly fair, and her eyes large, blue and liquid; and she presented the rare and singular contrast, with these blonde perfections, of possessing hair of a raven blackness-long, profuse, and glossy as silken thread. Her forehead was finely moulded-of a moderate height, but rather broad at the temples; her nose of Grecian form-for a female, the most beautiful; and her mouth sweetly formed, and ornamented with small, pearly teeth, of dazzling whiteness and purity, in charming contrast with her ruby and slightly parted lips. Her chin was small and rounded, and rather prominent than otherwise, and her throat and bust the perfection of girlish beauty. We have been thus minute in the portrait of this young lady, because it is drawn from life. We have seen her and acknowledged the power of her charms, and at the same time done homage to her virtue and goodness. We have called her the betrothed of young Morton; but in this we were wrong. She, no doubt, at this time, entertained a decided preference for him over wealthier and even handsomer suitors; but, so far as we know, no promises had been interchanged between the parties, although we are well aware that Frank Morton loved the beautiful girl to distraction. 
               When Russell chose he could make himself a delightful companion. His powers of intellect were certainly adapted to higher purposes than those to which he had prostituted them, and his extensive reading and extended travel, had made him master of a fund of information, which, by the aid of a manly and agreeable voice, and a pleasing and courteous manner, gave double point to his lively anecdote. 
               It must be confessed that he entirely eclipsed Frank, and succeeded in gaining the admiration of the whole party. Poor Frank was delighted with his friend's success. Poor fellow! he little thought that that night the first blow had been struck at the foundation of the Chateau d'Espagne he was building, and which would never cease until it had demolished the fairy edifice and buried the happiness of its sanguine projector in the ruins. 
               Poor Frank! He now lies buried beneath the sod in Greenwood Cemetery, and still his tomb is visited and his memory cherished by those who perceived his manly, truthful traits of character while living-who saw them in much bolder relief when he had gone from them forever. 
               But we are anticipating our story. 
               The two young men left the mansion together, after Russell had taken a kind leave of the worthy host, and pressed with delicacy, yet, perhaps, with more warmth than Frank would have been pleased with, had he known it, the fair, pretty hand of Emma. 
               But was Frank Morton jealous?-O no! he was too honest and open-hearted-too free from the influences of the green-eyed monster himself to believe in the existence of jealousy. 
               He was enthusiastic in the encomiums on the magnificent hospitality of his friendly employer, and too proud of the beauty, and virtue, and accomplishments of Emma, to omit any opportunity of speaking of either. 
               "What do you think of Mr.-, Jack?" he said, as they leisurely strolled down Broadway towards their lodgings, about 11 o'clock in the evening; "and was I not right in calling Emma a beautiful creature, and she is as good, too, as she is handsome, and so accomplished; did you ever see a girl more fitted to make a loving wife?" 
               "I think Mr. -- the pink of an American merchant, Frank," replied Russell; "and that is saying much, and the perfection of a New-York merchant, and that is saying more; but as to Miss --; I mustn't say Emma, eh! Frank?-she's an angel in disguise. I give you credit for your taste, Frank-egad, you look to a lofty prize. Are you not afraid some one will pluck the fruit in its early freshness, while you are waiting for it to ripen to its full development?" 
               "No, I can trust to Emma's faithfulness. This I know: if she loves me as I do her, there is no fear that any one can intervene and separate us; and although dear Emma has never actually told me so, I truly believe she does." 
               Had Frank at this moment glanced at the expression of Russell's eyes and seen the curl of his lip, he would have perceived a demon-like sneer that would have bid him beware of taking the false, perjured, heartless villain to his heart as a friend and confidant. Had he seen the fiend-like scowl that rested on the brow of the young man who had lately been the Apollo of the drawing-room circle, perhaps his after sorrows would have been spared; perhaps he might now have been living and happy; perhaps-but no, we will not anticipate our story; suffice it to say he did not perceive this, nor dreamed that his friend could have feelings that were otherwise than honest and openly displayed towards himself. 
               It was but the passage of a momentary dark cloud across the sunbeam, although that sunbeam was but a reflected light-was false. In a few moments all traces of the scowl had passed away, and Russell was, to appearance, the same happy, reckless, amiable fellow he could appear to be when he chose to do so. 
               The young men walked on, chatting of these and other indifferent matters, until Frank turned down Warren-street, where his boarding-house was situated, and Russell, after wishing him good-night, pursued his way to his hotel alone. 
               "Well," he said to himself, "the matter is settled now; the thing was merely half a joke at first. I thought I might raise money through the old gentleman, and I wished to see the girl Frank talked so lightly of; but now, if I invoke all the powers of darkness to my aid, the girl is mine by fair means or foul. Shall Inez prevent me? Let her do her worst. I thought Inez beautiful. Psha! She can no more compare with Emma than the dusky Ethiop to the fair Circassian. How could I ever have been entranced by the charms of such a thing as Inez; but I'll have both now. One for love, the other for revenge. Isn't the idea glorious? Ha, ha! and then that poor simple soft fool, Morton. By-there's plenty of women to be found good enough for such as he. It would be throwing pearls before swine to bestow Emma upon his cold-blooded love. She is the very creature for a rover's wife; a nursery doll to toy with when tired of the rough scenes a skimmer of the seas has to encounter, and the rougher brutes a gentlemanly rover has to associate with. She would sweetly adorn the cabin of the Bonita, could the thing be managed. 
               "If Frank were actually married, I would commence my practice of the medical profession by extracting his 'false rib.' Ha, ha! I practice the medical profession, forsooth! Yes, for a month perhaps, till my schemes are ripe. Satan must have a glorious time of it, setting men by the ears and bringing them to vice and misery, and I'm an apt pupil of the old boy. Once I was different, and almost as great a spoony as my good Frank; but that day is gone by never to return, and when was I happier than I am now? Well, that's my own business. I'm not going to turn moralist now. Here's the hotel; now to bed, and to dream of Emma and love, Inez and revenge." So saying, he entered the portico of Delmonico's hotel. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               During the few weeks that succeeded the occurrences chronicled in our last chapter, the wily Russell improved to the fullest extent the opportunity that he had acquired of making himself agreeable to Miss --, and we are sorry to add that he only too well succeeded. His off-hand and dashing manners, his handsome exterior, and his varied accomplishments, proved too strong a temptation to poor Emma to resist. Not that we would have it understood that she was guilty in her admiration of the fascinating stranger, but she wavered in her pre-conceived attachment to Frank Morton. In this she was really not to blame, for she had not, however Frank may have construed her friendship, ever felt a stronger affection for him than that of friendship. She might herself have thought it love, but as yet the flame of love in her heart was wavering and incipient, and whither it might settle, although there it would assuredly burn with the fiercest intensity, was at present a mystery. 
               Thoroughly versed in the intricacies of the female heart, Russell was quick to perceive the advantages he had gained, and, as we have said, careful to improve them. He knew that he was admired, and, he was aware that admiration often deepened into love. Not that he really cared for her love, but he felt that it was necessary to gain it to insure the perfect success of his plans. His own purposes carried out, and to him all other interests, however they might involve the wreck of the happiness of others, were to him as naught. 
               And where was Inez de Hibera during this lapse of time? The fair Emilie of Walker-street was pursuing her accustomed routine of empty pleasure, the life and soul-with her broken English and ready wit-of a circle of dissipated rous-the gayest of the gay in the mid-night revel. But Donna Inez in her own private apartments was a silent, proud, sad, heart-broken woman. Few who were acquainted with the sparkling courtesan-who will be recollected by many persons from certain incidents which we have narrated as the rage among a certain class of exquisites five years ago-dreamed that in her own room, in commune with her own thoughts, the true woman mourned the guilty life she led, wept over her sad failings, and bemoaned her unhappy fate, while she loathed herself, and felt as an electric thrill, through the mere force of fancy, that all the good and virtuous of her sex despised her. The germ of virtue was blasted, but not destroyed, and could it have found congenial soil, would again have bloomed, not in its own virgin purity, but so fairly that the world would not have known that a worm was eating at the core. The sad secret would have remained with herself. But such was not to be; Inez was more sinned against than sinning, but she had to pay the full penalty of her sins. How many are there in this city in her position! 
               Inez had not seen Russell during this whole period, nor had any letters passed between them. He dare not intrude upon her privacy again, but yet he felt that she exercised a mysterious influence over him, such as he had felt on the day we first introduced our readers to the guilty pair. He had not seen her, but he felt as though she was ever present, penetrating his secret thoughts, ready to contravene his most adroit movements, until the burden of this feeling was growing insupportable. 
               And Frank Morton! had his eyes been opened to the deceit that was practised upon him? 
               No, we reply. He fancied sometimes that Emma's ready smile of welcome which used to greet him was not so cordial as it was wont to be, and he saw, with a certain indefinable pang, that she appeared to be growing fonder of the company of his friend Russell than of his; but he quickly laid these doubts aside. He was faithful, and he could not doubt Emma's fidelity;-and Mr. --'s; strange obtusity of parents! neither he nor his amiable lady saw the mischief that was at work. True, he was a great portion of the day at his place of business, in Broad-street; but the mother of the young lady, she who should have been her monitor, where was her perception? 
               Meanwhile, the confidence of Frank's employers in their young clerk still increased, and the worldly prospects of young Morton were brightening. Every prospect was held out to him that, before another twelvemonth went round, he would be a partner in the well-known and influential firm in which he was now but a clerk. And Mr. -- had almost intimated to him as much as that, when that period should arrive, he should have free permission to woo, and win, if he could, the consent of the fair Emma to link her fortunes with his. 
               Russell remained at the well-known hotel in Broadway, where he passed a great portion of the day in writing, in his own room. His friends thought he was studying preparatory to the resumption of the duties of his profession. 
               One morning he was sitting in the reading-room of the hotel, after break-fast, looking over the morning papers, when the following paragraph caught his eye in the shipping intelligence of the Tribune. To tell the truth, he had for some days studied the marine intelligence of the journals with great care, and he read as follows: 
               "Arrived off quarantine, yesterday afternoon, brig Bonita, -- master, from Falmouth, Jamaica, 13 days-log-wood-on consignment." 
                
               "My ship, by all that's happy!" he exclaimed. "My bonny bark. Well, I must go down to meet her, and see if I can get any one to dispose of the cargo she brings. I must have her discharged, and all right and tight and all ready for sea in the shortest possible time, and do it all sub rosa, too. 
               "Enrico's a smart fellow, and has managed the business right well. Now, to visit my old ship once more." 
               So saying, Russell stepped lightly from the hotel in the direction of the Staten Island Ferry, with the intention of crossing over to the island and proceeding at once to the quarantine ground. But this delay was spared him, for, as he walked along the Battery, his practised eye readily discerned his own beautiful vessel, the graceful Bonita, coming up under a strong leading breeze and a full head of canvas. 
               Perhaps the happiest feelings he had known for months were experienced in the interval of his first descrying the brig and her coming to an anchor off the city. Ten years of roving life had made him a thorough seaman, without having caused him to forget the mysteries of his own profession, and it was with the pride of a seaman that he gazed upon the beautiful vessel. 
               Her decks had been the arena of many a tragic scene-she was the fruit of robbery, for she had been stolen from his benefactor, Don Hibera, the father of Inez, and the groans of manacled victims had made night hideous on board of her, when pursuing her solitary way in the midst of the Atlantic; the death-shriek of the maddened and fever-struck negro had mingled with the rude laugh and the bacchanalian song of the crew, and with the dreary sough of the midnight breeze; the gurgling death-agony had struck even the savage crew with momentary horror, as the living, breathing bodies of the hopelessly sick had been cast over the side with shot attached to their feet, to the sharks which followed the vessel, and who boldly snatched at their living prey almost as soon as the body had touched the water. These and a thousand other horrors had been perpetrated on board this brig, that was now so gracefully rising and falling to the gentle swell of the river, and which, from her exquisite proportions, seemed a thing of almost living beauty; but all this was, we say, for the moment forgotten, as Russell gazed at the quarter-deck where he had spent so many joyous hours, and saw the trim and neat array of everything on board, although she had been divested of her superfluous ornaments and made to assimilate herself in some degree to the more modest pretensions of a quiet merchantman. Gracefully the brig swung round to her anchor, and the sails being rapidly furled, the lofty tapering spars were seen in all their perfect proportions, and the beauty of the vessel attracted the admiration of all who witnessed her; for the moment, the proud rover chief looked at his vessel with feelings such as a man might have conceived for a darling child, and then, calling a boat, he sprang into it, and ordered the boatmen to put him on board the fresh arrival. 
               Russell, after the natural congratulations had been passed between himself and his subordinates, gave instructions to Enrico how to proceed, without implicating himself, with the vessel. He waited on board until the brig had been towed into a berth at the wharf, where her cargo might be discharged, when he went ashore in high spirits and good humor. 
               What was it that caused him to start and turn pale as he quitted the pier? Among the throng of persons who were on the wharf, gazing at the vessel, he had detected through the thin veil which covered the features, a keen, dark eye, alternately gazing at him and at the Bonita. He knew the figure to be that of Inez. 
               "Curse her! is she ever to be the torment of my life?" was the remark that passed his lips as he walked hurriedly away from the pier. 
               It was a fine evening in July; darkness was just closing over the shores of the river, whose bosom reflected still the last gorgeous rays of the setting sun, mingled with the silvery tints of the moon-beams which glistened on the ripples of the tide. For the first time, Russell had persuaded Emma -- to meet him in the evening, unknown to her parents, for the alleged purpose of crossing the river, and enjoying a walk in the Hoboken fields. For three days past the Bonita had been ready for sea, and she lay at anchor, in ballast, in the centre of the river. Russell pointed her out to his imprudent but confiding companion, as they sped rapidly across the river in the Hoboken ferry-boat. 
               "What a lovely vessel! Mr. Russell," she exclaimed. "I should so like to go on board of her. I have never been on board of a ship." 
               "Would you really like to go on board?" replied Russell; "well, in that case, as I am acquainted with the Captain, we will take a boat from the opposite side and go on board for a short time after our walk." 
               "But, Mr. Russell, it will be so late, and I would not for all the world Pa or Ma should find out that I had been walking alone with you." 
               "Never fear, Emma, I will answer for your return. Your parents shall have no chance to reproach you," said Russell. 
               "Well, then, I will consent to go on board, but only for a short time." 
               "No, love, only for a short time," replied Russell, and the sneer we have before described came over his countenance, but it was unobserved by his fair companion. 
               But among the crowd of passengers might be seen a slender female figure enveloped in a cloak, who closely watched the movements, and listened to the words that passed between Russell and the young lady, while at the same time she kept herself from being seen by them. 
               They landed in this pleasant place of summer resort, and after an hour's walk proposed to return. A boat was seen leaving the vessel and making towards the shore. 
               This movement had been made by a concerted signal from Russell. Four men pulled the boat to the spot where they stood, and Enrico, who was seated in the stern sheets, was immediately hailed as the Captain by Russell, the real chief. 
               "This is fortunate, Captain," he said, "my fair companion was desirous of going on board your vessel, and here is a boat to our hand; may we intrude upon your kindness?" 
               "With pleasure, Senor," said Enrico, who was a pale, delicate-looking youth, with little of the rover in his appearance. 
               Emma was about to step into the boat, followed by Russell, when the same slender figure was seen beckoning two men-policemen-one of whom stepped down to the boat and asked where they were going with the lady. 
               "To the Bonita brig," said Russell; "pull away, men." 
               "Not so fast," said the officer; "I am told it is your intention to abduct this lady against the knowledge of her parents, or even her own consent." 
               "What does this mean?" said Emma, greatly alarmed; "let us go back, Mr. Russell." 
               "Pull away, men," shouted Russell, savagely; "that cursed witch, Inez, is at the bottom of all this." 
               Emma shrieked and fainted, and the two policemen, who had seized the boat, bore her on shore. 
               Mad with rage, Russell leaped on shore, and, with the assistance of the boat's crew, succeeded in overpowering the officers. 
               It was now nearly dark, and the mysterious female who, while the fight had been going on, had succeeded in some measure in bringing the poor young lady to her senses, now besought her to fly, but she was too weak. 
               Quick as thought she covered her with her dark cloak, and seizing the light-colored shawl that Emma wore, she threw it over her own shoulders. 
               "We will both escape, if possible," she said, "but at all events I will save this victim." 
               "That's she, seize her," said Russell to his men, "and bring her on board;" and in a moment Inez found herself seized by four rude men and carried into the boat. Quickly they were pulled on board. 
               "Get under weigh, immediately," shouted Russell. "We have a heavy ransom in this young lady;" and he bore her to the cabin. 
               Here he tore aside the veil of the insensible girl-from the re-action Inez herself fainted-and a curse of baffled rage and disappointment burst from his lips. 
               "Ten thousand curses upon you," he said; "but I will be revenged for this;" and throwing rudely aside the still insensate form, he rushed to the deck. 
               "Hoist all sail-bear ahead, men," he shouted. "We must get clear of this coast as soon as possible." 
               His orders were promptly obeyed; and the vessel was soon hidden from sight by the bluffs of the Narrows. 
               Emma was taken home quietly by the police, and nothing was known of her misadventure, nor, strange to say, did she believe yet in the delinquency of her companion. She thought he was himself the victim of robbers, and long waited his re-appearance. 
               The disappearance of the well-known and beautiful Emilie about this period caused great excitement among the men about town, but this is the first time the true cause of that disappearance has been explained. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               The wind was fair and the night clear; and without a pilot, for Russell would not risk taking one on board, the Bonita was soon clear of the coast of America. 
               But we are getting on a little too fast. Having seen every sail properly trimmed and every measure taken to secure a safe passage through the Narrows-for, although there was no New-York pilot on board, one of the crew, who had been brought up in the New-York coasting trade, knew the bearings and soundings of the channel perfectly well-Russell again descended to the cabin. 
               It was evident that a variety of conflicting emotions were busy within his breast. He stood for some moments with his arms folded and his brow knit, gazing at the senseless from before him; for Inez had not yet recovered from the fainting fit into which she had fallen when she was first carried on board the brig. 
               "It could be easily managed, and nobody be the wiser," he muttered to himself. "I could, I think, trust the crew, and yet, I don't know, a strange feeling comes over me. If it were anybody else-at all events, here she is harmless, and I can afford to laugh at a few tears and upbraidings. If she gets too trouble-some, I must manage some other way." 
               His brow again became clouded, as he walked rapidly to and fro the small cabin. 
               "The cursed jade!" he said between his teeth, "she has cost me all the trouble of my visit to New-York, besides the ransom, a cool $10,000, I should have managed to get out of -- at least, for the restoration of his child, if indeed I ever restored her!" 
               Inez showed symptoms of recovery, and slowly opening her eyes, she seemed, from their vacant and wandering expression, to be unconscious of her position. At length, her gaze rested for a moment upon the figure of Russell, and a slight tremor shook her frame. It was, however, but for a moment-for she seemed to have become endowed with a sudden return of strength, and rising up, she looked upon her persecutor with an air of almost triumphant defiance. 
               Russell, as we have seen, was always daunted by her when she was in this mood. He was daunted now, although he believed her completely in his power. For some moments he stood irresolute how to act. At length he said in a subdued tone of voice:- 
               "Inez, we have met again under different circumstances. You must now be aware that you are in my power; but I do not intend to use it to your harm. I do not attempt to deceive you.-You have baulked me of my prey-foiled me again by your sudden and mysterious action when I least expected it; but I am willing to forget all, and to be friends once more. You refused my proffer the other day when you had the upper hand; I offer it now when the beam of fortune's scale has turned in my favor; again I say, let us be friends in future." 
               Inez listened calmly to his words, still half reclining upon the sofa on which she had been placed when in a state of syncope, for she still felt faint and weak after her late excitement; but, when Russell ceased, she rose from the sofa, and drawing her slender figure up to its full height, she said in a clear, calm voice: 
               "Senor Don Felix, your honeyed words cannot deceive me, neither can you mould your features in opposition to the feelings that are at work within your breast in such a manner that I cannot perceive the duplicity that you vainly seek to veil from me. I am here alone, a poor, weak, heart-broken woman, forsaken of God and man-how and wherefore you know as well as I; but I do not mean to upbraid you; that now were folly; nor to pretend to friendship and lend myself to falsity and deceit, for that is not in my nature, fallen as I am. I tell you, then, I hate and scorn you, as you hate and fear me-yes, fear me, a poor, weak woman, without any protection, not even the slow, dilatory protection of the law itself, for well I know your power here. Your heart bids you put me out of the way; your countenance tells me what is passing within; but there is a secret influence which prevents you from following the dictates of your cowardly soul-even now you cannot meet my gaze, but turn your head away, thus tacitly acknowledging the truth of what I say. Friends!-Senor Don Felix de Carharval, there can be no friendship between such as we. You always possessed the nature of the wolf, his fierceness united with a fox's cunning; and I trusted to you, gave all to you. I could love but one, and love but once. That love would have lasted true till death, but it has turned to bitter hate; you know it, and disguise would be vain on the part of either of us. I know not whither your vessel-my father's vessel-is bound; all I ask is, that you put me ashore on the first coast which you near, be it in what part of the world it may, and while here leave me to myself and my own reflections. They are bitter enough without your presence to aggravate them. I will tell you more. I knew that you had evil designs upon Emma --. I watched you through the whole of your base conduct in that quarter when you had little suspicion that I was near you. You may wonder what was it to me? that I should interpose to prevent your designs, even at the risk of my own life and liberty. I cannot say-I thought I was a devil; but I find that I had some feelings of the woman left still, and I determined, if I had power to save, that she-she who had aided me and spoken kind words to me in my poverty, and given me employment before the days of my shame, should not fall a victim to your seductive wiles. Enough, Senor Don Felix. I have told you my sentiments, your own I know. The only friendship you can show me is to put me on shore-aye, even if it be amid the snows of Greenland or the sands of Africa; I shall hail the hour with joy that rids even me of the contamination of your presence." 
               Russell did not reply. His cowering aspect showed, strange as it may seem, that the words of Inez were true-that by some means, she did possess a secret influence over him. The superstitious may deem it supernatural, but the probability is, that he knew that he had deeply, grossly, unpardonably injured her-blighted the happiness of her future, and thrown a veil, that could never be drawn aside, over the innocence of her past life; while she, fallen as she was, still preserved that haughty, courageous spirit which had given such a charm and fascination to her beauty, in her early youth of innocence and happiness, and which had sustained her above the level of her class even in her bitter hours of degradation. Pity it was that the citadel had been ever left unwatched-that that haughty spirit had not ever been present to prevent the secret entrance of the enemy, under false colors. 
               As we have said, Russell did not reply; he merely inclined his head, and left the cabin to the lady, whose courage again failed her when she found herself alone, and that there was no further immediate occasion for the haughty carriage and the show of spirit and determination which had buoyed her up in the hour of trial. She fell back on the sofa, and, woman-like, found solace and relief in a flood of tears. 
               When Russell reached the deck, he found the coast receding from his view, and the first faint glimmering of the morning sun was tinging the verge of the horizon to eastward. Until that moment, he had given no thought as to the destination of his voyage, and even now he leaned moodily over the railing of the quarter-deck, apparently in deep thought, and utterly heedless of all that was passing around him. The wind was freshening, and it now blew what sailors call a "double-reefed topsail" breeze; still the Bonita was dashing along before it with both top-gallant sails and the main-royal set. He was startled from his reverie by the approach of Enrico, who touched him lightly upon the shoulder to engage his attention, and then said- 
               "Senor Felix, it blows fresh, and the wind seems likely to increase. I looked at the barometer just now, and it is falling very fast. Had we not better shorten sail?" 
               "Mind your own business, Senor," retorted Don Felix, or-as we shall continue to call him by the name we have assumed for him-John Russell. 
               Just as he spoke, the vessel made a terrific plunge into the trough of the rapidly rising sea; her sharp prow was quite buried beneath the boiling surge, and a torrent of water came rushing aft, carrying every loose article on the deck along with it, in its impetuous, irresistible course, wetting thoroughly all hands up to the middle, and pouring in a copious stream into the cabin and down the hatchways and skylights, which had not been battened down; at the same time a loud crack was heard over head, and, on looking up, Russell saw that the main top-gallant mast had gone by the board, and hung, swinging to and fro, by the rigging which attached it to the top-mast. 
               Russell was in a moment aroused to a full sense of the situation of his vessel. Seizing a trumpet which stood in a case near the binnacle, he shouted to his men- 
               "Bear a hand, lads; shorten sail there. Carpenter, get your axe and cut away the wreck. Let go the fore-topsail halliards-and lay aloft-quick, men, two reefs." 
               The orders of their captain were promptly obeyed by the rover's crew, and shortly the Bonita, relieved of her superabundant canvas and the debris of the wrecked spars, floated gracefully as a swan upon the lofty, tumbling billows; not even throwing a drop of water on board. 
               Russell then turned to Enrico, and in a gentle tone of voice, as though ashamed of his recent rough behavior, said: 
               "I don't like the appearance of the weather, Senor Enrico. It would be all well enough if the wind would remain in its present quarter; but, depend upon it, we shall have a change before long. I see the barometer, which fell so suddenly, has again risen, and I fear an easterly gale, which would find us rather inconveniently close to the land. If the present breeze should last for eight or ten hours longer we shall get a good offing, and I should not care if it blew great guns. Give the Bonita sea room and my life for her good behavior; but the poor thing can't be expected to be a match for rocks, shoals and sand-banks upon the coast. However, we will keep all sail set that she will bear while the breeze holds in the present quarter, and heave her to, if there should be a change, as I expect. Not being well acquainted with the tides and currents about here, I should not like to risk clawing off and on, close to the wind, in a strong gale." 
                
               "May I ask, Senor, where we are bound?" said Enrico. 
               "Santa Viergo!" replied Russell, "my good Enrico, I had not thought of that in my hurry to get clear of the cursed port which has been the cause of so many mishaps to me. Whither are we bound, eh? Well, if the devil helps us clear of this coast, we will go to our old haunt upon the Bonny River, and get a cargo of live flesh from King Jack, and perhaps I may make a bargain with his sable majesty which may turn out to good account." 
               "You don't mean any harm to the young lady on board, Senor Capitano?" said Enrico. 
               "No, no, of course not," replied Russell, with one of his sardonic smiles; "of course not. Did you ever know me to be otherwise than gallant to the fair sex, Senor Enrico?" 
               While this conversation had been going on, the wind had lulled, and now it was almost a calm. The ominous silence and the flapping of the lately strained sails against the masts struck both the speakers, and they cast their eyes aloft simultaneously. 
               At this moment a livid sheet of lightning lit up the sky, and a heavy peal of thunder shook every timber of the brig, and even seemed to quell for a moment the turmoil of the angry ocean; and scarcely had its tones died away, before a strong blast from the eastward nearly laid the vessel by the lee. "Hard up with the helm," shouted Russell, while Enrico sprang to the aid of the struggling helmsman, who was almost overpowered by the pressure on the wheel. 
               The vessel was brought to, and then, as Russell anxiously scanned the lurid horizon, he turned to his second in command and said: 
               "It is as I feared; we are in for an ugly gale of easterly wind, and far too close to the shore for our own safety." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               Leaving for a while the Bonita to battle with the furious tempest, and to pursue her way across the broad Atlantic to the sultry coast of Africa, we will return to our New-York friends, whose names are mixed up with our story. 
               Great was the surprise at the hotel where Russell stopped, that he did not return to the house on the evening he left to accompany Miss Emma -- to Hoboken. There were suspicions of foul play at the time, for not an idea entered the head of landlord, or waiter, or boarder, that Russell, the handsome, gentlemanly boarder, had left of his own accord. 
               His bills had been regularly settled every week; his conduct in the hotel unexceptionable. He had given out that his object was to practice his profession in the city, after having traveled over a considerable portion of the globe as a surgeon in the naval and mercantile marine, and he had so prepossessed many persons, who were in the habit of visiting Delmonico's, in his favor, that had such been his real intention, his prospects as a beginner would have been more than usually favorable. Then in his room were two trunks of valuable clothing besides other portable property. In due time, these were opened and examined, but nothing was found that could identify the owner; they were consequently locked and sealed in case of being called for at some future period. A few paragraphs appeared in the "City Items" columns of the newspapers, with the customary caption, "Mysterious disappearance," &C., and there, so far as publicity was concerned, the matter ended, and it was believed that Mr. Russell had met with his death either by accident or foul play. There was soon an end of speculation upon the matter, and Russell disappeared as others have disappeared, and do from day to day disappear in this crowded city, as little thought of after the lapse of a week, even by those with whom he had been in most constant intercourse, as if he had never existed. 
               There were some exceptions, it is true. Mr.-, of the Broad-street firm, before referred to, although he knew nothing definite about the matter, had had, from several causes, his suspicions aroused. He had at first taken a great liking to the young man, but with the shrewd penetration of a man of business, he soon saw various points in his character that did not altogether give him satisfaction; he disliked his increasing intimacy with his daughter, although he was kept in ignorance of the adventure of the evening narrated in the sixth chapter of our story. He was not altogether pleased with Frank Morton for having introduced him into his family, and indeed this displeasure paved the way for future disagreements with, and final dismissal of the once favorite clerk, and was the precursor of the ruin which blighted in the bud all his once flattering expectations. 
               There were others whose intimacy with the circumstances was more definite. Emma -- of course was aware that her lover had disappeared in the ship on board of which she was to have accompanied him on that unlucky evening. 
               We may as well say at once that this poor girl had plighted her troth to the reprobate Russell. She did not believe him in fault in the strange events of that evening, but blamed the young woman who had warned her and risked her own life to save her from destruction. She knew there must be some mystery, and fearful that by mentioning the circumstances she might bring opprobrium upon herself and her lover, she kept her counsel, and let her grief rankle in her own breast. The policemen could have let some light on the matter, but they could have made it no better, and they willingly took the bribe offered by Emma and kept a still tongue in their heads. 
               Poor Frank, who knew in truth nothing about the matter, for Russell had latterly become exceedingly reserved with him, was in reality the scape-goat upon whom all the burden fell. With a singular caprice peculiar to females, Emma, to whom Frank had so long been all in all, now took a positive dislike to him, mixing him up, by some inexplicable reasoning, with all her disappointments, and actually believing in her inmost heart that he was privy to Russell's disappearance. Thus, what with the suspicion and distrust of his employers-for Mr. -- was really the acting partner of the firm-and still more painful coolness of the young girl, who had been the very light of his life, Frank was in a situation not to be envied; and as his life had hitherto been all sunshine, the clouds now gathering around him bore with the greater weight upon him, and almost broke his spirit. He became heedless of his duties, and thus still more alienated the regard of his former friend and benefactor. 
               And Emilie-the fair Emilie of Walker-street, the queen of her unhappy class, the courtesan who, amidst all the degradation of her life, had never stooped to the usual level of her unfortunate sisterhood-who had preserved a refinement amidst all the scenes of libidinous sensuality into which she was forced, that had caused even the exquisites and rous, who live in this class of female society, to mingle respect with their sensual admiration; whose wit, and accomplishments, and intelligence, and beauty, fitted her to adorn a far loftier sphere of life-was she, too, so soon forgotten? 
               Yes, in less than a week, those who had professed to live in her smiles had made her supposed death the subject of lewd jokes; and when, three weeks afterwards, the body of a young female was fished up out of the East River, so disfigured that it could not be recognized, but which was supposed to be she, the affair became the subject of disgusting and cruel jokes around the very table where she had once presided in the full blaze of her charms. 
               After the lapse of some weeks, Frank, whose spirits were, as we have mentioned, completely broken, fell sick and was unable to attend to the duties of his office. His inattention had already attracted the notice of his employers, and one of the junior clerks was appointed to his post as confidential clerk, and a stranger almost immediately appointed in his place. 
               The young man's illness was of a lingering character, for it was more of a mental than a bodily disease; and when, after many weeks, he again presented himself at the counting-house in Broad-street, the following conversation passed between him and Mr. --. 
               "I am sorry to inform you, Mr. Morton," said the latter, "that we have found it necessary to fill up the post you occupied in our house, and that we must at the same time beg you to consider all expectations you may have conceived from our previous disposition towards you to be canceled." 
               Frank was struck with consternation, and ventured, after some minutes' silence, to ask for an explanation. 
               "I was in hopes you would have spared me the pain of an explanation," returned Mr. --. "Your conduct of late, would, I should think, have suggested a sufficient explanation to yourself. You must be aware that you have of late shamefully neglected important business which was intrusted to you, by which we have been losers to the amount of some hundreds of dollars. This we only discovered since you have been confined with sickness. In consideration of your former services, we shall pay you the balance of salary due, $56, and at the same time I express a hope that this may prove a warning to you in any future situation which you may obtain. I would also advise you to be more careful of the company you keep, and beware whom you manage to get introduced into the social circle of families of respectability." 
               Frank took the money mechanically-his heart was too full for him to speak, to say one word in explanation, even if it would have been listened to-and he turned and quitted the counting room, not knowing, and scarcely caring, whither he bent his footsteps. 
               The fresh air in some degree revived him from his stupor, and turning from Broad-street into --, he was stopped for a few moments from crossing the street by a line of carriages. In one of these was seated Emma, with another young lady, with whom he was also acquainted. He fastened his gaze upon Emma. She was as much changed in appearance during the few weeks since he had last seen her as he himself. He drew near the carriage with the intention of speaking to her. As he was stepping off the side-walk for that purpose, both the young ladies turned their faces towards him, and evidently recognized him. He bowed, when a hurried whisper passed between them, and they turned away their heads. 
               The carriage drove on, leaving Frank standing motionless in the middle of the street, whence he was somewhat rudely hustled by a policeman, who pushed him aside just in time to save a cart-wheel from passing over his foot. 
               He turned his head vacantly, and listlessly moved on to the side-walk. He felt as if he should sink into the earth; his heart died within him; he seemed to himself an outcast upon the face of the earth; no one knew him-no one cared for him. Mechanically he went in the direction of his home, and having reached it, he immediately retired to his room and cast himself upon his bed; his breath became fast and thick, a film seemed to cover his eyes, his temples throbbed as though the blood-vessels would burst, and his brain seemed oppressed, as if laden with a weight of lead. 
               Thus he lay throughout the long night, scarcely sensible, yet not sleeping, in a state of almost perfect lethargy; he cared not if he never again arose from that bed. 
               The night had passed, and the following day had well advanced, and still he lay in the same position. At length he was aroused by the voice of his landlady, who had become alarmed at his non-appearance. He had resided with her for years, and was a great favorite with her. She spoke to him in words of kindness, and the tone of human sympathy in some measure restored him to himself. 
               Unmanly as it may seem, he gave way to a flood of tears, and this, in all probability, saved his life. 
               He told the compassionate landlady all that happened. She spoke to him words of comfort, and persuaded him to rise, and then left him with a promise on his part that he would come down stairs to tea. 
                
               When she had left the room, he bathed his fevered skin copiously with cold water, and, feeling refreshed, set to work in his own mind to review his present position. 
               He had been for some years in the receipt of a good salary; but, like many young men, had saved but little. What little means he had, had been expended during his long sickness. He also owed two or three trifling bills to tailors and shoemakers, and the last month's board to his landlady. His whole worldly wealth consisted of $60. This would not cover his debts. 
               His mind again became confused, and he would probably have again fallen into a state of unconsciousness, for his sickness had rendered him weak, when, fortunately, the gentle voice of the landlady was heard summoning him to tea. He followed her into the dining-room, and in the evening talked with her over his future prospects. 
               The cheerful conversation of a few friends, who dropped in, helped to revive him, and his mind became more composed. 
               When the hour of rest arrived, his landlady, when wishing him good-night, put a note into his hand, desiring him to read it when he went to his room. He did so, and found it to be a note inclosing his board bill for the month, receipted, and a few kind lines saying, that he had so long lived with her that, under present circumstances, she could well afford the trifling gift, and bidding him be of good cheer and the future would provide for itself. 
               He found there was still kindness in the world, and he felt renewed hope within his breast. He knelt and prayed that the dark cloud might be removed, and lay down to sleep in a state of composure that offered a vivid contrast to the perturbation of the morning. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               The easterly gale which now raged in all its fury was one of the most violent that had visited our coast for many years. The coast for miles around was strewn with wrecks, and for weeks afterwards the sad spectacle of the dead bodies of drowned mariners was seen alongshore from time to time. 
               It was a strong proof of the strength and good sailing qualities of the Bonita that she, hugging the land so closely, and manned with a crew, but one of whom was at all (and he not thoroughly) acquainted with the coast, should have weathered a gale so rough and so disastrous, and that, too, when many gallant vessels were destroyed and sunk beneath the wave, as a hecatomb to the fierce spirit of the storm. She did so, however. For three days, with a dangerous line of coast under her lee, she struggled in gallant style with the mighty turmoil of the elements, and came forth triumphantly from the struggle; and it was no less a proof of the skill of her picked crew and her commander, and his youthful, effeminate looking, but daring lieutenant; all rovers as they were, they at least showed that they had the stamina that had better been employed in nobler work. 
               And where was Inez during this gale, so dreadful in its fury to hardy men, so fearful as it must have been to feeble woman? 
               Did her heart fail her? Did she succumb to the fearful influences which just now seemed bent on her destruction? 
               No; whether it was that a fiercer storm raged within her own bosom, calm and collected as she outwardly appeared; whether she was reckless of life, since life to her presented so little that was worth living for; whatever might have been the cause, there was not one heart that beat among the hardy men composing that crew who viewed the surrounding scene of dread desolation with more calmness and with greater heroism than did she. Nay, she even seemed to take a strange delight in watching the furious struggle of the conflicting elements. She could not be kept below, and for some strange reason-some influence fluence which is perhaps indefinable-Russell attempted no coercion. Day after day she stood for hours with a rope lashed around her, earnestly watching this, the grandest and most terrific sight in nature-a heavy storm at sea. She watched the long-rolling billows as they advanced, increasing in size as they neared the vessel, and sweeping along with a concentrated force that was irresistible, and smiled triumphantly as, just at the moment when, to an unpractised eye, they seemed on the point of en-gulphing the little cockleshell of a vessel, the gallant bark rose buoyantly and gracefully over their frothy summits, seeming to curtsy gracefully, as though in mockery of the fury of the elements; and only when a hapless seaman was flung, by a sudden jerk of the vessel, against an iron ring-bolt, and struck senseless, did she consent to retire into the cabin with the injured man, and there pay him every attention that she was enabled, with the scanty means the vessel afforded, to bestow. 
               The sailors, rude and reckless as they were, could not do other than admire this more than manly courage united with feminine softness and humanity. 
               Who that knew the graceful and imperious Emilie of Walker-street, could have thought her capable of such fortitude in the hour of trouble and of danger? The occasion had brought out the good points in her character, and they were many, and should have adorned a loftier, purer station in life. The most of those who knew her were not aware of the occasion of her fall from the paths of virtue: we have shown it, and let us beware how we scorn and condemn. There may be many like her-nay, there are many like her now in this city. Poor, frail creatures-they, only, bear the opprobrium of their fall. The really guilty sometimes may be found in the highest and most brilliant and admired circles; sometimes, too, in the abodes of hypocritical sanctity. And ye of the gentler sex who have not been tempted, take ye heed lest ye in your pride be not in the eye of Heaven greater sinners than they! 
               But the tempest, the howling winds, and the troubled ocean are stilled; a fair and gentle breeze and a clear sky now prevail where so lately were discord and dismay, and onward, across the bosom of the broad Atlantic, speeds the Bonita to her destined port. 
               Inez has free range of the deck. How is it that she so often keeps the midnight watch with the young Enrico? How is it that they linger so long in earnest conversation, as together they lean over the bulwarks, watching the phosphorescent light as the gallant vessel ploughs the water with her sharp keel? There is some strange mystery to be explained here, but it is not yet time to divulge it. 
               Some weeks have passed away, and the Bonita nears the African Coast, and it has become necessary to keep a sharp look-out for the British cruisers on the watch for slavers. Russell and Enrico are on deck. It is early evening, and the sun has just sunk to rest in a glow of glory, and his rays, which lately tinged the ocean with gold, still linger on the verge of the horizon. 
               "Sail, ho!" cries a voice from aloft. 
               "Where away?" is the response of Russell. 
               "On the weather-bow, Senor," replies the look-out man from his lofty post. 
               "What do you make her out to be?" 
               "I cannot say, Senor; I can but see her top-gallant sail, but she is rising rapidly; and the sun, which has sunk to us, still reflects his rays upon her canvas; it is white and square, like that of a man-of-war." 
               "Keep a good look-out, and let us know as she rises what she looks like." 
               "Senor Enrico, if she really appears to be a man-of-war, we will keep off a few points to the southward, although I do not like the idea, as we shall have to beat up again along the Coast. I should wish to pass to the northward of Fernando Po, although, to tell the truth, I do not fear anything overhauling the Bonita when once she fairly shows them her heels." 
               To those unacquainted with nautical affairs, it may be necessary to state that the brig was then sailing "close to the wind," as sailors term it; that is to say, that the wind was just sufficiently fair to enable her to hold her course with the yards closely braced; consequently, a vessel approaching on the weather-bow was bearing down right before the wind. Indeed, so rapidly did the strange sail approach the brig, that in an incalculably short space of time she was visible from the deck, and the practised eye of the rovers as quickly knew her to be one of the cruisers upon the station.-As yet, however, they were ignorant of her size and weight of metal. She might be a heavy brig; or, perhaps, but one of the schooners, armed only with four small guns and a "long tom" amidship. For these, the slaver was a match, and more than a match, provided she had had her whole crew on board; but it will be recollected that the greater portion of them had been left in the haunts of the vessel among the West India Islands. Not many minutes elapsed, however, before it was evident that the stranger was but one of these small schooners. 
               "If I only had my crew on board," said Russell, "I would teach yonder joker a lesson that would teach her not to make and meddle where she was not wanted. Keep her two points off, helmsman, and ease off the main sheet a little. No-stay; by Jove, I'll risk a broadside, any how. Keep all taught, and steer steady, my man." 
               In half an hour the little vessel was within speaking distance. An officer in undress uniform was standing on her fore castle, with a speaking trumpet in his hand. 
               "What ship is that?" he shouted, as, by a slight movement of the helm, the schooner sheered broadside towards the brig. 
               "The Spanish brig Bonita, from New-York to the coast of Bonny," said Russell. "What ship is that?" 
               "Her Britannic Majesty's schooner Alert. Send a boat on board." 
               "Come on board of us, if you want any nearer acquaintance," said Russell. 
               "Heave to, or we'll send a shot into you," was the response of the Queen's officer. 
               "Try it!" audaciously shouted Russell. 
               The words were scarcely out of his mouth before bang went the "long tom," just sufficiently elevated for the shot to clear the brig's prow. 
               "Now, give it to them! and stand by, quarter-master, to keep her right off before the wind, as soon as the guns are fired," said Russell to his scant crew who were all ready at their quarters. "Senor Enrico, see to the trimming of the sails." 
               This piece of audacity-the firing into a man-of-war-struck even the reckless crew of the slaver with surprise; but the word was given and bang went the four guns that composed the broadside of the brig. 
               The clear ring told the practised ear that the guns were well shotted, and that the shot had taken effect was evident from the wreck among the schooner's spars, seen through the smoke, as the Bonita, cleverly answering her helm, sheered off, and bowled away merrily before the breeze. 
               "That's a good dose," said Russell, laughing, "I only wish we had our 'long tom,' on board, and I'd give them a parting salute." 
               The schooner was in no condition to give chase, even had she been so inclined; and the last the Bonita's crew saw of her, her crew appeared to be still endeavoring to repair the damages among her spars and rigging. 
               The following day they passed the point which marks the entrance of Clarence Bay, in the Island of Fernando Po; and by sun-down on the same evening, the brig came to anchor off one of the mouths of the Quorra River. 
               In the morning, preparations were made to warp the vessel up the dull, sluggish, shallow stream-a work of no slight difficulty, although all its tortuous windings were well known to Russell and his crew, who had often made this their haunt in the prosecution of their nefarious trade; consequently, the brig was partially warped and partially sailed up the river, for the distance of some three miles, when she was made fast to the stump of a tree, and Russell landed and visited the chief of the district, to arrange for a cargo of slaves. 
               Here we leave the Bonita for a time, and introduce the reader on board H.M. brig Rapid, a fine brig, carrying ten guns, of much larger tonnage than the Bonita, and well known off the coast as a scourge to the slavers. 
               The Rapid was at anchor within Clarence Bay, which, our readers will recollect, we have before mentioned as being the scene of mysterious crime, known only to Inez and Russell, at least so far as the latter believed. Its nature will be divulged in due time; but, although of a prior date, it will have connection with an after period of our story. 
               The Rapid, we have observed, was at anchor in Clarence Bay-a deadly hole to Europeans and Americans, but, perhaps, one of the loveliest spots, so far as the beauties of natural scenery are concerned, that the bright sun of heaven ever shone upon. 
               Apparently locked in by land, for the narrow entrance was foreclosed from view in its deep recess, the waters of the bay were smooth and crystal-like as the surface of a mirror. Down even to the water's edge grew large forest trees, whose dark green, heavy foliage was agreeably relieved to the eye by the interlacing creeping parasites that clasped their hoary trunks, and formed a thicket of dense verdure, apparently impenetrable, save here and there a slight break appeared, formed by the trickling waters of some petty rivulets, which emptied their tiny tributes into the bay. These brooklets were overhung with the branches of forest trees which interlaced above and formed leafy alcoves, through which the cool water rippled with a pleasing murmur over the pebbles, appearing apt abodes for wood-nymphs or naiads of the stream, while around and above flew myriads of parrots, paroquets, and other gay-plumaged tropic birds. The landscape was one of living beauty-but it was the beauty of the painted sepulchre only. The very luxuriance of the foliage in its everlasting verdure, the full-blown leaves pushed off before decay had commenced, and rotting in heaps on the ground, beneath the intense heat of the sun, engendered and disseminated a miasma which was at certain seasons of so fatal a character as to give this beautiful island a fair title to its terrible name-"The White Man's Grave." 
               The crew of the Rapid were lounging lazily about her decks, beneath the awnings which covered her from stem to stern, when one of the watch reported a large, double-banked war canoe entering the bay. Instantly all hands were on the alert. The canoe, paddled by forty men, pulled rapidly up to the brig, and the chief ascended the gangway. His object was to report the arrival on the coast of a slaver, and thereby to obtain a reward of rum and leaf tobacco; for he was a friendly chief, as it is called-that is to say, he was at bitter fend with his brother ruler on the Quorra, and adopted a Christian horror of the trade in human flesh; in order to get the co-operation of the commanders of the English cruisers for the purpose of cutting his brother's throat. The brig he came to report was at anchor a mile or two up the Quorra, and he offered to act as pilot to convey the man-of-war to the spot. 
               In fact the brig was no other than the Bonita, which was well known by the captains of the African cruisers, whose description by the black chief was immediately recognized by the officer in command of the Rapid. 
               In a moment, where all had been listless idleness, all was hurry and bustle, and in an inconceivably short space of time, the Rapid was standing out of the bay and in a few hours was off the mouth of the narrow branch of the Quorra, up which the Bonita had been warped. 
               The Rapid was of too great a draught of water to attempt to penetrate up the narrow river. Accordingly, the boats were fully manned, and officers and men, all dressed in dark clothing, proceeded, as soon as darkness had fallen, to row up the river and seize the prize. The pilot alone was a conspicuous object on board the foremost cutter; for, with the vanity peculiar to his race, he persisted in wearing a white jacket, which had been presented to him by one of the officers. 
               Up the stream they pulled in silence and with muffled oars; not a voice beyond a whisper was heard, and that only as the officers issued the necessary orders to the crew. Sometimes the stream was so narrow and so hung with brushwood that there was not room for the oars, and the boats had to be shoved along. A dense rank fog obscured the vision, and after pulling a long time and discovering no vessel, the officer in command began to think the pilot was mistaken or the vessel had escaped. He, however, was confident, and, sure enough, in another minute the tapering spars of the brig were seen distinctly towering above the thick, damp, murky haze, which seemed so solid that it might have been almost out with a knife; a few more vigorous strokes and the black hull was visible through the mist. Not a sound was heard on board, not a sign of a living being was visible, and the crew began to anticipate an easy capture. 
               They were now within a few yards of the vessel, when the flash of two pistols was seen through the gloom, followed immediately by the sharp-cracking report of that weapon. 
               "We are discovered; men, pull hard for the brig and board her, further caution is useless," said the lieutenant, and with two vigorous strokes and a cheer, the three boats, each full of armed men, were alongside and on board. 
               Resistance to such numbers was out of the question, and the captain surrendered with as good a grace as possible, knowing that by so doing his chances of getting off easy were better; besides, he trusted to the good luck which had always befriended him. He pretended, therefore, that he had fired the pistols, believing that the boats were native canoes, from the crews of which he anticipated an attack. For the first time, the Bonita was captured and in the hands of an enemy. She had become the prize of H. M. S. Rapid. 
               "Hey, there! come up, pilot; come aboard, you black d--," sung out the lieutenant to the negro chief, who still sat in the stern of the cutter, though all the crew had gone on board the slaver. 
               There was no reply. 
               "Go down, and see if the fellow is sleeping," said the officer to one of the men. 
               The man went into the boat, and approaching the pilot, found that he was dead and stiff. His vanity had proved fatal to him; the white jacket had been a mark for the pistols of Russel, and the chief had been shot, the ball having cut asunder the wind-pipe, and passed out through the back of the neck. The blood had choked him, for no one had heard him cry out; the wound bled inwardly, and the probability is, that his death was instantaneous. 
               The boats returned on board the Rapid, with the crew, and, greatly to the surprise of the Englishmen, with a beautiful female, whom they had found on board, whom they believed to be the rover captain's wife. 
               A prize crew was put on board the Bonita, and she was sent to St. Helena for adjudicature. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               We left Frank Morton greatly cast down at the unpromising state of his affairs. 
               We have observed that he retired to bed after the brief conversation with his landlady, narrated in a former chapter, with his mind considerably set at rest by her kindly endeavors to encourage him; but, although he slept calmly and quietly that night, he awoke in the morning in almost as desponding a mood as ever. 
               It requires considerable natural stoicism of disposition to bear the first shock of ill-fortune that we meet with in life, whether it be in a matter regarding our worldly affairs alone, or any of a more delicate nature, touching rudely the finest chords of the heart. 
                
               This was, therefore, a severe blow to Frank, for he had to bear up under a double trial, with a knowledge, at the same time, that he was not to blame for the troubles which had fallen so suddenly and so unexpectedly upon him. This, many would say, would cause the blow to fall more lightly, and so perhaps it would in the future; but the unfortunate feel a double pang-a keener sense of hopelessness-when they first come to review the cause of their distress, and find that it has not been, in any degree, that they are aware of, owing to their own fault or folly. It seems to them as though they were alike forsaken by God and man. 
               Frank walked out after having taken his breakfast, and dropping into a hotel took up the morning papers, and glanced his eyes half hopefully, half despairingly, over the advertising columns. 
               Oh! those advertising columns of the daily press! How many anxious hearts and weary eyes glance over them, day after day, hopeless, yet still unwilling utterly to despair! 
               One thing alone is the daily cause of greater anxiety than the columns of which we speak, and that is the mail-bag, with its bulky contents, tossed to and fro so carelessly, and dealt out so methodically by those appointed to distribute them to the eager multitude who await the arrival of the harmless-looking paper missives, with mingled doubts and hopes and fears. 
               Frank looked over the advertising columns. He read column after column in which employment was sought of every description, while here and there was seen an isolated advertisement, reading perhaps pretty much as follows:- 
               "BOOK-KEEPER WANTED.-Wanted, a Book-keeper who thoroughly understands book-keeping by single and double entry, and is conversant with all the modern improvements. The whole time of the applicant will be required. None need apply without the best of city references. Salary 8400 a year. Direct, paid, box-, P.O., New-York." 
               Then he would find another where a young man was required as a salesman. The utmost attention to business required. Salary small for the first year. And so on through the weary, delusive batch. 
               "Four hundred a year! four hundred a year!" thought Frank, "and I for the past five years have been wasting twice that sum; and yet that seems the limit of liberality on the part of employers. Well, even $400 a year is better than nothing; better than starvation, which must come at last with idleness. Then there is another thing. I must have references, and I am confident that Mr. -- would not refuse to speak favorably of me; but would I ask him? No, not if I have to leave the city. I am now free, at all events, to fight my own way in the world; and I will do it, and I shall succeed." 
               Brave words these, master Frank! brave words, truly, and such as all feel in the first flush of hope and anticipation; but wait until the heart grows weary with repeated vain endeavors; wait until the feet grow sore, day after day, walking the hard, burning pavement, and the clothes grow shabby, while the purse forbids the hope of a speedy renewal; wait until the debt at the boarding-house accumulates, and the obsequiousness which greeted you in brighter days gone by has been changed to neglect and contumely; wait until you can perceive the coolness in the address, the surliness of the servants, the fancied taunts of the fellow-boarders; wait until the nerves become so irritable that you fancy insult in every unguarded word, and then see if that buoyant spirit still sustains you. If then you say, "I can and will," you will indeed. If not, you have already made the first step down hill, which, unless a helping hand be unexpectedly stretched forth to save, will have no stay until you arrive at the foot. 
               "You cannot dig, to beg you are ashamed." Take care then that you be not counted in the list of those who seek a rest in the clear waters of the Hudson; who so madly, as it is deemed, thus seek a lasting rest from the troubles of this world; for we believe one half of these at least are those of whom we speak; those who prefer a grave amid the limpid waters, uncared for and unknown though it be, to starvation and disease, and the alms-house coffin, and the rude grave in Potter's Field. Religion may condemn the suicide, but humanity can scarcely blame him. 
               Enough of this. 
               Frank sallied forth determined to retire to his room and make application by letter to X. Y. Z. box --, post-office, New-York, as said one of the advertisements he had read, and with a prayer for success, humble as was the place he sought, he retired to count the weary hours until the answer should arrive. 
               The hours passed away; days passed in like manner, and still no letter came. Many and many advertisements were answered in like manner, with the same hopeless result. At length, one morning the postman's quick step was heard, and there was a letter for Frank Morton. 
               Frank hastily broke the seal, and found that the letter contained a request that he would be in attendance at an importing house in Pearl-street, at 2 P. M. 
               It was then noon; and immediately after he had taken his dinner, he went to the store designated. 
               "You wrote that letter in reply to the advertisement in the morning papers, I presume?" said the gentleman of the firm to whom Frank was introduced. 
               "I did, sir," replied Frank. 
               "Well, the handwriting is pretty good; you of course are thoroughly acquainted with book-keeping?" 
               "I am, sir." 
               "Are you a native of New-York?" 
               "Yes, sir. I was born in the city, and have resided in it for the greater portion of my life." 
               "You have then been in business here?" 
               "I have, sir. I have been for several years a clerk in the house of -- & Co., Broad-street." 
               "Ah! a good house; of course you have references from them. What salary did you have there, and what do you expect?" 
               "I have had for the last five years $1,200 a year," said Frank. 
               "Whew-w-w! $1,200 a year! What in the name of goodness, sir, caused you to leave the firm; I thought it was for the purpose of gaining an increase of salary; but, let me tell you, you cannot hope to obtain such a salary as that here, or in few other houses that I am acquainted with. I could give no such salary; so I may as well tell you at once." 
               "I do not expect to obtain any such salary," said Frank; "it was not with such intentions I left the firm in whose employ I was brought up from childhood. Some domestic differences and sickness were the causes of my quitting Mr. -- but my character for integrity is, I believe, unquestioned." 
               "Well, well, I will of course see to that. I like your appearance, and should like to make an agreement with you. What salary would you expect?" 
               "I really should hardly like to make a demand, If you will tell me what you have been in the habit of giving, I will determine whether or not, you being also satisfied with my character and attainments, I can accept the situation." 
               "Well, sir, we have been in the habit of giving but $300 for the first year, with an advance of $50 at the end of that time, provided we were satisfied with the capabilities and attention of our employes, but I will say $350 to commence, and $400 at the end of the year, if we are mutually satisfied. Meanwhile, I will, if you agree to accept the situation, make such inquiries from your former employers as I may deem necessary." 
               "I fear, sir, much as I need a situation just now, that I could not accept a salary so low as that," said Frank. "If you would say $500, although not half what I have been used to receive, I would gladly accept the employment and do my best to render myself of service to you." 
               "I could not think of offering more, sir; I have stretched a point in offering $350, as I told you. I can get a hundred eligible young men for that salary. See here," he said, pointing to a heap of letters which filled a drawer by his side "here are some of the replies I received to the advertisement. Some of the applicants plicants offer their services at $5 a week, and profess to be well fitted for the situation; these, however, I take no heed of. I always have found it to my interest to be liberal, and I consider that, under the circumstances, I have made a most tempting offer. It is for you to decide whether or not you are satisfied." 
               "I really think, sir, I should be throwing myself away to accept such a sum," said Frank; "therefore, I thank you; but I must beg to decline your offer." 
               So saying, Frank walked loftily, and with an offended air, out of the office, with just fifty cents in his pocket, comprising all the wealth he possessed in the world. 
               It is needless to follow him in his subsequent endeavors, for many weeks, to obtain employment, or to say how gladly he would, at the expiration of that time, have taken the situation he had refused; how he thought of following the example of Russell in former days, and going to sea in a whaleship, or entering the navy; nor how he gazed wishfully at the flaming advertisements set forth at the corners of the streets leading to the East River, showing in large, many-colored letters, how profitable such an engagement would prove. 
               His clothing was beginning to grow shabby, especially his boots, the first outward symbol which shows that fortune is at a low ebb; and as his outward appearance got worse and worse, so much the more difficult did he find it to gain a hearing in the houses where he sought employment. As long as his hat and boots preserved their gloss, and his apparel was toute comme il faut, he was at least listened to with respect and attention; but when white seams began to appear, and his upper covering showed a decided necessity for renewal, and the cracks in his boots told of actual poverty, it was strange, call as soon as he might, after he had heard of a vacancy-in nine cases out of ten-he met with a reply, even before he had half expressed the nature of his errand, that they were already suited. 
               He could have found relief by applying to his friends, no doubt-at least, to some extent, but he scorned to let them know his poverty, and hid himself from them. Mr. --, his old employer, would, doubtless, had he known his deep distress, have done something to aid him, but he determined to starve rather than to ask him for assistance; and thus he waited, week after week, until, all hope fled, he was glad to accept employment as light-porter in a store, at a salary of $6 a week; and there, struggling with debt and poverty, and almost prostrated both in body and mind, and living in an obscure lodging-house in Washington-street, far, very far different from the snug room he had so long occupied in Murray-street, we for the present leave him. 
               During this period little of interest occurred, as regards Miss Emma --. She had, as was evident to all her friends, lost much of the sprightly manner which had formerly characterized her, and her cheeks were pale and her steps languid. 
               These symptoms of ill health only served to embitter Mr. -- still more against the young man, who, he believed, had been, although perhaps innocently, the cause of this change. 
               She was taken for change of air to Canada; but there was no disease of body, and the doctors could not minister to a mind diseased; and so, poor girl, the bracing air of the St. Lawrence's banks did not bring back the faded roses to her cheek, nor restore the wonted vigor to her limbs. She pined, and pined away, neither sick nor well, looking with listless gaze on the change of scene through which her friends hurried her. 
               The fascination of the rattlesnake is dreadful; but less dreadful than the evil power that some men-generally speaking, rous and debauchs of the vilest class-possess over the minds of those females who have been brought in contact with them, and upon whom they have practised their devilish wiles. 
               The affections of the beautiful Emma -- were fixed with an inexplicable concentration of soul on the handsome, fascinating, but villanous Russell. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               We left Don Felix and the bonny Bonita in rather a critical position. 
               The penalty was at least confiscation, for there was ample proof, although much of the slave gear had been left in the West Indies, together with the major portion of the crew, that the vessel was preparing to take on board a cargo of slaves, and a number of Kroomen had already been shipped to fill up the complement of the crew. 
               Sailing under Spanish colors, the crew were themselves not liable to individual punishment, provided slavery and not actual piracy was their profession, although the fact of their profession, although the fact of their commander having fired into the boats of a man-of-war, and killing a man while engaged in the Queen's service, however temporarily, told badly against them. 
               It was well for them that the incident of their firing into the schooner was not known, or could not be proved against them, or there would have been little hope of mercy. "A short shrift and a hempen cord" would have ended the brief, yet crime-laden career of the Pirate Doctor. 
               A few days' sail brought the Bonita, under the charge of a master's mate, as prize-master, and a crew of man-of-war's men, into Jamestown Bay, St. Helena, where the vessel lay at anchor until the arrival of the Rapid with the slaver's crew. 
               She came in a day or two afterwards, and the trial before the Marine Court at Jamestown commenced. 
               Emilie, or Donna Inez, as we should rightly call her, of course had full and perfect liberty on board the Rapid; but this singular woman would make no confession as to her own real position, or the character of the captain and officers of the vessel, and she was generally set down as the wife or mistress of the slaver captain. 
               Her beauty, lady-like manners, and evident education, enlisted the sympathy of the officers in her behalf, and it was the general impression that both she and her lover or husband had at one time moved in a higher circle of life; but this was all that could be gleaned, for Inez, Russell, Enrico, and the whole of the crew alike answered evasively, and in Spanish, all interrogatories that were put to them. 
               The trial had commenced before the Judge of the island, and the lieutenant commander of the brig of war. The prisoners were arraigned and charged with piracy in seeking to entrap slaves, on the first count, and with the murder of the negro chief, King David, commonly called "bottle-o'-beer," on the second count. 
               As is usual in such cases, for a trial of this nature was a great event in that dull, ocean-girt islet, the court-room was crowded with spectators, among whom the ladies were prominent; these were of all shades, from the pure white and red of the few English residents, to the tawny olive of the native creole, and the jetty-black polished visages of the negro merchants, many of whom had acquired considerable wealth as retail dealers on the island. In a chair by herself was seated Inez, who had expressed a strong desire to be present at the proceedings. 
               The evidence, so far as it went to prove that the vessel was captured in the act of preparing to take on board a cargo of slaves, was conclusive enough; but the jury were evidently divided as to the second count. 
               Russell, or as he there styled himself, Don Felix de Carvalhos, persisted, in Spanish, that he had no thought or intention of firing into a man-of-war's boat. He had for some days expected a hostile attack from the natives on the opposite side, nearer the mouth of the river, and in the belief that these were they, he had fired the pistols, aiming, he confessed, at the most prominent figure; but he denied that such an act could be construed into murder. He did not, he said, speak English, and lamented the difficulties he labored under in that respect, as he was thereby prevented from making such a defence as he otherwise might have done; but he hoped in this instance justice might be rendered to him. He confessed that he was about to take on board three hundred slaves at the time of his capture; but these he said were destined for the Brazils market, and at that period slaves were allowed to be landed and sold there; and although he knew he was amenable to the English law, he was not violating the laws of the country where he was bound with his cargo. 
               A smile of ineffable contempt curled the lip of Inez while he was thus speaking, and the stifled words, "double-dyed liar and coward" almost burst from her lips; but she controlled her emotion and remained silent. 
               When young Enrico was called up for examination, it was evident that her interest in the case was re-doubled. She listened earnestly to every word that fell from his lips, and seemed to feel a relief when she found that he had not criminated himself. 
               The delicate, almost effeminate appearance of this young man, created considerable emotion in court, especially among the female spectators. It seemed scarcely possible, to judge from his appearance and manners, that he could have been familiar with the deeds of blood and cruelty that necessarily occur in vessels employed as the Bonita had been, and a general buzz of surprise passed around. 
               The crew were then severally examined, and all adhered to the same story. 
               All persisted that they were unacquainted with the English language, though most of them spoke it partially, and many of them with fluency. 
               The judge summed up, and the jury were about retiring, when it was reported that H. B. M. schooner Alert was entering the bay, and the rumor soon spread abroad that she had been crippled at sea, some weeks before, by a brig bearing every resemblance to the slaver then at anchor in the harbor, with the exception that she had painted ports, while the Bonita's graceful mould was black, unrelieved by a single white streak. 
               Russell had had her ports altered the very day after the audacious act already narrated. 
               The commander of the schooner soon made his appearance in the court-house, and told the particulars of the attack made upon his vessel. He was confronted with the slaver captain. 
               "Can you identify the man who was in command of the brig you speak of?" said the judge. 
               "I cannot. I saw him but indistinctly, at the distance the vessels were apart, and but for a few moments." 
               "Did he reply to your hail in Spanish?" 
               "No, in English, and without the slightest foreign accent. I should say he was an Englishman or an American." 
               "Where did he say he came from, and whither was he bound?" again asked the judge. 
               "From New-York to the coast of Bonny." 
               "And you say that you could identify the vessel, were her paint the same?" 
               "I could, your honor, although these vessels are often so similar that a mistake might be possible." 
               "These men all speak Spanish, and profess, indeed appear not to understand English," continued the judge, "and the vessel is said to have sailed from the Brazils for the Quorra River. What was the name of the vessel of which you speak? The vessel now in port has the name 'San Jose' on the board over her stern." 
               Russell had taken the precaution of altering the name of the vessel, at the same time that he had changed her paint. 
               "I cannot say: I heard but indistinctly. Certainly it did not sound like the San Jose." 
               "Then you think this is not the vessel?" 
               "I do not say that; these fellows are up to every trick of their trade; but I could not positively identify her, and therefore, I suppose the prisoners must have the benefit of the doubt." 
               During this conversation, which had been carried on in English, the court had narrowly watched the countenances of the prisoners, in case they might have betrayed a knowledge of what was going on; but they sat passive and immovable gazing with a vacant stare at the judge and the officer. Even Inez appeared unconcerned. 
               The judge then directed the jury to return their verdict, and they retired, and in a few minutes brought in a verdict of "guilty of being engaged illegally in the capture of slaves," against the captain and crew of the San Jose, but acquitting them, on the score of ignorance, of the charge of murder. 
               The judge pronounced the vessel confiscated to the crown, and the prisoners were discharged-the charge of firing into the Alert of course not having been substantiated against them. 
               They were directed to be sent to Sierra Leone and there set at liberty. 
               Inez rose up, and in Spanish begged the attention of the court. The request was granted. 
               "May it please your worship," she said, "to allow me to remain in this island until I can obtain a passage to the West Indies or to the Brazils. I have money and jewels about me, sufficient to render me no charge to the island, and I do not wish again to be placed in the power of that man." 
               "This is a singular request," said the judge. "I had understood that you were the wife of the captain of the San Jose." 
               "Is a slaver any place for a woman?" said Inez. 
               "Call up Don Felix," said the judge. He was still in court. 
               Russell again appeared on the stand. 
               "Is this your wife?" he asked. Russell replied, on the question being interpreted to him, "She is"-but at that moment his eye met that of Inez fixed upon him with the expression that always cowed him. 
               It seemed as if she said, "Beware how you reply! You are now in my power. I have yet spared you, but look to yourself." 
               He turned from her gaze and replied, "She is not." 
               "Who then and what are you?" asked the judge of Inez. 
               "I cannot reply," she answered; "and your worship would not surely desire I should do so against my will. I am a creature of shame, but I have reasons for keeping my secret within my own breast. I only claim the protection of the court, that I be not again compelled to remain in the company of that man." 
               During this colloquy, the large liquid eyes of Enrico were fixed with an expression of deep sympathy on the earnest, pleading look of Inez; and it was with visible satisfaction that he heard the judge reply, through the interpreter, that the lady should have the protection she required. 
               Inez, in passing out of the court, whispered something inaudible in the ear of Enrico, and pressed his hand warmly. He was evidently waiting for her. He smiled, and with a nod of farewell, joined his shipmates. 
               The following morning the crew were put on board the Rapid, which sailed immediately for Sierra Leone, where the prisoners were landed, and set at liberty to find berths on board any of the vessels in the harbor which might stand in need of an addition to their crews; and there for the present we leave them. 
               Inez remained on the island for some few weeks, and then sailed for the Cape of Good Hope, there being there a greater probability of her finding a vessel in which she could reach the port she wished to go to. 
               At Table Bay, she went on board an American vessel bound to Havana. She landed there, and thence sailed in a few days for Bahia, a city not far distant from the spot in which she had been so cruelly deserted by Russell more than five years before. She had her motives for this, as will be seen in a future chapter of our narrative. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               There is no part of the world in which magnificent and domestic scenery is more happily blended than in the Brazils. 
                
               Nature displays a scale of grandeur which is divested of most of the rough and rugged features that usually accompany her more magnificent scenery. 
               Towering mountains are to be seen bounding the horizon, and stretching their lofty summits high up into the heavens till they seem to merge into the blue sky, their outline defined, it is true, but so faintly as to be barely perceptible; the forests are deep, but the bright green foliage divests them of the gloom that usually pervades these wooded solitudes, and the innumerable birds, of so many varieties, and of a gaudy brilliant plumage not elsewhere to be met with, serve still further to animate and enliven the scene. 
               The Bay of San Salvador or Bahia-the locality to which we now particularly refer-is of vast extent, capable of containing in its capacious bosom, in safe and commodious anchorage, all the navies of the world. 
               Snugly sheltered on all sides by the curve of the bay, indeed almost perfectly land-locked, fronting the eastern shores of the bay, and occupying a position between the Atlantic coast and the tranquil, almost inland waters of Bahia, lies the ancient city of San Salvador, containing some 130,000 inhabitants, consisting of the descendants of the original Portuguse settlers, of negroes, and a few European merchants of various nations. Its appearance from the bay is magnificent; but, on landing, the streets are found narrow and crooked, converging to the centre, where a filthy gutter conveys the drainage from the houses. The city being built upon an acclivity, pedestrian exercise is by no means pleasant, and equestrian or carriage conveyance almost impracticable. Sedan chairs, therefore, are in general use, and indeed are the substitute for the carriages that are found in the streets of most other cities. 
               The widely extended shores of the bay present a brilliant panorama of delightful champaign country. The acacia stretches its broad and singularly formed leaves across the country paths in every direction. Tall palms and cocoa-nut trees form cool groves wherein to rest and watch the waving fields of golden-headed maize, or the green broad leaves of the sugar-cane, gently bending to the breeze. Delicious fruits abound throughout the year, and nature appears to have used her utmost efforts to render the spot a perfect Acadia. Man has for centuries past done his best to render it an earthly pandemonium. 
               About eight or ten miles from the city, in a beautiful little village, the inhabitants of which are chiefly engaged in the cultivation of their own small farms, stands a sweet little cottage, at the door of which were seated two females, both of them beautiful, and both, in their dark complexions, brilliant eyes, graceful forms and Moorish cast of features, betraying their Andalusian descent. 
               It is about six months from the date of the events recorded in our last chapter, and the day is drawing to a close; the golden rays of the setting sun are reflected on the broad expanse of the bay, and the sky is gorgeous with fantastic cloudlets, of every color of the prism. The sultry heat of the day has abated, and a cool, refreshing breeze, laden with perfume, revivifies all who breathe its fragrance. The females are engaged in earnest conversation. One of them we discover, on a nearer approach, to be our old acquaintance, Inez; the other is a stranger to us. At a short distance from them a bright-eyed little boy, of some five or six years of age, is merrily playing with a group of creole children. Let us listen to the passing conversation: 
               "Strange, indeed, you may call it, dear Isabella," said Inez; "who shall account for the strange impulses that sometimes arise within us? It was in a trance that I saw my boy, as plainly as I see him now. It seems to me almost in this very spot, and a voice sounded in my ear, gently whispering-'Inez, your child did not die; you were deceived, you shall see him again,' A thrill ran through my veins; I awoke as from a fainting fit, and saw the hated form of Don Felix, standing over me, with every demon-like thought that raged in his bosom as strongly imprinted on his features as though he had spoken them aloud. It was on that fearful night, when I found myself again in his power; and for a moment I trembled with fear, but the vision I had seen, or fancied I had seen, the whisper of the gentle voice which still seemed to linger in my ears, gave me courage and self-control, even greater than I deemed it possible I could possess. 
               "I arose from my recumbent posture, and confronted the villain; all fear had fled. I met him with courage, and he quailed as the guilty ever will quail before united 'physical and moral courage. I knew my power from that moment, and I maintained it. 
               "You know the rest. I felt a certainty in my mind that my little Jose lived, and that I should see him again; and the storm and tempest, the ocean solitude, the burning coast of Africa, my unhappy position, all affected me not. I looked calmly on all-a new spirit seemed to have been awakened within me. I had something to live for, something to love. I felt it, although you used to ridicule my vagaries, as you called them, fearful no doubt, my dear Isabella, that I was forming delusive hopes which were the creation of a diseased brain. 
               "Well, it was kindness in you, for you had not a mother's instinct to buoy you up; but I felt, during that long and weary voyage, as certain that I should see my child again, as I am now that I see him sporting before me. 
               "When I left the island of St. Helena, I waited but a few days at Havana, until I could find some conveyance to this coast. A few weeks saw me here. I landed at Bahia; my little means, gained, I am sorry to acknowledge, in an unholy manner, were almost expended; but guided by the same mysterious impulse, I found my way on foot to this village, and met the negress who attended me in my sickness more than five years before, leading my little Jose by the hand. 
               "She recognized me, and I caught the boy in my arms, for I knew he was my child. For some moments I held him in close embrace; at length my feelings overcame me, and I fainted. 
               "I was borne into this cottage by the negro woman, who had brought up my child as her own. 
               "Poor thing! She did all she could to bring me to myself again; but my long pent up and smothered feelings at last overpowered me. For many days life hung in the balance, but I at length recovered. 
               "The negress told me all. She was commissioned by the wretched Felix to destroy me and the babe; but her heart did not allow her to commit the evil deed. She had deceived Felix and saved us both; but she was compelled to send the infant away; and I believed it dead. She did not undeceive me, for she herself knew not if it were dead or living. 
               "A twelvemonth after I had gone to New-York, she recovered the child, and had brought him up as her own. 
               "In a week or two I arose from my bed a much happier woman than ever I expected to be again. 
               "I felt hope-that only support of life-renewed within me, and I thought that I might even again be happy. 
               "My means were gone; but I turned my attention to the accomplishments I had learned in youth; and by making the pretty feather fans which sell so well among the sailors, I can earn a good living for myself and my boy, and our negro benefactress, too. 
               "Now, dear Isabella, I have for some weeks past had an earnest longing to find out if my father is still living, and to be reconciled to him. I think he would forgive me if he knew the story of my wrongs and saw my beautiful boy. Poor old man! he must be getting aged, now. I hope I shall see him once again before he dies, if only for a few minutes, to say, 'Forgive me, father!' And then I wish to send a letter to Miss Emma --, of New-York. I wish to expose to her the perfidy of Senor Felix, for I know he yet intends to revisit New-York-if he is not already there-and he has further designs upon her. 
               "Isabella, if it had not been that he was the father of my Jose, and I believed my boy alive, I would have denounced him at St. Helena, when he told the barefaced lies in court. No; there was yet another reason, and you know what that was. Well, let it pass. I could almost forgive him now, if he ever were to prove himself worthy of forgiveness. 
               "You sail for Martinique to-morrow, and I have heard, from the master of a ship in port, that my father is now there; will you, dear Isabella, take a letter from me to him? Make yourself known to him, if you please, or preserve your incognito, and then, if you proceed to New-York, as you intend, do see Miss --, and take her this manuscript I have prepared. Warn her of the evils which surround her, and save her if you can. Will you do all this, Isabella?" 
               "Everything I can I'll do, Inez. You know fear is unknown to me, and danger I have looked upon till it has become a familiar friend, I will see your father and my old benefactor, and I will save Emma, even if," she added laughingly, "I have to call Don Enrico to my aid for the purpose. But you need money, Inez. We rovers, you know, always have plenty, or none at all. Now I am in the former condition, and my purse is yours." 
               "Nay, Isabella, I have sufficient for my purposes, gained by honest toil. Do not be offended, poor girl; you could not help yourself, and your self-devotion merits all praise; but I could not now use the money obtained by such means as that you have in your possession, unless for such purposes as you are now about to employ it. Go, then, dear Isabella, and may heaven prosper your undertaking." 
               The two young women continued in conversation for an hour longer and then sought their pillows. 
               The next morning Isabella went to the city, and sailed the same day for the West Indies. 
               Our readers may, perhaps, have discovered that Don Enrico, the chief officer of the Bonita, was no other than Isabella in disguise. 
               Strange and improbable as it may seem, the character is drawn from life, and the strange events which led to this unfeminine career, and the object of Isabella in thus assuming and successfully supporting a male guise in a career which would, to most women, have been impossible to maintain for an hour-to enact the rover officer, and still be in reality the gentle, noble-hearted, though somewhat reckless woman, will be told in the succeeding chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               We introduced in our last chapter the rover lieutenant, Don Enrico, transformed into the beautiful and gentle, although somewhat pert, saucy girl, Isabella. The transformation was a singular one; but, as we have heretofore stated, our story is founded on facts which occurred in the recollection of many persons of adult age now residing in this city. Such transmogrifications are by no means rare, as very recent occurrences abundantly testify, and we will give the history of Isabella de Paula as it was told to ourselves. 
               Isabella was born at  in Spain, of Andalusian parents, which has been at one time large landed properties in that country. During the peninsular war, her father had taken the side of the French invader, he having in his youth served as an officer in the French army, and having, as all did who came in contact with Napoleon Bonaparte, conceived almost an idolatry for his person. Upon the invasion of Spain, therefore, by his old leader, he had, contrary to the views of his friends, and in defiance of the laws of his country, taken up arms and entered the ranks of the invaders as a private soldier. It was not long before his gallantry introduced him to the favorable notice of his former leader, in many a hard-fought battle-field, and he was quickly promoted from a sous-lieutenant to a captain, and from a captain to colonel, in the foreign army. In truth, although a Spaniard by birth, he was a Frenchman in all else. He had been taken to France when quite an infant, and there educated -his father having held an agency for a large mercantile house in Madrid, which did extensive business at Paris, Enrico de Paula was educated at the Polytechnic School at Paris, and there his young mind became deeply tinctured with the wild love of liberty for which the scholars of the Polytechnic have ever been distinguished. 
               Just as he was leaving school, the French Revolution had commenced its tide, and the young Enrico, rejecting the offers of his father to place him in a mercantile house of eminence, with a view to his future position as a Spanish merchant, had recklessly cast aside friends and home, and thrown himself into the ranks of the revolutionary army, commanded by the then youthful Napoleon Bonaparte. He, for many years, heard nothing of his parents-in fact, he became a renegade from his country-a Frenchman in all but birth. He rose to the grade of colonel under Bonaparte, and would in all probability have attained a still more elevated rank, had he not been temporarily incapacitated by a severe wound received at Austerlitz. He was left behind in the hospital, while his comrades marched to gain fresh laurels, or to meet the embrace of the grim King of Terrors on the battle-fields of Austria. After many weeks of sickness, during which his life was despaired of, he at length came out of the hospital, healed in body, but in a condition of extreme poverty. 
               Shortly after he left the hospital he received a letter from Cadiz, in the handwriting of his father, whom he had not seen or heard of for years. A Spanish soldier in the French service had been an inmate of the hospital with the wounded colonel, and his legs having been amputated, he was very naturally discharged as unfit for service, and in this lamentable condition he had begged his way home to Spain. His native town was Cadiz, and after his return he was engaged by a wealthy Spanish gentleman, who had taken pity on his lamentable condition, and installed by him as porter of the gates of his country residence, within a league of the town. The old gentleman entered into conversation with his new servant shortly after his engagement, and in the course of this conversation the name of the colonel was mentioned as being the same as that of his benefactor. The old man soon discovered that in the wounded colonel, spoken of by his servant, he had found his long-lost son, and he dispatched a letter to France immediately, beseeching him to return to his paternal residence, and assuring him of his forgiveness of all that had passed. A pang of remorse shot across the breast of young De Paula when he received the affectionate letter from his forsaken parent, and he hastened to obey the summons to the paternal mansion. He was the more easily induced to pursue this course, in consequence of his present extreme destitution. 
               The letter informed him that some years previous, his father had entered as a partner in the mercantile establishment in which he had been agent in Paris, and death having in the course of a year or two carried off the senior members of the firm, Don Enrico de Paula had become the owner of the entire establishment; business had prospered with him, and he had rapidly acquired a large fortune. He had then sold his business and purchased a large and valuable estate near Cadiz, to which he had retired, and he now besought his son, as he was growing aged and infirm, to return, obtain his father's forgiveness and-blessing, and become at his death the owner of the large property he was possessed of. 
               Enrico de Paula arrived home only in time to receive his father's forgiveness and blessing, and to close his eyes in death; his mother had died some years before, and he found himself the sole owner of a large estate and an almost princely fortune. 
               Shortly afterwards he married the daughter of a retired Spanish officer of the navy, poor as she well could be, but remarkable for her beauty and vivacity of disposition. 
               An only daughter, Isabella, already introduced to our readers, was the fruit of this union. 
               Previouly to the birth of his daughter ter, colonel de Paula had, as we have mentioned, joined the French invading army under his old master; and upon his reverses, after the defeat of Napoleon by the Duke of Wellington, he had been compelled to fly, his country, with difficulty saving his life; for, had he been caught, he would have suffered an ignominious death. He, however, escaped to the sea coast, and, in the guise of a common sailor, got a berth on board a merchant vessel bound to Cuba. 
               Arrived there, he left the vessel and obtained a scanty subsistence as a fisherman upon the coast. His education and natural abilities would have procured him more respectable employment; but he could not settle down to a city life, and the reckless career of the half wreckers, half fishermen of the island, suited his temper well. He forgot his birth; his breeding; the respectable position in society that he had held, and in a short time was as hardened, as recklessly daring, as happy in his arduous vocations, as were his semi brutalized companions. 
               His wife having given birth to a daughter in Spain, at length joined him in his exile, and his property having been confiscated to the crown, they came out as poor as he was, who should have been their protector. The mother of Isabella might have found a home with her parents, but she was feeble in health and unwilling to become a burden upon their slender resources; besides, she yearned to be with her husband, who, fallen as he was from his high estate, was still all in all to her, and with true woman's devotion she forsook all-country, friends and kindred, all earthly comforts, to join him who had been the idol of her young affections, and was still the being to whom she clung with all the ardent love of the daughters of the South. They reached Cuba, and for some years lived in a state of alternate poverty and comparative comfort, as the wild occupations of the reckless husband happened to prove fortunate or unfortunate. 
               The child Isabella was a great favorite of her father's; and, from her beauty and gentleness, was also a pet with his lawless companions. 
               Her father often took her to sea with him on his fishing or wrecking excursions, and the pretty black-eyed brunette became, under the rude, playful tuition of these rough men, as good a sailor, before she was ten years of age, as a boy of that age could have become. 
               Habit and education are often more powerful in forming character than even the instincts of sex, and the spirit of the young Isabella was of a masculine turn, although her appearance and her feelings still preserved all their feminine delicacy and tenderness. She possessed the daring, almost reckless spirit of her father, and probably, from education and habit, preferred to mingle in masculine pursuits rather than to follow those that would have been more congenial to her mother's wishes. Yet still she possessed all her mother's dark Moorish beauty and grace of figure, and, with all her hardihood, much of her mother's gentleness of disposition. She was quick to resent a wrong, and capable of resenting it in her own person, but ever an opponent of cruelty and oppression, and gentle, trusting, and confiding, towards those she loved. 
               When she was ten years of age, her father was killed in an affray with some of his comrades, respecting the division of some property they had stolen from a wreck, not without suspicion of having murdered the crew. 
               For some years afterwards, the daring girl actually supported her mother by occupying herself in the perilous duties of the fishermen; acting as cook and stewardess to the crews, and in fine weather steering the boat while the men were otherwise employed. 
               Reckless and daring as were these rude men, they respected the daughter of their deceased comrade, and were even careful in her presence and hearing to restrain their rough conduct and equivocal conversation, and thus she already obtained a sort of mastery over them, which she often used to a good purpose. 
               The father of Inez, returning from the United States to Cuba, was, when Isabella was about sixteen years of age, wrecked on the coast, and the vessel was boarded by these pirate fishermen and plundered. The old man was seen at once to be a person of substance, and the pirates proposed to subject him to torture for the purpose of obtaining a heavy ransom from his friends. 
               Isabella heard of this, and remonstrated with the men on their cruelty to those whom even the ocean, in its fury, had spared. For once they were deaf to her remonstrances: the bait was too tempting for them to throw it away at the request of a silly girl. 
               Isabella determined to save the old man; and while the crew were engaged in a drunken carouse, she cut the cords with which they had bound him, and set him free-herself paddling the boat to the shore. 
               She was afraid to return, and she fled with the old merchant to his home. Conscious that she had saved him from torture, if she had not even preserved his life, the planter determined to make the beautiful fishing-girl a companion for his daughter Inez; and his wife having died some years before, he conceived the idea of sending for the mother of Isabella to act as his housekeeper. This was effected, and the poor widow had once more a happy and comfortable home. 
               Isabella was educated, as far as was possible, by the grateful planter, and she became the bosom friend and confidant of his daughter. 
               Our readers are aware of the introduction of Russell to the family, which occurred a few years afterwards, and of the base part he pursued towards the daughter of his benefactor. 
               Isabella was the confidant of Inez in her love affairs, and knew of her attachment to the base villain; but, like her, was deceived in his character. 
               When Inez was abducted from her home, she divined, however, whither she had gone, and conceived the strange idea of rescuing her. She told her benefactor, and got his permission to go in search of her, and his blessing, on the success of her endeavors. Isabella disguised herself as a sailor lad; and having means provided her from the father of Inez, she sought for a length of time the vessel which, she imagined rightly, he had disappeared with. For nearly two years her search was fruitless. At length she heard of a vessel of that description, trading with negroes between the coast of Africa and the Brazils, and she hastened to the latter place, to discover if it were indeed the vessel, and if she could hear any tidings of Inez. 
               Russell at this time had lost his chief officer, and he fell in with the dashing young sailor, as he thought her, at a caf in Bahia, and there engaged her as his lieutenant, under the assumed name of Enrico de Palmos. She went on board in hopes to find Inez; but there she learned that she had that very voyage been left behind on the coast of Brazil. She did not know her fate; but she resolved to follow up her plan to go with the vessel to the coast-to do her duty in such a manner that she could not be recognized or suspected, and thus, on her return, as she hoped, to discover the object of her search. 
               The vessel did not, however, go back to the Brazils, and Isabella, by the strange force of circumstances, was compelled to maintain her part for years; and indeed, had it not been that she wished to find Inez, she would not have been unhappy in her strange occupation, for she liked the excitement, and sometimes took pleasure in doing deeds of reckless bravery, which neither in their nature nor their object were of a feminine character; but still she ever refrained from cruelty, and where she had it in her power she restrained others. Thus, while apparently one of the most daring of the crew, although so feminine in appearance, she might be called the guardian angel of the Bonita; for many a hapless wretch was saved from torture or death, at the solicitation of her handsome and gallant lieutenant. 
               After Inez had come to New-York, she learned, by means we shall not now explain, that Isabella was on board the Bonita, and she wrote to her. The two females had frequently corresponded together, at the date in which our story opens, and it was through Senor Enrico, and a party yet unmentioned by name, that Donna Inez became acquainted with the actions of Russell both in New-York and abroad. Isabella had been, as far as was consistent with her safety, a companion to Inez on her forced voyage; and, on the vessel having been seized, had followed her, after having been set free at Sierra Leone, to the Brazilian village, where the conversation took place narrated in our last chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               The crew of the captured slaver, set at liberty on their arrival at Sierra Leone, soon dispersed hither and thither, as they got opportunities to ship themselves off. True, a slaver's crew possess no especial recommendations to masters of vessels in need of fresh hands, but captains shipping seamen abroad are not very particular in inquiring into character, provided they are assured of capacity; and at a port like Sierra Leone, where disease and mortality oftentimes render seamen extremely scarce, they are often compelled to be satisfied with a very moderate amount even of the latter quality. 
               However, the crew of the Bonita at length got ships and left the port, to spread themselves abroad throughout the world-some, no doubt, with the intention of returning as soon as convenient, if possible, to their former illegal habits-others, perhaps, to become honest men. We, however, here dismiss them, as they have no further connection with our story. 
               About six months after the seizure of the Bonita, and about the same date that the heretofore narrated conversation was going on in the pretty Brazilian village, between Inez and Isabella, a conversation of a different tone was being carried on in a sailor's boarding-house, in West-street, New-York, between two men habited in sailor's garbs, who, rough, toil-worn, and unshaven, as they were, were still evidently of a better educated class of men than is usual to be found among seamen. We may as well state at once that one of these men was Russell-the other had been at one time a fellow-captain of a slaver, who had often met with Russell in the course of his nefarious pursuits, but whose vessel had been seized some time before, under much the same circumstances as had Russell's. 
               They had both come from the Cape of Good Hope, by the run, as second mates of the vessels they had arrived in, at Boston, where they had been discharged, and had thence traveled on to New-York. We shall term the stranger Tom. As to Russell, he was known by his baptismal diminutive of Jack to his messmates and to the seamen of both vessels which had sailed together from the Cape to Boston. Surnames sailors have no occasion for. Like a good many other shore fashions, they are dispensed with in six fathoms of blue water. 
               "Well, Jack," said Tom, "here we are in the city of New-York again. By G-! it's near twenty years since I was here before, and then I had to cut and run in quick time, and I have been shy of showing my phiz here since. However, I suppose I have changed since then as much as the city has changed, and that I never should have recognized." 
               "What was the cause of your exit?" said Russell. 
               "Oh! a rather awkward scrape. I fell in love with a Creole girl-a rather pretty little creature-and I told her, of course, I was going to marry her, and all that stuff, and she believed me. Things went on comfortably enough for some time, until the little d-I began to grow importunate and to insist upon marriage, or she threatened she would make an expos of my proceedings towards her. Now, that would have been rather awkward at that time, because it would have led to an expos of other matters; so I humored the girl, and one day we went out sailing in a boat together-by some accident the boat upset and the girl was drowned, while I got safe on shore. 
               "Some busy-bodies after a time raised a fuss about the matter, in consequence of some letters of the girl's being found, which they said seemed to throw suspicion cion on me; I so thought it best not to wait and learn the result. I persuaded a "nigger" who had a wagon of his own, and who had always had a partiality for me, to drive me, by short stages, from the place, till we reached Charleston, when my money running short, I took it into my head to raise some on the "nigger." He was a smart-looking fellow who did a good business as a barber and waiter in New-York for some years; indeed, I believe he was born here; so I swore both wagon, horse, and "nigger" belonged to me, and sold the whole lot to a trader going south, for $1,500, and then lived like a gentleman till the money was all gone, when I shipped on board a vessel in port and went to sea. You pretty well know the rest." 
               "Well, Tom, I am thought a pretty tough fellow in my line," said Russell, "but I don't think I could have upset a girl in that manner, bad as I am. If I had had the nerve to do that, I might have saved myself some trouble. As to the affair with the "nigger" and his wagon, that was truly a capital idea. I wish we could get just such a chance now, for although I am tolerably flush of cash, a little addition to it would be no harm." 
               "Well, what part am I to play in the game you are about to commence, and, indeed, what is the game? for curse me if I know." 
               "I hardly know myself," said Russell, "I knew you were pretty hard up, and knowing you to be a useful fellow when a hard job was wanted to be done, I brought you along to be at hand if needed. Meanwhile, I will pay your board and lodging; so make yourself easy on that score. For the present you remain where you are, and I must change my rig and my lodgings, too, for awhile; and unless I need you, you need know nothing about me." 
               "All right," exclaimed the fellow. "Now let's take a drink before we part, and mind, Jack, be sure to send me the 'picture papers' every week, even if you don't choose to recognize me yourself." 
               "Trust me for that, Tom. There is honor among thieves, you know; why should there not be honor among gentlemen of our free profession? If I find I have no need of you, I will ship you off with a good outfit, but as long as I keep you here I will keep the dimes in your pocket." 
               The two villains emptied their glasses and departed. 
               It would in reality be difficult to say what were the intentions of Russell in thus coming to New-York again. Perhaps he knew not himself, or at least had no definite aim. 
               He had been fascinated with the charms of Emma --, and probably one object was to carry out his previously conceived intentions of carrying her off; but if so, his present position was little favorable to his hopes in that respect. 
               His first care, after leaving his friend Tom, was to go to one of the ready-made clothing stores in Fulton-street, and provide himself with a thorough new fit-out from head to foot, and then to look out for new lodgings for himself. 
               He had brought on the man Tom, he said, from a feeling of wild generosity, often found amongst most degraded villains, because he knew him to be destitute, and had known him when fortune had looked favorably upon him, and they had been boon companions together in the carousals which from time to time gave zest to their unholy trade. It was true that he had no service for him to perform; but he knew he had a stout heart, and ready hand to strike, and a conscience so seared with crime, that it knew no compunction or remorse, and he thought occasion might be, when such a man might be of service. 
               For his own part, he procured plain private lodgings, in Franklin-street, and there took up his abode immediately. A week or two passed away, and he began to be weary of idleness; he had sought to find out Miss --, but she kept now pretty much within doors; her health was growing very feeble, and all the medical advice she could obtain seemed to be of little avail. Of course he dare not make any bold, open endeavors to attain the object of his wishes, and his time hung weary upon him. He had once or twice seen his old friend Frank, but he scarcely recognized, in his attenuate form and pinched features, the hearty young man, with whom, scarcely a twelve month before, he had sat in the parlor of Delmonico's hotel, and who had chatted to him as gayly as if there were no such thing as sorrow in the world, as if all before him was couleur de rose. Mental agony and poverty had set their mark upon poor Frank, and the thin hollow cheek, the sparkling eye, the pinched nostrils, the hectic flush, and the dry, hacking cough, already plainly told that he was not long for this world. 
               He, on his part, had not recognized Russell, although he had frequently passed the store in which he was engaged; and Russell was not particularly anxious that he should recognize him. 
               On looking over the papers one morning, the attention of Russell was attracted by an advertisement for a clerk, in a wholesale and retail drug-store, in which it was stated that the applicant must be an M. D. The idea struck him that he would apply for the situation. It would, he thought, give him many opportunities of making himself acquainted with different parties, a little knowledge of whose affairs might be of use to him in future, and, at all events, it would tend to relieve the ennui which was now beginning to tell severely upon him. He accordingly made application, and after showing his diploma, which he had still preserved, and some false but very plausible written testimonials of character and ability, he was engaged at a salary of $500 a year. In truth, the salary he cared little about; he was one of those men who never want for abundance of money, yet apparently have no means of gaining it; and of the money he had managed to secrete when the brig was seized, there yet remained to him some thousand dollars or more. 
               Tom, the sailor, however, was beginning to be a drain upon his purse, and he therefore procured him a berth on board of one of the coasting sloops on the river, of which, in a short time-for he was a good seaman, a man of some education, and good address-he shortly afterwards became master. 
               Russell himself set to work assiduously to satisfy his employer, and thereby to serve his own ends the quicker and the more surely. 
               Proteus-like, he could assume any form that suited his views for the time being, and no one would have thought, to have seen the staid apothecary's clerk, that that solemn, sober visage could assume, at will, a reckless jollity of expression so utterly a contrast to its present aspect, or that he who was now busied in compounding pills or handling the pestle and mortar, would be equally at home in the saloons of the wealthy, the bar-rooms frequented by the most brutalized and degraded, or on the deck of the gallant vessel as she skimmed over the billows, borne rapidly along under the influences of the fair and gentle breeze; or when, rising majestically on the summit of the angry seas, as they frothed and foamed amidst the fury and tempest, she seemed, like a sea goddess, to bid defiance to the spirit of the storm. 
               All this time, however, he was secretly at work. His assiduity soon gave him the confidence of his employer, who was a physician as well as a druggist, and Russell shortly was himself entrusted to visit the doctor's patients at times when he was overburdened with business, and this was often the case, for his practice was extensive and lucrative. 
               Thus we find that this accomplished villain had again put himself in the way of carrying out his schemes of infamy in the city; but notwithstanding that, by some strange fatuity, every thing appeared to favor his views, even to those matters respecting which there was apparently no intention that they should subserve his own ends, still there was one in the city whose eyes was upon his every action, and who dogged him as unwarily as he had been dogged from place to place on his visit to the city in the preceding year. 
               This is a character we have yet to introduce by name to our readers, although they have been personally introduced in former chapters. Meanwhile Isabella had performed her promise to Inez, and had not only seen Don --, but had also come on to New-York, for the purpose of delivering the letter with which she had been entrusted, to Miss Emma --. 
               The letter had been sent, but no interview had yet been obtained. 
               Isabella had, however, discovered that Russell or Don Felix, as she only knew him by that name, was in the city, and thus another spy was upon him, perhaps still more watchful, or at least more dangerous, than the one already alluded to. 
               Thus is the strange course of events in this great city. 
               It is an old and a trite saying, that "one half the world knows not how the other half lives," and it is a true one. 
               Little do the major portion of our quiet, easy citizens, who pass to and fro in their daily routine of duty or pleasure, know of the under-current of mystery which surrounds them; that there are plots and counter-plots constantly going on, where all seems most open and above board, in many of which some of their most intimate friends are concerned. 
               Well is it for them that they are ignorant; let them not seek, with merely curious eye, to withdraw the veil from the dark mysteries around them, or they may, heedlessly, themselves be drawn into the vortex of lawless pleasure, infamy and crime. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               Miss Emma -- had returned from Canada, but little improved in health from her various journeyings, either in that province or in the United States. She could scarcely be called unwell-for she had no bodily ailments; but a settled melancholy seemed to have seized upon her, and to have perfectly overshadowed all her former girlish light-heartedness. 
               Her parents were very uneasy respecting her; for if, upon rare occasions, she was aroused from her melancholy mood, the change was marked by an excess of high spirits that invariably left her in a more pensive, lethargic condition than be fore. Her physician had ordered country air, in a neighborhood from which an easy drive would carry her into the city, and as much pedestrian and carriage exercise as possible; and her father had hired a residence in Westchester county, and here the family had removed, the old gentleman going into town every day by the rail-road, and the young lady with her mother, or sometimes a female friend, generally driving into the city about five o'clock in the afternoon, to Broad-street, where Mr. -- joined them after the business of the day was over, and returned with them to Westchester. While Emma was driving abroad one day with a young lady of the neighborhood, they were met in a narrow part of the road by a single horse carriage, such as it is customary for physicians to rendor their visits to their patients in, when their practice is extensive. In consequence of the shying of one of the horses attached to the carriage in which the young ladies were seated, the negro driver got the pole of the vehicle entangled in the wheel of the gig, in which was seated a gentleman whom they might otherwise have passed unnoticed. The temporary accident, however, led the occupants of the respective carriages to observe each other; and the young lady who accompanied Emma returned the salutation of the gentleman. Emma, on observing him, suddenly started and turned pale. 
               Could it be possible, she thought, that the gentleman could be Russell, whose image was never absent from her mind, and who appeared actually to be seated in the carriage opposite. How like him! there was the expression of the features exactly. Yet, no. It could not be he; for he would have recognized her. Besides, the dark full whiskers and the neat jetty mustache were wanting, and the dress and appearance of the stranger were more sober, and the former more methodically arranged than that of Russell was wont to be. It could not be Russell. It was one of those singular resemblances we sometimes meet with in which, although upon a close scrutiny we find a great many points of difference, the tout ensemble vividly recalls to mind the image of an absent friend, and so the carriages passed on, each pursuing their different routes. 
               For some moments both ladies were silent; one carelessly enjoying the charming landscape as they drove along, the other absorbed in her own thoughts. 
               At length, Miss Jane D--, who was the companion of Emma, observing the deep reverie into which her friend was plunged, turned towards her, and playfully asked what it was that so deeply interested her. 
               "Oh, nothing," said Emma, whose blanched cheek still showed that she had not recovered from the sudden start she had experienced on seeing the stranger, "nothing, Jane; only that gentleman that we just passed, and to whom you bowed, reminded me so strongly of a friend-that is-a former acquaintance: the Mr. Russell that you recollect hearing me speak of, when he was on a visit here, some twelve months since. Still, it cannot be he; for Russell always wore a mustache and dark whiskers; besides, the air and manner, even the style of dress were different." 
               "Oh no, indeed," exclaimed the other young lady, laughing. "Do you know, Emma, I always fancied there was une petite affaire du cur between you and that Mr. Russell, although I never saw the gentleman. You kept your hero all to yourself, Emma. But make yourself easy, dear, this is not the false knight-errant, returned to reclaim his lady-love. The young gentleman is an assistant to Dr. --, and, as I am informed, is very clever in his profession, too. I have met him once or twice at my sister's, and one day last week he was at an evening party at Mrs. --, Union Square. I assure you that he is a great favorite with the ladies, although he is but in an humble position. He danced with me two or three times on the night in question, and hence my acknowledgment of his bow just now. His name, I think, is Peters-yes, Dr. Peters. I recollect that was the name by which he was introduced. He is said by my aunt to have been of great service to her, by relieving her of her low spirits, and I hear so many praises of him, that old Dr. -- will need to look to his laurels; and now, my dear Jane, you know as much as I do of Dr. Peters." 
               "Well," said Emma, "there certainly is a strong resemblance between the gentleman and Mr. Russell; but, as to any affaire du cur between myself and Russell, you are ingeniously exercising your fancy. There was nothing of the kind." 
               "Oh, of course not. Well, Emma, I am not your father-confessor, but I think, if I am not mistaken, you rejected the address of another young gentleman, Mr. Frank Morton, on account of this new cavalier; and the poor fellow flew off to some desert solitude, and has never since been heard of. Is it not so, Emma?" 
               "Don't speak of Morton to me, Jane," replied Emma. "I-my father-all of us were mistaken in his character. My father was compelled to dismiss him from his service, and we never mention him. Ingratitude is a vice no one can endure." 
               "Well, well, be it so," replied Jane; and while thus speaking, the carriage stopped at the residence of Mr. --, and the two ladies descended from the carriage and entered the mansion. 
               Russell, for our readers will be aware that it was indeed he that was in the carriage, and to whom the young lady had bowed, was not the less delighted to see Miss -- thus, than she was astonished at what appeared to her as his apparition; but the motive was different. He knew her immediately; and it is not saying too much to add, that he was glad to see her on account of the affection he bore towards her; for he has since told the writer that so far as his heart was capable of the true feelings of love, he loved the fair Emma --, but it was not love alone which fired his breast; but a strange admixture of feelings which neither he nor any one else could probably unravel. 
                
               We have said before that he was anxious to meet her, yet dared not present himself at her father's house; and this country mansion offered a facility of gaining his ends such as he had scarcely hoped for. 
               With the marvelous facility of retaining his self-possession, which we have remarked heretofore was habitual to him, he had not given a sign that he was acquainted with the lady, and when he had politely bowed to Miss --, he inclined his head to Emma as though he had casually met a total stranger in the company of an acquaintance, and drove on. He was then on his way to visit professionally a child who was in a dying condition; for, as we have said, he was entrusted with a great deal of the business of his employer; but no sooner had the carriage containing the ladies drove on sufficiently distant to prevent the sound of his own horse's hoofs from being heard, than he turned the gig round and followed the party at a distance, until he saw them enter the mansion above alluded to. He marked the house, and then drove back to the cross-road which led to his professional destination. He arrived at the house of the farmer whose infant was sick, and found the child dead. He consoled himself with the belief that such would have been the case, had he been sooner or later; besides, he had done a good day's work for himself, and what was the death of a child or of fifty children to the gratification of one desire of his own? Leaving the sorrowing family, therefore, to weep, over their bereavement, he returned to the city, chuckling over his good fortune, and determined in his own mind to visit Emma on the first favorable occasion. 
               That soon occurred. He easily ascertained that Mr. -- was in town during the greater portion of every day, and he addressed a brief note to Miss --, requesting her to meet him in the neighborhood of the cottage mansion, for a few moments, as he had tidings to give her of Russell. 
               A day or two before, Emma had received a note from another person, requesting an interview with her to give similar information, which note she was at that moment replying to. 
               The handwriting of the two notes was different; but still it struck the unsuspecting girl, only too anxious to gain any information of her recreant lover that she was by any means able to do, that they were in some way connected, and she sent back a message by the bearer of the epistle that she would be at the garden gate in half an hour. 
               With a fluttering heart, at the appointed time, she bent her steps thither, and had not passed many feet beyond it, before she saw approaching her the gentleman whose singular resemblance to Russell had so strangely affected her a day or two before. 
               She had no idea of deceit poor girl! and on seeing the stranger, the idea flashed upon her mind that he was a near relative, perhaps a cousin, of Russell; and then he was attired in black-perhaps it was for him he was in mourning. Unable to proceed, she staggered back and clung convulsively to the gate, scarcely able to control her feelings. 
               Russell approached the spot where she stood, and addressed her: 
               "Dear Emma, I have found you at last," he said. "You cannot have an idea of the difficulties I have met with in endeavoring to overcome the obstacles which kept me so long and so unwillingly, yet unavoidably absent." 
               For the moment, upon hearing the voice of Russell, Emma gave way to her feelings. Reserve was for the moment banished, and she, uttering a suppressed shriek of mingled surprise and delight, threw herself into his arms, and permited him, unchecked, to kiss her cheek. Then drawing back and blushing deeply, as she disengaged herself, she said: 
               "Oh, Mr. Russell, why did you not write one letter, one word, to tell me where you were, and where they had taken you in that horrid ship? and then, how can you have been so long in the city without having seen me? for I saw you a day or two ago, and was told you were practising here as a physician under the name of Peters. Oh, Mr. Russell, why is this?" and the poor girl burst into a passion of tears. 
               Russell, thus suddenly taken aback, scarcely knew how to exculpate himself; but seeing that some explanation was necessary, he called the d-l to his aid, and thus explained, in language furnished ready to his lips by that respectable old gentleman: 
               "Dearest Emma, I have been here but a few weeks," (this was true,) "and during that period I have used every means that lay in my power to procure an interview with you, who are the only being who could have called me back to New-York, after having been seized by the crew of the vessel you spoke of. 
               "The facts are, that the captain of that vessel, whom I told you I was acquainted with, believed that I had a large sum of money in my possession, and for the purpose of robbing me, determined to get me on board. I would have entrusted him with anything until that hour, for I thought I knew him well; but you see how we are liable to be deceived, even in those whom we think we know best. 
               "I was carried off and robbed of what little I did possess, and subsequently landed in Africa, where, without money or friends, I nearly perished; but at length got away on board a vessel bound to New-Orleans, whence I traveled to New-York, and shortly afterwards obtained my engagement with Dr. --. 
               "I would not call on your father, for I was fearful that he might be suspicious of me under the certainly suspicious circumstances under which, against my own will, I left New-York. That I might not be recognized until fully able to clear myself from all imputations, I took the nom de guerre of Peters; I recognized you on the day I met you in the lane, and then, pardon me!-for love is the cause of the daring intrusion-I discovered where you, lived; and have taken the very earliest opportunity of calling to see you and to assure you that absence has made me love you more dearly than ever. Now, love, you are satisfied with my explanation?" 
               "Quite so, Russell, and now you will walk in and see mamma, and wait until my father returns from town-oh, he will be so glad to see you and to know that you were blameless; for I know my father had some unfounded suspicions that there was something amiss, in which, I assure you, I did not for one moment participate; but now you will let him know all that you have told me, and will call and see us as you did before. Will you not, Russell?" 
               "Dear Emma," replied the wily scoundrel, "at present I do not think such a course would be advisable, and I must beg of you to keep even your knowledge of my being here a secret, both from your father and mother. You see I am advancing in my profession, and I would like to secure a good practice in my own right, which I shall shortly do, before I make myself known to your parents. You, dear Emma, know that I am incapable of deceit, and that I love you too dearly to resort to falsehood, and thus render myself unworthy of your affection; but old people-people who have lived much in the world, and mingled in its strife and struggles-get over cautious; they allow the finer feelings of their hearts to become deadened, and learn to look with suspicion upon anyone, no matter how deserving he may be, who is not wealthy, or in a fair way of becoming so. Thus, dear Emma, I give you my reasons for imposing secrecy upon you, believing that you will see matters in the same light that I do. Meanwhile, we will not be debarred from each other's society. There can be nothing to prevent us spending an hour together, daily; we will walk out together. I will meet you here or at any rendezvous you may appoint, and we will relate our little joys and sorrows. You shall, according to my directions, pave the way for a friendly and permanent reunion between your parents and myself, and I will tell you daily how much nearer I approximate to the aims I have in view, which will render me, in the eyes of those who are governed, even in the dearest affections of the heart, by a devotion votion to mammon, a worthy suitor for this fair hand;" and he stooped and gallantly raised the little palm to his lips. 
               "Perhaps, dear Mr. Russell, you are right; you should know best;" returned Emma: "and yet I fear I am about to do wrong. You wrong my father and mother; indeed you do, Mr. Russell. Only satisfy them, as I know you can, of your honesty and honor, and I am sure you would not find them turn from you because you are poor. I have heard my father himself boast that he was once poor, and that he raised himself to his present position by honest industry and integrity; and many struggling persons have I seen him take by the hand and fairly start them in life. Besides, you have a good and lucrative profession; he cannot, therefore, if he would, charge you with disreputability or with idleness. I cannot, dear Mr. Russell, think it would be right in me to meet you daily, unknown to my parents; even if I could conceal it from them, I could not hide it from all-and the world is censorious; do, then, let me tell all to my parents; and believe me all will be right." 
               "I see," replied Russell, affecting a mournful tone, "I see it all. I have endured all in vain. You desire to get quit of me, and thus would have me act in a way that would at once blast my rising hopes, and ruin my prospects forever. You love another-you love that silly booby, Frank Morton. Well, well; if fate will have it so, marry him, and may you both be happy. Farewell! dearest Emma. I shall quit New-York to-morrow morning, forever." 
               "No, no, Russell; have me act as you will," cried Emma, "I will preserve your secret, for you know the world better than I. I will meet you occasionally, and I will pray God that your prospects may so rapidly brighten that there shall shortly be no need of secrecy. Are you contented now, Mr. Russell?" 
               "Forgive me, dear Emma, for once doubting you; but you little know-may you never know-the duplicity and hollow-heartedness that I have seen and known, and which, until I met with you, had almost seared my heart and rendered it impenetrable to human sympathy. Yes, dear Emma, I am content, and place implicit faith in your words; and believe me when I say it will not long be necessary for you or me thus to deal in this semblance of hypocrisy, for hypocrisy in truth it is not. A few months, and the cloud that has gathered above me, that has so long hung over me and depressed and stagnated the current of my existence, will disperse and be succeeded by a glorious sunshine. It is now breaking; already its edges are tinged with the light of the sun penetrating through its obscurity. It will soon sink beneath the horizon, while my star will be in the ascendant and tell a tale of future happiness and love. Then, Emma, this interview and all our past troubles will only add zest to our happy love, and then we will laugh and joke over what now appears a serious matter. But it approaches the hour of your father's return, and I would not be met by him on my way home-so, farewell! love; one kiss to seal our compact, and then, till our next meeting, farewell!" 
               So saying, he took the blushing girl in his arms and imprinted more than one kiss upon her lips; then gaily bidding her again farewell, hastily stepped away. 
               Emma was not satisfied that she had not acted wrong; but she trusted implicitly in her lover's words, and believed all he had told her. 
               As to his story about being carried away against his will, it must be recollected that the young lady was, at the time of the affray, so terrified, that she knew not what had occurred, and entertained but a dim recollection-like that left of a painful dream-of the whole affair. 
               Mr. C-- returned at night, and though he found his daughter unusually thoughtful, there was at times a pleasant smile on her lips-a smile such as was wont to be there in other days, but which had long been wanting-a liveliness in the tone of voice, and a merry sparkle of the eye, which told of returning health and happiness. He said nothing, but remarked the change to his wife on retiring for the night, and attributed it to the country air and the present habits of his daughter's life. 
               He little dreamed that the tempter had been in the field, and that she, the light of his life and joy of his heart, had listened to the voice of the charmer, and was now enjoying the anticipatory pleasures he always bestows before he steeps his victims in the gulf of gall and bitterness he has prepared for those that fall into his snares. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               The readers of this narrative will recollect that, in one of the early chapters, we copied some letters in which the writers signed their names as bound by the Order of the Secret Compact. It will be necessary, for the further development of our story, and for the introduction of other characters who will figure at a later period, that we endeavor to explain what was meant by this strange and startling signature. 
               Piracy, and slave-stealing from the coast of Africa, are generally considered by the uninitiated to be conducted entirely by a class of men who are in the lowest grade of the social scale; but this is a great mistake. There are to be found still, and there were, a few years ago, to be found in still greater numbers, a class of shipmasters in the various ports of the West India Islands, who, having neat and well-appointed craft, under their command, and being themselves social, well educated, gentlemanly men, were net a little esteemed among their fellow sea captains, and who exercised considerable influence over the ruder and less gifted of their companions. No party held on ship-board was considered perfect, without these men adding their fund of wit, sociability and sparkling accomplishments to the festive meeting. They were special favorites, and though their vessels were not calculated to carry a great abundance of merchandise, and though they appeared so tant and trim, from keel to kelson, that no one could imagine their owners or masters had any intention of taking on board any cargo at all, beyond the ladies, whom they, in their turn, received with such an air of gallantry, and treated with so much attention and gentlemanly politeness, nobody ever gave more than a passing thought for what purpose they were lying in port, or what freight they intended to take on board. They laid in port for weeks, perhaps for months, and then some morning were found missing from their accustomed moorings, and whispers perhaps were heard that they were suspected slavers, and these whispers were in a day or two forgotten, and so they passed away from remembrance, and their places were filled by others who enacted the same hospitable part, and who disappeared in a like mysterious manner. 
               That these vessels were engaged in the nefarious trade of African slave-dealing, as we have said, most persons believed, but few had an idea, that to this they joined another and still more criminal calling-that in fact they were pirates; skimmers of the seas; sea-rovers of the blackest dye; hoisting the red and black flag, with its grizzly emblems, as soon as they found themselves in blue water; and as ready to despoil, outrage and murder their late friends, as they were before ready to entertain them after the fashion and with the gracious air of princes. In fact, as Byron says of one of his piratical heroes- 
                      
                        "They were the gentlest mannered men, 
                        That ever scuttled ships or cut a throat." 
                     
                  
                
               Many circumstances have of late years conspired to render these sea-robbers more cautious; the sharper look out after them by vessels of war, the greater vigilance of custom-house officers and port authorities, and the facilities of capture afforded by steam, have considerably reduced the numbers of these gentlemanly maurauders, but still they are to be found, although perhaps under a guise of honesty, which at one time they disdained to resort to. 
               Nor must it be supposed that these-men were without accomplices, to provide vide capital for the carrying out of the trade, and security in the case of the capture of the vessels. And who were these accomplices? Men of mark and credit in the community; men who held a high position in the esteem of their fellow citizens; merchants to whom cargoes were consigned, and who freighted ships with rich produce to distant lands. It is in the knowledge of the writer that such was the case, both in the islands of the East and West Indies; and many a stately ship left her port, laden with merchandise, in the early morning, which was predestined ere night to fall into the hands of the despoiler, the pirate craft being owned by the very firm that furnished the lading for the victimized vessel. The plan pursued was to get the cargo and vessel insured, and then, on the day prior to her sailing, to dispatch one of these beautiful clipper vessels to sea, where spider-like she laid wait for the heavy-laden drone which was to leave the port the following day. 
               As soon as she had arrived at a proper spot, where the bosom of the ocean was clear for miles around, even as far as the eye could reach, and the canopy of heaven seemed to rest upon the waters of the earth, the vigilant and fleet pirate bore down upon his unsuspecting victim, who became an easy prey. The crew were murdered or made to walk the plank by their gentle-mannered friends, with whom they had so often exchanged hospitalities, and all the more valuable portion of the cargo was taken on board the pirate craft; the dull, heavy-sailing merchantman was then scuttled and sunk; dead men and sunken ships tell no tales, and the coalesced parties received the insurance money, besides retaining the cargo for future operations. It is but justice to say that these merchants to whom we allude were seldom or never Europeans or Americans. They were generally half-breed Spaniards in the West Indies, and of the mixed breed of Portuguese and Malays in the East. 
               With several of these wretches was Don Felix de Carvarhal allied, and to these allies he addressed the letters we have alluded to on the occasion of his sending orders to the Bonita to come round to the bay of New-York. 
               All connected with these bloody, nefarious transactions were compelled to take an unholy oath, at the same time joining their hands, which had been already pricked in a vein, that the blood might flow and mingle, and thus to swear eternal secrecy and unswerving faith to the secret brotherhood, on pain of the most horrible tortures and a lingering death; and so deadly and fearful was the oath, that it was never, that we have heard of, wilfully broken. 
               This binding oath had been taken by Russell, and all the persons mentioned in the former chapter. Even Isabella, under the nom de guerre of Enrico, had taken this fearful oath, influenced partly by her natural recklessness of character, but still more by her determination to falter at nothing which could aid her in her endeavor to discover and render service to Donna Inez; but this oath once taken, she found that she dared not break it, and thus it was that she was considerably hampered by it in her subsequent relations with Russell; and prevented from doing anything in the way of delivering him up to justice, even to save her friend. 
               Russell, on his delivery from confinement at Sierra Leone, had written immediately to the Spanish merchant, giving him the particulars of his capture and release, and of the confiscation of the Bonita, and demanding a sufficiency of money and letters of credit to enable him to carry out his unmatured plans; and according to the compact, this assistance to any amount, in case of misfortune, could not be refused. The necessary remittance was sent to the Cape of Good Hope, immediately, according to Russell's order, and thither he proceeded and drew the money. Thus it was that he was so flush of cash in New-York, after having been but recently a prisoner, and having since only made the run from the Cape of Good Hope to this port. 
               The day following the interview between Russell and Emma --, described scribed in the last chapter, the old merchant, on his return from the city, placed a package in the hands of his daughter. Emma opened it in her father's presence and found it to consist of several pages of closely written French manuscript. Her eye immediately caught the name of Russell mixed up with that of Don Felix, and other names which were strange to her. She blushed slightly, and turning to her father, asked who had sent the package. 
               "It was delivered by a neat, good-looking young woman, who spoke with a foreign accent, he replied. "What is it about, Emma?" 
               It was fortunate the manuscript was in French; for the old merchant was entirely ignorant of that language, and therefore Emma's reply that it was merely a request to patronize a French work of which this manuscript was the first part, was received by her father without suspicion. 
               Fortunate! we say. No, it was most unfortunate, for much mischief might have been spared had Emma made even then her father and mother her confidants in this untoward attachment. 
               She took the manuscript to her own room and perused it carefully that evening before retiring to rest. But with what feelings did she peruse it? Our readers may perhaps imagine them, but they are indescribable. 
               It was, as will be surmised, the manuscript that had been written by Inez in the little cottage in the Brazilian village, and it told, in glowing colors, the whole career of Russell, as Don Felix, from the earliest period of her acquaintance with him until the condemnation of his vessel by the British Admiralty court, at St. Helena. It cleared up the mystery of the attempted abduction at Hoboken, and was written with so much apparent truthful sincerity that its veracity could scarcely be doubted, especially as the writer was evidently thoroughly acquainted with many of the proceedings of Russell which Emma had thought were confined to her knowledge alone. 
               The shock experienced on thus finding her idol shivered to the ground at one blow, and all her brilliant fancies dissipated, was too great for the nerves of the poor girl to bear. She felt a cold shuddering at the heart and the blood seemed to freeze in her veins, while her brow burned and her brain felt as though it were crushing beneath a heavy weight. She became insensible, and thus remained she knew not how long; when she awoke to consciousness she found that her lamp had burned out and the daylight was dimly struggling through the blinds of her window. She was not undressed and was still sitting in the armchair by the side of her dressing-table. She looked wildly around as though she had just awakened from a frightful dream; at length she recollected herself and recalled to mind the events of the previous evening, and a flood of tears came to her relief. For the space of an hour she remained, her face covered by her hands, and her head bowed on the table, plunged into the very bitterness of grief. 
               She thought how she had deceived her parents; how the first step in deceit had led involuntarily to others, and then she thought of the cruelty of him she had idolized and made a hero of in her own imagination. 
               Poor girl! she suffered much, but this was retribution; for she had entailed the same suffering upon another, who had loved her with a love as perfect-a devotion as true as was hers to the false Russell. 
               Then came the re-action; "was all this true, or was it a base fabrication? was it an attempt to injure her lover? to ruin him in her estimation?"-and the more she hoped, the more she believed that it was so. At all events, she determined she would not condomn him unheard; but would meet him and place the manuscript in his hands; would watch his countenance as he received it; would judge him thus; and if he really were false she would cast him off forever. 
               So she bravely reasoned, little doubting, like all others, she had strength of mind to carry out the intentions framed in a moment of irritation and under feelings of wounded pride. 
               By the time she had arrived at this heroic determination, the day had fully dawned, and as she glanced in the mirror, she was struck with the pallor of her features and the disorder of her attire. She then recollected that her bed had not been disturbed, and at once conceived the necessity, if she would avoid unpleasant remarks and suspicions, of putting her bed-room in the state it would have appeared in if she had taken an ordinary night's rest. She therefore tumbled the bed-clothes as though the bed had been lain in, and then bathed her brow and face copiously with cold water, after which she changed her dress and descended to the parlor, at breakfast time, as composedly as usual. Nor was there any difference from her usual appearance, beyond a certain languor of demeanor, which her parents attributed to her excess of spirits on the previous evening. 
               She had, with a woman's quick, impulsive disposition, fully made up her mind that the alarming manuscript was a fabrication, made up, she suspected, by the female who figured in the story, and whom she had a dim recollection of having seen at Hoboken on the evening that Russell had so mysteriously disappeared; and she actually awaited with impatience the hour of her father's departure in order that she might meet her lover, who had appointed this day for a second interview. 
               "Emma, dear, you look pale this morning," was her father's salutation as his daughter entered the breakfast parlor; "I fear, love, you exerted yourself too much yesterday. I am glad to see that your health is improving, but you must take care and not luxuriate too freely in the possession of your restored vigor; and now, dear, what am I to say to the young lady who brought that manuscript yesterday for your perusal, and who said she would call to-day for an answer? I forgot to tell you last night; but I have no doubt your woman's curiosity prompted you to read it through, and, by-the-by, that accounts for the absence of the roses in your cheeks this morning. What is it, dear? A tale of true love, I suppose; blighted hopes, false hearts, and masculine villany, and all that-but what is the matter with the girl?" he said hurriedly, as Emma trembled and seemed as though she would sink upon the floor; "I see; it is one of those exciting French romances, which are not fit for the perusal of any reasonable, sober-minded person. I was foolish, in your feeble state of health, to give it to you. Return it to me, and I will take it back and give it to the girl when she calls." 
               "No, papa, the story interests me, and is not of the description of which you speak," replied Emma, "although, I fear it is an every-day occurrence; but I have not yet completed its perusal, and therefore I cannot return the manuscript to-day. If the woman should call, papa, will you ask her when she can make it convenient to call upon me? I am anxious to see her, and if I find her what she professes to be, to be of service to her." 
               "Just as you please, love; only take care of yourself for your old father's sake." And so saying, the old gentleman seized his hat and cane, and after kissing his daughter, left the house and took the path which led to the rail-road station. 
               At noon, according to promise, Emma took her bonnet, and strolled leisurely across the fields to meet with Russell. At about a quarter of a mile distant from the house, he met her, and held forth his hand to greet her. 
               "Stay, Mr. Russell," she said, eying him closely, and her whole frame trembling with agitation, "there is a small matter needs to be cleared up between us, or we must part for ever." 
               Russell was himself somewhat agitated, and the young lady perceived it. He, however, replied-"What is it, dear Emma? Let me know what you have to say, and I have no doubt I can settle it entirely to your satisfaction." 
               "I hope you may be able to do so, sir," replied Emma. "I have received this manuscript," she said; putting the sheets into his hand, her own hand trembling with hope and apprehension the while, "and-dear Russell-no, I cannot believe what they state. You cannot be the villain they would make you out to be; you cannot so have deceived me;" and bursting into tears, the poor girl bowed her head on the breast of the villain who supported her. He knew the handwriting, and his face became scarlet with rage. "Baffled again by that she-fiend!" he said to himself. He assumed a smiling face and said to the poor trembling creature, who leant on his arm: 
               "Is this all, dear? Allow me to take the manuscript. I see through the whole of it. It is a fabrication, love and you need not make yourself uneasy about it. I can see through it all; I wish to read it through, to see how far falsehood and villany will carry my enemies. Meanwhile, dearest, let's enjoy our walk, and to-morrow I will send you a reply, which shall completely disabuse your mind of the ill effects of this lying paper." 
               It is strange how prone we are to believe that which we hope. Emma dried up her tears, and enjoyed the brief hour of the stolen interview, strolling leisurely across the fields and building bright chateaux d' Espagne in the future. 
             
             
               CHAPTER 
                     XVI.
                     XVII.
                  
                
               Russell, at this period, and since he had connected himself with Dr. --, had taken lodgings in the upper part of the city, in a street branching off from Fifth-avenue. Here he kept a sort of bachelor's hall, occupying two rooms, on the first floor of a respectable boarding-house, as a bed-room and a sitting-room. He had not taken possession of his lodgings more than a few days, and had not as yet seen Emma, when he was told one morning after breakfast that a young man wished to see him. 
               He hesitated a moment; for he was, for certain reasons, cautious as to whom he admitted into his room; but on being informed that the young man was a foreigner of gentlemanly appearance, and not more than eighteen years of age, he directed that he should be shown up stairs. 
               A young stripling presented himself, and on being questioned by Russell as to what he wanted, he bluntly replied that he was in need of employment, and came to offer his services as a valet. 
               Russell laughed. 
               "A valet! Young man," he said. "You have come to the wrong place to look for such a situation as that. A bachelor with two rooms on the first floor of a boarding-house with a valet, would be rather rich. What put it into your head to seek me for the purpose of obtaining such employment?" 
               "I was in the store in Broadway, yesterday, when you purchased a ring, and I heard you inquire of the clerk whether he knew of a lad who would be willing to do the errands and odd jobs for a single gentleman. I followed you to find out where you lived, for I am rather particular as to the gentleman whom I serve. I liked your appearance, and your lodgings and the neighbourhood are respectable, and to-day I call to tender my services." 
               Russell could not help smiling; nevertheless, he was pleased with the neat, trim appearance, and good looks of the lad, as well as the delicate touch of flattery inferred, and the naivet with which it was spoken. 
               "I did need the services of a young man," he said, "but scarcely one of your appearance and address. You speak good English, but with a foreign accent. What countryman are you?" 
               "An American, where I can pass myself off as such; but Senor is too adroit to be deceived. I am a Cubano." 
               "A Cuban, eh?" said Russell, "I have had much to do with your countrymen, and they have often deceived me. How do I know that you will not do the same? What part of Cuba do you come from?" 
               "From within a mile of the city of Havana," replied the youth. Senor speaks harshly of my countrymen. A Spaniard cannot deceive, and I am of pure Castilian descent; besides, what should render deceit necessary?" 
               "Well, well, my lad, perhaps I was wrong in making a general assertion, or rather you misunderstood me. I tell you in plain terms that I like your appearance, and had I occasion for such services as you can probably render, I would gladly engage you; but I fear the wages I should pay would be too low, and the labor not that which would suit a sprightly youth like yourself. I merely require a lad for an hour or two in the morning to brush my clothes and boots, and to be on hand during the day, at certain stated hours, to run of errands, and do any odd job that may be required." 
               "'Beggars must not be choosers,' says an adage of your language," replied the youth. "Slight as I am I can do all the work that you require of me, and as to wages I am not particular; I could turn my hand to other things in my leisure hours, and I have a fancy to serve you, if you are not already provided." 
               "I am not provided," replied Russell, "and since you are willing, I perhaps will engage you. Have you any references?" 
               "None, Senor. I served a Spanish gentleman who has gone to Europe, and I know no one in this city to whom I could refer you. References are useless; the best reference is a trial of fidelity." 
               "And the loss of a gold watch and half a dozen pocket handkerchiefs, to prove the excellence of your theory," said Russell, laughing. "Well, my lad, I like your frankness, at any rate, and as you look tolerably honest and quick-witted, I engage you for a month on trial. You will have to attend here at seven o'clock in the morning, and wait until ten o clock, when you may go, only taking care to call in the afternoon, at three o'clock, in case I should have any letters for you to deliver, or any errand for you to go; also to call again in the evening about nine o'clock, when I will tell you what I may require to be done next morning." 
               "Very well, Senor. You shall have no reason to complain of inattention on my part." 
               The remuneration and such matters were then settled, and the youth was about retiring with orders to be at his post in the morning, when Russell recollected himself and called to the lad. "By the by, young man, you have not told me your name. What is it?" 
               "My name, Senor-my name is Pedro--Pedro Sebastian-that is it." 
               "Very well. Good-day, Pedro, and be here in good time in the morning." 
               A few hours later, and in a room of a small boarding-house, in Fulton-street, Brooklyn, two young females were seated conversing in Spanish. "So you have succeeded in entrapping the fox, Isadora," said the elder of the two. "You played the game well; all that is now necessary is to keep him in the net, and see that he does not escape. It may cost you some little trouble, but the end we have in view is worth the labor." 
               "I would do anything for the sake of poor Donna Inez, Senora Isabella," replied the young female, who was addressed by the name of Isadora. But we must go back a little while with our narrative to explain who was Isadora, and what was her connection with Isabella, who, the reader will recollect, is an old acquaintance. It will be remembered that Donna Inez, when first introduced in the somewhat equivocal character of Emilie of Walker-street, had a female domestic whom she called Annette. 
               This girl was a native of the same place as Inez, and they had met in New-York, by chance, shortly after Inez had arrived in this city, and was endeavoring to obtain her living as a needle-woman. Both had called at the same store to endeavor to get some piece-work that was to be given out, when a mutual recognition had taken place, and the two girls had gone home together, and from that time until the abduction of Inez in the Bonita, from Hoboken, they remained together through weal and woe-through good and through evil fortune. 
               It was not without surprise that Isadora met Inez in such destitution, and in a foreign land. In Martinique the two girls had held very different positions in society. Our readers know that the parents of Inez were wealthy; those of Isadora were poor-indeed, the mother of Isadora had been an upper servant in the family of Inez's father, and the two girls, in whose age there were but a few years' difference, had been playmates from childhood. This may seem strange even in republican America, but it must be recollected that there are no people who treat their dependents with the same consideration as the Spaniards; and, generally speaking, the domestics in a Spanish family grow old and gray in the service, and are almost in all respects treated as humble, but respected members of the family household. 
               In the family of Don Thomaso, this was peculiarly the case. The old gentleman and his worthy lady were remarkable for the amenity and general goodness of their dispositions, and Isadora had been treated more like a sister of Isabella, than like the daughter of a servant; the consequence was, that a sisterly affection had existed between the two girls. 
               When Isadora was about thirteen years of age, her father had received an offer to go to New-York, as the confidential servant of a Spanish gentleman. He spoke English fluently; and, strange to say, for a Cuban, he also read and wrote the language with facility. He was consequently of great service to the gentleman whom he had accompanied to New-York; and, finding his situation a remunerative one, for he had various opportunities of making money, he sent for his wife and child to New-York. 
               About twelve months after their arrival, the father and his master both died, almost at the same time, of cholera; and within a month or two afterwards, the widowed mother also sickened and died, leaving her daughter a destitute orphan in a strange land. 
               The poor girl, however, was possessed of great energy of character. The blow was a heavy one; but the necessity for action served to nerve her mind and to blunt the edge of her grief. From that time until she met with Inez, she had gained a scanty support by the needle. Well, then, may she have been surprised, as we have said, to find the once rich and proud Inez, whom she had left at Martinique, in the possession of every luxury and happiness that wealth could procure, the almost idolized child of a doating father and mother, and the envy of a host of female friends, in this wretched situation in New-York. A mutual explanation followed; both told their sad histories, and both resolved that they would work together, and live together, in the hope of the dawn of better days. 
               The subsequent career of Inez is known to our readers; that of Isadora was similar. Both had struggled with misery and starvation; both had unwillingly fallen, and when more prosperous but still more wretched days dawned-days rendered more wretched because that prosperity was the wages of sin, and embittered by remorse-Inez had changed her name and called herself Emilie; and Isadora, taking the name of Annette, assumed to be the waiting-maid of her companion. 
               In this position, she often, for various purposes, assumed a male attire, and our readers will recollect that one day when Russell called on Emilie the door was opened by a page, who for the moment appeared embarrassed as he ushered the visitor into the presence of his mistress. That page was Annette. Annette we have again introduced to our readers under her real name Isadora. 
               Isadora was, of course, ignorant of the fact of Inez's abduction, although she had suspected how matters had gone. She knew that Inez had gone out that day, in order to warn Emma of the danger which threatened her; for it was she who, in various disguises, had dogged his footsteps, had traced out all his evil schemes, and had informed Inez of what was going on as regarded his intrigues. 
               She, therefore, could have given information which, if not conclusive evidence, would at least have been more satisfac tory than any that was known relative to the disappearance of Russell and Emilie; but this she was deterred from doing, because she was doubtful if, in so doing, she would serve the cause of her friend. She feared the news coming to the ears of Russell, for she knew not whither the vessel had sailed, and she had that fear of his cruel and desperate character, learnt from what Inez had told her respecting him, that she feared, should evil come of her interference, he would wreak his vengeance on the unfortunate woman again thrown into his power. Isadora, therefore, uncertain what to do for the best, and weary and disgusted with the life she had been leading, had gone into the country and taken service in a farm-house, on Long Island, some twenty or thirty miles from New-York. 
               Months passed away and she heard nothing of her missing friend. When she had gone into the country, she had resumed her own proper name, and one day she was surprised to hear the farmer, who was a Quaker, reading aloud her name among the list of letters advertised in the post-office. 
               She started with mingled surprise, joy and apprehension, for her heart told her the letter was really for her, and from Inez. Was she well or ill? What was the news that letter was the bearer of? The name was so singular, and so rarely heard in America, there could be no mistake, and she was about to ask the farmer for the loan of the paper, in order that she might read it herself, when he anticipated her by saying- 
               "Dora, my girl, does thee expect any letters from thy folk in foreign parts, for I see thy name in the papers?" 
               "I am scarcely expecting a letter," said Isadora, who, by the way, was a great favorite with the farmer and his family, for she was naturally good humored and quick at learning, and had become quite and adept in the dairy; besides which, her conduct since she had joined the family had been marked with the strictest propriety. "I am scarcely expecting a letter, sir, but I have a dear friend whom I have not for a long time heard from, and from whom a letter would afford me the greatest satisfaction." 
               "Does thee think it's from thy lover Dora?" said the old farmer, smiling, "for thee has'nt had any lads after thee since thee's been with us, and that, as my good wife says, is strange for such a likely girl as thee?" 
               "No," said Isadora. "I think and hope it is from a lady whom I knew in Martinique and Havana, and whom I love as a sister." 
               "Well, Dora, I'll see when I go into the city, to market, to-morrow. Stay-thee shall go with me, and get thy letter, and then thee'l have the pleasure of reading it sooner, and there will be no fear of the post-office folk making any objection to its delivery." 
               Accordingly, on the following morning, Isadora mounted beside the farmer in the market-cart, and on reaching the city, she dismounted at the Fulton Ferry, and while the farmer went on to the market with his produce, she bent her stops to the post-office. 
               Sure enough, there was a letter for her, and in the hand-writing of Inez, too. She broke open the seal and read as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "VILLA REIJO, Bahia, "Brazils, --. 
                              "Mia Cara Isadora:-
                            
                           "I know not whether this letter will ever reach you; nor even whether you are now in New-York. Little did I think, when last we parted, as we thought but for an hour or two, that long months would roll by before we met again. 
                           "Your pain at this sudden separation must have been as great as my own; for you of course would be left in suspense as to what had become of me." * * * * 
                           Here followed a narrative of the events which had befallen Inez since they had parted, which are already furnished to the reader. 
                           * * * "This letter, Cara Isadora, will be delivered to you by Senora Isabella --, if she can find you; you have often heard me speak of her. She came into our family after you had left us to go to New-York. 
                            
                           "She will instruct you as to the course I wish you to pursue respecting Russell, who is now in New-York, and I fear has evil intentions as regards poor Emma --. 
                           "I only ask you to do this, dear Isadora, for the love I know you bear me, and any money that may be needed to carry out our object, the Senora Isabella has promised to furnish. Of course, dear, I cannot expect you to do this, if it interferes with any arrangement you have made since my departure from New-York. But if you can aid us I know you will for my sake. * * * * 
                           "I once thought, Isadora, that happiness would visit me no more in this world, and that eternal misery awaited me in the world to come. We have both sinned deeply, yet neither of us for the sake of the sin; but still remorse clung to me with an iron grip, and all your well-meaning endeavors could not make the fiend relax his hold upon my mind. You will be glad to learn, Isadora, that a different feeling now animates me-an angel has been mercifully sent, to lead me back from the pit of darkness, whose brink I was approaching. Isadora, I have found my boy living and beautiful as a cherub, and since that day I have dared to hope-and to hope, until now I am almost happy. Isabella will tell you all, if this letter should reach you, as I hope it will; and, dear, let me pray of you, if you still lead the life-a life that I know you, as well as I, abhorred-that we led in New-York; let me earnestly beg of you to quit it for ever. You can do so, even as I have done, and you will be-how much happier! even though you do struggle with poverty and meet with contempt and scorn. 
                           "Perhaps you will smile at me for giving this advice, and say it is Satan teaching virtue; but, believe me, dearest, I am telling the truth. Oh! may it be told before it is too late. I will not write more, as you will learn all from Isabella, if she finds you out; and if not, alas! all my writing will be in vain. 
                           
                              "Your affectionate sister, 
                              INEZ."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Poor, dear Inez!" said Isadora to herself, upon perusing the letter, "I have, thank heaven! already found that which you advise to be true, and glad indeed I am, that you, too, have changed your mode of life." 
               Then recollecting herself she thought "How in the world am I to find out Isabella in the midst of this crowded city?" She again looked at the superscription of the letter, when a faint pencil-mark at the bottom of the address attracted her notice. It was this: 
               "If this letter should reach the hands of Senora Isadora she will be able to communicate with Isabella -- at No. -, Fulton-street, Brooklyn." 
               As soon as she had seen this, Isadora set off to find out the farmer, and to solicit permission to remain in the city until the following day, as she was obliged, in consequence of news contained in the letter she had received, to call upon a friend in Brooklyn, and the business would in all probability detain her for a long time. 
               "With all my heart, my good girl," said the farmer, "only mind thee doesn't get into mischief in this city, and when Silas comes to market to-morrow, thee can meet him here and he will drive thee home in the evening. Hast thee heard bad news of thy friends?" 
               "Oh no; good news," replied Isadora; and thanking the worthy farmer for his ready compliance with her wishes, she hastily made her way to the locality pointed out on the outside of the letter. 
               She was received with great joy by Isabella, who had given up all hopes of finding her, and who had as yet not delivered the manuscript to Emma --. She was in great need of some aid in the business she had undertaken, and although the two young women were personally unknown to each other, still they both knew so much of Inez and her family that they were in a few minutes old friends. 
               That night all the business was talked over and arranged, and much to her regret Isadora found that she would, if she followed the directions of Isabella, be compelled to quit the worthy family with whom she had passed so many comparatively happy months. 
               She went home the next day, as she had promised, and mentioned that the business she had briefly spoken about on the day before would oblige her to reside in New-York, and that, therefore, she must necessarily leave the farm. 
               The good old farmer and his wife lamented this necessity on her part so much that, had it not been for her almost devotion to Inez, she would not have left them, even after her promise to Isabella; but she was not one to be turned from a determination once made, and with mutual good wishes she and her good friends parted, Isadora receiving a hearty invitation to visit the farm whenever she pleased, and to stay as long as she liked; also to return there again to live, if her business would allow her to do so at any future time, however distant. The poor, friendless, foreign girl had enlisted, by her many amiable qualities, all the sympathies of the honest Long Island farmer and his wife. 
               Isadora, at Isabella's request, took up her abode with her at Brooklyn, and though both endeavored to devise some scheme by which they could expose the evil intentions of Russell, in such a manner as to satisfy Emma -- that what they said was correct, for some days they were unable to hit upon any feasible plan. Indeed, they could not find out Russell, and began to doubt whether he really was in the city. 
               At length, he was one day recognized and watched home to his lodgings by Isabella; he, the meanwhile, not having the faintest idea that his old lieutenant was so near him, and actually dogging his footsteps. From that time forward he was watched by Isadora, until she found out he was wanting a servant, when the conversation took place mentioned at the beginning of this chapter. 
               A few days after this, the manuscript of Inez was delivered by Isabella at the counting-room of Mr. --, in Broad-street, and on her calling for a reply a day or two afterwards, she was directed to call and see the young lady, at the mansion in Westchester county. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               We mentioned in a former chapter that Isabella was requested by Inez to call upon her father upon her arrival at the island of Martinique, where certain business required her presence before she came on to New-York. 
               She fulfilled her promise. As soon as the vessel came to an anchor in the roads she went on shore, and having transacted the business which pertained to herself and which related to certain matters connected with her engagement on board the Bonita, she hastened to the residence of the old merchant, whom she met in the grounds in front of the house. 
               She readily recognized him, although the dark hair in which, when she had last seen him, but a few silver threads were visible, was now as white as driven snow, and the firm step was tottering, and the brisk, cheerful voice was cracked and trembling as he spoke to a negro servant who was engaged in some garden duties. 
               Isabella at once approached him, and laying her hand lightly upon his shoulder, she said: 
               "Do you not recollect me, Don Thomaso?" 
               "No!" exclaimed the old man, as he gazed vacantly in her face, "no-you are not Inez. She is dead-and yet I know your face-who are you; and do you bring me any news of my child?" 
               "I am Isabella de --. You surely recollect me, Senor. Isabella, whom you were so kind to when a little girl, and who left you shortly after your daughter had disappeared from home." 
               "Yes-yes-I recollect Isabella de-. She was a good little girl, but you are not she. Isabella was much younger than you are. She was younger than Inez, and you are a grown woman"-said the old man, whose mind was evidently wandering with the mingled effects of old age and trouble-"and yet you resemble Isabella, too. Tell me, do you know anything of my child-my darling Inez? Why did she leave her father-but she is dead-dead-long ago, or she would have written to the old man. She was a good, kind child, was my Inez; but they took her from me, poor girl, and would not let her come near me again. She used to play about me, and climb my knees, and put her little arms round my neck, and gather flowers and bring to me. See here, she gave me this, and I am going to keep it till she returns, or till I am laid beside her in the grave," and the poor old man drew from his bosom a dried rose bud attached to a blue silk ribband, which probably had been given to him by Inez a short time before she left him, or which he had afterwards taken from her room, and cherished as a memento of his heart's idol. 
               "I am Isabella de --, Senor," exclaimed the young woman, who was much affected by the sight of an old man she so highly esteemed, now a venerable wreck of his former self, shattered both in body and mind. "I am indeed Isabella; and Inez, your daughter, is not dead. She is living in the Brazils, and is desirous to see you once more, to ask your forgiveness, and to bring her child with her to see his grandfather. Inez was not willingly guilty, and she wishes now to return to the parent she loved so dearly, and who has never for one moment been forgotten by her. Say you would be willing to see her; for she dreads your anger, and I will write to her to return to your arms. In one month she will be restored to you to quit you no more while you live." 
               "Inez not dead-her child. Ah! now I recollect all. Ten thousand curses upon the villain who betrayed her and robbed me," exclaimed the old man with every symptom of impotent fury; "was it not enough for the wretch, the ungrateful villain, to steal my vessel from me-to plunder me who had, at the intercession of my daughter, stepped between him and starvation, but he must also steal away my child-rob me of all that bound me to the world after the death of my wife. Inez not dead! you say-then bring her to me this instant, woman, whoever you be-tell her I forgive her all-all. Go; you are deceiving me-think not to play upon the weakness of an old man. My daughter is dead or she would have been with me ere this-the wretch Senor Felix murdered her-murdered my child and stole my vessel from me. Go, go-" 
               The poor old man sank down exhausted on a garden seat and bowed his head, while scalding tears coursed down his furrowed cheeks. 
               Isabella stood silently gazing with emotion upon his sorrow; but she did not speak; she knew it was best to let nature have her way unmolested, and in the course of a few minutes the old man raised his head, and seeing her still standing by his side, he looked incredulously into her face as if seeking for further information, and yet doubtful still of the truth or even the purport of that which she had been telling him. 
               Isabella saw that his mind was clearer, and his temper calmer; the few bitter tears he had shed had done their work; and she again told him of his daughter, and gave him a brief review of all the sorrows through which she had passed. 
               This time the old man listened calmly, and when she had concluded he took her hand within his own trembling palm, and besought her to forgive him for what he had said. 
               "My mind is clearer now," he added, "but sometimes, when I think of my child, it wanders, and I forget everything and everybody. I am a poor, feeble old man, and, in a few months more, I shall sink into my grave, and I hope find that peace in Heaven which I have not known on earth since Inez left me. My only hope was that we would all be re-united there-Inez, her mother, and I; but if, indeed, my daughter lives, bid her hasten to me before my eyes are closed forever to the things of this world. I know you now, Isabella; I recollect you went to seek to recover my poor Inez. I thought you both were dead, and the old man alone remained, solitary and lonely, cumbering the earth, while the young buds had been ruthlessly torn from him, and had withered and gone. Thank God! it is not so. I will not believe you are deceiving an old man who has done you no wrong. Write then to Inez; bid her hasten to me; let me see the letter and I will sign my own name to it, that she will see her old father's handwriting, and hurry to meet him." 
               Isabella wrote that same day to the Brazils, and after staying a day or two with the old gentleman, she hastened on her journey to New-York. 
               Inez received the letter in due time, and perused it with many tears. The old man, in a trembling handwriting which she could hardly recognize as that of her father, had added a postscript beseeching his child to hasten to him if she would find him alive, for he knew his end was approaching, and Inez immediately made preparations for her departure. A vessel was to leave in the course of the week, and in that vessel she engaged a berth, and in a few days she was on her way, accompanied by her child, to visit the scenes of her own early girlhood, where she had ever known happiness, and where, when she took the unfortunate step which had led to such a series of evils, she had left her peace of mind behind her. 
               It cannot be said that the voyage was a pleasant one to her; for feelings of remorse and of repentance for that pride which led her to turn aside from the home which under any circumstances and at any moment would have proved a haven of refuge, checked the joy she might otherwise have experienced. And then she recollected the enduring kindness of her father, and her conscience smote her for the manner in which she had repaid his paternal care and love, and fears would arise in her mind that now she would be perhaps too late, and she felt that if she could not arrive in time to receive his blessing before his aged head was laid in the grave, the image of her ingratitude would forever be present to her mind, and a bitter feeling of remorse would cling to her throughout her future life. 
               Then again brighter visions would arise, and she would hope that the intelligence of her father's rapid failing was exaggerated. He was not so very aged, and he had ever been a hale and hearty man, and she hoped that many years of life yet remained to him, and pleased herself with the idea of soothing him in his path to the grave, and by her tenderness and care in some measure canceling her past sins of pride and ingratitude. 
               And then her boy-her darling Jose; would not his grandfather be proud of the beautiful child? would he not grow young again while listening to his infantile prattle? And so, as the vessel gently glided along before the mild breezes of the tropic sea, she would feel her heart lightened of half its load of cares, and believe that a deep well of happiness yet lay before her, from which she might draw full draughts of the purest delight; and as she sat upon the deck of the vessel, beneath the awning, in the bright moonlight nights, with her boy resting his head on her knees-when the queen of night appeared to float in the atmosphere, and gave a light almost as brilliant, although more soft and dreamy, than that of the gorgeous orb of day-she would watch the reflection of the moonbeams on the water, causing the ripples of the water to glisten as if tipped with silver, and review her past life; the happiness of her years of childhood, the misfortunes of her ill-advised love, the guilt and wretchedness of her later years, and her heart would overflow with thankfulness to heaven, that she had been snatched from the very brink of the abyss towards which she was hastening, to the certain destruction of both body and soul. 
               At length the vessel arrived at Martinique, and Inez hastened on shore. 
               Senor Hibera had been expecting the vessel, for he had received a letter written by her on the very moment of the receipt of that from Isabella, which had been in his possession for three or four days. 
               His residence was some miles in the country, and the house was surrounded by large and tasteful pleasure grounds, which extended for nearly half a mile in front of the principal entrance. This long distance the poor old man had traversed in his eagerness to welcome back his daughter. 
               As she approached the gate, she recognized him, and seizing her child in her arms, she sprang from the low vehicle in which she was seated, and flung herself at his feet. 
               "My father-my dear father," was all she uttered, here is my boy-forgive us. I will never leave you again." 
               And the old man flung his arms around the returning prodigal, and lifted up his voice and blessed her and her boy; and peace and happiness stole over her heart as she listened to the words, for she felt that the blessing had been accepted above. For a few moments they remained locked in each other's arms in silence-the father, the daughter and the child-until Inez felt the weight of her father's arms grow heavier, and she raised her head, and looked up at his face. 
               Heavier still grew the arms which rested around her neck; she shrieked and fainted-the old man had died in the very act of beseeching the blessing of heaven upon his repentant daughter. The servant who attended disengaged the arms of the two senseless bodies, and bore them into the house, while another endeavored to restore the weeping child, who was frightened by the scene. 
               Inez was a long time in returning to consciousness; but the prattle of the boy at length aroused her. She wept bitterly, for deeply she felt the death of her parent at this especial moment. Still, the knowledge that he had blessed her before his spirit winged its flight above, gave a gleam of comfort to her soul, and the knowledge that her child required her to live, and care for him, told her the necessity of action. * * 
               * * * A funeral party have assembled in a darkened room; a coffin, with the lid yet unscrewed, rested upon a table, and in that coffin lay the remains of Don Thomaso. The features of the old man are lit up with a happy smile, such as those who had known him in the latter years of his life had never witnessed upon his face. A female and a young child are gazing upon the features of the departed, the child half fearful clinging to the skirts of his mother's dress, not knowing what to make of death. The face of the female is pallid as that of the corpse; but there are no tears; her bosom heaves and gasps convulsively; but the grief within is too deep for tears. At length, the last moment has arrived, and she turns from the painful spectacle-the coffin lid is screwed down, and the body is borne to the grave, amid the tears of friends, and the loud lamentations of a host of faithful negroes; the vault is filled up, and the funeral cortege has departed, and days pass by, and every day that female form, and that pallid face, may be seen at the spot, and flowers are sown on the turf around, and the child is led thither by its mother, and there taught to pray that he may never know the temptations, the griefs, the guilt, which have visited his afflicted parent. * * * * 
               The will of Don Thomaso de Hibera was read, and it was found that his entire wealth was left to Inez and her child. He had had the will drawn up on the very morning of his death, as if in anticipation of the event. 
               Thus Inez found herself possessed of a large fortune; but, unwilling to remain on the island, which recalled to her so many scenes of distress, she, after a few weeks, sold the whole of her property for a very large sum in ready money, and took her departure for Havana. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               On the day appointed, Isabella called at the residence of the merchant, in Westchester, and was immediately ushered into the presence of Miss --. 
               She was but coldly received, for Emma had almost made up her mind that the whole story was a fabrication. Still, there remained a doubt. She could not comprehend for what purpose such an attempt at imposition had been made, and then it explained so graphically the mysterious affair at Hoboken, that doubts and fears mingled with her confidence in the honesty of her lover. These conflicting feelings which agitated her bosom were visible enough in her pale cheek, her compressed lip, and her short, rapid breathing, as she motioned to Isabella to follow her into her own private room. 
               "You are a French woman?" said Emma. 
               "No, Senora, I am a Spanish Creole by birth; but I am acquainted with the French language." 
               "Did you write the manuscript you sent me by the hands of my father?" 
               "No, Senora. It was written by the lady whose name is signed at the bottom of the manuscript-Donna Inez de Hibera." 
               "What motive had the writer in sending me the manuscript? Does she suppose that I am unaware of the deceit she would practice upon me. I have the best possible proof that this story is false, and is dictated by feelings of hatred and spleen towards the person whose character it seeks to traduce, or to myself." 
               "I know the Senora Inez to be incapable of deceit in this instance. Is it not enough that she has herself confessed her own guilt to prove that she is actuated solely by a desire to preserve others from the snares into which she herself has fallen? besides, Senora, I know Mr. Russell, whom you find mentioned in the manuscript as Don Felix, to be a greater villain than he is there represented." 
               "Ha! you know Mr. Russell, then," said Emma. "Will you in that case meet him here in my presence and then and there assert what you have just stated to me? If you will do that, and he is unable to satisfactorily rebut your accusations, then I will believe the writer of the manuscript speaks the truth; otherwise, I shall have just reasons for believing the whole matter to be a gross fabrication, got up for the purpose of injuring the character of Mr. Russell-perhaps," she added, haughtily, "by some base disappointed rival." 
               Isabella knew not how to reply to this. If she saw Russell face to face, notwithstanding her apparent change of sex and her real change of costume, he could scarcely fail to recognize her, or at least to have suspicions which would perhaps lead to unpleasant circumstances. She did not fear to meet him, but she feared the bursting of a plot of the nature of which she herself was not entirely cognizant, before it was ripe. She was not prepared with a reply to a question which involved such hazards, and she stammeringly said, that for certain reasons which she could not then explain, she would rather not at that moment be confronted with Don Felix. 
               "Miserable woman!" said Emma, "do I need further evidence to satisfy me of your baseness. I would do well to cause you to be arrested and examined relative to your motives, or the motives of those who have employed you in this scandalous business; but I am unwilling that a subject so disgraceful to you, and implicating the character of an honorable and high-minded gentleman should be made public. However, you have relieved a load from my heart, and now I hope that you will leave me and trouble me no further." 
               Isabella had nothing left but to quit the house. "Well," she said, "it is astonishing, and would almost tempt one to believe that there is truth in the old adage-'The d-l never forsakes his own.' Everything Don Felix takes in hand, however base it may be, and however much others may seek to controvert its evil influences, by some stroke of fortune succeeds. If he had not been coming here this afternoon, I could have produced evidence that would have satisfied the lady that the manuscript told nothing but the truth-that Don Felix, or Russell, as the silly girl calls him, is only seeking her to gratify his own base purposes, and that he will eventually betray her; and now, a pretty job I have done; by refusing to meet this Russell-what strange, unpronounceable names these Americans have-by refusing to meet Don Felix, I at once gave color to the belief of the lady that the whole affair is, as he has observed, a gross fabrication. But one course remains for me, and that is, to write immediately to Miss -- and state, honestly and openly, my reasons for not wishing to meet Don Fe-Russell, I mean, and to reveal the mystery of the whole affair. But then that oath! and again, can I trust the lady that she will not betray me to Don Felix. I can't trust a woman with a secret. I'm catching myself blabbing almost every day since I donned the petticoats, although I was true as steel in my assumed male attire. 
               "Psha! what nonsense I'm talking! but, however, it will not do to expose the whole affair to Miss --; so I must go home and think over some other plan. Meanwhile, I will consult with Isadora." 
               Isabella had by this time reached the depot at Harlem, and the subject occupied her thoughts all the way home. 
               In the mean time, Russell, not without some misgivings, had called upon Emma according to promise. He had taken the manuscript home with him and carefully read it, and though it contained some mysterious allusions, the key to which the reader has in his possession in his knowledge of the true character of Isadora and Isabella, but which were incomprehensible to Russell, yet he found the account so graphic and so connected that he trembled for the effect it would have upon the mind of Emma, when she came to reflect calmly and dispassionately upon it. The very mystery attending certain portions of the narrative only served still more to awaken his apprehensions, and it was not without a feeling of relief that, on meeting Emma, she exclaimed, while a rich blush mantled her fair cheek: "Dear Russell, think no more of that silly, malicious manuscript. I have had proof sufficient that its allegations are all false." The lovers, or rather the confiding girl and the base deceiver-for it would be a libel upon the appellation of "lover" if we were to class Russell as such-pursued their walk in one of the shady groves in the vicinity of the house, which was however sufficiently distant from the public road or from any frequented path, to render their walk perfectly private. The mother of Emma -- was aware that her daughter took a walk every day, when the weather was favorable, and often when most ladies would not care to be abroad; but the returning roses to her cheek and her restored cheerfulness, caused her gladly to acquiesce in the rambling propensities of her daughter, and so weeks passed away, and still, while enjoying these stolen interviews, the fair girl would beseech her lover to allow her to introduce him into the house, or at least to speak to her father respecting him and sound the old gentleman's ideas upon a question which she thought involved her future happiness; and still did he refuse to listen, and betrayed, by his ill-concealed impatience when the subject was introduced, such an irritability, that at last Emma, who had become entirely subjected to his control, forbore to press the matter; and as she grew silent, he grew bolder, and at first hinted, then insinuated, then urged the necessity, for the sake of the mutual happiness of each, of a private marriage. 
               For a long time, poor deluded Emma would not listen to this; but well the villain knew the virtue of perseverance, and, at length, though Emma would not give her consent, the subject became common-place, and daily occupied a considerable portion of the time dedicated to their stolen interviews. 
               Russell pleaded his ardent love, and painted the felicity of love enjoyed while life was yet young, and the folly of waiting until he had reached a position in which he could legitimately claim her hand with the formal consent of her parents. And Emma listened, and wept and smiled; and, at last, one unhappy day she consented. 
               And where, all these weeks, were the self-constituted guardians of innocence, Isabella and Isadora? 
               The force of circumstances, the d-l's luck, to use a vulgar expression of Russell, had put them entirely at fault. Russell seldom communicated anything relative lative to his engagements during the day to his valet, who, in fact, enjoyed almost a sinecure; and though Isadora, or, as we must call her, "Pedro," had traced him to Westchester, and had seen him sauntering in the woods, with his arm affectionately encircling Emma's waist, as she gazed lovingly and confidingly up in his face, she could not learn anything relative to his immediate intentions, nor could Isabella devise any way to warn the dovecote, that a serpent was at hand, watching to deal a death-blow with his poisonous fangs, upon the fairest pet of the brood; for neither of these young women had any clue wherefrom to conceive a plan of action. 
               At length one morning when "Pedro" attended, as usual, to receive his orders for the day, his master informed him, that he should probably not require his services much longer, as he was about to be married; and he, at the same time, placed a note in his hand, desiring him to go to one of the piers on the 'East River, and deliver the letter to the captain of the sloop-which lay at the end of the pier. 
               This was duly done, and then, "Pedro," or Isadora, lost no time in crossing the Fulton-ferry, and making known to Isabella, the news she had heard. As yet, they had little ground to work upon; but they determined to renew their vigilance, and to adopt their measures according to the circumstances that might be developed. 
               That same evening, our old acquaintance, "Tom," presented himself at the lodgings of Russell, and was secretly closeted with him for an hour; Isadora, although closely on the watch, was entirely baffled in her endeavors to penetrate into the mystery. As, however, we ourselves heard the story from the lips of the wretched man, when remorse had seized his mind on his death-bed, we may be permitted here to draw aside the curtain, and expose the mysteries of the secret closet. 
               "Tom" was seated, attired in his rough rover seaman's dress, at a small table, opposite Russell, whose now prim, puritanical garb, and pale, manly features, contrasted vividly with the rude appearance, and rough, sun-burnt countenance of his companion, and the following conversation passed between the two men, alike desperadoes, though each so widely different from the other in manners, education, even in feeling, save their mutual participation in crime of the blackest dye. 
               "Well, Mr. Russell, it is a long time since we crossed our legs under the same bit of mahogany, and I suppose there's some d-1's work on hand, or I should not have had the honor of an invitation now." 
               "I think, Tom, you have little cause of complaint; if circumstances prevented our meeting often, I, at least, took care you were well provided for. You must have been making money on the river lately, and you know you were pretty well used up when I fell in with you." 
               "To be sure, Mr. Russell, I was only speaking in my off-hand way. I meant no harm. I have been making some dimes on the river, by more means than one-I'm not afraid to own up to you, and I am now ready and willing for any job that may come to my hand, so that I can make anything by it. So let's know what I am to do at once." 
               "Something not altogether in your line, Tom; but I have no one else whom I can employ, that will serve my purpose. Do you think you can stand being a methodist parson for a few days, Tom?" 
               "Why, Mr. Russell, to tell you the truth, I think you look more like a methodist parson yourself, but I am willing to put my hand to any thing; so only tell me how to act." 
               "Well, then, I have been paying some delicate attentions to a little girl who resides a few miles in the country, and I have persuaded the girl at last into marrying me, and I want a sham marriage got up; at the same time have your sloop at hand, in case we should want to make a wedding trip-you understand what I mean, and I'll be forthcoming with the pay for your trouble." 
                
               "But," said Tom, a little taken aback at the idea of the novel part he was to perform, "but, Mr. Russell, I shall look like a d--d rum sort of a parson, with this carbuncled phiz, and these here big flippers of mine, and a voice like a boats wain's mate, into the bargain. The girl will twig the mischief that's brewing, and no mistake; however, if you only say the word, here goes to try it." 
               "Oh, you'll do well enough," said Russell, smiling at the evident truth of his companion's remarks; "you will do well enough. You'll be a jolly old priest, and fond of good living, and all that sort of thing; and, as to your flippers, why we must stuff them into kid gloves, if a pair can be got big enough in New-York, for I must say your finger-nails don't look altogether the thing, setting aside the horny digits themselves; but, as the French say, 'revenons  nos moutons.' I may take the girl on board your vessel, and perhaps, as the weather is warm, she may feel faint after taking a drink; do you understand me? So get a comfortable mattress on board the craft, for her to lie down upon, and tidy up the cabin as much as possible, and make things look ship-shape, in case the vessel should be required; and if not, no matter. It is as well to be prepared, at all events. As for the necessary parson's geer, I will procure that, so now go on board; keep sober for one day, if you can, and make some little acquaintance with soap and water. Here's a suit of mine which fits me loosely, take that with you, and see if you can squeeze your ungainly carcass into it; and if the legs of the pants are too long, spend an hour or so to-morrow in fitting them properly; and be here at five o'clock in the afternoon, when I will tutor you as to the role you will have to play; the marriage will come off at eight o'clock, so be punctual to the time I have stated, and recollect what I have said about the drink. Here is a V. as earnest money; and now, good-night." 
               Isabella had no doubt, any more than had Isadora, that some villany was about to be practised respecting this new movement on the part of Russell, and they suspected that Emma was connected with it; but, in the absence of proof to that effect, they knew not in what manner to interfere. 
               The following morning, however, when "Pedro" was receiving his usual directions for the day from his master, he ventured to ask who was the lady whom he was about to marry. 
               The good looks and attentive habits of the supposed servant lad, had rendered him rather a favorite with Russell, and he good-humoredly told him it was the daughter of a gentleman residing at Westchester, and doing business in the city; and also that the wedding was to come off that same evening at seven o'clock. 
               This at once satisfied Isadora that her suspicions, as well as those of Isabella, were correct, and she hastened away to Brooklyn, to convey the additional information she had now received, to her friend. 
               The two young women talked the matter over, and took their measures accordingly. 
               At the appointed hour in the afternoon, the seaman Tom made his appearance, clad in the black suit of clothes that Russell had given him on the previous day, and looking very much like a seedy, drunken undertaker, or a loafing bar-room cobbler, who had had "a call to preach the gospel," in utter defiance of the rules of Lindlay Murray. His large paws, which he was so fearful would betray his calling, and show that he really did work for his living, were encased in a very large-sized pair of black kids; the curved, crooked, knotty fingers being as stiff in their unaccustomed restraint as though they were formed of wood. His black, coarse, straight hair was combed down over his eyes, after the most approved fashion of modern Methodist piety, and his tout ensemble had an indescribably odd appearance. He looked to be a strange fish; but not a stranger fish, nor perhaps a more rare one, than is to be met with every day in our city, attired in the fancied garb of sanctity, but bearing a wolf's heart beneath a sheep's clothing. 
                
               "Well, Tom," said Russell, who, despite his warnings of the previous day, had had some misgivings of his old croney's self-command, and who feared that he would sacrifice too freely to the jolly god, to be able to aid him in carrying out the villanous project he had in contemplation. "Well, Tom, so you are true to your appointment, and, I am glad to say, sober. Excuse me; but, knowing your little infirmity in that regard, I feared for your discretion; now, to work! First, fix on this pair of spectacles-nay, you needn't wince," for Tom began to object, saying, he never could see through spectacles of any kind; "you needn't wince, old boy, there are no glasses in them. I only wish you to wear them in order to give you an air of respectability and sanctity, and heaven knows you need it. Well, I declare, quite an improvement," he added, as he stepped back, and looked at the effect of the gold rims of the glassless spectacles on Tom's rubicund, carbuncled face. 
               "No gammon, Mr. Russell," said Tom, who, somehow or other, by no means relished the job he had in hand. It was rather out of his line. Had it been to knock the girl on the head, or commit any other outrage, he would have been quite au fait to the business; but as to assisting at a mock marriage, he had some compunctions-in fact, he feared he should not get through, especially as Russell would not allow him even one glass of brandy to "steady his hand," as he termed it. 
               "There, Tom, that's famous. Now, put on this gown, and then take yonder prayer-book; see, I have turned it down at the 'marriage service,' and just study carefully the sentences I have marked." 
               With a bad grace Tom submitted, Russell having promised that he should have no reason, to regret the job, if he performed it faithfully and the scheme succeeded. 
               Russell left him locked in his room, and went to meet Emma, as had been arranged between them. 
               With many compunctions of conscience, poor Emma had, during the day, been half-a-dozen times on the point of confessing the whole affair to her mother; but shame, pride and love prevailed over duty, and she left the house as had been arranged, bringing with her the whole of her jewelry, and such other little valuables of her own as could be packed in a narrow compass; she met Russell, entered a carriage with him, and they drove to his lodgings. A cold chill struck to her heart as she entered into the still, cheerless, gloomy boarding-house, so different from the home she had left. Perhaps even then she would have gladly retraced her steps; but it was too late. The die had been cast, and she was doomed to abide its hazard. 
               Russell supported her as she ascended the staircase, and opening the door of his room, he introduced her to the clergy-man, who, greatly to the surprise of Russell, was comfortably snoozing upon a lounge, the prayer-book, which, it appeared, he had been intently studying, having dropped from his hand upon the floor. 
               The fact is, during the absence of Russell, Tom, who had been all day without his accustomed periodically recurring potations of brandy, had commenced a search in the hope to find some little stimulant to aid him in carrying out his out of the-way job. 
               He had searched for some time without finding anything, but at length his patience was rewarded by the discovery of a bunch of keys in a small box upon the mantle-shelf, one of which fitted an ebony bureau in one corner of the room which instinct had long before told Tom contained the object of his soul's adoration. 
               He opened it, and a tempting display of spirits, wines and liquors, met his ravished gaze. He smelt of each, and as delicate wines of tempting aroma passed in review before him, he placed them, decanter by decanter, aside, with a contemptuous psha! until at length he came across a bottle of cognac. This seemed to suit him, and in a few minutes the decanter was empty. 
               Thus recruited, Tom sat down to study his part, but the lines soon appeared double. He cursed the glassless spectacles as the cause, and threw them from him; but he found that the double vision still remained, and he laid himself out on the lounge and closed his eyes, in the hope of restoring them to their customary distinctness of vision, and in a few moments was fast asleep. 
               Russell advanced towards the sleeping drunkard, after having shown Emma into another room, that she might divest herself of her shawl and bonnet, and shook him roughly by the arm. 
               A drunken snort was his only reply. At length, he succeeded in arousing the sleeper, and hastily whispering to him to attend to his instructions, or he would ruin all, he proceeded to fetch up the servant of the house, whom he had engaged to act as a witness of the ceremony, in order to give confidence to Emma. He then brought the poor girl from the adjoining room, and the cruel, mock solemnity was proceeded with. Tom took up the prayer-book, and Russell and the deceived victim of his unholy passions stood before him. 
               "A man may not marry his grandmother," commenced Tom, who had opened the book at the wrong place. Fortunately for Russell the poor victim was in too faint a state of perturbation of mind to heed what was going forward. 
               Russell hastily set the mock parson right, and after one or two more ridiculous slips, the ceremony was concluded-Emma had pronounced the mystic words, "I will"-in her case how rashly and how vainly! and Russell saw the hopes of months almost realized. They did not long remain in the house after the mock ceremony was concluded. Tom had in a great measure recovered from the effect of the fumes of the spirit he had imbibed, and the party, minus the servant girl, entered a carriage which was in waiting, and proceeded in the direction of the river. Russell had informed his half-fainting dupe, who gave herself up entirely to him, that he had engaged a small cottage some short distance up the North River, where they might reside until the first outburst of anger was over that might be expected from the parents of Emma; and, to provide against interference, he also told her that he had hired a sloop for the especial purpose of carrying the party up, and the clergyman who had married them would bear them company. 
               They had reached Tom's sloop and were on the point of going on board, when a hackney-coach hurriedly drove up, and amid the darkness they could see glittering upon the breasts of three persons within it, the stars of the police department. A fourth inmate of the vehicle was an elderly gentleman; besides whom there was a lady and a slender young man, whom Russell recognized as his servant "Pedro." 
               "Surrender, in the name of the commonwealth!" said one who appeared to be the chief of the party of police, while Emma, giving a scream, rushed into the arms of the elderly gentleman, her father, who bore her to the carriage, where she was immediately attended to by the lady. Meanwhile, Russell and Tom had gained the deck of the sloop; the former with superhuman strength having dragged the lad, unknown to the party on shore, into the sloop with him, and her sails being already loosed, she was in a minute beyond the reach of her pursuers, especially as the night was, intensely dark, and rain had commenced to fall. 
               "Curse you!" said Russell to the lad, when they had reached the middle of the river, "you at least shall not escape my vengeance, for to you I owe this mishap, fool that I was to trust a cursed creole," and seizing the trembling lad by the throat, he gave him a heavy blow upon the temple and flung him into the river. The body was immediately borne out of sight astern, for the tide was running fast, and the vessel and her crew of murderers pursued their way up the waters of the Hudson. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               In writing a narrative such as this we have undertaken, we are compelled to break off often abruptly at the most interesting teresting portions of the story, in order to fetch up the lagging characters and make the whole matter go on, as sailors say, "ship-shape and Bristol fashion." 
               We turn back now to one, who, although he has not been a prominent actor in the events which we have recorded, was the first whom we introduced to the reader. We allude to poor, unfortunate Frank Morton. 
               If this were an ordinary narrative of fiction, nothing would be easier than to make Emma, after she became acquainted with the duplicity and villany of the wretch to whom she had given her heart's best affections, feel some symptoms of remorse for the manner in which she had treated her earlier and more faithful lover, and as they do things up in a play, to marry all parties happily in the closing scene before the curtain drops-to punish vice and to proclaim suffering virtue triumphant. We know this looks very pretty in a play, and is very gratifying to the tender hearts of the ladies who sympathize with the young lovers, and so forth; but unhappily it is not always true. Somehow or other, in this strangely constituted world of ours, vice does not alway meet with its due punishment, neither is virtue rewarded, except with the best reward of a light and easy conscience. On the contrary, we often see vice riding the high horse in lofty places, while virtue humbly holds the stirrup for her to mount and prance gaily away, the admired of all admirers; but this is a digression; revenons  nos moutons, as the French say, which, being interpreted literally, means, "Let us return to our muttons," or, as we should say, to our subject. 
               Our last chapter was an unconscionably long one, but in this one we shall have to tell a tale of virtue and suffering unrewarded and uncared for until the suffering spirit had fled, and it' mattered little what became of the poor, worn-out body. And this may be told in a few words. 
               We left Frank sadly fallen from his high estate; cast off by his early love; turned away with suspicion by his employer from a situation he had held confidentially, for a number of years, and all without a particle of real blame that should have been attached to himself. 
               We left him doing the duties of a light porter, at a salary of $6 per week, and at the same time in a very feeble state of health. He was indeed poor enough, and too proud to complain or to beg. He suffered on, scarcely able to do the duties of his office, and yet fearful of resting for a day for fear of losing the scanty means of subsistence which this meagre employment afforded him. 
               At length nature could not endure the mental and bodily struggle any longer. Naturally of a weak constitution, Frank had in early youth shown symptoms of consumptive habits, but these had disappeared as he approached manhood. The late trials to which he had been subjected had again made these symptoms prominent, and after a few weeks he was compelled to resign his situation. 
               Without means to maintain himself in private lodgings, or to get the necessary medical attendance his case required, he was at his own request removed to the City Hospital. He had refused all the offers made by his landlady to inform his friends of his sad condition, and there he lay, slowly fading away beneath the influence of the most insidious and deceitful of all diseases, unknown, and, except during the periodical visits of the nurses and the doctors of the Hospital, unattended and uncared for. 
               Slowly, but surely, day by day, the lamp of life wasted away, until scarcely a glimmer was left. 
               Then the feeling came over him that he would not like to have his memory regarded with dishonor after death. This feeling is perhaps a weakness, a human infirmity-but it is one that clings to us all, and clings only the more firmly to those who have least to fear from dishonor or disgrace. 
               He had not written one line to Mr. -- since he had quitted his employ; he had not seen him, or even his daughter, since the day she had turned her head contemptuously from him when he had met her riding in the carriage in Wall-street. While he lived he hoped that, without his interference, something would turn up that would triumphantly clear his character from the suspicion that rested upon it in the minds of the old merchant and his family-something which he pleased himself in imagining would overwhelm them with grief when they thought of the injustice with which they had treated him. But now death was at hand; he knew it, he already felt his icy grasp, and his soul yearned for the presence of some friend upon whom his last glances on earth might rest, and who might close his eyes and perform the last sad offices of the chamber of death; but this comfort he would not seek. In his painless moments, however, he sought to amuse himself by writing a brief history of all that he knew relative to the strange matters which had led to all his distresses, and though he knew but little, he wrote enough, and wrote it with such an air of truth, too, that those who read it were convinced of the veracity of the writer, to prove that he was guiltless of any attempt to deceive or to wrong in anything his employer or his family, above all his daughter. He had no reserve at this awful moment, and his words were words of fire; they searched and penetrated into the soul of those who perused them. He confessed his ardent love for Emma, whom he knew he should never again behold upon earth, and with the sincerest wishes for temporal and heavenly blessings on the heads of those he had loved, who had wronged him grievously, and who had been freely forgiven, he closed his sad story with the request that the manuscript should only be delivered when he was no more. 
               He had scarcely finished writing the superscription, when the nurse entered and found him dead-the ink still wet upon his letter. 
               It was dispatched to the post-office, and reached Mr. -- the very morning after he had rescued his child from her second attempted abduction by the villain Russell. 
               He read the simple narrative with interest; with the greater interest, because he had long discovered that he had been harsh towards his clerk, and that his suspicions were unfounded, although he had been too proud himself to acknowledge the fact to any one or to seek to offer redress. 
               He did so now, however, when redress was too late. In his daughter's situation he dared not tell her-she was confined to her bed with fever, brought on by the mental pangs she had suffered in discovering at last the deceit of him she had so fondly trusted. But the old merchant told his wife, and the aged pair wept over the sad fate of one so young, and, as they now believed, so worthy of respect and love. 
               A plot of ground was purchased in Greenwood by Mr. --, and there the remains of poor Frank Morton were conveyed, followed by Mr. -- and other former friends, whom the merchant had invited. 
               A simple stone is raised over his grave stating only his name and age; but not the name, be it recollected, that we have given him in this narrative. 
               And thus died Frank Morton, at the early age of 25-a proof of the incorrectness of the axiom we have mentioned in the commencement of this chapter, that virtue always meets its reward and vice its punishment on earth. 
               The latter portion of Frank Morton's brief life had been passed in penury and neglect, superinduced by no fault of his own. Unwept and unlamented, he had closed his eyes in an institution of public charity; but the senseless clay was honored after death, when earthly honors and human respect availed nought; and the freed spirit, we may imagine, looked down with scorn and contempt from the regions of space, upon the pomps and vanities which attach themselves to poor humanity. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               It will be recollected, that in an early chapter of this narrative, we alluded to a mysterious crime committed by Russell in the Island of Fernando Po, during his temporary sojourn there, in the course of one of his piratical slaving expeditions, which, by some strange means, had come to the knowledge of Inez, and which was charged upon him by her during one of his early visits to her lodgings in New-York. It was an occurrence which has nothing to do with our story, further than to furnish additional evidence of the innate wickedness of the villain who has figured in this history under the disguised names of Don Felix and Russell; and we don't know that we should have alluded to the circumstance again, had it not been that we wish our readers to recollect, that we have introduced no characters into this narrative, nor alluded to any single circumstance, which is not based on truth; although, as we have more than once said, the true names and position of the parties are, for obvious reasons, not mentioned. 
               The incident we are about to relate had occurred a few months after Russell had left Inez, as he supposed, to the tender mercy of the negro nurse, on the Brazilian coast. He had proceeded to the coast of Africa, direct from the Brazils, with the intention of procuring a cargo of slaves for the Pemambuco market. When near the island of Fernando Po, he had fallen in with a Bristol merchant vessel, which was bound to Sierra Leone; and as he lost no opportunity of committing piracy, although he professed to be merely a slaver, he had boarded and robbed this vessel, and subsequently scuttled her crew and passengers, with the exception of two young girls, the daughters of a Sierra Leone merchant, who were accompanying their father to Sierra Leone from England, whither they had been sent for the purpose of finishing their education. 
               When entirely under the control of his passions, Russell was, as we have shown, a very demon in human shape. 
               One of these girls was remarkably beautiful, the other was much plainer, and on receiving them on board his vessel, the villain had consigned one to his then lieutenant, a brutal Spanish mulatto; for this scene of cruelty had occurred prior to his engagement with Senor Enrico. They had found, on nearing the coast of Bonny, that two British oruisers were at anchor off the coast, and they immediately ran the Bonita back to Clarence Bay, in the island of Fernando Po, then but rarely visited by vessels of any description. 
               The two poor girls had been rendered almost maniacal by grief, resulting from the loss of their father by so cruel a death, and by their own horrible situation; and the brutal Sancho (the name of the lieutenant) had soon got wearied of his rude endeavors to persuade the girl given up to him to consent to his villanous desires. One night, shortly after the Bonita had cast anchor in the bay, she had disappeared, no one knew how, or no one, at any rate, cared to say, for all on board feared and hated the wretch who was second in command of the vessel. Russell himself, of course, was likewise aware that the girl had been made away with, probably thrown overboard from the stern cabin windows; but even he dared make no inquiries respecting her fate, although the brutal creole openly paraded upon his shirt-bosom a valuable brooch, which the unfortunate young lady had been noticed to have worn when brought away from the sinking merchantman. 
               Before this deed of darkness had been done, the two girls had had some solace in each other's society, at certain hours during the day, when their captors permitted them to be together. The anguish of the remaining female was redoubled when she found that her sister was denied further communication with her; and although she was not aware of the horrible truth, she formed dreadful surmises, and was for several days in a state of delirium. By degrees she became calmer, and being a girl of spirit and determination, while she resolutely refused the advances of Russell, she cast about in her own mind for means to effect her escape from the cursed vessel, even though she perished in the attempt. At this time there was an agent, from the colonial government, at Sierra Leone, on the island, stationed there for the purpose of procuring produce from the natives of the interior, in order to load the vessels which periodically visited the island from the British settlement; and his white cottage was visible from the vessel, amidst a dark grove of cocoa-nut trees, about a mile from the landing. She knew not who resided in that cottage, which yet appeared to her a haven of refuge, could she but reach it; and one night, when all was still, she determined to make the attempt to swim to the shore, fearless of the sharks with which the waters of the bay abounded, or fearing them less than the demons in human shape, in whose power she found herself. She might, for aught she knew, find there, in this hoped-for haven, persecution and cruelty as relentless as that from which she sought to release herself; but a worse fate she felt could not await her. 
               She dared then the dangers of the mirror-like waters of the bay, and, having learnt to swim with considerable buoyancy, she had nearly reached the shore when an alarm was given by the anchor-watch, that a white object, apparently a human being, and a female, was swimming towards the shore. 
               Russell, who was sleeping upon a sofa in the cabin, was up in an instant, and his first impulse was to seek the unhappy girl. He found it vacated. He immediately ordered a boat to be lowered and manned, and taking his pistols with him, set out in pursuit of the runaway. She, however, had gained the shore, before the boat had reached her, and was making her way through the bush, heedless of the prickly shrubs which tore her clothing, and lacerated her flesh. She felt not the pain; for her whole soul was set in effecting her escape from the dreadful vessel. Russell, who, under ordinary circumstances, might perhaps have shrunk from the cruelty he now displayed, was goaded into madness, as there seemed to be a prospect of the girl reaching the house of the agent, where he knew she would be safe. He called upon her with the bitterest oaths to stop; but she heeded him not, but still pushed onwards, torn, bleeding, and exhausted; yet still withheld from actually giving up, by the strong impulse within her, which urged her on, as though the race were, as indeed it was, a race of life or death. She had neared the cottage, and shrieked for aid; and the dogs of the agent had commenced barking, having been aroused by the shriek from their lazy slumbers. Russell was close behind her; but the people of the house were awakened, and in another moment she would have been in safety, when the fiend Russell, maddened with fury, drew one of his pistols, leveled at the retreating form of the fair girl, and fired. With an unearthly scream she sprang into the air and fell to the ground-one convulsive struggle, and she lay a senseless corpse. Russell and his boat's-crew returned speedily to their boat, and hastened on board the vessel, and before day-light the Bonita had sailed out of the bay. 
               The agent and his servants rushed out of the house, on hearing the discharge of the pistol, and found the murdered body of the unfortunate female. It was evident to all that she had been the victim of violence, and the newspapers of the day recorded the mysterious murder, with many comments, near or wide from the true facts of the case; but no clue was obtained to the murderers, and in a few weeks the whole affair, like thousands of others of a similar description, was forgotten. 
               Among the boat's crew was a Brazilian negro, who had now made his first voyage in the pirate craft. This man, ignorant, uneducated, rude, and only half humanized, as he was, was horror-stricken at the deed of blood he had witnessed. He dared not remonstrate, nor even mention the circumstance to any of his shipmates, or his own life would have paid the forfeit; but he took the first opportunity, at the risk of his own life, of making his escape from the brig. He was more fortunate than the unhappy young lady, and he succeeded in reaching Sierra Leone. Fear restrained him from telling of the deed of horror he had been connected with; and he hurried from the coast as speedily as possible, having by chance obtained a berth on board a vessel bound to Liverpool, whence he sailed to the Brazils. He arrived there just at the moment that Donna Inez had made up her mind to go to New-York, and, by a strange coincidence, shipped on board the vessel in which she herself left the coast of South America. 
               On the passage, Inez had chanced to hear the name of the Bonita drop from his lips, and she had sought him out, in order to discover if he knew anything of the vessel. With considerable difficulty she gained his confidence, and by degrees learnt all the horrible details we have related. 
               She was horror-stricken, but Russell was already in her mind a demon, and after his usage to her, no tale of outrage surprised her. 
               Years afterwards, as we have already related, she whispered in his ear, in the city of New-York, sufficient to assure him that she was cognizant of the facts of this fiendish crime, which he had thought secure within his own breast, and with those who were bound by oath and participation not to reveal it; for the poor negro, the better to secure his escape, and to prevent search being made for him, had left his clothing on the beach, whence he had escaped, in order to induce a belief that he was drowned by accident, while bathing, which was really credited on board the brig. 
               No one of Russell's many crimes inspired him with such feelings of remorse as this. Alone, in the dead of the night, he often sprang from his sleep, with the death-shriek of his unhappy victim ringing in his ears, and therefore it was no wonder he turned pale, when the deed was whispered to him by one who appeared to have become acquainted with his crime by supernatural means, at a distance of thousands of miles from the spot where it had been committed. This was one of the circumstances which had given Inez the strange power over him that we have seen she possessed, and which probably saved her more than once from his vengeance, in consequence of the superstitious fear with which he ever afterwards in some degree regarded her. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               We left Donna Inez at Havana, whither she had temporarily retired, after having disposed of her late father's property. 
               A great change had come over our heroine, for so we suppose we must term her. Her natural disposition, as the reader has seen, was amiable, until her feelings had become rankled by misfortune and shame; but the recovery of her child had re-kindled again in her breast the sacred lamp of virtue, which all her shame and suffering had not been able wholly to extinguish. She purchased some property in the neighborhood of Havana, and having made arrangements for furnishing the mansion, and setting the grounds in order, she set sail with her son for New-York, being anxious to learn how Isabella, from whom she had heard nothing, had succeeded in her adventure, and also to ascertain whether she had discovered Isadora. When within one day's sail of the port of New-York, the vessel she was on board of was hailed by a schooner bound south, and the captain was asked if he could find room for a passenger, who had been picked up in the bay of New-York, and who had no desire to proceed, in his present condition, on a long voyage to New-Orleans. The captain acceded to the request, and a boat was put off from the schooner, with a youth sitting in the stern sheets. As she approached the vessel, the curiosity of the passengers was excited, and they crowded to the bulwarks, to see what their strange visitant was like. Among the rest of the eager gazers was Inez, who could scarcely believe her senses, when, in the passenger so strangely introduced on board the vessel, she saw her old companion, and servant Isadora, or, as she was called, Annette. To the astonishment of all on board, a slight scene ensued, and the lady and the seeming youth were for the moment locked in a warm embrace, while disconnected sentences were uttered by each, unintelligible to the rest of the passengers, and indeed almost so to themselves. They retired to the cabin, where, their composure having been in some degree restored, Isadora recounted to Inez the strange adventures which had befallen her since the abstraction of the latter by Russell from Hoboken, until the late attempt to murder herself, by throwing her from the sloop into the North River. 
               It was thus she had been almost miraculously preserved from death. When she had been dragged on board the sloop by Russell, it was late in the evening and almost perfectly dark. The blow which Russell had struck upon the temple of the poor girl had been almost wholly parried by his arm coming in contact with a rope; and though the blow and shock had partially stunned her, she did not lose her senses, but immediately struck out for the shore; finding the tide too strong, and fearful of wasting her own strength, she then allowed herself to be borne down the river, just using sufficient motion to keep her head above the surface. In this way she was carried on by the tide for perhaps nearly an hour-hours it seemed to her-but she knew that in her position she could form no notion of the flight of time-every minute was an hour. At length she felt that her limbs were becoming cramped, and her strength was giving way, and she had almost made up her mind to resign herself without further struggle to her fate, when she observed a schooner under sail at no great distance from her. She shouted, feebly it is true, but the night was still and calm, and the faint voice was echoed by the water, and heard on board the schooner. The vessel was hove to, and the boat put out to endeavor to find the drowning lad, for such they took her to be by her voice. Fortunately, amid the darkness, she was discovered, picked up, and provided with dry clothing by the crew of the schooner, who, this city, an hour shall not have passed believing her, from her attire, to be a boy, furnished her with some of their own clothing, which fitted her slender form oddly enough. For reasons of her own, she had not informed the crew of the schooner of the true cause of the accident; besides, it would have led to discredit, and, at any rate, would have answered no good purpose then. She had merely said, she had been knocked overboard from a sloop on the North River, leaving the sailors to infer that it was by accident. 
               It was arranged that the same secrecy should be observed on board the ship, which had been maintained on board the schooner, and the same story was therefore told; indeed, it had been already told by the captain of the latter vessel. 
               On the following night the ship arrived at New-York, and Inez immediately took private lodgings, in order that she should not be recognized by Russell at any of the hotels, taking Isadora, again transformed into her waiting-maid, with her. 
               Isabella was apprised of the arrival of Inez, and she of course immediately visited her, happy to see her again, and still happier to see Isadora, whom she believed to have been carried off by Russell, and to be in his power, although she was of course ignorant and unsuspicious of the violence that had been offered her. 
               From Isabella, Inez learned little more than had already been told her by Isadora, with the exception of the single piece of intelligence which the indefatigable young woman had been able to discover by her having, early on the morning succeeding the mock marriage ceremony, traveled up the river and learned at what points a sloop had touched during the night-that Russell had landed at Hudson, and was at that moment living incog. in the town, still under his assumed name of Peters-anxiously waiting to learn if any proceedings had been taken out against him-and, reckless and daring as he was, ready at the first opportunity again to visit New York, and by force or stratagem to secure possession of Emma. He was by this time urged by his passions almost to desperation; that which at first he had taken in hand almost as a mere whim, had now, by his repeated disappointments, become an all-engrossing object; and we believe that, at this particular period, could he only have been sure of success, he would have been glad to purchase that success with the forfeit of his life on the day following. 
               Isabella was deputed to find out his address, which she speedily did; and then Inez, without designating her abode, sent him the following letter:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "NEW-YORK, --,
                            
                           "DON FELIX.-Your reckless course of life has placed you beyond the pale of human sympathy, and I know that I am wrong, almost as guilty as yourself, in not giving such information to the authorities as would lead to your arrest and condemnation; and thus ridding society of a monster; but this, for reasons I shall not here specify-reasons that you cannot conceive-I shall not do, unless urged to such a course by outrage on your part, which I hope, by this time, the frequency of your disappointments and the frustration of your arrangements, will have convinced you will be useless. 
                           "You need not seek to find me out, in this city, for I will not see you, and solemnly declare if you should, against my desire, force yourself into my presence, the next hour shall witness you consigned to the Tombs, unwilling as I am to push matters to such an extremity. Give up all idea of further carrying out your atrocious villany, and you may go where you list. I, at least, shall no longer seek to pry into your affairs. I desire to forget you. Quit this city, and by me you shall be forgotten; and more, should you be in want of pecuniary aid to do so, direct a letter to that effect to "I," Post restante, and when I am assured you are gone, money shall be forwarded to any place you may choose to appoint beyond the limits of these United States; but mark this-if, after having done as I now desire, you should again venture into over your head before the officers of justice are upon your scent. Think not I am boasting of more than I can perform, Seor. You, who know me so well know that I never promise or threaten that which I cannot or dare not perform. You know not where I am; you cannot, as I believe, discover me should you be mad enough to seek me out; nevertheless, I have my eye upon your movements; I know those now present-I will tell you of deeds which are past. Where, Seor, is the servant lad Pedro, whom you threw overboard from the sloop in the North River, after having dealt him, in your insane fury, a deadly blow? Where, I ask, is he now? Caitiff, I see you tremble; your cheek turns pale; you totter in your steps, and sink beneath the weight of your guilt and fear. The spirits of the dead, sent by violence from your hand into the presence of their Maker, appear before you, and the cold sweat on your brow gathers like rain. The page Pedro-the murdered victim of your passions, whose bones rest in the Island of Fernando Po-the poor youth whose death in this city lies at your door-aye, and the hundreds of victims who, in the course of your devilish trade have been cast sick, yet still living, into the merciless waters of the ocean-all these appear in living, earthly judgment against you. If you feel this now, what will you feel hereafter when you meet them at the bar of Heaven, unless your course of life be changed? 
                           "Confess your guilt to the hapless Emma --, whose peace of mind you have ruined, perhaps for ever, then fly this city, and in other lands seek to lead a different life, and there may be hope and mercy for you. 
                           "Ponder well over this letter and make up your mind quickly. 
                           
                              "INEZ DE HIBERA."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Our readers will perceive that Inez knew well how to work upon the imagination of Russell, whom she knew to be superstitious to a remarkable degree-and here we may be permitted to say that those who deny the existence of a God and a future state, or at least who pretend to do so, are, generally speaking, prone to superstition to a far greater degree than others; thus, by this very feeling belying their words. 
               It was as she had portrayed in the letter; Russell read it in amazement. 
               "Inez again here!" he said. "Is she ever to cross my path thus, and am I to use no means to rid myself of her?" 
               And then as he read on, and learned that Inez was cognizant of his actions, even on that dark night when, in the middle of the river, he had, as he believed, committed murder; that she should have been cognizant of this, when his victim was, as he likewise believed, one whom she did not know-had never known-all this was too much for him; and the spirits of his murdered victims did in imagination appear before him, and taunt him with horrid menaces, and the sweat did stand in cold marble drops upon his brow, until he sunk to the floor in a paroxysm of horror. And thus he lay, how long he knew not; but when he awoke to consciousness, the light of morning was penetrating through the windows of his room, though the shades of evening had hardly fallen when he read the letter, which was now crumpled up in his hands, the nails of which, in his paroxysms, had sunk into his flesh. 
               He tried to persuade himself that he had been dreaming; but no-there was the damning letter to prove that such was not the case, and the wretched man threw himself on his bed and sank for a few hours into an uneasy slumber. 
               He awoke in some degree restored, and tried to shake off his superstitious fears, and partially succeeded in so doing, and having carefully dressed himself, he sought his usual morning ramble through the streets of the town. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               It will be recollected that, in a former chapter, we stated that after the mock marriage ceremony had taken place at Russell's lodgings, Emma --, the victim of the cruel conspiracy, was rescued from the sad fate that in all probability would otherwise have awaited her; and it has also been made sufficiently apparent that Isabella and Isadora had furnished the information which had led to this rescue in the very nick of time. 
               It was only at the very last moment that Isadora, in her capacity of valet to Russell, discovered the scheme he had on hand, and we have stated that she immediately concerted with Isabella a counter scheme, by which, if it was found impossible to prevent the mock-marriage ceremony, at least the evils which would follow might be frustrated. 
               Isabella had therefore called in person upon Mr. --, and informed him of the step his daughter was about to take. He at first treated her statement with contempt, for he recognized in her the young female who had brought the manuscript some weeks before, and he thought her object was to obtain money from him. The earnestness of her manner, however, at length alarmed him; and, still doubting, he requested her to accompany him home, although it yet wanted some hours of his customary time of leaving business. Isabella readily consented, as she expected to meet Isadora at Westchester, who had promised to bring her all the information she could gather respecting the intentions of Russell towards his victim. By the time the carriage had drawn up opposite the country mansion of the old merchant, he had become perfectly satisfied, by the earnestness and undoubted sincerity of his fair companion, that her statements were correct, at least in some degree, although that they were so to the fullest extent he could not even yet bring himself to believe. 
               As Isabella stepped from the carriage, she was met by Isadora, dressed in male attire, who informed her that there was no time to lose, that even now, probably, the mock ceremony had commenced, and that she had learned that a sloop was in readiness to convey the party to some place distant from New-York, so soon as the evil deed should have been consummated. 
               The old merchant could scarcely believe his senses; he however descended from the carriage and sought his daughter. She was not to be found in the house. He then became seriously alarmed, and, though still fearful of duplicity, he immediately placed himself under the dictation of Isabella, only taking the precaution to call at the police station and obtain the services of three members of the force. By dint of hard driving, they just arrived in time to snatch the poor girl from impending destruction. 
               Isabella, so soon as she saw that all was safe as regarded Emma, (for as yet she did not know of the abduction of Isadora,) had slipped away from the party, and Mr. -- took his daughter home alone, and in a state of insensibility, caused by the excitement of the scenes she had passed through. Neither Isabella nor Isadora had told him the name of the villain who had thus endeavored to seduce and betray his child, and all was left to surmise on his part. Strange to say, he did not suspect Russell; indeed, his name had almost slipped from his memory, and yet this was not strange when we consider that Mr. -- was ignorant of many secrets with which our readers are acquainted. 
               Emma, on reaching home became delirious, and in her delirium, the name of Peters was uttered by her as well as that of Russell, and then only was the name brought to the recollection of the merchant; as to that of Peters, he was quite ignorant to whom it appertained, until, upon inquiry, he learned that it was the name of an assistant of Dr. --'s, who had frequently been noticed to have paid much attention of late to Miss --, and to have been walking with her in the neighborhood of her father's house in Westchester. This Peters, therefore, got the whole blame of the matter, and when Mr. -- called upon Dr. -- to make inquiry about his assistant, he learned that the latter had absconded on the very day on which the reported mock marriage had occurred. There was, therefore, no further room for uncertainty; it was self-evident that Peters was the villain, and that Russell had nothing to do with the business. 
               Some of the reporters of the morning papers got scent of the affair, for they will be poking their noses everywhere, whether wanted or not, and the following paragraph appeared in one or two of the daily journals:- 
               "SINGULAR ROMANCE IN HIGH LIFE.-Upper Tendom in a great state of excitement.-On Wednesday last, the lovely and accomplished Miss --, of -- avenue, eloped with a young man whose name we do not consider ourselves at liberty to mention; and, it is said, was secretly married by one of the aldermen of the city, at the private residence of the gallant bridegroom. Papa, however, by some means got wind of the affair, and, getting a posse of M. P.'s to go with him to the house, the happy couple were arrested just as they were about to start upon a wedding-tour, thus putting to flight all the anticipated delights of the honey-moon. We learn that the young gallant, who is well known as a gay professor of the healing art, was let off on condition of maintaining silence respecting the matter in future; and that the young lady was carried home by the irate papa, well scolded by mama, and put on a low diet of bread and butter, and solitary confinement, until she shows some symptoms of repentance. There are some rich scenes connected with this affair, which we may disclose in future." 
               The singular disclosures were not, however, made simply because the impudent dunderheads who had concocted the paragraph knew nothing to disclose, and their real ignorance of the state of affairs can be seen by the paragraph itself. But they were not to blame; their situation, day by day, depended upon their getting up something rich for the columns of the Daily Morning Sewer and Corruption Advertiser, and they were bound to do so, without considering the falsehoods they might circulate, or the sacred and domestic feelings they might outrage. 
               Emma remained for a long time confined to her bed, and silent upon the matter which had plunged the family into this grief. It was only by the kindest attentions on the part of her friends, aided by the skill of her physician, that her life was preserved; and the physician had strictly forbidden any allusion to be made to the unfortunate business, in the invalid's presence, unless she herself was the first to mention the subject. 
               All Mr. --'s private endeavors to seek out Isabella were equally futile, and thus the matter, so far as the parents of Emma were concerned, was still wrapped in impenetrable mystery. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               Donna Inez received no reply to the letter she had written to Russell, and shortly afterwards she ascertained that he had quitted Hudson, and sailed for New-Orleans, in a packet-ship from New-York. 
               Inez had no pressing reasons for immediately leaving the city; indeed, she had a curiosity to see Miss Emma, whom she had been so instrumental in serving, and whom, our readers will recollect, she had only seen for a few moments, in the obscure twilight, on the occasion of the Hoboken abduction; and her present wealth giving her, as wealth always does, a position in society, she had an intense desire to be introduced to the family of Mr. --. 
               She accordingly engaged a house on Brooklyn Heights, and having furnished it with elegance, without any gorgeous display, thither she retired, having for her companions the Senoras Isabella and Isadora. 
               The three ladies led a very retired life; but it soon became evident to their neighbors, that the mistress of the mansion was possessed of wealth, and to all the young men of the city, that the three ladies who resided in -- house were remarkably handsome. Of course, curiosity was at work to discover who they were, but, for once curiosity, with all its penetration, was at fault. 
               Busybodies went round to each other's houses, to endeavor to discover some clue from which a tissue of scandal might be woven, but in vain; the three ladies neither received company nor visited; and all they could learn was, that they were Spaniards. 
               Now, we must say, this was a very hard case. We hold it decidedly improper for any persons to engross their time entirely, in attending to their own business, when there are so many people in the world who have nothing else to do, apparently, than to pry into the affairs of others. Folks who do so, and wrap themselves up in domestic mystery, are inflicting a wrong upon the whole community of gossipers, and they must not be surprised if, when their case is regularly brought up for discussion before the bar of scandal, they suffer considerably for the want of counsel to defend them. The good gossips of Brooklyn found the present case a peculiarly hard one. How to find out who the mysterious strangers were, they knew not. Their confidential servants were then called into requisition, and requested to scrape acquaintance with the Abigails of the stranger ladies; but although this was duly effected, their worthy mistresses were as badly off as ever. The servants knew no more than total strangers who and what were the strange ladies who had thus taken up their abode. 
               "Do you think the servants wages are regularly paid?" asked Miss. Pinchbeck, of her maid, as the latter was fixing and arranging her mistress's false front. 
               "Oh yes, please marm," said the girl interrogated. "They says they are paid very reglar, and gets good wages too, marm. Please marm would it be convenient for you to advance me a few dollars on my last month's wages, which was due this day fortnight?" 
               Foiled completely in this attempt to discover any thing relative to the domestic economy of the strange ladies, and finding that she was likely to get the worst of the bargain, Miss Pinchbeck-a young lady of forty-five, whose spare dollars, which were very few, were entirely consumed in the purchase of the cosmetics which she daily used for the purpose of warding off the wrinkles, and crow's-feet, and gray hairs, which admonished nished her, despite of herself, that she really was past the first flush of girlhood-Miss Pinchbeck, we say, made some trifling excuse to the Abigail, and then turned the conversation, by asking her if she knew with what tradesmen the strange family dealt, and whether they run up heavy bills with the store-keepers. 
               "I really don't know, marm," replied the maid; "but yesterday, when I called at Mr. Bergamot's to get your rouge saucer re-placed, I saw Mary Jane, the maid of one of the ladies, getting a smelling-bottle filled for her mistress, and she took a package of perfumery away with her, which she paid for, cash down. Mr. Bergamot kept me awaiting in the store, till he served her, although I was there before she came in; and when he gave me the rouge, marm, he asked me if I would please to remind you, marm, of the little account he sent in last week. He would be obliged to you for a settlement on Saturday, as he has a heavy note to pay on Monday, marm." 
               "I will call and see Mr. Bergamot myself," replied the discomfited Miss Pinchbeck; "and mind, Laura Susannah, that I don't deal any longer with low tradesmen, who are so vulgar as to press a lady for payment of such a paltry amount; and you may hint to Mr. Bergamot, that I shall use my influence with the ladies of my acquaintance to follow my example. The impudence of these people demanding their money in this rude way, is preposterous. 
               "A little more rouge, Laura Susannah, on the left cheek; there, that will do, girl. Why, you have made me appear like a country girl; rub a little of it off-so. Now, bring me my row of upper teeth; and, Laura Susannah, I am going out; and if Miss Gilding should call, tell her I am gone out to dine with Mr. and Mrs. Bullion, the Wall-street broker, who returned from California last year, after his bank had failed. That will be something for her to vex herself about. But it really is very annoying about these strangers. One thing is certain-they can't be good for much. We shall hear of a fine smash some of these days-pride must have a fall-the stuck-up huzzies, who keep themselves to themselves, as if their neighbors were not good enough for them. There, that will do, Laura Susannah. You can go now. I will recollect what you said about your wages. I intend to raise them some of these days." The lady's maid left the room, muttering to herself "that she wished some folks, who thought some folks proud and stuck-up, were only half as good as other folks who paid their servants' wages regular, and kept themselves to themselves. She hated such sham ways, she did. Raise my wages, indeed!" she continued. "I should like to get hold of the wages, as is due me, and see how long I'd wait on folks as thought themselves ladies, but was all make up and sham, and not half so good as a poor servant girl." 
               Thus our heroine and her companions for several weeks pursued the even tenor of their way. Although by no means desirous of being forced into the coterie we have described, they were not averse to appearing in public at concerts, and other respectable places of public amusement, although it was often with melancholy feelings that Inez thought of the days gone by, when she had visited, under other circumstances, these places; and still her melancholy was mingled with feelings of gladness and gratitude, that she had been led out of the pit of deep mire into which so many in her position had floundered and sunk for ever. 
               The visit of these ladies, evidently foreigners, and their lady-like and gentle, though somewhat reserved manners, attracted a good deal of attention, and made many persons anxious to become acquainted with them, the more especially when it became evident, from their appearance of elegance, without the gawd and glitter of vulgarity, that they were not only persons of wealth, but had been used to good society. To the young men, as we have before observed, they were objects of special attraction, and many surmises were made as to their wealth, and the probabilities of a certain interesting course of proceeding towards them. Inez, who wore deep mourning, in consequence of her father's death, was set down by the knowing ones as a young widow; and the rich dark dress certainly set off her tall, slender, graceful figure to advantage; and, although Isabella and Isadora, certainly neither resembled each other nor Inez, and to tell the truth, were wanting in the perfect self-possession and inimitable grace, the je ne sais quoi, which at once proclaimed Inez the high-born lady, the two girls were set down by these wiseacres is her young sisters. 
               In fact, Inez, whether as the proud Donna, or the native Emilie of former days, was eminently fitted by nature to attract the homage of the opposite sex, and, shall we say it, the joint admiration and envy of the ladies, more especially of those unmarried and marriageable belles, whose charms sunk into nothingness when confronted with the full blaze of her dark, brilliant beauty and queenly carriage and deportment. 
               The ice of reserve, by degrees, was broken, or melted away beneath the kindly warmth of the small courtesies mutually exchanged; and the Spanish ladies, in time, found themselves fast approaching terms of intimacy with several of the ladies who visited the concert-rooms. They conversed freely together, the mutual interest being increased by the Spanish accent with which the strangers spoke the English language, and the broken Spanish with which some of the more ambitious among the American ladies occasionally addressed the strangers. These conversations prolonged, at length led to mutual invitations, and thus Inez and her companions, unsought on their own part, were placed on visiting terms with several of the wealthiest and most fashionable families of the city, and coterie at Brooklyn. The Mesdames Pinchbeck, Gilding, Tinsel, & Co., were struck with utter dismay, on seeing frequently the splendid carriages of the leaders of the fashion in the city stopping at the door of the strange ladies, who had been voted "no good," and whose disgrace had, to tell the truth, been earnestly and hopefully looked for. 
               One day, when Inez had received an invitation from a friend to witness, in company with her family, the opera of Lammermoor, at the Astor Place Opera House, Isabella and Isadora having remained at home, she was struck with the appearance of a young lady who sat in an opposite box. Her blonde beauty was in itself remarkable, but the admiration which her features and complexion were calculated to call forth, was rendered almost painful, by the evidence of abstraction from the scenes which were passing before her eyes, that was visible in her face. It was not the fashionable abstraction begot of apathy and indolence; but, plainly to be seen, a listlessness towards, and a disregard of, outer things, engendered by a deeply-seated mental agony which concentrated in her own breast, hidden from and untold to the world, caused her to sink within herself, in spite of her utmost endeavors to appear cheerful and happy. It was the mournful interest which this feeling of desolation gave to her youthful and beautiful features, which particularly attracted the notice and the sympathy of Inez, and she inquired of the lady who sat next her who the young lady was. 
               It was not without feelings of emotion, which she could scarcely control, that she listened to the reply to her question. 
               "Poor girl," replied the lady she had addressed, "that is the daughter of Mr. --, one of our wealthiest and most respectable merchants. A love affair, which turned out unfortunately, was almost the cause of her death. There is some mystery in the case which has never been made public, but poor Emma -- ever since has been subjected to fits of melancholy, which threaten to become chronic and eventually to lead to insanity. 
               "I am well acquainted with the family, and most amiable people they are; but of course delicacy forbids any allusion being made to the subject of the daughter's melancholy. She was a little girl at school when I was finishing my education, and a merrier, prettier little girl never lived than she. Her beauty, you perceive, she has retained: but, poor child! I fear her cheerfulness has fled for ever-her future darkened by the same withering blasts which have blighted the hopes of so many of our sex." 
               "I should like to be introduced to her," said Inez; "would it be asking too much to beg the favor of an introduction from you?" 
               "Oh, by no means; her father would be happy to increase the circle of her acquaintance, in the hope, vain I fear, of rousing her from the apathy into which you can perceive she has fallen." 
               "I should indeed be glad if you would do so. When shall I wait upon you for that purpose?" 
               "I will appoint any day you choose. She resides in Westchester. Shall I say to-morrow, or perhaps the next day. Call on me and we will drive out together." 
               The curtain dropped as the ladies concluded this conversation, and they left the Opera House. On the way home Inez lay back in her carriage absorbed in painful reflections; she thought-"and so I have at length arranged an interview with poor Emma! for what purpose I cannot myself explain, but I half believe in destiny, and this in part I believe goes to fulfil it." 
               The carriage drove past Walker-street, and she could see the house lighted up brilliantly in which she had spent so many wretched, so many thoughtless moments. Her feelings had been highly wrought up, and as thoughts, too deep, too sad for utterance, flitted thick and fast across her brain, she pressed her hand tightly against her burning forehead, and bowed her head in mental agony. At length her pent-up feelings found relief in tears; but she had scarcely been able to recover her usual composure when the carriage stopped at her residence on Brooklyn Heights. She sought her chamber, for her companions had already retired to rest; and in her dreams that night strange images flitted to and fro, as her mind wandered amid Fancy's realm. Sometimes these were images of horror and of terror, and then again of unutterable delight, and as she frequently awoke, with a start, she would press her boy to her bosom, and again resume those troubled slumbers and those fitful dreams. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               Russell had set sail for New-Orleans. Strange and indefinable notions seemed to control the movements of this singular man. He was not in want of money for his immediate necessities, but even if he had been, he would not have asked money of Inez. He might, nay would, had he seen an opportunity, have sought to acquire it by unlawful means, but never would he have begged for it or have accepted it as the cold gift of charity. He no doubt saw that his chances of succeeding in his schemes, whatever they were, for obtaining possession of Emma, would be for the present, at least, utterly futile; and, under all the circumstances, with a chance of denouncement, condemnation, and an ignominious punishment hanging over him, he thought the wiser course would be to absent himself from the locality of his late crimes. 
               He therefore sailed to New-Orleans as a passenger on board a packet ship, and on his arrival in that city he found that his small pecuniary resources were at a low ebb, and that it was imperatively necessary that his purse should be replenished by some means or other. An advertisement appeared in the Picayune for a surgeon on board a ship bound to the Gold Coast, and Russell immediately applied for and obtained it, and in a few days he was once more on blue water in the same capacity in which he had once heretofore made the blue waters of the ocean his home. 
               The vessel was bound on a trading voyage which was to be pursued along the entire Grain and Gold Coasts of the African continent, and she was provided with a number of trinkets and articles of small value, as well as with tobacco "in hands," as it is termed; that is to say, in small packages of half a pound or a pound weight each, of the dried manufactured leaf, which passes as money all along this coast, and which was to be exchanged for ivory, gold-dust, palm oil, and any other African product that might come to hand. 
               As it is sometimes necessary in this case to have a strong force to protect the traders from the attacks of the savage native coast tribes, she was also very fully manned; but a difficulty having been found in procuring hands, the owners had been compelled to ship a mixed crew of Spaniards, Creoles, Negroes, &c., and when they were assembled on deck to regulate the watches, after having got clear of the land, they presented the appearance of the most villanous congregation of cut-throats that the imagination can well conceive. 
               Much to Russell's astonishment, and, at first, not a little to his dismay, his quick eye discerned, amidst the motly group, three of the crew of his former vessel, the Bonita, who had been taken and tried with him before the admiralty court of St. Helena. His fears regarding them, however, were merely transitory; for he recollected that, although he could not fail of being recognized in his turn before many hours had passed, it was as much their interest as his own to refrain from any exposure that might lead either party into trouble; besides, he in a moment conceived an idea that would have suggested itself to none but a thorough villain, which he determined to put into practice, should he see any favorable prospect, after having sounded the disposition of his old comrades. Of course, he was recognized by these three men on the following day, and he was gratified to perceive that they seemed rather pleased than otherwise on finding him on board, and that very night he seized a favorable opportunity, by remaining up to keep the second watch, under the pretence of being unable to sleep, of entering into conversation with them. They had been among the most reckless and hardened of the crew of the Bonita, and Russell saw at once that a similar idea had entered their minds to that which his own had seized upon, despite the awkward attempts they had made to sound his feelings before they boldly expressed their own views. 
               The conversation was carried on in Spanish, and the purport of it was as follows:- 
               "Buena noche, Capitano," said the leader of the three-a tall, broad-shouldered, burly, reckless-looking Spanish Creole, "buena noche-it is strange that we should thus meet again after our long separation." 
               "Buena noche a Vsta todos, comarados," replied Russell, "it is a strange coincidence, "but old comrades are friends wherever or whenever they meet. Is it not so, hombres?" 
               "Si, Capitano, si," responded the man; "we are friends everywhere, but we would rather we had met in different circumstances; we had rather we had met on the free deck of a rover, with our noble captain at our head, than in this dull, tame merchantman." 
               "We may yet so meet, Carlos," said the man who had first approached and addressed Russell, "provided our noble captain has not turned puritan," glancing, as he spoke, a curious and inquiring eye at his old commander. 
               "No, seors," said Russell, thus addressed, "your old captain has not turned puritan, and circumstances may arrive when we shall meet as in former days, in a vessel of our own, free to levy contributions on all who cross our ocean path." 
               "And why not now, captain?" said the spokesman of the party. 
               "Now! what do you mean?" said Russell, willing to entangle them still further before he betrayed his own sentiments. 
               "We will tell you what we mean, seor capitano," replied the ruffian. "You will not and dare not betray us. We have more of our kidney on board; indeed, three-fourths of the large crew you saw to-day on our decks are, or at least have been, free-traders-aye, and free-booters to boot; and think you we intend to follow out the dull voyage we have in prospect? No. We have arranged, before we came on board, to seize the vessel when she got to a safe distance from the coast. I was to have taken command, but I am willing to share my chances with you; you shall hold the nominal command as our recognized captain, I and my two comrades here acting as your lieutenants, provided you are willing to join us. Otherwise, this conversation has but precipitated our plans; refuse, and you must not quit us alive, and the seizure of the vessel must be effected to-night. With one whistle I can call thirty armed and desperate men around me; so choose, and choose quickly, whether you are for or against us." 
               "Do you dare to threaten me," said Russell fiercely; and as his brow lowered and his eyes flashed with suppressed fury, the daring villain who had spoken turned pale and quailed beneath his frown. He saw at once that he still maintained his power over them, and he again spoke in a more friendly tone. 
               "You were but joking when you uttered the words which just now fell from your lips. But, brave comrades, since you will have it so, I am ready again to become your captain; but it is too soon yet to carry your scheme into execution. We are too near the coast-a week hence will be ample time, and meanwhile we can secretly perfect our plans." 
               "There are none who will be against us but five men and the negro cook and steward, together with the officers of the vessel, four in number, that makes eleven. We number thirty-four, so the odds are contemptible; the cook and steward we shall need for our own purposes, the others must walk the plank,
                     For the benefit of those of our readers who may be ignorant of the meaning of this term, we explain that it is a system of execution which has long prevailed in pirate vessels, and consists in the victim being compelled, at the point of the cutlass or pike, to walk a plank laid across the gangway, which is so laid as to over-balance with his weight, and precipitate him, utterly helpless, into the sea, when a shot attached to the feet of the wretched victim carries him down immediately.
                   for I have no hope of their joining us. The officers must be put out of the way in the first place; and now as to the plan. It has just struck me that you, seor, can manage the matter easily and without bloodshed, which," said the truculent villain, "should always be avoided, if possible; that is the reason that I have advocated the plank in preference to violence, whenever it has been necessary to 'expend' a few men in any vessel in which I have served. I have always protested against violence, except when it was absolutely necessary-blood, you know, leaves stains, and that is not pleasant," and the villain grinned a ghastly smile. 
               "What do you mean?" said Russell. 
               "I mean that you have charge of the medicine chest, and can give a secret dose to the officers of the ship, and so do the business quietly. I must, however, beg to take charge of the seamen, because I have a little grudge against them, and I intend to treat them to a walk across the plank for my own special entertainment." 
               "Don't mention such a plan to me again," said Russell, fiercely. "You know me, Antonio, and I here swear that with my life will I oppose the cowardly plan you suggest. Take the vessel, if you will; appoint me your captain, and you shall have no reason to complain of me; but I have not sunk so low as to be a poisoner. Let them have a chance of a fight for their lives, however hopeless it be; but poison I will not consent to use." 
               "Be it as you will, Capitano," said the villain, "but do not say that I did not desire to avoid bloodshed. But there strikes eight bells-the watch is about to be relieved. We will speak of this subject again, Capitano, and arrange matters. Meanwhile, buena noche, and pleasant dreams." And with these words the rude ruffians and the more polished villain separated, each retiring to their own part of the ship and to rest. 
               The morning dawned on a bright sky and a smooth sea. A gentle and favorable gale bore the gallant vessel rapidly on her course, and to the careless observer it would have seemed incredible that so dark a conspiracy was hatching; aye, was already matured on board that beautiful ship. All went on favorably; to outward appearance all was peace and content; but these appearances were as deceitful as the treacherous sea which bore the vessel on her way; when its glassy surface wore its fairest aspect, was it most to be dreaded; and when the heavens above were most serene, was the small dark cloud, which would extend itself until it overspread the sky, most likely to appear bearing destruction and death in its path, as the tornado swept furiously along. 
               The whole plan of attack was arranged to take place in one week from the conversation we have recorded. Russell had refused to take any part in the work of death, but he was immediately to assume the command, and the vessel was to proceed on its way to the African coast-its subsequent destination to be afterwards determined by common consent of the crew. The villain Antonio still adhered to his determination to reserve the five American seamen for a more lingering death, to avenge himself, as he said, for injuries he had sustained at the hands of their countrymen, on an occasion when he had been imprisoned for mutiny and attempted murder; and Russell, knowing it to be useless, did not contest the point. 
               The appointed evening arrived, and the second mate had just come on deck to relieve his brother officer, when he was knocked on the head by Antonio, and thrown overboard; the five seamen already spoken of had previously been secured with ropes and left guarded in the forecastle. After having thrown the second mate overboard, one of the wretches made a noise at the door of the cabin, to attract the attention of the other officers, who were sleeping there. 
               They rushed upon deck, and one by one met the fate of their comrade. By this time the captain had rushed on deck half clothed, and armed with his pistols. He fired, and the seaman Carlos fell dead at his feet; before he had time to discharge his second barrel, he had also been hurried into a watery grave. 
               The body of Carlos, the Spanish sea-man, was then examined, and he was found to be quite dead, and with scarcely a symptom of feeling he was sent to follow his victims at the bar of their Creator, to answer face to face, even so soon, for the deed of blood he had shared in. 
               Thus the vessel was in the hands of the pirates, and so the remainder of the night passed away. At day light, Russell assembled the crew, and formally assumed the command of the vessel, boldly assuring them that he would submit to no control, and admit of no divided authority, and that instant death should be the fruits of disobedience, looking, as he spoke, sternly at Antonio, who was made lieutenant. 
               He was just the character to control these daring, reckless men, and they agreed to his demands without a murmur of disapprobation. 
               Antonio alone demanded his right to the five seamen confined below, and to this demand, Russell, who, to do him justice, would willingly have spared them, acceded, for policy's sake, on the ground that this agreement had been made prior to his assuming the command; and the unfortunate men were brought up, one by one, and compelled to walk, handcuffed and shot-laden, over the side of the ship, into the yawning grave ready to receive them in its bottomless waste. This deed of hellish cruelty done, and Russell walked again the commander of a vessel by unlawful means obtained; now no longer the captain of a slaver, even in name, but an openly acknowledged pirate chief. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               At the appointed hour, Inez, accompanied by Mrs. --, the lady alluded to in a former chapter, made a morning call at the residence of Emma's parents, and the lady's name having been announced, she was immediately shown into the parlor, where Emma was sitting with her mother, engaged upon some embroidery work. 
               Then, for the first time, Inez had an opportunity of closely examining the features of the fair girl, whose fortunes had, so to speak, been so singularly mixed up with her own, at any rate so far as regarded one, and, perhaps, the chief episode of a woman's life. 
               The expression of disregard of passing events, and of deep mental anxiety, was still more apparent by day-light than it had been under the blaze and glare of gas-light at the Opera House; and though, when she was spoken to directly, she replied in a gentle tone of voice, and even endeavored to assume a tone of cheerfulness, it was evidently constrained, and struck the ear of the stranger painfully; for he or she could not but perceive, that the soft musical voice came from the lips of one, who bore about with her a mind diseased. The tones might be compared to the sweet cadence of the harp, when the strings are lightly swept, but where one broken chord, while it cannot conceal the music of the notes, destroys their harmony. 
               When not immediately addressed, she remained apparently absorbed in her own thoughts, mechanically moving her fingers in an occupation which was familiar to her, but in reality scarcely heeding the complex stitches she was passing and re-passing. 
               In this first interview, Inez could do no more than merely scan the features of her rival, as in one sense she may be termed, although there was in reality no rivalry on either side. 
               Still, with quick perception, Inez saw around the neck of Emma a green silk ribbon, of a peculiar pattern, which she recollected to have given Russell herself years before at Martinique, and which she had little doubt supported the miniature of the deceiver. It had once borne her portrait and a lock of her hair entwined with Russell's, but that she knew was not suspended to it now. 
               After a brief visit of half an hour, the two ladies quitted the house and, on their way home their conversation turned upon the young lady who had been the object of their visit. 
               They both agreed that if something could not be devised to arouse the poor young lady from this intense brooding over her misfortunes, whatever those misfortunes might be, melancholy insanity must eventually be the result; and that anything could be devised, they thought impossible, for everything had already been done that seemed to offer the faintest possibility of relief. 
               Before leaving the house, Mrs. --, the mother of Emma, had warmly pressed her newly introduced visitor to call upon her again, and Inez, strongly interested in Emma, had promised to do so at an early opportunity. 
               She did call, and at length became exceedingly intimate in the family; but never yet had she dared venture to speak to Emma of Russell, or even to ask her the cause of her mental distress. 
               The time drew near that Inez had fixed for her departure for Havana, and as the melancholy of Emma seemed rather to assume a more deeply seated appearance than to become in any way relieved, Inez one day proposed to her mother that she should go with her and the two ladies, who passed for her sisters, on a short visit to Cuba. The change of scene and of climate, and the sea-air might, it was suggested, work that amelioration in the health of the young lady, which Saratoga and Balston, and even Newport, with its salt-sea atmosphere, had been unable to effect. 
               The family physician was interrogated on the subject and gave his entire approbation. He thought it the last hope of effecting a cure, and even expressed a flattering opinion that it would cause a re-action in the nervous system of the young lady which would eventually be followed by happy results. 
               It was, therefore, arranged that Emma should visit Havana with her Spanish friends, and, if the change appeared beneficial, should make a lengthened visit. 
               All preliminaries having been arranged, in the course of a few weeks from the arrangements mentioned above, Inez, Isabella, Isadora and Emma, with Jose, sailed from this port on board a fine clipper-ship bound for Havana and New-Orleans, calling at Havana chiefly for the purpose of landing passengers. 
               In a fortnight the vessel arrived off the Island of Cuba, and a boat was sent ashore with the passengers into the harbor of Havana, the vessel not entering, for the purpose of avoiding the payment of port dues, as she had no cargo to discharge. 
               Inez found her residence, which was situated on a gentle eminence at a short distance from the city, perfectly prepared for her reception; the grounds of the mansion were large and beautifully laid out, and the situation was cool, as it was open to the sea breezes almost constantly blowing during the day. The ladies were delighted-even Emma could not repress an exclamation of delight as she gazed at the gorgeous tropical scenery around-so strange to her, who had now for the first time landed on a foreign shore. 
               She showed some evidence of her former sprightliness, as she wandered about the gardens and shrubbery day by day, making acquaintance with everything that was strange to her in a country where, in fact, all was strange. 
               Inez wrote consoling letters to the parents of Emma, and her assurances were corroborated by the letters they received from their daughter herself, which bore but faint evidence of her former despondency. 
               Thus passed away three or four months, when, one day, while Inez, Emma and Jose were walking in the streets of the city, a man passed them, gazed furtively into their faces, and then drawing his sombrero down over his eyes, walked rapidly on. Both ladies started and uttered an exclamation of mingled surprise and terror. 
               "Russell!" exclaimed Emma. 
               "Santa Maria! Don Felix," exclaimed Inez, and then each looked at the other in dismay. 
               Inez recollected herself in a moment and said: "That man who has just passed, reminded me of one I had known years ago when a child, whom I believe far from here. It cannot be he. I am of course mistaken, but the resemblance was strange." 
               "It is strange," replied Emma, vacantly, "but the figure struck me as being that of one whom I have reason to-that is one-a gentleman who was once intimate with my father in New-York. The coincidence is certainly strange that we should both fancy we knew him, but I hope-that is-I believe we-or at least I, was mistaken." 
               "No doubt we were both of us mistaken, my dear," replied Inez; "the features of the man were scarcely distinguishable under that broad-leafed hat he wore; but had we not best hurry home-wards as fast as possible. It is already late and we shall be but just in time for dinner." 
               "Just as you please; but you surely are not alarmed at the fancied meeting with this stranger." 
               "Oh no," said Inez, who was in reality more alarmed than was usual with her; but there are times when their customary coolness leaves the most courageous, as if there hovered about them some shadowy presentiment of evil which they cannot define, yet which inspires them with a dread almost amounting to horror. 
               Emma saw this, and it gave her an opportunity of assuming the protectorship. Had her friend treated the matter lightly, she might have thought more of it; now she was convinced that it was merely a passing resemblance, and she turned her attention to calming the evident nervousness of her companion. They hurried home, however; and by the time they arrived, even Inez, who had much more closely scrutinized the stranger, had begun to hope that she really had been deceived, and that the figure which had passed was not that of the arch villain to whom so many victims of his wiles owed all their wretchedness. 
               The evening was passed in the usual manner, in conversation, enlivened by music, and they were in the midst of a song, when one of the servants rushed into the room, exclaiming: 
               "Oh, Missus!-Massa Jose he gone! sailor man take him while he play in the grounds. Catch he up and run off-I shout; he no stop-when I reached de gate de young massa, he gone!" 
                
               "What!" shrieked Inez. "Jose, my boy, gone. Good God, it is he then. Fly! search the city-take any money and discover the villain." As she uttered these words, her voice rose to a scream, and at length choked her utterance, and the wretched, bereaved mother sunk senseless on the floor. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               We left Russell, in a former chapter, in command of the vessel in which he had sailed as surgeon from New-Orleans-an openly acknowledged pirate, no longer disguising it to himself, under his somewhat equivocal designation of slaver captain. 
               After having succeeded in capturing the vessel, and in murdering, or "expending," as it is termed in rover's parlance, such of the officers and crew of the vessel as would have been opposed to them, or whom they could not render subservient to their own ends, the vessel's head was turned to the southwest, and she sped her way towards Russell's old cruising ground on the African coast. She was a rapid sailer, and, as the winds were favorable, a few weeks brought her to her destination, which was the Guinea coast; the object of the pirates being, to cut off one or two of the small coasting schooners which navigate that coast, trafficking with the natives for gold-dust, ivory and other valuable articles of commerce. With the large palm-oil traders they did not care to meddle, as the capture of them was not sufficiently profitable, when there was more dainty game in view. 
               In this they were partially successful, as, within three weeks, they succeeded in overhauling and capturing two of these vessels, the crews of which they "expended," took possession of the cargoes, stores, sails, and ships'-gear, provisions, and all such articles as might prove useful or profitable to them, and then scuttled and sunk the schooners. 
               At the expiration of this period, having learned from a native chief, who was professedly in league with the British cruisers, but who served either party for pay, that the suspicions of the commodore of the station had been aroused in consequence of the non-arrival at their expected ports of two vessels successively, at the time that they were due, and that information had been dispatched to the admiral, at Sierra Leone, requesting his co-operation along the coast, with all the naval force that he could muster together, Russell determined to finish off by running into an inlet, and purchasing a cargo of slaves, which his informant told him could be procured immediately from a chief on the Dahomey coast-one of the agents of his sable majesty of Dahomey-and then at once setting sail for the Brazils and disposing of his living and dead cargo together, leaving the African waters free for the excursions of her Britannic Majesty's cruisers. 
               The slaves were procured, and in almost an incredibly short space of time, Russell found himself ready for sea, having made altogether a very profitable cruise. 
               He sailed for Brazil, but his vessel was scarcely hull-down from the shore, before a man-of-war hove in sight. The sable friend of the pirate chief, who had been so useful in furnishing the information respecting the whereabouts of the slave-dealing chief, as soon as the man-of-war brig became visible to him, thought he might have a chance to kill two birds with one stone; and since he had served Russell, it was but fair that, for a like reward, he should also strike a bargain with the queen's ship. He accordingly, as the brig neared the land, paddled off in his canoe, and, having boarded her, informed the commander that "one d-m slaver was jist in sight, and suppose massa cap'en make sail smart, he catch 'em." 
               The upper sails of the fast-retreating slaver, still gleamed on the verge of the horizon, and were visible from the topgallant-mast-head of the brig, and upon the asseveration of the negro, who was a trusty friend, as was supposed, of the anti-slavery society, whose name had frequently been mentioned in terms of eulogy, by the speakers at Exeter Hall, and who was consequently reverenced by the ladies who attended that theatre of mingled charity, humbug, hypocrisy, and fanaticism, as a brilliant and shining light amongst the benighted natives of Africa. 
               Upon the asseverations of this worthy Christian negro, that the vessel was really what he stated her to be, and that she had at that moment a cargo of four hundred slaves on board, the commander of the brig gave chase, and in the course of a few hours, gained upon the slaver or pirate, so far as to sight his topsails. 
               The wind was blowing a smart breeze, but the slaver, which Russell had christened the "Avenger," was gliding along under easy sail, in no apprehension of any pursuit or interruption, as the captain was under the impression, that more of the cruisers were yet near the spot where his latest outrages had been committed, and taking the opportunity afforded, of putting the ship to rights, and stowing the live cargo, which had been hurriedly taken on board, and for which the usual preparations had not been made, as as it had not been the intention of Russell to employ the vessel as a slaver. 
               The crew of the pirate, consequently, had not perceived the vessel in their wake, until she had very precipitately neared them, so much, indeed, that the hull of the Avenger was visible from the top-mast-head of the man-of-war. 
               Evening drew on, and still the arrangements on board the Avenger were only partially completed, although all hands that could be spared, even to the usual look-out men, had been busily engaged storing casks and hogsheads, tearing down and re-building bulkheads and stowing away in their wretched, cramped abode, the poor, miserable wretches they had on board. 
               At length, just as the sun was sinking beneath the horizon and the brief twilight of the tropics was already upon them, Russell sent his chief officer up aloft to see if the horizon was clear, and report if any sail was in sight. 
               The man had scarcely reached the main-top before he bawled out, "Sail ho." 
               "Where away?" responded Russell. 
               "Right astern; and coming down before the wind," replied the officer. 
               "What do you make her out to be!" 
               "I can scarcely tell, Seor Capitano, the sun has sunk beneath the dark red oud there away to the westward, and the shadow rests right upon the vessel. I just got a glimpse of hull down, and now I have lost sight of her again-there, I see her now. From the broad, white canvass, I should take her to be a man-of-war, Capitano." 
               "D--tion," mutterd Russell to himself, "If this cursed, lumbering craft had ouly the heels or the teeth of the Bonita, I would have no fears for her, she would run yonder craft out of sight, be she what she may, or if needs be, and she found herself pressed too closely, she would bite; but this infernal tub sails like a Dutch galliot, and then there are no guns on board but what a cruiser would laugh at. Never mind, I have been in as bad straits before, and got off scot free-though hardly with such a tub as this beneath me. Night, however, is coming on and by manuvring a little we may manage to elude her. Once get her off the track and she may whistle to get the scent again." 
               As night closed in, false lights were shown and every recognized and unrecognized means taken to escape the vigilance of the cruiser, but the captain of the man-of-war was awake to every subterfuge.-Showing no light on board the brig, he did not suffer himself to be deluded by the false lights shown as if from on board the brig, but in reality gleaming from casks which had been thrown overboard, having burning torches fastened to them. 
               Once or twice Russell braced up his yards and hauled off on a wind in the hope that his pursuer would keep on his course, and so run past him, but this manuvre was, he soon perceived, immediately detected, as well as his endeavors to mislead the brig, by false lights, and as he lost considerable ground upon each attempt he wisely refrained from any further movements of that description. 
                
               Meanwhile the brig slowly but surely gained on the heavier vessel, and this too with comparative ease, for while the man-of-war made no unusual efforts to gain upon the slaver beyond carrying a full press of sail and paying strict attention to the steerage, Russell kept his sails constantly wetted, and strained his spars to the utmost, so much so that sometimes it appeared impossible for them to bear the pressure, and in over haste to escape, it was to be feared that by the carrying away of some unlucky spar, the very catastrophe sought to be avoided would be accelerated. 
               So passed the night away-a night of anxiety to the crews of both vessels, though each were actuated by feelings widely different. As the first grey flush of early morning overspread the sky and each vessel became distinctly visible to the other by the naked eye, and from the vessels, decks, it was apparent, though the sailor's adage still held good, that "a stern chase is a long chase," that the pirate stood no chance of escape, and that although hours might yet elapse before the brig drew up within gun shot, yet such must eventually be the case-that unless some measures were taken to draw the attention of the man-of-war's crew, the pirate's "hour had come." 
               In this dil emma Russell held a consultation with his officers and crew, for although disscipline is in some sort observed on board these crafts, it is not the discipline that characterizes a ship of war, nor even that observable on board a well conducted merchant vessel. All are partners in crime and all claim a certain right of equality separate from that which is connected with the government of the vessel-that is to say, apart from the mere exercise of the duties of working the vessel, all, to use another nautical phrase, "are hail fellow well met." 
               The officers and crew, therefore, of the slaver held consultation together, and Russell thus addressed them: "You see, my brave fellows, that that cursed English brig is fast approaching us; and, as we have no means of defence, being deficient both in arms and men, we must come to some conclusion as to what course is left open to us. I, for my part, will not be taken prisoner. Death, in such a case, would be the certain fate of all of us; there are too many damning proofs against us to enable us to evade the law this time; besides, if I am not greatly mistaken, that cursed brig in chase is the Rapid, and it will not be the first time that the commander of her Majesty's brig Rapid and many amongst us have met. 
               "If we had the bonny Bonita beneath our feet we would show fight as we have showed fight under similar circumstances before; but, as I have shown, that is out of the question. If matters come to the last extremity I for one am for scuttling our own vessel and going down on board of her sooner than submit myself to the tender mercies of the law; but, as regards the adoption of that plan, unless you all are agreed, of course, I cannot insist upon it. Some among you may be willing to take your chance of life or death before a marine court of justice sooner than embrace certain death on board the "Avenger." If it be so I have nothing to say against it, but, in that case, I will meet my fate alone. Matters, however, have not, as yet, come to this. We have four hundred negroes on board, which, in the present restricted state of the market, would fetch a high price, were they landed on certain parts of the Brazil coast. To reach there with them is now out of the question. Shipmates, the question now is, "our lives or theirs," which shall be sacrificed? It is a question of property no longer, but one of life and death. These negroes must be brought up and flung overboard; not all at once, but a few at a time. The chance is that the brig may round to, to pick them up, and so afford us time to escape with the rest of our valuable cargo. We can try with some dozen or so, and if the ruse takes effect we can expend them slowly; and perhaps, save some hundred of the likeliest for the market. If the brig does not pick them up, we must throw them all overboard, together with all the cables and heavy weight we can spare, and so lighten the ship as much as possible and give her a fair chance of escape. To me there seems no other alternative. What say you, lads?" 
               There was a general assent among the hardened, brutalized crew to this develish proposition, and the wretched manacled negroes were dragged from out of the pestilential hold in which they were stowed, and twenty, without distinction of age or sex-the choice falling on the weakliest-were ruthlessly cast overboard; their handcuffs having been first taken off so that some of them at least might swim and be seen, and perhaps picked up by the man-of-war. 
               The commander of the Rapid, for it was indeed that vessel, as had been surmised by Russell, and his chief, was seated on the bowsprit of his vessel, holding on with one hand by the foretopmast stay, as he poised his telescope in the bight of a rope and steadied it with the other hand; close beside him were his second lieutenant and two midshipmen, all eagerly scanning the anticipated prize, and measuring the rapidly diminishing distance between them. 
               The commander himself was the first to have his attention drawn to the strange proceedings on board the chase. 
               "The fellows are heaving their ballast overboard," he said to his lieutenant. 
               "I fear it's living ballast the devils are consigning to the waves," replied the latter. "To me, the black objects have the appearance of life, and I should not be surprised if they are throwing the negroes overboard." 
               "Impossible," replied the captain; "I have heard of such atrocities, but I believe them fabulous, and yet--good God! its true enough. I plainly distinguish the human figures now-see, there goes a second batch struggling into the boiling foam; by heaven! this shall preclude them from even a form of trial-I'll swing the brutal murderers from the yard-arms of their own vessel. 
               "Can we leave the poor devils to drown," said the lieutenant, "while we are seeking to overhaul their murderers; look! there goes more of the unhappy wretches over the side; there must have been thirty at least, or forty, in that batch." 
               The captain made no reply, but peered earnestly through his glass, holding his breath and grinding his teeth together, with feelings of suppressed rage and indignation. In the course of ten minutes, they came up with the first batch of drowning wretches who had been thrown over the side; the weakly had long sunk beneath the waters of the ocean, but most negroes swim well, and those who were less enfeebled battled lustily with the rough billows. 
               Conflicting emotions occupied the mind of the gallant Captain. In his excitement, he would have pursued the murderers and secured them at all hazards. Justice demanded that such should be the course he should take; but humanity bade him let the prize so nearly gained elude his grasp, while he busied himself in rescuing the unfortunates from the watery grave fast closing over them. 
               Already the water around him was dotted with human beings struggling in the embrace of death. He cast his eyes over the side of the vessel, and saw the imploring eyes of the sinking women and children turned towards the stranger ship as their last hope, and his decision was made. He gave the command to "heave to," and lower the boats, and the gallant seamen, so lately full of excitement and eager for the close of the affray, now set to work with like good will to obey the dictates of humanity. 
               Out of thirty or forty who had been thrown overboard by the pirates, eight or ten were picked up; and while this scene was going on on board the brig, the pirate vessel had gained considerable headway. 
               "These black fellows have done us some service, boys; another gain like that of the last hour, and the cursed brig may whistle after us. Her Majesty's officers seem to like the black bait; so stand by and give them some more of it. We have a little time to spare, Antonio, so pick out the best of the lot to the number of a hundred, and stand them on one side. We may, perhaps, be able to bring them to market yet, and when I give the word, send thirty or forty more of the poor d--ls over the side for the amusement of the man-of-war's men; they appear to be fond of catching black fish, and we'll not baulk them of their pleasure." 
               With this brutal jest on his mouth, the hardened wretch gave the order, and amidst the yells of the assembled negroes-who now for the first time seemed to awaken from their stolid imbecility, and to become aware of the horrors of their situation-thirty more victims were plunged over the side of the "Avenger." 
               The "Rapid" was now some miles distant, and before she had reached the scene of the wholesale murder, most of the poor wretches had sunk, for although they were good swimmers, they were enfeebled with the confinement they had been subjected to before they had been placed on board Russell's vessel, besides which the water was very rough and the sea was rising with the freshening of the breeze. 
               The captain and officers of the Rapid saw through the ruse that the pirates were practising, and they became aware that to pursue their course any further was only to add to the list of the murdered victims, without giving a hope of overhauling the ship, unless they left the victims to their fate, which humanity forbid them to do, and after a brief consultation they came to the determination to abandon the chase. The yards were braced sharp up, the studding sails, royal and top gallant sails taken in or furled, and with a single reef in her top sails, the Rapid commenced to work back her passage to Sierra Leone. 
               Russell once more escaped, and with nearly two hundred of his negroes, made a private market on the northern coast of Brazil, where he likewise disposed of the valuable cargo he had on board for a large sum of money, which was divided according to buccaneer's rules, in certain proportions among the crew, and the Avenger, disguised with false papers, as a merchantman, sailed for Havana, Russell having a wish to meet with Don Jose and certain other members of the secret compact who have been alluded to in the earlier part of our narrative. It was he that the senoras Inez and Emma had met in the streets of Havana, and it was he that had abducted the child of Inez, or we may likewise say, his own son. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               Upon reaching Havana, Don Felix paid a visit to his patron Don Jose, who was one of the principal merchants in that great commercial city. Don Jose had wealth and honors in abundance, but he had no children to whom to bequeath his wealth when he should be no more. So strong had become his desire to possess an heir that he at length came to the determination to adopt a stranger, and the usual compliments having passed between him and Russell, he shortly took the opportunity to let the latter into the secret of the great trouble which weighed upon his spirits, and hinted that the delivery into his possession of a boy of the appearance calculated to do credit to the wealth which he would inherit, fetched from a distance, so that the story that he was a relative of the old merchant might be successfully imposed upon the neighbors and friends of the millionaire, and one also of Spanish descent, and who spoke the Spanish language and was yet sufficiently young to be led himself to the belief that he was the son or nephew of the old man, would be the most desirable favor that could be done him, and one he hinted also, that he believed Don Felix had the ability to do successfully, if he chose to take the matter in hand and gain the reward that such a service would insure to him. 
               Having discovered, since his arrival at Havana, that Inez had succeeded to her father's property, a new project of villany presented itself to the mind of Russell. He learnt that little Jose, his own child, was with Inez in her suburban retreat near the city, and he determined to obtain possession of him and to pass him off to Don Jose as a child whom he had kidnapped from Spain. 
               "The devil never forsakes his own," was his impious expression. "Nothing could have been more apropos. My boy shall be the heir of Don Jose's estate, and I will thus work everything my own way; and then I have the means of torturing that jade Inez to her utmost soul. Master Jose goes on board the "Avenger" to-night, and to-morrow I leave Havana. After a due time and proper teaching I shall bring him as from Old Spain to Seor De Silva, as the kidnapped scion of some Spanish grandee. Ha! ha! ha! is it not true that the devil always helps his own?" 
               This plot having been matured in his mind as promptly as it was conceived, he found little difficulty in carrying it into execution. That night two of his men were deployed to the duty of seizing the child, while Russell himself waited at a convenient distance with a conveyance to take him down to the beach where a boat was waiting to carry the party on board the Avenger. All was easily effected, and ere the sun rose on the following morning the Avenger was standing out of the bay with all sail set and a favorable breeze blowing, and before noon the lofty mountains of Cuba were barely discernible in the thin haze which hung over the land. Russell still glanced carefully around, scanning the horizon with his glass; and seeing nothing to cause alarm as to the probability of pursuit by the authorities, he for the first time descended to the cabin. The little Jose was sleeping on the sofa for very weariness-his cheeks still wet with tears, for he had cried all night and refused to be comforted. 
               Russell stood with his arms folded, gazing sternly at the child-his child-whose features were now for the first time seen by the God-forsaken parent. What were his thoughts at that moment who shall divine! His features underwent various changes of expression, as thoughts of strange but unknown import flitted across his mind. 
               At length he passed his hand gently through the silken ringlets which fell around the child's shoulders, and-of such strange contrariety are we composed-the features of the stern blood-stained pirate relaxed, and he stooped down and softly imprinted a kiss on the pure white forehead of the sleeping boy. 
               The "Avenger" had now no particular destination, the object of Russell being merely to keep out at sea a sufficient length of time to cause a belief on the part of Don Jose de Silva that he had gone to Spain; for the old man had a singular desire that the future child of his adoption should be of old and pure Castilian descent; he, therefore, trusted to the chapter of accidents for the issues and ultimate results of this present voyage. His only immediate object was to get out to sea, so as to be clear of any pursuit should any suspicion have arisen on the part of the Spanish authorities at Havana of the real character of the vessel, or that he had been instrumental in carrying off the child. Little Jose awoke the next morning to a renewed recollection of his grief; and although he was treated kindly by his father and the rude crew of the "Avenger," it was some days before he became even partially reconciled to his situation. But childhood knows no lengthened sorrow; and at length, placing reliance on the promise of Russell, that by and by he should see his mother again, he became not only contented, but happy and cheerful in his novel floating home, and found ample amusement in climbing the rigging of the vessel or watching the sailors at their employment. 
               Thus a few months passed by in listless inaction, for this was a bloodless cruise, and one by no means satisfactory to the crew, who panted for excitement and for gain. To a mind constituted like that of Russell, the monotony was by no means agreeable; but he curbed his impatience in the hope of reaping a future generous recompense for this constrained period of inaction. 
               Sufficient time had elapsed, in the opinion of Russell, to justify him in returning with the boy to Havana; but it was to be feared that he might be recongized nized by those who had known him there, and Russell was undetermined how to act. It had not struck him, in the hurry of the kidnapping plan he had laid out, that Don Jose himself would hear of the abduction of the boy, and that on his return he would be claimed by his mother and friends, if they were still in the city; that in this case he would be unable to palm the child off as of Spanish descent; besides which, he feared now that the boy himself would prove an obstruction to his original design; for he was too old to be made to forget his mother altogether in the course of a few months. Thus in his anxiety to place his own child in the position of adopted heir to the large fortune of Don Jose de Silva, he had got himself into rather an awkward predicament. So it is that the most vigilant knaves often overreach themselves, even when everything appears to work smoothly. 
               Russell, however, was not one to be disheartened, no matter how adverse an appearance matters had assumed. 
               The vessel's head, however, was pointed towards Havana, and a few days, before she neared the land, Russell called the boy into the cabin, and after gaining his confidence by a few caresses and a gift of sweetmeats and other juvenile delicacies, he thus addressed him: 
               "Well, Jose, we shall see the land again in a few days. Shall you be glad of it? Are you tired of being on board the vessel so long?" 
               "Shall I see mama?" said the child eagerly. 
               "I do not know that you will see the lady you call your mama," replied Russell, "but you will see your papa and him you have never yet seen. Shall you not be glad to see your papa, Jose?" 
               "I don't care about him. I have got no papa," responded the child, passionately. "Mama told me so. I want to see my mama." 
               "But that lady you call mama, was not your mother, my boy. She was only your nurse, to whose care you were consigned by your papa, whom you will see in a few days, and who has a very rich capellero, who will give you all sorts of fine things and plenty of money, and by-and-by make you a very rich man." 
               "What was the name of the place I brought you from when you came on board this ship, Jose?" added Russell, "do you remember?" 
               "No," said the child, "but there was my mama's house and a large garden, and I could see the sea from my bedroom, and there was a big city where mama used to take me sometimes." 
               "Don't you know you came from Spain, and are a Spaniard," said Russell, "and the big city, was it not called Seville." 
               "I don't know what it was called," said the boy, impatiently, "but you promised to take me back to mama. I want to see her; and I won't come away on board the nasty ship any more." 
               "Well, but the lady you lived with is in Seville, and you are now a long way from there. If you are a good boy I will take you to your papa, and when you see him and find how kind he is to you, you will learn to love him, and then if you are a good boy he will soon take you to see the lady." 
               "To see my mama?" said the child, inquiringly. 
               "Yes, to see your mama, but you must be good." 
               "I will be good, if the gentleman will take me home," said the child, "but he is not my papa. I have not got any papa; I never did have any; mama told me so." 
               "She did, did she?" said Russell, smiling, amused, in spite of himself, at the boy's tenacity of opinion; "well go on deck and play, Jose. Your father is nearer to you than you-dream of, poor child. However, this is an unrecognised version of the old adage 'It's a wise child that knows its own father.'" 
               Fertile in resource, however, Russell, although somewhat vexed at his own want of foresight, did not doubt but he would succeed in his object. 
               Two or three days passed away, and the "Avenger" again entered the harbor of Havana. Russell, who was an adept in villainy of every description, had manufactured forged papers by which he managed to deceive the Custom House officers and port authorities-aided by a little adroit bribery-and anchoring in the stream, he went on shore to observe, to use a seaman's phrase, "how the land lay." 
               Russell's next movement was to call at the counting house of the old merchant, for it was too early in the day for him to have gone home from business, which he made a point of paying his strictest attention to. He found him at his counting-room, as he had expected, and was welcomed, at least with all the outward show of friendship. 
               "Ha! Seor Don Felix," said the old man, "welcome back to Havana. And how have you succeeded? Have you provided me a protege that is worthy of becoming the heir to my name and wealth? Let me see the prodigy you have brought me, for I have sufficient confidence in your judgment and discretion, Seor Capitano, to presume that you have not returned empty handed." 
               "That I have not, Don Jose," replied Russell, "but I have not brought the prodigy, as you term him, on shore with me. A scheme such as we are carrying out, you will perceive, Senor, requires the exercise of a good deal of that discretion which you flatteringly declare me to be possessed of." 
               "Ha! Don Felix, how is this, you are not deceiving me, I hope; where is our young protege?" 
               "On board the 'Avenger,' Don Jose," said Russell, "I am not accustomed to fail where I have promised to perform, Senor. But we have matters to arrange before I can bring the child on shore." 
               "There may be reason in what you say, Captain," replied Don Jose; "but if the lad be from Spain, I see no reason for such immediate precautions." 
               "Don Jose, there is an old Spanish proverb which says: 'The plan works smoothly, if it be started fairly, but a slip in the outset may spoil the deal irreparably.'" 
               "Look well to the beginning, Senor, and you will have better surety that the ending will be well. However, I will bring the boy on shore to-morrow, and then I will deliver him into your hands, and leave you to do as you please with him." 
               Russell then bid the merchant good night and went on board his vessel. 
               The next morning, at an early hour, Russell brought the little Jose ashore and introduced him to Don Jose de Silva as the gentleman to whom he was in future to look to as his father. 
               Don Jose received him kindly, and expressed himself to Russell as being highly pleased with his personal appearance. 
               "Why," said he, "you have brought me a little Cupidon." 
               "His mother is a lady of wealth and great personal attractions at Seville; who is separated from her husband." 
               "And the child's father is--?" 
               "A Spanish naval officer," said Russell, hastily; "Good morning, Senor. I am going on board my vessel, where, in the course of an hour, you will send me the bills of exchange which we arranged about. I may probably not come on shore again. I have had a weary time of it of late; and my brave lads, as well as I, sigh for some stirring occupation to drive the stagnant blood from our veins. Good bye, Jose; be a good boy, and I may perhaps bring your mama to see you, by and by. Be good friends with your new papa, Don Jose, and he will make a man of you." 
               So saying, Russell left the residence of the merchant, which was on the outskirts of the city, but in an opposite direction to the mansion of Donna Inez, and hurried down to the boat which was waiting for him on the beach. 
               Don Jose was left alone with his little namesake, whom he took by the hand and led into the house. 
               "I am not your papa, as you say, Jose," he said to the child; "but I am your uncle-did your mama never tell you of your uncle Don Jose, who lived at Havana?" 
                
               "No," replied the boy, "she did not; and if you are my uncle, how is it you did not know my mama's name?" 
               "You are a sharp little fellow," said Don Jose; "I did know your mama's name, and merely asked the question for amusement." 
               "But you say my mama is indeed my mama, and Seor Felix say she is not," said the child. "I know who is my mama; why did Seor Felix says she was my nurse?" 
               "I cannot say, my child," said Don Jose; "Donna Inez is your mama, to be sure, and perhaps by and by you shall see her here." 
               "If I'm good?" said the child. "Then I will be very good, and you may be my papa until my own mama comes to see me. Seor Felix was a bad man to take me from her without even letting me kiss her and bidding her good bye." 
               Russell had gone down to his boat and had nearly reached the little creek where it was lying, when two ladies, who appeared to be taking a morning ride, galloped briskly past him, one of them narrowly escaping from riding her horse over him by suddenly reining the animal in. The lady apologized, and Russell looked up to assure her that he was to blame for being so engrossed with thought as not to have observed the approach of the horses. 
               Both the lady and he started involuntarily. 
               "Good heavens!" said Russell to himself, "how astonishing a resemblance to Enrico; can it be possible that she is his sister. Yet he never told me he had relatives in Havana. The resemblance is startling-the very eye of Enrico sparkles beneath the brow of that fair girl." 
               "So, Seor, you are here; then is there mischief in the wind," was the muttered expression of Isabella, for it was she who was on the horse. She, however, simply let fall her veil, and galloped after Isadora, who was riding with her, and who had got some distance ahead of her. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               THE healthy Donna Inez had failed rapidly after the abduction of her child; every means was employed to discover his whereabouts, in vain; and at length, Emma having received a letter from her parents asking her to bring Donna Inez to New-York with her, she allowed herself to be persuaded to undertake the voyage, partly in the hope that her boy might have been carried to the United States, while she was sure Isabella and Isadora would use every means in their power to recover the child. Both ladies arrived safely at New-York, after a pleasant passage from Havana, and both were heartily welcomed by the parents of the latter. 
               Many months as Emma and Inez had been acquainted, it was only within a few weeks preceding their arrival at New-York that they had unbosomed themselves to each other. Although it had been with that object that Inez had so earnestly sought the acquaintance of the young American lady, yet the delicate nature of the subject had always kept her silent even when at times the words had risen to her lips. 
               It was only after the abduction of the child Jose, that the subject which could no longer be hidden, in consequence of the remarks made in her moments of frantic agony by the heart-stricken mother, became a matter of conversation between the two females, both of whom had suffered so deeply by the machinations of the heartless villain Russell, and even then the subject was cautiously introduced, and dwelt upon with pain, as though each on conversing upon it, not only outraged her own feelings, but lacerated at the same time those of her friend. 
               The parents of Emma were still in the dark as to the relations between Inez and Russell, as well as to all that had been revealed to their daughter by her friend, respecting the grosser villanies of Russell. They knew Russell as the base deceiver of their daughter, and the destroyer of her peace of mind, and that was all. That was all-sufficient to cause him to be regarded with horror by them; but although they knew that the bright-eyed, dark-haired, petted child of their visitor-whom they had formerly admired so much-had been kidnapped from her, they did not know, nor had the slightest suspicion that Russell was suspected to have been the kidnapper. 
               With his customary kindness of heart, Mr. --, the father of Emma, busied himself in every way that he could conceive would be useful in leading to the restoration of the child; but all, apparently, in vain. Unclaimed children were sent, and were visited from all parts of the country, but the right one came not, and Inez began to give way to utter despair. She resolved to return to Havana, and there to employ her whole means, even to the utmost penny, in seeking for information of her child-alive or dead; arrangements were made for her departure from New-York in the course of a few weeks, when she received a letter from Seora Isabella, which caused her considerable emotion, and hastened her away by the earliest and quickest means of conveyance. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               THIS letter was from Isabella and informed Donna Inez that she and Isadora, while enjoying their customary morning walk had observed a boat leave a ship in the harbor of Havana from which a tall man and a child had landed; that they had only seen the child from a distance, but from his general appearance they had conceived the idea that it was little Jose. This notion had been strengthened by their having a short time afterwards encountered the stranger, whom they recognized as Don Felix leaving Don Thomaso's mansion, without the child he had carried thither, and they were confident that he and the stranger who had quitted the boat with the child were one and the same person. 
               Of course, as the reader may well suppose, Inez left New-York, after the receipt of this letter, by the earliest means of conveyance, and at the expiration of three weeks landed on the Mole at Havana. Her arrival had been announced to Isabella and Isadora, and she hastened by herself to her own house, where she was met and was warmly received by her friends. 
               They were deeply grieved to see the alteration a few weeks had made in her person. They had not before had their attention drawn to the failure of her health, but the letter which had brought her the intelligence of the probable discovery of her child, had created such a reaction, such exciting, conflicting emotions in her bosom, that the fragile body was unable to bear it, and on the passage from New-York to Havana, her failure of strength had first become apparent to herself. 
               The congratulations of meeting over, her pent up emotions became so painfully exciting that her friends became alarmed, and it was deemed necessary to send for medical assistance, and for several days she was confined to her bed. With great care and the exercise of much skill on the part of her physicians, she was enabled again to pursue her customary avocations, and to mingle with her friends; but the doctors gave it as their opinion, in confidence to her friends, that an incipient decline of the vital powers had already commenced, and though she might linger for months, perhaps even for years, she would gradually decline, and never know a day's health again. They knew not the cause, but they attributed the disease, rightly, to intense, overwrought, silently endured mental agony. 
               Meanwhile, after consulting together, Isadora and Isabella determined to send a letter to Don Jose, stating that the circumstances under which the child of Inez had disappeared some months before, and asking his advice as an influential citizen of Havana, as to the best course the bereaved mother could pursue to obtain information of her darling-stating also that the mother was, in consequence of the loss, in a precarious state of health, and that it was thought she could not long survive the blow which had fallen so heavily upon her. 
                
               A note like this they thought would surely, if Seor de Silva knew any thing of the boy, lead to his recovery by awakening his sympathies in behalf of the bereaved mother. Any other method they believed to be hopeless, at least immediately, as in the wretched condition of the Island of Cuba, they knew a man in Don Jose's station in life and of his influence with the government, and an old Spaniard to boot, could do almost as he chose, and they dared not arouse his anger. 
               They waited a reply to the note for three days. At length it came. With a beating heart and trembling hands, Isabella broke the seal and read: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Don Jose de Sylva sympathises deeply with the sorrows of Donna Inez de Hibera, but he regrets that his sympathy can avail but little under the bereavement. 
                           
                              JOSE DE SILVA. 
                              "Castello della Flora, Habana, 18-."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Thank God," said Isabella fervently, when she had read this cold and supercilious note; "thank God I did not tell poor Inez I had written to this man." 
               Russell received a handsome recompense from Don Jose for the execution of his piece of gross villainy, and for fear of consequences, put out to sea immediately. His vessel was, as has been heretofore stated, a heavy sailer, and though well adapted for a merchant vessel, was as ill fitted as could be well conceived for the roving commission under which she was now employed, and he determined to sell her on the first opportunity and purchase a smaller, swifter and handier vessel for the purpose of his nefarious profession. He accordingly run down with his vessel to Rio Janeiro and there sold her for a considerable sum of money to a Portuguese merchant, who was in need of a vessel to charter to Bombay, to be there consigned with a cargo to New Orleans. Russell had papers forged for all purposes, and had no difficulty in persuading the honest old Portuguese that all was right. Having disposed of his vessel, he disbanded his crew, previously bargaining that one and all should engage for themselves as best they pleased, and all binding themselves to meet at Havana at the expiration of three months by which period Russell engaged to purchase a clipper schooner that would serve purposes he designed, and that would enable him to make some profits on his piratical cruises. 
               Meanwhile Russell had arrived at Havana and had visited Don Jose, and in consequence of the letter he had received from Isabella, and hints that he had received from other sources respecting suspicions that were entertained that he had the child in his possession, which had some months before mysteriously disappeared from the residence of Donna Inez de Hibera, he received him very coldly, and high words had arisen between them; probably the consequences would have been serious, but both these men were too deeply implicated in various fraudulent transactions and too fearful of compromising other parties who bore a good name in Havana, to come to a serious outbreak. 
               Don Jose had become in a short time so attached to the child, that probably, had he pursued an honest, open, straightforward course, on suspecting the real parentage of the boy, matters might have been satisfactorily arranged with the child's mother. But his caution defeated itself, and now he foresaw trouble in the future which, with all his cunning, he knew not how to avert. 
               The two villains, for Don Jose as well as Russell was worthy of that appellation, although his villany was cloaked beneath a sanctimonious garb, had, as they thought, arranged matters so plausibly that no difficulty could possibly arise. 
               But says the old French proverb "l'homme propose mais Dieu dispose," or as Burns more plainly expresses the same sentiment, "The best laid plans of mice and men, gang oft agee," and so these schemers found all their plans frustrated in the present instance. 
               Russell, the second morning after his arrival, was walking through the streets of Havana, having just left the abode of Seor de Silva, where a stormy discussion sion had taken place between the two men. Inez, accompanied by Isabella, had been taking their accustomed pilgrimage in the vicinity of the plantations of the wealthy merchant, and as they were also returning home through the city, from their fruitless errand they met face to face with Russell. The eyes of Inez were cast in a melancholy mood to the ground, when she was aroused from her gloomy reverie by a sudden start, and an exclamation from her companion caused her to raise her head, and as she did so her glance fell on the features of Russell, who stood right before her. 
               The villain turned pale, for there was something fearful in the expression of the countenance which met his gaze. The nostrils were dilated, and the form drawn up to the full height, while the eyes lately suffused with tears glared upon him with an almost demoniacal fury. For a moment Inez gasped for breath, and then with the rage of a tigress and almost supernatural strength, she sprang towards him, and before he could avoid her, clutched him by the throat with a grip that nearly strangled him. 
               "Wretch! villain! give me back my child!" she yelled, rather than screamed; "give me back my child! pirate! robber! murderer! what have you done with my boy? where is my little Jose?" 
               In vain Russell writhed and struggled to free himself from the fearful grasp she had of his throat. Strong man as he was, his strength was as nothing beneath the maniacal strength which uncontrolable fury had given to that slender, fragile, delicate form. His eyeballs seemed ready to start from his head, and his face grew black with the effects of strangulation. He writhed and twisted and essayed to call for help; but in vain; he could not shake off the furious woman whom his misdeeds and life-long villainy had so cruelly wronged, until at length he had wrought her into a state of frenzy. 
               "My child, my Jose, give me back my child, monster!" she reiterated again and again, while Russell, his strength utterly exhausted, had fallen to the ground. Yet still the infuriated woman would not loosen her grasp, and still the unearthly cry was re-echoed, "Monster, perjured wretch, give me back my child!" 
               Isabella stood aghast with terror, and a crowd soon assembled around them. Isabella, tremblingly but earnestly explained the circumstances of outrageous villainy which had led to the catastrophe; and that which all former patient endeavors had failed to effect was effected by this unexpected contretemps. The feelings of the populace were aroused; the women listened with sympathy and urged the men to action: "A el cas-d'el Senor Don Jose de Silva" was shouted, and, for the moment, fearless of the restraint of the authorities, the impetuous Creoles rushed in a body to the house of Seor de Silva, determined to burst and ransack the dwelling, and uttering as they swarmed along, the furious exclamations of revenge which the Spanish tongue, perhaps more than any other, can give force and expression to. 
               Russell was released from the deadly grasp of Inez, who was with great difficulty restored to some degree of composure, although the prostration that followed was alarming. It required the utmost exertions of the police to prevent Russell, who was utterly exhausted and in a most pitiable condition, from being torn in pieces by the females who had remained gazing, on the singular scene; but he was finally rescued with his clothing torn, and his face bruised and disfigured, and lodged in custody until the facts which had led to the rencontre should be investigated. 
               To the house of Don Jose rushed the infuriated crowd; the gates of the plantation were closed, but the walls and fences were scaled by scores at a time. Over the beautiful grounds, and through the flower beds, rushed the infuriated mob, bearing devastation in their path. The servants of the house saw their approach, and though uncognizant of the cause of the manifestation, they fled in terror, while Don Jose, who really possessed some courage, stood but for a few moments as if wavering whether or not to risk their advent, and then followed his servants' example. From room to room, over the devoted mansion, passed the crowd of men, breaking locks and damaging furniture as it came in their way, or offered any obstruction to their progress. At length in the nursery, they found the terrified child weeping bitterly, and crying out in his distress for his mama. A shout of triumph was sent up from the rough men. "You shall see your mama, mi pobre pettito," said one of the men; "we have come to carry you to her." And borne on the shoulders of the rough men, Jose was carried through the streets in triumph to his mother's dwelling-the crowd swelling with the addition of the females, as it passed through the streets of the city. 
               The restoration of her child had for some days a wonderful effect upon the heroine of our story. As the tumult which had been raised in her breast by the late exciting scenes she had passed through gradually subsided, she appeared to have recovered a new lease of life. The late symptoms of chronic languor, so especially marked in her who had been noted for her peculiarly sanguine temperament, almost entirely disappeared, and although now, she would not trust her child one moment out of her sight, he occupying a crib in her bedroom at night, and being guarded over with lynx-like watchfulness during the day, she recovered her gayety, mingled in society-always taking the child with her-and became more like the Inez of six months previous than any of her friends ever again expected to see her, and Isabella and Isadora both hoped that death had missed his quarry and left her yet to pass many happy years upon earth. 
               But this was but a delusion; the temporary effect of a thorough revulsion of feeling. The grim King of Terrors had marked his prey-the barb had been leveled with unerring aim, and though he toyed with the line and allowed his victim still to sport and play in the anticipation of months and years of earthly happiness, he was not to be baulked of his captive. 
               Poor Inez!-a year or two ago and life was a burthen to her; but now, when the child she had thought was dead had been found alive; when the riches of the world had fallen into her lap; when she had found a home, and lived beloved and respected among those whom she loved; now it seemed hard to die. Now it was that her boy most demanded her maternal care; he was now of an age when the pliant mind might be stamped with any impress, and a mother's care might render the impress indelible. Let his youthful mind now run to waste, and his opening intellect become choked with weeds, and it might take years, even a life-time, to eradicate them. True, she had friends in whose good offices she could firmly repose her trust, should she in dying commend her child to their care; but she felt and knew, as all mothers feel and know, that a mother's place cannot be supplied even by the most faithful deputy; but days wore on and still Inez failed every day more rapidly; now it was but for an hour or two that leading Jose by the hand, she strolled through the grounds surrounding her dwelling, or sat down on the rustic seats interspersed here and there over the grounds, and watched the white sails of the vessels in the distance, and the sport of the sea gulls beneath the cliff, vigorously plying the piscatory art by which they supply themselves and their young brood with food-while the grateful sea breeze fanned her hectic cheek and fevered brow, and for the time being seemed to impart renewed health and life to her frame-and then those intervals of exercise grew fewer, and still fewer, until it was but rarely she ventured beyond the immediate precincts of the house. 
               A Mexican hammock was prepared for her, in which she could lounge throughout the day in the open air, beneath the shade of a grove of citron and orange trees; for as her breath came more painfully, she found the house, with all its appliances for the purpose of coolness, too oppressive, and here she lay for hours watching the gambols of the boy, who, poor fellow! little dreamed of the greatest calamity a child can know, that was about to befall him; and yet at times he seemed to feel that something was wrong, and he would stop his childish play and look wistfully towards his mother, approaching the swinging hammock by degrees, until he got sufficiently close to place his small hand in hers and draw it to him, and at these times the mother and child would indulge in mutual caresses, and Inez would draw the boy's round, healthy face to her own pallid, almost transparent cheek, and bury his small head beneath the profusion of jetty curls which floated unconfined upon her shoulders; and so they would remain for minutes together, and when at length they raised their heads, the dark, lustrous eyes of Inez would be suffused with tears-tears wrung from the fountain of the heart, and overflowing with a strange commingling of maternal love and pride, and hope and apprehension, while a tear drop might also be seen glistening in the dark eyelashes of the boy himself, called thither by-who shall not say what childish emotions; for childhood has its emotions, perhaps more keenly felt than those of later years, when years of struggling with the callous world has in some measure deadened the gentler sensibilities. And where all this time is Russell? We left him, having sailed a month or two previous to the present period of our narrative, from the port of Havana, on a cruise, in a well appointed, rapid-sailing schooner, with as daring, reckless a crew as ever sailed under the blood-red folds of a rover's flag. His destination was unknown to himself; it depended on chance and the circumstances that might control his action in the course of the pursuit of his nefarious trade; but whether his cruise was marked with success or not, we shall not now say. It lasted but a short time; for, regardless of the dangers that might accrue from a visit to Havana so soon after his flight; regardless of the trouble his presence in Cuba might cause to Don Jose; careless indeed of anything except the gratification of his own imperious will-Russell determined to be in Havana at the date specified by him to his crew in parting with them at Rio Janeiro, and to ship such of them as chose to keep their word and meet him in that city. 
               Accordingly, having run into an English West India port and purchased a small assortment of European goods, so as to give color to his pretences that his schooner was a mere trading vessel, and having procured the necessary papers and clearances at the Custom House, Russell, at the appointed time, made his re-appearance in the port of Havana; boldly run his vessel into the very centre of the harbor, and went ashore and reported himself at the Custom House. His meeting with Don Jose was not friendly. The relations existing between the two men forbade such a sentiment as friendship existing between them; but in one respect it was candid enough, for Russell had in that brief cruise been at least sufficiently successful to enable him to repay Don Jose the advance he had made, per force, of ready money, and also to pay a good per centage on the schooner. His cargo also sold readily, and realized a handsome profit on the outlay; so, altogether, things looked more favorably than could have been hoped for. 
               Having visited Don Thomaso and arranged such business as they had in common, all of which was of a disreputable nature, Russell hastily wished the old Don good night. 
               As Russell left the house of the merchant his thoughts were not the most pleasing-perhaps there was a faint feeling of remorse at work within his breast, as he thought of the near approach of death to one for whom once he had entertained all the love his nature was capable of feeling, and who had been so strangely mixed up with his destiny. A strange lingering feeling of parental affection for his boy Jose also might have been another cause to lead him to visit the neighborhood of the residence of Donna Inez; to guard himself from recognition from the inmates, but to endeavour to get a glimpse of them himself. Whatever might have been the feelings which actuated his movements, he, on quitting the mansion of Don Jose, instead of going direct on board the schooner as he had said he should do on bidding good night to Don Jose, proceeded to the residence of Inez. 
               As he approached the house, he was astonished to see that the rooms were lighted up at that late hour. 
               "Sickness here!" he exclaimed. "That cursed old dotard doesn't know half the time what he talks about. Some festivity is going forward, and here goes to get an outside view of the proceedings." 
               So muttering to himself, he sprang over the low palings which separated the grounds of the house from the public road, and rapidly, but cautiously walked up the path which led to the front of the dwelling, intending to ensconce himself under the shadow of some acacias which crept up a balcony in front of the windows, and there to be an uninvited spectator of all that might be going forward. 
               Having reached the spot, he peered earnestly through the wide jalousies which were open to admit the air; but he started back in dismay on perceiving that where he had expected to witness gayety and merry-making, funeral solemnities were being observed. 
               He looked not into the abode of mirth, but into the chamber of death! 
               Extended upon a low couch drawn near to the window, lay the body of Donna Inez de Hibera; pale and beautiful she looked in death, the chiseled features seeming as though they were carved from the purest marble, while the dark, silky fringes of the closed eyelids and the abundant dark hair, covering her shoulders and extending downwards to her waist, threw the only shade over the pallid features. A white funeral robe covered the slender form and reached some length beyond the feet of the corpse. At either end of the couch two tall wax candles were burning, and at the head of the couch sat two females with their backs turned to the window, weeping bitterly. Little Jose whom Russell but a few months before had pictured as lying asleep in his crib, was truly sleeping; but it was the troubled sleep of childish sorrow; he had evidently been crying over the dead body of his mother, until he had fallen asleep in very weariness, and was lying across the couch, his head resting on his mother's bosom-that bosom that would never warm again to him, on earth. That mother was now the guardian angel, not the earthly parent of her beloved child. The face of the sleeping child was blistered with tears, and he still moaned in his sleep as though conscious, even in his childish dreams, of the dreadful, irreparable loss he had sustained. 
               A few fragrant shrubs and flowers were strewn over the couch, and a bouquet rested in the thin pale hands of the corpse, which were crossed upon her bosom, beneath the head of the sleeping child. The rest of the large room was in a state of funereal gloom. 
               The eyes of Russell were riveted as if spell-bound to the scene. He heard not the barking of a small watch dog whom the unwelcome presence of the midnight intruder had roused from his fitful slumbers, and he did not even observe that one of the females had arisen and left the chamber to discover what it was which had caused the dog to bark at that lone hour of night. He heard nothing; he saw nothing but the melancholy sight before him, and statue-like, with his eyes fixed upon the corpse, he stood as if struck with paralysis. 
               It was Isabella who had arisen to quiet the cur, which was still barking furiously. As she approached, the animal rushed into the balcony, and there she saw the object which had created his alarm. Isabella possessed masculine courage. She had in early life, as the reader knows, been familiar with danger of every description; nor was she superstitious, nevertheless, her courage faltered when she saw and recognized Russell in the midnight intruder upon the sacredness of the house of death. Could it be he in reality, she thought, or was it his immaterial shadow. Had he died during the short interval of a few weeks since last she had seen him, and was it his restless spirit that had quitted its abode in Hades to witness one of the effects of its earthly career of villany? This was but the thought of a moment. She soon recovered herself, and, as if seized with a sudden impulse, she walked up to Russell, and seizing his hand, drew him passively on his part into the house; indeed he followed her mechanically as if unconscious of what he was doing, and it was only on being placed by his conductress near the couch on which the dead body lay, that he seemed to awaken to a knowledge of his position. 
               "See, Don Felix de Cavarhal," said Isabella, pointing to the marble features of the corpse, "see your work-look at her whose peace of mind you wrecked, when she who now lies before you a senseless corpse, was in the spring tide of innocent girlhood-see her whose after life was embittered by your baseness and cruelty-she whom you have at length succeeded in hurrying into a premature grave-see the child whom you have rendered motherless, and then go, pursue your reckless, hardened course, and forget, if you can, the desolation you have been the cause of, the hearts you have racked and tortured, the homes and hearth-stones you have rendered wretched." 
               She ceased to speak, her finger still pointing to the dead body. Russell knew the voice of Don Enrico, and raising his eyes towards the other female, he recognized in her, as he thought, in feminine disguise, his late New-York page-him whom he believed he had murdered by casting into the river. 
               His knees smote together. "Where am I," he said, "and who is it that speaks to me? That voice,-that face is Enrico's and the figure before me is that of the murdered Pedro. What is this? Good heavens! what is the meaning of this?" 
               "Call not on heaven, Don Felix-Heaven is no word to pass your lips," replied Isabella. "I am she you only knew as Enrico, and that is the female whom you knew as the boy Pedro, saved from the watery grave you sought to send him to, unanointed and unanealed, with all his sins upon his head. This is retribution; for you to meet us thus in the presence of death, and death, too, that lies at your door." 
               We have said that Russell was superstitious to a degree. The strange position into which he appeared to himself to have been brought by a mysterious power, was too much for his already shaken nerves; and he who was at home in every scene of blood and cruelty that the mind can conceive, sank fainting to the floor, overcome by the presence of the earthly remains of the victim of his passions and cruelty, and of the two females he had again met under such singular circumstances. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               The terrified females rang for the servants; but before they reached the room, for they were all soundly sleeping, Russell had recovered himself. "Call no assistance," he said, as he rose to his feet and passed his hand over his brow, as if to assure himself he was not dreaming. "Call no assistance, I am quite well, and shall immediately leave the house." His face was blanched; but he walked firmly to the couch on which the dead mother and the sleeping child reposed, and taking hold of one of the cold hands of the corpse, he examined for a moment the rings that were on the fingers, and, at length selected one with a small amethyst set in a plain, light gold circlet. This he drew from the finger, and taking a pen-knife from his pocket, he cut a long lock of hair from the mother's head, as well as from that of the child, and placed them in his pocket. 
               "This is no robbery," he said to Isabella and Isadora, who stood by gazing at his movements without the power of doing anything to restrain him, even had he despoiled the dead body of all the trinkets that still ornamented the neck and fingers, or rather we should say, still remained to show how perishable is the mortal frame which attaches such importance to these glittering gewgaws. 
                
               "This is no robbery," he repeated. "Strange that she should have retained that ring? It was the only present I ever made her, and was given as an acknowledgment of the interest she had used with her father to find me employment, when I was well nigh starving. I go, and of my own will-I shall see you no more on earth. If, as the priests say, there is a hereafter, I may-faugh! What what am I canting about-" 
               He stopt abruptly-stooped down, and gently kissed the still sleeping child. He then threw a bulky pocket-book on the table, and saying-"This is for the boy, and for masses for the repose of the dead-she believed in that nonsense"-he hastened from the mansion of death. 
               In the course of a day or two, the corpse of Donna Inez was interred with great solemnity. There were few mourners, for the deceased was not known to very many on the island; but the few were sincere, for all who did know her had conceived a high estimation of her character. 
               Russell remained in Havana but a day or two after this. He saw Don Jose the next day, and his deportment betrayed a more daring, devil-may-come spirit than ever. There was a recklessness in all he did, which frightened the cautious merchant. He believed him to be insane, and was glad upon any terms to get rid of him. 
               In a day or two, several of Russell's old crew, according to appointment, met their old commander at Havana, and was by him engaged as a portion of the crew of his brig, and with them he set sail from the island. 
               Russell, on leaving Havana, had left behind him, upon the soil of Cuba, all the remorse which it was evident had preyed upon his conscience despite his daredevil hardihood, after having been so suddenly confronted with the corpse of one of the most innocent victims of his treachery and cruelty. 
               He was a strangely constituted man. As he told us at a later period, the remorseless feeling which at first gained full possession of his breast, at the sight of the dead body of poor Inez in her mansion at Havana, had never since been entirely obliterated from his memory, even amid the seducements of illicit love, or amidst the scenes of noise, confusion and danger that his nefarious course of life so frequently led him into. 
               The crew, after a while, began to grow weary of inactivity; and it is the same with the underlings of a pirate vessel as with the hirelings of a despot-allow them to remain for a moment inactive, and feelings of disaffection begin to spread, and the smouldering volcano will seater destruction and death amongst themselves and their supine leaders, unless it be happily averted by some extraneous influence which allows a vent to long pent-up feelings of dissatisfaction. 
               For along time Russell was deaf to the remonstrances which were urged against his supineness by one or two of his most attached followers, who saw the danger that was otherwise inevitable brewing; but at length he was fully aroused to necessity of action. 
               For some months from this period the Avenger-for Russell had christened his brig after the old ship he had sold in Brazil-was a scourge upon the ocean; and her commander and crew, habituated as they were to scenes of bloodshed and crime of every description, now actually wallowed in excesses, and committed deeds of atrocity that would not be credited were we to attempt to narrate one half of them; but we will state, that of the many vessels which leave their ports and are henceforward unheard of, not one in five are lost by stress of weather, or founder at sea by accident. We leave the reader to form his own ideas as to what we allude to. 
               Finding, however, that the government cruisers were on his track, he determined to make a bold strike and quit his cruising ground altogether. 
               Accordingly he laid in wait for a small British vessel that was loading at St. Kitts, and having watched her until she had completed her loading, he pounced on board of her outside the harbor, and murdered the crew, after having obtained all the information he could possibly get from the captain, by means of torture; sent his own brig under the command of his lieutenant to the Brazils, and came on to Boston with the West Indiaman, having her regular manifest and all other papers connected with his cargo on board. 
               The cargo was consigned by him for sale to a commission house in Boston, and Russell came on to New-York. 
               For some time past we have lost Tom, the sailor, who figured with Russell in New-York, when the attempt was made by the latter to impose upon Emma-by a false marriage. 
               This vulgar, double-dyed scoundrel, had since that period been in command of a small sloop on the North River, trading from the city to the different little ports on the river, as high as Albany. He also had frequently been away below the Neversink with his vessel, and was carrying on quite a lucrative business by smuggling, being in connection with several captains of vessels from foreign ports, who discharged, before they came into the waters of New-York Bay, the contraband goods they had on board, into the sloop. This vessel, tolerably well known on the river, and generally supposed to be an honest and industrious trader, managed to land the goods without awakening the suspicion of the Custom House, and thus "Tom" was amassing a considerable sum of money; he, of course, having a good commission on all the contraband goods he disposed of. 
               In addition to this, he was driving a brisk trade among the river thieves, who finding it not always safe or convenient to carry the produce of their nightly depredations on shore for sale, were glad to avail themselves of the opportunity afforded them by the aforesaid obliging "Tom," which was the only name he was known by among these thieves, and this time we have given the true name. These thieves, we say, were glad to make use of the opportunity afforded them of disposing of their spoil for a fair consideration, to the captain of the sloop, who, in his turn, had ample opportunities to get rid of them, without raising the shadow of a suspicion that they were not the spare rigging and other ship's stores of the sloop. 
               Altogether "Tom" was beginning to look up in the world; and he had prospered so well, that he began to think of taking a pew in some church, and thus acquiring an appearance of respectability in the cheapest and readiest way. 
               Russell's first care on landing in New-York was to make inquiry for Tom. Not that there was any assimilation of mind between the two, further than that both preyed upon their fellow-creatures to the utmost extent of their ability. This was no difficult matter. Russell soon found that he was on a Hudson river sloop, and he dispatched a letter requesting Tom to call at his hotel. 
               Tom replied to the letter in person, and was soon deeply engaged in conversation with his former patron, laughing and chuckling over the success of their villanies. 
               "What, may a body ask, has brought you to New-York now, Mister Russell?" said Tom, changing the conversation. "I should think, since you were clear off, it would have been as well if you had given this little village a wide berth in future. You ain't a going to practice medicine again, are you, Mister Russell?" 
               "No, Tom," replied Russell, "not that I am aware of. In fact, I scarcely know what brought me here, but the spirit of mischief, that urges me everywhere where the d-l has work to do. By and by, Tom, have you ever heard any thing of the young lady who once came under your hands when exercising your clerical functions for the first and last time in this city?" 
               "No, Mister Russell, I know nothing of consequence about her. I have met her once or twice, riding out with her father, old-of Broad-street-disconsolate like-but I al'lers turned my head t'other way; not that I think they could recognize me; but somehow I al'lers suspicions that she might do so, and though nothing would come of it, it might hurt me in the way of business, you see." 
               "Well, Tom, that young lady and her c-d old father are one cause of my visiting New-York now. I have never been baulked yet in my revenge, and I wont be now if I can help it, and I want you to lend me a hand, if need be, in any scheme that I may concoct to entrap the girl, or to do her and her old father an injury, for which you shall be well recompensed, as you have been heretofore. Jack Russell never forgets a service and never forgives an affront." 
               "Ah!" replied Tom, biting his finger nails, a common habit with him when he was, as he termed it, in a quandary. "Ah! I see; but, Mister Russell, atwixt you and I there are other matters to speak about before I can consent to lend a hand in any thing o' that sort, you know. It was different, you see, when I was a stranger in the city, and rather hard up in the bargain; you see, I have now got a character to lose. I have become what the world calls a respectable man, Mister Russell, have an account at a banker's, and own some Long Island building lots. You see it would be an awkward sort of business for me to interfere with; but I shall not baulk you, Mister Russell, sir; I shall not baulk you." 
               "So-o! you are a respectable man, are you," said Russell, sneeringly. "Tom, that may do very well to tell to stranger, but you and I know too much of each other to play at cross purposes, and I have taken precious good care to inform myself regarding your movements, master Tom, before I made any overtures to you. I have but to lift up my little finger, and down comes all your respectability with a crash to the ground, and you will find yourself comfortably lodged in a certain stone building not far from here, and boarded at the expense of the city. Tom, you are bound to me as firmly as any one else who has once done business with me, and I give you fair warning; I may not need your services, but if I do, you must give them to me for nothing, if you serve me unwillingly; for a generous recompense, if you acquit yourself faithfully and energetically. Mark what I have said, and seek not to gammon me with your Mawworm respectability." 
               The sneaking, grovelling villain quailed beneath the fierce eye of Russell, and whined out some sort of an apology as to his never wishing to desert an old friend and patron. 
               "It is well, then," said Russell, "that is sufficient-we understand each other, I trust. Mind, I may not need you. If I do, you must attend to me." 
               Shortly after this the two scoundrels parted for the night, and Russell retired to his chamber. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               Russell had determined on this outrage, solely for the purpose of revenge, for his love for Emma had long since evaporaed. All he now sought was to ruin her happiness for ever. 
               With this object in view, he called in the aid of his worthy partner in iniquity, the sailor Tom, who, by-the-by, had ere this assumed the dignity of a surname, and taken to himself the name of that very ancient, numerous, and highly respectable family, the Smiths. Russell dared not to show himself active in the deed of iniquity that he had planned; for he knew that were he to place himself in the power of the authorities; were it even known that he was in New-York, his liberty would not be worth a day's purchase. Tom, or Mr. Smith, as we will now call him, was equally amenable to the stern power of the law, for his crimes upon society; but he was not known nor suspected, and therefore was comparatively safe from harm. 
               The day of the wedding came, which was to unite Emma with the young man of her choice, a Mr. Markham, from Wisconsin-a lawyer of good family, and a young man of talent-whose family were connected in the female line, by marriage, with that of Emma's mother. The wedding party arrived and took rooms at the only hotel the village afforded, and in due time entered the church where the Episcopalian clergyman was waiting to perform his sacred duty. 
               Emma was in better spirits than she had been for many a day, and looked very beautiful, being attired in white satin, and covered with the fairy-like bridal veil. The old merchant and his wife were delighted at the happy change that in their ideas awaited their beloved child, who was not to leave them, it having been pre-arranged by the wealthy father of the bride that Markham should permanently reside in the city, and there practice his profession, having all the weighty influence of his future father-in-law to assure him of success. 
               As to Markham himself he was of course in a delirium of happiness. We shall not attempt to describe his feelings, but shall leave them to the imagination of our readers, many of whom have experienced them themselves at one happy period of their lives; others must form such an idea as best they may, by placing themselves, in fancy, in similar positions. 
               The beautiful service of the church had been read, and the momentous interrogatories were being put to the happy bridegroom and the blushing bride, who, in spite of the occasion, felt a strange tremor pervade her limbs, as though she foreshadowed that evil was to come from this anticipated happiness. 
               The clergyman had asked the usual question-whether any impediment existed to the marriage; and, in the midst of the solemn pause which ensued, a deep voice from the gallery of the church forbade the further progress of the ceremony. 
               The bride shrieked, and fell senseless into the arms of her intended husband, and a general consternation prevailed among the bridal party and the few spectators whom curiosity had led to witness the marriage solemnity. 
               The clergyman stood transfixed with astonishment; and the bridegroom, his face flushed, and his limbs trembling with indignation, was vainly endeavoring to recall his senseless but lovely burthen to animation. 
               The father of the bride was the first to recollect himself; for the poor lady, her mother, was almost in the same condition as her unfortunate daughter. 
               "Who dares," said the old man, looking towards the locality whence the voice proceeded, "who dares thus irreverently to interrupt the ceremony? Who are you, sir, that thus mocks at one of God's holy ordinances, in this sacred edifice! Speak, sir, and let me know if this be in jest or in earnest; in earnest it cannot be; for there exists no impediment that should prevent the marriage of my child. It may be a mistake; but if so, sir, before I am satisfied, it shall be investigated; and if it be but a sorry jest, it is the worse for yourself that you ever uttered, for the sacrilege shall cost you dearly!" He ceased speaking, and stood awaiting a reply, his whole frame quivering with just indignation. 
               A tall, gaunt figure, arrayed in sombre garments of a puritanical cut, rose from his seat in the gallery, and replied: 
               "Several months ago, I cannot now exactly recollect the date, but I can find it out by reference to papers I have at home, I performed the marriage service, privately, between yonder young lady and a gentleman of the name of Russell, from whose care she was subsequently taken by force, or whose protection she left of her own accord. I solemnly, here, in this sacred building, proclaim her to be the wife of Mister Russell, whom I have good reason to believe is now living." 
               "It is false-villainous liar, and you know it!" said Mr. --, forgetful in his fury of the place in which he was, and heedless of the impropriety of his language; "it is false, sir. You and your infamous accomplice, Russell, as you call him, though I have reason to think that was not his real name, attempted to delude and deceive my unfortunate child, but your abominable design was happily discovered in time, and was frustrated. I beg, sir," turning to the clergyman, "that the ceremony may proceed, and I will then take such measures as shall lead to the punishment of yonder audacious swindler." 
               "It cannot be, sir," relied the clergyman, "even if the young lady were in a fitting condition to go through with the ceremony-and you perceive she is still insensible. I am bound, no matter how firm is my disbelief of the statements put forward by that man in the gallery," whom I recognize as one who has been a few days in the village, and who purports to be really a clergyman-I am bound, I repeat, to have the matter investigated before I can proceed. Meanwhile I wish to speak with the person, who, by his singular assertion, has caused this distressing scene. Be so good, sir, as to meet me after the party has retired, and explain the cause of this strange proceeding." 
               He spoke, however, to empty air, for Smith had slipped unperceived from the church. 
               Two only of the ruffians were captured, and they proved to be a sailor belonging to the sloop, and the supposed Methodist clergyman. 
               They were roughly handled by the enraged villagers, and consigned to the nearest prison. The unhappy party proceeded to the hotel, where, as soon as Emma was restored to consciousness, they returned to New-York, in a different frame of mind to that in which they had only that morning commenced their inauspicious journey. 
               The two men were tried for the outrage, and the sailor turning evidence for the commonwealth, it was found that the supposed clergyman was no other than Tom, the sailor, or Captain Smith; and in the course of the trial such evidence turned up of his numerous misdeeds, that he was found guilty of the offence, and sent to States' Prison for life. His confinement, however, was but short, for the wretch died there shortly afterwards, it was supposed from the effects of poison which he had secreted on his person. 
               This sad affair proved a death-blow to poor unfortunate Emma, and she sunk after a short time into a state of confirmed melancholy. Whether or not she is now living we will not say. It is enough and sad enough to know, that the peace of a once happy and estimable family was totally destroyed by the villany of the demon Russell. 
               Russell was not again seen in New York, but he had fixed his blight upon it, wherever he had introduced himself-a blight, the memory of which is not yet obliterated. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               At length the days of mourning for the hopeless Inez were over, and Isabella and Isadora, who had as yet escaped the shafts of Cupid, were shortly doomed to feel the smart. They had many suitors whom they had discarded; at length the right ones came in the persons of two brothers, natives of New-Orleans, but of Spanish descent. 
               Senors Juan and Alberto Salivero were the sons of a Spanish merchant who had emigrated from Seville for the purpose of taking charge of a New-Orleans branch of a large and wealthy Spanish house. He had come from Spain, when quite a young man, and a few years afterwards had married the daughter of an American physician in extensive practice. The fruits of this union were two sons, Juan and Alberto, and a daughter Julia, who, however, had died when an infant. 
               The entire attention of the doating father and mother had been given to the education and the mental and physical culture of their two remaining children. For this purpose, Senor Salivero, who had acquired in middle life a large fortune, retired from business, and he and his wife, aided by teachers of eminence, devoted themselves to this one object. As the disposition of the children were naturally amiable, they grew up under this fostering care all that the most sanguine hopes of their parents could have desired. 
               Both were extremely handsome, and as well trained in those physical accomplishments which gave health to the body, and beauty, grace, and agility to the frame, as they were all schooled in mental lore, and in those lighter accomplishments which tend so harmoniously to relieve the severity of weightier but duller literary pursuits. 
               The wealth of Don Salivero was am ply sufficient to have supported his children in a life of indolence; but such a career as this was incompatible with the excellent training they had been subjected to in the earlier years of boyhood, and was not in accordance with the views of their parents regarding them, and they had both been placed at a proper age in such professions as seemed most agreeable to their inclinations. Juan, the eldest, had entered the naval service of the United States as a midshipman, and was at the period we write a lieutenant on board the sloop of war. Alberto, who was of a rather more studious turn, had been articled to a lawyer of eminence, and had just been called to the bar. 
               It was on a sort of holiday trip, on account of their both having received their preferment at nearly the same time, and there being no immediate call for their services, that they had visited Havana, with the intention of seeing and spending some few weeks with some distant relatives of their father's family. 
               Isabella and Isadora were seated one evening on the verandah of their mansion when they observed two young men galloping past on horseback; they were still some distance from the mansion, but were evidently riding in hot haste with the object of reaching the city before a storm, which was evidently at hand, should burst upon them. 
               They were, however, too late, or rather the storm was too swift for them. Scarcely had they been observed by Isadora, who had pointed them out to Jose, before one of the sudden tornadoes peculiar to the tropics burst upon the island in all its dreadful fury. 
               By this time the young men had just ridden past the gates which opened into the main entrance to the wide grounds of the mansion. 
               "I hope those two gentlemen will get home safe," said Isabella, as they hurried into the house. It is a pity they did not come in here for shelter, for the storm is terrible, and the rain falls in torrents as though a second deluge were let loose." 
               As she spoke, a fearful flash of blue lightning illuminated the darkness, and a terrific burst of thunder was heard, that sounded as though all the buildings in the city a mile or two distant had fallen together, or like the booming or cracking of a thousand pieces of artillery, of different caliber. 
               "This is dreadful," said Isadora, after having for a moment held her breath. "I do not know that ever I heard a londer peal of thunder, and the lightning gleams frightfully." 
               "I fear there will be much mischief done," answered Isabella. "Those two poor men that passed can never reach the city in the midst of this tempest." 
               While yet she and Isadora were talking of the storm and lamenting its probable effects, a rap, scarcely audible even in the brief lulls of the tempest, was heard. 
               "Who can that be?" both said at once. "Some poor creature perhaps in need of shelter;" and without waiting to summon the servants, who were crouching in the kitchen half dead with fright, Isadora unfastened the door, which opening with a burst from the force of the wind pressing against it, threw her backwards, while the wind uplifted carpets and threw down chairs as though some spirit rappers were holding a devil's jubilee. 
               A youth entered, presenting a most woefully forlorn appearance, hatless and shoeless, and drenched with rain, which streamed from his clothing in a dozen small torrents; he hurriedly and almost breathlessly explained that he and his brother had been riding out and were overtaken by the storm; that the horse his brother rode had been struck with lightning and killed, and that in falling the horse had rolled upon his rider and bruised him severely, and that he feared his leg was broken. He had, he said, carried him into an untenanted negro hut they chanced to be near, and with great difficulty had reached the house amid the blinding fury of the storm. 
               The case was one of urgent necessity, and notwithstanding the tempest raged without sign of abatement, Isabella insisted that four or five stout Negro servants should immediately go to the aid of the hurt stranger, and bring him to the house, his brother guiding them to the spot where he lay. This was of course much against the will of the negroes, but opposition to the imperative orders of Isabella they well knew was vain, and they proceeded to comply with her demand. 
               Within a quarter of an hour the party returned with the injured young man, for whom a couch had been provided. His brother found that no bones were broken, but the limb was severely sprained and much bruised-so much so, that it was impossible for him to stand. 
               To send to the city for medical assistance or advice was perfectly out of the question; but restoratives in abundance were in the mansion, and poor Alberto, for it was he who was injured, was soon, by his brother's aid and the kindness of the ladies, made comparatively easy. The ladies retired to rest, and Juan slept on a sofa in the same apartment with his brother. 
               In the morning Alberto found himself quite recovered from the stunning effects of the fall, but he was totally unable to walk, and his removal to the city was out of the question. Isabella and Isadora would hear of no excuses or apologies-a medical man was sent for, and the two brothers became the guests of their kind friends in need. 
               For three weeks Alberto was unable to move from his couch, but at the end of that time he began to move about, with the aid of his brother's arm or that of one or other of his kind hostesses. Quite an intimacy had by this time sprung up between the youthful couples, and when they left the hospitable mansion to return to their hotel in the city, it was with many interchanges of friendly compliments as well as thanks on the part of Juan and Alberto. 
               Future visits were made, and the intimacy naturally enough, and as might be expected, ripened into a more tender feeling on both sides. It is not our intention to follow up a train of courtship scenes. Those who wish to read them can find enough of them in the namby pamby, trashy, yellow-cover novels of the day; but we will say at once that Juan and Isabella and Alberto and Isadora were lovers, and that in due time, and indeed in a very short time afterwards-for where all were pleased there was little need of delay-with the full consent of the parents of the young men, the loving couples were united in the bonds of matrimony. 
               The bridal party set out immediately on a visit to New-Orleans, and in a month or two afterwards Juan was ordered to join his vessel, which was going on a twelve-month's cruise. Now that Alberto had become a married man, with the prospect of becoming the father of a family, he gave up his law practice, and determined to devote his time to the management of the Havana estate, held in trust for Jose, for his pecuniary means were abundant; and after Juan had sailed, he, with his wife and sister-in-law returned to Havana. 
               Another twelvemonth has passed by. Sitting on the verandah of the late Donna Inez's mansion, gazing on the broad expanse of ocean glittering in the rays of the setting sun, are a gentleman and two ladies, and a little boy of some eight or ten years of age. The reader will recognize the party as consisting of Alberto, Isabella, Isadora, and Jose; but in the lap of each of the females is a baby of only a few months old. 
               Juan is still absent, but the arrival of his vessel at Norfolk is daily expected to be heard of by his wife, who will then rejoin him, and for the first time present her child to his father. She looks forward to that moment with a strange feeling of pleasure. She has written to him to inform him of the advent of the little stranger, and has received from a distant land, a reply, couched in terms of overflowing affection. 
               Isadora suddenly calls the attention of the party to a vessel coming up the bay 
               "How beautiful she looks!" exclaimed Isabella. "I still retain my fondness for the sea, and if the rules of the service will allow, should wish to accompany Juan on his next cruise." 
                
               "No, no," said Alberto, laughing; "Juan must turn staid and sober, like myself, and remain at home. What does he want at sea, with his fortune, and such a wife and child." 
               "Ah, but he has'nt seen his little daughter yet, you know," gaily replied Isabella. 
               "By Jove! that's a sloop-of-war coming in. See her pennant, and there go the guns saluting the fort. Done for a dollar that's Juan's vessel, and he has called in to surprise us. You know we heard from San Juan that he was now acting commander." 
               Isabella's color heightened, but she did not speak. 
               As the vessel swung to her anchor, a boat was lowered, and an officer in uniform descended from the deck of the ship into the boat, which was rapidly pulled ashore, not towards the regular landing-place in the city, but towards the country mansion. 
               This satisfied the party that it was indeed Juan, and all started off to meet him. A few yards beyond the grounds of the mansion, which extended nearly to the beach, they met the officer, who had just sprang ashore from the boat, and with hasty steps was advancing in the direction of the house. * * Yet a few moments and Isabella was smiling and weeping by turns in the arms of her husband. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               Russell got clear off on board of the sloop, and as it was by no means advisable that he should breathe the atmosphere of New-York State longer than was necessary, and as he was not so in-dissolubly bound in the bonds of friendship to Tom the sailor as to entertain any compunctions for the mishap of his scheme, and the consequent trouble he had entailed upon his late comrade in iniquity, he took advantage of a leading breeze and steered off to sea. True, the vessel was only part owned by Tom, and a few tons of valuable goods were on board, which were consigned to a merchant in Albany, which lay in quite an opposite direction to the course the sloop was now pursuing, so that, according to the recognized laws of progression, there was no great probability of their arriving at their destination in sufficient time to forestall the market. 
               There was not much difficulty in settling with the crew, who numbered but three hands, two having been captured with their captain. 
               Russell briefly addressed them, explaining how matters stood, and that it was just as well if they wished to escape the State's Prison, to get clear of the locality with as great speed as possible. This was evident enough; and as all the men in Capt. Smith's employ were participators in a greater or less degree in the frauds which were habitually practised on board the sloop, and had no great desire to have an opportunity afforded them of clearing themselves individually from the stain that attached to their characters from their suspected participation in the last outrage, they experienced no prickings of conscience when their new captain informed them that, as it would be necessary to dispose of the cargo they had on board at the first available market, all on board should go share and share in the proceeds. 
               So matters being amicably and comfortably arranged, they used their utmost efforts-spreading every inch of canvass that would draw, to urge the vessel clear of the land-and with such success, that before the news of the outrage reached New-York city, the sloop was bowling along before a six knot breeze, well out to sea, and the Highlands of Neversink loomed faintly amid the twilight in the distance. All night long the breeze continued favorable, and even increased in strength, and next morning at sunrise they judged themselves to be beyond any immediate danger of pursuit. 
               Fortunately they had abundance of provisions on board; and small as was the bark, Russell determined to steer for Pernambuco, for he was anxious to hear tidings of the Avenger. 
               In due time the vessel reached the coast, and Russell landed at Pernambuco where the vessel was bound, on board of which he had sailed from Jamaica, and he immediately set about making inquiry respecting the whereabouts of the "Avenger." His pirate lieutenant had been faithful to his trust, and he soon learnt that the vessel was then refitting in a small bay between Bahia and Pernambuco, and on writing to the officer in charge, he received a letter in reply stating that quite a brisk and profitable trade had been carried on during his absence, by kidnapping negroes and carrying them from one port to another for sale-the writer chuckling over the idea that he had sold the same negro half a dozen times over, in one instance, and three times out of the six to different agents of the same planter. For certain reasons he hinted that it would not perhaps be advisable that he should bring the vessel round to Pernambuco, and also, that it would perhaps be quite as well if she got away from the Brazils with all reasonable speed, as some suspicions regarding her proper character had begun to arise. Russell accordingly lost no time in rejoining her in the obscure port where she then laid, and in the course of a week from thence she put to sea. 
               The object of Russell now was to make a good hit, as he termed it, and to quit the nefarious profession, which had by this time rendered him very wary of making his appearance in any port on the American continent. He had not actually determined, perhaps, altogether to retire from his occupation; but he felt that it was nearly gone in American waters, and that there might be as rich or richer harvests to reap in other seas, or perhaps altogether in another manner. 
               The Avenger left the Brazils and again sailed for Russell's old cruising ground on the African coast. To this station the B-- sloop of war had sailed about a month after the intimate relations held with Russell, as narrated in a former chapter, had been brought to a sudden termination by his abrupt departure with the creole girl, and there he had since remained, occasionally going into Sierra Leone for a few days, or dropping anchor in Clarence Bay, Fernando Po; but generally keeping out to sea, and except when duty called us near the shores, free from the miasma that arises and is disseminated throughout the atmosphere from that beautiful but pestilential coast. 
               Russell, as we have mentioned, had sailed for the African coast, with the object of playing his old game of seizing and robbing the gold dust and ivory traders which coast in and out of the numerous rivers and inlets comprised within the limits of Sierra Leone and the Bight of Biaffra, and from the reports we heard on arriving at Free Town, of the unparalleled audacity and success of a piratical vessel, had already reaped a rich harvest; but he met with his match at last. His boldness had rendered the masters and owners of these vessels cautious. The proverb says-"The pitcher that goes often to the well will be broken at last;" and here, on the very cruising ground where he had commenced his career of villany-a career unsurpassed in its atrocities and excesses by many, if indeed by any who have acquired a far more notorious name in the annals of crime, was he to meet that check which was to bring his iniquitous career to miserable termination. 
               A vessel was fitted out for the Ivory Coast by a company of merchants at Sierra Leone, manned and armed in such an efficient manner as to make an effective resistance to any piratical attempt that might be made to rob her of her valuable freight. 
               She arrived at her port of destination, but, as usual, not without having been ferretted out by the keen watchfulness of Russell and his agents; for he was in league with several negro chiefs on the coast, and aided by several renegade white men, who having at different times ran away from vessels which had been on the coast, had settled among the natives, and, as is usual under such circumstances, had become several degrees more savage and brutal than the negroes themselves. 
               So soon, therefore, as the vessel had loaded her cargo, she was made the object of an attack by Russell. 
               She showed no appearance of being better manned and armed than the common run of African coasters; but just as night fell, on the day of her leaving the little bay wherein she had taken on board her gold dust and ivory, the expected "Avenger" was seen by the look-out, just emerging from the shade of a high bluff forming a promontory, thickly overgrown with shrub forest trees, behind which the pirates had been lying for a day or two previous, awaiting the appearance of the coaster. In the course of half an hour-for the vessel kept on her course, as if anxious to escape from this terrible scourge of the African seas, for the purpose of throwing the pirates off their guard, and giving rise to no suspicions among them that the coaster was any way better prepared to give them a warm reception than any ordinary trader-in the course of half an hour, we repeat, the Avenger was within musket shot of her anticipated victims. 
               "Schooner ahoy! what schooner's that?" was asked by Russell. 
               "The Dolphin, of Sierra Leone, from the Bight of Biaffra, with ivory, and bound for Sierra Leone," was the reply. 
               "Heave to, and we'll send a boat on board," replied a voice on board the brig. 
               "Who and what are you that we should heave to at your orders?" responded the captain of the schooner. 
               "Heave to, this instant, or we'll fire into you," again bawled out the spokesman on board the pirate vessel; and at the same moment a ringing report was heard, and a shot went bounding past the vessel's forefoot, dipping and rising from the water as though it were of elastic rubber instead of iron. 
               "Heave to, men," said the captain of the schooner, "and obey the instructions you have received from me. Mr. --," turning to his mate, "you are aware of my plan of teaching these fellows a lesson that they will not readily forget. Let the men be at the guns ready to give the whole broadside at six, at a moment's warning, and then wear round and give them the other before they recover from the confusion. See that no gun is fired until the boat is well within range of the swivels at the stern, and then give her the contents of both swivels at once. See, also, that the sails are in good trim for us to make off as soon as we have given the fellow his quietus, for he is too heavy, and in all probability too well manned and armed, for us to come into close quarters with him. "Now, men," he repeated, raising his voice, "I hope that every one of you will be at your post and do your duty. When we arrive at Sierra Leone, you will not lose by it." 
               While these orders had been given by the captain of the schooner, the pirates had lowered their boat and had fearlessly ranged broadside on to the schooner, and fully within the range of her guns. The boat, having on board one of Russell's officers, and being manned with some dozen armed ruffians of all countries and all colors, Spaniards, Malays, Lascars, Negroes, Englishmen, Frenchmen and Americans, was allowed to come within a few yards of the taffrail, when the word was given to fire. Bang, bang, went the six carronades in rapid succession, and at the same instant the murderous contents of the two brass swivels were fired simultaneously into the approaching boat, their sharp ring heard even amidst the roar of the heavier metal. Piercing shrieks of agony were heard, mingled with oaths and curses too gross for repetition, as the wounded, drowning wretches, battled madly with the billows red with their blood; for the boat was demolished, and every man on board of her was mortally wounded. The grape and canister, and broken pieces of iron which had composed the contents of the death-dealing implements of warfare, had well done their work; but the tragedy was not yet completed; vengeance was still in store for the Avenger. Without giving the devoted crew of the pirate time to recover from the astonishment and confusion into which they had been thrown, the schooner was put on the other tack, and the six loaded cannons nons from the opposite port-holes discharged their death-dealing contents. There was a roar as if of thunder, a cracking and a crashing as of masts and spars giving way; groans and shrieks were borne across the breeze, now laden with heavy sulphurous smoke, and then all was hushed; the smoky canopy lifted itself from the surface of the water, and the still, placid, tropic moon shed her gentle beams on the scene of mortal strife and mortal agony; and the brig which had been enveloped in obscurity, created by the sulphurous vapor, lay a helpless wreck upon the waters; the numerous victims of the Avenger had been avenged. 
               "The fellows have had enough for the present," said the captain of the schooner to his mate. "Square away the yards, and let us leave the rascals to repair damages. They will have plenty of work before them from all appearances. As to the boat's crew, I suppose they have gone to render up their last account. I do not see a vestige of the boat left; she must have sunk bodily. Well, they deserved their fate, and a fearful reckoning, if all accounts be true, they will have to render at the bar of God. So-o-belay there-that'll do; steady, my man, keep her full. North and by west half-west in the course, Mr. --, keep a sharp look-out-I am going below for an hour or two, and call me if there is any change in the weather, or if you see anything suspicious. Poor devils! I would just as soon now that some one else had taken this job in hand. It was a rather high-handed measure to take; but it could not be helped." And so saying, the honest skipper betook himself to his cabin. 
               His remarks were true enough; there had been fearful devastation on board the brig. Fifteen of the crew on board had been killed or mortally wounded, and scarcely half a dozen out of the fifty which composed the entire crew, had escaped without some slight injury. The lieutenant of the pirate vessel and all the boats' crew had perished; the murderous discharge from the swivels had penetrated through the boat's bottom, and she had sunk immediately, as the captain of the schooner had surmised, and the crew had, without exception, been so severely hurt that they were unable to make any effort to save themselves. Russell himself was uninjured, and although almost choking with impotent rage, and giving vent to blasphemies that would make one's hair stand on end to listen to, he set himself vigorously to work to repair damages, aided by such of his men as had not been disabled. 
               By dint of hard and incessant labor for twenty-four hours, the damage was repaired so far as regarded the spars; but the ruin of the sails was a serious calamity, for there was not another complete suit on board, and to repair these would be the labor of a week at least, while to venture to sea with them in their present dilapidated condition would be to place the brig at the mercy of any cruiser she might happen to fall in with. 
               "Misfortunes never come single." The day after the deed of retribution had been dealt to the unfortunate Avenger, the Dolphin fell in with the sloop-of-war we were on board of, and her captain came on board and reported to the commander a statement of the particulars of the preceding day's work, also stating that, so far as he believed, the vessel was in such a crippled condition that she would become an easy prize. 
               This was great news to us. We needed excitement of any kind, and the pirate was, as has been already reported, notorious for the mischief she had done in the African waters. 
               Her whereabouts was easily discoverable, and having congratulated the captain of the schooner on the success of his ruse, we immediately went in pursuit. We reached the spot designated by the merchant captain, and immediately made search among the inlets for the crippled vessel. 
               Russell had seen us in the offing. He had run his brig into the nearest creek in order to effect the necessary repairs, and all the available hands were busy repairing sails. He knew that to be caught in a trap in the creek would be fatal, and although aware that with his torn sails, he stood little chance of escape at sea, notwithstanding the unsurpassed swiftness of his craft, with her sails and rigging in such a wretched condition, he determined to risk the only chance of escape that was left. The sails which had been unbent to be repaired, were hastily rebent to the yards, and as soon as the dark came on, Russell endeavored to creep out from his hiding-place, unobserved, if possible, and to stand out at once to sea. As yet we had not discovered his hiding-place, though he had seen us, and knew discovery was eventually inevitable if he remained where he was. 
               He had reckoned without his host in endeavoring to get clear of the land in the obscurity. The brig was observed by the look-out when about a league from the land, and perhaps half that distance from the man-of-war, and chase was immediately given. 
               It was astonishing to see, how well the little craft behaved, despite the severe knocking about she had received, and the ill-conditioned state of her top-hamper. The chase was long, and every means that nautical skill, fertility of expedient, and rapidity of execution could supply, were put in force by the pirates to evade capture-but it was useless. The brig sailed like a witch, with all her disadvantages; but the sloop of war was also a rapid sailer, and although under more favorable circumstances the brig could have outsailed us, she was not a match for us now. After a chase of eight hours, we came close enough to bring our guns to bear upon her, and we fired, but it was of no avail. Bring to her captain would not, and still for another hour the chase continued, our stern chaser being fired at every opportunity, often hitting, but as often missing the brig. 
               At the end of another hour we were within hail, and the commander shouted to the captain of the brig to "heave to," or he would send a broadside into her and sink her. 
               Game to the last! The only response was two guns fired in rapid succession, the shot from the last of which, killed one of the quarter-masters of the sloop of war. 
               "It's of no use dilly-dallying any longer," said the captain of our vessel; "give her a shot, and bring her to at all hazards." 
               A gun, well shotted, was fired low, between wind and water, and in a few minutes the vessel gave signs of settling down. "Quick, lower the cutters, and board her," shouted the captain, and in a few minutes the boats were manned. 
               The pirates seemed to have given up all hope at last, and made no further resistance. We were on board one of the cutters ourselves and were among those who boarded the brig. Her decks presented a horrible spectacle, strewed as they were with the dead and dying, and covered with blood. Our stern chaser had made fearful havoc. The few men still able to stand, were almost dead from exhaustion, and seemed to be perfectly bewildered. There was no time to lose: the Avenger was settling fast. 
               "Where is your captain?" asked an officer of one of the men. 
               He pointed to a prostrate form covered with blood that was stretched near the gangway. The officer stooped and felt his pulse; he was still breathing, but perfectly insensible. A splinter had struck his temple, and his features were covered with gore. He and the other survivors were carried on board the sloop-of-war, and in half an hour the Avenger sunk to the bottom of those depths which concealed so many murders committed by her crew. 
               The wounds of the prisoners were cleansed and dressed by the surgeon of the sloop-of-war, who in the course of an hour entered the ward-room where we were seated, discussing the events of the previous twenty-four hours. 
               "Who do you think I have recognized in the captain of the slaver?" said he, addressing us generally. 
               We replied, "We could not say." 
               "Who, then, but Don Felix, of Port Royal celebrity," he replied. 
                
               Various exclamations of surprise followed. 
               "Is he mortally wounded?" said one. 
               "I fear so," responded the doctor. "He may recover, but it is very, very doubtful." 
               "Well, who'd have thought of meeting our gallant comarado of Kingston and Port Royal in this guise?" said another officer. 
               "I should just have imagined such a thing," replied a master's mate, who was famous for his penetration, but who always expressed his opinions after they had been, according to his own account, fulfilled. "I should just have imagined such a meeting." 
               "Your imagination is a long while coming to conclusions," said a pert young mid to the boasting mate, with a sarcastic smile on his face. 
               "Eight bells, gentlemen; the watch is called," said the steward, putting his woolly head in at the door, and we of the watch below ascended to the deck. It was 4 o'clock, and daylight was just dawning. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               For some days Russell remained perfectly insensible, and the doctor pronounced it impossible that he could recover, although he might linger for a week or two, and even recover so far as to regain consciousness. He had evidently been struck by a large splinter which had inflicted a frightful wound on the left temple, laying bare the flesh to the bone on the entire left side of the face, and severely fracturing the skull; a quarter of an inch nearer the temple and the wound must have proved immediately fatal. In addition to this he had been wounded in the left leg, the small bone of which was broken. 
               The extraordinary severity and the unusually prolonged duration of the storm had sufficed to beget feelings of superstition among the sailors. We had no chaplain on board, having lost the regular chaplain of the ship, by fever, at Sierra Leone, some three months before; so having neither parson nor woman, nor even a tom-cat, to lay the blame upon, or to sacrifice in order to appease the demon of the storm, they began to seek out some other reason for the extraordinary severe weather. As I passed the quarter deck, I heard whisperings and mutterings of "a Jonah on board," and such like expressions, and heard enough to satisfy me that the pirate captain was the person to whom they alluded. Although I heard suppressed mutterings of "throw him overboard," I knew no harm would come of it, and was musing upon the strange superstitions of seamen, when the quarter-master, who was clinging to a rope lashed to a belaying pin near me, and was taking a marine's trot backwards and forwards the length of its tether, suddenly stayed his exercise and cried out-"Look there, sir-Good Lord! Look there, what's that?" and the man appeared perfectly paralyzed with terror. 
               In truth, the object at which he pointed was frightful enough. A succession of the fierce flashes of blue lightning already described gave an awfully supernatural, wizard-like appearance to the scene, which, in spite of the awe it inspired, had really a dramatic effect, could one's nerves have been sufficiently composed amidst its terrors to compare it to an imitation of mere art. 
               Emerging from the hatchway was seen a tall, ghastly figure, clothed in white from head to foot; for a moment it stood gazing upwards, perfectly motionless, while a vivid flash of lightning lit up the wan features, and showed blood to be running from the ears and nostrils, and dripping upon the white garment. All the men stood aghast with horror. The figure threw up its arms, and yelling forth some unearthly cry, rushed madly to the gangway, and sprang over the side. 
               "It is the pirate captain!" I said. 
               "Don Felix! Don Felix!" was repeated by twenty voices at once, as the truth flashed upon them. Several, and I among others, staggered to the gangway; the white dress was distinctly visible, floating amidst the black "hell of waters." Suddenly it sunk-a flash of lightning, a heavy clap of thunder-marked the disappearance of the body beneath the waters, and the howling gale shrieked forth the requiem of the maniac suicide. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               In the preceding chapter of this history, we have woven a tale from such facts as have come to our knowledge respecting the events of our hero's life during a period of three years, with several retrospective glances into his earlier career. We have depicted him in the blaze of his triumphs, have related his successes and mishaps, and have seen the judgment of the Almighty falling upon the conscience-seared criminal, and have followed his strange adventures and eventful course until we have witnessed its termination in disease, insanity, and self-destruction.-We have depicted his career in colors so vivid as to need no heightening, and we have told his sad and desperate end plainly and truthfully, and in such a manner as to show that not only after death are the evil deeds of the transgressor punished, but that oftentimes he meets with retribution on this side of eternity. 
               It now only remains for us to bring our many weeks labors to a termination, by summing up in general terms the position of events, and the circumstances of the various actors in this drama of "life's history." 
               To commence then with Isabella and Isadora, who, next to Russell, have been the most prominent characters introduced in our story, we can only say that Juan de Salavero-Spanish in name, but American in birth, and partly so by parentage-at the earnest request of his brother Alberto and his wife, resigned the command of his vessel, and that the two brothers passed their time, and found abundant occupation, in taking care of the large property they possessed in Cuba, and in the tuition of the young Jose, who was adopted by both families as a son, and who stood the chance, between the two women, of being utterly spoiled; for although naturally of a good disposition, he possessed all the impetuosity and nervous temperament which had proved so fatal to the welfare of his maternal parent, and been so fatal to the happiness, temporal and eternal, of his unhappy father. 
               Both of these ladies were exceedingly well-adapted to the peculiar temper and disposition of their respective husbands; Isadore's more quiet disposition was well suited to the more studious Alberto, while the gaiety and energy of Isabella was the very thing to render her attractive in the eyes of her sailor husband. So we for the present bid them adieu. We have seen them in poverty boldly encountering hardships that few of their sex would have dared to face; we have seen them in sorrow and mourning, and we have seen them in their hours of gladness, and in all we have found them worthy of our esteem. These ladies are still with their husbands resident in Cuba; and those who are fortunate enough, when visiting that lovely island, to get invitations to the balls and soires given by the best society in. Havana, must often meet with them, and may have received a special invitation to their manslon. 
               Retribution does not always follow the committal of deeds of evil in this world, or Don Jose de Silva would not be honored and respected as he is by the aristocracy of the Green City of the Antilles. We have shown in the course of our story, that Don Jose was a calm, cool, calculating villain, who had grown old and gray in the secret perpetration of crimes, which, had they been committed openly instead of secretly, and had he been poor instead of rich, would have consigned him to the dungeons of the Moro Castle, and perhaps to the garrote. 
               But Don Jose is growing old and feeble, and the grave yawns for him; he would give a fortune to stay the advance of the grave king of terrors, but in vain, and if Don Jose has escaped retribution on earth, the time cannot be far distant when he will be called to render an account count of his misdeeds before a judgment court where wealth and earthly power are of no avail, but where he will be judged by his deeds and reward or punishment accordingly be meted out to him; and there a heavy retribution awaits him.-But we leave the hoary old sinner to himself and his end, when it shall arrive, and turn to bid farewell to some of the other characters who have figured in our story. 
               Little Jose, the son of the unfortunate Inez and of Russell, must claim a little of our attention. He had ever been a delicate although a lively child, but he had shown no symptoms of ill health until some few months after the death of his mother. The first symptoms of disease were then attributed to his grief for the loss of his parent; but his guardians, for the affection they bore the child, as well as for the sake of his mother, were perhaps more careful of him than if he had been a child of their own, and for some months he showed prospects of complete restoration to health. 
               But their hopes were vain-the fiat had gone forth. Perhaps the mother called the child from the tomb; for, strange! as he day by day pined away, he would secretly visit the lonely spot, and there linger for hours, resting on the flowery turf beneath which rested the earthly remains of the only parent he had known, and waiting there until the shades of evening approached, and his friends became alarmed on account of his absence. 
               And still he grew weaker and weaker; and now he could not be carried to his favorite resting-place, but, at rare intervals, when the weather was particularly favorable, or when the insidious and deceitful disease which was bringing him to the tomb, relaxed its severity, and, as is often the case in consumptive patients, he for weeks showed symptoms of better health; all, however, being but the forerunners of a still more dangerous relapse, until at length he could not go at all. He was confined to his bed, which was, however, still daily wneeled to the open window of his room, which looked out upon the much-cherished, the almost hallowed spot. And now the child was dead. He had died with a smile upon his lips, calling, with his last faint whispers, on the name of his mother. Now may be laid aside the books and playthings-all the little tokens of childhood's presence. Lay them carefully aside, and treasure them; for each broken toy, and torn book, and defaced picture, possesses now a value that was heretofore unattached to it. Cut off that lock of dark, curling hair that twines so negligently, yet so beautiful about the face, as though embracing the pale, motionless features it so lately adorned. It is no sacrilege to cut it off now, for soon the body must be given up to corruption, and become food for worms; and 'twere a shame these beauteous locks should be consigned to the tomb, when they will serve as such precious memorials to those left behind. Lay the child in his coffin, and close the eyes that but a short time since beamed with such depth and earnestness of expression. Those eyes have lost their lustre now-that little hand is pale and cold, that was wont to nestle in your own, or to pat your cheek, or to rest upon your shoulder, as the arm was twined around your neck; and now, bear the body to the grave. Ashes to ashes-dust to dust. Every clod, as its hollow sound re-echoes from the bowels of the earth, when it strikes upon the coffin, seems to fall upon the hearts of the mourners. Every smothered sound, as it falls lighter and lighter as the grave rapidly fills up, says, in solemn tones-Gone, gone! forever gone! And now the grave is filled up. Lay the turf gently upon it, and plant flowers, that they may bloom side by side with those that bloom on the grave of the mother whose spirit the child's has gone to join in heaven, there to remain in bliss unspeakable forever-to know sorrow and parting no more. 
               Home-home! how desolate home is now! There is no longer heard the light hearted laugh of the late idol of the household; that voice is forever hushed in the silence of the grave! How each treasured toy, each article of wearing apparel, each little childish plaything that was once though valueless, nay, burden some, now seems to tell each in its own way, some trait of the departed one. How deserted now seems the household! for even in his long and painful sickness, he was an object to care for and to love still deeper as the time drew near when he was to be released from his sufferings. Alas! that care is no longer needed-that love can only be lavished upon his memory, until time, the soother of all grief, assuages the first keen pangs, and his image is only occasionally called to mind among those of others who have earlier or later gone to the same resistless bourne. Isabella and Isadora grieved bitterly on the death of little Jose. While he was with them, there was an earthly tie which bound them to their ismented and beloved friend and companion, Inez de Hibera. When Jose died, that last link which united the living and the dead was severed, and fond memory alone remained to remind them of the friend they had lost. 
               It was about three months after the death of Jose, that Don Juan, as he was called in Cuba, was reading to his wife a New-York newspaper which had just been received by one of the steamers. While thus engaged he came across a paragraph headed: "News from the coast of Africa," in which was the full details of the capture of a pirate vessel on the coast of Guinea, and the subsequent suicide, by leaping overboard from a sloop-of-war, during a terrific gale off the Cape of Good Hope, of her wounded and dying captain, while laboring under aberration of mind superinduced by disease; the name of the pirate chief who had met with such an awful end was said to be Don Felix de Carvalhas, although he went by various other appellations. 
               "Good God! How strange!" said Isabella, suddenly starting, and turning pale. 
               "Why! what ails you, 'Bella?" said her husband, as he gazed with astonishment at the perturbation of his wife. 
               "Juan," she replied, "Don Felix, as he is termed, is one whose history I have told you, and whom I unfortunately know too well. He was the father of poor little Jose; and- 
               "Stay, dear Isabella," said her husband, "all this I knew or surmised as I read the article; but why it should so affect you, who are not wont to display silly exhibitions of feeling, I cannot understand; my opinion is, that such a wretch is well removed from the world, any way or any how, as we would hunt down a dangerous reptile; and as to the manner of his death-any death is too good for him." 
               "It is not that", replied Isabella; "but read again the date of the occurrence." 
               Don Juan read the date. For a few moments Isabella sat musing, and then rose from her seat and opened an escritoire that stood near, from which she drew a small folded paper. She then resumed her seat, holding the paper in her hand. 
               "What mysterious thing is about to happen now, 'Bella?" said Juan, smiling at the importance assumed by his wife. 
               "Poor little Jose," she said, "died on the day following the awful death of his father. You will think me silly, Juan; but here in my hand I hold a record of facts which I never disclosed to any one, because I thought myself that I was foolish in placing any importance upon them; nevertheless, they so impressed me at the time that I noted them down, and here they are. You recollect on the night before the dear little boy's death, how restless he was-we little thought his end was so near; and that I arose from my bed to sit by him about midnight. He was talking wildly to himself, and his remarks were more than usually incoherent, so much so that I at times became seriously alarmed, and was on the point of calling for assistance; but thought it was perhaps simply the effects of the fever that was devouring him, and I contended myself with moistening his brow and wiping his lips. At times, however, his features assumed so anxious and fearful an appearance that I became myself almost frightened; wards morning he fell into a dose from which he awoke much relieved, and perfectly sensible. He immediately recognised me, and entered into a lively conversation, poor little fellow, as cheerful as though he were in perfect health. 
               "'I have had a strange dream, dear Isabella,' he said. 'Shall I tell it to you?' 
               "'Yes, Jose,' I replied, 'tell me what you please, dear. I shall be glad to listen.' 
               "'First, I must ask you, was that man who took me away on board the ship my father? He said so, but dear mama never told me so.' 
               "I scarcely knew what to reply. I could not tell the child a falsehood when he was on the very verge of eternity. I could not let the last conversation I had with him on earth be one of false-hood, and I answered 'Yes.' Still I dared not tell the dying child his father was one that he should be ashamed to own.- 
               "'Then," he replied, 'my father is dead. He died last night. He was drowned in a fearful storm, far, far away from here. I saw him spring over the side, dressed in white, and there was blood trickling down his face and down his clothes, and a great many men looked after him, as he floated past in the black water; and just as he sank he called on me by name to come to him, and told me I was his child-he was my father. I was frightened, and refused to go, but I could not help myself, and I was drawn nearer and nearer to the black water, and I called on mama. And then I saw her, clothed in such bright garments, and she smiled such a pleasant smile as I seldom saw upon her face, and bid me stay yet a little while, as I tried to reach her, and soon she would call me, and I should be happy with her forever. She bid me sleep; and I then slept quietly until I awoke and found you sitting beside me; but mama said she would call me soon, and I think it will be to-day.' So saying, he again fell asleep, and so he died, only a few hours afterwards, with an almost angelic smile upon his lips, and his little hands raised as he whispered 'Mother with his last dying breath. Is this not a strange coincidence, Juan?" 
               "It is," replied her husband. "It is one of those mysterious cases of second sight which admit of no explanation; but put on your hat, dear, and let us drive out; the evening is cool, and I see my reading has made you low-spirited.' 
               Of the other characters that have figured in our story, we have nothing to say further than that to the best of our knowledge, those whose death has not been already mentioned are still living; and though we are acquainted with some of them, we on no occasion have ever heard any allusion made to Russell's name. 
               On the death of Jose, according to his mother's will, the entire property fell to Isabella and Isadora, and they are among the wealthiest families on the Island of Cuba; but allusion is seldom made by them even in private, to the Pirate Doctor. 
               All allusions to him call up associations and feelings they would willingly forget forever. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
