
    ----CITATION----
        Goldsmith, Christabel.. Brazen Gates .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7811
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Brazen gates 
            
               JULIE P.        SMITH. WIDOW GOLDSMTH'S DAUGHTER.  THE WIDOWER. THE MARRIED BELL. (rn Preparaton. )  The novels by this author are of unusual merit, uncoxa monly well-writtn, clever, and characterized by great wit and vivacity. They are growing popular and more popular every day." All published uniform with this volume, at 1l.7S, and sent f2ree by mail, on receipt of price BY G. W. CARLETON &     CO., Publishers, New York. =.-5ME WIDO*WER.:   ago im         % LOW.=    . -  De . *  d    b  t'   ' *   - IN THE GARDEN AT' RAGEN'ELS. ,A CH'ISTABEL GOLDSMTH,  AND PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR OF :'WXIDOW  GOLDSMTH'S DAUGHTER ." "O flowers That never, will in other climates grow, My early visitation and my last At even, which I bred up with tender hand From the first opening bud, and gave ye names I MILTON'S "PARADISE L'OST.'.  NEW  YORK: G. I. Carleton     Co., Publishers. LONDON: S. LOW & CO.  /M DCCOo T X I l.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by G. W. CARLETON & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.  Stereotyped at the' WOMEN'S PRINTING HOUSE, Corner Avenue A and Eighth Street, Now York.    TO CARLOTTA, JULIE, and HENRY, THE BELOVED TRIO OF THE RED COTTAGE, CHRISTABEL GOLDSMTH , AYFREOTIONATELY DEDICATES THS BOOK.   PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR OF "WIDOW GOLDSMTH'S DAUGHTER." IT might have been a wedding or a christeningwhich so hospitably lighted Brookside,: that long avenues of  golden brilliance slanted from each window, and kin- dled with ruddy shine the sparkling crust of the snow, beneath which slept the summer flowers. It might have been--but it was neither. Christa- bel's new book had-come, and her best and dearest were gathered in Fred's great library th hear it read by Mr. Growing.  I said her best and dearest; but some were want- ing; there are always some wanting; no circle is quite complete. Chandos and Bertha. were abroad, Sabrina and her widower in Brazil, and dear old uncle Alec a wanderer again. But Zoe was there, with sturdy Peter; George Blair and his duck-and little Pigeon; and Pauline and Dick and Gracie and Biddy Flan- nigan, and Jan Vedder came proudly with his Irish wife upon his arm, who stepped in her brisk, positive   viii        PEFA CE. fashion, up to "her white angel," her fresh-colored, handsome face glowing with joyous expectancy. Mr. Lankman and Mrs. Lankman, of the Millville Universe, were also among the guests; and the straight-  backed Pole was the -first to break the stillness when the fate of the "Heaven-eyed Gentian, sorrowfully weeping alone, deserted by the merry flowers," was pro- nounced by the reader. "We mean to be an independent critic," said he. "This thing seems to us rather breezy--grappling no great problems." "And bearing the ineffaceable stamp-" Mrs. Lankman's regulation chime was rather cut in upon by Peace Pelican, who exclaimed impatiently- ("Do pray originate something new, Madam-' the ineffaceable' is getting a trifle tiresome. Your story is sweet and fresh, Chris; and as delightsome as a summer-garden. I thank you for it." "I vum, that's so," said Captain Slocum; ' I'd a gin- the world'to a had my poor Sunny hear it." Dulcet turned her head quickly; it was as if a rustle -of wings had swept past her; and she saw a sedate little face looking with calm, happy eyes into her's, so that her own filled with tears. "Law! how folks can!" spoke up old Miss Petingil, who had ambled in, attracted by the festive look of the ,  .            .   PREFACE.          .ix old place; and walking by faith concerning the good things likely to be offered to comfort the inner woman. "Desput queer, to contrive up girls and such, out of a passel of flowers. I can't seem to make head nor tail on't; can you, Leonore?" . Otho's daughter, who was leaning her face upon her  father's knee, intently drinking in her mother's smiles, shook off a snuffy touch, whose contact annoyed her, and answered, "I want to think about Mammals people, they are so nice." Pauline came and knelt before her beloved racon- iteyr, and seized impulsively her idle hands. "I must have an Almanazar for myself and one for Gracie," said she with-flashing eyes. "Wilt thou also have one for thyself, Peace?" asked Mr. Haythorne. Miss Pelican looked at the young scholar, caressing his beard with his white hand, and his teasing manner provoked her.  She noticed, likewise, her dear friend, Mary McOross, who sat apart with downcast counte- nance, and she replied disdainfully: - No--it vill not suit me ' To still keep on a smiling face, And look as meek as milk,' -to please any man." ^-*.,    x         PREFACE. While the children chattered, and the grown ones talked, following the lives she had pictured, showing their full delight -in her creations, our dear Chris re- mained quite still, thinking, and this was the tenor of her thought. Since my best and dearest value my work, and find inspiration and enjoyment in it, I can afford to be content with scant praise. Now, allso, I find that my little preface can only be comprehended by those who have lived among our good Roaring River people.' It is the old story, dear readers--"Those whom we- love and who love :us"--ye are the chosen ones, whom Chris and I love to please. JULIE P. SMTH.    BRAZE:N- GATES. CHX A PTERb I. "The beautiful garland will pale before too many dark flowers. A flame-bright lily might fitly be blended with it.'"--L MoT IT happened, one night, a very long time ago, that a wood-cutter's wife bore him  two children. After the birth of the babes, when it was seen that their mother could not live, she rallied all her strength and Bade her husband bring them to her bedside, that she might take one look at the little beings in whose veins flowed the divided current of her life. As. she fell back upon her pillow, two great tears rolled down her checks. "Dear husband," * she said, "I fear I may not stay longer with thee here on earth. But the good God will have pity; thou shalt not be left alone in thy new-found care..   BRAZEN GATES.  She was silent for awhile, but soon a heavenly amile passed over her face, and she murmured softly to herself the words of the tender -Iebrew  singer: "Very pleasant hast thou been to me, my brother Jonathan; thy love to me was wonder- ful, passing the love of women." "Dearest," she said, the light suddenly'flashing into her eyes, "let us call our babes David and Jonathan." Then the brightness faded out of those tender orbs, and, when sleep drew their white curtains over them, God gently unlocked the door, and, unknown, the spirit passed out from its familiar home. -When the simple folk around were assembled at the funeral, the father brought his two chil- dren to the coffin, and there the good priest bap- tized them as their mother had wished. As time flew on, they learned to patter up and down on their unsteady feet; and then the grim little house in the lonely clearing echoed with the oft-repeated names, made soft by silver laughter and childish lips. "Come quick, and help me, sister Davie!" "Wait a bit, Johnnie dear; I am coming very soon." One day, as they were sitting on the door-stone,   BRAZEN GATES.   13   they heard the noise of a horse cantering through the forest. The sound came nearer, and pres- ently a young lad rode up to the cottage. "Good morrow, fair maidens," said he, doffing, as he spoke, his plumed cap. "Will you give me a drink of water, and something to eat I I have ridden far to-day, and am both hungry and athirst." "If thou wilt be content with ripe peaches; thy wants are easily satisfied. As for water, the spring runs at thy feet, and the cup lies on the bank." So said yellow-haired, blue-eyed Johnnie, who always spoke first; but Davie ran into the house to get the fruit for the stranger. "Why dost thou not go, too?" quoth the boy to Jolmnie. "Because I will not," she answered; for?e would always rather say "No)" than "Yes., ii' choose to remain here with thee." "Ah!" said he, smTling, " wouldst thou notkbe pleased to stay with me always, pretty maiden?" "No, I would not," she replied, dancing about on the tips of her little bare toes, while the sun- light glistened on her yellow hair. "I would never leave Davie, not for all the boys in the world." However, she smiled "Yes" at him over her shoulder.     BRAZEN GATES. "Wilt thou not give me to drink from the spring?" asked he. "Go, get the water for thyself." "Who will' hold my horse the while?" re- turned the knightly child, glancing down at his mettlesome steed. "That will I; and I will ride him also," an- swered Johnnie; for, though she had never been on horseback in all her short life, she would have liked right well to hold the gold-studded reins in her little brown fingers. "No, indeed! thou art too young to take such a place," laughed the stranger. aBut give me some water."' "Too young!" quoth Johnnie, angrily. "Then thou wilt get nothing to drink from me-not if thou shouldst bring me fifty steeds, every one as beautiful as this of thine." So saying, she threw the cup into the spring, while the lad laughed: all the more. Davie now came back, bringing the peaches, and a pitcher, whichshe filled from the brook. In return, the stranger gave her a purse with not a few gold pieces shining through its meshes; but her pale face, shaded by long black hair, and sol- emnly lighted by -her wonderfully large gray eyes, had no beauty for him. He turned gladly to Johnnie:   BRAZEN GATES.   15   Henceforth the brook shall not be the only mirror of thy face, pretty water-maid.  Say, wouldst thou not like to have other 'blossoms as fair as thyself?" "Rather, a hedge to hide me from such saucy lads as thou," answered she; but she took the seeds he offered her none the less. He turned his horse about and rode away, and the sisters watched him till he disappeared from view. Then Johnnie said: "Thou wilt help me plant . the seeds, Davie We will share whatever comes lip.  "Right gladly," answered the little maiden. Very wonderful seeds they were. As Johnnie turned them over in her small palm, some looked like the branched antlers of the forest deer; some like tiny hunting-horns, and ducal crowns, and cornucopias'; and some were quite round, like gold pieces. When they were sown, they made a row that reached all around the wee clearing; only the cottage, which stood in a recess of the forest, was outside. At last the work was done, and the sisters joined hands and danced about the planting, sing- ing the while some old rhymes that their father had taught them. First, Johnnie shook back her  16      :  BRIAZEN  GATES. yellow- hair, and, keeping time with her feet, began: "Little seeds so quaint and queer, Covered softly in the ground, Laid where shadows disappear, And the sunbeams dance around; Waken in your quiet bed, When the morning sun is red." Singing thus, she made her white feet to tread the ground so swiftly that they seemed like the warm heat-lightning that shines on the margin of a dark cloud. Then Davie sang: "Little seeds, so golden brown, When the sun has fled away, And the gentle dew comes down; When the silver moonbeams play, Prom the warm, dark earth, arise, Open then your lustrous eyes?' It seemed to the children, for a moment, as if they saw  the earth move above their seedlets; but soon they grew tired of watching for what came not, and went back to the door-stone. They always had playmates enough.     There were sleepy flies buzzing over the spring, and in' and out among the shadows; little fishes in the brooks, and red and gray squirrels running   BRAZEN GATES.      -7 about the tall forest-trees. Sometimes Johnnie laid snares for the squirrels, though they never were caught; but if Davie proposed to fish for the trout in the spring, she failed not to answer, "No; we will not, dear sister. Let us rather feed- them, that they may grow tame, and come at our call." Indeed, they were as tame as this already. At night, when the father came home, he was wont to teach the children out of the horn-book, pointing the place with his hand made hard by labor. All the while, two little red forefingers followed in the track of learning. On the morning after the stranger's visit, the seeds-were up, and the sisters asked their father to go out and see their garden. u These are not flowers!" he cried, when he saw the plants; " they are trees. To-morrow I must take my axe, and cut them down."  Then the children wept bitterly, but he was not to be moved. The next day he essayed to hew down the trees, but they had grown so much during the night, it was not possible, He only spoiled his axe upon them, for the wood was as hard as iron itself. When he had spoiled five axes he had no money to buy more, so - he was compelled to desist from his efforts. Now they were all in danger of starving, for                    ..  18      BRA ZEN GATES. the wood-cutter could no longer ply his trade, and he had no other way to gain a living. Then Davie brought out her purse. lWhen she turned the gold pieces into her hand, she found among them a coin set with a clear jewel in the centre. This and the purse she kept; the .rest she gave to her father. Before a week passed, the hedge was so f f grown, that none could enter its leafy For were any found strong enough to clij tall trees that formed it, the thorn/i--7 branches made the undertaking ho: even the father ever saw the gar fully-protected; but the chi      and out as th-eypshed,for a      e the desired to enb   '     would re- turn, it stepped         them place. Inside the hedge gi'rewha-:mr of pleasant fruits and flowers, and threes were full of sing- ing-birds and gaudy paroquets. The sisters used to bring of the fruit to their father, and sometimes, when they entered the charmed shades, they found the garments that' they needed on the grass, and sometimes beatti- ful stones-scarlet, blue, and purple, for Davie; lilac, soft pink, and yellow, for Johnnie, with the shell-tinted cheeks. Davie loved to gaze whole nights at the stars   BRAZEN GATES.       - 19 through her wonderful stone. By its means the most distant planets were made visible. She used to beg Johnnie to look through it also; but that thoughtless maiden always answered, "o, I will not; " and if, by accident, she could be induced to .wrinkle up her little nose in a vain attempt to e see the wonders that Davie told of, she protested that only lords and; ladies and gay esquires rode before her vision. Then would she dance into  garden to eat oranges and play with the squirrels, with all the- more delight in that she had so much teased her dreamy sister. All day long Davie wandered in the forest, with her jewel' in her hand.   She knew the history of every flower, and why the birds quarrelled in their nests. It was Davie who reconciled the scolding Wrens, and  comforted into silence the lonely Whippoorwill, who grieved nightly in the garden. And she it was who gathered up the petals of the poor, forsaken Wind-Flower, and listened to her sad story as yellow-throated Adder's Tongue re- lated it.. Indeed, that disagreeable old lady was the scandal-monger of the whole forest. Everything took its own true form beneath the wonderful glass;  for better or for worse, all :shared the  same fate.  Only two things were unaltered by the truth-stone: the shallow brook close by the house, and Johnnie's childish soul-   20      BRAZEN GATES. alike transparent and secretless. But Davie found her best-loved study in her father. When she turned the jewel toward him, she saw straight through the hard, rough outside, and his noble heart lay revealed, so full of love and care for his children, that therein was no room for any meaner passion. As she thought of this, she would for- get the stone, and, going into the garden, bring from thence flowers and fruit to gladden him on his return. Johnnie, seeing her so employed, used to pluck cactus-blossoms and thorny rose- buds, for she delighted to prick his ears there- with, and tease away his sleep, as he dozed wearily in his chair after the hard day's work. But Time cut the life of the brave old man, even as he was wont to hew down the stately trees. Soon after the growth of the wonderful hedge, the neighbors dug a grave for him close by the door-stone. 'When he was laid therein, Davie and Johnnie covered him with fragrant cedar-branches, and then, embracing, they kissed one another, and Davie said: "We have now no father but God, and beside ourselves there is none to love and care for us. We must comfort each other, Johnnie, darling. We cannot be lonely if we are not cold to one another." Johnnie answered, through her tears: ,   BRAZEN GATES.       21 "No, indeed! I will never cease to love thee, dear sister. How could I?" So saying, the two went into the garden, and, after the tree had stepped into its place behind them, the world without saw them no more for many years.   CHAPTER II. "What does little birdie say, In her nest, at peep of -day? o' Let me fly,' says little birdie; (Mother, let me fly away.'" TENNYSON. ITIIIN the charmed retreat had suddenly arisen a little red cottage. In it were two rooms, and in each a tiny white bed with, fair linen thereon. Besides this, there were two little cups and two little dishes, and two little towels to wipe two tear-stained faces upon.   So the sisters dwelt very peacefully in the garden, until they grewt beyond childhood. One day, however, as they wandered in the shade, a new plant raised its head at their feet. It waS a tree, and, even while they gazed, its slen- der top disappeared in the clouds. Yes; where, an instant before, the dainty turf had spread -its green carpet, the mighty trunk now    upreared itself, casting a black shadow over the astonished pair.   *v -    '  -  // BRAZEN   GATES.      23 When  the; maidens looked dow n upon-the ground, there  lay on the grass a staff, some gloves, and two tiny pairs of shoes. Now, for a long time Davie had ardently de- sired to explore the fleecy clouds she loved to watch, so -well. Of late, too, *whenever Johnnie had looked through the truth-stone, she had seen the beautiful chestnut-haired youth who brought her the seeds, and he had nodded, and beckoned her to follow. Therefore the garden was no longer lovely to those dwelling there; and when the- sisters had fitted on the shoes, they stood silently at the foot of the tree, each waiting for the other to speak the thoutght that lay equally in the hearts of both. At length Davie said, slowly, as if .against her will: "I must climb this tree; it is useless to strug- gle against the impulse that drags me upward. Say, Johnnie, my darling, wilt thou not come with me 2  "Io, indeed!"  quoth  Johnnie, wilfully. 'Much rather had Is follow the course of the- spring here. Perhaps it will lead me to the fair young knight I love so well." Then Davie knew the time for iparting had come; and as, long ago, the sisters had embraced f    24  :   - BRAZEN GATES. beside the new-made grave, so now each pressed one last kiss upon the other's rosy mouth. Then Davie said, tearfully: "Thou wilt never forget me, my loved one a When thou hast found the stranger-knight, thou wilt not fail to return hither, that I may know of thy happiness?" "No, no," answered Johnnie, merrily; "I will not forget. See rather that thou art not so much wedded to this strange, hateful tree, as to refuse, for its sake, a handsome youth, should any such present himself." So saying, she took the staff and the purse that Davie offered her, and went joyfully on her way. But the one she had left watched the dear  ; figure till the hedge closed behind her retreating form, and then turned sorrowfully to begin the ascent. As she climbed steadily on, two figures ever seemed to flutter before her, high among the branches. Oft Davie caught glimpses of theni; but, as she gazed steadfastly upward, she could not, after all, discern whether they were indeed flesh and blood, or only a black shadow made more black by the near presence of a shining white sunbeam. At last they paused, and the listening maid caught their words, as they held eager dispute among the great leaves:   BA AZEN  AT G S.       25 "Ha!"   quoth the dark   figure, "thou hast spokenw well; but I will not yield. Since thou hast been foolish enough to let thy little ones out of the safe, charmed garden, they will have to suffer, for thy wishes will by no means come to pass. I will give thee a new riddle to read to thy sorrow:  "' Staff and coin and purse are mine; By force or craft they shall be won: Though thy flowery wreath may twine, Soon 'twill fade when these are gone.'" But the bright-robed one made quiet answer: "Though the maids weep bitterly, Though the flowerets drooping be, Though the magic gear be gone, Though the youths do ride alone, Yet my power thou most shalt see, When the gifts return to thee." As   she moved  tranquilly aside, Davie caught sight of her face, and  gave a joyful cry, feeling sure that she  beheld her mother. Instantly the vision melted away; but ever, as the maid strug- gled upward, the   mysterious rhymes sounded in her ears. When night came, the little red house lay far below,   and she heard faintly the voice of the nightingale as he warbled in the garden. The 2                i   26        BRAZ7PtN  GATES. shoes were quite worn out, and her tender hands were blistered through the -tattered gloves. Thoughts  of Johnnie  on  her weary journey crowded the sister's mind, and the memory of the dear mother, loved though unknown, came fresh upon her. She stood still to wipe the hot tears from her eyes, and choke back the sobs that shook her slender frame. ' The Lord, who comfort brings, Guardeth thee;. Therefore lose not thy courage Too lightly. Of Him the mavis at sunrise sings; He paints the down on the butterfly's wings; And if He cares for little things, Will He not think of thee? He hung upon a tree, And there for Him the way Heavenward lay. Will He not be with thee, When toilsomely Thou climbest, day by day, From morn till evening gray, His home to see?" Davie thought she heard this little song borne softly toward her on the wind; and, even as she turned again to begin again her hard ascent, she said to herself, "Mine be the strength to bear the sorrow, and I will not lose courage."    BRA ZWR GATES.       27 Now the music approached, till it appeared to be very near, and she saw presently that :it pro- ceeded from a house built on one of the broad leaves of the tree. Through the -half-open win- dow she fancied she beheld her mother, looking earnestly toward her. The figure beckoned with its hand, as if to say, "Did I not promise? Come, and enjoy the good things prepared for thee." Then, in much fear, the maiden crossed the . frail leaf-stem, not heeding the awful shapes that flitted below; not looking at her uncertain feet, but gazing steadfastly onward to her mother's smile. When she had safely reached the house, she found no one therein; only the peaceful glory of her mother's presence lighted the place, and streamed far outward into the black darkness. So the tired and fainting damsel ate of the food on the table, and laid her down to sleep and pleasant dreams.   ,   OTTA PTER  III. "The stream ran out of the darksome vale, And sought for the bright sea-shore; She ran to her rest in the ocean's nest, And then ran back no more." UNDINE. MEANWHLE Johnnie, staff in hand, wan- dered on in the valley. The little brook grew into a broad, deep river, outside the garden, and the child loved dearly to gather the pink and amber-tinted shells that lined its margin. Often, too, she dipped her feet in the transparent shallows, and wove wreaths from the fragile blossoms that gemmed its bahnks, or floated afely outside its restless current. 'She wondered that the birds should fly at her arpproach, and even wept that the chattering squirrels were not lured by her caresses. Outside the garden things were very strange to the little wanderer, and more than one bitter tear fell into the smiling river, that, after all,     BRA ZEN GA TES.   X   29 was but a heartless playfellow in the room of the tender, loving Davie. In youth, however, the sun ever shines more brightly after the rain; and Johnnie was none the less the light-hearted maiden who had set out in search of the boy-knight, because she shed a few tears now and then. So life went not altogether sorrowfully with her, though her yellow head found no other pillow than a pile of golden buttercups, or a handful of daffodils snatched from the water's- edge. Once, as she lay sleeping thus in a grassy glade, where the moonbeams fell shining in and out among the trees, the earth-fairies came and played hide-and-seek in her tangled curls. As they hung swinging upon her long eye-lashes, and held rmimic warfare from the safe intrenchments of her round pink ears, suddenly they fled in alarm, for a mailed knight rode into the glade. He threw off his glittering armor, and carefully relieved his war-horse of the heavy saddle. Then, having turned him loose, he sank upon the daisied mead, and was speedily wrapped in slumber. ' Now the timorous fairies stole back, and gayly hurled their tiny arrows from the prostrate forms, and held a grand revel in the unlaced casque. Astride of gnats, they blew their shrill trumpets   30-      - EAs z a GATES. in the ears of the unconscious pair, until a second time they, were forced to fly, for now a hideous old woman hobbled into the glen. She gazed long and anxiously at the children, while every viper on her snaky head writhed and twisted with many a piercing hiss. "So Almanazar hag found thee Already, has he ." quoth she. "Thou hast a rosy cheek, and a pouting mouth as well. 'Far -too pretty a one for his kisses! Thou art much to be preferred to yon gray-eyed w/oodpecker up in the tree; but I hardly care for such a daughter, for. all thy charms. This moral, proper boy shall have none of thee, not if he asks my consent. He is a hand- some lad. How like his father he looks in the white moonlight! Pah! I hate him all the worse for it." At last she turned and limped away, and now it seemed as if the rest of these two fair sleepers was no longer calm and sweet, but they tossed in their uneasy slumbers as if plagued with sorrow- ful dreams. When the sun-fairies with their rosy fingers pulled open the eyelids of the young knight, he saw, lying almost at his feet, a wondrously beauti- ful maiden. He knew her features well, for he had seen her long before in the forest-clearing,   H -  .    BROAZN GATES.   .   31 and many times since in the magic mirror of the spring behind his castle. Soon Johnnie awakened, and first she shrank back affrighted at the strange accoutremifents lying on the grass. But when she saw the knight hihu- self, she smiled, and said simply: "So I have found thee at last, Sir Boy! Truly I have been seeking thee this long time." t"Prince Almanazar hathwalso wandered far in search of thee, beloved," answered the youth;  "but now that weary journey is over. Let us mount' my charger; he will speedily bear us homeward to the Brazen Gates." "No; I will -not mount him if thou dost, Sir Knight," quoth wilful Johnnie. - Rather let  I   me ride alone, and thou shalt walk by my side.    Then will the way be more full of pleasure."  I ^   So Almanazar lifted the maid lightly to the saddle. '"To do thy bidding is my delight, and thou thyself art my dear Lady Delight," he an- swered. , But no sooner, did the steed feel his lovely burden upon his back, than he started forward, snorting, and tossing. his head, and not -even the wind could keep pace with his flying footsteps. In vain did the- prince command his return. In vain did Johnnie's shrieks fill the air. Through rivers and seas, deserts, forests, and plains, flew   32      BRAZEN GATES. the' faithless charger, until suddenly he vanished from beneath the unhappy maiden, and she fell heavily to the ground. When Almanazar ceased his fruitless pursuit and returned to the glade, he found it not alto- gether empty. On the grass knelt a knight hold- ing his charger's foot in his hand, while he care- fully examined a bruise upon the animal's knee. ' Thy rusty armor there came near being my death," he cried, as the other entered the glen. "I was riding onward, turning over in my mind how best to win that scarlet blossom, the Lady Chrysanthema, when all at once my poor chestnut stumbled over some of thy heavy gear, and now, at the very best, he will go lame for a week. So much for thy carelessness!  Almanazar could not but laugh at the wry faces made by the youth, whom he recognized as Sir Raoul de Tecoma, an old playfellow, though of late it was rumored that he preferred the gay tourneys of the court to the rougher and more dangerous life of a knight-errant. "I crave pardon, Sir Raoul," quoth he. "Had I expected such a strain from thy trumpet-crest, I would have put the armor elsewhere. How- ever, the poor horse is not so much injured, after all. He is well able to bear his rider back to the /   i :BRAZEN GATES.                 S 3 lists, from which I marvel that a Tecoma should be absent."  " Thou art altogether wrong," quoth the other, with returning good-nature. a It is true that I was formerly something used to sound mine own x trumpet in unworthy idleness, but that is all over now. Ever since I first beheld that ruddy flower, the lady for whose glory I ride boldly out, I have thought of nothing-but honorable deeds of arms. Ah, it is pitiful to see her sit lonely, while the three maids, her sisters, have ridden far away to the joyous tourney! But to-day I go forth with better courage; there is rumor of- a grim  and savage knight in Flanders who hath in ward many noble gentlemen, for whom he demands great ransoms. I ride with' all speed against him. If I /succeed, right merrily will I hasten to the fair Chrysanthema, and she shall never sit lonely -any more."         - " Quite right, dear comrade," cried Almanazar. " I would I were with thee in this thing; but the Lady Delight, she of whom thou hast often heard me speak, is in danger, and I must hasten on.  "Thou hast seen her, then?" returned Sir Raoul. cc In truth, I have frequently heard thee tell of this wondrous maiden; but I was never quite sure whether she was a real mortal being, 2*     34      BRA ZEN GATES. or an angelic spirit, or only the fair ideal of the fragrant flower thou art so very fond of." He pointed, as he spoke, to a wreath of water-lilies lying on the grass where Johnnie had slept. "I wish thee success, with all my heart; but I must be off." Then he put on his helm, sur- mounted by a tiny golden trumpet, and rode gay- ly away. On the ground at Almanazar's feet lay John- nie's magic staff, and, as- bhe stooped and picked it up, his own charger trotted toward, him, just as he had been loosened the night before.- There, too, was the saddle where he had placed it ; and Almanazar now called to mind how he had not lifted the heavy harness and trappings from their place that morning; but the steed had hastened up to him already saddled for the journey. It was easy now to tell from whose hand the ill deed had come, even if the young ]might had not -luown full well before. Very thoughtfully he hung the lily-wreath over his golden mail. "So fair a blossom is fit emblem for so lovely a maid," quoth he. But now, with the staff in his hand, he -lacked no trace of the lost one, for behind her were lilies scattered all along the path. Here lay a petal, there a few green leaves. Sometimes only the subtile fra- grance was wafted towards him, and then again     BRAZENY GATES.       35 their rosy faces smiled by hundreds from the wayside pond. When the Imight found a -broad river opposing his course, the staff became a bridge, on which he crossed safely; when vast .seas stretched them- selves before him, he needed but to lay the little stick in the water, and straightway it was a ship, which swiftly bore him to the other shore. At length .he passed the boundaries of Chris- tian power, and entered upon those dusky regions where the Crescent holds sway. Here the people replied to his anxious inquiries, that a charger like his own, indeed, but spotted with foam, had passed through their villages. They added, that he bore upon his back a lily-maiden, whose long yellow hair streamed behind her like a-garment; but she must be dead ere this, for, when she passed, she could scarce sit upright in the saddle. At last the youth reached the base of a huge hill-like mound, at whose foot he was fain to rest, for the guiding blossoms no longer pointed out the way.   CHAPTER IV. "All that tread the globe Are but a handful to the tribes That slumber in its bosom." BRYANT. IT. was late at night when Johnnie awoke from her swoon, and, staggering to her- feet, strove to discover where she might be. On one hand rolled a rapid stream; on the other stretched a plain, dotted here and there by tents and villages; while before her, built upon a mound of earth, and shining from  tower to basement with light, rose a vast castle. Above  its pictured foundation of sun-dried bricks was framed the many-storied edifice, reared upon slender cedar pillars, and the sweet odor from its beams and floors of fir, mingled with the same fragrant wood, was wafted down to the maiden's nostrils. Looking upward, she noted how were stretched from pillar to pillar the curtains of blue and green and purple and fne-twined linen; and how the light within shone throfigh their rich   JI   *    -    BBRAZEN GATES.       37 colors, and streamed with its own mellow tints through the lofty doorways guarded by human- headed bulls. Looking down, the damsel beheld. the same many-hued shadows, and, as she gazed , at them, they took definite shape, and began a stately dance.  Of a truth, no human   power could' have wrought the marvel.  But Johnnie thought not of this; she only knew how fair were the forms, how wondrously beautiful the changes of the mystic shades.  And when ini different measure they whirled quicker and quicker, until the eye could no longer distinguish their complex motion, the little maiden watched them, entranced. Now they stopped, and with quiet pace began to approach the vast rock-hewn staircase leading up to the castle, and she fol- lowed them without a fear. The wonderful shadows seemed to have no part in the still, mild radiance that lit up the palace, the sculptured Hercules fitting into the outside wall, and the urns and ornaments plainly seen in the long halls. This shone alike from within the bull-guarded entrances, and from without upon the limestone platform, and the twin silken pen- nons hanging lifeless from the flag-staffs that surmounted the wide staircases, whose countless steps led up to the castle from the plains below. But the brilliant shades danced lightly every   'T    . 38-     BRAZEN GATES. where, and seemed to emulate in vivid colors the gorgeous light of the flame-crowned altar above  the palace ... Upward clambered John-ne, so intent on her pursuit of shadows that she did not see the carv-     ings on either side of the way. She passed un- heeding the' sculptured slaves bringing sacred |pine-cones, hares slain in the chase, and strings of locusts and pomegranates; but'when she reached the little platform midway up the steep,   where stood four immense lions, each hewn from     a solid block Of stone, she-started back in affright. The red light shone 'n their eye-balls, and they; looked as if animated by fiends. But upward      t1fled her bright companions,' and upward sped the maiden past the terrible beasts without a back-  ward glance, until.she stood upon the lime-flagged  terrace.  !No. a breather air stirred the heavy curtains,  |thatserved alike for walls, and awnings to the  cedar-pillared chambers; nor with soft 'fingers  dared any playful breezeto lift the lazy pennons gilde6d With the seal of the great Assyrian forider of the palace. -:lo! living thinC was visible. The fn-e 'burned  steadily upward from the altars upon the highest IrP  nw blood-red, now purple, and anon Chang-6  ing to green'and blue and soft straw-color. Many-     BRAZEN GATES.       39 toned bells rang sweet and clear upon the air, but the pretty, dancing shadows were gone. Johnnie hastily crossed the wide space sepa- rating staircase and castle, and her 'gentle foot- steps awoke a host of echoes that reverberated long after she had passed between the winged bulls at the doorway.- The huge beasts wore a smile of gratified malice as the cedar doors slammed in their stone sockets behind the maiden. It was with no little fear that Johnnie, brave as she was wont to be, wandered amid those lonely, awful halls. On the yellow bricks which formed the sides of the gigantic vestibule she saw pictured long lines of slaves going in chains to make submission to a throned king, whose fierce aspect filled her with horror, in no way lessened when, a little farther on, the maid found the same men suffering tortures. Hastening from the room, she passed. between another pair of human-headed bulls, aid entered a second hall, ornamented with the histories of wars and sieges; the war-steeds decorated with rosettes and bells, their furniture and chariots, and the carts wherein sat the captives. Anything that pertaineth to, a horse was of no small interest to the simple maid, and long she gazed upon the noble chargers with their scarlet trappings, until, at last, she could but    40       BRAZEN G ATES. remember how like were they to the treacherous beast who had brought her thither. Too angry at the thought to gaze longer, she hastened yet further into the castle, until she reached a vast apartment many cubits high, opening out of which, in successive stories, were numberless chambers. ' Like all the rooms-wherein Johnnie had wan- dered, the angles of the doorways were guarded by gods carved in hard limestone -and soft ala- baster. Here were Dagon, human-footed, fishy- tailed, Nisroch, with the eagle-head, and the lion- footed god, and Asshur, drawn in a circle, with - outspread wings. - Sometimes overlaid with pure gold, sometimes distinct in the delicacy of their white, carven surfaces, or gorgeous with colors, were these awful deities, fit guardians of the strange, empty palace. As the maiden entered this chamber, her foot struck against a bit of bronze lying on the pave- ment close by the terrible god Nisroch. She. picked it up; it was a horribly distorted human head, broken from some weapon, perhaps a mace. Soon .she was startled by- a low chuckle, and, looking down at the face in her hand, she saw it wore a hideous grin, and the stony features of the carvings in the silent hall seemed to put on the same ghastly smile. Presently the head   BRAZEX GA TES.       41 spoke-or was it the bewildered maiden's own heart, that said: "Go into the apartment on the right, and strike one of the glistening shields that hang there ". In truth, Johnnie saw the golden radiance of the round-orbed bucklers through the open door- way at the end of the hall; and, as if in a dream, she went toward them. The gilded doors all swung open as she ad- vanced, disclosing the treasures they were -set to hide. tiere, a banquet -was laid out upon the sculptured tables; there, piles of linen and silken garments were heaped upon the floor; pots of ointment were scattered about, and perfumes loaded down the heavy air. At length she- reached the room where hung the great bronze shields upon the walls. Here, too, were the golden and silver vessels taken as spoil, from conquered nations; and maces set about with glistering stones; with great store of javelins, and spears, and curiously-fashioned swords. Although well-nigh desperate from the fright- ful stillness, it was with- a trembling hand that the. maiden struck a great orb with the grinning head; and her pulse stood still when serving-men and damsels, dignitaries and animals, prisoners and free, instantly strode from their places on the wall, and sought 'their wonted--avocations; or, if   42      BR AZEN GATES. they remained in the stony imagery, still their eyes and-heads turned, and their limbs regained power of motion. Once more in those long- deserted halls echoed the noise and bustle of human life. Shrieks of prisoners resounded in the torture-chambers, and the laughter of women from the tiring-rooms. From the kitchens came servants bearing food for the banquet, and the sound of the sculptorls chisel mingled with the voice of the singer. Johnnie stood like a frightened hare, knowing not whither to go; but amidst the loud beatings of her heart and the hum of the people, she once more thought she heard the voice. "See," it seemed to say, 'they do not behold thee! they notice thee not! - Go to the banquet-hall, and allay thine hunger." So Johnnie timidly returned to where the guests were feasting. There were many tables in the room, but there seemed none lacking of the appointed number to sit thereat. By one of them was the king, eating and drinking. Near him she silently took her place. As she watched the youthful monarch, she could but admire his wonderful beauty. His long beard fell curling over his bosom. Iis loose purple robes were adorned with fringes of gold, and .tassels of the same metal hung upon K       /   BRAZEN GA TES.        43 his garments. tHis lips, with their perfect treas- ures within, wore a perpetual smile, and his beautiful black eyes, full of passionate fire, were a very load-stone to the simple-hearted child. As she sat down, the servants brought thither barley-cakes, and a flask of oil and loaves of wheaten bread. Then they gset before her swine's flesh, and hare dressed with spices, and a kid seethed in milk. Soon they returned with locusts parched in an oven, and plates of honeycomb and flagons of milk and wine. And, lastly, they snatched ripe pomegranates from the walls, where they hung in stony tracery, and set on the table great dishes of grapes and apples, and preserves in alabaster jars. Delicious odors filled the room   during the meal, both breathed from vases of ointment and sprinkled about the apartment by the attendants. When the last cluster of grapes was eaten, Johnnie rose -up and passed into the great hall. Here was the royal throne, and hither presently came the king and his followers. No sooner did he sink into the gorgeous seat, than a door opened, and a long procession of men and women moved into view, playing upon harps and singing. They swept around the hall, their tinkling ornaments sounding at every step, their garments beautiful with embroidered work   "      BRAZEN GA TES. and purple. When they had finished, they passed through the door by which' they came, and a company of dancers entered in their stead. Poetry lived in every motion, and floated from each fold of their loose vesture, which sparkled with diamonds, emeralds, and rubies. Johnnie had never seen anything more bright than the shower of sparks which was wont to fly up the chimney of her father's cottage when the forestick parted on the hearth; and this brilliant display of flashing beauties made her stand and gaze in rapt astonishment and delight, heedless of all else. Even so might a white clover-head, plucked from the meadow by the brook-side, gaze upon the fountain in the beautiful conservatory when the sun shone through- the glass roof upon the leaping waters. At last this pageant vanished like the first, and a little boy took its place. His hair, like John- nie's own, streamed downward a mass of yellow curls; his cheek was fair and ruddy, his voice clear and full. He paused before the maiden and began to sing, his changing features express- ing the thoughts in the poem as perfectly as his tones took the varying melody. Thus ran the verses. First, in slow and solemn strain, he struck the chords:   BRAZEN GA'TES.          - 45 "Maiden, who, unasked, hath come To these grim, forgotten halls, Here, where shadows make their home, Die within the voiceless walls." ' Then, as if touched by her face of terror, he went on in another guise: "Where the yellow moonlight falls, Sleeping lies a beauteous youth; And the flaming altar calls         Hungry from the cedar roof." - "He will be the offering fair, And the priests, in fringed robes, Will pour out his blood with prayer-- Thus appease the angry gods. "Then shall twine, in garland bright, Thy life and yon fair black-eyed king's, And, forever clothed in light, And gay with joy, the palace sings. "Take this harp, breathe forth one song, And the victim, hither led, By thy gentle accents won, Shall buy for thee thy marriage-bed." In soft, entreating measure, the lay was ended, and before the mind of the maid rose the scenes described, and she remembered the tortured pris- -oners, and imagined herself already in the hands of  her tormentors.   Then  she gazed upon  the   "-      BRAZEi  GA TATES. king, and she noted his features, beautiful beyond compare; while the memoryof the false Alma- nazar came to .her-he who had so treacherously planned her misery. Ah, this king was wonder- fully fair, and his palace passing grand I How happy would she be in these halls, with the beau- teous monarch and his obedient people I But now the thought :of the young stranger,. doomed to purchase her joy with his death, came to her mind. What right had she thus to sacri- fice an innocent life? How could she live, with his blood on her head? Still, as she pondered, the melody flowed over her soul, weaving about her its wizard spells, until she lost the power of thinking, and was fain to do as the singer willed. She took the harp he offered her, and with nerve- less fingers twitched the echoing chords. Then, all at once, the, thought of the pure-hearted, ten- der sister broke upon her clouded brain, and she dashed the instrument to the ground, and exclaimed, in an agony of tears: "No, I will- not -I cannot! Oh, Davie! Davie   how couldst thou leave me to be tempted thus!" Her voice rang clear -and full through the -place, find the startled people turned looks of amazement and wrath upon her. At her cry a silver-feathered dove, till then immovable among , o   BRA ZEN GATES.       47 the ornaments ef the throne, spread her wings and hastened from the hall. Then the ruddy face of the boy-singer faded, and instead appeared the grinning features of the bronze head. He opened his toothless 'jaws, and cried, with a shriek of devilish laughter, "Ia! ha! pretty one, I have thee safe enough now! The prince will hardly bear his dear Delight to the Brazen Gates in my time i Stone walls tell no tales." As his discordant tones rose upon the air, Dagon and Nisroch t60k up the strain, and peal after peal of Satanic merriment echoed through the halls. The light shone blue and ghastly upon the scene, and, struck with terror, Johnnie fled. The gods stretched out their arms to stop her progress, and the people followed her with angry cries. Fear lent her wings, and she sped onward through the corridors, while the figures crowded from the walls in the savage chase. The bulls shook the earth with their roaring, the lions leaiped to the ground and sprang toward her, and the dogs slipped their leashes and joined in the pursuit. Up the winding staircase the maiden ran, through the cedar-pillared halls, until at last she reached the palace-roof. Asshe turned, a priest t {,   48       BRAZEN GATES. caught her by her garments, and bore her faint- ing form into the circle of his comrades. Their faces looked hard and relentless in the glare of the ever-changing flame; and the light shone upon their golden fringes and tasselled robes, over which were scattered a mass of jewels, that glittered like icicles upon the evergreen forest when the sun rises. The people rushed to the roof and stood in expectant throngs, the coward king in their midst, while the high priest dragged his victim to the altar. As he laid his hand upon her, Johnnie gave -a second cry, and' raised her eyes to. heaven. Instantly a falcon appeared from behind the figure of the great god Asshur, and his broad pinions clave the air in his hurried flight. Then the censers swung, and clouds of incense arose before the winged deity, and the spices and oil and wine ran down the sides of the altar. Now a frenzied dance began about the defence- less sacrifice, accompanied by the sound of cym- bals and psalteries, and the frightful yells of the women. - The dance ended, and the high priest knelt a moment before the altar, ere he raised his gleam- ing knife. But God, I ween, always knows how to defend His children. Just at this moment the falcon, and the dove, overtaken by his stronger   BRA ZEN AV AES.  -49 wings, rested exhausted upon the roof of, the hut which Davie even then reached. They bore to her Johnnie's cries and prayers. Now the sister looked down from the lofty tree, and, seeing her loved one's danger, great tears gathered and rolled one after another from her eyes. Ah, thanks be to the gentle Christ who willed it so, they fell a most precious shower far down, until they reached the accursed castle. At their touch the flame upon the altar, which, a moment before, had been leaping and flashing, even as if inspired with savage glee, became extinct. The priest staggered back, the features of the bronze head apparent in his shrunken face, and his every hair became a hissing snake. With a horrid curse, he' spread his bat-like wings and fled away. Johnnie snatched her purse from the loor, and from it issued a great stork, around whose neck she threw her arms, and both rose into the air. The cedar pillars of the palace gave way; the flame leaped through  its silken curtains; the earth rocked and opened to receive the crumb- ling walls from which the uproar and din of the people still resounded. A- moment the convul- sion lasted, and then there remained only a vast heap of yellow earth and ruined wall, just as it had lain the night before--just as the sun had looked upon it for ages. 3'     '   OHTAPTEi    V. ' The light, white cloud swam over us.' Anon We heard the lion roaring from his den; We saw the large white stars rise one by one, Or from the darkened glen Saw God divide the night with flying flame." TENNYSON. -?     ,WFT ILF, Johnnie was travelling along the , ;: ;1 ):riverrside, Davie still continued to mount the tree. "As she ascended, great eagles  soared above her in vast circles, and wide-mouthed serpents twisted themselves about the branches. Less to be feared were these monsters for their many-toothed jaws than for their foetid, stifling - breath, and their glittering eyes, which drew the poor child irresistibly toward them.  Once she met one of these terrible snakes coiled about the tree. His scales shone brightly in the sun, and his sullen eyes glowed in his filt forehead. He was directly in the path, and the maiden saw no way of escape. Some unseen power drew her toward him.  Her head whirled.   Her hands   .   R AZEXN  GAT..  ;  .  51 relaxed their hold upona the bough. Her breath came short and hard from her purple lips. Death stared at her from above and below. Suddenly the monster uncoiled ancd shrank aside, and two white birds * flew past him toward the gates of heaven. They were the messengers who bore little Johnnie's words up to God as she knelt on, the earth praying for the dear sister so far away. Sometimes Davie, finding neither rest nor com- fort, climbed upward so long as almost to lose  hope, and be ready to forego her attempt to reach the clouds. Then would- she see her mother's face 'high among the branches, or perhaps some strain of music would be faintly borne down- ward towards her on the wind. Often, at these times, she heard the well-remembered words: "Will He not be with thee When toilsomely Thou climbest, day by day, From morn till evening gray, His home to see?" Now, as then, she whispered: "Courage enough have I, for I will keep what God hath given me; but the way is very weary.  Christ, send me strength in time of need        - " Often she would come unwittingly upon a * "Prayer is the carrier-pigeon of heaven.*'     ; a 5 2    BRAZEN GATTES. hammock after such a weary struggle, 'or may- hap a little cottage like the one wherein she had reposed on the first night of her climbing. Once a falcon gentil and a dove rested together upon the twig-thatched roof; and, though they brought her sore trouble for the time, yet, henceforth, the maiden was no more lonely, for the falcon always flew on before her, and the dove nestled in her bosom. Very oft Davie gazed long and earnestly at Johnnie through her magic coin, and she for- got, in grief at her sister's misfortunes, the bitter- ness of her own. One evening, not long after the coming of her feathered companions, the maiden rested in such a tiny hut far out upon a great leaf of the tree. The falcon had sought repose with his head beneath his wing, and the dove cooed softly from her perch. Davie herself lay quietly sleeping, when all at once a strange, delicious sense -of ex- citement came over her, and she awoke. Through the open door she beheld her mother enter, and at her side walked a tall, yellow-haired youth, with sparkling blue eyes. Gliding before the bed, the shades paused where the white moonilight, falling with check- ered beam through the easement, brightened their airy forms; and Davie half rose, and, lean- ing on her elbow, looked wonderingly at them.   BRAZEN G ATES.      53 Never had the beloved spirit come so near be- fore; never had the maiden been so weary and footsore as on that selfsame evening. "Thou hast suffered, little one?" said the mother, in gentle tones. "Thou art altogether tired of this toilsome journey? Thou wilt soon descend the tree, and return to the quiet garden?"  Never!" answered Davie. "I am not yet L   ready to give up my hopes. I will press on to the end. I thank thee that thou hast brought me the strength to bear me upward." 'Thou art very'brave, daughter " "quoth the angelic one, with a. sigh. -"Couldst thou suffer for another what thou bearest so well for the furtherance of thine own wishes . "  "Mother," said the maiden, with hanging head, "am I selfish in my desire- to see thee? Am I wrong in following after thee?" "aNo, darling-no," answered the spirit, ten- -derly. "This is well; but thou wilt certainly behold me at the last. Couldst thou for another's  sake turn aside from thine upward journey--to feel anguish of a surety, but also to aid?"  Yes, my mother," said Davie; "I could do this, and more, at thy bidding." "Wilt thou even go searching after a poor chilly Snowflake " asked the youth, earnestly speaking for the first time.   54      BRAZEfN GATES. "Yes," quoth she again, and now with a shy smile on her pale face, "-and right joyfully,' if thou -art that Snowflake." "Then forget not that I wait for thee," an- swered the youth, in eager tones. But the mother sighed.  'I pray that thy courage fail not," she said, sadly. Now the vision faded away, and left only the still moonlight in the room. No sound was heard save the dove cooing soft and low. Very sorrow- ful sounded her voice to the again dreaming maiden, go that she thought, amid her visions, that she now listened once more to the angelic one; and the silvery bird seemed no longer such, but the well-beloved spirit-guardian of her soul. Meanwhile the ever-whispering wind danced in and out, imparting precious secrets to the. branch- es where he sported; and the falcon snored loudly from his perch, and Davie awoke to ponder much in her heart the-matters of the night. After this, it was no long time before the ever- growing tree pierced the thick blue curtain that veils from our eyes the foundations of that upper world lying so far above us. Here the Ice-King holds sway; and on the further'side lies that realm where the souls of loving mortals put on immortality. There, too, stands Sandolphon, at the foot of the staircase which leads to heaven; 4! ^   BRAZEN GATES.,       -55 and a land ruled by giants separates it from the dominion of the Ice-King. Now, from the tree a slender tendril. stretched forth its hands, and, taking hold of the .snow- bound earth,' straightway a bridge appeared, over v which Davie safely crossed to firm ground. Cov- ered with snow was this unknown country, and far across its surface arose neither bush nor hut upon the vision. At night the sky flamed with scarlet and crim- son glory, and in the day the pale, weak sun shot his scant rays upon the impregnable ramparts of the enemy, ever ready to dip below the horizon if attacked.. Over this barren waste hurried Davie, and for many days wanderied alone, hearing no human voice. At length she met a fair youth clad in shining golden mail, and 'he bore over his arm a long white cloak-made of dove's feathers. "It is bitter cold, fair maiden," quoth he. "I marvel that thou canst live in such a barren spot."         - "I shall not freeze," she answered, scarce knowing the meaning of this strange salutation, "(When I hasten on, I feel the wind very little. But who art thou, that takest such interest'in a forlorn wanderer?" "Men call me sometimes the Tiger, and Tiger-   56      BRA ZEN GATES. Lily,"? quoth he, "because I wear such golden armor, and, moreover, bear lily-bells on my shield; but most frequently am I hight Alma- nazar, and I seek the Lady Delight everywhere." "She is not here/, replied Davie.. "I am the only woman in this frigid land. But has thy love no other name-none that is apart from her pass- ing sweet title?"  "Yes, truly she hath," responded he; "she is hight Johnnie.' But I love not such a man-like calling for a maid."  "But I do, of a surety,"' quoth the other. "I beheld her, not long since, resting in the land of Egypt, whither she fled from the Assyrian palace. There thou mayest seek her." "I thank thee earnestly, dear prophetess," cried the youth. "I have a thing for thee. This cloak is thine. It is more meet for thy wearing than mine; and she who last night left it with me, certainly gave for this use." "What hast thou for warmth; Sir Knight?" quoth the maid, longing for the warm garment. "'My armor.   What should a warrior ask more?" "Then-will I have none of thy feathered robe," she said. "I go to help others, not to take their comforts from them. Hasten to search for thy love." So she turned resolutely from the youth,   BRAZE  GATES. S57. and saw him no more. But when she awoke on the morrow, the cloak lay over her feet. With the dove warm in her bosom and the fal- con for her guide, Davie hastened on; and when the wind cut through her-shrinking form, she drew the warm mantle about her, and presied bravely forward; for her mother's face. ever smiled upon her, alike from the clouds overhead and from the crisp snow that crackled beneath her light feet. At length she reached a shining white moun- tain, whose hard ice-crust, smooth as glass, glis- tened in the sunlight. Straight on flew ther falcon, and the maiden followed, though often a misplaced step would undo the labor of hours, and- the glassy steep would need to be climbed over again.  When she stood finally upon the summit, a line of low, thick pillars stretched far' away into the dim distance on either hand, and above them rose the roof of a vast palace. There was no trace of life about the chilly pile; no footprints marred the perfect level of the soft snow; no bird even twittered and flut- tered on the ground. The heavy black cloud overhead was not more forbidding than the gloomy white structure-into which the falcon led the way. There was neither door nor window to 3*   58      BRA ZEN GATES. the palace; through the unclosed side led the path, between the pillars, and the light pierced the half-transparent slabs of ice of which the walls were built. Amid the sombre corridors -and vaulted cham- bers Davie wandered, but no sign of huiman labor met her anxious eyes; no bit of rainbow- hued tapestry; no leaf or flower chiselled on the pale walls; no garment carelessly thrown aside. Nothing 'betokening life existed within those dreary recesses, save the silver-feathered dove cherished by the dovelike maiden, and the som- bre-hued falcon who guided them onward. At last Davie reached a chamber far within, where the pale light fell softly through the arched roof, upon a couch piled high with feath- ery snowflakes. A human shape lay thereon; whether a sleeping youth or a corpse,-or a beau- tifully-moulded statue, she could not at the first be sure. With noiseless footsteps, lest she should disturb his rest--if in rest he lay-the maiden advanced into the room, until she stood beside the prostrate form. Well she knew the featu the the curling golden hair, the perfect mouth. She .could even have told the color of the eyes, over which the blue-               ,    BRA ZEN GA TES.       59 veined lids lay so reposefully. Alas! little had she thought how true were the words spoken so long before. Too faithfully had she. kept her promise! Through all the wide desert .she had sought and found--a beautiful youth? God help her! no-only a poor chilly Snowflake. But Davie gazed sorrowfully upon the motion- less one, and laid her hand upon the pale, cold cheek. "Here is that which is more to me than all of life else," she said. * Then she took off her plumy cloak and laid it upon the lifeless limbs, and leaned over his face, so perfect in its icy beauty; and the wish came into her heart to breathe out her soul there, and lie frozen, like him, at his side. Long and lov- ingly she looked upon the passionless features, and then she laid her warm maiden-lips close to his stony mouth, and kissed him. There arose a mighty struggle in the ice-locked limbs of the youth, and he lifted himself and stood upon his feet, a living man. But as the warm life-blood coursed through his veins, the scarlet current hardened around poor Davie's heart, and she sank down upon his snowy bed, only a clod of wondrously beautiful earth. Then the falcon snatched the -coin from her lifeless fingers, and flew with it far away down to the earth, searching over land and sea for John-    60      BRAZEN GATES. nie; but the dove renmained watching by the maiden, cooing to herself the while, and the youth never took his steadfast gaze from her mar- ble face. cook   CH APTER VI. "i' If captive wight attenpt the tuneful strain, His voice belike full dolefully will sound; But, to the sad, tis comfort to complain." THE stork placed Johnnie on the ground outside the walls of the fallen palace, and waited patiently to receive her com- mands. Great was her desire to leave the awful spot; but since her faithful bearer seemed loth to depart, she was fain to stay. When her eye fell presently upon a piece of golden, glittering armor, she was more willing to remain, especially as she soon spied its knightly owner fast asleep-upon the ground. Here, then, was that stranger who had lain in her power when she wandered through the As- syrian castle.  She made haste to examine who he might be, and directly drew back, while the red blood dyed her cheeks with a hue as bright as the clouds that surrounded the eastern sun, even then peeping over the plains. It was with good cause that her heart fluttered like a prisoned butterfly, for the face was Almanazar's, wonder-   62      B R BASZEN GATES. fully fair among his clustering curls. Though pale from the weariness of his hard journey, and troubled with unsatisfied longing, to Johnnie's eyes he seemed far more beautiful than ever before. Thou knowest, dear reader, that she- was ex- ceedingly angry with the prince, singe she saw in him the author of all her misfortunes, and, more- over, doubted his truth to herself. Therefore she resolved to make it very clearly known that she was by no means the victim of his wiles. First she thought to wake him, but remembered that she would be in his power when he came to him- self. Next she decided to carry off some part of his armor; but now she feared lest he might, by ' the means, be exposed to danger. Finally she d cut a long tress from her head, and cast about for some means of fastening it to his helm, in place of the waving plume which crowned it. "If he care for me, he camlot fail to know by this who hath been here," quoth she, " and then he will 'surely follow me wheresoever I may fly; but if. he hold me not dear, I will hide fmy hope- less love where none will ever look upon my sor- row."           ..  Saying so, Johnnie lifted the casque to her lap, and spied, for the first time, a twisted wreath of water-lilies on the ground beside it. When their ,j   BRA ZE Z N GATES.      63 perfume saluted her nostrils, she dropped her little yellow head upon her bosom, and the pink blush faded from her cheeks as she recognized the poor blossoms. By this token, if none else, the youth must be her lover. Ah, fie upon the coquettish heart that will wound itself in striving to tease another! Like the apple of Sodom is the sure fruitage of such an act-ashes, nay, often fiery coals of burning sorrow, the certain recompense. Herself made happy by the belief of his truth, not even his weary face could turn the maid from her wish to try him further. She resolved to punish him for his lack of care in letting her mount his fierce black charger, though she felt that, in his hurried journey, his only th6ought had been of her, his only fear for her safety.             / Thus minded, she bethought her of a silver clasp upon her vesture, which she long ago found in the flower of a water-lily, blooming on the face of the spring which bubbled up in the midst of the garden. tIn truth, the jewel was a won- drously fair image of its case, for -it bore the petals of a lily, and its stamens were of shining gold, and the dewdrops in its throat were every one a glistening pearl. With this she fastened the yellow tress to the helm, and then the wilful   "      BRA ZEN GATES. maiden, though she could not stay herself from pressing many a kiss upon the casque which should protect the dear chestnut head, yet mounted resolutely her faithful stork, and fled away over land and sea, though her heart turned back toward the sleeping youth through the whole journey. "Fly, fly, good stork!" she .cried; ('bear me far hence-anywhere thou wilt."  And- then she wept sore, and wrung her hands, saying piteously, "Ah, why did I leave thee, my dear one!" but still urged the' faithful bird forward in its flight. Johnnie presently comforted herself with the thought that she should soon see her love again, and make him all the happier for his present sor- row; and she fell to picturing to herself how she would greet him when he found her, and how ,they would wander hand in hand till they came to a stately castle, which should be his, and they would pass in between its great Brazen Gates, and dwell happily together. Long time the stork hastened on; but at last he alighted, and left the maid standing upon the ground, alone in the midst of a ruined temple, Far off she could discern the majestic Nilus bearing upon his surface myriads of lotus-blos- soms, and close at hand upon the capitals and shafts of the pillars, half-covered by the drifting sand, were pictures of the same beautiful flowers. ,                    .   BRA ZEN GATES.       65 Jotnnie heard very clearly the music of a little spring near by, and, following the sound, she per- ceived a half-buried statue of Isis, behind whose gigantic form the gentle brook gushed out of the sand. The gurgling of the tiny streamlet was passing sweet to the ears of the thirsty child, and she hastened to drink of the crystal waters. Drawing near to the statue, she saw it to be hol- low, and, entering, found a little chamber where she could rest. So it was that the maiden dwelt by the spring. Her purse gave her day by day the needful food, and in the shelter of the vast statue was safety. Days and weeks grew into months, and, still departing, left her in her rocky home; and, save that a dainty fringe of green sprung up about the little rill, they brought no change. Many strangers passed by and returned upon the calm Nile, and, as they gazed upon the ancient ruins, they dreamed, perchance, of the treasures buried among the broken pillLrs; but it came not into their minds that a fairel jewel was sheltered amid the lotus-carved columrs than any hidden by the faithless desert-sands. The very first night that poor little Johnnie slept in her stony chamber, the calm features of Isis bent over her in a dream; sad, indeed, be-   "       -BRAZEN   aATPES, cause there ever remained with her the memory of her noble husband whom on earth she had so faithfully mourned. Now the face of the goddess was softened into an expression of maternal tenderness, and she gently chanted to the sleeper a little song, and hot tears forced themselves from     beneath the maiden's eyelids and rolled down her rosy cheeks the while, as in measured cadence the stern deity let fall the words: "Little maid, Hither straying blithely From thy native shade, Isis will protect thee- Be not afraid! "Osiris, Slowly dying, Sought from lotus ease; On their petals lying, Found death in peace. "So Isis Loves the lily; But a knight prizes' The bloom more than she; All day he sighs. "A Spring rose For thy drinking, And thy heart outgoes With thy love's linking; Thus the tear flows.   BiAZE1N GATES.       .6G "Of harm secure, Dwell where I shade thee; Sorrow comes to thee sure, But Isis will aid thee: Lonely endure." When the singer made an end, her face grew still more pitiful, and she laid her hand softly upon the child's brow, hot with the excitement of her dream, and the cool touch seemed to im- part fresh strength. "Poor, foolish one!" she said, " fear not; I will be near thee. Thou art over-young to suffer." Then the goddess, little by little, faded from sight, and when Johnnie awoke, she strove to believe the wondrous vision only an idle fancy, whose falsehood would be proved by the coming day. As weeks wore on, and still no living thing came to cheer her lone- liness, she began to lose her light heart, and fears for Almanazar's safety added a sharper sting to her sorrow. Without avail she said to herself that another morning- would bring him to her feet. Morn rounded into yellow noon, and noon in turn waned to eventide, but still he came not. One day a flutter of wings reached her ear, and with an eager cry she started up and watched for the alighting of the stranger. 'Alas! her heart'fquick beatings were all in vain, for it was no stork bringing deliverance, no message from   I        " t 68       BRA ZEN GATtS. the flame-bright Tiger-Lily Almanazar; only a great sombre-hued falcon, who descended to her - feet. When she spoke softly, glad even of such a playfellow, he clambered up her vestments and perched upon her slender wrist. Then the maid saw what before she had not noticed-that -he held a round jewel in his beak, and, reaching her hand toward him, he dropped it into her little palm. It was a clear stone in a narrow setting of gold. Johnnie thoughtlessly held it to her eye, and lo! she seemed to be in a great white palace. Beside her stood a fair, blue-eyed youth, and on a snowy couch close by lay a wondrously beautiful maiden, with a silver dove perched upon her shoulder. But when she reached her arms out toward the figure, whose face seemed some pale, shadowy counterpart of her sister Davie's, she again looked upon the brown desert, and the cold, chilly vision passed away. As often as she gazed through the magic jewel *the same sad scene greeted her, and she at length perceived that it was in truth her tender sister who lay frozen within those icy palace-walls. Then for the first time the poor child lost all heart, and, with a flood of bitter tears, she ex- claimed. : *    BRAZEN GATES.         69 "Oh, Isis!--Mother! wherefore didst thou shelter me, that I should only lose existence by a more painful death, and see my loved ones perish afar off? Better would it have been if I had been buried in the bowels of the earth, or suffocated by the burning desert-sand." Soon there was a sighing from the breast of the great statue, and the tender voice of Isis spoke again to the weeping child: "Did I not tell thee that thou must suffer? Did I not warn thee that thou shouldst-feeltsorrow? But I will save thy sister, that she perish not utterly; She shall again tread the green earth, and look upon thee." She ceased, and suddenly a mighty Wind swept over the, desert, and, gathering strength at every revolution, he rose upward, circling swifter and swifter, until he twisted apart the cloudy founda- tions of the upper world, and made himself a, free entrance into the palace of the Ice-King. Then the pitying goddess loaded his wings with the little- sister's warm heart-breath, and bade him lay the tearful sighs close to the poor frozen breast of the hapless maid, until she should revive, and escape from her dread prison. By the aid of her wonderful jewel, Johnnie watched the dear one until she passed out -of sight with her strange companion; and when   ;70      BRAZEIN GATES. the truth-stone would no longer pierce the cloudy firmament, a still heavier silence settled around her, and still more dreary became the unbroken current of her life. As she slowly withdrew her eyes firom their hopeless errand, she was startled by a voice close at her elbow-not the soft accents of the goddess, but a harsh, grating utterance. The words were kind, albeit the tone was something ungentle; and right thankful to the falcon was Johnnie, in that he strove thus to comfort her. With homely words he bade her take courage, and hold on to the hope of release from the desert; and, best of all, gave full assurance of her sister's safety A wearisome prison had the old temple- be- come; for, though the broad Nilus was visible from her hiding-place, yet she by no means ven- tured to cross the dismal waste lying between, lest she should die of thirst, or be overwhelmed by the ever-shifting dust, or, worse than all, suf- focated by the poisonous wind, and cast dead upon the pitilesss sand-waves.  In vain the Falcon strove to console her; she only wept more bitterly.  But sometimes he crooned -bits of old ballads that she had heard her father sing long before; or he would croak out sorrowful .stories about the birds and flowers   BRAZEN GATES.           71 that she had loved in happier times; and then. her grief took a gentler course, and she would for a while forget her misfortunes in the kindly memories. Once the sun went down, and Night with her black shadows arose among the ruins, and shook out her spangled robes above the desert.    Then the Falcon began to talk to the maiden in this wise: "Daughter," quoth he, "I will tell thee a story.." "No," answered Johnnie, perversely, "I will not hear thy tale." Then, ashamed of her reply, she added, in a gentler tone, ' Canst thou not sing me a rhyme, good bird?" So the old fellow smoothed his plumes, which he had somewhat ruffled in displeasure, and sang, in his hoarse, cracked voice, these words: "In the shadow a pansy grew, Bearing buds of purple hue, And from the buds the flowers peeped through, -Sweet to smell and pretty to view- The pansies in my garden. "There were five little leaves on every bud, And inside these came a close-drawn hood; The five little leaves were worn like a snood-- I    -    Let any one see her face who could, Coy pansy in the garden.   72       BRAZEN GATES. "By and by she opens her eyes; on her cheeks the maiden blushes rise:; In her own fair face her heart it lies, And from it breathe out perfumed sighs, Sweet pansy in the garden." Then came a pause, while the Falcon smoothed his feathers again, and, hearing nothing from Johnnie, tucked his head under his wing, as if going to sleep. Presently the maid raised her face toward the bird, as he stood on the great stone statue, with one foot hidden in his plumy breast. "Why sit snoring there?   quoth she.  "I wait for the end of thy story." "Snore! Ill-mannered minx, I never snore! Hast thou no reverence for age-2 I returned the other, in tones of offended dignity. "I know not what else to call it," answered she. "When I snort in such fashion that I could be heard as far as the Nilus, I suppose I snore." "Thy language is most choice!" said the Fal- con, in biting sarcasm.  "As if any one ever snorted who wore feathers!" "Well, well," interrupted Johnnie, " wilt thou not continue thy tale. or must I go to sleep without it  How hard-hearted art thou to deny me even this little pleasure!" "Compose thyself," returned her old friend.   BRAZEN GATES.           73 ' Thou winkest like a crow'in a hail-storm; and winks injure the eyes     especially hood-winks." So the ill-used songster went on: "Her petals numbered five in all; Three were short and two were tall: The tall were purple; as for the small, She dressed them in orange, from summer to fall, Gay pansy in the garden. "She'd a dimpled chin, and she'lay awake, With her eyes on the stars, their hearts to break. The hunble-bees quarrelled for her sweet sake; The braggarts sought long kisses to take From the pansy in the garden. "They did her tender heart foul wrong; They kissed too oft, and they kissed too long; They saw she was dying, and off with a song They flew; but she faded her sisters among, Poor pansy in the garden!" Johunie heard the rest of the song without a word; but, simple as was the tale, it had for her a most dread meaning. "Poor Flower!!" sighed she, as the last cracked note of the aged minstrel died away, and a second time he prepared   for repose ; "poor Flower, bit- ter indeed was thy life, and    sad thy unrequited love; but far worse will be my    story.  Thy end was hard, even   amid the  sweet consolements of affection, and  in thy well-loved  birthplace; but 4   ,      /     r 74 :.SBRA ZE N GA TES. how much worse will be -the fate of thy poor sister, condemned by her own fault to linger in a joyless existence, from which a lonely death is the wished-for release.' In her dreams the goddess sometimes looked" pityingly upon her; but not seldom her face was stern, and hardly kind. Ah, dear sister "Johnnie would often ex- claim " thou shalt indeed behold my face; but only as I lie a corpse, denied even a burial amid the parched sand." Thinking thus, she grew very gentle, and3 in her quiet sorrow, came rather to resemble the meek Davie than her former merry self; -while her pale cheeks and hollow eyes seemed to add a dread confirmation to her fore- bodings. And now, watched by the sad-faced Isis, and ' comforted by the poor, loving Falcon, we must leave her, while we seek again the Ice-Palace, and see what befel Davie, whom we left fondled and mourned by the silver-coated dove. ' " .'t  " r  *    ^    CH-APTER VIIL "Out of the bosom of air, Out of the cloud-folds of her garments shaken, Over the woodlands brown and bare, Over the harvest-fields forsaken, Silent, soft, and slow, Fall the leaflets and the snow." ALTERED FROM LONGFELLOW.  KNOW not how long a time Davie had been lying upon her snowy couch, when Johnnie discovered her unhappy plight; but this I know, that at last the icy walls of the palace began to shed clear water-drops, and little rills trickled down the crystal dome. Then a balmy breath floated upward through th e floor, 'and in its genial warmth the maiden revived. First a pink glow stole into her pale cheeks, faint as the blush of the poor wind-flower when the cold blast ruffles up her trembling leaves; next, her great gray eyes opened, and at last she arose and stood upon her feet. Now the youth, who had all this while been F.- fan as th  bls  *ftepo   ldozrwe "          - th col bls ufe p Xtebig evs A   next he gra gryee    pndsn    tls h   s76      BRAZEs GATES. gazing at her out of eyes wide open with wonder, advanced, and said: "What art thou, and whence comest thou, and whom dost thou seek?" Davie answered meekly: - "I am a maid who climbed hither upon a tree that stood in the midst of the garden. I sought to know of the wondrous beings who wander through the sky amid the clouds, and to see my mother; but I have found thee." All this while the dove was flying 'about their heads, trying in vain to -warn them of danger by her cries; but not until 'the icy walls cracked asunder, and the floor parted almost beneath their feet, did they cease to stand gazing into each other's faces, forgetful of all else. At last, awaking to their position, with one accord they began to follow the dove through the corridors, along whose floors the water some- times coursed in torrents, or suddenly disappeared through the great crevasses that yawned behind their flying footsteps.  -At length they reached the bottom of the mountain, and, looking back, saw it presently vanish; and through the vast opening in the foundation-clouds where it had stood, Davie thought she spied Johnnie, far below upon the earth; but could by no means be sure of this, --*    BRAZEN GATES.       "  for she had lost the jewel whereby she had been wont to see into the distance.- Her doubts were soon ended, for the friendly south wind, who had saved her life by bearing thither little Johnnie's warm sighs, now came toward her, laden with the balmy fragrance of the water-lily, and Davie knew the odor, and recognized her sister. The youth and maiden followed the dove as she flew slowly before them, and soon they essayed to hold converse with one another. Many and strange were the questions asked by the boy of the unknown earth from which the maiden had wandered. "Are there any others like thee ?" he would say; and Davie always answered, " Yea, there be many maidens in the world." Then would the boy laugh to himself, and exclaim, "Oh that I were there! Only show me, beautiful Davie, where I can find folk like thee ! , She always answered, with a smile, "I will surely lead thee to the green, wonderful world, where thou mayest find.them    of whom thou speakest." Sometimes they would join hands and run over the crisp white path, singing the while a little rhyme, which sounded right sweet when one heard it made vocal by their fresh young lips: ... 78     BRAZEN GATES. "Over the snow Lightly we go, Frolicking merrily, Tripping cheerily,  While the skies laugh at us, And the winds chaff at us; What care we Where the journey's end be, So long as each other's Face we see?." Then they would stop, all out of breath, and go slowly for a while, only to begin the same gladsome race over again.   But matters went not always in such happy fashion. Davie, in- deed, felt a strange tenderness for this beautiful boy, who seemed to rely upon her so completely; and yet he showed her not the slightest token of affection.- He never helped her when the way, was rough; he never even thanked his gentle friend  for the food she gave him- from    that brought her by the dove, though, often enough, her own share was but small. - Alas! dear youth,) she cried one day, when their lengthened shadows, reaching far over the white snow-crust, told how long they had-been walling, "I cannot go one step further; I am so weary!" "Thinkest thou that we shall ever reach the ' earth, if we journey at this pace?" returned the ,/   BRA ZEN GATES.       79A  stripling. "The ice melts, not slower off the boundaries of my father's kingdom in winter- ; time, than we move toward thy tree." "If thy desire is to go on, I can still travel a little longer," answered Davie. "I will not keep thee back." So she mended her pace, and, draw- ing her white cloak about her face, turned away from her companion, and wept for very weari- ness.  "Tell me about the earth," said the youth, after a pause.  "What lies on the ground  there a " "Grass," answered the maiden, with a smile,  "and trees with great green leaves, and sweet fruit and flowers, and- all manner of fair, bright ' things. The sky. is- right blue, and the thin, 'fleecy clouds sail over it. - The Lord puts them there as toys for poor children whb have nothing. else to play with. Thou canst see every beau- tiful thing imaged by these white creatures. Once I beheld the wheat-sheaves bowing down to Joseph; and once the Son of Man, coming in the clouds of his. glory. If they should ever make picture-books for little folk, these would be far more fair, since Christ himself changes the images every day."  d "Well, well," quoth the other, ' talk, if thou canst, of something besides the clouds, for which * 4 *v   80      BRAZEN GATES. I care nothing at all. When I reach the earth, and the maidens there, I will soon be quit of thee and thine .eternal prate of mists and mysteries, or, what is worse, thine unmaidenly chatter about strange men-that Joseph, for example. Tell me about a tourney. Do they fight with battle- axes, or swords?" At length they came to the tree whither Davie had ascended so long before, and now, as then, she beheld its slender top piercing into heaven. Her heart stirred as she looked upon its familiar outlines; and once more she felt an intense de- sire to mount upon the lessening branches into those blest retreats, where, as she believed, the beloved spirit of her mother wandered. Should she renew her attempt The way was still open. Or ought she to go with this strange companion to the earth? Full well the maiden knew that, as she now decided, she must abide, for never again could she summon courage to reconquer the dread ascent. She hesitated, and looked long and tenderly at the cold, careless face of her friend. Presently a cloud crossed the per- fect features. "Why dost thou linger?" quoth he, impatiently. "I desire to see the earth, on which thou sayest this tree stands. Let us make haste and descend." But Davie, with a tiouble in her heart, an- /   BRAZEN GATES.       81 swered, "I think to climb higher. Wilt thou not be content to go down alone? The way is easy. As for me, why should my going else- where trouble thee a? Then the youth cried, angrily, "Thou wilt leave me thou wilt leave me! No, thou shalt not mount upward!" and he shook the massive trunk with such a force of anger that the great limbs bent even as willow wands in his hands. Soon he changed his manner, and said, humbly, like a little child, "Wilt thou not go back with me? I need thee. I am lonely without thee." Davie answered, "I will return with thee, and I will not part from thee so long as we shall both of us be living in the wide world, whither we go.5 At this the youth smiled joyfully, and,' tak- ing the slender girl in his arms, bore her safely across the rotten, swinging bridge, into the broad branches of the tree. They had hardly begun their downward jour- ney, when the Ice-King, looking from his throne, beheld his son descending with a strange earth- maiden, his palace spoiled; and, worse than all the rest, a vast rent made in the foundations of his kingdom.  Then was he exceeding angry, and he sent a cold breath from his nostrils after the children, 4*   BRAZE1N GA TES.        .  and immediately the leaves of their green ladder grew brown, and withered upon their stems, or else, changing into crimson and orange glory, floated whirling and eddying down to earth. Very far asunder were the leaves parted. Some fell softly upon the great oceans, some dropped upon the deserts, and some glanced down among the houses in dusty towns, where nothing so pure as a frost-stained leaf had lighted for a long time. They shone so red and golden in their fall, that men thought them sparks and flakes of fire descending upon the earth, and, dropping upon their knees, many prayed fervently to be spared in the day of judgment, which they believed at- hand. But now, when, at night, we see the slky red and flaming, we need feel no fear; it is only the tree casting its leaves before the breath of the Ice-King, as he pursues his flying children.   CFAPTE'R VlI.   "Oh, somewhere, meek, unconscious dove, That sittest ranging golden hair, And glad to find thyself so fair, Poor child that waitest for thy love." TENNYSON.   OME time after the events I last record- ed, the Falcon and Johnnie were sit- ting together beneath the calm Egyptian stars. They scarce spoke to one another, each seeming absorbed in his own bitter fancies, until at last the bird broke silence, exclaiming: "Listen while I sing to thee. Of a truth, the tale hath been all day running in my head." "I would hear no more of thy stories," an- swered Johnnie, pettishy; "thy legend of the poor, forsaken Pansy hath rendered me miserable ever since I heaid thee sing it. I ween I was full unhappy enough before." "It would seem not," replied the Falcon, com- posedly, "since thou art by no means too badly off to hear another after the same sort. Only   84        BRAZEN ' GATES. listen now, and mayhap, my troubled thoughts being told, I shall be able to devise some pleas- ant pastime, whereby we will both be rendered lighter-hearted. "'Have thine own way, good bird," answered Johnnie; " it were an ill deed to deprive thee of the pleasure of relating thine unhappy thoughts, since I could never break silence, were I to for- bear speaking my own." The Falcon raised his brown feathers for a moment, and shut, his eyes, as if collecting his ideas, and then began: "1 Once a little blue-fringed gentian Grew a glacier beside; All day she looked at the heaven, And dreamed of the ice-fields so wide. "' (I ne'er can be aught to the snow-field,' She said, with a sigh, But my blossoms I'll yield right gladly, His skirts to beautify. "'Perchance he will glance upon me At eventide, When, in robes of scarlet glory, He woos the sun for his bride. "' I am naught but a poor, weak flow'ret, And my blooms are few and small, But, were every leaf a kingdom, To him rd give them all.'    i  .BRAZEN             GA TES.        85 '( Then the mighty glacier answered her, 'The sun is naught to me; Of all the world of women, I choose but only thee. ( He held his sinewy arms wide The fragile maid to clasp; But his frigid breath fell on her, And she withered in his grasp. ' Poor little blue-eyed maiden, Thy tender, gentle soul, Couldn't melt the vasty glacier, Whose pulse in ice doth roll. ," But he stretched himself above her, Where her lifeless form doth sleep; - And he built his frozen barrier O'er her grave, so dark and deep." The singer ceased, and raised his wings from their snowy cushion, as many a speaker feigns to yawn at the conclusion of his speech.   But John- "i.   nie said, complainingly, "Why wilt thou forever  be telling me such sad legends?   Thou knowest An   full well'that I am  rendered tenfold more un- happy by thy heart-rending fables." :"Fables-!" quoth the Falcon, angrily.    ( I  speak the sober truth, girl.  There never comes aught but ill when the children of earth strive to mate with the sons of the Ice-King.     Why, a i    canary might as well take a Guinea-fowl for a i    i                -     86      BRA ZEN GATES. husband! E ven now thy sister suffers from her" ill-judged love. Fables, forsooth! I could weep, myself, when I think of it." a Prithee, weep then," said Jolhnnie, tartly, "only render me not uncomfortable with thine idle tales." And she shook her pretty self in childish anger; but anon broke down, and, bow- ing her head, sobbed most bitterly; and the Fal- con, touched by her tears, forgot the saucy words, and, flying to her shoulder, with many a gentle caress croaked out his grief that the foolish song had caused her sorrow. "There is one thing I never heard thee do," quoth the maiden, pacified at last. "What is that-?" asked the unsuspecting Fal- con. "I would gladly please thee, child." C" row," said Johnnie. "I have always de- sired to hear thee crow." "Thinkest thou that a Falcon :gentil. is no more than a mere low-born cock-a-doodle, that he should be requested to do so vulgar an act? 9 replied the bird, with a look of awful scorn. ' I meant not to offend thee," answered wicked Johnnie. "I supposed all birds did." "Let it pass," returned he. "I will not be angry at thy ignorance. Women so much re- semble hens in the matter of their continual a   -I ^     sBRAZEN GA TES.        87  cackling, that it is no marvel thou shouldst fall into the error." After this the maiden wisely held her peace, I llltil the Falcon began again. "Stay! I will sing thee another rhyme," whispered he,; "one that yon stern goddess told me, after the Sleep- God spread his downy white mantle over thee. I know not if it will please better, but thou canst listen and try. I myself found it very full of comfort. Have patience! He who would be first In this rough world, must learn to wait; The sands of time shift thick and fast, And hide the temples of the past;, They only make them longer last: Qui patit vincit omnia. "' Have patience! The great rolling wheels Turn very slowly on their axle-bars; And very slowly grind the vasty mills Whereby the gods do work their changeless wills. Who best can wait, his wishes time fulfils: Qui patit vincit omnia."'  "Methinks thy song grows more dismal at each repetition," said Johnnie, with a fresh burst- of tears. "Slowly, indeed, must turn those rusty old mill-stones, since they grind me no, deliver- ance from this. dreary prison. Here have I lan- gaished for months, and not one bit of -comfort * -.*                 '   - I!   88      BRA ZE N GATES. has Heaven sent me in all the long time. Alma- nazar may well forget me, if he have not already done so. I shall be both ugly and old when he at last comes to my deliverance." "I thought my rhyme would have given -thee pleasure, little one," answered the Falcon, sadly. "I see now that age has stolen my most valued talent, even the tact that once enabled me, through the memory of my childish griefs, to comfort troubled children." "I am no child," quoth Johnnie, sharply; and then, ashamed of her petulance, and touched by the gentleness of her feathered friend, she added, "Thou art no poor comforter, either; thou art my dear, dear old fellow-sufferer." "Not so very old," said the Falcon, straighten- ing himself; but Johnlie continued, unmindful '^i': of the Interruption: '"If it had not been for thee,'I should have died long ago." Then she kissed fondly the- smooth brown' head he reached round to her rosy mouth, and fingered the wrinkled claws that rested on her dimpled shoul- der. "-No, thou art not old; thou lookest right youthful," she said, after a pause. Thinkest so? I am quite as old as thy father," quoth he, flattered by her words; " and he was an old man when he died." "How canst thou say that ." returned John- :,  *            .   BRAZEN GATES.        89 nie, astonished. "What dost thou know of him? iHe went long since, when I was but a babe."' "He might easily have entered into his rest ere thou camest into the world,--and yet have scarce a growth of moss on his grave; yea, have hardly been buried since yester eve," said the bird, provokingly. At this Johnnie shook her shoulders in such a warmth of indignation,- that the Falcon could not keep his place, and so flew over to the statue, and drooped his wings 'crossly, while the maiden / tapped the sand with her little foot, and said, again, "He died when I was a mere child." "I know that," returned the other, W' aad I say that that was not such a great while ago. But be not ill-humored, little one. I knew thy father. He was the rough old wood-cutter who hewed down the tall forest-trees in order to buy food for his little ones. So very poor was he, I marvel they starved not when the red-breasts had scat- tered their tribute of leaves over his bosom."' "He was a good father, and too tender-hearted to harm even a little bird," quoth Johnnie, who thought she perceived a tone of contempt run- ning through the voice and words of her high- born friend. "That is more than thou canst say. Thou wouldst kill a chicken not a day out of the egg, and feel no sorrow for it."   90   '   BRKAZEN GATES..q "Long as I have worn feathers, I have ab- stained from such ungentle deeds," replied the bird, solemnly; and then he kept silence so long, that Johnnie, fearing lest his feelings were hurt, asked, "What didst thou when thou wast young 2 " "I married, and reared my children. What else could I do?." said he, ungraciously. "What did they live on?" persisted the maiden, bent on mischief, and seeking to entangle him in his talk. "Thou didst hardly feed them on poor little worms!" 'They lived on all sorts of garden-stuff," an- swered he, musing. "There was a garden close by the nest, .where they found enough to eat, both of them." . "Garden 1" sighed Johnnie, catching at the word. "Would I were' once more in that one where Davie and I lived so peacefully! Why, ah, why did I wander from those green retreats!" " Because thy pin-feathers being come out, and thy wings being something grown, it was high time to try thy strength," quoth the other. a I wouldn't stop to pick the eyes out' of a bird that hadn't spirit enough to fly when the season came for leaving the nest. No, no; it is Heaven's law, that when the young eaglet is fledged, he must go forth and take his share in the battles of life; and those parents who keep their children /    '    BRA ZEN GSATES.      91' I  fast at home, surveying the world like cuckoos with their heads out of knot-holes they have grown too large to slip through, must even find those children's lives deformed, and the babes themselves forever burdens on the hand that reared them. Have patience-only have pa-. tience, dear child,' he added, affectionately. "Patience! I have had enough of patience!" cried the unhappy maid. Even as she spoke, there was a whirring of wings in the air, and a great stork alighted at their feet. H ie folded his pinions, and stood for a moment looking at the maiden out of his bright eyes. ( At length," said he, bowing his neck toward her, as she shrank back fr6m him in doubt as to his errand, " at length I am come to deliver thee firom this dreadful prison. Only mount my back, and we will fly far away together, over the blue sea, to where the- handsome knight seeks vainly his lost darling." "Thou wilt do no such thing," cried the Fal-l con, hastily; "thy time is not yet come. Still a little longer must thou wait, ere deliverance reaches thee. Tarry a few days here with me, and all will be well." The red blood dyed Johnnies cheeks as she   92      BRA ZEN GATES.  heard; but she took away the hand which she  had laid upon the Stork in order to mount him.  "Wilt thou be governed by a silly old fool of a Falcon?" hissed the latter. "Methinks thou shouldst rather guide and command his deeds. Considerhe knows not what he asks." "He is no fool," began the maid, indignantly; "he who says so, lies in his throat." And she turned resolutely away. "Truly, I spoke without thought. I crave pardon,", answered the Stork, bending his arched 'neck lowly before the angry maiden. "But still I' think- he can scarcely be in his right senses, who would ask thee to give up the only chance of deliverance thou'lt have perhaps in years, for a whim-a dislike he has taken to the means whereby it is to be effected. Think well ere thou refusest."- Johnnie still kept her face averted, yet turned herself more and more toward the subtle speaker. "Johnnie, Johnnie, I beg-I command thee to stay!" cried the Falcon, anxiously, beseechingly. But the maiden, hearing again the offending words, shQok her head in anger, and exclaimed: "Thou art right, good messenger; I will not stay here amid the rolling sand-waves, only to be  lectured and ordered by a stupid, disagreeable bird, who half the time knows not what he talks;" /   BRAZEN GATES.       93 and clasping her arms about the neck of the Stork, they rose instantly into the air. "As is thy pleasure. Take thine own course, and suffer the penalty," answered the -insulted Falcon. "Thou wilt be sorry enough for this, ere long." "We are even, now, old Stick-in-the-Mud! Thou'lt need to try again, ere thou canst rescue thy pretty bantling!" hissed the Stork, as he flew upward. The bird left in the lonely, ruined temple, stood watching them as they disappeared, and, when the last faint speck became invisible even to his far-reaching eyes, shook his head sadly, and said, as if to bring the new misfortune home to himself, "Now must I follow her into some fresh sorrow. Heaven alone knows what misery lies in store for us all! The desert-wind does not more surely bring heat, than yon snaky witch sorrow. Wretch, to address me thus!" He was not left long to his musings, for soon a large and brilliant caravan entered the temple. At its head rode a young and beautiful knight, mounted upon a snow-white camel, and the robes and tents and trappings of the attendants were white and golden in hue. The youth looked long and carefully among the ruins, as if seeking some missing object, and  - 94     BRAZEN GA TES. at last dismounted by the ,little spring, whose waters had already ceased to flow. He leaned against the stony goddess, and sighed sorrowfully to himself. "I hoped that I might at last have found my treasure," he said at length. "This spot has been blessed with her presence, of a surety; for, be- hold the withered lilies where the rill hath but lately been running. Alas! I only reach the place to find my jewel stolen, my pearl lost." "The bird hath but now left the nest," quoth the Falcon, flying down to the shoulder of the knight. "A white stork flew away with her a moment since. I know not where they are fled; but, at all events, we can seek them together. :Here is the magic jewel the careless jade left in the sand." "Thou!" said the other, not altogether pleased at the prospect of such a companion. "What canst thou do?" "Even so saucy a shanghai as thou, wilt make but bad work without my help,'" returned the bird, in displeasure. Then, after a little, he added, more gently: "I cannot blame thee; thou shalt presently see that I am needful for thy success. Only let me stand here upon thy shoulder; and, since I am weaker than thou, !   BRAZEN GATES.       95 promise to defend me, should any danger come *upon us."  The youth, much wondering at this strange adventure, still gave his knightly word to do as the Falcon wished; and the latter, installed in his place, said, in joyful tones, "Now'let thine attendants follow us with all speed, and do thou urge thy camel forward quickly; mayhap we can reach the Nilus before moonrise." F          / ' -   .   - -e CHAPTER   IX. "How should I thy true love know From another one? Oh! by his cockle hat and staff, And by his sandal shoon." SHATRGSPEARE. f  MONG the cities of beautiful Frankland ' there wandered a tall, slender maiden, ,Js  whom the knights and ladies learned to call Fleur de Passion, for they thoughther an emblem of unsatisfied longing. Her nervous manner, her restless eyes, and hectic cheek, might indeed form no unlike type of love's consuming flame; while her gentleness and kind heart made her beloved alike by all. Not that she sought either friendship or favor of any; for she never spoke, but to ask the one question that lay always on her lips. Whether she accosted peasant or prince, armed knight or lady fair, or little prattling child scarce escaped from its nurse's arms, she ever pressed the one   BRAZEV- GATES. G      97 inquiry, ever turned sorrowfully away as she heard the oft-repeated reply: "Hast thou seen my love wandering anywhere? Thou mightest have known him by his fair face and noble mien." When they answered, "Nay; but we have seen, daily, great store of noble heroes such as thou speakest of," she shook her head, and said, meekly: /"If thou hadst seen-- my love, thfou couldst- not have mistaken him, for he is more noble than any of these."5 Because of her beautiful face and gentle voice, many bold knights would willingly have laid- - lance in rest for her; but she always refused- their help, saying, sweetly: "Trouble not yourselves, noble sirs. ' Full well I know how your kind hearts would prompt ye to ride forth for a distressed damsel; but, alas! none but I can ever aid my lost one. Only, should he chance to cross your path, say to him that Fleur de Passion wanders the whole world over for his sake."  Once, as she journeyed thus hi Brittany, she spied a maiden sitting forlorn by the wayside. Great pity had the gentle Passion-Flower for all distressed hearts, and full/well she knew how the steps that carry the feet on Christ's blessed s S-    98      BRA ZEN'- GATES. errands take away the weary length-of a journey, even though they seem to lead us backward on the path. Intent on comforting' the sorrowing one, she hastened on, but, ere she reached the place, a bright-mailed nmight rode thither. "Canst thou guide me to the fair Chrysanthema, that maid of nut-brown tresses, who ever sits lonely, weep- ing?" quoth he. "I have returned from my long pilgrimage to the Robber Castle, and, hav- ing set free the captives, hasten to bear my honors to her feet."- "Is that the damsel yonder?" asked the Pas- sion-Flower. "See, she sits friendless by the road."' "Even so," answered the knight, and,!nodding kindly his head, defended by a trumpet-crowned helm, he hurried forward, while the kind wan- derer went another way. At last Brittany and sunny Fralnkland saw her no more, and the flushing cheeky and mayhap the falling tear, no longer troubled those whom the poor child had been wont to question. But the - gentle maiden never left off her journey. Full often the noonday sun beat pitilessly upon her aching head, and the cold night-dews wet her weary limbs; but she' made no complaint, nor ceased at all to labor in her onward course. /   BRBAZXV GTES.          99 Ever there flew with her in her journey a silver- feathered dove, who sometimes circled joyously about her/head, or sometimes rested on her shoul- der; or, if the wind swept by them    too angrily, nestled in the soft shelter of her mistress' bosom. So often  'did the :faithful Passion-Flower re peat her timid inquiry to the passers-by, that she learned to form   thence a tender bit of rhyme. She was wont to sing it to those she met, and her plaintive tones so sadly swept the ieart-strings of her listeners, that they turned away, sobbing for very pity.  Sometimes, when    the wanderer saw a fair young girl hastening along the roadwith a fresh-plucked rosebud in her little hand, and a soft light shining in her eyes, she would draw' near, and sing: "Oh, canst thou to my poor heart tell Aught of my love? Where shadows on the green grass fell, / Down in the faintly-whispering dell, There stood the form thou knewest so well- Thy love. "Say, maiden, hast tou, wanderifng there Beheld my   love?. Thou'lt know him by his face so fair, His manly speech and accents rare, His noble port and gallant air- My love."* V/de Percy's!"Reliques."   100      BRAZEN GA TES. Then the listener, noting her eager eyes and the paling of her hollow cheek as she answered not, would often press a kiss upon her lips, and drop a silver coin into her hand, as she made reply: "Heaven help thee, poor sister! I know naught of thy truant one." The Passion-Flower always took the little gift, and when she reached a wayside shrine, meekly kneeling there, she would offer it again to the Holy One who on earth bore our griefs *and car- ried-our sorrows; for she said, "It is meet that I' should return to Him w-hat was given me for --His dear sake." Often she would sing to a sorrowing woman, whose mourning raiment was the least index of her grief: ' Say, mother, since thou saidst adieu To thy soul's love, Hast thou not seen that youth so true , With lip of red and eyne. of blue, And brow as calm as heaven to view-- My love?"       . And the stricken one would make reply: Gko in peace. I have seen him   not. May  God deal less bitterly with thee than with me!" Then the poor maid ofttimes exclaimed, de- -spairingly .   BRAZEN GAATlES.       1:01 "Ah, whither shall I turn my feet, To find my love? Speak, sanded lists, where knights compete Answer me, flowers, with lips so sweet I Oh, tell me, winds, where I can meet My love!" But since neither maid nor matron, nor yet the winds, on whom she so plaintively called, could answer her, the poor child would 'often draw her veil about her head and weep bitterly, as she felt more and more how hopeless was her search. Not seldom, when she thus wept, she left the broad highway, and, kneoeling beneath the swing- ing branches, whose shadows traced and retraced their steps over the-turf with dainty tread, she poured out her sorrows at the feet of the tender All-Father who gave her life. Then her troubled thoughts became peaceful, and the weight rolled gently out of her heart; a holy delight took possession of her soul, and she walked joyfully along the pathway, feeling neither weariness nor pain, sure of the safe fulfilment of her wishes. At such times the maid frequently gave vent to her gladness -by singing hymns:; but quite as often little songs framed themselves- upon her lips, and she could not choose but give them voice. She loved to picture to herself the abode of her lost one; the beautiful retreats where he   102       BRAZED GATES. wandered seemed real to her, and thus, by fancy, did she make his happiness her own. Such a song was this: "Somewhere have I a love: Where doth he lie? Where spring white-fountains nigh, Soft murmuring through the shaded groves-- Where fainting insects steal away to die, And live again; Aurora stores her colors for the sky There; there burdened breezes sigh Their love-songs as they wearily do rove." But dauntless as was the Passion-Vine, mortal limbs cannot always bear out the will of the brave heart that commands them; and one night, when she had wandered over the high road the whole day long, she sank exhausted upon the ground in a little wooded dell that lay scarce a stone's throw from the roadside. In vain the dove brushed with shining wings against her face, and strove, by pretty cooing and dainty caresses, to comfort her. Her mis- tress smoothed her feathers with listless hand, and, leaning her head against the gnarled roots of a-great oak, talked thus sadly with herself: "The path to the garden is near my feet," she cried, "but I ween my poor heart will break long before I can reach its dear shades. I feel, alas! that my journey's end is near; but my / i   BRAZEN GATES.        103  love strays as far from my sick eyes as ever be-- fore. If I must die, how sweet to breathe out my soul within the limits of that close-hedged retreat that protected my youth, before care stole, one by one, my childhood's toys, and gave me only empty memories and bitter regrets to fill that place!"  Now she heard a wondrously sweet voice at her side, and, looking down, beheld a woman's face peering from-out the half-closed leaves of a scarlet poppy.  "Ah! my sister," cried the maiden, "would I were, like-thee, a flower, grow- ing out of the warm earth at rest! Then, neither care nor sorrow could disturb my peaceful life, and I should not be forced to die thus homeless and heart-broken."  cArt thou so very weary?" asked the Poppy. "I am  never tired. Each morning brings the sun for a playfellow, and each evening sleep to fit me for the new day." "Once I was even so happy," quoth the maiden, "but now the morning brings only the day's labor, and even but drops a curtain on the night's wakefulness. Memory will not stiffer me to rest." The Poppy nodded her head thoughtfully, and, shaking the urn she held, till its rounded treasures made a silvery accompaniment to her ,.   104        BRA ZEN GATES. clear, bell-like voice, sang, in    drowsy 'fashion, thus: Beneath the world, with tranquil murmur, Run the waves of sleep: Never weaker, never firmer, That current, black and deep.  "Through my veins the bitter waters Flow with sluggish tide: In .my bosom lie my daughters, Black and hazel-eyed. -' At the early dawn of summer I was born: Two green coats, by fur made warmer, Clad my form. - White and scarlet are the dresses Of my blossom's pied: Down my bosom flow my tresses, Half my breast to hide. ' When the night-wind wanders sighing, I forget the dawn; When on earth my blooms are lying, Naught of pain is born. - u I feel neither joy nor sorrow; , From decay, or bloom, Nought of pain my life can borrow- Sleep reigns in their room. ' In my bosom lies a casket; Milky seeds of rest Fill it. Take it, ye who ask it, From my quiet breast.   BRA ZEN GA TES.      10 5 "And the current of my life-blood, In your veins, Shall allay each bitter soul-mood, Till sweet sleep remains." The maiden looked upon-the sparkling face of the singer, and, as the clear, sweet tones rang upon her entranced ear, she seemed  already lapped in the refreshing slumber promised, and the peaceful rest even then began -to still her fevered pulses. She leaned toward the flower to receive the offered boon, when a sudden doubt stayed her hand. "Tell me, beautiful sister, will thy bitter draught still all my pain?" quoth she. Yea," answered- the Poppy, with a silver laugh. "None sorrow more, who drink of my cup; there is no memory in the bosoms of my children." "Alas! my sorrow lies' deep in my heart," sighed the Passion-Flower, "and, I ween, thou must still its poor beatings if thou wouldst quench my agony."  "Thou needst only to forget, and all is well with thee," quoth the Poppy, nodding her head slowly. "See, I do not remember. I am happy." "Can I retain naught of my life? Are there no memories that I can reserve, no scenes that may be recalled?" 5*   106      B BRAZEN GATES. "None;" said the Poppy.  "Thou wilt be even such as I." Now, before the fancy of the half-dreaming damsel began to arise the memories from which she thought to part. First she saw the dim shadows of the forest creeping over her head, and the shining spring, and the hollow, squirrel-haunted trees, and the little cottage lay clear and familiar before her. Her father entered the open doorway; rugged and old as was the once stalwart form, yet the maiden strained her tear-dimmed eyes to catch a glimpse of the averted face. "Say," she cried, "must I give up his image forever? Shall I never more behold my father's face?." The cot- tage-doors closed behind the tottering figure, and the echoes seemed to take 'up the sorrowful re- frain, as the Poppy answered, softly, "Never more." Next came the laughing, bright-eyed Johnnie, far away now, but still not less beloved. As the dreamer gazed upon her, she suddenly grew pale and thin, and wrung her hands, and wept pite- ously, and cried, "Alas! alas! that I should be forced to die here, uncared for, alone! Davie! Davie! canst thou forget me thus?" "Speak!-can I not keep one memory  May not I treasure up my sister's image, if only as indistinct as when we were children, long, long /  *  '. SE  , '  '   BRAZEN GATES.       107 ago?" begged the maiden. "Oh, Johnnie, my darling-my all! how shall I give thee up!" "When thou wouldst part with one, thou canst not keep another," said, the flower, coldly. "Why shouldst thou sorrow for the image of a child  She will not live the less because her remem- brance is blotted out of thy heart." Last were visions of the garden-home, and the mossy grave, and finally the great white palace, with its dim, pale light, and the beautiful boy for whom she had sought so far and so patiently. Fleur de Passion looked long and earnestly at his flushed features. Hie tossed restlessly, -and -mur- mured in his sleep, "Davie!' Davie! where art thou? Come-I need thee!" "I come! I come!" she cried. "I cannot, will not, forget thee!" She rose hastily, and turned to leave the dell, when the Poppy called to her: "Wilt thou not drink of my cup, and be at peace? I offer not the draught to every one. I would fain aid, thee." But the maiden, looking upon her heartless face, made answer: "God forbid'! Thy peace is naught but self- ishness, and thy forgetting, death. Rather, a thousand times, suffer, than take thy boonand its awful sequence. Welcome misery, if ifleads me to my loved ones!    108      BRAZEN. GATES. "Poor fool!" quoth the Poppy, without anger or concern. ' All mortals are even so." The dove, who had flown away, filling the air with frightened, angry cries, when her mistress began to listen to the beguiling voice of the Poppy, now returned joyfully, and nestled again in her well-loved shelter. Davie hurried along the road, forgetfull of all save the boyish face that ever-seemed to beckon her onward. Suddenly she paused; at her very feet rolled a rapid stream, whose sullen waves gave no sound to the listening ear; whose bosom, wrapped about with the sombre vesture of night, betrayed itself by no transient glimmer to the eye, until the maiden stood upon its very banks. Something lay on its surface close by the shore, rising and falling with-the noiseless waves. Davie scarcely glanced at it, as she stepped into its hollow forth. "God help me!'" she cried. "Anything, to end this dreary search!" Then the boat moved slowly from the shore, and the maiden, feeling her eyelids heavy with sleep, lay v down in the cup-like hollow of her strange bark, and wasspeedily wrapped in slumber. But the dove, rising softly from her nest, flew on before the rocking boat, cooing gently now and then, as if luring it over the waves. -   CHAPTER X. "We've scotched the snake, not killed it.  She'll close, and be herself, whilst our poor malice Remains in danger of her former tooth." SHAKESPEARE. HE   very evening in which the young knight arrived among the ruins, he took his way with the Falcon toward the Nilus. Much did these strange companions dis- course as they pursued -their journey, and the homely wisdom    of the bird pleased right well the youth; though not a whit less did his own manly bearing and courteous fashions find favor with his strange guide.   As the stripling related his adventures, the great stars passed steadily above the desert-the only moving things, save the little caravan, to be seen in all the vast ex- panse of sand, over- which the camel sped with steady foot.  Almanazar dwelt most of all upon the events that occurred as he wandered onward toward the buried palace, and a   few questions. from  the  Falcon drew  forth the whole story.   "O     -BRAZEN GATES., Sometimes, as he went on, the eyes of the bird would seem alight with sudden passion, and some- times he would put a sharp query to the youth; but, for the most part, the strange tale proceeded quietly, and in nearly these words: "As I lay asleep in the yellow moonlight at the foot of the vast mound, I heard faint music arising out of the earth. Louder and louder grew the strains, until at last, swelling into a mighty cadenza, they trembled a moment upon the ear, and then all became still. Now the sides of the mountain began to crack, and shrink to- gether, while over the whole played an intense blue light, pale, indeed, in color, but so wonder- fully clear that for a moment I became blind. ' On the top of the mound stood a woman half hidden, half revealed, by the -flaminig smoke- wreaths that ever curled- upward from the earth. She was covered by the shimmering brightness as with a garment, and while she stood gathering up her long tresses, whose jetty hue made itself visible through the overhanging flame, the'moun- tain groaned and trembled like some wild thing panting to be let loose. "The lady shook out her wonderful hair, chant- ing clearly her song the while; and as the meas- ured cadences fell upon the air, the likht seemed to separate, and the mound was crossed and. re-                 .               BRAZEN  GATES.       " crossed by dark curling lines, that twisted and writhed among the flames. Then, as the song ceased, they began to coil around the singer, over her dimpled arms, and around her slender neckl  and I perceived, in horror, that while they were in truth the flowing tresses of thealady, every fall- ing ringlet was a hissing snake, curling far below- her feet adown the ground. "This is the song: go where I will, it follows me, and ofttimes I start from my slumber, dream- ing that the frightful scene is being again lived; and the fevered beatings of my own heart seem to be the mighty throbs of the mountain, as it trembles beneath the feet of the sorceress: - Ye mould'ring walls, so long forgot,  , Ye halls, Assyria's greatest pride, Shake off the mould, decay, and rot: Open your carven portals wide! "' Awake, and taste once more of blood! Awake, and slake your thirst for-tears, And, lapping up the crimson flood, Forget the pangs of hungry years!" Instantly, as the dame ceased, she began little by little to sink downward into the earth; and, overcome by sleep, I leaned my head upon -my arm, and fell into a trance. I now not how long it continued, but when I came to myself the mound arose before me bare and sere no   BRAZEN GATES. more, but beautiful with stone terraces and sculp- tured staircases, and crowned by a wondrously magnificent palace. "Thither came presently a lady passing fair. Her perfumed robes rustled in the still, clear night. As she began to mount the steps, she beckoned me to fellow. Thrice I essayed to obey, but the twisted stems of the water-lilies which guided me thither every time wove them- selves into an impassable barrier around my feet. "Now the voice of my beloved Delight seemed to call to me from the enchanted halls, behind the swinging curtains, and the lily-stems gave way, as I hastened with flying steps toward the castle. When I reached -the sculptured staircase, there came from the lofty courts a confused sound of clanging arms, and hoarse cries of men and animals, mingled with the crash of falling timber. The face of the beckoning lady became the face of a fiend, and hissing snakes replaced the curling tresses that draped her dazzling shoul- ders. '"Filled with terror for the safety of Delight, I paused not in my efforts to scale the now crumb- ling staircase, when suddenly a wild shriek, clear above all the din,-filled my ears, and stopped the pulses of my heart. At the same time the heavy perfume of the lotus-blossoms floated up into my   .                  .   4,   face, causing an awful sense of faintness. Not able to see or think, I staggered an instant,'and a second time fell swooning to the ground.- Full of sorrow is the memory of that night; long have I sought the cause which led Heaven to condemn me to such a part in its perils. If it had not been that my lady looked- Upon me with pitying eyes as I lay outstretched ii cowardly slumber, I had surely never dared to draw sword again. But by this token I know that she would not have me utterly disgraced, even the golden tress which hangs from my good helm, thrice blessed since consecrated by her holy touch." The Falcon looked keenly at the priceless gift. It hunfg a rippling, shining mass of sunlight from the yellow helm. Then he turned his bright, piercing glances to the blushing face of the youthful hero. He found there no cloud of headstrong passion or unbridled folly to mar the beauteous lines. Even his sharp eyes could de- tect nothing unknightly in the blooming features, yet he answered, in gruff tones, as if not willing to speak: "The tress is Johnnie's, of a surety. Oft have I watched the maiden combing her long locks, and noted how it was her wont to press tender kisses upon the rounded curls. Full often, too, have the bright tear-drops rolled off those wdn-  "4      BRAZEN GATES. drous -masses, when the maid raised her dainty, head, even as dew-drops fall from. the petals-of the yellow garden-lily when the wind sweeps by too roughly. Thou needst not feel so very fine over it, though," he added, jealously. "Many a rainbow-jerkined callant has been wept over, and jilted at the last. But say, hast thou never seen elsewhere that other woman,- the sorceress of the sunken palace? And there is still another I wot of, a slender gray-eyed maiden, pale, with raven tresses. Hast thou never passed her in thy wan- derings?"  I marvel that thou shouldst know aught of this matter," quoth the young knight, too wise to note the earlier part of the Falcon's spee6h, too proud to reply to his ungentle words. 'It is indeed true that I have frequently met these strange women-the one full of wonderfull yet terrible beauty, the other patient and gentle in mien, bearing alway a white dove tin her bosom. Once, long ago, I found her among the snows of the cloud-world, whither I journeyed in search of the Lady Delight. . Had I followed her counsels, my troubles would have been long since ended. Then, she strode bravely over the ground, full of earnest purpose; though, of late, I oftener pass her as she kneels by some wayside shrine in prayer. Many times hath she holpen me qut of   BRAZEN GATES.      115 danger; so that the thought often comes to me, that she is more than mortal. But a short time  since, as I wandered in Brittany, evening came on, and I stayed my horse near a certain half- rutined castle. Lights gleamed through the win- dows, and sounds of merriment floated out of the open doorway. I dismounted, thinking any shelter better than the drenching rain. "A serving-man answered my knock, and led me into the banquet-llall. As I entered, the sounds of mirth came to an end. I found only a knight and lady in the dimly-lighted apartment; they were sitting opposite one another at the upper end of the hall. The features of the dame were not unknown to me, but it was other- wise with the youth, a tall, slender youngling, whose feet could not long have been familiar with the .golden spurs. His face would have been exceeding beautiful, with its crown of sunny locks, if the pliant features had not mir- rored a soul its own chief tormentor. As the twain sat pledging one another in the sparkling wine, their faces ghastly in the scant light of two flickering candles, methought a more fearful pair never pictured themselves upon my eyehblls. "The dame seemed to urge the knight to some deed of hideous violence. ' The tournament will be well foughten at Brierieon the morrow,' quoth , i   - 116   .  BRAZEN GATES. she, 'and thou needst have no fear to lose tle coveted prize. Ilast thou not learned that "if the bough be cut from the tree, the apple will fall with it to the ground "? Only pluck the tall chrysanthemum stall, and its glowing beauty is- thine. It is not hard to deal with the youth. Keen sword-blades make open doors through which to set free the soul; but such as thou need have no fear of them.' ' I will have naught to do with thy hellish plans,' cried the youth, though by no means firmly. 'Thou hast forced me into foul enough crimes already. Find for me, if thou wilt, some simple maiden, the stream of whose quiet life hath been crossed by no stronger current. I will not part true lovers.' "The face of the'lady grew dark as midnight; it almost seemed as if no passing beautiful dam- sel sat in the cushioned seat among the quaint trophies of war that adorned the strange old hall; but a wrinkled, snaky-locked hag, whose bloodless -lips and sunken, bleared eyes, belonged rather to a devil, than any of mortal kind. "' The tender-hearted fool that gave thee life might truly have spared her pains. She only succeeded in waking a woman's cowardice in thy soul, sneered she. Then, of a sudden, her ,"                   * '  '  /    BRAZEN GATES.      117 features returned into the smiling, beauteous sem- blance she was wont to possess. Straightway the youth, livid with rage, sprang to his feet and grasped his sword, but changed his thought as soon, and turned once more to the now gracious being whose poisoned shaft had flown so swiftly to the mark. "'Why should I not fight thy battle ' he said, slowly. 'What worse can I be a and why should not other maidens suffer as well as my poor with- ered flower? Yes, I will indeed do thy bidding this once, hag that thou art! But look to it that thou makest no more mention of-her thou art too foul even to name. What I am, I am; not'what she would have me be.' "' Oh!' replied the dame, I thought thy wits would not be long returning. But come; let us drink to thy success.- After all, thy head lies right- enough, though thy-heart is something out of thy control.' "The youth obeyed as one under a spell, whose will is not his own-; and I shuddered to see that each brimming beaker was, beneath all its golden ornaments, naught otherthan a grinning skull. "' Thou canst get thee a new drinking-cup!' cried the dame. Listen while IL tell thee of these now before us. Thou calledst me "hag" and "devil," and so I am; but such I was not always. 'i    .  I' ' '          .a b   X . ^I^8 '    BRAZEN GATES.       - Once, here in'these very halls, I sat and held my iyearp ld babe, as- unwitting of danger as the freshy-smiling hamlet which, ruddy in the scar- let glory of even, goes gently to rest, little wot- ting the dreadfulavalanche even then tottering on the mountain above, ready to begin its down- ward course. Suddenly there arose a noise of -shouts and clanging arms, and my lord, scarce staying to don his armor, sallied out to the fray. Long I sat in the deserted hall, waiting his':re- turn. At last the sound of coming feet. I rise to welcome him. It is indeed my husband who enters, but--O horror!--pursued by savage foes, v to expire at my feet. The grim, black-bearded leader catches me in his arms, and laughs at my -frantic screams. "Calm thyself-fear not," he j   , says. "I would not harm so small a thing as a woman." He orders the serving-men to set out :.. a banquet. "We will drink together from my new beaker," he cries, in devilish glee. "Thou shalt henceforth- be my loving dame-no bad :;-:- : exchange for yon lump of carrion, either." Si- -- - X lently I watch my time, and then plunge a dag- ger, as I hope, into his heart. Vain attempt! :He draws the harmless weapon from his dress, ;![:; i : exclaiming, moclingly, "Now will we teach this little avenger to play with'toys better fitting her : estate." He drags the body of my murdered ', .^ -                        li!      BRAZEN GATES.       119 lord toward him, and cuts the skull from its pro- tecting muscles. "This is the goblet," quoth he. "We will pledge thy health, fair lady." And, *filling the dreadful cup with sparkling 'mead, "What! wilt thou not drink? Here is a young- ling who won't refuse good mead, even in my priceless bowl." le snatches the, babe from me, and urges the unwitting child to quaff the bloody draught, and the little thing fearlessly dips his fingers in the cup, and spatters the beard of his heartless nurse, who laughs the while at my agony. "Now comes thy turn, gentle mother." I know not what possessed me, but I seized the hideous goblet, and, drinkling the wine to the very dregs, swore by the dripping skull never to rest until I found revenge; and I have gained it. Thou seest the other drinking-cup;,that is the skull of my captor. He. thought my out- break the empty threat of an angry woman. Poor fool! I followed him for years, little by little learned his devil's craft, and then, one night, when he sat drinking, I murdered him- here, in the very spot where he had feasted on my agony, and exulted in the ruin he had brought about." I ' "' But the boy,' cried the young knight, who had never taken his eyes from her face during this horrible tale. ' What became of him?'   120     BA ZEN- GATES. "'I did the best I could for him,' answered the dame; ' but I have never ceased to hate him since he laughed and dipped his hand in his father's bloody skull. He is a good enough youth -very like him whose child he is; but that isno cause for loving him. He reminds me too much of my own villany. Just Heavens! does my. husband stand yonder? Or is it only one of the spectres that forever haunt me?' "She pointed toward the corner where I stood, half hidden by the suit of rusty armor that hung from the damp, mouldy wall. Straightway, as she looked, the wind caught the arras that draped with its tatters the dismal room, and wound me about with its rusty folds. Thus hidden, I stood waiting the event, 6ompelled to remain an. un- willing, guest, and yet one, I trow, not altogether without the right to listen, if need were."' i How is that, seeing that it is an unknightly thing to pry, unwelcome, into another's history?  said the Falcon, suspiciously. "Not if that, other be one's own flesh and blood. Ah! that is surely a different matter. At all events I did stay, and the youth, beholding nothing but the wind-moved hangings, answered that no one haunted the apartment save they two; but even then my mother scarce withdrew her eyes.            t    BRAZEN GATES.      121 '"' We have talked enough of this,' quoth she, shivering. 'Let us speak of something better. Thou wilt need to know thy to-morrow's quarry  when thou enterest the lists. Behold him'!' "Then, on the other side of the room, ap- peared the corpse-like features of a young knight, and. behind him the shadow of a woman's face bathed in tears. 'She is no beauty,' quoth he, who gazed thereon. 'Couldst thou find no fairer maid in- all Brittany than this ' "'When she wipes her eyes, and joy dimples her cheeks, thou wilt tell another tale,' responded the dame. "Then I sprang forward, exclaiming; 'Mother, forbear this wickedness! And thou, Sir Boy, art of a surety no true knight, to have part in such God-cursed crime.' "Instantly the lights vanished, and the youth, drawing his sword, struck at me furiously; while my mother, the author of my perils, stood as if turned into stone. Demons with fiery eyes, bats, devils, and shining snakes that twisted around my feet, crowded the room. A sound as of mighty cataracts falling through unmeasured   " space filled my ears, and I sank to the floor, senseless.  "When I came to myself, 1 lay on the grass under the open- arch of heaven. The castle, and   122      BRAZEN GATES. all its surroundings, had vanished, but the place was far too well known to be forgotten.     - "Over me bent the dove-like maiden, whose    I sorrowful face, so full of quiet gravity, soothed my restless soul into peace. She was washing my wounds, crooning to herself the while a quaint, piteous ballad of a maid seeking the world over for her lost lover. The dove, perched on her shoulder, cooed softly in unison, and I could not but think that it was more the -tender touch of  i the damsel's hands, and the shadow of her ear- lnest, lovely -face, that gave me strength, than the ointment she rubbed so carefully upon my bruised limbs. At length her task was done. ' Sir knight,' quoth she, ' thou needst not fear to ride onward; thy wounds are by no means deep; but ere thou goest forth, answer me one thing:' Hast thou any- where seen my wandering love? He may. per- chance have crossed thy path.' "' God help thee, lady fair!' I answered, I have never seen aught of thy beloved. Would that I had met him, for thy sake!  "Then she wrung her hands, exclaiming, ' Alas!- alas! I was so sure that I kvas near him t! Where else can I wander, whither my feet have not strayed in my fruitless search a' With this, she wound- her veil about her head, beginning to  .                  '   BRABZEN GATES.      123 weep bitterly, and, refiusing my thanks and offers . of assistance, fled swiftly away. " Finding my horse tied where I had left him the night before, I rode down the valley, minded to see the tilt. When I came near, however, I found it long since ended, and I met some who bore a bloody corpse in their arms-the same they said, who had been victor in the melee.   In the excitement caused by his death, the maiden who received his devoirs had vanished, none could tell where. " As I wandered through the deserted lists, I spied lying on the ground a stalk of withered chrysanthemum, which, when I entwined the s same among my lily-blooms, revived, and nestled there right lovingly. Even so thou mayest this day see it, in the wreath which ever hangs from my armor. Now, therefore, I ride more boldly, feeling.that the fate of two maidens hangs upon my shoulders."                       -  The young knight pointed, as he spoke, to the garland of tiny water-lilies, which, entwined with the stalk of chrysanthemum, hung about his neck like a chain of snow, whose marvellous purity is made brighter by a single drop of scar- let blood. The Falcon, who listened with deep attention   124 .     BRAZEN GATES. tothis recital, now straightened himself, and gazed full into the face of his companion. , "Dost thou know naught else about this strange maiden 8 " he asked, anxiously, yet in such a stern, -severe way, as made the youth feel that his very soul lay open to the questioning eyes of the speaker. "Canst thou not tell her race?-her whereabouts?" A As I live," answered he, "I have no other knowledge of the lady than what I have said. It is not one full month since the adventure that I told thee of but now; and I hastened with all diligence from Brittany hither. Ever following my mother's baleful footsteps, I fear she is only another of her victims, who, like myself, wear I out their lives in struggling against her all-per- vading, never-sleeping spells." "In this thou art right, doubtless; but canst thou not tell me who is the youth thou- sawest in the witch-castle 8 He is no new-found com- panion of the sorceress. Thou hadst seen him before . " "I know nothing concerning him," said the knight. "Then thbu art a fool!" quoth thi bird, shortly, and blind as an owl in the daytime be- sides." ,!   CFHA PTER XI. "There will the river whispering run, Warmed by thine eyes more than the sun; And there th' enamelled fish will stay, Begging themselves they may betray. Let curious traitors sleave silk flies, To witch poor wandering fishes' eyes; For thee, thou needst no such deceit, For thou thyself art thine own bait; That fish that is not caught thereby, Is wiser far, alas! than I." DR. DONNE. . jEjKRY swiftly flew  the great stork through the  clear Egyptian  sky, over rivers and plains and  lofty snow-capped mountains, until the blue ocean rolled beneath him.    Further and further they fled, and at last the frightened maiden  beheld a   castle, gray and old, yet with a curious shimmering0 light about it, lying far below. Black waves beat against the rocks down     on the shore beneath; but there was a narrow      moat around the building itself, like a thread of silver, and on -the other side srmiling fields and green forests skirted it; and, finally, a  broad, fair river,    126      BiRA ZEN GATES. lay outstretched behind its weather-beaten walls. Nearer and more near flew the stork in ever- narrowing circles, until at last he reached the ground, and vanished, leaving the maiden stand- ing alone in the desolate garden. The sun, like a child whose cheek is yet flushed  by slumber, shone with ruddy beam upon the     i brazen window-bars of the castle; and the cool breeze shook the dew-drops from the foliage of the tangled weeds that overran the uncared-for terrace, while here-and there a tall lily or bit of rose-bush struggled for life among the strong- limbed intruders. All this Johnnie saw while as yet'she scarce comprehended where she was; like as one look- ing thoughtlessly into a book may ofttimes behold words without taking in their meaning,'and, when he lies down to sleep, recall in dreams the for- gotten sentences. A man's tones, raised half in command, half in entreaty, fell on the maiden's ear, and she followed the sound into a great hall, that must in happier times have been the ban- queting-room of the castle. "S peak," cried a woman's voice, as the maiden entered, "speak, and tell me th1e worst'! What is thy cruel will with me . Oh, let me but die, and cease to torture me thus! Is it not enough   i that my father's castle lies in ruins, and my, lover   BDRAZEN GATES.      127 moulders in the grave, that thou shouldst force" me, a high-born maid, to. abide here against my wishes, and, moreover, to listen to a suit as hope-  less as disgusting?" "And why so very hopeless?" returned the young knight-for such Johnnie beheld the other to be. "True, thou hast no love for me, and of a surety I care nothing for thee; but I desire a soul. Only let me have thee for my wife, and, when I have but gained my coveted prize, I will gladly perinit thee to go far' away from my pres- ence forever. W hat I hope, is, to obtain that wonderful thing, and then, set free from. earth, to rejoin another being Wvho awaits my coming with fond haste." "How can I ever consent to wed thee, good youth?" answered the lady, despairingly. "Thou knowest right well my ,knight is hardly cold, as yet, in the icy palace of death. What avails it to detain me? Knowest thou not that, even should we consummate a heartless marriage, thou wouldst be no nearer the possession of a soul than before? Only the union of two loving hearts can give this. Suffer me but to depart, and I will bless thee all day long. Peradventure I shall at last light upon my, true love's grave, and there will I lay me down to die; or, if I but chance to spy his trusty sword, lying dimmed and hidden b-y the   '128     BRAZEN G ATES. covetous grass, that hath stolen it from an un- worthy world, I will open with its sharp point a door into eternity, and on the bright current shall my life float gently away till it reach my lover's spirit, and my last accents shall speak blessings on thy head." Johnnie gazed with kindling heart upon the fair young girl, who sank upon her knees, and, with great, imploring eyes fixed upon her perse- cutor, begged so piteously for mercy. Straight- way thinking of her purse, and darting forward with the thought, she slipped the magic treasure into the little hand of the weeping one, as, with face of agony, she still strove to move her unfeel- ing jailor. "Fly!" cried the generous maiden, breath- lessly; "fly, poor, stricken sister! In the garden is safety. I will stay and face this stubborn lad in thy place." The other rose stately as the scarlet-berried ash standing erect among the lowlier trees of the forest, and, turning her brown eyes full of gratitude upon. her impulsive friend, fled like a startled fawn from the hall. Then the heart of the little rescuer fell, as she beheld the great blue orbs of the youth fixed full on her own; nevertheless, she stepped boldly be- fore him, and waited for him to speak.   BRAZEN GATES.      129 "I know not why yon foolish runaway should make such a time about it," he said, peevishy. "Surely I would have suffered as much by the bargain as she, though she seemed not to take that into account at all. However, it is quite as well that she is gone. This damsel is far more to my liking. Come, little one; I need a wife. What thinkest thou of me for a husband " "I do not like thee for anything," returned Johnrie, fearlessly, as she surveyed with coolness and yet with modest mien the noble form and handsome face of the youth, who, one might think, would be no unfit mate for any lady fair the whole land through. "Thou art cruel and unfeeling. And, moreover, one true love have I; and one is enough for me." "Hast thou indeed a true love?" cried the youth, sorrowfully. "So had I, once; but I killed her by my wickedness. That is why I wander everywhere, separating those who are happy in each other. Art thou not afraid lest I crush thee also, little maiden?" "No," said Johnnie; "thou art not so very 'bad, after all. Why should I fear thee? Thine accents are not unkind." "Then hear," cried the youth, passionately. "Be my wife. I did not care for the other; but  thou wouldst make me better, and I would love 6*   130  ^   BRAZEN GATES. thee dearly. Oh! if thou didst but know how miserable I am, thou wouldst have pity on me." "Art thou so very unhappy? ." said Johnnie, approaching him, full of sympathy, even as any true woman ought to be in such a case. "I also am worn with sorrow. Come,;let us be miser able together." In truth, she felt a strange liking for this wonderful- wooer, and, though she would not think of his suit, yet was she minded to comfort him, if might be. "There is no one in the whole world more wretched than I," answered he. A But stay!" he added, throwing his arm about her slender waist, "there is a way of escape. Come, be mine, and let us twain, joined in true wedlock, roam the world together. /Lethinks, if so pure a maid as thou wouldst give herself to me, I might forget all the horrible past, and be happy again. Fly with me--let us go!" But Johnnlie snatched herself away, exclaim- ing, c I will- have nothing to do with thee, thou false knight. I want neither thy love nor thy- self. Thou art not to be trusted."' The stalwart youth gazed down at her in amaze, as she stood looking angrily into his face, just out of his reach. A flush of wrath mounted to his forehead, and he made a half step, as if to enforce his will. Suddenly the blood faded out   BRAZEN GATES.   ,    131 of his face, and, hanging his head, he stood be- fore the indignant, girl, and said, with childlike humility, "Be not-angry, good maiden; thou art quite right to chide; but remember, I have no soul." "That is no cause for behaving so as to dis- grace one, if thou hadst it," quoth Johnnie, still angry. "For my part, I am glad thou hast none." The reproof made the youth look still more grave, and he answered, slowly,'? Thou knowest not what thou dost say; therefore be silent, child, for thy words are in part untrue. I swear by the ,  great God I will do thee no harm. Only hear me! Save me fromn myself! I feel so gentle in thy presence-so as I once used to feel, long ago, when a fairer and more patient than thou walked beside me. If thou wilt have gold, here is a castle, whose treasures cannot be numbered. Wilt thou have fame? I will earn thee laurels by my strong right hand. I will bring thee cap- tives in chains. I will build thee ships and rear thee palaces. Only let me dwell beside thee, and be at peace." As the stripling spoke, his features were, con- vulsed with emotion, and great tears fell one after another upon the listener's upturned face. "Be not so very sorrowful, Sir Kniight," said Johnnie, softly, patting his arm as she spoke.   132     BRAZEN GATES.  "It is not possible for me to hear thy request. But if thou wilt only stop to think, thou wilt not ask so foolish a thing of me. Consider, what would thy lady say to thee, should she see thy folly-she whom thou confessest to be so much better and more beautiful than I! Why wilt  thou forget hlr thus? ' "I do not forget her," cried the youth. "My greatest desire is to obtain a soul, and offer it up at her feet; though, alas! I fear I can never  possess so great happiness, seeing that my poor maiden is dead."  "Then live to give her name a lasting glory," quoth Johnuie, her face glowing at the thought.  ' God, the Merciful, hath granted it to the living,  thus to glorify the departed. Thus may the son  cast backward a beauteous mantle over his father's shame; thus may the maiden strew with undying flowers her dear one's memory; thus mayest thou render thy lady's name a blessing. Make it known over the whole world, wherever an honor- able deed of arms or an act of gentle chivalry may find mention. Who can say but she, ap- proving thee, may grant some token of her favor when thou shalt have well acquitted thyself in her cause."  "Thinkest thou she can give me a soul?" - ' 4 . . l   BRAZEN GATES.       133 sked the youth, gazing doubtfully into the laiden's eager eyes. "Only God can do that," answered she; and ren, as she saw the look of despair settling own upon his face, she added: "If thy lady ras as good as thou sayest, I know not but she. light help thee; for the dear Christ loves to  lake his creatures happy; and even so wonder-  l a gift as a soul is in his hand to bestow. Doubtless, if she sees thee worthy of so great a  oon, she will beseech him to grant it to thy     ; rayers." "As for that, I suppose I can pray for myself, ad I had much rather; for why should I ask of er what I desire presently td give back?* And  Christ, not she, give the gift, how much better beg him who was once, they say, a man, and  mpted like one, for what I want, than to trouble )r the boon a woman who never felt as I feel,  id who will have to go, and ask first what she ives afterwards to me? No, no; let every one   ? ray on his own account. And, besides, how Des she know where I am, unless God have ven her infinite sight, like himself? I have !ten seen mortals kneeling close by Sandolphon's adder, but their prayers-had no power to fly  pward to him, because they were not winged  ith the name of Jesus. As for thy other words, ,- ; :   134      BRAZEN GATES.  they were good, and I thank thee for them. Nay, I meant not to be unkind, that thou lookest so sorry. I will indeed begin to carry joyfully the name of my dear lady abroad over Christendom, and who knows but I may some time arrive at the possession of the wonderful thing I desire so much. Fare thee well, good maiden! Thou needst not be afraid of anything in this castle, for, though it be something bewitched, there is naught in it to harm thee." So saying, he snatched his sword from the table, and passed hurriedly from the hall. Johnnie, thus left alone, wandered for a while about the great room, peering into the tattered tapestries, and .burying her golden head in the wonderful missals and pictured manuscripts that lay in piles upon the marble floor, until the sound of light, advancing footsteps, greeted her. Then, struck with sudden fear, she fled quickly through one of the many entrances to the hall, whose doors, half off their hinges, swung to and fro all day long. Alas! the dreaded intruder was no malicious witch or peevish boy; why did not Johnnie wait to behold, in the tottering form which wearily dragged itself onward, her own long-wept, long-wandering sister? But the little maiden, flying she scarce knew why, paused not a second in her course. Before /   BRAZEN GATES.       135 her rose a winding stairway ascending in narrow- ing circles to the topmost turret of the castle. Carved with scaly snakes' heads, it seemed as if the whole succession of marble blocks was but the backbone of some horrible serpent writhing in joy at the possession of a new victim. With- out glancing at the wi stairs, Johnnie began to mount them, not knowi g what she did. Sud- denly she paused, and looked behind.: The whole staircase had moved from its place, and she gazed in terror upon an immense snake that coiled about the walls, lashing the ground with its tail. Overcome by fear, she clung to her slippery sup- port, thnking every moment would be her last, when suddenly the Tthought came to breathe a little prayer for help. Then the monster quickly vanished, and instead thereof appeared the white ascent of stone as formerly. Hastening upward thereon, at last she reached a door, and, pushing it open, entered a tiny chamber, full of books and manuscripts. A skull and cross-bones lay on the table, and a white cloak of 'soft feathers, filched from poor Davie's generous heart by a half-clothed, shiver- ing old woman, and a purse that looked very like the maiden's own, which she had parted with a few hours before. A multitude of amulets and charms, and a sprig of gentian, were scattered t                    186      BRA ZEN GATES. on the floor in one corner. Everything in the roomi seemed fresh, as if not altogether neglected, though the white dust covered the cobwebbed ceiling, even as in the great hall. Johnnie looked at these things very carefully, and especially at a certain veil of silver tissue which lay half covering the skull upon the table. After all, the little traveller was only a child, and the pretty veil of silver seemed more full of beauty than anything she could have imagined; so presently her tiny hands lifted the shining folds, and with nimble fingers twisted them about her head, till she looked like some golden-haired saint who had found the white robes of a holy nun, the outer covering to the brighter vesture of heaven. The thought that this was so, came into the maiden's heart, and she playfully lifted the skull from its place, and would have carried out the jest, when suddenly the room became alive with mutterings and sighs. It seemed as if all the voices she had ever known were echoing there: Davie's soft tones, and the Falcon's gruff utter- ance, and Almanazar's silver accents, mingling with the snaky vocals of the sorceress; and even gentle whispers of her long-lost garden friends. * Very sorrowful were the words- thus borne to her ears: for the gentle flowers were weeping, and /              ,   BRAZEN GATES.       137 Davie in tears over the loss of some dearly-loved friend; the Falcon scolding and commanding, while- Almanazar called loudly, "Delight! dear Lady .Delight! only speak, and once more owh thyself to be my true lady-love! Alas! my heart tells me thou art fit -bride for none but Heaven." So full of agony were the words, that Johnnie, startled and horrified, let fall the skull from her nerveless hands. As it struck the ground, the air filled with groans and shouts of mocking laughter, and shrieks of pain. All the manu- scripts and amulets opened their mouths to shout, and everything echoed and reverberated in such a din, that, frantic with the hubbub, the child fled down the winding stairway, never pausing until she reached the ground, where she sank  upon the pavement in a deathke swoon. When Johnnie awoke, the staircase had van- ished, and she perceived herself to lie in a sort of vestibule, which served to connect the several parts of the castle. All its doors were closed, but the faint plash of water, sounding like music in her ears, led her to push open that one whither the noise seemed to come. Before her lay the fosse that surrounded the castle, filled with clear water, bright with water-lilies, and ever darting through the crystal swam the golden and silvered   138      BRAZEN GATES. fish the maiden loved. Down on the mossy bank grew blue-eyed violets; white sagittaria lined the shore, and hyacinths bloomed out among the green turf. Johnnie no sooner spied the fragrant blossoms, than with childish delight she clam- bered' over the steep, and, gathering their per- fumed heads, began to play with them, sitting on, a mossy ledge that jutted out into the moat. Soon, attracted by the glitter of her silver veil, the fish swam curiously toward the two little blue- veined feet that hung half in the water, twin flowerets to the lilies growing near by. Then the maiden dropped her blossoms, and, forgetful of all else, commenced such a frolic with the pretty creatures as she had been wont to have long, long before, ere she forsook the quiet gar- den and started forth on her weary journey. At length the day faded into even, and, both hungry and weary, Johnnie gathered up her now drooping treasures, and began to wander along the edge of the moat, fearing to enter again the desolate, haunted castle. At the angle of the wall was a tiny wicket-gate, and through it she espied the castle-garden. Ilere,'at least, was no cause for terror; and she passed in by way of the door, that yielded easily to her hand, as if glad of her coming This was indeed the once- neglected flower-plot; but how much changed! '* *  '-      BRAZEN GATES.       139 No longer wild and uncared-for, the walls and beds were laid out in symmetrical order, and everywhere beauty had sprung out of chaos. Yonder, near the centre, bloomed a wonderfully fair Passion-vine, hanging upon a weather-beaten yew, and her many-hued blossoms, purple, scar- let, and white; trailed far out over the ground. This it was that lent the new-found charm to the spot; for, after all, the maiden could find little else changed, save that a stately chrysanthemum reafed her head hard by. Near to the gate rose one of the massive towers of the building, and through' its open entrance she beheld a white staircase circling upward, similar indeed, to the other close by the castle- hall, but this was fashioned full fair, with water- lilies carven upon its every slab. Far upward, at the very top, Johnnie found a little, simple room, and, for the sense of home- like comfort that filled the place, here she re- solved to take up her abode. All the furnishing of the chamber seemed familiar and cosy. There, in one corner, stood the old guitar with its silver strings; and over in the other was the tiny white bed, fit only for a maiden to rest upon. The tired wanderer threw off her till now forgotten veil, and let her armful of withered blossoms drop upon the table, when lo! no longer did   "O      BRAZEN GATES. odorous hyacinths and purple violets and arrow- worts lie thereon, but a substantial meal, whose savor delighted the famished child; and hence- forth appeared day by day the needful food upon the curiously-carved board. In this airy nest Johnnie dwelt. Though all alone in the forsaken castle, yet the maid seemed not to be far from her well-loved friends. In- deed, never before had they been so near to her in her thoughts. Wrapped in her shining veil, not a lock or 'bolt but flew back at her approach; and she explored at will the wonderful place, and made playthings of its strange treasures. With a light heart she sang to her guitar,- and danced about the castle, and her yellow head peered from the grim win: dows like the rift of blue sky that peeps through a thunder-cloud, and her presence brought a peace to the haunted chambers everywhere her sweet prayers and bright laughter came. The fishes in the moat were her dearest com- panions, and when the, leaves began to fall, she filled a great globe, which she had found, with water from the stream, and, capturing a few of her finny friends, with infinite toil she brought them up to her little chamber. In the jar grew also water-lilies, wonderfully small and beauti- ful; and all the winter long the plants blos-   BRAZEN GATES.-       141 somed, and the beautiful fishes sported in their crystal home. Once Johnnie threw her veil over some gor- geous birds which were wont to come and feed on the store of crumbs she daily scattered; but though they learned to sing, and flutter their pretty wings at her approach, they were far less dear to her than the golden and silvered darlings in the great glass globe. Thus quickly and quietly slipped away the snow-wrapped winter, and in due time Spring brought back the roses and birds to the garden, and once again the white lilies bloomed on the surface of the moat; and when the rain-drops filled their hollow cups, the tears began to flow from Johnnie's eyes.   CHAPTER. XII. And didst thou visit him no more? Thou didst-thou didst, my daughter dear I The waters laid thee at his door, Ere yet the early dawn was clear." JEAN INGELOW. HEN Davie awoke, the sun, reflected from her resting-place, was shedding its crim- son glow upon her pale features, and even tinging the silver feathers of the dove with its ruddy lustre. Far over the sea was to be seen neither sail nor glimpses of land, nor aught that betokened life, save here and there, when the silver-glancing waves opened, as some playful fish sprang for a moment from  the liquid crystal only to return again to the laughing waters that with glistening faces sprang up around him in their lightsome play. The dove sat cooing softly to herself on the long stem that served for rudder to their wonder- ful little ship; and when Davie looked up for a   BRAZEN GATES.       143 moment from her scarlet pillow, she saw that they were sailing in one of the great leaflets of the tree which had served as- a ladder into the Snow-kingdom. The edges of the immense leaf, a little contracted by drying, turned up to make the sfdes- of the boat, which drifted on, partly drawn along by the current, partly driven by the vind, leaving far behind its foamy track, like a broad ribbon on the smooth breast of ocean. By and by the sun crept up in the blue heav- ens, and then wearily turned him toward his cloudy bed; and when he reached out his hand to draw the golden curtains of his couch, Davie descried far before her a faint blue line, which , she knew must be land. All night long the angels with their starry eyes gazed down upon the earth; and then, when the day came back, the lonely maiden beheld, far away, not one, but -two suns, slowly rising from the eastern flood. Soon she perceived. that only one great orb began to mount the heavens, and what had at first seemed a sun, was in fact a castle, perched high up behind a wall of gray cliffs, that so simu- lated the color of the waters as to appear a part of them. As the bark neared the shore, Davie. saw that the shining lustre of the pile was caused by the   "4      BRAZEN GATES. great brazen wall that surrounded it, and the framework of the doors and windows was over- laid with shining brass. .At length the boat touched the beach, and, faint with her long fast, the maiden climbed the steep that lay between the strand and the castle, She entered the brazen gates, and wandered at last into the lofty hall. Decayreigned every- where within the ivied pile; and bats, roused by her footsteps and frightened from their repose, flew hither and thither about her head. All the room was covered with that thick white dust wherein Time enwraps his spoils as in a gar- ment, ere he claims them as his own forever. The sun was for a moment overclouded, and lent a darker gloom, by his absence, to the uncanny spot.' Now something stirs in the corridors-no bird, but a hideously wrinkled old woman, totter- ing on by the help of her cane; and at her side, yet offering her no aid, walks a tall, stalwart youth, in earnest converse with the ugly being. At the sound of her voice the dove shrinks trembling to the maiden's breast, and, as the fea- tures of the approaching boy grow more distinct inthe gloom, Davie presses both hands upon her heart, lest its loud beatings should make her lose a whisper of the well-known tones. "Htell thee thou shalt not touch one hair upon   BRAZEN GATES.      145 the head of yonder saucy child," cried the lad. "If she will have none of me, I cannot alter her intention; but she shall by no means suffer at thy hand." "Do as I say, and the soul thou dost so ear- nestly crave shall be thine. Surely the petulant childling is unworthy of thy care; and if this chance be let slip, Heaven only knows when thou'lt get another; though why thou shouldst ask the burden of a soul, only to be miserable forever, I cannot comprehend." "Then cease to speak of things thou dost not understand," cried he. "If I know, that's enough. As for the little maiden yonder, I have given my promise that she shall not be hurt, and my father's sons at least fulfil their word." "i It is surely no harm to find her a handsome husband. Why, many a maid of gentle blood would go wild' with joy at the thought." "Is that so?" quoth the other, with brighten-  ing face; and then, in sullen mood, "If thou sayest true, why do they not? None of them -  have ever suffered for love of me. Thou art the only one that ever desired my company; and assuredly there is no love lost between us." "Thou didst consent readily enough, to my plan at the first," quoth the woman, coming back to the subject; "and now 'thou hast no sooner 7   -146     BRA Z7FO GATES. set eyes on the maiden, when with much toil I have conveyed her hither, than, wind-mill as thou art, at the mercy of every lightest breeze, thou- dost utterly refuse to have aught to do with a plan contrived solely for thy benefit." "I am no wind-mill," returned the youth, test- ily. "And the plan was solely for my benefit, indeed, when thou didst propose to array thy with- ered ugliness in her passing beautiful charms! But if thou wilt know why I must spare the youngling, there are memories connected with the tones of her voice-memnories that rise in my soul, compelling me to desist from any at- tempt upon her happiness." Davie shrank closer into her shadowed corner at these words, and listened still more eagerly than before. - Akh!!" mumbled the old woman, " thou think- est of the moon-struck girl ill luck sent thee in yonder clouds. I nmet the poor fool by accident not long since, and she actually preferred to die, rather than give up her search for the silly boy she has set her heart upon." "' Hast thou seen her?" cried the youth. "Is it indeed true that she still survives? Then I 'will surely live to undo the wrongs I have heaped upon her. I -mourned lest my tender blossom had .perished through my selfishness. When I W     l v   B RAZ ar GATES.   . i 14T snatched the frail leaf-stem whereon she reposed, and saw her sinking swiftly downward with her arms stretched out toward me, and her great eyes so reproachfully fixedion my face, I could gladly have died; and, ever since, a most dreary weight of anguish hath sat at my heart. She said there were many like her," added the boy, regretfully; " but I have sought in vain for one. Yonder haughty maiden comes nearer to her than any other, and she, I ween, cannot be thought of at the same moment." "I almost wish I had left thee alone to enjoy thy travels toward starvation," quoth the old hag. "Much reward I get for my- good deeds! - Now- thou wilt give up the sure chance of pleasure for the mere possibility of seeing again a maiden whom thy untutored fancy indeed pronounced admirable, but whom thy maturer judgmenit will  doubtless reject as all unworthy of thy love. She looked most withered and sickly when I saw her, and I spied Death stretching his arms out toward her. It is likely that,'ere this, the earth hath- claimed her own," she added, after a pause, during which the youth appeared to weigh her 4words. "Didst thou say that she was faded and ugly?" asked the youth at length. "Yea," returned the other; " she was hollow-   "8      BRAZEN GATES. cheeked and yellow-skinned, and- her gray eyes looked from great caverns in her head; and she stooped even as one who bears on his shoulders the load of heavy years." "Then she must be like thee,". cried the young knight, with a face of disgust. "I loved her for her beauty. . She will not be the same, now that is gone. Thou art the only old woman I ever saw, and thou sayest she is old. Speak! are all aged dames alike?   . "They all have the same looks in general," re- turned the other. Marry! thou shouldst think of that. How wilt thou like to bear thy dear one to the joyous tilt, and the feast where the noble knights delight to bring their fair damsels'? She will do thee much honor, I trow! Trouble hath doubtless soured her heart also, for she was anything but kind-mannered to me when we parted, although for thy sake I offered her the best assistance in my power." " I couldn't wed a hag like thee!" said the handsome knight.  "I should die of share. No, no; thou art right. It were ill that I should waste my precious time upon her." Davie, listening meanwhile thought with bitter heart "I If he hold me so lightly, he loves me not." But the worst was yet to comie. "After all," he went on, " she ever had a tear   BRA ZEN GATES.      149 trembling on her eyelash. She was wont to stifle the weakness in my presence; but by -night I often heard her sob when she fancied me asleep. Who likes to live alway near to a rain-storm?" With this, the pair passed, out at the open doorway, down into the many-hued garden; and Davie, whose outstretched arms had fallen wearily, and whose eyes overflowead with the for- bidden tears, stealthily followed them, holding her breath lest she shouild disturb by her pres- ence the one she loved best on earth. Soon she stood behind them as they paused within the box-bordered walks, and once more she heard the snaky temptress ply her art. "Say, wilt thou wed that girl yonder?" quoth the old woman. "What if she at first rebel! she will- be all the more submissive at the last. Forget that David ever crossed thy path, or re- member her as a weak, forlorn unfortunate, who loved, indeed, though too presumptuously for suc- cess."-  But she had touched the wrong chord. "Loved, indeed! repeated he. "Yea, she did love me truly, and shall I thus cast aside as ot no value the only .tender heart I have ever known? Rather let me have my poor Passion- Flower, withered and faded though she be! All her beauty, when it was hers to give, she trusted   150      BRAZEN GATES. to my love*; and, now it is gone, I will not cast her off. She gave her life for mine, and I will assuredly take what care I may of hers." The listening one could not forbear a start of pleasure, and the old woman said, hastily, "What moves . " "Naught," answered the youth, " save a with- ered leaf rustlifig in the wind." "Now, what if thy love be dead a " asked the dame. "I doubt not that she is. Wilt thou then wed the yellow-haired fairy " A moment the lad waited, and then said, steadily: * "I know well that I am in thy power; but thou mayest do thy worst. I will gain 'the soul I- covet, and then I shall rejoin the true and faithful maiden who was not suffered to unite her life with mine on earth. IIow could I face her gentle shade, when the darkness" of night made her visible to my eyes, were my hands blackened with the sorrows of an innocent child? It is enough that two have already fallen by my guilt. No, no; ye foul and horrid shapes, ye shall shout in imy ears your curses for no other murder! Ye elves and devils, that are never absent from my side, I join not your hellish band with this weight on my being!"   BRAZEN GATES.      151 "What nonsense dost thou speak!" said the other, angrily. "I tell thee," quoth the youth, his eyes alight with passion, "I cannot sleep, but that pale spec- tres and fiery demons dance before mine eyes, crying, ' Come with us! What claim hast thou among men, thou soulless one ' If I step be- yond the limits of thy bewitched castle, the mists and smoke-wreaths take shape and nod before me, crying, 'Where is thy soul . .Even Davie herself once said, amidst her tears, 'I cannot blame thee for thy folly. Alas! Hwell know thou hast no soul.' Not long since, too, I plucked a handful of lilies from the garden here, and, overpowered by their sweetness, I sank asleep upon the grass. In my dreams a beauteous maiden appeared to me, saying, ' Only get thee a soul, poor sleeper, and all shall be well.' There- fore I will have, this wonderful thing. And see thou tempt me not too far; thy snaky head is not proof against my anger, if thou drive me to desperation by thy accursed arts." "Thou hast said well," cried the dame. C We will prove thy courage presently. Brave words melt like snow beneath the fiery breath of ad- versity." She hobbled away as she spoke, per- haps waiting to see if the threat would not shake his new-born resolution.   152      BRAZE  a TEGA TS. As she turned and left the spot, Davie, forget- ting all save that she now beheld, and knew, the long-sought youth, her lover still, tottered forward with a low and eager cry, and nestled Ou -his bosom. A moment she rested there-a moment of perfect bliss-and then he held her out at arm's length, and studied her face. "She lied!" the youth exclaimed. "Thou art not ugly. To be 'sure, thy face is thin, but that is the fruit ,of thy weariness. I will not be ashamed of thee anywhere." Recalled by the noise, the hideous witch re- turned to the place. "So the pretty dear has found its mate at last?" croaked she. "I dare not hurt thee. Would to Heaven I could! - But there is one I can make suffer for this day's Nwork. Silver feathers are small help against sinewy hands." She seized the dove as it rested upon the maiden's shoulder, and threw it a man- gled carcass at its mistress' feet. "As for thee, thou love-struck fool, try how close a coat will cover thy selfish existence.- Be thankful that thou art not utterly destroyed from off the earth." She struck the astonished youth with her crutch as she spoke, and instantly the stalwart figure of the lad dwindled and shraILk, and in the place where. he had stood, a worm blindly sought his way with upreared head.   BRAZEN GAATES.       153 Davie knelt sobbing over the body, of her little  friend, unconscious 'of her greater loss, and in her agony of soul prayed that she might follow the divorced spirit of -the gentle comforter. At length, exhausted by misery, her tears ceased; a heavy languor stole over her bowed frame; a sweet voice seemed to sound in her ears, saying, "Be comforted; all will yet go well." Then a t remorous thrill passed through her weary limbs, and the sunshine no longer fell upon the bent shape of a tearful maiden. Where she had been, a Passion-Vine trailed its tangled glory over an ancient yew-tree, and shrouded with its wreath of blue and scarlet blos- soms the body of the poor little dove. /   C  APTER     fI Jrl. "If thou hast not. sat, as I do now, Wearying thy hearer with thy true love's praise, Thou hast not loved." SHAKE^SPFARE. (. I Go HE trees are turning, With blushes burning, (Their days near ended,) To brighter hues. The maples glowing, Their red leaves showing, Outshine purple ashes And evergreen yews. "Spirmas yellow Vie with each fellow; And silver poplars, In jealous rage, Take the same color; Nor one whit duller, In autumn's beauty, Stand oaks grand with age. - The cold wind sighing, Whispers of dying; To verdant branches, / And leaflets green.   BRAZEN GATES.           1 Bit young buds nestle In soft bark, and wrestle With stinging breezes, Till snow-drops are seen. :' The leaves that have served, With care well observed, Till, late in the autumn, Their labor is through, Drop down securely, Silently, surely, Covering with splendor The ground where they gmew. - Time's busy fingers Are frequent bringers        . Of mellow beauty To death-doomed leaves. So turn ripe cherries, Or red strawherries, Or golden gleameth The wheat in the sheaves. "Thus God takes the fairest, Claims all the rarest, But. only calls them When life's work is o'er. If we would only, Wandering blindly, Think of his fashions With tree and with flower. "But we walk onward, All looking downward; We take up our sorrows From where joys should be: Of          J   156      BRAZEN GATES. Not more in thy glory Of fall, than the story Of .our Lord's dealings With thee and with me." The song, mingled with the mellow strains of the old lute played by the singer, floated down to the flower-maiden, who all day long hung lov- ingly upon the grim old yew-tree. The gentle tones stirred her soul strangely with a multitude of half-caught, half-unintelligible memories, as she watched -the leaves drift into the hollows among her roots, where mouldered the body of her poor little friend. Many-hued was the gorgeous shroud, and many a tree gave up his cherished leaflets to build the splendid tomb. At last the divers-colored garment changed into a dusky brown. Day after day the rain poured  down in torrents, and the many-fingered wind plucked their dresses from the shivering plants, until their naked stems stood shivering in every passing breeze             - As the. cold blast whistled through the leafless branches, more than one homeless insect sought refuge in the blooming Passion-Vine, and nestled warm and safe among her scarlet blossoms. Ma g- nificent .butterflies rested upon her leaves, and   BRAZEN GATES.      157 little birds found shelter there from the drench- ing rain. Thither came, one day,. a poor blind Worm, stretching out his sightless head 'to discover the uncertain way. When he reached the tendrils that the maiden trailed upon the ground, he caught hold of them very joyfully, and, climb- ing upward, in due time framed himself a silken home among the leaves. Right glad was Davie to find her dear youth even under this sad disguise. Much had she pondered his sudden vanishing, and, though she kept her trouble close in her own heart, full often had her blossoms hung drooping on their stems for very sorrow at his loss. I know not how she recognized him thus changed; but not a doubt had she of his identity. The Worm, too, seemed to know that he had found the loving heart whose generous fulness could cover and fill up his nar- row, troubled being; and, while he slept peace- fully in his airy nest, the Passion-Vine burst into radiant bloom in the greatness of her joy. Now, as he built the swinging hammock which was to shield him through the long winter, the maiden called to mind, among her cheerful thoughts, how she had seen, lying with the pic- tured manuscripts of the castle-hall, an, antique missal, old even in that long-ago time. Resplen-   -    .   15 8        EBRAZEN GA TES. dent upon its pages were the gracious emblems best fitted to elevate the heart through the me- dium of the quicker-witted eye., There had she noted the symbol of the Worm in his cold tomb, and there the gorgeous insect emerging' gayly from its prison-house. The wind, that in former times had roughly buffeted poor Fleur de Passion as she wandered sadly on her journey, now sang plaintively, amid the branches of the Passion-Vine, words which failed not to bring comfort, though the meaning, was as yet hid from  her mind: "Where the earth spreads forth her mantle, -Many a loved one softly sleeps; 'Mid the grasses bending lowly, Many pa heart its vigil keeps; But we sorrow not all hopeless, For we know that, though this frame Must put off its rotting vesturei Life eternal is its claim. "Thus the worm, his slow length marking As he labors o'er the ground, Creeps on toward his darkened dwelling. House, where life in death is bound; Passing days their unseen changes Work upon his shrouded form, Till he springs forth from his prison, *On his gorgeous pinions borne." Davie always felt more hopeful when the winds   BRAZEN GATER        159 whispered this little rhyme, though she could scarce tell why. Sometimes she, believed it to refer to the dove buried at her feet, and her soul grew faint with the tide of gentle memories that flowed back into their olden channels. At an- other moment the mystic lines seemed to point toward the cradled youth; and anon the thought would thrill over her, that she was the Worm creeping onward toward the blessed immortality God grants His stricken ones. The belief that this was the true meaning of the 'words, grew upon her the more, because the days rolled on and brought no outward change. Often she would be seized with fear lest the life -she cherished above her own had ceased to be. But as the winds tossed hither and thither her tendrils, from which the blossom-gemmed garment had long since fallen, she would sometimes feel the beating of his heart against her own, and, reas- sured thereby, could xest content. At last the warmer sunbeams began to beckon forth the leaves, even as the gleaming notes of invitation are the first to call the guests to the joyous feast. -Then, as long days returned to the land, the maiden was no more lonely in her vigils, for little flowers raised their heads from the earth, and birds and insects brought back on )           f          ,-.   160      BRAZEN GA TES. their fluttering wings both life and melody to the grim old castle-garden. First of all, the hectic cheek of the Wind- Flower lifted itself to the gaze of the Passion- Vine; and then followed many an old-time com- panion of the dim, singing forest. But though the story of Fleur de Passion was in every mouth, still no flowers guessed that she was the gentle child who used to gather their blossoms and listen to their whispered tales of joy and sorrow. The little maid dwelling in the turret-chamber often'tripped lightly through the paths, and many tim6s Davie wished to behold the face always muffled in the silver veil. As weeks sped on, the plants held pleasant converse with one an- other, and merry tales and tender messages were launched to and fro upon the obedient breezes. Near the centre of the garden stood the great yew-tree whereon Davie hung her once more blooming branches, and at his feet arose, day after day, something that resembled a tiny brown - umbrella, straight and firm upon its slender stalk. Once, resting peacefully beneath its shade, Davie descried the maid who upheld it in the moist air. Her beautiful almond-shaped eyes, the curiously- fashioned pink and yellow garments, and the tiny curled-up slippers, told at once her race. She smiled up at the noble v:ne beside her, and ex: ,      BRAZEN AT   S. V     161 claimed: " Come here, thou I azy zephyr- uick! Sh ca ught hiby his trembling wings as she spoke, but he was too nimble for her, and danced oee. but he wa     away right merrily . "'If thou will no bear my song, I will no sing it, quoth she, indignantly. Come here dis vereeminute." But the Zephyr was throwing ' Hear me,"7 said the little Gentian, whose be eyes, always full of tears, turned right lovingly dignity of her heartfelt g rief even the ippal rgaca foror e to comment, o oer that formal  consolation which only-adds a sullen resentment to the purer pgs of incurable sorrow.  But the Passion-ine ligh mtly shook her dew- laden blossoms over the upraised face ot her little friend, so that her sorowful featres,be- sprinled with the bright drops, sparkled in the sunligh%,-and' -eemed already painted with the rainbow-hues of hope. The tender floweret un- derstood the silent caress, though she shook her head, and made quiet answer: "If he only loved me still But I fear-oh, I fear that he hatr forgotten even that I ever existed And yet"   162       BRA ZEJN GATES. she went on, as if reflecting, " it is muclh better as it is. If he remembered me, perhaps the thought of my untimely death would sadden his already too desolate life; and God forbid that I should ever make him  sorrowful! No; it is much bet- ter as it is."  And then the maiden smiled so ten- derly and sweetly, that one could not keep from weeping, to behold her.   But she said, wonder- ingly: "Why should ye thus shed tearsi for me, dear friends  Is it not indeed far better as it is?" "Will ye listen to as sad a tale, my sisters?" said a mellow voice close by, after a long silence among the flowers. It was a tall Chrysanthemum who spoke, and, when they turned to look upon her, she bowed her queenly head in majestic sorrow.   The idle wind came willingly to bear her song, and as her full, round notes struck the ears of her listeners, every heart answered in. sympathy.    Thus she sang: "Why sit ye there alone, my maid? Thy face andlform are rare to see! Lift up thy nut-brown, curled head, And ride adown the vale with me- Adown the vale to Brierie.' "' My sisters to the tilt are gone; They ride upon their palfreys three: No knight to me my charms have won-     BRA ZEN   GATES.       - 163 No courteous knight to ride with me Down to the tilt at Brierie.'  "'Why is'he tilt so loud proclaimed?         . t Say, why the course so brave and free?' 'A ring and kerchief prizes named, And knights do tilt for courtesie, And ladiesO smiles reward will be.' "Dry up thy tears, thou maid forlorn! 'With me come view the tourney: The kerchief on thy neck be/worn; The ring shall be for thee and me-- Come, view the tilt at Brierie.' We twain did ride adown the vale; My soul did hang upon his eye; Our journey were a lightsome tale; But my heart came back full heavily     .  From the-fatal tilt at Brierie. - ' The knights start at the onward call; / In ladies' smile they brave must be.         , He was The boldest of them all; My searlet scarf waved .ruddily,         -  High in the tilt at Brierie.'  "At last the queen doth stop the fray;  The combat ends right fairlie.; , My knight the guerdon bears away-- He brings the kerchief o'er to me. Ah, fair's the tilt at Brierie I "Alas I alas! -the ring is mine;       ,  Its price was, paid too dearlie:          i No ring of love our lives entwine;    164      BRA ZEN GAT'S. I wait my love full wearie-- Death won the tilt at Brierie."' She ceased, and the last rich notes floated- over the air as the veiled maiden tripped gayly through the garden.- "Let -me not spoil thy pleasure, my sisters," quoth she, right prettily, as she noted how a sudden silence fell on all, at her approach. "My own story, I ween, is far sadder than any of thy simple histories." As she spoke, the Worm, listening to her voice, moved uneasily in his nest, and Davie, feeling this, recalled his words on the fatal morning of their meeting, and knew that her rival, the cause of his misfortune and her misery, stood before her. "Iow graceful! and how sweet in voice!" thought the poor maid. "If her face but match her figure, no shame to him that he finds me plain and ugly." "Thy sorrows are light wivhen they are placed beside ours," quoth she, in chilling- accents. With this she turned her face away, thinking jealously how the Worm  recognized the stranger's presence, while through weary days she had watched despairingly for some  sign- to tell her that life still clung to the shrouded form, and yet no sign was given. "Say not so," returned the maiden, eagerly; "say not so; -for my misfortunes, alas! have had their root in my own folly. Thou, at leas-t" she                          ,   BRAZEN GATES.       165 added, more timidly, seeing the coldness of the flower, "thou hast never wilfllly forsaken thy love"                 ! Davie's heart steeled as she listened to this con- fession of injury done to her dear Snowflake, alnd she answered, quickly: "  Hfe will doubtless take the first opportunity to return to thee, even if he leave older and more faithful friends the while.     : "I cannot understand thee," quoth the maiden, in wonder. "I am   right sure that my dear Prince hath no older love' than I; aid, though I have behaved so ill toward him, I can well be- lieve that he will hasten to rejoin me, for I know well that he holds me dear. But, alas! I trem- ble lest some evil have befallen, him; since for many a month I have watched for his coming without avail, and I can only picture to myself  the perils of his journey, seeing I know not where .- he may be."            .           :; "Go! leave me!l" cried Davie, losing all pa- tience, and greatly irritated at the confidence of the stranger, which spoke the death-blow to her own hopes. "If he love thee- so well, thou canst easily dispense with the affection of such as I; though I am glad to say that it will be some time yet ere he see thee, since thou art so, very sure of his visiting thee, which I am doubtful if he do at  all. .I know not why a double-faced mortal       t    166      BRAZEN GATES. should be suffered to take part in the few enjoy- ments left us unhappy flowers."    9 "It may be that he will not come," answered Johnnie, faintly. "I know I do not deserve that he should. My face is not double," she added, in meek fashion. "See for thyself if there be aught of evil in it. I am but a poor, sorrowful child, who repenteth bitterly of the follies for which she suffers." With that she plucked the white cloud from her head, and turned her trou- bled countenance, beautiful in its patient pain, toward the plants. But Davie was too angry to look upon her. "  know well that I owe much of my grief to thee. Why shouldst thou come to glory over it? This is surely all I need to see." "Peace, magpie!" cried the Yew, indignantly. "I'd as soon live in a bed of tansy, and take my meals in a chamomile-patch, as stand here and listen to ye! Be silent! One might as well go to roost with poll-parrots, and expect quiet!" Then the maiden, who scarcely heard his words, so hurt was she at the unkindness of the flower, drew her veil over her face and silently left the garden; but with her departure the light seemed to leave the spot, and the flowers could no more talk peacefully among themselves. A dead /  , ,   BRAZEN GATES.      167 silence reigned over all, and already would Da- vie have given much to take back her bitter words. "Tell me," quoth she at last to the Chrysan- themum, "is not thy knight that loud clarion of war, Sir Raoul de Tecoma, whose clear strains have been heard over all the land?" "Yea, truly," answered the other, joyfully. "Hast thou seen him ever? Canst thou tell aught of his whereabouts?-if he still lives? Though, I fear, there is faint hope of that." "I have no news of the youth, of late," re- turned Davie; " but on the morning of the tilt I spied both thee and him; and a right brave youth he seemed to be."  "Alas! that day I lost my love forever," said the Chrysanthemum, sorowfully. "He bore the. prizes to my feet, and sank back fainting from his wounds, and I remember nothing more. When I awoke, I was here in this horrible cas- tle; and after yonder little maiden had gained me, as I hoped, my liberty, I only reached this, garden, to be met by a hideous witch, who breathed upon me, and then I found my feet rooted to the earth, and I myself a flower." The Worm had more than once turned uneasily in his airy nest, and the Passion-Vine, setting this down to anger at her treatment of the little white- veiled maiden, became still more grave, and   168       BIAZEN   GATES. lamented bitterly her folly; and the Chrysanthe- mum lost herself amid her painful musings. While these things had    been going on, the Zephyr had dried his wings, which the dewy tears shed by the tender-hearted flowers at their sister's sorrowful tale had made quite wet, and now, his light pinions once more plumed for flight, he skipped joyfully about, not a whit heeding the discomfort of his mistresses,  But here Argarica embraced the opportunity, and, suddenly catch- ing him as he strayed iunwittingly near, she held him  fast prisoner, and mischievously shook him while she laided his trembling form with her long unisung story : "Alas! long since, I was a maiden, Blooming at home full rarely; And China was my native haven. Across the sea the ships came laden, In search of gains got fairly. One sailor-he was brave to see- Espied me there, a dweller; Quoth he, ' Come off, and live with me; A gentle husband I will be:-  Come, fold up thy umbrella.' "I followed him. The days flew by; His vice -my love did quell. Ah Me! I wished that I could die. And when he stormed, to make me cry, I hugged my old umbrella.   ,                             . '* ,   BRAZEN GATES.        169 "4 Matters grew worse. The squalls at sea Could terrify the sailor; But close on board worse gales had we; I took my bed; to comfort me, I brought my dear umbrella." Here the singer paused, and waited for some expression of sympathy from her hearers; but none came. Either they were too much absorbed in their own griefs, or the pert ways of the black- eyed stranger annoyed them. Just tien, too, the messenger-breeze, perceiving her hesitation, seized the chance and fled away, leaving the story half- told.             - "I mourn," said Davie, rousing herself from her troubled thoughts, "that I should have hurt the little stranger. I have, alas! too many heart- pangs to be willing to add one needless trouble to the lot of any of God's children.  Would that she might return, and I would unsay the angry words which drove her hence.)" "That is quite right, my daughter," quoth the Yew. "Thou hast not forgotten that repentance ought always to follow as close to a fault, as the hunter to the honey-guide when he looks for bees. Then will the fragrant treasure of forgiveness be early discovered." "'Ah, thou shouldst have looked upon her'!" 8   - 170     BRAZEN GATES. whispered the Gentian. "So lovely a face must needs belong to a guileless heart."  Davie's anger rose again at this. ' What! thought she, " must even this simple flower turn from me to the deceitful stranger "  But she answered right sad: "I would not have spoken so harshy, if the memory of my wrongs had not been fresh upon me." Before any one could reply, Argarica, catching the Zephyr as he wandered near, began where she had been forced to leave off, and, being more wary this time, finished, with many long-drawn sighs and tears, her story: "My husband came and found me there; My cheeks with fear grew paler;- -He caught me by my flowing hair, The blows fell fast- 'twas hard to bear- And with my own umbrella. "I ran away at last, and here In time became a dweller; And now, whene'er the damp is drear, I call my old companion dear, And hoist up my umbrella." The singer finished with a- cough, and this time the little Zephyr skipped away undetained; while Davie said, -perceiving her embarrassment, "I ' think, in truth, our sister's tale is the very saddest of all} since we can each have the comfort of   BRAZEN GATES.       171 mourning over our lost ones, while she alone fails to think with pleasure upon her lover." The Mushroom looked gratefully atrthe slender vine, and for the first time on record was. alto- gether silent.' "Wouldst thou take him back, if he should ask it? ." said the stern old Tew, abruptly. So startled was the dame by the unexpected question, that she blushed, and replied, "Right willingly-either him or another. I am tired of liying single." "He's dead; so thou mayest think of some Xone else,' quoth he, grimly. "His legs are as stiff as hickory sticks of last year's cutting.'? Then he ceased, and no entreaties could induce him to speak again, save that lie exclaimed to Argarica, who had burst into tears, and sobbed loudly, "Peace, woman!   I should think thy roots reached through into the ocean on the other side, if I hadn't seen thee steal the dew-drops off of all the, poor little plants near thee. Peace, I say!" After this, excepting that the veiled maiden walked no more in the quaint old garden, matters went on much as formerly. The flowers sung and related their troubles and joys to one another, and Davie found the-days go in very quiet fashion. At last there was a stirring of the earth at her   172      BRAZEN GATES. feet. First a small green spiral pushed its spear- like point above the green leaves that filled the hollow. Then arose another and another, and at last the flower-budded stalk lifted its head before the maiden. At the first, her gentle soul trembled with anger-that any one should thus usurp the place of her beloved friend; but, mindful of the mean- ness of her late jealousy, she strove to forget the unkind thoughts, and at last, as the white lily- buds grew and began to unfold into bloom, her heart softened, and she even felt affection for the little companion who had crept so confidingly into her shadow. One morning, when the flow- ers awoke and shook the bright dew-drops from their garments, Davie glanced down toward the lily, and lo! her blossoms were opened, and within the heart of every modest flower nestled a brooding dove.   CT-TAPLTE   XIV. "Home-sickness is a wasting pang; This feel I hourly more and more: There's healing only in thy wings, Thou breeze that plays on Albion's shore." COLERIDGE. GENTLE reader, it is now time to return to   the flame-bright Lily, Almanazar; and, though it took the ill-minded sor- ceress scarce a dozen minutes to traverse the broad seas between Egypt and thel Brazen Gates, let us surpass even her magic powers, and in an instant retrace our steps through the lapse of months, and stand with our hero as he halted by the Nilus. Here, in the glittering moonlight, the tents were pitched, and the weary servants com- posed their limbs to slumber.    -  Within his gold-embroidered tent the young knight fell asleep, and presently seemed to be in Brittany, at the entrance of the Brazen Gates. A tall, slender maiden toiled painfully up the steep until she reached the castle, and then   17'4     BRAZE N GATES. turned, and in her pallid features he recognized the-.-maiden of the ice-field. She beckoned with her hand for a moment, and vanished.  Soon after there came to the doorway the youth whom he had seen in the castle aforetime; and he also called to him, saying, "Forgive, Sir Knight! Make haste! we are all of us in danger." Next the sorceress appeared, and pushed the youth rudely aside, and exclaimed, in joyful tones, "All comes right! Six aching hearts may well repay me for my years of anguish. A few hours' work' here, and then will I give Son Almanazar a visit. He should be right glad to behold his mother, methinks; it is long since my face hath lighted his eyes."  Disquieted by the weary vision, the sleeper awoke, and paced long and uneasily through the narrow tent. At length he once more threw himself - on the ground, and now his dream     i changed. ,In a lonely monastery he watched the reverend abbess as she knelt at prayer. Present- ly she stood up, and he, still gazing upon her, burned with great desire to put back the sweep- ing veil which hid her face. He came stealthily upon her, and cgnght aside the heavy folds. Sho moved not, spoke no word; but the marble still- ness added a sharper pang as the lover saw, in the face bereft of its cloud of golden tresses, the   BRA ZE   GATES.      175  features of his loved Delight. lHe called hoarse- . ly, Johnnie!-Delight!-My own! Speak to me!"His mother's mocking laugh answered          - fromn behind the crucifix, and he came again to himself, with the discordant notes still ringing in his ears. Matters had not gone better with the domestics than with their lord. I have told thee that .they sought repose. Scarcely, however, did their eye- lids droop upon their cheeks, than frightful shrieks caused them to start up in terror, and rush to the ' open air to discern their origin. Naught was vis- ible save the old Falcon flying over the camp, and alighting quietly on their leader's tent; but no sooner did they sleep again, than once more the agonized. screams and horrid yells drove them forth to witness the :ne peaceful scene. At length, t ed beyond measure, they assenmbled about their master, and with one voice demanded the death of the Falcon.   "He," they said, "brought the noise, and he must no longer be suffered to disturb their slumbers." To this the bird deigned no reply; he only transferred his place from the tent-pole to the shoulder of the young knight; and that hero, feeling the trust reposed in him, refused the clamorous entreaty without a moment's thought. The men fell back   astonished, and clustered   176   I  - BRAZEN GATES. about a tall fellow who seemed to be their lead- er ; while the Falcon laid his little head caress- ingly against the soft cheek of the stripling. i "Dost thou dare to protect me, dear youth?" quoth he. "Reflect, thou art over-young to give up thy fair and beautiful life. Johnnie's lover should not fall into snares, from which the noble bird should escape unharmed." Nay, nay," cried Almanazar, quickly; "what I have promised I will perform. Small welcome ^  would the Lady Delight give me, should I return with a life saved at the expense of her ancient protector's. No; I will defend thee with alii my strength ;-and, should I fall, we will perish to- gether.5 "Thanks, good youth!" returned the bird, gravely; "thy knightly aring sh:laot be for- gotten. I will see to it that thou :it fitting reward. Meantime, Heaven will protect thee." Hie nodded his head as he spoke, more as one accustomed to command than like a little Falcon. The Arabs now advanced, and their leader stepped forward and announced the continued intention of his fellows to destroy the bird. "We must have satisfaction for -our fears and terrors this night," he cried;- " and if thou wilt deny us this, look well to thyself, for thy life is not altogether of the safest."3        /    BRAZEN GATdkS.      1" At this, Almanazar drew himself up proudly. "Will ye, then, insist on the cruel death of a defenceless being?" he cried. ' And yet not defenceless either, since the first to lay finger on the bird shall pay the penalty with his life. Come on, if ye dare!" For a moment the coward ranks fell back, but suddenly the tall Arab rushed forward, waving his flashing scimetar, and his comrades followed. Now appeared a host of falcons in the air, screaming, and striking, with their broad wings the faces of the duskly horde, who had already begun to recoil beneath the doughty blows of the young. hero. Animated with fury, they rushed again to the attack, while the winged assailants above their heads wheeled and hacked at one another with their sharp bills, and anon falling upon the- human combatants, so mingled and commingled with the fray, that ofttimes the lat- ter would strike down their own comrades, think- ing them birds; and Almanazar, mortally wound- ing, as he supposed, a savage Arab, would behold him rise into the air and renew the combat from above. Already he had slain twice the tale of his own domestics, yet the foe continued to ad- vance with undiminished forces. How long the nnequal combat would have been sustained, I know not. The knight, already *8   178      BRAZEN GATES. faint with his many wounds, still fought with wonderful bravery; when, all at once, in the pressure of conflict, the fragrance of the lily- blossomed wreath floated up into his face, and he remembered how he had never made Johnnie's dear name his battle-cry, though well, I ween, he had bben frequent victor in the contested field. With all his strength he shouted the talismanic words, "God and the Lady Delight!"At the sound, the white camel trotted up to his master; and the Falcon, rising into the air, struck vio- lently the face of the stalwart Arab, who still led the assault. Blinded by the force of the blow, he sank to the earth, and the young knight, scarce knowing what he did, planted his foot on the breast of his prostrate foe. A strange alteration took place in the features of the fallen enemy. It was a woman who lay outstretched upon the sand. "Son," she said, faintly, "loose me; I will do thee no harm. I swear it by the stars shining above us." Almanazar staggered back, the ruddy color fading from his cheeks. "Mother!" he exclaimed, "art thou alive  What, if I had slain thee?" "Oh! thou wouldst not then need to give me the loan of thy -beast," answered she, springing ;,   BRAZEN GA TES.      19 upon the creature's back. "As it is, I will have to take it I go to see to the Lady Delight." The camel became a great bird. Instantly spreading his wings, he hastened upward, and with him disappeared the screaming falcons, angry men, tents, and equipage.  Almanazar stood alone with his little friend. "Adieu, Sir I night!" quoth the latter. I thank thee for defending me. I will repay thee in due time. Take a magpie's advice for once, and return with all speed to thite own castle. As for me, I must hasten to the aid of my nest- lings; they need me."  Almanazar, now left to himself, strode thoughtfully toward the Nilus, much revolving in his mind the strange adven- ture which had come upon him. As often as he tried to determine with himself the nature of his late companion, he paused perplexed, for he op could by 'no means be certain whether he had fallen victim to a hateful fiend in league with his unnatural mother, or whether he had been so blessed as to entertain an angel unawares. Grief at the loss of Johnnie's staff overcame him, for this it was that had, in a camel's form, been that very morning stolen from its master; and he wondered how, without food or means of conveyance, he ivas to reach Alexandria, whence he hoped to set sail for Brittany.   180      B RAZE YN GaATES. Presently he bethought him of the coin, the gift of the Falcon, and he began to turn it over in his hand and surmise its use, when he per- ceived a commotion among the great leaves of the lotus-blossoms that grew near the river's brink. A little green skiff sailed out from among them, making, as it moved, a faint singing sound, hardly to be distinguished from the voice of tEe stream. Almanazar stepped into the tiny boat, and, moving from the shore, commenced to drift quickly down stream, dragged by the current. Ever as he glided on, the half-revealed image of a maiden stared at him from the watery mirror. Whichever way he turned, she followed him, and to his nervous ears the little skiff seemed to be ever singing the same song to the plash of the waves. Over and over again ran the rippling harmony, now louder, now softer, now half-lost amid the stronger voices of the waters, and again rising clear and distinct to his ear. So the babe, pil- lowed upon its mother's breast, hears, and hears not, that mother's lullaby-hears, for it ever- wakens when the song is hushed-; hears not, since its little soul wanders far off in the blissful dream-heaven of God, borne thither on the very wings of the unnoted. melody. "Who doth sail on the river so free, Down where the lotus-blossoms be? ,/   BRA ZE f GASTES.         181 White-blossomed lotus, Sweet-scented lotus, Blooming so fairly, regally, rarely, Where the deep-flowing river we see. "Many men sail on the river so free, - And in their breasts brave hearts there be; 'But the white-blossomed lotus, Sweet-scented lotus, Blooming so sleepily where the still waters lie, Wakes not for them, their splendor to see. "But who sails now on the river so free? A youth, who the lotus' love shall be. White-blossomed lotus, Sweet-scented lotus, Wakens to song as the boat glides along, Bearing the youth so dreamily." The singer no longer stretched out her empty arms; she clasped the little bark, and began to draw it down, down, to the green and crystal halls where dwelt her race, below the turbid waters of the Nilus.  "Come, thou," she seemed to say; "come with me, thou wondrous youth.       I will give thee another golden tress for the one that blows from  thy glittering helm.   Come, and we will always dwell:happily together."    And still she drew the- tiny skiff toward her, lulling the entranced ear of the k]night by the full gush of her song. But Almanazar loved no maiden save the Lady   182      BRAZEN GATES. Delight, and his pure heart was so altogether hers, that the voice of the singer seemed hateful to his ears, as the cup of poison is to the unvilling vic- tim, even when mingled with the golden spoil of the hive. H- e sprang froin the little skiff and hurriedly swam toward the shore. The long slimy stems - - of the lotus twined about his limbs, and, their - broad leaves impeded the free sweep of his arms, and flapped against his face; but he kept bravely on. He has almost reached the shore, when lo! far out in the stream, a maiden raises her yellow head above the waters, and calls piteously upon his name. Well does the hero remember the tones, sweet and clear even when sent forth by agony.  tHe turns, and grasps his loved Delight in his arms, and a second time strikes out for the land. A hoarse caelde greets him. It is no fair maiden who clings trustfully to his heart. The form is withered; the features are haggard and ugly; the voice is his mother's! "Be strong, my son, and swim bravely," cries the malicious hag. ' Fry life is at stake, as well as thine own. I shall certainly perish if thou dost not reach the shore." ,A minute after, the knight laid his horrid bur- i       BRAZE GA TES      183 den upon the bank, and climbed on to the ground at her side. "I suppose I should be very thankful, Sir Boy," she exclaimed, shaking the water from her dripping garments. "Methought thou didst hold mne somethng less tenderly when it was made plain to thee who I was. I shall tell the Lady Delight, on her- nuptial day, how I found thee nearly drowned in a wicked chase after a soft- hearted Nile-spirit. Here is the coin, for a wit- ness of thine identity. I plucked it from thy furred pouch when I lay in thy bosom for a beautiful water-maiden." "Mother," said Almanazar, quietly, "in my whole life I have never done thee any harm.- never spoken to thee an unkind word; I will not speak the first this day. Thou hast possessed thyself of all my magic gear, and I well know the use thou wilt make thereof. .Only I beg thee that thou wilt not be unkind to my poor Delight. More lovely maiden never lived, than she. And, mother "--here the tall stripling looked beseech- ingly, tenderly, pityingly, at the withered crone- "hadst thou been an hundred times mine enemy, thou shouldst have met the samne care as when thou didst lie in my arms and seem to be my love." "I shall take pains not to prove the truth of   .            .   184      BRA ZEZN GA TES. thy words, young sir. As for her thou darest to call thy ' Delight,' I brought her home to a hand- some young suitor, this early dawn. There is no reason why she should not live very happily with him, though, to be sure, he will stand no trifling." "Touching that,"' returned the knight, "I do not see how thy words can very well be true. The Lady Delight makes no idle promises, and this wreath of water-lilies is -the earnest of her troth to me. Sweeter token could no lover ask. While the snowy blossoms look brightly at me when I gaze upon them in the early morning, and again as the sun sinks below the level of the earth, so long I know that Delight's maiden heart is mine: even as my whole being is devoted to her. There is none strong enough to part us.'? The woman, who had risen to her feet while the youth thus poured forth his trust in his love, fairly stamped with rage as he ended his speech. "Is this indeed thy belief a Let us try if thy water-lilies will flourish as well in the Nilus as. they do on dry ground." The earth shook, and the little jutting strip of land whereon they stood suddenly sunk .beneath the waters, while the sorceress vanished. A second time precipitated into the foaming flood, weary with his late exertions, and encumbered by his heavy armor, Almanazar was in an evil   BRAZEN GATES.       185 plight to reach the-now distant shore. He was unable to move his limbs; they felt as if weighed -down by some bulky load, and, after a few faint struggles, he resigned himself to his fate. But now the lily-blooms, that formerly hindered his motions, seemed to uphold his fainting form. The wreath about his neck twined lovingly among the lotus-blossoms, and every fragrant flower, like the white hand of a river-spirit, lent its aid to lift the youth above the waters. When the sun had almost sunk out of sight, a solitary horseman rode along the river-side. Looking out on the Nile, he spied a yellow mass floating upon the waves like a net-work of gold, shining and glittering in the level beams. Over- come by curiosity, the knight sprang from his charger, and brought from the river a golden- armored youth, pale as death. Dripping with the bright water-drops, there hung a long yellow curl from his unclosed helm, and the stranger gave a start as he recognized the stripling to be Prince Almanazar of the Brazen Gates, a hero well known both in Britain and Frankland. Under his skilful fingers the youth soon revived, and great was the joy of these two young scions of knighthood to hear again from friendly lips the sweet accents of home. Together they pro- ceeded on their way, discoursing of the court of t   186      BRAZEN GATES. -, Richard, and the bright and joyous tourneys of TFrankland, where they had been wont to meet in happier times. "Ilast thou found thy water-fairy, thy De- light?" asked Sir Raoul at length-for Sir ad6ul it was. "I remember, thou wert on a search after her when last I beheld thee. Nay, thou needst not answer," continued the -kind- ihearted knight; "I see thy lack of success in thy face." "And thou?" quoth Almanazar; "at that time thou wast hastening in quest of fame and honor, for sake of a certain lonely maiden who looked not with favor upon thy suit. Hast thou been well sped in thy wanderings?'" The knight sighed deeply. 'I set free the captives indeed," he made reply, "but, having found my love, I even then lost her. Being victor in the lists-at Brierie, I had brought the guerdon over to her, when a mailed hand- seemed to part us. I suddenly found myself traversing these barren sands, and hera have I been ever since." "But I met thee going to the burial," said the other, astonished. "Thy limbs were stiff, and thine arms lay on the bier." "Stiff!" quoth Sir Raoul, irritably. "I have half a  mind to show thee somewhat of their   BRAZEN GATES.       18     o limberness. And as for the arms, that's the worst of it. The thievish miscreants have possessed themselves of my sword, and my shield, whereon I had caused to be painted in bright colors the whole account of my victory over the Robber Baron, and many other noble enemies. This, inl fact, is- my most bitter loss, as the portraits were all taken from the corpses after the conflict, and now the bodies have assuredly turned to dust, and can never be repainted." Suddenly the knight caught sight-of Almana- zar's lily-wreath, where glowed with fiery beauty the Chrysanthemum. "Where gottest thou yon blossom?" cried he, placing one hand on his sword, and turning very white. "If thou camest by it through foul means, thou shalt find a bloody bed not much better than a watery one!" "I have no very great fear of thy threats," returned the other, with much coolness " lbut, seeing that I have not any reason for withholding the story, know that I found it- in the lists at Brierie. "      - "Darest thou own thyself to be a man8? began Sir Raoul, furiously. "For shame i " returned Almanazar. "Think- est thou I could do sot unknightly a deed? The tourney was ended when I rode down the vale,   188      BRAZE N GATES. and I spied the pretty floweret trampled under foot upon the white sands. It looks something brighter since I twined it amid my magic gar- land." "I crave thy pardon," quoth the now blush- ing knightr. "I meant not to insult thee; but shouldst thou ever stand in my place, thou wilt feel what it is to hate and distrust a whole world. Besides, as thou dost very well know, the lovely maid who wears the scarlet blossom is passing dear to me." "Thou shalt have the bright little floweret for thyself, then," returned A lmanazar, smililig; "but I hold it strange that the mirror of chivalry, Sir Raoul de Tecoma, should linger thus in Egypt, forgetful of his waiting and perhaps imperilled bride!" "I journey as quickly as may be," answered the youth; " but the misfortunes of that ill- starred tilt at Brierie are not yet ended. Some unseen power holds me fast prisoner; and, though I have done as best I might to escape, yet I have thus far failed to discover both mine enemy and the means of eluding his spells. Of late, how- ever, I have succeeded better, and am now on my way toward Alexandria, thence to make sail for Frankland." "I also will go thither," said Almanazar, joy- /      -   BRAZEN GATES.       1l9 fully; "there is reason why we should lose no time. Only, dear comrade, come with me to my castle on thy homeward way; mayhap we can be of aid to one another in our adventures; and my lily-blooms droop sadly at the thought of part- ing company with thy blood-red blossom." i t    C ANPTER XV. "Naught shall: prevail against us, or disturb Our cheerful faith." EAS  N ^ATIME the garden grew daily more fair, and tempted Johnnie sorely to enter and gaze upon the gay flowerets; buts the fear of again wounding the sensitive plants made her choose rather to remain outside the charmed shades. Often she wandered about the mossy banks of the moat, and hour after hour watched the white ships sailing along the sea not a full mile from the castle; but the flowers were unmolested. The Brazen Gates stood wide open, and the hot summer-time  breathed over all, when, one morning, the little maid tripped into the grassy court-yard: The shining veil hung over her shoul- ders, and her blue eyes danced merrily beneath her long lashes. They lighted upon a  woman old and feeble; who, wrapped close in her scarlet -   BRAZiEN GATS.       191 cloak, stood leaning against one of the massive pillars of the entrance. "I bring thee a message," quoth the dame- "a message thou wilt be glad to hear. Almana- zar sends thee greeting; he is on his way hither, and craves rest for the night."5 A flush of joy rose to Johnnie's fair face, and called up the raforgotten dimples to her cheeks. "He has come for me," she thought. "I will soon teach him to forget all his pain, and we will be happy." "The knight brings his lady with him," went on the old woman. "He wooed and won her : in Egypt. Folk say she was once a lily of the Nilus. He cares very tenderly for her, whoever she may be." Johnnie grew very white. She felt as if the hateful being'before her had snatched all the sunlight out of her soul, a moment since so merry and joyous; but she answered, coldly, "I must doubt the truth of thy words, good mother, since he thou speakest of is my betrothed husband. Beware how thou makest mention of him: he is no promise-breakler! "Loolk for thyself," cried the dame, pointing, as she spoke, with her trembling hand toward two far-off figures toiling up the steep. "Say, is   192      BRA'ZEN GATES. not that thy knight yonder? and tell, if thou canst, who leans so lovingly on his shoulder." "I will not doubt my true-love by looking," said Johnnie, turning her back to the gateway. "I know right well it is no Almanazar who comes hither, bearing a strange maiden in his arms. I will not listen to such false words touching him. Either take back thy slander, or leave the court- yard! I have no lying tongues about me in his absence. Peradventure, if I listened too long, I might even begin to doubt his honor; and that were worse than death itself." The face of the false witch grew black as midnight, while she thus made answer: "May- hap thou hast forgot this token," quoth she, show- ing, as she spoke, a clear jewel in its narrow golden rim. "It is the payment the lady made me for the errand I have but just performed." "I remember it well," replied Johnnie, stretch- ing out her hand for the bauble. "I will not lend it to thee," said the old woman, dropping it into her bag. "I love it for the sake of the pretty giver, though it was not for my pleasure that she made the gift. Even thus spake the gentle dame: ' I hate the sight of yon gem,' cried she; 'it hath unpleasant memories. I like rather to think I am the only one who hath ever dwelt in my lord's heart.' 'But it hath been of  .    BRA ZEN GATES.      193 service to us in our journey,' thus the knight made reply; ' it is, moreover, no- maiden's gift; I found it on the desert-sands, not far from the Nilus.' ' It hath been in her wardship,' the lady returned, right quick; and because she would have it so, the knight, her husband, dropped it into my hand, with a laugh. I prize it rarely," added the crone. Johnnie said nothing, and the hag went on: ".I can already see the yellow tress adorning the golden hel'm of the prince; 'and shall I take back my words?  Almanazar is no constant scion of knighthood,- that he should cling forever to a silly girl like thee, and one who has used him so ill besides. Too much of his mother's blood runs in his veins for that.' -  "I know I have been very unkind," said the maiden, slowly; "but he is forgiving." M en will not bear everything,'" mumbled the dame. "But I must hasten back, to say that thou wilt give him harborage for a little. The lady he brings is weak and ill. His waving curl flies from his helm at a near point of the steep. They Nwill soon be here." "Now I know  of a surety thou liest " quoth Johnnie, glowing with wrath.  "That painted phantom who comes hither is' none other than a creature-of thine accursed art, if he wear the, ,   194:     BRA ZEN  A TES. favor of one maiden, and bear in his bosom the form of another-false alike to both. Think not that thou art unknown to me, thou origin of all my miseries! In the fame of Christ, avaunt!"  The old woman fled with a dismal howl, and JohnTie, hastily pushed the immense gates, as if to close them against her retreating form. They flew together with a dreadful crash, like as when, in a frightful storm, the masses of electric cloud part for a moment, and, showing the sun-lighted sky above, suddenly- rush against one another with vehement fury, and shake the whole earth with the noise of their battle-cry. The little maiden who had caused all this, stood terrified and aghast at the effect of her act; and it was not until a cheery shout rang over the tow- ering barriers, that she, took her eyes from their horrid outlines. "Lady--dear Lady Delight!" cried the voice, , open the doors, I pray! I am come to claim thee for my wife." "Art thou in very truth Almanazar? quoth Johnnie. :' "If thou canst not ,say 'Yea,' hasten hence, and trouble me no further, for I belong to none but he. For God's sake, answer me rightly! I am only a poor little child. I never harmed any one in my life, except my love." ; " am Almnanazar, and I earnestly beg admit- 9   0.         .   BBAZEN GATES.       195 tance, seeing I bring with me one who stands much in need of thy hospitality," returned the knight.  "Yes, it is none other," hissed a voice close beside the maiden; "he waits-to enter.  But thou wilt scarcely open the gates. They are shut too fast to yield, should an hundred armed knights assault them. How much, thihkest thou, will a weak woman be able to do toward unclosing their mighty bolts?       - "It is false! ' cried Johlnnie. "I can unbar the gates." She flew to the brazen monsters, and with trembling fingers strove to undo the ponder- ous fastenings, but all in vain. It was as if one of the frail white flowerets growing under the shade of the castle had 2triven to tear down its - massive rock-hewn battlements. . But not until her torn and bleeding hands forced her to desist, did the dauntless 'maid give up her purpose. "Alas! alas! dear Almanazar," shecried, when she saw how useless were-her endeavors, "canst thou ever forgive me? The gates are fast shut, and I cannot open them.   What shall I do? How- can I reach thee?"  "Thou canst not reach him  at all," said the hag, stepping from behind one of the great bra- zen pillars. "Thy bones shall moulder away ere these brazen barriers are one whit gnawed by the   196      BRAZEN GATES. + hand of Time; and assuredly naught else can prevail against their charmed forms. Thou hast made thy bed; now lie in it." "Oh, say. that thou forgivest me, mine own true knight!" moaned Johnnie, weeping bitterly, ' and promise that -thou wilt not go hence and leave me here alone. Bult no!" she exclaimed, dashing away the falling tears; "I am false to myself when I ask it. Rather hasten quickly, and find thee a mate far away from this hateful castle, my destined tomb, and I will not be so very unhappy when I know that thou art satis- fied. Indeed, my dear love, I will not!" "Have no fear, sweet little maiden," quoth Almanazar; "I do not depart till -I bear thee with me; and that, I trow, will hardly come to pass until these ugly doors are hewn down by my trusty sword. Only I beseech thee not to weep ; for then my hand grows unsteady, and my blows are not firm." Therefore Johnnie dried her blue eyes and laughed joyfully, and replied: "Now be not dis- mayed, but strike boldly, for when thou art come in hither, I will meet thee at the threshold, and we will never be sundered again. Ah, it is far better to have thee here, where thy voice comes to me, even if outside the gates, than with the broad seas -rolling between us! i   BRAZEN- GATES.      197 Right valiantly did- the young hero address himself to his task, and right earnestly did John- nie pray for his success; but no sooner did the false metal begin to give way beneath his sturdy blows, than a larger bolt appeared to strengthen the yielding part, and all was as- bad as before. Week after week passed, and still he stood before those terrible barriers, and every day the maiden comforted him by her merry words and cheerful laughter. 'Twas well that he could not see how hollow the mirth, how pale the cheek, of the stout-hearted prisoner. Each night she lighted the castle from turret to foundation, and much she, wished for her trusty Falcon to bear more weighty tokens of her love across the tow-ering portals. :At length the untiring blows at the castle-gate fell less frequently. I The unknown companion of the knight had' become even more ill; and now, divided betwixt duty to his friend and love to his *Lady, Almanazar found little heart to continue his endless labor. Each day brought some fresh hindrance, some unkind trick from his mother; but Johnnie, when she learned how matters stood, said, cheerfully: "Be not troubled, my dear knight. Whosoever the dame may be who needs thy care, fear not to render all due service to her. I shall not be made unhappy thereby."   19S      BRAZEN GATES. Then Almanazar answered, astonished: "I cannot comprehend thee, dear Lady. I have no woman with me. It is the doughty knight, Sir Raoul de Tecoma, who lies ill without; but I much fear he never will ride away from this ter- rible spot, since of late he hath beeni too weak even to mount his charger. Besides myself there is here none other than he." "Is this truly so?" quoth Johnnie, covered with blushes. "Thy mother- she whom we have both such cause to fear-said that there was in thy company a maiden, thine affianced bride. Indeed, I trusted her not in this matter; but when I found it was really thee, I believed thy companion to be some damsel travelling in thy wardship. The dame even showed me a coin, the same I forgot in the ruins near the Nilus, and said it was a guerdon from thy wife, for bringing me word of thine approach." Alrnanazar made no answer to this. Too loyal to his mother needlessly to disclose her villany, he came back, therefore, to the other matter, and asked, indignantly, "Why hast thou not made mention of the thing? I knew nothing of thy doubts." "Should I distrust my kmight again?" re- turned the maiden, "and that even while he   BRAZEN GATES.        199 suffered from ,ny folly? Surely I knew full well thou wouldst do me no wrong. AAd if thou hadst wished to tell me of the stranger, there was no hindrance; I left it all with thee." &                  "'" v!   C- T A PTER X V 1. 4' My heart is very tired; my strength is low; My hands are full of blossoms plucked before, Held dead within them till myself shall die." MRS. BROWNING. I  RI-HE    early moon rose calm    and still, and the flowers in   the garden awoke from their light slumbers and listened to the knight's evening hymn: May God, who shields us ever, Guard us to-night: Wake us to fresh endeavor With morning light: . "Keep us from grief and sinning-- Teach us His love; Till, palms of glory winning, His strength we prove. "Near flows the sluggish river, And deep and dark Run its black waters ever; Keenest eyes mark O    -                       in   BRA ZEN  GATES.       201 "Nothing upon its bosom, Only, beyond, Lights gleami through mists arisen, And o'er the ground, "White-robed and shining-footed, Figures appear,. Fading like Iris beautied, Like her-like her of air. "Come, gentle keeper, O'er the black wave; Shed light, give succor, Guide us and save." Johnnie, far up in her turret-chamber, caught the sweet strain, and lifted her soul to heaven on its soft pinions. How near seemed heaven 'at that moment, when the blessed words were clothed in her lover's accents! In this pavilion, close outside the Brazen Gates, rested the two young heroes; the sick man worn and wasted by his long illness, and Almanazar weary with ceaseless watching.    Little, indeed, would any one have recognized, in the sallow- cheeked, hollow-eyed figure who lay moaning and tossing about on the unrestful cushions, that once blooring stripling, the hero of so many brilliant tourneys. "I  can scarce last another week, dear com- rade," quoth he, rising on. one elbow and looking 9*   202      BRAZEN -GATES. sadly at his friend. "If thou dost not hew down those horrible gates before long, thou wilt be fain to dig me a grave aby the river bank yon- der, and enter the chalrmed castle without me." "No, indeed; that can never be! X" answered Almanazar, cheerfully. "We will yet walk into the grassy court-yard together, and lend a new life to the mouldering pile." "It may be," returned Sir Raoul. "I woutld I were as sure of seeing my love again, as thou art of rejoining thine! I dragged myself down to the'spring this morning; its surface was all decked with water-lilies." "Even so it used to be long ago. But what sawest thou there?" asked Almanazar, eagerly. "Nothing in the water," answered Sir Raoul, "but much, as I lay asleep on- the mossy bank. And, now I call it to mind, the dream may have a meaning for thee as well as me." "Thou sawest my mother--didst thou not?." quoth Almanazar. "The spring is enchanted; one may read the future in its waters." "If thy mother be either a she-devil or an angel of light, I must have beheld her," returned the sick man, fretfully; "for these two beings were present in my dreams. I. looked into the garden yonder, and there I saw, weeping as of yore, the scarlet-blossom that I hold fairest upon /   BRA ZEN GATES.       203 earth, and I drew near to comfort her. Then a black-browed witch came angrily to me, and said, ' What doest thou here a Almanazar stands be- tween thee and happiness. If he would but cease his attempts to storm my palace, I would willingly give up thy lady." "And what answer madest thou?" cried Al- manazar. "Only, that thou shouldst meet no hindrance from me, but rather all help and comfort, as one true knight is bound to give another;" returned he of the trumpet-crest. "The other lady made reply to the dark-faced one also," went on the youth, softly. "' Thou shalt not tempt the strip- ling,' she said; I called him hither to bid him be of good courage, for all shall soon be well.' And so it will be for thee, dear Almanazar; but I shall never see thy happiness." "How sad-hearted is the Clarion of War to- night!" cried the other, affectionately. "I doubt if thy angelic protectress led thee into the garden only to- make thee weep. Did she not say some helpful word to cheer thee? ." "The black-visaged one sang a rhyme, if that be comfort," retorted Sir Raoul. "Listen, and judge for thyself: "' The magic gear is in my keeping; All the fair maids sit lonely weeping;   204      -BRA ZEN GATES. Misery keeps watch unsleeping; DDespair is hourly nearer creeping; ' Death hither com es on pinion sweeping.' Cold comfort I call that!  See how blue yon candle burns in the wind!" "I crave thy pardon for pressing the matter!" said Almanazar, gently, as he moved the taper out of the air; "but I marvel that the otheri spirit made no reply. She is not wont to be silent in my mother's presence." "HIow  so?  Was yonder hag thy mother?" quoth Sir Raoul. "'It is none else that hath brought us all this misery," answered' Almanazar, sadly.   "But speak no harsh words of her: she also hath suf- fered." "The fair angel did say something," said the sick knight, after a pause; " but I cannot call it' to mind.   Only the last line or so comes back to me. Thus it runs : "' Then my power thou most shalt see, When the gifts return to thee.' But I   considered the matter of little weight-  only some   foolish woman's quarrel, in fact-and paid no heed to it. They are always wont to give -- !   BRAZEN  GATES.        205 presents, and then, becoming angry;to insist on their being returned. I myself have often had such experiences."    i. "Hark!" cried Almanazar, putting his hand on his friend'; "hearest thou not that music? Oh, how sweet is the speech of my loved one!" "Merrily dances the firefly, Cheerily sings the bird, While the soft winds blowing round us,- Whisper their music unheard;. For my love and I, Sitting happily, Picture ourselves a future as bright As the lazy glow-worm's glittering light. "Softly the harvest-moon wanes; Deeper the shadows grow; While the watch-dog's bark 's All the sound that marks How the moments come and go. Past my love and I The hours slip by; Each for the other We'll live and we'll die." It was Johnnie who sang the little ballad, hop- ing thus to cheer her dear youth in his weary vigils; and, indeed, his eyes grew  bright, and his lips parted with a tender smile. But Sir Raoul, with cheek flushed by fever and hand unsteadied by its devouring fire, snatched the lute from the   206        BRA ZEN GA TES. lover's lap, and thus made answer in right sor- rowful fashion: "Red glow the clouds of morning; Bright is the rising sun; Sparkles the dew on the meadow; Glancing the brooklets run; But my love and I Far asunder sigh: Say, shall we ne'er be one, by and by? "Hot comes the breath of noontide; The birds are all still in the' rees The cricket makes love in the hay-fields; Hard at work in the flowers are the bees:- And my love and I Pray earnestly Once more each other's face to see. "Solemn the rain-clouds gather; Patt'ring the rain-drops fall Down on our leaf-covered coffins, Plaining of death to all; But my love and I -Are happy on high, Though our forms will soon 'neath the daisies lie." Johnnie, in her lonely turret, heard, weeping, the melancholy strains, and     Arlmanazar begged his friend to cease this ill-judged minstrelsy.   With- in the garden they awoke the long-sleeping sor- rows   of the tender-hearted flowers, and all shed bitter tears.  Only the  stately Chrysanthemum   BRAZEN   GATES. -       297 stood erect and unyielding.    "The voice! the voice!" she cried; " whence comes it?   Ah, the words are not sad to me; they are the blessed call of my saintly lover, my knight above all peer!  Even so sounded his dear tones on that fatal day at Brierie."  Argarica   sobbed  aloud. "Oh!", she     ex- claimed, dolefully, "how    true are the  good youth's verses!  Just so is my heart torn    by love; just so I mourn all the day long." The flowers heard her in amazement. "      Why shouldst thou grieve?." they cried.  "What heart has the Mushroom    ever shown?. " "You    are  all very unkind," she answered. "If ever I live, I will go forth to him.    I am sure he desires me.    Only listen, and I will sing the matter to you: "' Who is it grows so fair, where the well-ploughed glebe is up- turned? Not armed with sword and shield, but with firm, erected head; Not afraid of the sun, and clad in a hair-lined jerkin; All the summer long he hath been seen there, And the peasant-boys cast friendly eyes at him; Not long since he wore a green coat so jauntily, I had half a mind to fall in love with him and kiss him, Because of his downy cheeks, so hearty and handsome. "' I have watched him ever so many months already; I love him for his politeness more than I did for his beauty.   208       BRAZEN    GATES. When the wind comes, he bows his head in right stately fashion, And every morning wears a yellow dress spangled over with jewels. Nobody cares to meddle with him, for his head's armed with a right sharp helmet, And his plump round face -is bearded and beautiful; When -you part -his lips, you see his teeth white and lovely within; And when he speaks, his voice sounds like the white surf on the sea-shore. In all the country round there's never a yeoman as noble as he is."' "It is the Wheat yonder," cried     the flowers, when she ceased; for she spoke more as if relat- ing  a riddle, than like one who tells a love-story. "It is the Wheat.    But he will never marry thee, Argariea; his thoughts are on his broad fields and green meadows." "We will see," returned    she, much  abashed. "I have made up my mind     to ask about the mat- ter, anyway."- * * ' t - ' y   ^-AP PTER X V 11. "Whichever way my-days decline, I felt, and feel, though left alone, Her being working in my own- The footsteps of her life in mine," TENNYSON. "the hot summer morning had the blos- soms of the Passion-Vine been radiant in the yellow sunshine. Ever since early dawn had a pair of purple wings waved slowly to and fro, gathering strength and size from the gentle motion. At last the Chrysalis had given up its prisoner.; the Butterfly was free. "Stay yet a little more in the shadow,5" quoth Davie, softly; " thou art not yet strong enough to fly away over the wide world, Let me shelter thee for a while, till the hot sun shall lose its power. See, it even scorches my blossoms; their heads hang drooping from their limp stems." "What can I'do for thee, my lady, my queen? What service can I render,'to make thee happy a." quoth the Butterfly, poising himself on his bril-   i ll  210      BRAZEN  GATES. liant pinions, and hovering above the majestic flower. " Only fan me with thy wings, dearest; for to have thee near, is happiness. But see how ready thou art to leave me! " returned the maid, sor- rowfully. "The air is full of birds, who will pounce upon thee, and in my shadow thou art safe. Inowest thou not that the earth is empty without thee ? Ah, to lose thee now would be a thousand times worse than if thou hadst never gained thy beautiful ornaments." "Since I have them, they shall gladden my darling," quoth he, waving the purple beauties gently before- her. " I would love right well to shelter thee from the heat; but see, my whole shade will not cover thy smallest blossom. Where is that- lazy Zephyr.? He should be stirring. Sirrah, how darest thou so neglect thy duty? Blow! blow, idle breeze! The lady-flower here faints with heat. Why doth he not obey ?-the saucy knave! When he comes, scold him well, darling. Meantime, I will just take a sail up- ward toward yonder turret. The little maiden there hath a truly enchanting voice. Didst thou not hear her song last even ? " " Yes, of a truth I heard her," answered Da- vie, shortly; and then; ashamed of her returning bitterness, she added, " I listened to the knight   BRA ZEN GATES.      2" outside the gates also. How full were his notes, though the words of the ballad seemed passing sad to me." "I liked not at all his song or his singing," quoth the Butterfly. "His tones were hoarse, and he spoiled my rest. But the little maid is charming. I wish thou hadst a voice!" ' I have," answered Davie, sorrowfully; "but what music was once in my soul, small heart have I had of late to warble forth. Mayhap I will sing some day, if yon turret-dwellei have not altogether spoiled my minstrelsy for thee." "No one can ever do that, dear maiden. Were thy voice as harsh as the frogs' who croak nightly in the moat, thou wouldst ever be a 'pleasant talk- er in my ears.' Then, as this seemed to have no good effect upon the Passion-Flower, he -contin- ued: "; Thou knowest that I love thee; and, if such is thy desire, I will even abide here with thee, and let the little one go."y "I wish not to take away thy pleasure," quoth- Davie, wholly satisfied. a Go; I mvill not hinder thee. I know right well the truth of thy words; only be not very long absent, lest I grow too weary before thy return." "I will soon be back,9l answered the Butterfly; and he spread his wings and soared gayly away, while the Passion-Vine looked tenderly after him.   212      BRAZEN GATES. For the first time she mourned that she was a flower. "God knoweth if he ever come back," she thought; "and what is life without him? O Christ, if it be for mercy I have been sheltered here, give back my womanhood, and let me fol- low my love." The snaky hag hobbled slowly through the garden, and passed up the white winding stair- case. Wild with terror, the flower struggled to fol- low- her. Heaven is pitiful. Davie was once more free. ... "It is very evident, my dear Lady Delight," said Almanazar that morning, as Jolhnnie hast- ened in the early sunshine to the gates-:-" it is,. alas! but too certain that'I can never hew down these charmed barriers alone. If Heaven will not vouchsafe some new help, we shall both be gray ere I can call thee my wedded wife." The red sun shone on the plashing waters of the moat, as JohTnie turned her troubled gaze thither. Presently she thought of something so small that her lover laughed as she told him. "I have heard," quoth she, after a pause, " that flowers are beautiful in the eyes of God; so I will do this for thee, my love. -From the banks will I pluck the dewy blossoms, and adorn there- with my turret-cliamber to the honor of God. X    BRA ZEN GA TES.       213 Perchance their mute faces may be a fair offer- ing to Him who considers the lilies. Of a surety we are much more valuable to the gentle Jesus than the tender flowerets that line the castle fosse. So it was that Johnnie gathered her lap full of blossoms, and sat in her lofty chamber weaving them into a dainty garland. As the maiden twisted the flexible stems, she murmured a prayer over her handiwork: "Dear Saviour, Lily of the Valley, Red Rose of Sharon, have pity on me! See, the perfumed links of this little chain are easily twisted ; but alas! my life's golden cord is all unwound; and who shall gather the strands, if thou wilt not?" Then came to her mind a quaint Latin rhyme. Where she had heard it she liew not, or who had said it in her presence; but as she laid flower after flower upon the wreath, she chanted over and over again the strange-sounding words, while little by little their sweet old story came back to her: "Aura non sunt mihi Et argenta; Quod autem habeo, 'Hoe tibi do:  In Jesu nomine, Christi Nazaraei, surge, -Et ambula." O;         * -   214      BRAZEm  GATES. All at once a flutter of wings about the maid- en's sunny head, and a gorgeous butterfly circled  around the tiny room." Again and again chanted she the wonderful lullaby, and with ever-quicken- ing flight hastened the insect through the air. "In Jesu nomine, Christi Nazaroei, surge, Et ambula." Very softly fell the gentle accents of the singer -so softly, that the summer air scarce bore them over to the fluttering thing that hung on her words; but when ceasing, she looked up: the butterfly had vanished, and a tall yellow-haired youth stood before her. " Thanks! thanks, dear maiden!" cried he; "thou hast given me back my manhood. How can I ever repay thee " "Leave me!" answered Johnnie, terrified. "If thou hast regained anything, it is through tl'j power of God, and not of my will. Indeed, I am not glad to see thee. Go! for the love of Hl:eaven, go I " "Thou art more fearsome than was the case a short time since," quoth the youth, with a good:I natured smile. a But there is no need, for my own lady is out in the garden yonder; and, if I -be not mistaken, it is thy lover who besieges the gates day and night."'      1BRAZEN GA TES.      215- I was not really frighted at thee, Sir Boy; but since Almanazar, the Tiger-Flower of knight- hood, hath come, perhaps I am less bold than for- merly. Besides, then I feared for another; to- day I thought only of myself. However, thou needst not to remember my ungracious words. Be welcome." Even as Johnnie spoke, a crutch sounded along the passage, and the door opened to admit the sorceress. Since the closing of the gates she had not been seen by the maiden, though tokens of her pres- ence in the castle were not wanting. The fish had one by one died in the globe; the lotus in the moat found little chance to bloom, their fair promise being withered in the bud; and a black hawk pounced down on the circling birds, and- frightened them quite away from the lonelbytur- ret-chamber. But now, intent on evil, the hag had come into the place made holy above all oth- ers by the ,prayers and daily life of the:-sweet maid dwelling there, and she stood half afraid to pass the threshold. Beholding the ruddy strip- ling, however; she hesitated not a second longer, but hobbled into the room, and began: "Thou keepest'strange company, young woman! Thinkest thou Almanazar would approve of thy allowing another damsel's lover to be here alone with thee2 "I   21(6     BRAZEN GATES. "My knight will find no fault with me, I ween, since we both trust one another; and the youth shall stay as long as he desires-that is, if he is always gentle and good as now." "-leaven sent me hither;" the latter made answer, with a grateful look at the saucy child;? "and she shall meet no sorrow at my hands, or at thine, if I can help it." Hisi blue eyes glanced down kindly upon the lily-mnaid, even as an iceberg laughing in the bright sunlight might gaze on, a shoal of silver-shining fishes sporting in the deep water- at its foot. Only in the face of the youth was a world of warm friendship. The sorceress lifted threatening eyes upon the bold lad thus openly defying her, and then turned to Johnnie with a horrible smile. "I did but jest, child," quoth she. "In truth, -I am sorry for thee. I have come to bring thee aid." "Then" take a seat, good mother," returned the ,damsel, uneasily. "My friends shall not lack such comfort as I have to give." But as she spoke, she moved away from her visitor, and closer to the tall, yellow-haired knight. The crone laughed shortly. "Thou wilt be * glad enough to get away from him anon," said she. AVhereat the maid put out one white hand, looking very beautiful in her childish opposition, while she patted the youth on the arm.   BR AZEN GATES.   .   21T Striving the while to smooth her ugly features into a smiling guise, the sorceress began: "Thou knowest that Almanazar is about giving up his useless endeavor to hew down my invincible gates. His companion dies of fever in a -few hours. This youth -here will hardly waste his whole life on thee; and, left thus alone, thou wilt perish miserably, without a friendly hand to smooth thy pillow." Johnnie nodded; but the knight observed: "Methinks the young scion without hath a mar- vellous strength of lfing for one dying. i-e sillgs with the voice of a spring torrent." "Now swear,' continued the witch, "by the great God, to give up Almanazar--never to wed him--and I will, for thy sake, do this thin gs I will open the gates and set free the maidens pris- oned in the garden, and save the sick man who lingers miserably without, and unite, thy sister Davie with her long-lost lover." Johnnie, indeed, was not misled by these lying words; but before she spoke, the youth exclaimed, eagerly, "Do not promise! Thy certain misery is seal'd, if thou dost. Think not of us; we will not be forgotten of God. If thou hast a faithful -lover, then cling to him; wrong him not by such a cruel vow. God forbid that, for the sake of any, my lady should so forget me."  10   218      BAZEN GAATES. There was a new light shining out of his ear- nest eyes, a new sense of manhood in' his stately head, as, thus casting aside self, he urged the maiden to her decision. But he needed not to reason, for she cried, firmly, "Such offers avail not. Almanazar is my true love, and I am his; there is nothing more to be said about it." "Thou wilt not promise? .' cried the witch, a spasm of rage distorting her withered face. "Thou art his forever) Then will I teach -thee to rue the' day that gave thlee to him." "Thy words can hardly come to pass," quoth Johnnie, gravely.; "I know right well that my own hands -have forged the weapons whereby thou hast hurt us both; and thine armory may, I wot, be not as yet emptied of such fighting gear; but even if I see my love's dear face never again, I will bear his image in my heart, and ever live a better, holier life, because it is there." The words were brave; but the maiden's eyes were full of passionate tears as she uttered them. "And I will stand by her and prqtect her," cried the stripling, who, with sparkling glance, looked down upon the dauntless maid. "So long as Almanazar is shut away from his own true sweetheart-yea, until she lies safe in his arms, his wife-I will fight for her; and I judge that I abate my duty to my own peerless Passion- ,/   BRA ZEN GATES.      219 Flower not one whit in so doing." He strode forward between thelily-child and her infuriate foe, speaking thus, and right, cheerily flashed his steely -armor in the bright sunlight. Almost as some fair angel, sent from heaven to deliver her, seemed he to simple-hearted Johnnie. Alas! not such in fact, for the angels, we know full well, have no blackened past to drag them down. "Darest thou speak?" quoth the sorceress, up- rearing herself in her mighty wrath,. and for a moment no longer a bent old woman, bowed with the double weight of crime and years, but a peer- lessly beautiful damsel, with a black head of snaky tresses, and brilliant snaky eyes, which she fastened upon the astounded youth. "Then shall the leopard indeed lie down with the kid. What right hast thou, a man whose hands reek with knightly blood, to consort with a pure, sinless maid, in whose heart is the kingdom of heaven?. It is written, that therein murderers have no part." The young knight reeled backward, as if struck by a heavy blow. "Without are sorcerers, and idolaters, and mur- derers, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie," she went on. , "There is thy place with me. Be- lievest thou that thy new-found virtue will avail? Live, if thou wilt, with thy Christian wife; but 1/   220      BRA ZEN GATES. think not to enter the pearly gates of the holy city by her side. No, I will drag thee thence; and when she and her companions, and thy ifriends, are fast shut within the radiant portals, thy portion is outside with me, among the dogs that cannot enter; and will the jewelled lustre of the -bulwarks of Zion lessen thy torments, thinnest thou? Do I not know? Is not my hus- band even now parted from me by the terrible gates?" "Sayest thou true?" said Snowflake, heavily. "Sayest thou true "  He leaned against the casement for support, and looked stupidly at her, as if his mind were crushed by the words. And where, indeed, were the bright hopes and-desires that a minute before had filled his breast? John- nie sat with her eyes fastened upon the terrible speaker, unable to move, as the timid gazelle eyes the enticing serpent. "It is not yet too late," went on the latter, rap- idly. "Thy immortality is not inevitable. No woman except -the flower-maiden in the garden yonder can give thee a soul, since thou wilt never love another. Take, then, the damsel here; she will soon learn to obey thee; and thou mayest live long in the full enjoyment of life, and be- troubled with no fears for the future. Look at her well; she is passing beauteous-far more so, ,/              -   BRAZEN GATES.      .221 to my thinking, than the one thou hast set thine heart upon."  For a moment the heavy eyes flashed, as the youth exclaimed, "I will not!" And then his face sank again into the same vacant, dazed ex- pression-a face with all the human snatched out of it, as impassible as stone. In vain Johnnie called and chided; he heard not. Ever gazing toward the hideous hag, his eyes followed with a blank stare her every motion, as, the- steel turns toward the magnet. A light footstep was heard through the awful stillness of the place, and Davie entered. Beau- tiful and majestic as of old, she hastened toward her beloved knight, and stretched out to him her arms right lovingly. The spell dissolved. He staggered forward, and, bowing his head on her neck, burst into tears. A moment his frame shook with sobs coming deep from his heart, and every one the death-pang of some cherished hope. So the fair ship shudders when she has'struck on the sharp-toothed rocks, and lies at the mercy of the hungry waves. A moment Davie soothed him with tender caresses, and pressed hot kisses on his broad, high forehead. Then the contest was ended; the .soul had put off the old nature; the youth stood before his faithful rescuer in the- grand dignity of manhood.   -222     BRAZEN GATES. "I have bidden thee good-by, dearest," he said, gently. "I have taken my resolve. I will go far away from thee. Weep not, darling. God knows I love thee better than my life. Nay, nay; I go for thy sake. Knowest thou not that no murderer enters the kingdom of heaven? Hear -hear me!" he exclaimed, vehemently putting away the imploring hands she laid on his shoul- ders; "I must depart. If I were to live here with thee, and we should go out and in before each other day by day, our hearts would speedily be so knit into one, that, when death came to part us, thou wouldst have no pleasure within the pearly gates of the celestial city, if I remained shut out. Therefore my resolve is fixed. I will hasten hence, and, after a little, it will be to thee as if I had never lived." But Davie clung about his neck and held him back with sobs and tears; while the sorceress laughed, delighted at the misery she caused. "Seest thou not why he goes ." quoth she. ' "'He fears the eternity of agony, more than he loves the sunlight of thy presence. Why detain him thus?" "Speak! speak!"  cried- Johnnie, springing impetuously forward, her blue eyes ablaze with indignation. "Speak, Sir Boy, and say it is not - 80. ]   BRAZEN GATES.       223 Then the youth folded Davie's caressing hands in his, and, turning calmly toward the little maid, would have answered; but the Passion-Flower said, softly, "Thou hast not thought of it, love; but it is true. Thou shalt not suffer thus for me. Go in peace. , I bid thee." - Looking downward into the maiden's soft and tearful eyes, he made reply: "Not with this blot on my name. Say, is there no change in me 2 Am I not better than of yore a " And when Davie answered, wonderingly, "Thou art very tender and lovable," he went on, with a sad, sweet smile, "This is because H have a soul. Thou, dearest, hast given it to me unwittingly. Whert in the heart of any of my race arises a passion stronger than the love of self-an immortal passionl-then that soul can never die, because the passion is a part of the soul, and by its power it binds forever the ele- ments of being. Such is love, for God the Eter- nal possesses it; and so great is my love for thee. Immortal, then, I live a little while in the warm sunlight of the beautiful green earth, and then forever in the place where it is appointed for murderers to be." "But Christ -can take away thy sin," quoth Davie. "He is ever slow to anger, and plente- ous in mercy. 'Surely He would not have given   224      BRAZEN GATES. thee to me, only- to snatch thee away again. Trust, then, Hs goodness, and by His goodness He will save.'" The mnaiden herself looked so trustingly out of her tear-wet eyes, that he was fain to believe her. A flash of joy passed over the lover's face, like the ray of sunlight that for a moment pierces the cloudy sky ere the black shades of night alto- gether close out the ruddy blessing, and as quickly it disappeared. "Alas! Christ may ,pardon, but that is not all, though by far-the most. I come of the race of Ice-heroes, and among them it is not permitted to a murderer to marry. Wettest thou not how the poor Gentian died on her bridal-night, and all because of this. most cruel law?. "' "Who shall lay anything to, the charge of God's elect 5" said Davie, softly. 'It is God that judgeth." "Thou art no longer an Ice-man," cried John- nie. "Thou art a warm mortal, like ourselves." "I will bring a charge against this crazy loon," quoth the sorceress. "Body and soul, he is mine. I saved his life when he first fell to the earth he has cursed, and I stand witness to his murders." "Love, if thou goest, I go with thee. It is no sin to die with one's- husband. If I be aught to thee, take me-cast me not off!" said the Pas- o10*    BRAZEN GATES.       225 sion-Vine, with her head on her darling's bosom. "Darest thou brave death for me?" :"Have I not, my own-my husband? Is this worse than what I have suffered? Oh, let me rather die than lose thee!" But the youth still shook his head sorrowfully. ' I dare not wed thee; the bridal-eve/ing would be thy death-warrant; and God knows I will not harm my little flower. To-morrow parts us for- ever." "That bridal-night shall never come," quoth the witch, pale as a stiffened corpse. Depart, Sir Knight! I command thee! And thou, silly girl, dream no more of such a marriage." But those to whom she spoke heard her not; the maiden's love had prevailed; they lived only for each other. Then began she, with many a wizard pass, to weave about the unhappy pair her accursed spells; and Johnnie, overcome with fear, beheld them falling into a trance, lost to all consciousness of outward things, still gazing ten- derly into each other's eyes. Scarce knowing her deed, she seized the long flowery rope which she had been all day twining amid prayers and tears, and threw it over the old woman, striving to bind. with the slender garland those skinny arms so powerful to do evil. Well have I learned that Heaven ofttimes   226     BRAZEN GATES. chooses the weak things of this world to prevail against the strong; and so it was that the hal- lowed wreath proved full enough to chain the unblest sorceress. Without the power of a babe beneath those holy bonds, the awakened lovers bore her to Johnnie's white couch; and when their burden was laid softly thereon, the two sis- ters fell into each other's arms, and kissed and wept, and wept and kissed again for very joy. "Ah, if I had only known the little turret- dweller to be my sister, how much sorrow we might have been spared! How foolish and wick- ed have I been!" cried Davie, remorsefully. "But I will never be jealous of thee again. Thou dost not care much for my knight?" said she, wistfully. "Jealous!" quoth Johnnie. "Why shouldst thou be  Having Almanazar, to compare with whom there is not a man living, what should I want of any one else, let alone such a great blue- eyed giant as thine yonder?" Davie flushed a little, and answered, angrily, "Let me tell thee, he is my dear lord, and not at all to be despised, if only on that account. Frankland or Brittany holds not such a strong and doughty knight;' and if thou carest aught for me, thou must also learn to love mAy hub- band." !   BRAZEN GATES.       227 "I would as soon love a thunder-storm," re- turned Johnnie, teasingly. "I That is what he is." "A thunder-storm that shall never break in thy presence, my 'precious wife!?" said the youth, looking softly into Davie's kindling face. "I will only use my power to terrify thine enemies. The Passion-Flower must needs see the silver " lining of the storm-cloud, since that is the side ever turned toward heaven; though the Water- Lily, dwelling always so far below, her sister among the marshes, may ofttimes shudder with fear at the dark prospect above." With that the lovers passed out of the room, down the lotus-covered stairway; but Johnnie, lingering a moment in search of her silver veil, thought she heard a faint groan from the figure motionless upon the bed, and paused to hear. The once-powerful sorceress lay with her fea- tures convulsed by agony. Rolling her livid eye- balls toward the terrified maid, she struggled to speak; but her tongue at first refused its office. At last, with a great effort, she said, faintly, "Oh! leave me not, dear maiden; for the love of Heaven, watch one half hour by me, while I die. See the demons laughing and beckoning to us, and the owl-eyed goblins who stretch out their skinny hands toward me! But I am safe while thou art near; they dare not come nigh thee."    228      BRAZEN GATES.  Her voice, at first low, rose into a shriek as she went on.,. Then she stopped, and said, more softly, "Thy twisted wreaths bind me fast, and the spirits I once controlled have left me. They bear away my life with them. Oh, have pity! What shall I. do? What will become of my miserable soul!" Johnnie, full of compassion, advanced a little, and put her soft white hands on the damp fore- head of the dying woman. The light touch seemed to soothe, for the twitching face was more quiet; and, though trembling with affright, the maid kept her place and prayed silently. Monsters with heads of fire and eye-balls of green flame surrounded them. Toads of hideous size and venomous mouth, and lizards and, little shining snakes, crawled and hopped and glided over the prostrate witch, on whose lightest sum- mons they had been wont to wait. The air was full of smoky shadows, and the floor red with milliong of noxious insects. The foulest odors, the most horrible noises, arose on every side. Hands' without bodies snatched at the poor maid- en; feet and limbs livid and' blood-stained ap- peared in every direction; and voices shouted her name with vilest imprecations and threaten- i ings. By and by the woman spoke to Johnnie again: v  Z               4/   BRAZEN GATES.       229: * "I have been very unkind to you all; each one has suffered somewhat at my hands. I hate and detest all mankind but thee. Even when I stole thee from Egypt I could not kill thee, though thy life was the only hindrance to my success. Many a time I have stood beside thee, here in thee castle, and tried to strike thee when asleep; but my hand would not do the deed. I have ruined myself by my weakness; but now I could go with a lighter heart, if I knew thou hadst for- given me. If thou couldst kiss me, only once! No one has kissed me for twenty years-not since the night my husband died; and that was long, long ago; and I have been so miserable ever since." Johnnie's whole -soul rose up against the act; she could not, would not, do it. And yet the earnest eyes of the suppliant looked so beseech- ingly into hers, and she murmured, "For my son Almanazar's sake! He said he forgave me even as. I wronged him. Only think, I am his mother!" The maiden hesitated not long. With a strong effort, she stooped and pressed her rosy lips to the parchment-cheek of the ugly hag-so ugly,  that even the glory of her love could not soften the repulsive task; not hastily, but in kind, sim- ple fashion; and as she kissed her, she softly 'whispered, "Mother." X -   230      BRAZEN GATES. When she raised her head, a very wonderful change had- come over the prostrate figure, a moment before so hideous-with age and villany. A woman of scarpe two-score years lay on the white couch, her eyes full of loving softness, her hair, a little streaked with silver, falling in bil- lowy masses over the pillow. The horrible forms had vanished, and all the place was full of the peaceful stillness of a sum- mer sunset. "Vhere is my husband?" cried the lady, cast- ing a terrified glance about the place. "Vhat. has happened? Where is my little son Almana- zar  Oh! I remember now; my lord is dead, and all these things, were over long ago. Thou art the Lady Delight, fairy Johnnie, whom alone I could not hate, though I tried. It seems as if I had been taking a' horrible journey through barren, dreary lands, and now had awakened at home once more. And so Fhave. Thou, sweet spirit, hast brought me back, kand set my tired feet in green, sunny paths. Oh! how can I thank thee enough, my daughter?" she whis- pered, tenderly. "Thou hast saved me; thou hast brought me life and happiness. Nay, look not so fearfully upon me. Give me yon holy book; I am not afraid to touch it now. If thou hadst not kissed me, I had been dead before this; /  *   BRAZEN GA TES.   ;   231 and can the life that fell from thy sweet lips do aught to harm the giver?" It was, indeed, the truth; ;and as Johnnie gazed into the softened face of her once fearsome moth- er, so wonderfully beautiful, yet so furrowed with the marks of agony and passion, her simple, trust- , ing heart, took hold on the poor,' withered soul of the sin-sick woman, and bound it up, all wounded and bleeding as it was, and dropped healing on its fevered sores. .   CHAPTER XVIII. "Night flies away before the sun, And fear doth into transport run, And grim death into life." FOUQUE. iAERY sweet to both mother and daughter    -for so they named each other-were those hours of budding   tenderness. Long time the woman lay gathering strength alike from the yellow sunlight streaming into the room, so peacefully beautiful-beautiful for the first time in years-and Johnnie's dimpling smiles and soft caresses. At length she rose unsteadily to her feet. Lend me thine arm, child," she said. "Let us go down to the gates;- perchance I may undo some of my evil deeds this day." So, very care- fully, they twain went down the twisted stair- ways, until at length they reached the brazen barriers frowning darkly against-the sunny west- ern sky. The once-powerful sorceress leaned feebly against the shining ornaments, and, sadly smiling, /   BRAZEN GATES. ;      233 began for the last time to chant her wizard-spells. Again and again she repeated the' magic words, each time with paling cheek and still more falter- ing voice, and then she threw herself into John- nie's arms, and wept bitterly. "Alas! alas! dear maiden," she cried, "it is as I feared-my power is all gone! I can never undo the gates. We are all lost." Her tears fell like the rain. Such tears had her daughter-wept, standing in the same unblessed spot, and she had none to comfort. "There is One who will aid," quoth Johnnie, presently; "the good Jesus can help in every trouble." "I know not but He may," returned the elder woman; " but I fear to enter His presence." I do nat," said Johnnie. "He says He will be with us in seven troubles." And so, kneeling reverently, she in simple words made known her request. And now a cheery shout rang clear and loud over the great barriers. "They crumble-! they fall!" cried Alrnanazar. Prince Snowflake-flew to the struggle. A few brave strokes-a fearful crash-the immense towering gates drop from their severed hinges, and Almanazar darts over the ruins to snatch his long-parted Delight to his heart.   234   i  BRAZEN GATES. A moment of ecstasy, and then the maiden, mindful of the pallid, trembling woman, who stood, with downcast head, a sorrowful spectator of the general joy, whispered, lying still in her lover's arms, "Almanazar, I think our mother waits to give us her blessing." With reverent mien the two fair children bowed before their once implacable foe, and she humbly and joyfully blessed bthem, laying her trembling hands on their young heads; and then, with her son's strong arm about her, and her beloved daughter by her side, she entered the castle-hall. Thither hastened Davie and her stalwart lover, and, with kindly greeting to their hostess, took their places at the well-filled board. Very merry was the meal, while the young knights recounted their exploits, and each, found his reward at last in his lady's smiles.* The mother nestled close by Johnnie's* side,' and, though the mirth was high, and each strove to blot out the memories that saddened her, she only thanked their kindness by her gentle cour- tesy, and turned to find comfort in the joyous little maiden's touch, and rest in her soft caresses. "Rememberest thou not," she said at last', ' how long ago ye two young heroes stood in this castle-hall; and heard me tell the story of my / - -    BRAZEN GATES.       235 life? I would fain put an end to that direful tale. Methinks if the hideous, memelentos were but destroyed, I could" bury it forever out of sight, and thus forget the mournful tragedy." "Meanest thou the drinking-cups?." quoth Johnnie, with sudden eagerness. The lady nodded gravely, as she answered, "Even so, child." "That thou canst never do,"' returned the maid, with answering gravity. "The thing is altogether impossible." "Why so?  What will prevent?" cried the mother, with agitated face. ".Because I long ago accomplished the matter myself. When I, liking the strange device, strove to make them cups to hold my water-lilies from the moat, the poor darlings withered quite away in the poisonous embrace. So, as the beakers were plainly of no use, I burned them up. Truly the blaze they made was bright;' and I had bad dreams over them for a week."  "'There, mother! thou seest -what a terrible thing it is to shut up a simple-hearted maiden among such wonderful witch-gear!" said Alma- nazar, laughing. 6 She makes but short work of it.  She he addressed kissed the blushing girl fond-  ly, saying, "-It is only one more deed to thank   236       BRAZEN   GA TES thee for. No fitter end could have been putt'to the accursed things."' Then the company made still more merry; and Davie, mindful of her lover's words out in the garden, took a lute and sang in joyous guise this little riddle: "There is a golden thread that binds Two blooming flowers together; There is a cord that lightly winds Two white-fleeced sheep in tether; There is a slender chain that will Not rust in stormy weather; The selfsame silken ribbon decks Two birds of gayest feather; There is a vine whose purple blooms True lovers often gather." Those listening gave the answer with pretty blushes; and he, who cared most for the gentle singer, protested that her honeyed accents were the thing next sweetest to the plant she warbled of, the blossom-decked vine of Matrimony. Even while he spoke, there came two guests into the banquet-room. The knight bore a golden trumpet as the crest of his closed visor, and leaning on his. arm was a stately dame wearing a scarlet chrysanthemmn spray at her snowy throat. At the sight of the strangers, Davie's knight /                   .   BRAZEN^ GATES.      237 grew pale as his native snows, and, standing up, buckled on his flashing sword, and prepared to depart. "Thou seest it is no use to hope, my darling," he said to his weeping bride. "Iieaven will not let me forget. I can never rest at ease with thee, when yonder hideous spectre haunts my footsteps. See, he nods, and clashes his arms. Even so shone his glittering mail on that fatal day at Brierie, when I, foully slew him. I must away quickly, lest his presence curse thee as well as me." But he of the golden trumpet was not so mind- ed, and he stretched out his hand to the shudder- ing prince, who drew back in affright. "What!" said a hollow voice, "having mur- dered me, wilt thou not grant me even a hand- shake with my skeleton? - Well, mayhap thy lady here will give me a kiss . " "Be off!" cried Snowflake, blushing as scarlet with anger as he had been pale with fear. "If thou wert Death himself, instead of one of his meanest subjects, I would make thee pay for this insult." He strode forward to execute his word; but Davie, rising, said courageously, "I will gladly grant thy will, most dread visitor, if thou wilt leave my lord in peace forever after. I fear thee not." "Thou wilt do nothing of the kind," quoth she   238      BRA ZEAN GATES. of the scarlet blossom. "I will allow no such mad performances." But she spoke too late; the terrible stranger advanced, as if to receive the salute, and in a moment the Ice-Princej by 'a well-aimed blow, stretched him senseless on the ground. The pale mother gave a shriek of agony at this; but his dame, as she knelt beside him, said indignantly, "Thou hast thy right de- serts. I blush for thy unknightly deeds." Then, when she undid his casque, she disclosed no worse spectre than the face of Sir Raoul de Tecoma, albeit he was something .pale from his sudden fall. "Ha! I forgot all about thee!" cried Alma- nazar. -"How camest thou here?  I left thee too sick to stir from the tent." "Yea; and if thou hadst had the ordering of affairs, I might have been there now," returned Sir Raoul, arising with some difficulty to his feet, for his opponent's blow had been no light one. "I might have burst my trumpet striving to make thee hear, and got no answer." Now was it his host's turn to blush. "Forgive me," said he. "I crave thy pardon; but, indeed, my heart was elsewhere." G - "Yes, yes," returned the other; "doubtless I did quite as well without thee. When the gates fell, all my sickness seemed to leave me, and, /   BRAZEN GA TES.      239 hastening into the castle, I met emerging from the garden this fair floweret of Brierie, my queen, my all. On my honor, I had no wish to frighten the ladies. I only judged it some fair return- for my weary marches in Egypt, to scare yon yellow-head a trifle, and also for the ugly sword-wound he gave me. He looked as white as a flag of truce when I entered." "I forgive thee, Sir Raoul," returned Prince Snowflake, "inasmuch as I have blanched thy cheeks to a similar hue. As for thy wounds, most bitterly have I repented giving them." "We have all much to forgive and be forgiv- en," said Almanazar's mother, "and I most of all. Of a truth, I suffer greatly in the memory. Even the Poppy," she added, glancing at Davie's happy face, "even the Poppy cannot forget to- day." "We will strive to teach thee the art anew," quoth that maiden. "I have this hour learned its whole secret." As Davie drew the lovely Lady Chrysanthe- mum to her side, Snowflake made request, in pretty fashion, that she would tell a tale from that store wherewith she used long ago to glad- den the ice-bound road to earth. "I shall love them better, now that I have learned that the beauty and goodness therein are the copies of my   24:0     BRAZEN GATES. love's own heart, and not the world as she would have us believe." "See, the Maples are flying!" began the maiden. "God hath given them wings. I will tell you a story of Maples. High up in the tree they hung all day long, and last night the angel came and said, 'Wherefore is it that ye turn day after day in the breeze, O ye idle eaters of sunbeams!' 'We have no wings,' answered they. 'Ye have each two beautiful pinions.' 'It is the will of God that'grants them,' said the angels. 'All who do His bidding fly toward Him on wings.' 'W We would like to have thy power,' said the Maples. ' If God had given it, ye should see how much good we would have done.' When the morning had come, every seed bore a fair brown wing, and all sprang gladly into the air; but because there was nothing in them:to draw them upward, they flew only a little way, and when they again alighted on the ground, they found the dews and sunshine, just as afore- time, in the tree. So they all settled down right peacefully, and ate and drank as before. "Another time the angels passed by, calling them, saying,' Arise, ye sleepers, for the snow comes! Do something that will speed ye home- ward to heaven.' But when they would have   BRAZEN GATES.       241 flown, their wings were gone, and presently fell the cold snow and covered themover. "In the early Spring the angels returned again; but now the lazy ones were fast prisoned in the earth, and could nevermore fly away into the blue air. Tied by the feet, they only lifted their heads a little into the sunshine." "It is hard to tell whether she means Sir Raoul, or thou, Prince Snowflake; but, at all events, ye may both take warning, for the end is :what ye are fast coming to," cried wicked John- nie. "Am  I?" quoth the yellow-haired, coolly. "Then let me put an ending to the song. When the maple-seed had grown to be a tall green tree, there came, one day, and rested in his branches a little bird, who had two white wings, quite strong enough to take her to heaven. By and by the poor solitary tree began to love the soft, tender blessing, and, though he could not fly with her, yet she did not mind his miserable good-for-noth- ingness, but stayed close beside him, and made him just as happy as she could, even wheni it was cold winter, and all her mates were gone." "And she always shall do this, so long as thou wilt permit her to be near thee," whispered Da- vie; "and surely there is no woman so happy as she is, in that she may." "   242     BRAZEN GATES. "And wilt thou not let the chattering magpie named Johnnie-come and rest also beneath thy wondrous tallness?" asked his tormentor. "Under thy teaching, madam, the maple-wings would have flown so far that none had ever been seen after," quoth Sir Raoul. "Oh, yes; when the castle gets so full of peo- ple that some must go, he will send for thee," said Almanazar. "Thou art too unkind, son," the mother spoke, softly.. "Thou shalt not torment the maid that preferred death to harming thee."- "And thou needst not reprove the youth, that the same night braved the shadowy one to save his runaway bride," quoth a hoarse voice; and the astonished company turned, to behold a fal- con alight on Johnnie's shoulder, while at the same time a silver-feathered dove nestled in Da- vie's bosom. "He may say whatever he pleases," cried John- nie. "What good would a husband be, if he always agreed with one? Thou shalt not be hushed, diear Almanazar; no one shall find fault with thee but me. And if the Snowflake be thy friend, he may even twitter to his gray-eyed mate, without further hindrance. I like thy words, however they comer" "I perceive that ye all have somewhat toQwran- /      BRAZEN GATES.       243 gle about," said the Falcon. "Children, don't gabble: geese gabble." Then came a knocking at the door, and a* black-eyed maiden entered, leaning on a grim- visaged knight, and followed by a numerous reti- nue. She sank gracefully on a seat, and handed her companion her immense purple umbrella. "It is Argarica!" cried Davie and the Chry- santhemum at once. "Whence comes she? and who does she bring with her?." "My husband," answered the dame, smilimng. "After I hurried from the garden, I searched everywhere for the yeoman Wheat-Ear, but alas! I found nothing but his yellow shoes lying in the meadow where he had lately stood so fair." Tears of real sorrow filled her black eyes; but she went on presently: "While I bemoaned his loss, I was found by this most noble knight, who offered, in the goodness of his heart, to take care of me always.  Right gladly I married him; and now my song runs in very pleasant fashion, thus." With a look of affection toward the grave. hero, she seized a lute, and sang:  "I have got me a high-born lover, Defended by well-sharpened spears; And when his dear heart ye discover, 'Tis as sweet as his aspect is fierce.   244        BRAZEN GATES. "I dote on his purple tassels- They hang o'er his armor so green; And an hundred gayly-dressed vassals May flying around him be seen. "His head of snowy whiteness I bow before with fear; Though 'tis rumored, for airy lightness, Its equal will never appear. "A thousand lazy-faced finches Dine at his table each day; They've been eating hit up by inches; Now I'm married, I'll drive them away. "We expect to live in clover, And, although I'm little and brown, I have got both a sturdy lover, - And a bed of thistle-down." In truth, she  looked  very happy, and   her prickly lord' seemed   much  enamored  of her. She, on her part, both caressed him prettily and watched him kindly. The Falcon, with    his head  askew, blinked through one eye at the singer in high disdain. Quoth he, "Every one knows that thistles are first-cousins to tailor-birds and low  serving-folk. Look at their needles!" When Davie made answer, "He is a kind- hearted man, and one of Scotland's noblest," he went on, in a voice quite loud enough for all the ' /    BRAZEN GATES.      245 company to hear: "The minx n6ed not feel so fine; any tom-tit can get a couple of mates in a long season." And when Johnnie would have spoken, "-Iold thy tongue, wench! thou art  naught but a water wag-tail thyself!" if -it had not been that Argarica minded his words not a whit, and all the guests knew his real goodness of heart, and were, moreover, too busy in each other to care much for him anyway, he would have spoiled all the miith by his cross doings. At last the feast came to an eeld, and with reluctance the lovers prepared to separate for the night. Then the mother arose, and with gentle courtesy begged that they would grant her one boon. "See," she said, ' the present moment is our own. No one knows what the morrow will bring forth. Let us have the glad marriage cele- brated to-night, under this roof, and thus make holy the place." Right joyfully did the youths and maidens yield to her wishes; and hand in hand they hast- ened to the upper end of the hall, and waited for the holy man who was to unite them to one an- other. Now the crowd of domestics parted, and slowly through their midst came the reverend Father, the same who had long ago baptized the twins, and all arranged themselves in a circle about him.   246 BiRAZEN GATES. ^ "How happy am I this night, dear little keep- : er?' qu6th Davie to the Dove. "Thou art right kind to remember me thus." "Art thou not glad to have turned aside and warmed thy Snowflake into life ." whispered the bird, softly. "1 love him quite as well as thee, my daughter. Thou hast well kept thy promise." Now the service began, and all hearts-beat with fond devotion, and all heads bowed at its close in happy prayer. When the new-made spouses looked about and embraced each other, the birds were gone; but Johnnie always declared that the Falcon shouted out, as the blessing was ended, "Good-by, my children! Father and mother bless ye! Have nothing to do with the low ways of tom-tits and sparrows; but remember that your sire was a Falcon, and act accordingly." Davie used to tell her children that the Dove cooed gently ere she followed her departing mate. "Forget not, my little ones, that thy mother was a Dove, the emblem of God's tenderness." In the first faint dawn of morning the castle was astir. Davie and her husband were setting off on their journey to the beloved forest-garden, where was to be their home. The trees had closed for the last time upon the path, and in the shady haunts of the forest the wedded pair found many noble friends, who learned to love the gen- o               *        '   BzAZETN GATES.      247 - tle Passion-Flower, not less than they valued the doughty knight, her husband.. He- for many years stood a bulwark of true Christian chivalry in those regions and a kind master to his many retainers. Even the puissant knight, Sir Otto von Trautwangen, whom he also knew and loved, and whom a sweet German singer long ago told us of, was not more renowned than he for his mighty deeds.  Once in the year-and this was when; the sum- mer- was green-would Johpnie and her lover wander back to the garden-nest; and Almanazar often said that the happiest gift he ever made was given when he bestowed his mother's garden- seeds on the blue-eyed brook-fairy who caught his boyish fancy. Then the pale, sorrowful woman, who ever followed the blithe matron round with wistful, tender eyes, and leaned upon her with daily-increasing affection, used to smile at her loving children, and, so smiling, forgot to sigh. On the'morning of Davie's departure the other guests of the castle bade their hostess farewell. The Thistle Knight and black-eyed Argarica were hastening home to Scotland, there to 'take up their abode; and their many descendants and great fame tell how high a place they held among the gentry there.  Sir Raoul de Tecoma had bidden all these   248      BRAZEN GATES. adieu. The sumpter mules were loaded, the pal- freys saddled, waiting to carry him to Brierie, there to dwell with the Lady Chrysalthema in perfect bliss. But he still hesitated. At last, leaving his bride already mounted on her pranc- ing steed, he hastened to the garden. Pausing a moment where, a few hours before, had stood the aged Yew supporting the blooming Passion-Yine, he sought in every direction for some wished-for object. At last .he spied her, the little Gentian, sorrowfully weeping ell alone, deserted by the merry-flowers. "Ah, I have found thee!" he said, very softly. "Weep not so sore, blue-eyed mourner; I bring thee comfort. Once, as I wan- dered in, Switzerland, I beheld the mighty Gla- cier sitting lonely in his icy palace. Calling to me as I stood afar off, he charged me to bear his greeting to the little heaven-eyed maiden dwell- ing tearfully behind the Brazen Gates; and he bade me say to her, that for her sake he takes no other wife, but grieves much her absence, and ever wears a blue ribbon-her own true color- upon his breast." The kind-hearted knight hastened back to his waiting bride, who wondered at his absence. But all summer long the Gentian awoke each morn- ing with a smile. /    --0 NEW BOGOSa                - Recently Published by G. W. CARLETON & CO., New York, Madison Square, Fifth Avenue and Broadway. N B.-TmB PUBLISHEIS, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send aly of the following Books by mail, POSTAGE FREE, to any part of the United States. This convenient and very safe mode may be adopted when the neighbor- ing Booksellers are not supplied with the desired work. lMarion Harland. ALONE.-   . .  A novel    .  I2mo. clothb $I.50 HDDEN PATH.- .    do.   . . .    do.  $1.50 MOSS SIDE.-  .    do   . .     do.  $1 .5 NEMESIS.-   .    do.   .  .    do.  $1.50 MRIAM.-   .         do. . .  do.  $50 AT LAST.--  .       udo. ust Publishted. do. $1.50 HELEN GARDNER.-   do.   .  .    do.  $1.50 SUNNYBAN.--  .   do.   .  .    do.  $1.50 HUSBANDS AND HOMES.- do.   .  .    do.  $I.50 RUBY'S HUSBAND.-   do.   .  .    do.  $1.50 PHEME'S TEMPTATION.- do.    .    do.  $It.5P * THE EMPTY HEART.--  do.   .  .    do.  $I.50 lM[iss Mloch, JOHN HALIFAX.-A novel. With illustration. i2mo. cloth, $ I.75 A LIFE FOR A LIFE.  .    do.     do.   $1.75 Charlotte Bronte (Cnurrer BelD. JANs EYREg.-A novel. With illustration. I2mo. cloth, $1.75 THE PROFESSOR.-do.   .  do.   .   do.  $i.75 BIIILEY.-  . do.   .  do.   .   do.  $I.75, VILLETTE.- . do.   .  do.   .   do.  $1.75 Hand-Books of Society. THE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY;- nice points of taste, good tian- ners, and the art of making oneself agreeable. Iz1mo. $I.75 THE ART OPI CONVERSATION.-A sensible work, for every one who wishes to be an agreeable talker or listener. 12mo. $t.50o ARTS OF WRITING, READING; AND SPEAKING.-Ani excellent book for self-instruction and improvement. i2mo. clo., $r.50 A NEW DIAMOND EDITION of the above three popular books.- Small size, elegantly bound, and put in a box. - $3.00 Mrns. A. P. Hill. MRS. TULT'S NEW CGOKEPR BOOK, and receipts' 12mo. cloth. $2 oa    i    ZtlIST OF BOOKS PURPrFnfn Br ;-- .   Mary J. Hnolmes. '    t'LENS RIVERS.-   .  . A novel. i2mo. cloth, $I 5C DARKNESS AND DAYIGHT.-- .  do.  .  do. .t $.5 *zBMEST AND SUNSHNE.-  .  do.  .  do. .  $ [.50 MARIAN GREY.-  .  .  .  do.  .  do. MEADOW BROOK.--   .     do.  .  do.   ;l., ENGLISH ORPHANS.-    .  do.  .  do.   $1.50 DORA DEANE.-         do. .   do. do. $ 50 COUSIN MAUDE.--   .  .  do.  .  do. .   .50 HOMESTEAD ON THE MT T.snD-   do.    do. . .  50 HUGH WORTHNGTON,-    .  do.  .  do. .  $ .5 THE CAMERON PRIDE.- .  .  do.    do.   $1.50 ROSE*MATHEIL-   .   .  do.    do.   $I 50 Mt'if1sLYN'S MSTAK.- . .  do.    do.   $1.50 ImTLRANK-- .  .  .  7ust published. do. .  $I. O Augusta J. Evans. BEULAH.--  .  .    . A novel. I2mo. cloth, $1.75 MACARIA-  .         do.  .  do.   $1.75 ST. ELMO.- .  .  .  .  do.  .  do. .  $2.oo VASHTI.-  .   .  .   do.  .  do. .  $2.00 INEZ.--  .    .  .  dodo. .     do. . 75 Robert Dale Owen. HlE DEBATABLE LAND. I2mo. cloth.   .  .  . $2.00 -- The Crusoe Library. ROBINSON CRUSOE.-A handsome illus. edition. I2mo. Sr.5o SWISS FAMLY ROBINSON.-  do  .  .    do. $1.50 THE ARARTAt NIGHTS.--   do  .    .  do. $i o5 Captain Mayne Reid.-Illustrated. THE SCALP HUNTERS.--          I2mo. do., $1.50 THE WAR TRAIL.-   .   Fr  edo.       $1.50 THE HUNTER'S FEAST.- .           do. $1.5 THE TIGER HUNTER.- .  J         do. $1.50 OSCEOLA, THE SEMNOLE.--          do  $.5 THE QUADROON.-   .      S     do. $I.50 RANGERS AND REGULATORS.--          do. $1.50 THE WlITjE GAUNTLET.-  J         do. $I.50o WILD LIFE.-   . ' - .           do. $1.50 THE HEADLESS HORSEMAN.-  Pioneer S    do.  $1.50 LOST LENORE.-- .  .            do. $1.50 THE WOOD RANGERS.- .            do. $1.50 THE WHTE CHEF.-  .            do. $1 .5 THBE WILID BUNTRES.-  .          do. $I,50 THE MAROON.   -  .   Wild Forest Series do. $ THE RIFE RANGERS  .  J .       do;  $I.55   O. W. CARLETON 0d CO., NtEW YOAI.   I Comic Booki--Illustrated, ARTEMUS WARD, His Book.-Letters, etc. 12mo. cl., $1.50 DO.   His- Travels-Mormons, etc.  do.  $1.50 DO.   In Lcndon.--Punch Letters.  do.  $1.50 DO.   His Panorama and Lecture.  do.  $1.50 DO.   Sandwiches for Railroad. .  .... ... JOSH BiLLINGS ON ICE, and other things.- do.  $1.50 DO.   His Book of Proverbs, etc.  do.  $1.50 DO.   Farmer's Allmanax.  .  .  .25 FANNY FERN.-Folly as it Flies.. .  .  do.  $1.50 no.   Gingersnaps   .  .  . do.  $.5 VERDANT GREEN.--A racy English college story. do. $1.50 MILES O'REILLY.-His Book of Adventures.  do.  $I.52 ORPHEUS 0. KERR.-Kerr Papers, 4 vols. in one. do. $2.oo DO.    Avery Glibun. A novel.   .  . $2.00 DO.    The Cloven Foot. do.   do.  $1.50 BALLAD OF LORD BATEMAN.-Illustrated by Cruikshank. .25 A. S. Roe's Works. A LONG LOOK AHEAD.-  A novel.  .   I2mo. cloth, $1.50 TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED.- do. . .   do.   $I.50 TIME AND TIDE.--    do.    d. do.50 I'VE BEEN THNKING.-   do .  .   do.    50 TIlE STAR AND THE CLOUD.-- do. . .  do.   $1.50 TRUE TO THE LAST.-   . do .  .   do.    . HOW COULD HE HELP IT?- do.      do.   $1.50 "KE AND UNLIKE.--o. .         do. .$1.50 "OOKING AROUND.-     do .  .   do.   $1.50 WOMAN OUR ANGEL.     do.      do.   $1.50 THE OLOUD ON THE HEART.- do. . .   do.50 RESOLUTION.-       do       do.   1.50 Joseph Rodlman Drake. TsE CULPRIT PAY.-A faery poem, with ioo illustrations. $2.00 DO.    Superbly bound in turkey morocco. $5.00 "Brick -- Pomeroy. SENSE.-An illustrated Vol. of fireside musings. 12mo. cl., $1.50 NONSENSE.-  do.  do. comic sketches.  do.  $1.50 OUR SATURDAY NIGHTS. do. pathos and sentiment. $I.5 BRICK DUST.-Comic sketches.   .  . . .    5 GOLD DUST.-Fireside musings. . .  .  .  . $ John Elten Cooke. FAIRFAX.-  A brilliant new novel.  I2mo. cloth; $I.50 HLT TO BILT.---   do.  .    .  do.  $1.50 HAMMER AND RAPIER.- do.  .  .     do.  $1.50 OUT OF TfE:' FOAM.- do. Just published. do.  $ 5c o   6     G. W. CARLETON & CO., NEW YOFtK. Victor Hugo. "ES MSERABLES.--The celebrated novel, 8vo. cloth. $2.50 u4    Two voL edition, fine paper, do. - 5.00 ;r "In the Spanish language,    do. - 5.00 Algernon Charles Swinburne. T TS rr VNRT9, AND OTHER POEMS.-Elegant new ed. - $I. 50 FRENCH LOVE-SONGS.-By the best French Authors. - 1.50 Author ',New Gospel of Peace." THE CHRONICLES OF GOTHAM.-A rich modern satire. - $ .25 TIEE FALL OF MAN.-A satire on the Darwin Theory. - .50 Julie P. Smith. WIDOW GOLDSMTH'S DAUGHTER.-A novel. 12mo. cloth. $I.75 CHRIS AND OTHO.-        do.    do. - 1.75 THE WIDOWER.-         do.    do. - 1.75 THE MkARRIED BELLE.-      do.  (in press).- . I75 Iansfield T. Walworth. WARWICK.-A new novel. -   -   - 12mo. cloth. $I. 75 "ULU.-     do.   -   -   -   do.   1.75 HOTSPUR.-   do.   -   -   -   do.  -  . 75 STORMOLFf.-- do.   -   -   -   do.   - .75 'DELA'PLAINE.- do.  Just Published.  do.  - I. 75 Richard B. Kilnball. WAS HE SUCCESSFUL .?-- A novel.  - 12mo. cloth. $1.75 UNDERCURRENTS.-     do.    -   do.  - I . 75 SAINT LEGER. -     do.    -   do.  - 1.75 * ROMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE. do.   -   d1.75 IN THE TROPICS.-     do.    -   do.  - 1.75 HENRY POWERS, Banker.-  do.    -  i do.  - I.75 TO-DAY.-         do.    -   do.  - '*75 M1. Michelet's Remarklable Works. "OVE (L'AMOUR).-Translated from the French. 12mo. cl. $I . 0 WOMAN (LA FEMME).-    do.    -   do.  - 1.50 Ernest Renan. THE LIFE OF JESUS.-Trans'ted from the French. lQmo. cl. $i . 75 "VES OF THE APOSTLES.-   do,     do. - I -75 THE LIlFE OF SAINT PAUL--  do.     do. - 1.75 THE BIBLE IN INDIA--     do.   of Joccoliot. 2.00 Popular Italian Novels. DOCTOR ANTONIO.-A love story. ByRuffini. 12nmo. cl. $1i75 BEATRICE CENCI.-By Guerrazzi with Portrait. do. I. 75 Geo. W. Carleton. OUR ARTIST IN CUBA. --With 50 comic illustrations. - $1.50 OUR ARTIST IN PERU.--  do.    do. .   - 1.50 OUR ARTIST IN AFRICA.-(In press). do.    - 1.50      
         
       
   
