
    ----CITATION----
        Patterson, John.. Charles Hopewell, or, Society As It Is and As It Should Be .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7393
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Charles Hopewell, or, Society as it is and as it should be 
            
               jaCARLS HPEWLL
.
( _ .

CHARLES H OPEWELL;
SOCIETYKA       IT IS

AND
AS IT SHOULD BE.

A

BY JOHN PATTERSON.
-------------------------------------L--------'---y,

CINCINNATI:
LONGLEY &amp; BROTHER, PUBLISHERS
1691 WALNUT STREET,
1853.

. 1o

.4
r
1
% ? v
"   ^,'d
.
1'   s
t; ,.w?
.)
i    i
i4 "
1
1
.2 _    1-#
.;
4f
a  x *;
S .
r              ' +
i  'ta
_ 7 ,a
va?: 7
S
_    3 '   ',
r               ti;
' ,R3t
r;
_   y
.a
i.b

a
fi             y
.5
'                    a      tv
y.
L4      t. X a! S     S .Td_ a


L  2 . .2,
pNRD Cogt
MZAI 161939

TO

Entered According to Act of Congress, in the year 1853,
BY JOHN PATTERSON,
in the Clerk's office of the District Court of Ohio.

ALL WHO BISE IN THEIR ASPIRATIONS
ABOVE
THE GENERAL SPIRIT OF EXIST         G SOO  TY,

THIS LITTLE VOLUME
FRATERNALLY INSCRIBEDi
BY
'THE AUTHOR4

*

LrLor   t Baorma, Printers, Cincinnati, 0.

_*

1

-             "        i
_._              __                         .


ERRATA.
It was not convenient for the author to see the proof-sheets
while the work was passing through the press ; hence a few
errors will be observed, as follows :_-
Page 11, line 18 from top, for " clean head," read clear head.
Page 37, line 2 from top, for "appointment law," read ap-
portionment law,
Page 61, line 9 from bottom, for "bad order," read bad odor.
Page 61, line 3 from bottom, for " impudent," read imprudent.
Page 62, line . from bottom, for "completion," read com-
p   ,on.
Page    line   om top, for "impudence," read imprudence.
Page 7V lire 8 from bottom, for " others," read theirs.
Page 79, line 10 from bottom, for "vigorously," read rigorously.
Page 89, line 12 from bottom, for "immortality," read immu-
tability.
Page 9,line 3 from top, for "anywhere else," read everywhere
else.
Page 145, line 4 from top, for " Ceresio," read Ceresco.
P        line 1 from top, for "changes," read chances.'.. .
P       , line 2 from top, for "forgets," read forfeits.
Page 4, ligOe7rom bottom, for "recognition,"read reorgan-.
ization.
Page 176, linie 5 from bottom, for "depravity," read disparity.
Page 190, line 11 from top, for "qualification," read gratifica-
tion.
Page 217, line 13 from bottom, for "light profits," read like
profits.
Other errors occur, less likely to mislead, aid on this ac-
count are omitted.

PREFACE.

If any one should open this book with the expec-
tation of finding it. a novel, he. will simply be dis-
appointed; I might regret such disappointment, but
I cannot' regret that this is not a novel, in the idea
which that word-conveys to the popular understand-
ing, There is but one consideration in view of which
I could admit such a designation: The book contains
some novel things ;-though nog the less true, as I
believe, for their novelty.
If the regular novel-makers----those who construct
from an esthetic impulse, without regard to moral
tendencies,-should laugh at my plot an#
agement, they are at prfect liberty to
should have ample satisfaction of all se1nt
that I have never found time to read toh
or three of their works. What litle approaches 4 e
dramatic in this book, came, in the first place, unnd
den and unlooked for; butwhen it came, itwas web.
  corned, and more followed by design. It has served
my purpose, and that is all .I could wish.  J. P.
Greenville, Dark Co., o.
APRIL, 1853.

4

,'                                                             r        ,
,,, y                                                       r             t  _       ,  -  -'i
'     .  i9    .w                          ..,  r.          .              -          .a   fit.    .  ."R..'


C 0 2T EM        .
C~H .2 . THE PRoFES8IONS,   .

"   2. CHARLES' POLITICS,  .    .
"s3. MARY AND THE PREACHER,     .   .
"t4. MARY AND THE SCHOOLS,
"   5. CHARLES AND THE STRANGER,   .
"t6. THE RELATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL'S FUTURE
TO HIS PRESENT,  .   .   .   .
"t7. THE CONTRAST,    .    .
"t8. INFLUENCE OF CIRCUMSTANCES OVER THE
INDIVIDUAL, .   .   .
9. CAPITAL AND INTEREST MATHEMATICALLY
CONSIDERED,  .   .   ..
10. CHARLES CONSIDERS THIS PLAN,
11. CAPITAL AND LABOR IN ASSOCIATION,
THE FORMULA OF PARAMOUNT JUSTICE,
3. THE PROPERTY INSTINCT,  .   .
4. THE DISPOSITION OF MEMBERS' CAPITAL,
i. VARIOUS DETAILS OF TRANSITION POLICY,
16. FLAGELLATIONS,   .   .
4 17. MARY AND HER AUNT RUTH,
18. CHARLES AND THE WARRENITE,
19. THE PROMISES OF ASSOCIATION,
"920. CHARLES' MISSION.-THE PURPOSE, .

SOCIETY

PAGE 7.

34.
43.
65.
82.
86.
97.

110.

131.
141..
148.
166.
185.
208.
228.
238.
253.
266.
272.
284.

AS IT IS AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

CHAPTER I.
THE PROFESSIONS.

CHARLES HOPEWELL and his sister MARYa were both
young; the one about twenty-two, the other twenty.
They were orphan children, and having been left
with a small legacy, were compelled,  rely upon
their own energies for the means of l. They had
the wide world before them, and a hng future i
prospect, but with true hearts and able hands, tg
did not hesitate to enter the arena of industrial strif.
But what should be the vocation, was the inquiry
and at this particular moment the chief concern of
each.
Charles had a strong inclination to enter the
Medical Profession, but lest he might decide too
hastily, he thought proper to consult an eminent
M. D., of, whom he knew much by reputation, and
in whose heart and head he had much confidence.
He accordingly sat down and wrote as follows:
DR. M- D--
DEAR SIR:-Being left at an early age to rely upon
my own resources for a livelihood, and wishing to select a
profession in which I may be able to provide well for
myself, and do good to others, I have thought fit to
appeal to you. What education I have, has been acquired
chiefly by my own unaided endeavors ; though Ihave

,r


8                 SOCIETY                            AS IT IS

been for brief periods at different English and Classical
schools, and had occasion there to measure intellectual
arms with pupils from various parts of the country, and
have had no reason to he dissatisfied with the abilities
nature has given me. With what knowledge I have of
Latin and the Sciences, I think that I could master Medi-
cine without any difficulty, and might with that energy
and perseverance which I have made it a point to culti-
vate, be able to make myself successful and useful. If
you will be so kind as to inform me at your earliest con-
veiience, what the inducements are to enter upon the
study of Medicine, I shall be greatly obliged to you for
the favor.

Yours truly,

CHARLES HOPEWELL.

The Doctor, who had long since devoted his life to
the service of humanity, and allowed no occasion of
doing good to pass unimproved, replied as follows:
Mr DEAR CHARLES :-I am very glad to see the interest
you take in so necessary a preliminary as that of secur-
ing the elements of future independence. This must be
done by every young man without fortune, who has the
true spirit of manhood within him and wishes to maintain
it. I would have you be a true man, and therefore can-
not advise you to enter the temple of Esculapius. The
god is about to withdraw, and the responses must soon
cease, for a better divinity is manifest. Paracelsus and
all who follow him cannot save the altar nor prevent the
dilapidation of the walls. And when the god is com-
manded hence, and the temple has fallen, there will be no
more need for priests. I once did the honors of the altar,
but have laid aside the robes, and now do homage to none
but the everlasting Father and those who are in him.
If your only purpose in life was to secure a livelihood
you could doubtless 'ucceed, for the worshipers have not
given up their idolatry. You might build up a fortune
and a name, and the world might call you honorable, but
for all this you would hardly be useful. This condition
you specify, and I am bound to give it due weight in the
consideration of your inquiry.

Our world is one of ,progress_ Old-.abuses- must be
done away, and the advancing conditions establiied..-
This work is for man to do, as the =agent ofocorrecttpinci,
pies and superior power.- H  should qualify hitiself for
the discharge ,of his duty, -and devote all-his energies d
thereto. Usefulness should he the great aim of life, for
in making -ourselves useful we seek our own- elevation
and promote our own happiness. And whether the. pro.
fession-of Medicine is one in-the-regular practice of whiehe-
much good.may be done fortour fellow'"man, and a t the
same time the best impulses of ou being cultivated and
gratified, you will be better -enabled to decides'when I
shall  have given an account of my experience.
I graduated with honor at oneof the best Ndfieal Odl
leges in the.United States, in the spring of 18, ad th0
following summer commenced practice inthe city i which
I now reside. .The stats were propitious, and: I soon had
plenty of- friends. and patients. I was educated in Alfoi
pathy according. to the straightest sect, and 1.practiced as
conscientiously - and sud essfully as my brethren. - The
people amongst who n I labored were as intelligent as any
in the city, but with all- their knowledge, and wisdo iymW
wealth, and civilization, they -knew little or Idthing6-
the laws of health. These were often violated
followed, and -here was my harvest, My suee    49
pended upon the, misfortunes of others, and this o
tion grieved me.  Why should I not   rn    t
fellow man, and with him rejoice? -But I could  $i'r
ways do so. My nature was hu man, and whenn y hrot=f
er suffered I pitied him; but his. loss was mai , an4:i
was not blind. I sought for refuge, and arsold mself
thus:   The people will get' sick,- =and sinoe thMis
inevitable, it is but right that they should have-help eu',
as IL consider myself duly qualified- to administer aid, why
shedd I reproach myself for-doing so.? -This I knew was'
balm to the fraternity, but the vision in my own case .a1  -
not so easily healed. Why not ,enlighten
thought I, so that the laws4of life may. be obed
the greatest 'measure of -health;possiblesee
But that wquld rob me oftif e eldyinent I
2

I

AND AS ' IT ~-SHOULD flE.


the conflict between duty and interest. It was my duty,-
as one acquainted with the subject, to teach my -friends-
the organic laws, and insist upon, their observance ; but.
it was my interest as a member of the profession, to have
the people as ignorant as possible of - these laws, since
violation on their part brought ease and comfort to me.
Let right prevail, thought I, and the conscience be purged.
I went to work in a heroic way, gave lectures to the
adults, introduced popular Physiology into the' schools,
and now that nearly twenty years have elapsed, ham
almost wholly out of employment as a-physician. The
apothecary- gets no patronage from me, and I have a
great consolation in reflecting that I no longer transfer
poisonous drugs from his drawers and jars to the stom-"
aches of my friends. Rather let the craft of the druggist
fail and the sound of the pestle and mortar -be heard no
more, than that I should mineralize the habitation of the'
soul, and compound disease and suffering for my friends
and their offspring.
Whilst using drugs in my practice, I. was often pained
to witness their ruinous effects upon some of my patients,
through the neglect of nurses. The long list of mercurial
-diseases startled me. Incurable ulcers, mutilated lips,
and toothless mouths were std testimonials to the potency
of my remedies-lasting relics, to reproach me with the
dire necessities and uncertainties of my art;. but I con-
soled myself with the reflection that it was the nursing
and not the drugging. We cannot cure without the use
of such remedies, and better have trouble of this kind in
a few cases than death and horror all around.
When I commenced the diffusion of Physiological
knowledge, my own prejudices began to loosen and
were finally overcome. I could see that health did not
depend upon the use of deleterious compounds, but upon
the cultivation of the restorative energies of the system,
by perfect cleanliness and a judicious attention to diet,
exercise, and recreation. I regulated. the habits of my
own family by these principles, recommended them -to
others, and now there is not a family within the boundary
of my former practice but follows my example 'in this

10

SOCIETY AS IT IS

t?
D
s
* S
S#
1
_ /
s}
a
_
a
.g
m
,.
:i
:;
_ LY
Y
j3
"Y
f
yF
fL
}
1
.4
v
l

AND AS IT -SHQUL DXR.

11

respect more scruspulotsly than my prescriptions formerly.
Buft with-all our care there is now and then a broken limb,
and with all our study and investigation Wei do not fully
understand the conditions upon which perfect health
depends, and it often happens that heedlessness or the
necessities of isolation and antagonism in society , prevent
us from doing- as well as we ktio w how, s6 that the pen--
aly sonetines corps, and. then )my advice is sought for,
and services- needed; but, these 'cases ire not frequent,
and if I demanded the usual fee, the income thus-6btained
would not be adequate to my support. Bat I charge
nothing, and have the proud consolatioin of depending upon
the labor of 'my own hands for'the-'bre'ad -eat. I hae
educated 'my family -to industry, and now we are as inde-
pendent as it is possible to be under the false conditions o
existing society.
If you were my son, I would wish you  o better forb
tune- than a pure heart, a cleanwhead-' strong-hands and a
good occupation, by which to earn an independent ieli-
hood. Cultivate first of all' the innate ppwer to do-geod;
then seek to place yourself in a situation which gaaran ti
the freedom to speak and act as your judgment dietatps-e
but study no profession.
Yours for humanity,
Charles was astonished, and    somewhat dap-
pointed. The facts - and considerations herein.  -
sented were novel to the inquirer, and gave a ew
direction to his thoughts. The epistle 'was  -  crd
for Charles to- think by. The theme was
for it came home to fhis own bosom hands
and he reflected upon the probable condition otfer
professions in the same relations. Thedata he had
received and the analogies he was now enabled to
trace, satisfied his mund pretty 'well -as to what
might be the nature of some of the theirr vocatjions
of Ife, but as he wishd- to Jearn of those whocould
speak from experience, he addressed amnotef'Mis uny
to afetired member of the :ba4 -     as  imil


12              SOoIETY AS IT IS

the one formerly sent to his friend the Doctor, but it
urged more strongly the conditions of usefulness a'nd
moral purpose.
Ma. Ca&amp;as HoPEWELL :
DEAR S&amp;R-Your note of inquiry has been received,
and I shall proceed forthwith to reply. If you desire to
cultivate the better feelings of humanity and make your",
self really useful, you had better let the bar alone. It is
a poor place for the cultivation of anything but intellect,.
wit, and cunning. Here and there we find an intellectual,
and moral prodigy who oversteps his fellows, stands head
and shoulders above the filth which covers them, and is
a. man in spite of his profession; but it would be utterly
impossible for the great herd of legal aspirants to earn
even a common reputation and enough to eat, and at the
same time elevate and beautify the moral man. Success
depends upon the power uncrupulously exercised of mak-
ing a strong case out of such material as can be had, so
that what is deficient in material must be made up in
skilful workmanship. Even when the advocate knows
that success in any particular case would be the perver--
sion of justice, yet his professional duty as he interprets it,
his interest as an advocate, and his pride, all conspire to
summon his energies against his conscience as a man.
His professional relations are unnatural and vicious, inas-
much as their tendency is to tempt him into paths for-
bidden by strict integrity. There are few, who have
practiced long at the bar, in whom the glory of victory
has not more potency than the sense of right. Present
such sentiments as these to the bar of any court in your
State, and you would be stared into a pump-stock or
broadly laughed at. Such moral niceties are not dis-
criminated by such as habitually look into the niceties of
the law; and herein is to be- found a witness to the moral
obtuseness of which I speak.
The lawyer lives upon the squabbles of his clients and
t le clashing of the basest passions of undeveloped human-
it v, and it is consequently his professional interest to
foster the worst perversions of our common nature. Just

so far as he promotes true education does-he dry up the
sources of his vast patronage and its emolnmnets.
But more than this, the greater portion ofd this business
arias from the. unnatural relations which men sustain
toward each, other. If isolated and antagonistic interests
did not exist, and the overreaching and animosity which
flow from them, gentlemen of the bar would -have but
little to do. Hence it is professionally their interest-not
only to have 'men continue in ignorance and crime, butt
also in unnatural, antagonistic, and consequently vicious
relations to ,each other.
The lawyer may be a very good man,.but if he is -he
will be sure to feel that his profession- is- not a very good
one, and if he does not occupy its higher fields of labor,
will be altogether likely to abandon it. So, Charles, as
you have "thrown physic to the dogs," I would advise
you-to do the same with the Law.
Yours, &amp;c.;         L. L. D--..
Charles was prepared for some of this, but the idea
of isolation and antagonism in society, and Nhe, bare
presumption that the social relations might be other
wise, made altogether quite a puzzle. But'as thbink-
ing was a necessity with Charles, 'he determined go
profit by everything. he could see and hear., He
looked to the Sacred Desk, and saw in the, popular
spirit that. there, if anywhere, a man might enter
with energy into the discharge of his -professi nal
duties, and ennoble himself in the act. But CharIes
had learned by experience not to' be too sangiige,
and besides, he had a spirit of his own and wheti he
relied upon this, he saw by a pretty clear intuition
that all is not sacred that wears the romskof holiness
before men, and that iiasmuci as the approved faith
of -the, times, with its broad phylactei ies, ,was onjce
the badge Qf hypocrisy, itlmight be so now. le
wrote, accordinglyto one with the title fReveren4,
and gave still, more force to that part of his letter
which had reference to high' rnoralpnarpose adhe

AND - AS --IT SHOULD, -3E.


14               socIm-Y AS IT is

doing of good.    Charles read 'the answer with
some avidity.
MY DEAR CHARLES :-By nature, as well as by habit, I
feel interested in the future of all young persons, and
especially of such as are interested in' their own.
I am now engaged in lecturing and wrtiing for the press,
and doing good in other of the manifold ways wherein
the work of love may be done. I have no fortune, never
had the art of acquiring money, get but little now, have
to use the greatest economy, and am often compelled to
suspend my moral' labors, and resort, for the' means of
physical life, to the trade I luckily learned before enter-
ing upon the study of Theology. By this means I replen-
ish my resources, and, with the aid which friends who
love reform are so kind as to furnish me, I have enough
to sustain me for awhile in renewed efforts for human
good.
As you know, I was once' a preacher, and why I am
not now you will know best when you have heard
my story.
Having been duly "called and quallified," as I sup-
posed, and thoroughly doctrinated as I knew, into the
mysteries and merits of Orthodoxy, I entered upon the
ministry. I did as my brethren, who did everything right;
and as long as I urged faith rather than works, dOettines
rather than practice, I was thought to be an excellent
preacher. But this could not last always ; and I saw
with pain that my labors were doing no good. Others
before me had done as I was doing ; the whole field of
doctrinal discussion had been traversed again and again,
and even if I did sometimes invest my theme with an
attractive freshness, the influence was little more than
asthetic, and my people went home as well satisfied with
habitual inequity as ever. I became dissatisfied with this
dull, profitless, and hopeless routine of church-exercises,
and I felt that too much of it was solemn' mockery. I-I
wanted to see the fruits of my labors, and to gather in the
vintage; but the field 'gave no more evidence of good culb
tivation and an abundant harvest, after I had worked for
months, than it did when I began.

Those who. I served were worldly in every seie of
the- -term. There was little or no spirituality  anidagst
them, although Christian after the approved fashion of
the time and place. It seemed that I was to work out
their salvation; for them, while they would..work out the
means of present existence for, me and their own way to
wealth and honor. This will never 'do, thought I, and
the next Sunday I made an assault upon the worship of
Mammon, and did not spare the idolaters. There was
some squirming, but it was my first attempt in this kind
of holy warfare, and as doubtless many hoped it would be
the last, they stood it. Oracular criticisms on the bad
taste of the sermon, and -shrewd remarks, pointed ud
polished for my especial benefit, gave ample satisfaction
to those who made them, for any ,enjoyment which- my
onset may have been presumed to afford me, and both
parties retired from the field; they to-the temple, of their
idolatry, and Ito the~companionship of my'ownrrefleetions.
A few weeks. after, I .inveighed against the idolatries of
Fashion, and showed whither the god was leading his
votaries. I touched some tender sensibilities here, and
created rather a disagreeable sensation on the wrong side
of the house,--wrong so far as my own popularity, place
and salary were concerned.
I continued kat intervals to expose the abomitiatiops
which were practiced in- the Church, in the name of relig-
ion, and insisted that the followers of Christ should'exezn-
plify his-precepts. I sustained all I said by the hook which
they assumed to take as their guide, and tIhoped by such
means to revive the energies of living Christianity. But
I had mistaken the material with- while ehad to work.
My brethren nominally received the Scripttres as their
guide and -rule of-faith, and the God of the Bible as their
God, but there iwas another divinity, silent and unseen as
to the giving forth of his oracles; and-by his standard did
they regulate their own 'lives, and measure the doings of
others. They' were unwittingly the votaries of the Demon
of corrupt society
I saw  all this, and deplored. it. I mourned, welt,
prayed, and preached with all the zeal- aid-devotionfluoh

AND AS IT SfOULD BE.          1-5 -


10               SOCIETY AS IT [S

it was natural for me to summon ; but - the harvest was
a bhligh,--poisoned by the malignant atmosphere which
arose from the.gehenna of social pollution.
I studied some of the new sciences which were making
just claims upon the candid consideration of an intelligent
age, and learned much therefrom. Geology, Phrenology,
and Magnetism were particularly fruitful in the elements
of useful knowledge, and I was delighted with the addi-
tional power which their principles gave me to dispel the
obscurities of the Bible. Geology recorded the physical
history of. the earth, and I read it with astonislument and
gratitude. I could no longer understand Moses as I had
done. Phrenology gave me an insight into the characters
of others and anunderstanding of my own, for which I
thanked the Providence manifest in the genius of Gall.
The .philosophy of mpind, and :its multifarious and imponr
taut bearigs,. threw a new light upon the whole tenor of
the Scripture, and. I used it in the illustration of the same.
Magnetism and the wanders of Clairvoyance opened up a
system o'ecorrespondencies, and revealed oapascities of the
human soul which startled me, but which I had never-
theless to admit, and apply to the illustration, of religion
an&amp; the futuye of man.
I urged, in a private way, upon sormeof my more intelli-
gent people,. the study of these- important sciences. I
gave a studied and cautious explanation of their character,
biut sme of -them refused to have anything to do with
such dispating and dangerous.innovations;- These pro-
fesesciee, they said, were inconsistent with the. Scrip-
tures and consequently false.
- A few, however; took hold, and they were truly friends,
4o. only of myself,.but of truth and humanity. But -these
were comparatively few indeed, and there was a strong
tide setting against me, not only in my congregation but
amongst -the clergy of my denomination. I was tried,
condemned and executed.. This is the, grandest event
of ay life. It wholly removed the shackles of bad associa-
tion, false doctrine, and blinding prejudices. - It.set me
free.. I am vow a disciple of Progress, and my faith and
region are themselves progressive. I can see as clearly

as I see the harmony of, truth, that the #A trineaof the
plenary ispiration. of the Scriptures is- nof *rue  :e a
delusion- of ignorance and superstition., I can see -that
society is vicious/ in the very uatu're of its eonstitution.
Individual is at war with individual; the many are set
against,.one, and -one against the many ;. and kall this
is a necessity of the relations which man sustains to man.
It can do but little good to preach tovthe individual while
his position in society; is such asto''tempt hiet into afl
kinds of forbidden paths, These soci4 relations misbo
changed,-interests must be harmonized, and then may men
realize that they aie brethren. There: will be; fewtenp-
tations to wrong; the esseptia1-tendency of society.upon
its. members will be towards truth and -'virtue i andthe
practical recognition of true Christianity hilefolow as.-
natural and legitimate result..
And now, my dear Qharles; that I was onet hounded
am now free, I should be very sorry to see ybuenchained.
If you were in the daily habit of fregenting-grogshop ar
brothel, the low associations theremv uld eontantly ber
against your upward tendencies as a being of intelleetuial
progress and religious aspiration. Just so the (Thurohrof
our times is a- low organization;socially, intellectually,
morally, spiritually; and if youenter ityou'rlliid ybu
self inexorably fettered down to the- e*eed and dogmaas.o
the- Past, and 'the customs and caorventionalities;ofthe
Present. Your reason will be chained adu;  obuest
aspirations clogged.
You will find it your professional i;.
all innovation r however truthful awhigh .        to
trench iponitheioctrines and usages to whicW
your consequence and emoluments.. Te Ch ush eould
be the cherisher. of aj truth, Whether long knownorre.
cently manifestedbut it elings-with tenaeity to Iit has
inherited, whether true "or false, and opposes with the
most undiscriminating bitterness, whatever .' of modem
origin it, suspects- as -dangerous .to its -own, interest.
Though the. Church is therepute:ed guard _of primitie
truth and the enemy of  eden :r i s    eqllyth
actual gardian ofya'tiqgted error anthe euj      4

ANI AS IT ' Sf OUSO -.,B;E.


18               SOCIETY M     s'
unfolding truth, and those trfo enter its precincts are
pledged alike to its- virtues 4nd its vices. My counsel is,
be free, and then there is no one to molest nor make afraid
in all God's holy mountain. The error may be avoided
and the truth thought,- spoken, lived. The true man
rises above the ignorance and emptiness of groveling
humanity, and his sphere is "full of the knowledge of the
Lord as the waters cover the sea."
It is the professional interest of the clergy to cultivate
ignorance and superstition. It may be the interest of one
sect in its relations to another to promote education with-
in its pale; but it must be adapted to the peculiar appetite
of the sect. The knowledge communicated must be in
harmony with its dogmas, or it is anathematized. Seclulax
education is denounced by some branches of the Church,
and with the best of reasons, judging from the stand-point
of clerical interest. Germany, and portions of the United
States, are referred to -as evidence of the irreligious ten-
dencv of education separated from ecclesiastical direction.
And all church-organizations would oppose such educa-
tion were it not that, since knowledge is power, it gives
them  present importance with reference to rival sects.
But they would oppose it, nevertheless, were it not that
their insight of principles and perceptions of the future are
too vague and shadowy to enable them to realize that
true education is pregnant with destruction to them as
well as to Romansm.
When the people shall have become thoroughly edu-
cated, the authority of the Church and the power of-the
clergy are at an end forever. This being the case, it- is
the interest of the emissaries of the Church to foster a
certain kind of ignorance for the superstition which accom-
panies it; and this can only be done while they have un-
disciplined minds to work with. The mind that is truly
educated thinks for itself upon religious as well as other
subjects, speaks freely what it thinks, and acts as boldly.
It is to bring about this condition of humanity that all the
free should labor; but the clergy as a body war against it.
They raise the unreasoning cry of "scepticism" and "infi-
delity," and seek to promote a discipline of mind-the reverse

AND AS fl SHOULD JP .
of tree education. They teach themsubmission of- reason
to faith, whereasit is the true- object of education to de-
velop the reasoning faculties in harmony with MThe- whod
mental and spiritual being, to disenthrall them from the
tyranny of passion, prejudice and blind faith, that 'they
may be strong and free to act correctly and efficient-ly
upon all subjects, whether of art, science, philosophy or
religion.
A friend of mine, better situated than mnysg"lf, began
about the same time - the work of- reform.amongst the
members of his -,charge, and was, far more successful.
Thiswas'a rural district, away from the'bustlin and noisy
haunts of avarice and-fashion, and the:people freer frofnL
prejudice, and more deliberately thoughtful.  - -
My friend managed to-enlist the favor of the orein,
telligent, and had set the preponderating weight of-mind
and influence to moving, before the ever-watchful 4ragon
of conservatism could -rally his votaries. Swayed by the
magnetism'of the more active and energetic, the entire
congregation, with only here -'and there an exception,
drifted along with -the current, became interested ein the
freshness and beauty which surrounded them, and now
rejoice in liberty as it is in the gospel of folding truth.
They do their own religious thinking and acting, and
there is perfect tolerance. - Having rid themselves of
prejudice, they are brethren in the search of truth, add
they assist each-other. -. They are willing teachers and
ready learners, and see almost eye to eye. Their-religion
does not consist in-cold forms andsenselessand soulless
ceremonies, so that no. priest is -needed to ,mediate be-
tween them   and their God. Their religion =s not one -
which is talked about. and attended to on Sundays, -b t a
religion-which they live. They -have no arbitrary teacher,
commissioned by a mysterious- and -imaginary poweit
manifested by thelaying on of -hands; and recognize no
principle which would' invest an inferior man with divine
authority, and make him the teacher of'his brethren and
ruler over Israpl..- Their -teacher. upon-any occasion -is
such by" the superior proportions ofi his manhood-and
his instructions they receive, not-as uireaso ig; ,--s


20               SOcIETY AS IT IS

rational beings. They acknowledge no book as infallible
but the Book of Nature; and the God of the Universe is
their God.
. Trusting, Charles, that you will live worthy of the
noblest aspirations of a human being, I bid you a kind
and friendly good bye.
Thine .truly,        J. B. W-   .-
Charles was a little startled at the novelty and the
audacity of this letter, and fairly concluded that there
were more things in heaven and earth than were
dreamed of in his philosophy. He wanted to know
more of these things. He did not know why a man
might not live a life true to his being, in society 'as
it is. He called to mind some sedate and pious peo-
pie who' he thought could not exemplify the christian
virtues better under any social system. "1 will
write," said he to himself, "and see what-my kind
and communicative friend thinks of it."
Rev. J. B. W---:
DEA FRIEND :-I have read your letter with-much
interest.and profit. - It opened up-to me new connections
of thought; but there are some things which I cannot com-
prehend. I have been led to think :it is possible for
those who will it, to do. what is right upon all occasions
abd under all circumstances, and that it is rather desirable
than otherwise that the conditions should be unfavorable,
inasmuch as the moral courage and energy called into
action is a good moral discipline and strengthening to the
virtues, in addition to the mere act -of doing right consid-
ered apart from the circumstances under which it is done.
If such be the true doctrine, it would seem to be advisable
t. seek no better condition of society than weynow have,
as under unfavorable conditions a higher moral discipline
would be obtained. But even if it were'better to change
the order of society, I should not know how it could be
done. -'In short, I don't see how men's interests are to be
harmonized, even if' we had omnipotent power over hu.
man relations: Be.so kind as to answer.
Yours truly,   . CHARLEs HOPEWELL.

Mv Dzn CHAREES-AS towhetherh mali nu be'tiful
a Christian under existing circumstances, I answer, t'hat
if possible at all, it is only with the greatest dificulty'
Isolation 'without antagonism is unfavorable to =hristian
development; for in whatever position of life they individ-
ual i placed, he ;has to bear, the burden of -distraetiig'
cares upon his own individual account; and there 'are few
indeed who have not- their - strong besetting sins, and
hardly one in all this earth but suffers, a degrading infu,
ence from labors, cares, or vexations which appeai'to' the
animal man-against the moral energy es of the .soul.: Een
those who surfeit in luxury and rust in idlenessare'tora-
mented with ennui for want of attractive employment and
meet companionship.
But when to isolation is added the antagonism-which
is felt in almost= every department of our social structure,
the case',is still worse. Whatever -their professions men
can no -longer be brethren. This I 'will illustratesby an
example.r
Our Postmaster is an exemplary ,Christian, qutite intel-
lectual, writes for 'the press, and keeps books' for. sales
I was in but a few days since, and. there was &amp; preacher,
as I took hinj to be, trying to make a purchase of Clarks
Commentaries. They could not agree on-the price, anid
there was quite an effort- at cheapening ,on the onle hand,;
but avery calm and determined resistance onthe other.
For 'the' moment I was -.amused- at ,the dhafferingnd
giggling between them, but. upon -reflection I felt "tha I
should be sad rather than merry.
There was-some craft in the management of the busi4
ness, but every word was expressed with a great deal oft
kindness., As Igathered it, the books had been ebndition.
ally ordered,'but the purchaser seemed to apprehntahat
his brother was intent on rather :too large'a profit; whbFe
the latter endeavored to create theimpression that the
set was cheap at ten dollars. Having exbti'tvsted his in-
direct skill; the' buyer asked, at length,, "What do 'they.
stand you ?"'That was a poser,; and his brother ptouk
not hear ; but'the questions was repe atedandhe dswelrei4
" That makes' no difference,"  "0, 1 knowh"it

AND 'AS - IT £HOIY --BE.


21               SoCIETY AS IT Is

other,-confused. - Of course he knew that he had not asked
a " fair question," but he did not know why he might-not
violate the etiquette of trade in dealing with a worthy
and confiding. brother; bu.t the other did know.
Having finished reading my letter, I now left. how-
leng-Bonaparte and Wellington continued the encounter,
I cannot pretend to say. The books, I presume, were not
sold, as  have seen them there since.
. These two men, the one as seller and the other as
buyer, stood in antagonistic relations to each other, and
though Christianity required them to be brothers, civiliza-
tion forbid it. I do not envy the man his intellectual-
penetration and moral sensibility, who can see and feel no
wrong in such social relations, yet it is-to be feared that-
these two professing Christians were-hardly- conscious- of
the unnatural and unbrotherly conflict in which they
here met.   The one suspected the other of asking too.
much for the books, or in other words of being a little too
much devoted to the greed of the world, while his broth-
er doubtless blamed him for his "sustained- effort" at
cheapening, and, the unmannerly means he used to ac-
complish his purpose. Further, in all probability, they
did- not reflect.. :But, whether conscious or not of their
unfraternal relations to each other, they suffered, never-
theless, the evil influence- of the unchristian conflict. In
this ungallant encounter they were not one as Christ and
the-Father, and judge you, therefore, whether, the chil-
dren of God. " By their fruits shall ye know them."
' This kind of antagonism prevails in all that relates to
buying sad selling. The farmer is perhaps freer from this
baneful influence than any of his brethren ; but theyn he
must sell and buy, and consequently breathe the infectious
atmosphere of commerce.-
The mechanic feels the wrongs of society more painfully.
'An actual occurrence. But let it be understood, once for all,
that the author's quarrel is not with ii dividuals 'or classes, but
with satem,-or rather with conditions which obtain in conse*
of te want of system. These conditions wll soil the robes
o   p- i.

AND As- IT &amp;HOU .D- BE.          23
In contracting for a job it is his interest to getas  ieh-
and his employer's to pay as little, as -possible.  re
antagonism. It is the interest of the-former to-spend.as
little labor as will suffice to get the job off his hands and
save his credit as a workman, while it is the interest of the
latter to get as much labor and the job as well executedas
possible.' There again isantagonism. Ofseveral mechan
ics it in the interest of each to get the -same job, a&amp; as
but one can do so, in the-strife they are euen iis. They
may have been brethren to all appearance on Sunday, and
received together the sacrament of the -Lords-upper yet
on Monday they are striving for self and trying to over-
reach :one another. With some this may be merely a
temptation, but with others it is a dread necessity owing
to the want of meais- to keepsoul and body together.
Some may be so circumstanced as-to worldly gopds, and
so constituted morally that they can resist, to-a great ex
tent, these evil influences, -Others may be :so circum-
stanced that the temptation becomes atnecessityand they
must violate the highest attributes of theirnature. Other.
still may be- so constituted spiritually that theatenptations
to wrong are omnipotent over them.   ut the strongest,
both as to circumstances and mental constitution, live in
the midst of contagion, breathe the miasmatic atmosphere,
and must suffer the moral .paralysis to a greateror'less
extent. "Evil communication corrupts goo&amp; ni rer '-=
is a truthful saying, and well understood by-all good pe -
pie who have the control of young persons. r Yhey would
keep them away ;rom the haunts of, vice, knowing that the
way to resist the devil issto flee from him.- Moralpolu.
tion is- contgious,wher.inthe grosser forms of-sin.or
in those subtler elements of wrong whih permeate t-
whole -body of society and affect. for evil the -universal
family of man..--rM -
It is true tlfat. when temptation. is resisted, the.moral
powers are strengthengd; but it is., an unfortunate stain
upon -this picture,,-that 1temptation is' -very generally
yielded to. Min is the creature of ciramst neeA go
while .his will is free, it is subject to the .la[ oferegee"
seqaencs asgeyary other    eft~od's eateage s-M-it4

w


24    SOCIETY AS IT is

suppose, what a man wills he may do,-unless prevented by
necessities not to be found in his own mind; but the
difficulty is in the willing. It is for this reason that man's
redemption will not be effected by operating solely upon
the individual.  It is true that the 'mass must be
operated on through the individual, but until the form of
society is changed so that the inducements to action are
on - the side of virtue, the 'individual -must continue to
yield to the wiles of the tempter, for the tempter will'
still live.
If it were good for man that he be tempted, so that by
overcoming evil he might make virtue strong, it would
be well to make the conditions of society as bad as possi-
ble. But this course is condemned by the labors of all
good men. And if in a few things it is better to remove
temptation and present incitement to good, it is better'
that the same should be done in all things.
As to the manner of changing the conditions of society,-
it would make this letter too long to present the merest
sketch of any scheme likely to produce such a result.
You will excuse me for the present, and believe me
Your friend, truly.      J. B. W.
Charles had, in the meantime, written to a mer-
chant, and was now anxious to hear from him. The
next mail brought the letter.
DRAP Sn:--Your letter of inquiry has been received,
and I reply with pleasure. If you value your spiritual
interest you will not think of becoming a clerk. There
is no business within the whole range of human vocation
which presents so much- temptation to wrong. Clerks
must learn to lie indirectly, and, if pressed too hard, direct-
ly--there is no alternative. When formerly engaged in
merchandising according to the approved fashion, consid-
erations of success made it absolutely necessary to shift
off all such clerks as had too much simplicity of character
and moral integrity to be broken into the regular dis-.
cipline of the trade. Open, communiCative, frank, free,
honest youtg men cannot be successful 'salesmen,-and are
not in requisition by the metcantile fraternity. The

24

pr
1:

ANt AS ITUOY '-I
questioins'of 4l bred;=inquisitivpe peol° anst}ho ,og
dealers, we hold-aintagonisti. retations , mst e  a  ed;
and if truth doesin o serve the purgoses 4f seeing goda,
falsehood or' artfully =sion wilt; for goods-selling Ii
understood, isp  atabunt; and vanity,-pride and proft
all conspire to sacrifice the noblest traits of charadter t
this end.
A ;doublebfaced, or rather many-faced, bland; equivo
eating,. falsifying person, whose sruples 'of consciice
never'intei-fere- with business, is the ,sort of subject' wanted]
Such a disposition, with an active intellectfio diredt.=itis
the kind for "business.  One thus gifted will malea
good salesmanda d a good salesnianis a:personage of no
small consequence-behind the counter. ?. good =heart
constitutes no part of the qualifications ; the oral cbar.
acter may be anything, so the bietishes- are;not too
manifest.
The very spirit of cornierce is a false one. The
merchant is openly i competition with his brethren, and
secretly in antagonism with his customers. It is lis
professional interest to buy cheap and sell daar, and notQ
only so, but, in Cases difficult of detection, tobuy inferior
goods and selW them, if possible fas of superior.juality.
He resorts daily to false intelligent ce, specious Coloring,
and deception in all its shades, as indispensable parts off
the system. He prostitutes the science of Chemistry; te
the adulteration of articles of trade, to: increase their
quantity, change their quality anddefraud theVeople;-.
and all for the glory of:Mammon in the sacred groves at4.
temples -of commerce.        wihu-    ytm
Commercial operations-are =without systemm and, in
consequence, often destructive andh-asteful, In times of
scarcity the storehousesl-and granaries are shut ag irst
the people unti1 their contents deteriorateit guli c an&amp;
often become wholly .unf for use ; and thus the e6ple
are robbed and a sacrifice made by the priests f eo
mere. to the god .ofgreed.     =              :
QUe point is-neglected til the demand ,ecoes. great ;
a general; rush:is made_.to supply it, and the ;raaetis
over-stocked.. The goods mist -batakenelsewhedpe
3


gg6

a    1=-'eotreB  AS IT IS

tops t the very point whence-they came. Not. in demand
there, they are shipped again, and in some cases .this s
repeated several times. Thus it is no uncommon thing
for the.same region to export foreign productions and im-p
port its own. By the processes of shippingunship-
ping, draying, 'storing,,and booking of the same -goods,
so oten repeated, property is wasted, labor lost, the mid-
barrassed ;---and all this is the life of trade, the bustle of
business, the glory of commerce.
Commerce is a game of chance, and some who play at
it become as unprincipled as professional gamblers.- In
this as in other games, there are losers, as we have seen,
but some are winners. A city is burned down ora inun-
dated, a crop fails and the people are starving; a few
bestir themselves and realize fortunes, for which they are
honored and of which they are proud ;-fortunes based"
upon public calamity as the shaft of the monument upon
its pedestal..
It gives me pain to contemplate the golden years I-
have lost, and worse than lost, under the damning influ-
ences of this profession. I did nothing but what was
deemed strictly honorable, as reckoned by the standard-
of the counting-house; but the unnatural and antagonistic-
relatins in which I stood to my fellow man, the equivo-
cation and deception which it was necessary, with suc-
cess as the aim, to practice, lost to me forever the morn-
ing and almost the noon of. my existence."
- It was, my interest to cultivate the friendship of my
customers, but I could not help but feel that every one
who entered for the purpose of buying, was in some sense
my enemy. It was my interest to get as much, and his to
pay as little, as possible. Chaffering and craft on his
part had to be met on mine,.and thus I came into disagree-
able contact with almost every customer I had. Our
relations to each other were to all appearances friendly
and kind enough, but I felt' with poignance the=discord of-
eternal conflict-a conflict, it is true, which ran in an
under-current, but none the less real a-td'soul-degrading
on that'aceount. There was-no such thing as truegdevo-
ted, ;disinterested friendship between us. Our relations

AND ,AS IT- S hLD BE.

m,

r dered this uttery lmpasible; afd 0, 'my soubaodi
and I deplored the necessity=which =laad-these thtsa.
Was there no remedy I it aibaol ute and igiaebl
necessity that the business relations oftherace IaSt
separatetle brothers apd bring them in cont4aasene-
mies ?  Is thereno rnore wisdom in heaeand dantheme
be no more goodness in earth, than this ?
The subject of ' Unio Stores." was now agitated and
a newfight flashed upon jiy mind.' That .aravefjthe
involutions of tie gordian 'knot, and break the fettertat
binds me down to earth. TIwilt opposite nattertomy
friends."  I did so. Many were intelligent - andlibea,
and saw at a glance that 'it Was-their interest to4o ikito
the measure. I am now their-agent;.and have chargedf
their store. ' It is no longer a necessity o1equivocateand
deceive. My -interestas a -rnan and mys interestas. a
dealer are in perfect harmony. I can cultivate the-purest
and most uneserved friendship.The inerst of my em-
ployers is mine, 4rd there is-no jaring.  byr if possible
at te nearesV point of production trpnsport c iormicaly,
and sell at cost. "All have an equal interest with me in
this, and no ne thhiaks-'of speculaio;asthat fhas no part
in the scheme.r       -
o, that 'mei' would laj side their rejudke, epay.dd
their intelligence, abandon the renati ns of wrong and hate,
devote themselves' to humanity and be, meir  Chailes,
never think of going behind the counter, except as-agent
of those awho embYaces. within themselv~a the reactionn of
merchant and customer ;--in: their i'ndivihd capacity,
customers; in their associated capacity, the merchant,
First see your own highest good,, and aI thse hings
shall be added unto you.
Yours for the Brotherhood of Sin,
Charles read, and as usual thought all the" whie
He 'had been led to, suppose thatthe relation':of
merchant and eustoreras generally .btains  ,as.
fixed.. and eternal Butfit s.'m  ed that thebarriers
of consecrated uge hid already beenbroken        /

i: cI
,                                                    'S.' R. ' l:i
S


28            SOCIETY AST 18                                 A

and that htnnanity had -reason to rejoice in the
desecration. What a union store was, he-could not
fully decipher. - He had seen the name in the public
news, and felt some curiosity at the time, but now
he determined to watch more closely, and perhaps
he' would soon find a complete solution of the
mystery.
From the clergyman's second letter, Charles, had
got a pretty good idea of the evils of antagonism to
which some of the mechanical employments are sub-
ject. But , he thought that all .could not -be thus
exposed, and so he visited an intelligent shoemaker
He supposed that a skilful workman in this business
would not feel such strife with his brothers of the
same occupation, as obtains amongst carpenters,
wagonmakers, bricklayers, &amp;c., with whom a single
job is a matter of so much more importance. He
shaped his statement accordingly, and having made
known his wants and wishes, was thus responded to:.
"Friend Charles-So far as shoemaking is con-
cerned, a good workman can make a living for a
large family, if he sticks to his business and attends
to nothing else. But as you seem to value the higher
ends of our being, I should not recommend it. It
will not do if one does think-independently, to speak
and act too boldly. The people will not-allow their
prejudices and antipathies to be crowded too closely;
- for 'they are as careful about good believing in their
cobbler as about good pegging and stitching, and
would rather be pinched with an ilifitting shoe, than
with the reflection of having patronized an ungodly
shoemaker. There are enough to cringe. to these
unrighteous exactions. They are in the Church and
out of the Church, rich and poor, old and. young.
Popular opinion is their conscience, and. I have seen
them choose their words, square their conduct, and
sacrifice their manhood, all for the good opinion of

others; and theydidenet seem sensible of theirdega.
daltion. Some. persons -are nothig to .temselires;
only as they see their image in other people' notion-
If they see an-.ugly image, they are frightenediand
have not: philosophy enough; to attribute itto the
reflecting surface, but go to zvwork distorting them
selves to get the picture endurable.' Such i. tte
blindnesssuch the'perversity and littleness all around
us. This does not Obtain amongst  the plbiaas
only; the, patricians are as little as we. The psycho
logical plane of the teacihe r anid ruler iS butlittle
above that of the ignorant and feeble.e The oneis
adapted to the -other.- The blind lead the blind, ahd:
both fall into the pit together;, but they don't seem
to mind it-it.is 'looked upon as a matter of course,
and the slough is nothing.
"Butif there are some who cringe. from taste;
there are others 'wha do not.. I know one b1aekk
smith, a tailor, 'and. two, shoemakers,. who had to
leave this very town for their indiscretion. 'They
thought as. men should, spoke .boldly, and became
propagandists of innovation.  The- people began
to avoid. them, withdrewtheir patronage, and gave
it to others who had not sinned.. . Escaped; but it
was the necessity of. bread and butter that: imade
me a better man than they. I was supported in the
present by the hopes of the future. And,.0, rmy
God, 1'do long, for -truer conditions, and 'pray most
fervently that the means of. lifer may be guarantied
me upon-such terms as a freemancan accept. When
that time comes, thenmshal I'be as grest an  tlaw-
to slavery- and its minions as ever rny ostracised
brethren were. I love truth, and weuld gladly speak
it and act -it, but dire necessity seals' 'my' lips and
palsies my energies . Those who were driven from
here 'have to be more circumspoet whe ethey ae
now: But I thank-God that the tinmes:are brightening

AND. AS IT SIIQ'LD " BE.


S.          ~~~SOLI TY AS IT- 1S-A                                       AjITsttt     BE

with a better day,-and that these unrighteous things
wilinot -long continue. Freedom--I feif and can.
not be mistaken--freedom must ere 10pi be pro-
claimed to :the captive, whether in the-cotton-fields
and rice-swamps of the -South, or .in the cabins and
workshops of the North. I may not live to see all
this, but I do) believe that the time is very near when
the slave of capital, if he wills it, may be free. I
expect soon to be a man. Never be a bondman,
Charles. I have worn the chains artd know that
they are heavy and galling. God bless you, and
may you become strong to - crush down oppression
and lift up the lowly."
Chatles heard-.a tear started to his eye, and that
moment he consecrated himself to -the service of
humanity. Ministering spirits were present; ;they
infused into his soul the divine energies of their own
fine sphere, and he felt their inspiring presence.
Charles resolved to be independent at all events.
He had been- considerably amongst the farmers, and
thought that- they, if any in civilization, might-be
noblemen. They could produce their own bread;
and with their surplus produce procure groceries,
clothing, books, newspapers, periodicals--in -short,
all the necessaries, conveniences, comforts, and - ap-
purtenances of a life such as a man of true aspiration
might desire.
Charles demanded the scanty patrimony which had
been left him, and with this and his sister's, he pur-
chased a small farm. He had some knowledge of
farming, got a work or two on the" art, subscribed
for an agricultural paper, purchased a team, with
the requisite implements,,and went to plowing.
Without doubt Charles made a wise choice, but
he did not realize all he anticipated. He could feel
that he was independent in some respects, but in
others the veriest slave. He' could -speak and at

-as is mnhoodrequgiredbut th r were n.essities
to whiei he had 'togield. pit wshie ish4trWork
as much as his health-and. Vigor der adedbHut
sometimes he cold not do this mucrand -at-other
times was -compelled to do more  H  wes aseve
student, and made athe improvement -f-his highest
nature the greatend of life. But during thb6 wiaer
season, owing to the inclerhencof :the weather and
no particular-callfor work within doors, he oftendid
not get as puch exercise:as 'his systemirequiret.
And then during the summer seasoiriul~ose-talmn
clear, settled -days, which are -,so-much the. best'-frt
vigorous intellectual exertion, were the:viry. days-hi
farm4ahors called himfrom his studies. - His-lisure
times were born of raining weather, whe i electrical
disturbance renders the mind lethargic and altogether
unfit for vigorous and sustained effort. -  - -
And then during harvest,plantings ieding, and n
some other occasions, -there-was a rush of work
which drew too largely upon Charlest physical eners
gies, and did him harm.  -ite was altogether out of
the range of his attractions. on such cca ions;his
nature was outraged, and at times he felt despondent.
The mind could niot work undersucWkdudgery, the
spiritual nature seemed blnted, and Charles felt that
at these timesdie Was really imbruiting himself.---But
he saw: no bettei- situation in life  none so good in
fact and he rad-e himself as contented as possible.
The retired nature of his ocepation, together with
active exerctse - in the open air, when -not continued
too long, was favorable to thinkingand: Charles, as
I have said, was -a thinker. Hekcould see :larly
enough that the unfavorable conditions -which 1h
laboredunderas farmer, were referable to isolation
and could only be remedied by association. --
Whenhe had- prodn~ee-to dispose; f,.he found that
the more he had the merelikely he wa togetgoo4

A    '   . A01 IT                          F.


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.           33

bargain in the selling. In buying, he ascertained that
the larger the purchase the lower the rates at which
it was to be had. He observed that his farm re.
quired much more fencing in proportion to its size
than larger ones, and that with his one plow and
team he could cultivate much more ground than he
had. Why not associate, thought Charles, and be
brothers?  A large barn is far less expense in pro-
portion to the room it contains, than the small one
I have. A spacious house which would accomodate
several families would afford the same economies
over the little one I live in. I must have one
kitchen for myself and sister; a dozen families must
each have the same;-let us unite, and one kitchen
well furnished will do us all. Here I must spend
several hours per week doing errands at the nearest
town-five miles off. Articles must be had. out of
the store or grocery, the plowshare must be sharp-
ened, a ring mended, or the horses shod. And
there's the mail-it must be had at least once a week,
or the news gets old, accumulates, and is a heavy
job to get through with. All these errands I must
do for one household, one farm; and each of my
twelve neighbors must do the same. How selfish
and stupid ! One could do all this business as well
and nearly as quickly as the whole thirteen. Stars
of my country I am 1 crazy, or what'is the matter?
Charles was not so crazy that he could not cipher.
He reckoned the economies which ,would thus be
secured by association, and ascertained that for eight
or ten families, they would be more than one.half.
But this would not be all tle.gain. There would be
many, with the same interest, and always at each oth-
ers' elbows, to assist in case of a throng. When the
demand for labor in a. certain direction should be
very urgent,-it could be withdrawn from other sour-
ces, and the corn planted, harvest cut and secured,

the grain sowed, or corn gathered without overwork-
ing any. So far from being seasons of dread and
drudgery, Charles thought they might be seasons of
mere sport. The whole business, moreover, could
be .assisted with machinery, so well adapted to
the larger operations of anassociation, and this can
only be realized in isolation with difficulty and
trouble.
But this was not all. The economies of even a
small association,; amounting to more than fifty per
cent., would enable all the members of .uch a ctno-
munity, to do as well on five hours labor per, day as
they had done on ten in isolation. Charles thought
this a glorious feature, the essence in fact ., of the
whole matter, and was so enraptured with the idea,
that he fancied all he had to do was to tell his story
to others,, and they would see at once the advantages.
of association over isolation. He did so, and his
neighbors laughed at him. They had always been
used to the good old way, and that way was the best,
The glory'of truth as he felt it in.his own nature and
aspirations, was counterbalanced by the, shock of a
repulse so rude, and he deplored the selfishness, preju-
dice, and ignorance which darkened the intellects and
blunted.the- moral sensibilities of those around him.
But Charles stuck .to. his farm, as I said, isolation and
all;-he could do no better.
.4

SOCMY AS- IT Is


SocIlTY AS IT IS

CHAPTER II.
CHARLES AND POLITICS.
CHARLES had a generous ambition and an active
mind, as I have said, and these gave him a desire to
be of use in his" day and. generation."  He must act
-it was a necessity of his nature-and, as with all
persons, circumstances had much to do in giving
direction to his energies.-
He heard much theological discussion, thought for
himself, and discussed the topics of the pulpit with his
young friends; but further he could not well go. He
did not see that there was any useful outlet to his en-
ergies in this direction. He could not realize the re-
generation of which others spoke, and so did not feel
that it would become him to teach in matters of
religion.
Some two or three of his young acquaintances,
much more ignorant than himself, were "born again,
called and qualified," and in a very short time entered
upon the ministry. Charles had-no-great confidence
in such " experience."  He preferred better fruit as
the warrant of change in the character of the tree.
If, as in olden times, with the new spirit alledged to
have been received, commensurate wisdom and pow-
er from on high had been manifested, he-would have
believed; but the new-born teachers seemed as stu-
pid as before, and had no wish to rise above the dead
level of know-little-or-nothing; and Charles did not
like so much assumption in connection with so much
ignorance. He was conscious of the abundance of

his own ignirigt and so did not set himself up as
one of the chosen, and as.a teacher in Israel. Never-
theless he loved theology well,-had a natural taste for
the higher range of its studies, and revelled there as
an - amateur.
Meantime,.there must be a practical outlet, if possi-
ble, for Charles' superabundant energies; and the
political field was open for adventurers. He had no
mental attraction for this department of human en-
deavor, but still he did not know why a man of ca-
pacity might not, with good motives, do good in the
way of politics.
Charles had been trained up to regular democracy,
lived in a democratic neighborhood, read democratic
journals, and so, it may be presumed, was a pretty
strong democrat, with no high opinion of whiggery.
At the time of which I speak, Charles had not got
far into his "teens."  Whatever might be his voca-
tion hereafter, he thought that there was a chance
for usefulness in this direction ; or rather, felt and
knew that there was an outlet for present mental en-
ergy, and accordingly he met with the democrats at
their caucuses and public gatherings, and was often
called on for a speech, young as -he was. He was
prepared for these occasions, and, having a full charge
of magnetism,, though not altogether of the popular
kind, yet he generally managed to make considerable
of an impression. His nature was genial, and his
manners altogether unassuming, so: that he made
warm friends, and long before he was old enough
they wanted to put him on the track for office. But
finding that he was too young, one of the good old
regulars, and a " simon pure," whom they all famil-
iaily called Bob Davyson, told him in rather a confi-
dential way, for solace, perhaps, that should he be
true to his party and labor well, he would never have
occasion to exclaim, "God save me from my friends,"


"O CI TyAS IT I%

38             AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

Charles was still in his teens when he began to see
a little into the nature of party. The low abuse, vi-
tuperation, hate and slang of professed political pa-
pers and orators were offensive to him; but he bore
with these things as the weakness of others, rather
than as a necessity of partyism. Once Charles'
mind got a start in the right direction, he was not
long in tracing the whole drift of party manceuvering.
The machinery was worked behind the scenes, and
the great mass of the people knew little or nothing of
it. There was a great profession of love for the dear
people, and they were generally silly enough to be-
lieve it. The rank and file of each party supposed
their own leaders very paragons of patriotism and
disinterestedness; but Charles could probe deep
enough into human motives to understand very well
that the initiated only laughed at the people for a set
of fools. The office seeking dynasty were making
use of the people for their own aggrandizement, as
kings and tyrants do in other countries for their own
glory-with this difference, that there they are driv-
en by the force of brute energy ; but here, drawn by
the,wiles of stratagem. There the will originates
with the few, and is made to act directly upon the
people; here the will originates with the few, and
the people are skilfully made the tools to act upon
themselves.
Charles' attention was first drawn to the corrup-
tion of parties, by their strategy in the distributing of
States. The strongest party would do up the dis,
tributing in its own way, aiming to get two to one
*     in the next delegation to Congress, or the next Legis-
lature, as the case might be. It would happen, too,
that when one party could not get the distributing
done according to its own geometry, its patriotic
members would resign and go home. They did not
hesitate to sacrifice the Legislature of their State to
party.fidelity,-such de,voted and devotional patriots

were they I But, when one party would succeed it
its designs, the other would declare. the appointment
law unconstitutional; and then came the contest for
seats, waged with all the bitterness of personal con-
tention.- And again, with one party successful, the
other would meet in solemn conclave, and its self-
sacrificing champions pledge their sacred-honor, not
to take their seats if elected, and thus resolve the State
into anarchy, or, as they said, resolve the -govern-
ment into its original elements, and deliver it into the
hands of the people;-they. loved the people so, and
had such confidence in them; but as the event showed,
they loved office, too, for they did take their seats,
and put their trust in them., At least they took them
on the first day at an earlier hour than usual, made
sure of their speaker, and lest the other party should
have a chance to elect another, they stuck to them
all night. Valiant men carried pistols and talked of
shooting one another. Week after week was wasted,
the people's money squandered, and nothing done
but quarreling; all for the good of the country.A
All this was deeply insulting to the people, butthey
did not seem to know it. All they could see, as a
general thing, was that one party was right, and the
other was wrong. But Charles, as I have said, was
getting his eyes open.
The whig party passed a very good tax law; it had
weak-points,it is, true, but its general feature.,and the
fundamental principles pon which it was hased, were
unexceptionable,.  Charles saw this,- but =his party
could see nothing that .was good. The, thing was
novel, it interfered with people's property-a sensi-
tive point, and the democratic journals. were glad of
it. They waged relentless war,.misrepresented the
law, distorted the good and exaggerated the bad.
*An anochronism : but the difference of a year does V.pt affect
the lesson taught by the political tergiversation sketched in our
text.

4,


SOCIETY AS IT IS

38            AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

It was just so on all hands. One party would
" come down" upon the other, "all fours,"--for it is
a beast-and that, too, for what itself would do, and
perhaps had done, under similar circumstances. In
nominating a candidate for office, no principles would
be declared, and sometimes the candidate himself
would not venture to open his lips, lest some offen-
sive word should escape and damage his prospects.
And then if the aspirant should make a declaration,
it must be clothed in such ambiguous language that
men of his party, antipodes in sentiment, could adapt
it to their predilections and vote for him with a clear
conscience. This was especially true of candidates
for the Presidency. Availability was the grand con-
sideration in convention ; success the grand consid-
eration afterwards, and the means were adapted to
the end.
Charles had observed this, and began to reason
coolly as to what course he should adopt for himself.
What was good in the opposite party he could ac-
knowledge, and what was ;vrong in his own he could
condemn. He tried to reason with some of his friends
of both parties, but they were as "firm as a rock,"
as one of them said. A few could see into the leger-
demain of party, but when it came to voting, they
fell into the ranks for fear "the other party would
beat." Love of opposition and the narrowest preju.
dices ruled them. Charles became disgusted, and his
partyism cooled off greatly. He spoke his mind free-
ly, and his old friends who seemed the most forward
to promote him for the services rendered to the good
cause of democracy, were now the first to desert him.
With these people there was no greater virtue than
devotion to party. With them, in their honest sim-
plicity, partizan fidelity was the culmination of patri-
otism, and they demanded it with scrupulous ex-
actitude.

Charles had become a suspicious: character. He
could not see everything right his party did; and this
was enough to place him under the ban of all who
stood ".straight up and down" in the ranks of party,
and might be called regulars. They thought him a
tory, federalist, whig, abolitionist, or something equal-
ly as bad. At least they said he' was a traitor to his
party;--they cashiered him, and he was glad.of it. It
set him free; and as he now realized how much bet-
ter it was to be a freeman than a slave to party, his
mind was made up as to his future course When
Cass went over to slavery and .denied the. right of
Congress to legislate for the territories-a right
which Congress had frequently exercised, and several
Presidents sanctioned-he deserted him, and .though
he was not old enough to vote, yet, so far as he was
able, he gave his support to Van Buren and Adams.
He labored with all the zeal and energy for which
he was distinguished, when fairly enlisted in what he
deemed a good cause. He was instrumental in giv-
ing a few votes to liberty, and he felt that he was
well rewarded for his pains; but some of his friends
told him that he was ruining his reputation and mak-
ing wreck of his influence. They argued that as
there could be no hope of electing the man of his
choice, he had better labor where there was more
prospect of a successful issue. But Charles could not
appreciate their logic and did not like-to favor iniqui-
ty in any shape, even if by his own-efforts he could
add to the chances of the less iniquity over the great-
er; and so he chose to make his voice heard directly
in behalf of truth and liberty.
'Facts afterwards confirmed the wisdom of Charles'
course,-wisdom in the practical sense, for, though
there were but thirty-five thousand votes polled in his
own State for freedom, yet, even with this compar-
atively small number, much was done; The vety


w

40

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

next winter the "Black Laws" were repealed, and a
true man elected to the United States Senate. This
little band of independents, though embracing only
about one seventh of the voters in the State, accom-
plished more for its measures than either of the other
parties did for theirs. It is not always numbers that
prevail, nor the semblance of power, and even ty-
rants and demagogues tremble in the presence of
truth and determination. But whether immediately
successful or not, Charles had a supreme confidence
in the power of right, and held it his duty to stand
up for it under all circumstances. He had but little
taste for policy and legerdemain, even with the right
in view, but chose rather to be direct, and trust to
progress and the future. He never chose- between
evils except in cases of absolute necessity, and these
were few indeed. When two evils presented them-
selves he took neither. He stood aloof, or else ar-
rayed himself against both, hoping in this way to ob-
viate the necessity and even the occasions of having
to decide between evil, sand taking a demon into one's
embrace merely because it is the less of two. And
Charles thought, furthermore, that if..the greater
wrong should prevail in consequence of the with-
drawal of support from the less, the mischief would
be only a present one, and the reaction for good far
greater. To temper wrong and oppression so that
it can be just barely endured, only serves to prolong
the evils; while if they come too heavy for endurance,
the yoke is thrown off and ,humanity set free. It is
thus that the greater evil may be eventually the less
of the two. Charles was a true man even in his
boyhood.
Four years afterwards he had occasion again to
put his principles into practice. He saw clearly
enough that the two old parties were standing on
the same platform; contending merely for the spoils,

SOCr1rT AS IT I8'

41

and duping the people into party conflict by The tal-
isman of old names, which they had seen on their
banners and rallied round in days of yore. Charles
was sad to see the way the world was going, and
could hardly restrain himself from entering into the
contest. But he held it to be the duty of every man
to consider well his own tastes and capacities, arid
not only so, but the circumstances in which he is
placed, and so act as to accomplish the most good for
himself and others. But Charles had no great liking
for politics, as I have said, and besides, he livedaamong
an ignorant. and' superstitious people, with whom,
political, religious, and social heretic as he'was known
to be, he would not be likely to effect much; 'and so
he determined to desist and apply his labors in a way
more congenial to his attractions and more encour-
aging with the prospect of a future harvest of human
good. But when it came to circulating documents
and voting, Charles with a -hearty good will gave- his
support to Hale and Julian.
It is but proper to state here, and I wish it dis-
tinctly understood, that Charles is no party man He
is an absolute independent in politics as well as in
everything else, and knows of no such thing in his
ethics as fidelity to party---he prefers fidelity to prin-
ciple. He knows well that there are demagogues-in
all parties, and that the longer the party has been in
existence the more -of them, the more corruption,
and the more abandonment of principle. He'advo-
cates such measures and votes for such men as at any
lime he thinks most likely to forward the great inter-
ists of humanity.
Charles' political adventures did him good. They
enabled him to study human nature more deeply, and
ae did not fail to profit by his opportunities. He was
aow well convinced that as no man could serve God
nd Mammon, so no man could serve Hunkerism and


42             AND AS IT SHOULD. BE.

his country ; that devotion to party and devotion to
principle were utterly inconsistent. And inasmuch as
the opposing of error is necessarily involved in an
uncompromisin devotion to right, Charles learned
that it was wholly impossible for any one to cultivate
his intellectual and moral energies, make reason and
conscience his guide, and not receive the censure of
the ignorant, prejudiced and interested, who always
have been "firm as a rock," and always mean to be.
Charles thought about these things, and lamented
them deeply; but mere regret would not answer-
there must be actual working. The evil must be
cured-and how can this be done? What do the
people really need? It was clear enough to Charles'
mind that the whole trouble consisted in an unde-
veloped state of the intellect, and general ignorance.
Education, therefore, was the remedy. Charles did
what he could in this direction; consistent with his
other labors. His farm duties and general studies
prevented him from teaching, but he labored to in-
fuse into others, and especially into the young, more
liberal ideas concerning education. He organized a
Teacher's Institute in his own county, visited other
sections and lectured on education, encouraged teach-
ers, and did all in. his power to dispel darkness by the
diffusion of light.
Charles had now been on his farm two years; but
his sister was not with him, and it behooves us to
inquire after her.

CHAPTER III.
MARY AND THE ,PREACHER.
MARY was Charles' sister in _mind as well as by the
ties of consanguinity. She observed and thought;
and one of her sex who observIes and thinks, is not
long in finding out that woman does not occupy the
most desirable position in the society of boasted civ-
ilization. She could see well enough that woman is
much deferred to, but she learned to look upon this
deference as the price which man pays her for the
surrender of .rights justly hers.  She is taxed, and
made amenable to laws which she is allowed no voice
in making. The.avenues- to business are closed to
her as they should not be; and-when permitted to
labor, a just compensation is withheld;; and in con-
sequence she is made dependent upon the other sex.
If she would seek a social position of honor and re-
spect, often, indeed, if she would avoid want aad mis-
ery, and seek the means of a comfortable living, she
is compelled to merge her existence into that of an-
other. Being thus dependent, she often enters into
-the most uncongenial-union, and in seekingprotection
finds hopeless misery,
But many cannot find .even so poor a refuge as
this, and are forced into garrets and cellars to earn
wherewith to live, by the slavery of eighteen or twen-
ty long, weary hours of unremitting toil. This wears
down the body, 'sinks the spirit* and then, in too
many cases, does not serve its victims with the means
of living. Desperate and distracted, many beaute-
ous daughters of humanity, formed for love adIap-


44              SOCIETY AS IT IS

piness, accept the wages of sin, and damn the soul
to save the body.
It is sad enough when such degradation is the re-
sult of the necessity of food and clothing, but when
it results from the morbid cravings of vanity, it seems
harder still for humanity. Society,in the first place,
fosters a passion for dress and show, then denies the
means of its gratification, but opens up the paths of
iniquity, points them out to its victims, and poor hu-
man nature gives way. What a contemplation for
any pure mind ! What admirer of civilization, with
any purity of aspiration for himself and race, but
must feel that civilization is not the embodiment of
all that is good and lovely! -But, Chris tianity-lo!
were is modern Christianity-and its votaries ?
lIary was wondering all the while; but voices
oane from the wealthy and well-provided-for, in the
pulpit and elsewhere. Mary listened, and the voices
-hollow enough they seemed--lauded society as it
exists, boasted the blessings of civilization, and the
wonderful things Christianity had done for the eleva-
tion of woman. Mary felt grateful for what woman
had already received, and thanked God for the prin-
ciples and labors by which the blessings had been
achieved. But she felt that much remained to' be
de'ne; and why did not our regular and approved
teachers seriously -take these things into hand, and
consider the ways and means of realizing a practical
redemption of the fallen? Mary did not like that
spirit which could only see the good that had' been,
but closed its eyes to that which might be. There
was too, much self-complacency in this, and she could
not help thinking that too many who profess concern
for the race are more absorbed in their own person-
al ease and comfort than in earnest labor for the good
of others.
But woman has just cause of complaint in other

respects. She is' shut out from colleges and  m l
schools, and thus denied the advantages these institu,
tions afford for cultivating the mind and fitting- it for
the pursuits of literature, science and. art.. Thiseis
unjust, arbitrary, and unmanly, and Mary knew it.
But the greatest wrong which woman endures, is
the licentiousness of the other sex. -Man pollutes
himself in all kinds of sexual vice, makes woman his'
victim, and at the sametime demands not only that
she shall be pure, but that at the sacrifice of a just
individual freedom, she shall be' eternally giving him
pledges of her innocence. She must watch with the
utmost care over her every look, word and act, and
never look, speak, or do   nything. which man, with
the instrumentality of his perverted imagination, eag
torture into a testimony against her. The nari w
path is marked out for her, and if she Steps beyond
it she is "done for." She, may be. as chaste as Di-
ana, but if she disregards'the constraints of arbitrary
conventionalism, she is fallen ; while the man who
associates with harlots, and victimizes innocence,
may walk bravely through the world- an honorable
member of society.
Mary had notenough of mock modesty and indel-
icate squeamishness to prevent her from thinking, and
sometimes conversing upon such topics as these,
Although she regarded -taxation without represented,
tion a wrong, yet she was not- convinced that the
true remedy is to be found in extending. to woman
the right of suffrage; and she thought that instead of
urging this so strongly in woman's rights conventions,
it would be better to adopt such measures as would
remove from woman the unjust restraints of false
delicacy, and from man 'the curse of emasculating in-
dulgence. But then the thought occurred, that until
woman achieves her pecuniary independence, she can
do but little in her own behalf to shield herself from

AND AS IT " SHOULD ; BE.


AND AS IT SHOULD  E.47

impurity and win man from the ways and by-ways
of sin. How then is woman to escape her political
wrongs? how open the channels of justly remuner-
ative labor, and thus achieve her pecuniary indepen-
dence? how obtain equal participation with man in
the advantages of education? how promote her own
purity and man's?   Here was a problem which
Mary did not feel able to solve ; and while woman's
rights conventions had not presented the whole prob-
lem, she thought they had failed to obtain all the ele-
ments of its solution. She resolved to await the fu-
ture, for she saw by the light of a brilliant intuition
that the combination which solves the problem would
soon be for woman to employ. Mary was not nis-
taken.
Meantime, she came across a minister of the gos-
pel, for whom she had formed an attachment when
quite young. He had formerly resided in the same
village with her parents, but had removed, was gone
several years, and had now returned and taken upon
himself the responsibility of his former charge..
Mary proposed her difficulties, pretty much as I
have stated them, and the preacher was very much
shocked. He told her that all that ever had been ef-
fected for the good of man had been done in a regu-
lar way, and that it was to the sanctified efforts of
the Church that she must look for the elevation of
her sex. He gave her to understand that the scheme
for the remedy of all these evils, was in full opera-
tion, and that the reason why some were not blessed
thereby was owing to the hardness of their own
hearts.
Here Mary interposed. She had not so much con-
fidence in the regular way of doing things. She re-
collected that Christ was a great outlaw and inno-
vator in his day, and was put to death for his irregu-
larities.  She thought of Luther ;-what a great

disorganizer he was, and how he barely escaped be-
ing thrust violently out of the world for his auda-
cious onslaught upon the regular way they had in
those days of serving their God.
Mary had begun to see that mankind are much af-
fected by circumstances, and that hardness of heart
resulted fromthe unfavorable conditions under which
its victims receive their being and are educated, -She
thought that it- behooved the Church which assumed
to take so much interest in man's welfare, to -see to
the changing of these conditions, and remove the
causes which produce hardness of heart. She could
read human nature deeply enough to know-that sal-i
vation of soul was a very difficult -thing when there
was no-salvation for the body. The poor -toiler,
crushed in body by his labor,and crushed in spirit by
his cares and apprehensions, could not cultivate spir-
ituality of mind. She stated these difficulties to her
old friend, but it seemed that he could not understand
them. He and she were looking at the matter from
different points of view, and not only so, but-through
different media, and so could not see alike.
The Rev. Mr. Beldam grew very sanctimonious,
and erected-himself into the attitude of a holy and
infallible teacher, and began to inflict a lecture upon
her after this fashion: "1 am very sorry,my dear, o
see that you are getting led astray so young. - Those
impudent women who are making so much ado about
woman's rights, and are meeting in convention to
take charge of temperance and other affairs which
belong to men, are out of their sphere. They are
unsexing -themselves, becoming masculine and irregu-
lar, and I do hope, my dear Mary, that you will have
nothing more to do with them. Look not to human
effort for salvation. It is the Lord that rules amongst
the armies and he alone can deliver.. In the Ghurch
is God's ordained methodof grace, and to thatshould

46                     '00ON '1 Y - AS - IT  IS


*4.

48

SOCIETY AS IT IS

you and all others look for comfort and happiness.
We have no assurance in God's holy Word that there-
is any redemption but by the blood of Christ; and
those who are looking to -human agencies for help
are infidels. Beware of them, , my dear; connect
yourself with some of God's people, observe the pro-'
prieties which society demands of your sex, and you
will be happy."
Mary listened attentively, but could not help feel-
ing some contempt for the affectedness of his man-
ner; though her emotions were those of pity more
than any other. She loved to see people natural,
and disliked affectation in any form, whether in a
professor of righteousness or of fashion.
"As to observing the proprieties which society de-
mards of me," said she, "I am not sure that I can
promise obedience, if at the same time I tm to al-
low society to make its own application of the word
'proprieties.' I choose rather to obey my own judg-
ment and conscience, than bow to the tyrannical spirit
of a corrupt society. I choose to be free in the right
rather than a slave to conventional usage. Society
robs woman of her just and honorable freedom, while
it gives to man the most licentious and unwarranta-
ble liberties, and against this I have the hardihood to
protest most solemnly. Virtue requires a just liberty
for her pathway, while tyranny and licentiousness
are the extremes which lead on either hand to pools
of vice and corruption.
"And as to joining the Church, there are certain
considerations which I must weigh well before I take
such a step. I think we should never voluntarily
place ourselves in any association but such as our
judgment approves as a means of good. If I were
to attach myself to any Church organization I should
have to be assured that its intellectual, moral and spir-
itual infuences are exalting rather than otherwise;

AND AS JT- 4OUIfE.
but when look around me for anything of this kind
I do not discover-it. Tis may be pride or wickede
ness in me,,but I cannot help it.'
Mr. Beldam retorted very promptly, and informed
her in an oracular manner that it was"ahlogdthpr
due to the natural depravity- of the heart, and war
of grace."
"You may be right in. this," said she, "but bef re
I can think so I. must deny all that 1 realize as most
noble in the constitution of ,my being. I feel ihait
would be degrading myself to submit my conseience
to the keeping of the Church, and I cannotresist the
convictions of my nature."
"You are in a state ofnature' saidthe preacher,
"and cannot judge of these things
"You are entitled to your opinion,'' responded Mary,
"but I ;must be allowed to have mine.. When , Ie
the Church erecting costly edifices, and neglecting
the offices of charity; when Isee it selling seats in
its temples to the highest bidder, and excluding the
poor; when I see the aristocratic :member spugning
his poor brother-of the same sect, merely because he
is attired in coarsetaiment and has notithe eans
of display ;._'when; I see "the votaries of the Shash
compassing sea and jald to make proselytes of't
heathen, while they are fostering thatspirit and those
conditions of society ,whikh make heathens amo.ngst
themselves, and I ,might .also say of themseves, I
wonder to myself whether that Chureh.  and its*vo-
taries really know what the regliion of Jesus: '
must seek rather to escape the-inlluence of suh  a
people of 'fgod .assthis. Their 'god  bt yGo4
nor their religion mine?
Here tbhpreacher gqoaneddeey        oed aw
fully demte.  ie  A wauald undvegadly'  d the
current which wassetting-upan hi  bt 'o       ,
He was uado   h   egntiPopower of   e charmn
and was compelled to isten.
5


50              SOCIETY AS IT IS

" I cannot help but feel," continued Mary, "that
the Church is the very embodiment of the spirit of
the world; that fashion, aristocracy and prejudice
reign supreme. It has forsaken the primitive sim-
plicity it exemplified when a positive power in the
world, and allied itself with fashion, wealth and du-
plicity, as the means of self-preservation in an age of
insincerity, show, and mammon. When the Church
lost its primitive virtues it was engulphed in political
favoritism, then in the barbarism of the middle ages,
and now in the corruption engendered of fashion and
commerce.
" Whenever I see the Church providing for the
poor as well as the rich ; and its-devotees clothed in
plainness and sincerity rather than in fashion and du-
plicity; whenever I see them cultivating the chris-
tian graces and worshipping the true God, rather
than cultivating pride and vanity and bowing at the
shrines of idolatry, I shall begin to consider whether
I ought to connect myself with those who claim to
be the-people of God. I never can rely upon the
dead formalities of the Church for my salvation; nor
will woman trust to an organization for her rights
when it not only refuses to recognize them as hers,
but fails to put in active force the means whereby she
is to be elevated. It will not satisfy her to point to
the Church and tell her that therein is to be found
the -God-appointed means of deliverance, as, long as
it trusts to the magic of its name and'its rites. If it
would be relied upon, it must use those means which
under the government of God are calculated to bring
about the -results desired.; 'Until this is done :the faith
and profession of the Church will avail nothing:for
the gnat purposes of humanity. The rights, ceren~o-
nies, andipecia injunctions -of' the Church, are, for
the most part, dead fdraialities; andkndwrifo bsich
by their effects. They produce neither living fruits to

regale, nor living waters o- refreshthea-hunded'
and thirsty World,-they are dead imd s unless.  r
"I have not said all. Iieongregations-wherethere
is less aristocracy, there is more ignorance;'andif pos-
sible, more superstition. Only;lastaSiday1-i eard
a mrniiter, approved of by the Conference, and sent
out to instruct the people, in speaking of the earth-
quake of Catanea, which he said tookplate jn sl65,
refer to)aomething the historian said;which historian,
he venttred-to presume, by way, perhapsofshow-
ing his learning to the people,zas Josephust -An-
other one, not long before, spoke of' Ton Paine-and
Voltaire who wrote in the Dark Ages' These are
samples. When -the Official power of the Ohurih,in
the first place, tolerates such ignorance, and when-in
the next place, congregations can endure it, I am not
disposed to think very'highly of either. It sees to
me that such Churies, such congregations, and sach
greachers rely too much upon the miraculous infusion
of grace, and not enough upon the means  hreby
God has guaranteed unto his chosen the qualities 'of
teacher. If those who make clerical pretensions
should give us-'assurance- that .they a re the weak
things of this world, chosen to confound thewjse,,I
should not object to any defciencyrin secular knwl-
edge they might casually betray';but-so far fromahis
being the casethey seem to be as weak in reason and
righteousness and in history and science. There was
a time when certain spiritual teacher -were' ied
with the Holy Ghost, and spoke whth other tongues;
now, to my certain knowledge',there-are naapy vho
make spiritual pretensions that cannot' ipeak Si'h
their own. Theirgrammar and rhetoic eedecide
ly nondescript, arnd pretty hardto'edure.
"But this is not all. There ism bitternesad hate
in the-Church- Thesthe  ects show i  heir to-
duct to dach other  Th1 is   F'ing otesee tt @wtlM"4

AND      4' , f' S1       i xl- BE.


AND AS IT SHOD  BE.      .3

cultivates these unchristian qualities in the mindsof
the teachers, and thence they are infused into the
people, to become abiding traits of character. They
are then at hand on all occasions to be used against
whatever is distasteful to prejudice.
" There are a few reformers in the country, who
think, speak, and live without subservience to popu-
lar opinion, and so have become so very obnoxious to
some of their neighbors who love the slavery of sect
and dislike freedom in others. -.These have not the
mental power to cope with the 0 infidels,' as they-call
them, and so they get a favorite preacher of theirs,
who also practices law and sometimes runs foroffice,
to go out and oppose 'infidel doctrines,' and if pos-
sible overthrow infidel influence.
"I heard one of his sermons, and if he has much of
the grace with which God blesses his chosen, I should
want to have as little of it as possible. .1 mustihow-
ever, do him the justice to say, that part of his ser-
mon was really good, better than generally comes from
orthodox pulpits. It was rational and instructive-
was a pretty good digest of some of the reform- doc-
trines in their bearings upon man's relations:to truth.
But then' the infidels' had to be disposed of, and this
was done in a very summary way.-
"«He does not know what 'their views are, but as
he has learned that they are. not orthodox, he thinks
they. must be something bad. He takes this for
granted, and is not choice in his terms. He is a law-
yer, as I said, and does not care to be very consistent
in his logic, for it is not his purpose, at all to.convince
the reformers of error, but. merely to excite preju-'
dice against them, or rather deepen the prejudice
which already exists, and thus utterly destroy their
heretical influence..
"But beside this, he betrays very palpably another
motive, and that is the conciliating, of a little, of the

popular good will for himself; for, as ,Lai4 heruns
for office, and asrmyfriends are known to behere.
tics and are unpopular, he could hardly talie a s:rer
way of getting ito the good graces of:inany than-to
'whip the infidels.' Like the -Tost ofen, wed4as
we learn fromhdstory and experience, lay the ghosts
of .cnscien'e. by appealing to heaen, so, he i. loiid
and, eloquent in protesting his ow-ndisintrestednes,
and calling upon God to witness.the purity of hijs
motives. ,Charity would bid us hope that. he is self-
deceived, but.we judge 'the tree _by its fruits, as the
Scripture says.
"He aims   blows more particularlyWa cetain
individual am ngst the reformers; for, as he knows,
and as the people feel,-the, clergy dobe thinking--
what little is done-for nearly all in the Qhurch.;--
one thinks for -many, and so they suppose it is with
reformers,-and oftencbarge upon oneof their
ber more than he will .have to answer for. Theyfoi.-
get-never knew in fact-that it is one 'of.rthe charae-
teristics .ofa reformer that he thinks for. himself that
it is the practical assumption of this very prerogative
of his manhood that has broken, the, chains. of eet
and party, and set him free. 'But however this may
be, it is all one with the man that pleads law and
preaches.
"When I heard him he spoke.,f believing-such
doctrines as 'he supposes 'the infidels. of the nigh-
borhood hold, and then declared: I pity in myvery
soul and loathe the thing that, would do it.' This
was said with much bitterness, which.shoed that he
felt all he said., It~semed to pleasetheoweligius
people in particular; and the more grace any one
appeared to;have, the greater.seemed tho be the please
ure. .But 2L should say, injustice-tv sorge that'they
thoughtit.a. poor way to serve the Gd ogfLove;
but these are pnot.mgh bl sed gin;aspiritudway.

SOCIETY AS IT IS


AND AS IT eSbiIn SE.

"Subsequently, this same maan -and I don't know
why I should have any delicacy about giving his narne,
titles and all--it is the Rev. William Coldines, Esq.!
Well, as I'was. going to observe, subsequently he re-
peated a sirmilar invective, omitting the word' thing;'
and instead of 'pity' and loathe,' using 'abhor' and
0 detest.' " He spoke this time -more coolly and with
such prefatory remarks as showed the thing to have
been premeditated.
" On a funeral occasion he once spoke of those who
did not accept the orthodox notions of the resurrec-
tion, as 'mushroom heads.' This, said in his bitter,
domineering way, I thought would falliarshly on the
ears of mourners; but perhaps they had a living, and
therefore practical faith, in the doctrine of conquering
nature by grace.' And then at the graveyard, he
addressed the people, and in the course of his re-
marks, referred to the great number present-it was
- Sunday-as proof of the respectability of the parties
-concerned ;-the deceased was late the wife of one
they call a preacher, and otherwise well connected.
This remark revealed more than the speaker designed
it should. It opened up the secret chamber of his
soul, and, in connection with other facts, betrayed the
leading idea of the man; or, as a waggish friend of
mine observed, 'It dashed up the platter and showed
the filthy contents of the brazen bowl.' Just think
of Jesus boasting the respectability of himself and
followers ! -The respectable in those days were the
Pharisees and Hypocrites, and who knows but such
is too much the case in our times?
"I could give other examples. It is an easy mat-
ter to be a brave man in the pulpit, where no chance
for reply is given, but some, even with this advantage,
have -not the hardihood to attack 'infidels' in their
presence, in this violent way, but do so amongst the
faithful, with the design, no doubt, ofkeeping them so

I was told but latflyhf  inron ofthis ki1 heard
by none but 'the members,' which' contined1a-
guage too abusive and vulgarfor a man to useahy;
where, to say nothing of -a servant of-God in G s
sanctuary. My inform antwas' shocked, at the tiipe
with such a malignant-outporing of what wasin The
heart; but being in error then, he looked' updht asa
weakness of the .manrather than a necessity ofthe
system. I say he was in error then  but since- that,
for merely attending a spiritual circlewlth a view to
candid investigation, he was assailed ifn an uiibrother.
ly manner by those who called hit- brother.' then
he began -to think, and now the: bonds areo brohkn,
the scales off his eyes, and he is-out of the Church
-by his -own good will. It 'sin this way that the
Church poisons itself with its own venrm
" We can hardly go to Church witifoit obtaining
evidence in, some shape of the vindictiveness -of those
who assume to be the followers of the meek and qw.
ly Jesus. I was once at a quarterly meeting held in
the grove, God's iving and only temple. The je
siding elder was there as usual, and iim illustrating the
mercy and 'forbearance of God, he said that it-far
surpassed anything of the kind which belonged to
the hard heart of man. He went on to prove this
by referring 'to- the fact that a brother of-his who
had been down the Mississippi -iiver, had before so
'outdone' with the wickedness of sl.ve ow nersnd
slave drivers,- thatafter his return, he declared -hf1
sermon at Xenia, that it was wetlenough that himself
was not the Almighty, for if he-was he wouldassored-
ly send all those fellows to helL  He6wouldnot yevn
give them a chance to repent. He seeded t be:en-
raged not so much at theSifl as at the siterss  The
elder did not think the expi-ession was nid
the way, but' some;"who heard the sor   heim ,
did. Butl ioul=zeot helvthinking tat1fg frot

-                                   r At   rr   18


AND ASaSIT SHOULD, BE.

56               soCIETE AS IT is

illustrating the great mercy of God, he betrayed the
revengefl ness of himself and brother. If the spirit
of Christ be love and meekness, it would seem that
those have but little of it who betray such bitterness
and enmity to erring brethren.
"Be assured, my good friend, that I take no delight
in recounting the errors and shortcomings of either
classes or individuals, for in their sins we all suffer,
and I regret these things for their sake as well as
ours. But painful as this duty is, there are occasions
when it must be done, and then it is notonly weak
but wrong to suppress a candid statement of the facts.
I have spoken frankly in my own defense, and have no
apology to make. And in conclusion, you will permit
me to say that while the Church finds it convenient to
employ such teachers, and the professors of religion
find it pleasant to receive such effusions from the pul-
pit, I cannot find it in my soul to form any closer
connection with them."
The Rev. Mr. Beldam was astonished at the free-
dom and power of Mary's manner, and felt himself
utterly disarmed. He did not find it convenient-to
stay longer, but made an excuse and left with the
promise to call again. After recovering a little he
found himself mentally repeating: "Caught a Tar-
tar," "masculinity in petticoats," " virago," and such
choice epithets. But although vanquished, he was
not the man to stay vanquished-under such circum-
stances.  Mary had been too much for him in,
matters of theology, but might not be invincible
otherwise, and as a long face had not served him he
would try a bland one. He, discovered under her
ponderous intellect a woman's heart, and he made
some calculation upon this. -He was as .well versed
in gallantry as. theology, if not better, and valued
himself on Wittle private.conquests of this kind, riore
than upos such as pertained to, the glory of his Mas-

ter's kingdom. He did so, perhaps, because it was
an affair of more personal interest, and excused
himself with the reflection that, we all have our little
weaknesses. As to Mary's .case, something whis-
pered him that it was a doubtful one, but thiscould
only be known by trying, and so he laid his p1anis
In the interview already had, he was not more
astonished at Mary than she was at herself. Her
intellect was much excited, and, in the early part
of her discourse- especially, she uttered, thou hts
which had never crosssed her mind before. They
came she did not know how, but she felt their truth
and spoke them with the assurance of one inspired.
The facts were just as she stated tlem, but she had
never seen so clearly and widely their, bearings nod
felt sostrongly the force of the principles they
illustrated.
She was a believer in spiritualism, but never sup-
posed herself, a medium for the influx of thought,
though she knew herself tQ be one for the rappings
and it was not till afterwards that she realizedaher
indebtedness in this conversation to aid from a higher
sphere, The mental conditions requisite were ac-
tive and not passive,,so.that they were not affected
by .the -uncongenial presenceof the minister; Her
inspiration-was that of genius.
I should have said that what immediately Id to the
conversation on theology and.womaswrongawere
some remarks made on.the spiritual manibstations,
about which=therewas considerable of excitement at
the time in the neighborhood. -in thecourse of these
remarks, Mary gave: the, minister to understadthai
she was a medium. The good.man, f courserre-
monstrated, and having become warmed up wktbis
subjectfinally told her:
"If yu have any carst 4pll for the re tsiof
aI


AND AS IT- SOULI BE.          t

otrttY   As IT is

your family, let me implore you to give up this folly.
Now let me tell you, one year will not pass, if you
keep on with this stuff, till your reputation will be
forever ruined. Almost without an exception, those
who dabble in such trash, are infidel, lecherous fel-
lows. If you live a few years it will make you
blush as much to hear of receiving communications
from spirits as to be accused of sheep-stealing: Will
you not pause in this witch-hunting, and give your-
self to reason? There is, to my mind, nothing more
disgusting and utterly loathsome, than this new form
of infidelity."
I need hardly say that Mary was not pursuaded
by this pathetic appeal; or that, as we- have seen,
she convinced her monitor that she was somewhat
given to reason.
After Mr. Beldam left, Mary went over to see an
acquaintance who was a member of his congregation,
and whose name way Rachael. She was received
very kindly, and way not there long till she saw. an
d ladyrwho was also a member of the same Church,
-coming that way with a vessel in her hand.
"There, now," said Rachael, "comes that old
thing again. She must not have good milk this time.
Jiony, you must give her sour milk."
By this time the old lady was at the door with a
light heart, for she was sure of a warm welcome, as
she knew from past experience. She rapped, and
Rachael opened the door and exclaimed:
.*' Why, dear sister Polly, is that you? how glad I
in to see you-take a chair-how Are they all at
houme-you have come for some more milk for that
dr little pet-go, Jlnny, get the pitcher and bring
some4W bring good milk."
Jiar understood it, and ot "last nights milk."
Old mother Polly accepted: It very gratefully, and
tstwdtasitb   slight stop* thiking of ht little

grandchild, and thanking God   for such a kind
neighbor. But when she got home she found that
Jinny had made a mistake. She returned the next
day, and when she informed Raphael of the accident,
the kind, woman was confounded that such a thing
should happen in her family, and expressed a great
deal of regret:
"O, these careless girls-I am the most vexed with
them-they can do nothing right-4il declare,10i. they
don't torment the life out of one. Jinny, you must
mind what you are about another time-l charged
you in particular to get sweet milk-if it, isn't
too bad."
Jinny was a sensible girl, and might have been
amused, at such deceitfulness, had it not inflicted
gross -injustice upon herself.. As it was she felt
deeply wronged, and though she suffered. in the
same way many a time, she found it hard .to get
used to. The old lady seemed to be as innocent of
what was behind the curtains as could be, and'Jinny
stole a glance at her as much as to say: "Old folks
don't know everything." But she was a servant; and
so had to hold her peace. 'She was glad to get em-
ployment. at' living wages, even if she had to be
made the scapegoat of other people's sins.
Mary was witness to part of this farce, and the
rest she had from a reliable source.'- She felt sad to
contemplate such corruption in the human heart, and
especially in a human heart which the Church pro-
fessed to have regenerated, and had now under its
sanctifying influence. She almost concluded that
the Church did not hold to the doctrine of totalde.
pravity without reason. And this impression was
strengthened by. the remark- of an old mother, iot in
Israel, but in the fashionable world, that she= conn
mended her Sons for visiting houses of prostitute
and associating elsewhere wii lewd women asit

I'


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.           61

made gentlemen of them and qualified them for
society.
Mary treasured up these facts. They may seem
to be small niatters in themselves, but- they have a
wonderful significance, and she saw it. There are
difficulties in society and the'Church which seem to
need explanation, and Mary was preparing, a dish of
these wherewith to regale her clerical friend -on
the occasion of his next visit, should he insist on the
soundness of -society and orthodoxy. But the holy
man made no occasion for anything of the kind.
The next time he came Charles was there, and Mary
in her Bloomer dress, and he was so mortally offend-
ed that he turned round contemptuously and left.
Like a respectable man, he showed that he had a
care for his reputation. He had lamentable stories
to tell about what kind of a young lady Mary
Hopewell was:
"1A masculine, impudent, saucy, precocious, gauk
of a girl. She had a good deal of intellect, but that
will only serve to sink her deeper into-the lake of
unquenchable fire, unless she .speedily- repents and
turns to the Lord. She reads' The Lilly,' is a stick-
ler for woman's rights, infidel in her notions, and
like other outlaws and disorganizers of her sex, she
is imitating the male attire."
Here he sighed deeply, or rather groaned, looked
demure, and said: " I knew it was wrong, but I
could not help looking at her trowsers."
Thus ended the second visit. As Napoleon the
First used to say, "there's but a step between the
sublime and the ridiculous." How delusive and vain
are all earthly hopes 1 and the Rev. Mr. Beldam
might have preached a sermon to himself on- the
penchant and puisance of luck to upset the best
laid schemes. His petty vanity, in connection with
large amativeness and combativeness, made a fool
of him, first one way and then another.

It is but meet that I should give a little of the subse-
quent history of this man. His wife was still in the-
East, and when he went for her, a Miss Gass, who
had been teaching in the village, and wad a member
of his Church,. made the tour with him. In the
vicinity of Cincinnati he .introduced her as Mrs.
Beldam, and at night they were shown to a room
with two beds in it. They remained here 'about a
month, and- then -went on- 'o Rhode-Island, where
Mr. Beldam found his wife and Miss Gass her friends.
Before her departure from the West;she had entered
into a matrimonial engagement with a Mr. Waitson,
also a teacher, and after her return from the East it
was consummated with the usual solemnities.
Everything went, on finely, and the happy hus-
band was rejoicing in such a prospect as one in his
situation loves to contemplate. But his astonishment
and chagrin are more easily imagined than expressed,
when he came to find that the realization of his
hopes did not require the usual number of moons by
three or four.
The divine who was so shocked at that sight of a
Bloomer dress, was thought to be the man. She
declared herself utterly ignorant of -any clue, to the
mystery, but could not deny the coincidence, and
ventured to suggest that Mr. Beldam must have
accomplished his nefarious purposes, by throwing
her into a magnetic trance.
This brought Mr. Beldam .into rather bad order
with his friends, and as he was altogether too pro-
slavery in his sentiments for that latitude, he went
South and located in. Memphis. He had not been
there long till he was found in company with a
coarse German harlot, and for this -the Church cen-
sured him as impudent I
After all this, as might be supposed, Mary.Hope-
well was not sorry that she had not been proselyted

60              SOCIETY AS IT IS


r2                  SOCIETY AS IT IS

under his ministration. When quite young, and
Mr. Beldam doubtless purer than in after life, she
had formed quite an attachment for him, as I said,
but when they met again she did not like his mag.
netism. With her own invulnerable chastity and
force of character, she triumphed completely over
the impure influence of his presence, but she knew
full well that there was something not right about
the man, and she was glad that her Bloomer dress
had frightened him away.
Mary knew well that there were many good peo.
ple in the Church, both amongst laity and clergy.
She considered them exemplary Christians, and
loved them as she did all sincere upright people ; but
she thought that she knew equally well that they
were not what they were by any virtues which the
Church was instrumental in imparting, but rather
in spite of its vicious influences. Though it is but
just to say that she held the Church to exercise a
restraining influence, which results in a kind of
superficial moralism; but so far as the culture of
pure, undefiled religion, or what is the same, the
highest aspirations of the spiritual man, are con-
cerned, the Church is a nullity ;.-it is worse, it is
a dead weight upon the upward tendencies of hu-
manity, and so Mary thought it. Those in the'Church
who live true to their God-given nature, do so in
consequence of the force of principle acting upon,
or, I should say, within minds so fortunate in their
constitution as to move triumphantly by the inher-
ent energies of truth. But such minds she could see
were too few, and not sufficiently influential in the
Church to give it completion.  Mary concluded,
therefore, to bide her time and await the develop-
ments of the future ; and these she felt assured were
about to do something more for the redemption and
happiness of the race than the Church is aiming at.

Noa-Whe one krQws whahe 1w:uttersJo ejstik
able, he ,should make no apology; and ag  ' nal_
for the contents of this elhpper. Btt. as the d Aaeail a
in given may to somennd,. seem too severe, it is.but
proper to state that those things which might be  er4
most objectionable as fiction, are not.fiction ut fact.
A. The chronological bl nders, broadyas ley are,:wee
actually made'; and I was amused, but two weekrafter,
to hear a good brother speak of the man who alluded to
Josephus as writing about "the earthquake of Catanea,
in 1652," as educated and well qualified for the ministry.
2. The narrative in the Coldines case is true, and the
words quoted are those of the speaker. 3. The state-
ments in reference to the abusive sermon in private are
veritable.  No quotations are given  because, the dis-
closure was not made till eighteen months afterwards,
and then the precise words could not be recalled. 4. The
illustration from the Xenia sermon, was made substan-
tially as stated in the text. 5. The language, hard as it
is, in reference to the spiritual manifestations and their
abettors, are not fiction, whatever the manifestations may
be. It is the same,. with slight verbal alterations adapt-
ing it to the connection, which was found in a letter
"written by a minister of New York City," to the brother
of a lady who is a medium, and the second and third sen-
tences have reference to her. All the hard words are
found in the original. 6. Mary actually heard sister
Rachael first give covert orders to the maid one way, and
then open ones the other, as stated in the text. 7. The
mother's commending prostitution in her sons is sadly
true. And it is sad to prostitute the good word "true" in
such a connection. 8. The exclamation about looking
at the trowsers, was actually made by a preacher, even
to the prefatory remarks of knowing it was- not right.
9. The case of Miss Gass is well known in a certain
city in the West. It is given in the text as repeated
by a friend and correspondent, who resided in the
city at the time of its occurrence. 10. As to the Mem-
phis harlot ; this was circulated in the' papers but a
very few years, since, and commented on as an authen-

AND, A4, IT, - S 4pg      , J3E"

s
k,-Fp
.,t}
^   1°
.  "
,'+:
h-  .
3t
t JJ 4 "   _
f
i  t F


04               SOCIETY AS IT IS

tio item of news. It differed from the statement herein
given in, notbing biut the fact that two preachers were
involved instead of one. Perhaps they were trying to
convert her ; but in that case should not have been con-
dened for impudence. 'The Onderdonk school, though
not ostensibly defined as a distant ecclesiastical body,A                        E
has its characteristics, nevertheless, and practical sup-               CHAPTER
porters.S
MARY AND THE SCHOOLS.
Immediately after her adventure with the preacher
Mary found a vacant school near by, and upon appli-
cation obtained it. The district was a larg one,and
she employed an assistant. Several of the pupils were
quite well advanced, and Mary was enabled to form
such classes as she could take an interest in. She
found a few liberal parents, and succeeded in getting
a class in Phonetics. She had one also in Combe's
Constitution of Man; and another,-of young ladie
exclusively-in Physiology.
- The latter became so much interested in the sub.
ject of their studies, that she prevailed on them to
-    take the Water-Cure Journal as the means of acqui
ing additional information in regard to the health of
body and mind. They were all, without exceptions
endowed with rare good sense, 'and gave earnest
heed to Mary's instructive teachings. "They soon
learned that long draggle-tailed dresses operated
against the wearer; and as to the comparative bea-
ty of the short and long -skirts, after they became
used to seeing it, they took a fancy to the style of
Mary's Bloomer. But judgment sustained the fancy,
and doubtless had much to do in creating it, sinie
use, health, and beauty go together in the matter of
personal comfort, as they learned from physiology
and the Water-Cure Journal.  n short, the girls do-
termined to have Bloomer dresses.


66                SOCIETY AS IT IS

This their prudent 'mothers, who very naturally
wished their daughters to be proper, did not approve.
They threw all the blame upon Mary and the Jour-
nal. They conceived a great aversion to the " pic-
tures" in the latter, and did not much like the "read-
ing." Physiology and the Water-Cure were suspect-
ed of being what they actually ought not to be--at
least for young ladies to study; and so the vigilant old
dames met in solemn conclave, and after due delib-
eration resolved to ask advice of the " Doctor," who,
being a man of education, age, and experience, un-
derstood these things, and knew what was right.
Well, Dr. Pilpepper, * a professional character of
great celebrity, was duly notified, and upon making
a brief diagnosis of the case, understood it perfectly,
He has no high opinion of those who do not adminis-
ter and are not administered to with orthodox drugs
in the regular way, and as might be supposed, he dis-
liked the reading in the Journal and the looks of the
ugly pictures as heartily as the old ladies themselves.
"And as to Physiology," said he, "it is not the thing
for young ladies to study;" and his looks were signifi-
cant and conclusive. The case was prescribed for and
the Doctor left. The treatment was to be heroic; but
there was no faltering. The numbers of the Journal
already received were made to disappear mysterious-
ly, and Uncle Sam brought no more to the post office.
The teaching of Physiology was stopped, the books
were anathematized, and I have no doubt put in con-
finement, for they were not seen afterwards in public.
a The author is not so inconsiderate and unjust as to insinuate
that all who use drugs in the practice of the healing art, are op.
poed-to the dress reform, and the teaching of popular Physiology.
He knows that many are not, and to such as are liberal ansd pro-
gressive, he does honor by a necessity of his nature. But though
some are thus liberal, he cannot be blind to the fact that the great.
est conservatives and bigots are to be found among the most ortho-
dox, whether in the schools of theology or medicine.  .

The principal causes thus. removed, nogdoubt was;en,
tertained that the young ladies would immediately get
well of the Bloomer fever. But no ; the cases were
desperate ones-aggravated and prolonged by :the
contagion of Mary's presence, and the too close prox-
imity of the pestilential atmosphere of one another.
As the symptoms were not mitigated in the least,
but rather aggravated, as A said, the patients them-
selves made an appeal to the good sense and affec-
tion of their papas, and prevailed:on them to doctor
on the Homaeopathic principle, though not altogether.
in Homopathic doses. The dresses were got.
The girls were glad enough.; but soon -found them-
selves sneered at and persecuted till they almost
wished, that the new costume " was in Guinea," as
one of the old ladies was in the habit of saying. .. But
Mary was heroic, could herself stand against the cur-
rent of popular odium -,and assist others to do so.
And besides, a few sensible young men in the vil-
lage and vicinity, with Charles at their head, whose
imaginations were chaste and afetions, pure, ape
proved of the movement from the first, as ona de-
manded by health, sense, and decency. They came
to the assistance ,of their sisters and friends, and en-
deared themselves to Mary and her pupils by ,their
timely encouragement and kind regards. The Bloorn-
ers triumphed.
Charles made some observations during ths con-
flict which added to the stock of his philosophy.
Whenever the sight of a Bloomer caused smirksand
grimaces, and drew forth low remarks and vulgar
jests from any man, married single, he soonlearned
by recalling past observation upon the individual, aid
watching him closely at the time, to know - that it
would be unsafe for one of the other sex who valued
her purity to trust herself to such company,:eve if
the skirts of her dress. were ever so long. Mary, too,

AND,. AS IT. SHOULD BE*


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

observed that the most uncertain of her own sex de-
rided the new style of dress just in proportion to the
anxiety they felt for their own respectability; while
those puffed up with vanity and false pride showed
a bitterness of opposition measured by the littleness
of their intellects and the deceitfulness of their hearts.
Those of both sexes with generous natures, pure af-
fections, and expanded intellects, were respectful ii
their behavior and approved of the new style.
But Charles and Mary were set to thinking in a
different direction. They saw how difficult it is for
persons with the best motives to carry out their
views in a practical way; especially if the practical
conflicts with established usage, however vicious. It
can only be done, as they discovered, by braving a
storm of slander and persecution, and witnessing an
exhibition of the ugliest pull-down passions of unde-
veloped humanity. It is painful to contemplate such
ebullitions of vileness; and there are but few who
can withstand the storm. They alone can do so
who are self-poised above the regions of sense and
sordidness. But even with these it was disagreeable,
and such was the experience of Charles and Mary.
We love the interchange of sympathy with our fel-
low men; but when the streams of mutual good feel-
ing cease to flow, and still more when torrents of
enmity and opposition rage against us, do we feel
the want of that source of happiness which arises
from the kind regards of those around us, and have
but to look to the sympathy above us, and that which
is before us. The fraternal regard of our brethren
in the flesh is present and tangible, and there are few
who do not consider it paramount, and none but are
happier therewith when it is not incompatible with
heaven and the future.
All the trouble of conflicting tastes and usages
arises in the first place from ignorance, and the intol-

_y
Fs
J
!t
'.  12 ~ i
J"ten S
tx
3
r    Le
i
t

erance which grows out:of it; and in the next, from
the indiscriminate huddling together qf all sorts ot
people in the same community. The liberal and ad-
vancing are thus cut off from sympathy, and so far
as it is possible, put in torture by the ignorant and
conservative; though it is gratifying ,to know that
they suffer far less than their persecutors suppose.
.The same spirit obtains still that did in the rack and
dungeon days of the Romish Inquisition; and though
the racks and dungeons are removed, ytthere are
the daggers of the eye, the venom-of the tongue, and
enginery of social oppression; and these are used.
Charles and Mary-had been studying the -Hai'mo-
nial Philosophy, and were, well pleased with the doc-
trine therein taught concerning the-next sphere. No
clashing of sects, parties,- castes, and- classes; but-the
kindred associate together in love and harmony,-how
glorious ! And then they thought of the prayer:
May it be done on earth as it-is in heaven ;-=-and they
prayed that this good time would speedily come.
4 But," said Charles, "we must act. Why might
not the kindred yield to the laws of social attraction,,
locate together, and enjoy- each other. Espeia1y,
why might not the friends of radical 'and thorough
reform come out from their present isolation; co-op-
erate for the good. of themselves and others, go up
into the mountains and hilltops, unite their torches
and flare them overvalley and plain. Inunion there
is strength,-and they would domore good. - Incon-
genial association there -is harmony and, happiness,
and if the more advanced but willed it, heaven fight
begin on earth." Mary, who was indeed -a seeress,
saw at that moment a vision of the future and .he
"times," and bade Charles be of good cheer: "It:is
for us," said she.
But to return -:to the- troubles -about the school.
Mary's friends were. in the minorIty, and the ~clanar

68

SOCIETY AS IT IS

69

t

\


AND AS I  SUOTLD' ~BE.

against her as a teacher was becoming vociferous.
The triumph of the new style of dress only increased
the dissatisfaction with many, and they gave their
efforts a new direction. Some of the more knowing
ones had been looking with an inquisitive eye into
Combe's Constitution of Man, and made the discovery
therein that Mary was teaching infidelity in her
school. The preacher Coldines was invited, and
with a full determination to put a stop to such man-
ifestations of depravity, he delivered himself of a ser-
imon which was designed to wake up the righteous
to an effort in behalf of religion itself.
The Phonetic class was doing well, and the parents
of the children were well pleased with their progress;
hut the class was a great bugaboo. The teacher
was going to corrupt the language and spoil the
children for the attainment of correct English. She
was transferring pupils back to the dark ages, and
making barbarians of them. Some of the more vigil-
ant were on the qui vive for a trick in some way, and
sure enough they detected it. Both the principal
and her assistant were paying more attention to the
objectionable classes than to the others! Complaints
were forthwith made, and the neighborhood put into
a perfect ferment.  The current set too strongly
against her, and before the six months had expired
Mary was compelled to give up her school.
But she was not sorry for her own sake. She had
some warm friends, and their disinterested sympa-
thy was to her a prelibation. on earth of what is to
be hereafter in heaven. Those who were not her
friends were so broad in their prejudices, and nar-
row in their souls, that, under any circumstances,
there could have been but few points of sympathy
between them, and she cared but little fob their abuse.
She was in the morning of an existence which is to
last forever, and she did not allow herself to be seri-

I '

ously disturbed by the untoward events of a day.
She realized with-an ever-present consciousness-the
magnitude of her destiny,as one made in the image
of God, and was noble in. the realization..
But she did care for the children who were sub-
jected to such vitiating influences. For youthful be-
ings, with life before~ them and a long immortality,
thus to have their tender minds seared with, preju-
dice, and corrupted with falsehood and the evil ex-
ample of ignorant and sordid parents, was a sad thing
for Mary's pure and enlightened mind to content-
plate; but it was even so.
"True education," thought Mary," is the sole
remedy for such wrongs; but-how is true education
ever to work redemption, when it is repelled by such
barbarian hands? But ignorance and wrong cannot
always triumph, and that is my solace. 1 have been
driven from a field of useful labor, but myssuccessor,
though true to his "duty, may meet':with: better for-
tune. I have made a little beginning, andthe stream
must widen and deepen until even there it will tiow
a beautiful. river of knowledge and. trnith. I thank
God that I have had the energy and moral 0o0rage
to do what'I have-done, and-though tinen evile'ame
and curse me,l lave a proud consciousness within
which is worth more ttan worlds:" And Mary wept
with aninward joy which 'was too deep for'any other
utterance. O 'there are beautiful things:in earth,
and humanity is not all depraved. Innocencepmaiden
or matron, is-,beautiful, but when crowned withrintel-
lect and high moral purpose it is more thanwbeauti-
ful, and earth and man everywhere shall yebgladden
in its presence.
Shortly after th e preahing of-the sermon just al-
luded to, Maryand a friend went tospend "n eve-
ning withenof her employers. - hhappened tobe
" meeting tie," and May and her;iend ad; not

70              SOCIETY AS IT 18


AND AS iT SHOULD' BE.

once thought of this, as they seldom attended the
preachings and did not think to calculate for the
habits of others. But when they got there, they
were soon made aware-of their mistake.
"Have you come," said their host, " tokeep my
wife away from meeting?"
" No indeed,- we have not," said Mary, taken a
good deal by surprise.
" I understand," continued he," that you reform-
ers want to exercise a great deal of influence, on the
plea that it is your duty to propagate your infidel
faith.
" We do think it our duty, and also our -interest,
socially and spiritually," said Mary, "to teach what
we deem truth ; but we are not of that class of phi-
* losophers who think that the end justifies the means;
and so we take no underhand, indirect ways of pros-
elyting our neighbors; but what we are, we are
boldly, and ask odds of none. I fear that you are
judging us by your own standard. It is well known
that the abettors of the popular faiths are at especial
* pains to keep their children and -friends away from
the teachings of liberal doctrihies, lest they might be-
come infected with the contagion of infidelity. By
such a course they betray a want of confidence in
the power of their own dogmas over the human
mind ; and hence the means to which they resort are
such-as bigots and tyrants must always use to keep
down the native aspirations of the soul. As direct
moral means are powerless for so unworthy an end,
they have recourse to such as are indirect and
physical.
"I say we are no part nor parcel of such a class
of religionists. We have full confidence in the pow.
er of truth over the human mind, and believing that
we, have truth, we are perfectly willing that our" dis-
ciples shall hear the reasons for any- faith, however

I

different from o~ts. We can afford to b cha igble,
liberal, and tolerant."
"And so can we,".said her neighbor,;whoa4uij
illustrated in so very practical a way the legiimate
result ofhis own -misanthropic sfait, -Ali gQ4
book says that the greatest of Virtues is charity, ai
of all people on earthwe are the  tjogan
" As to the precepts of'the.New,  etan'til
pity," said Mary with a signifcant  tfoiggloo
"'tis a pity that: those who accept- thenm y piofe-
sion, do not showthen forth to -the wold-by-works
of righteousness. Arnd as to. he. toleration ,of the g
sects, you must berJiberal. enough to allow rie to
think, otherwise. Their opposition t. echhe
neutralizes any desire for religiousoppressiowhich
might obtain, and, under other circumstances, rien
into action; but their faith, I must think, ngeessrily
intolerant.. They hold to the total depravity 9fth-
human heart, and that to it nothing is more obnox
ious than truth. They.hold further, that if truth, asin
volved in the mans of grace,ispot accepte4th soul
is lost forever Now, since the heart i  -so deprayed
and hates truth, it follows, that;, if anthing opposed
to the system of faith which is presunriedo teen:r cgeall
essential truth,, is tolerated, the work of the defil is
thereby promoted and his: kingdom people ed- k dc
think that such doctrines make ita matter of
science, with those who-receive them, to.be g
ant; but I am glad that. all - politie-l mranifestations
of the spirit is paralized by the mutual antaonism of
the sects.
"On the other hand, we hold that man ia essp
tially a being of spiritual aspirations-and must ha
a religion. This aspiration ia in facttoe ce
ment of the soql--around it-l4 oter oaste---iii
the motive power of aiL spiritual. progress;  i
the individual or the race. Juttbhe rnaestatio
7

72

SOCIETY AS IT 18

7,


AND 'A5 IT SHOULD DE        ~75

of this religious instinct are very different, according
to the different stages of mental 'development to
which they pertain. Pagan worshippers bow down
to material images of their own make; some, indeed,
to idal- gods -of' their own- imagining,-and this is
the case with the sects. Their Protean god is not
the God of the universe; but we greatly prefer that
they should worship him than give no expression to
the religious instinct. To attempt to deprive them
of their god, or by any means keep them away from
their sanctuaries, is far from our intentions.
t   I will say, that what we do aim at is to develop
the mind out of its ignorance and materialism, so that
it may see the undeveloped character of its religion,
and adopt such 'means of grace' as are more in har-
mony with the attributes of God and man, better
calculated to gratify the spiritual aspirations of the
soul, and lead it forward in the path of its destiny.
We cannot 'engraft our views upon an undeveloped
mind. We cannot, if we would, take away from it
the object of its worship. It spontaneously creates
its own god, and could not by any means-see where.
hf lay the efficacy of our iconoclasm. It cannot en-
ter the sanctuary of our temple. This is a moral im-
possibility, and if wrong, charge God, and not us,-
he has made it so. The highest aspirations do not
inspirit an uncultivated mind. The germ is there,
bat it is undeveloped. Until, therefore, others can
enter our temple; we are not so unjust and cruel as
to shut them out from others.
" I am sorry we called at such a time; had we
thought of your meeting we should not have come;
bit be assured we did not once think of it.' And as
we' would consider it wrong to step between you
and your 'God, we shall withdraw. Hoping that
'ou wilhhink better of us and other reformers, we
kindly bid you good bye."

14

:Her neighbor ttod like a stock. He Wasen-
chained by the nragic of Mary's  agnetism, and
responded "good bye," without knowingthat he did
so. He would gladly halve dispensed with" her gle-
ture, but after the one remark, he lost all power of
utterance, and was compelled to listen toevery word.
The ideas,though he could not appreciate thermall,
seemed to enter his mind, as he said afteweddy
some kind of sorcery, and theyamadasuch-an.im-
pression thathe never got rid of it.
Mary and her companion went homeward 1ess
gaily than they 'came 'and it was'sometime before
the silence was broken. At length Mary said,
" How sad that immortal minds are thus buried
up in the rubbishof the old theologies! And  yhat
wrongs they unwittingly endure! Evenordinary
penetration and brotherly charity, seem to forsake
them. They become suspicious of others and im-
pugn their motives. This wrong obtains-rn~ae, if
possible, with priest than layman.- it was. Coldines'
sermon lastSunday that has. done the mischief 'for
our friend. 'Faith' prepared the soil, and then when
the seed of brother-hating, which was, sown ' broad.
cast,' fell thereon, it took root, and has-already
brought forth, though mnot ' an hundred fold' 'by 'nuy
means, yet scripturally enough, after its own kind.'
But as St. Simon said, ' The future is ours.'"
After the brother had come fairly to hidielf and
considered the matter overhe sat down andad-
dr'essed a note to Maiybegging pardon for wkat he
had done, asking her to, return at her ealiest con-
venience, and promising:that:sha. should be perfectly
welcome, .Thi done he continued:
"Without wishing toget up anydo troversy, T wuld
add, that is-taunderst od youyour relgio'ois 'so. abstruse
that none but the;educated can apeciiteit. Now ithat,
I think our religion is far sup-rioi to youa ftr'itiso

14               aovMV AS IT 19


76               - socIETY AS IT is

simple that the humblest mind can comprehend'it, while,
it is,so philosophical that the greatest intellectssthe world
has ever produced, could not but express their adgiiration.
It is, indeed, the religion of all people and tongues, and I
am sorry that you do not accept it."
To this Mary briefly replied:
" As to our principles, ' abstruse' is not the word which
expresses their quality. They are plain, simple, and easi-
ly coniprehended. But it requires a mind with an un-
shackled intellect ; and this can only be the case when,
by proper cultivation, the prejudices of a false education
have been rooted out. This is the beginning, and hence-
forth the acceptation of truth is the work of endless pro-
gress. Paul's proselytes were nourished first on milk-
meat was too strong; and it is just so with ours.
"It is a common remark that the phild must 'creep be-
fore it can walk.' Everhimg that relates to man is pro-
gressive. The physical powers of the body' are made
stronger by constant use; the. artist does not become a
proficient in a day; nor the man of science master of its
principles in an hour. These things are realized only by
a compliance on the part of the subject with the requisite
conditions. Universal analogy prevails, and the "grarid
principles of our spiritual philosophy are no exception.
They cannot enter the sanctuary of the mind, unless the
doors of the understanding are unlocked.
"As to the great intellects .that have admired the.phi-
losophy of the old theologies, as they have culminated in
the dogmas of the sects, I would observe that great intel-
lects are not always the accompaniments of great minds.
They sometimes take very material views of man and his
destiny. If the fact that great intellects with great sci-
entific attainments, have accepted your dogmas, proves
them philosophical, what does the fact" that great intel-
lects with great scientific attainments have not accepted
them, prove?  But again; in ancient times, as great intel-
lects as the world has ever known-your own champions
sitting in judgment,-did actually recognize the pagan
views of religion with which they were surrounded. Now,

if the fact that a great intellect, or a great mind accepts
any system of faith,:proves it philosophical and true, then
does the fact that a great-intellect or great mind accepts
another system of faithprove it philosophical and true
also. Now, the truth.is, men are apt to accept that faith b;
in which they are educated, ana great intellects, and in
some respects greatminds, are no, excetion
Mary acceptedthe invitationb ut when7she re-
turned they did not discuss theology or.ary' of the
great problems of humanity she ioyed so wellto ist
investigate; and so dulland spiritless was thecon.
.versation to,.her, that she: felt but little attractiony
indeed, ever to repeat the visit. Aknd nowas Mary
did on church-going eveningL we must did{her ortho-
dox friend "good bye."
It was spring now,.and when Charles removed to
his farm, Mary went along to do the "house-keepigg,"
and take care of the garden. She was a proficient
in both these arts, and very fond of thelatter. But
when Charles began to see the,-4isadyartage of isola,.
tion in his department of labor,. she discovered the
same in hers. It seemed that it-required half her
time to do the cooking for. themselves and one hand.
She calculated that something like tWie the amount
of labor wopld serve three times ts many persons
supplied at the same table. Multiply this numberby
nine, prepare the food for all in one kitchen suitably
furnished with cooking aparatus, and the savng:
would greatly, exceed fifty per-cent.
What a relief, thought MarY, to those who nw
undergo,:-in isQlation, the drudgery of housekeeping i
She wondered at the wantof iAteligence and broth-
.erhood which have kept- nankind'sp long fr'oma ree
alization of these .advantage.Shbe 9bsegyed. t~t
her own sex were the most aversefo any chang  of
habit. in domestic ec ormy.;but, sheet thought they
ought to be the most anxiousfor assoeiationdu iib .

AND - AS . i - SfiOO LI, B.   71


78                 socirr  AS IT is

sequent observation confirmed her in this opinion.
She saw with pain the drudgery of women in mod-
erate circumstances, who have the care of several
small children. 'She could recall some, who in their
girlhood days, were wont to use the means of men-
\tal ulture,:and bid fair "to, be something ;" but now
that they had been five years married wom en, she
saw them struggling in the slough of life, intellectual-
ly swamped.- She observed in some families, in which
the mother did not become such at too early an age,
that the oldest children-although the youngest should
have been--were the most intellectual, and altogeth-
er the best specimens of humanity; and this, tried
by the principles of hereditary descent, she referred
to the increasing drudgery of the mother, which not
only dwarfed her own mind, but vitiated the consti-
tution of her children.
Mary grew weary of contemplating such slavery,
and the evils necessarily attendant thereon, and
wished with all her soul that men and women would
be wiser and establish such social conditions as would
insure more leisure for the cultivation of what is no-
ble in human nature, and more abundant means for
the gratification of the highest aspirations of our be-
ing. She longed for employment conducted on more
rational principles, and it was not long till she found
it. She was invited to engage as teacher in a Union
School, in a neighboring county, and 'after making
due inquiry as to what would be demanded of her,
she accepted the place upon the terms offered.
The school is located among the most-intelligent
and liberal people.' Teachers are allowed to be true
to their destiny as men and women ; and it is ex-
pected that they shall develop the youthful mind
upon the true principles of education. Phoietics,
Physiology, Phrenology, and Magnetism are taught
as-regular branches; and lectures given on Psyehol-

ANt s I sLsern BE.       79
ogy, Neurology, Physiognomy, and kindred objects
of the highest-interest to inquiring ninde  Particular
attention ispaid to the trainingof thethinkig powers.
The design is to educate the wholemnd and tojths.
end the intellectfis developed in its tuerelations of
harmony with the affections and sentiments. The
pupils are taught tb judge nothing by mere prejudice,
prepossession; or desire, but: to consider: any subject
thoroughly and impartially, ands then decide accord-
ing to their evidence.--They. are instructed'tdocarry
this rule into all the departments of sciencekphiloso,
phy, religion, politics, medicine, and the :every-day
affairs of life. it is strictly enjoined, on them-not to
rely upon others for thought and sentiiment, but al.
ways upon themselves; to be social and friendly, but
independent.
Another system of education adopted -here, is that
all the conventionalities of an aristocratic and cowupt
society are wholly discarded. The pupils.are taught
to address each other by their proper' names, ith-
out any prefixes or affixes ;n and other rule strictly
enjoined, is: "Let your communication be;yea, yea;
nay, nay; that is, simple and plain, for whatsoever is
more than these cometh of evil."  All are instrcted
to pass for what they are, without any attetnpt at
fashionable-airs or extra refinement. Elocation is
taught orally in every class. All are accustomed to
the clearest and most distinct enunciation.;Ev.
ery elementary sound of the word .is vigorously
exacted. This iakes some difficulty with 4 few
who are generally in attendance from the:neigh-
boring-city, and whose speech has been 'corruptedby
contact with fashionable -society. it is difficult far
these to substitute rfor sthe iasal twang, thatunramis
takable mark of good breeding;, and passport4o the
circles of the upper ten." ' But even witkasuchthe
difflcu1ty-is overcome, and as theygrow sensiblethey
quit murdering the people's English.


80             'SOCIETY AS IT IS

Mary was pleased with this way of proceeding,
and all enchanted with her new situation,. What
made it the more delightful, was, that not only -the
teachers, but nearly all the patrons were strongly
in favor of the plan adopted, and did, by their influ-
ence at home, what they could to -further the design
of education at school. There were but very few
who felt any dissatisfaction, and they objected. to
nothing but the exclusion of the falses which pertain
to society as it is. One of these once said to Mary,
that he thought it a poor way to educate young per-
sons for the world, into the active business of which
they would soon be called to act their part. Mary
replied, that if not the best, plan for this world, it cer-
tainly is for the next, and that they chose to educate
people for the eternal future, rather than for a few
fleeting years on earth. She went on to say, that
education is the business of a lifetime, and of a whole
eternity, and not merely of~a few years in the morn-
ing of existence.
" But," said her friend, "life in this world is life as
we find it, and our children must enter upon its ex-
periences, whether good or evil, and it seems to me
that they should be educated with this end in view."
"1 I should prefer," said Mary, "to give a true edu-
cation, with reference to the true ends of our being.
If we are to overlook the long ages of the future, and
the real destiny of man, for the falses of present ex-
istence, and model our system of education accord-
ingly, then indeed is it a sad thing for humanity.
Success in life, under false conditions of society, re-
quires falsehood in the individual; and it seems to
me that every well-meaning-parent should prefer the
simplicity of a true education, to the inculcation of
that laxity of principle which is more likely to insure
a brilliant career, through. life. What the. world
thinks brilliant and what we know to be happiness,

are very different things. The honors of wealth, of;
ficial trust, social consequence, and-much that the
world names 'great,' are fraught with more pain
than pleasure, as their votaries tell us ;. and. even
they, spiritually undeveloped as they are, do not re-
alize the vast preponderance of evil against them.
A true education may not do -much toward giving
capacity, under existing social donditions, for,the
acquisition of such honors, and- the fulralization of
what is called success; but it leads-light along the
pathway of human destiny, and cits       b
with garlands of peace arid ha pp'es .
But even inder th social false which no8w prevail,
one truly educated mayffind'certain relationss oflie
in which he may secure the meats of comfrnti
.contentment--and in the truth lived, find'a peace ab4
happiness, which'none of .earthexternals cajgne.
Even now, those who desire it, xy a dustrfo tfm
selves, a social order, free, in a n.me sure;  onie
prevailing falses ; but further, it is to be hopedt t
by the onward movement of  uman estir the c .
editions of society. will soon he o banged, that trke
development will be adapted theretQ and=trftlhf
habits alone guarantee, success,"
The voice of the maiden agdin confounde herJ.
potent, and he was silent, except to mutt r "vin.-
ary;" button this she made no:re ly

AND- AS IT SHOULD - BE.

yr
_

4-)a

9        (   *     t }y .-Fri- '     n   'e


AND AS IT-SUOULD BE.

CHAPTER V.
* '    CHARLES AND THE STRANGER.
MAY had found kindred spirits, and lived amidst
the joyous reciprocation of 'a full tide of sympathy.
She was anxious to have Charley there too, bbt he
had --no* become closely engaged in the study of a
science, from which he expected much goaio to the
human race, and as he wished to reserve all 'the
energies of his mind for this, and such study and
miscellaneous reading as he felt attracted to, he did
not think' proper to engage in teaching. He had
Odardely ang sympathy where he was, but was so
deeplyfinterested in the prosecution of his intellect-
ual pursuits, and had so extensive a correspondence
'fot one so young, that he contrived to make him-
self qnite contented. He had taken an industrious
friend, with a family, into partnership with him on
the farm, and to arranged the conditions that he'was
seldom obliged to labor more than was agreeable to
his tastes, and necessary to the health of the body,
and vigorous action of the mind. This requisite
amount of physical labor, Charles. found in his own
case to. be about thirty hours per week. Being of
an active temperament, he could not do with less,
and he generally selected from taste that kind of
work which called the greatest number of muscles
into vigorous action. This portion of his time thus
spent in productive industry, he found, with econo-
my, to be abundantly sufficient, even in isolation,
situated as he was, to satisfy all the wants of the
body; and as to the wants of the mind, he was coun-

tent with a prelibation, at present, of what the future
would supply in more copikus diraughts.
Charles had now made an acquaintance in which
he saw the promiserof good, and how this came about
I may as well divulge.
He had been getting more and more weary of the
vexations of isolation." Once, in sellitig a lot of farm-
stock for one hundred dolais, he was cheated out of
about twenty-five. He was busy at the time' study-
ing Brown's Lectures on the Mind, and did not like
to take time from his agricultural duties to weigh the
stock, and so trusted, to the smooth tongue of the
buyer who was reputed to have "grace," and in
whose profession to do the fairthing, hethought he
might confide. Simple young mnan f  Silly  even
as tried by the world's -standard. Mr. Misty,:the
hog-merchant, said they could reckon very nearly
what the weight would be, and'that he would rather
allow more than go to the trouble of weighing ; and
after they had agreed upon the figure, he, said that
it was about a. "fair average ;" atid the' words
came as firm, kind, clear, and sonorous as if an angel
had coined them, Charles said Mr. Misty -seemed
like a clever honest man; but for this his neighbors
all laughed right at him. They- said that Charies
had "larnin" enoogh-=_too much, infact,.for hiso wn
good, but "knowed nothin about makinia bargain ;-
and to be dull at a bargain was to be next thing to
no man at all."  But-the fact is, Charles was made
for fraternity and not fovselfishness.
He was getting' initiated into an. understanding of
the mysteries of societyand found that he hadLto be
eternally watching for so he discovered allhis neigh-
bors did, If he had only a coat or pair of pantiloons
to purchase, he had to "keep a skinned eye,"-as, the
vulgar phrase was, or he -would yet get "bit."  And
he often. did get. bit. Re was too noble, arid had nbt
the " aack  b -     biasiness. 1H  discovered that

"a
s


SOCIETY AS IT IS
some of his neighbors, who had made. this matter
the study of life, and took delight in putting their
theories into practice, could generally buy for seven-
ty-five cents what invariably cost him a dollar- or
more.
An old friend of Charles',- who heard that he was
beginning to think about association, wrote him to
show the futility of such an extravagant notion, and
told him that the safest way in the end' was to trust
nobody but himself, and treat every man in his busi-
ness relations as a rogue. Charles had experience
enough to know that this was only too true in the
antagonism of existing society. And 0 how often
did it give him a heavy heart to contemplate and
experience these conditions of eternal warfare -and
distrust amongst those who should be brothers 1' He
could realize amongst his dearest friends how
delightful it was to give and receive, confidence, .and
mingle the holiest sympathies of the human heart ;-
and then what a chilling contrast, upon going out
into the world, to find in every man with whom
'he had dealings, an enemy !
"Must these things always be," said Charles to
himself in the moments of his deepest agony ;-"will
man always be so -blind as thus to curse himself to
gratify the yearnings of selfishness? It would in-
deed-seem so, for I can scarcely find one around me
that ever dreams of realizing anything better, and in
their meekness, or rather sordidness, they seem con-
tent with things as they are. 'They regard them as
fixed and immutable,  md go oti without wishing or
striving for higher conditions. Some indeed talk of a
millennium, but they place it away in the far off
future; or, if they suppose it near, they expect it to
be brought about miraculously and in the twinkling
of an eye. They' are as far from laboring in'the
preparation of earth for the New Jerusalem, as those
who nver&amp; expect it to descend.  dtBuIwill not

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.
despair. The state of war in which man now lives
is not to last always. The conditions of-antagonism
must be changed for those of harmony,and man must
do the work. But how can this great work be done?"
" Hearken, brother, and I will tell thee," said a
strange voice. "The trumpet is lieard, and God has
not forsaken Zion. You are happier .than poets,
prophets,-and sagest who, haveA' longed ,o see. this
day. All hail, beauteous morning:-" and with this
the stranger left.
Charles was confounded. Whence the visitor had
come or whither he had gone, Charles knew not.
Whilst meditating, he wassitting at his table with
his hand over his forehead and eyes closed. Upon
hearing he voice he looked up, saw  the door ajar
and the .stranger standing near him. His counte-
nance was calm and thoughtful, with a peculiar blend--
ing of sadness and hope. Charles realized in anmo-
ment that he was in the presence of a superior being,
who might as to his body be of earth, but who,s to
his spirit, knew much of heaven and its. harmony. 9
Those mild eyes beamed with an unearthly lustre,
and theyseemed to penetrate.the deepest recesses
of the soul., Charles was conscious tha.t thebook of
his own mind-was open, and that his inmost thoughts
were read therein.
The next morning Chadles rose early, and' with
the sun came his mysterious visitor.
A friendly. greeting, and then the stranger began:
" My dear Charles, you would know: how the con-
dition of antagonism may bechanged into those of
harmony, and earth made glorious. I shall in due
time proceed to unfold the principles 'by which this
great result may be brought about--may berealized
even now by those who;will'; but first there arap
tam preliminwries toAbe dispose of, and I shall inthe
first place attempt to giove that the agcaequeries of
human conduct are eternal.

I

,' ' i

v


AND AS T SHOULD' -E,

CHAPTER VI.
THE RELATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL'S FUTURE
TO HIS PRESENT.
" IN this life, the conduct of each affects him for
happiness or misery.' One act is followed by the
reward of -happiness, another by the penalty- of
suffering.
"Let any one obey all the laws of healthy and a
happy, cheerful, buoyant enjoyment of physical exist-
ence is the consequence. If he infringe these laws,
disease, with all its pain and suffering, ig the sure
result.
"iLet an individual obey or disobey a moral law, and
* the reward of happiness or unhappiness follows as
the second term of the- sequence. 'The golden
rule,' is a great moral law founded in the moral
constitution of man. Whoever obeys it, is happy
in the esteem and sympathy of the noble and vir-
tuous, and in the approval of God's voice within.
He is happy so far as his relations of harmony with
that one law can make him so. Whoever disobeys,
,    cannot enjoy communion of spirit with the great and
good, but is tormented with the gnawings of selfish-
ness, and unhappy so far as the act of disobedience,
can affect him.
"The same is true of all the moral laws, and it is
but proper, as an incidental remark, to state here,
that the obligations of society as it is, are not in all
respects, by any means, the obligations of moral law
as it exists in the nature of man. Society is false in

its constitution, has-a false systemsf agerals, and
imposes false obligations upon the individuiab fluRt
there is a true morality ntwithstanding,:and iti the
object of social reform }o to arrangethe relatinsef
man to man that the-obligation aftsociety ,wilbe at-
one with the obligations of true morality.~
"oThat operation of moral law in consequence of
which happiness results from  obediencegn d pain
from disobedience, is not the ,only onewith which-
man's experience _has to do. Habitual obedience not
of ly brings the habitual reward-of happiness, but
it rendersobedience natural and easy-idisposes and
fits the mind to obey ; while, habitual disobediende,
not only brings habitual penalty, but renders ather
moral sensibilities obtuse whets the evil propensitiesy
and gives the soul more of the desire and power
to sin.
"The first act of cruelty may shock benevolencb e
.    the first act of dishonesty may give a pang to ony
scientiousness,; the first act of blasphemy may cause
the religious.instinct to'evolt, but the habitual
practice of cruelty,-fraud, and irreverence willren
der the moral sensibilities-;callous, give aoti.ity
and force to the sinful propensities ,and make them
more arrogant and intrusive. -The first .act ..of res
ligion, integrity or kindness, made to proceed frmt
an inward prompting, may require an =effortbit if
frequently repeated, it arouses into active energy the
moral faculty from which it proceedsands deadens
by resistance and. disuse whetever is an tagonistie.
"Thus a good act, so far=as its'legitimate sphereref
influence- extends, affects the, mind for good whilst
subject to .the existing mental law . Itsis true that
subsequent to- the good act, the repetition -may be
neglected and bad ones supply its place;,till th mind
is more degraded-than before the; worthy deed was.
done. But it is also true that the soul wouldhveh


A14D AS IT SHOULD BE.

been still more vitiMed without the redeeming virtue
of the good act.
"Just so with 'evil works;' theyleave effects upon
the soul as lasting as the existing laws of mind. It
is true that the bad act may not be repeated, and
virtuous ones follow till the mind rises far superior
to what- it was before the wrong was committed;
but it is also true that without the sinful deed, the
soul would -have been still more exalted ; and had -an
act of virtue been done instead, the spiritual man
would have risen to a still greater elevation.
"In view of these considerations, I conclude that
every act in this life leaves its impress upon the mind
either for good or evil. The law of mind by which
this takes place, I will call the Law.of Moral Dis-
cipline.
" Admitting this conclusion, then: first, if man be
immortal; -secondly, if divine law be immutable ;
thirdly, if the divine government be consistent with
itself; fourthly, if the law- of moral discipline be a
law of mind distinct from matter,--then does. it fol-
low that:the consequences to the individual of his con-
duct in this life are eternal.
" 1. As to immortality, I need say but little.. Man
longs for endless being, and if he -is not mocked, he
will live forever.
" Throughout the government of God, so far as
we are acquainted, there is universal adaptation.
There is no mechanism without a purpose, no appe-
tite without the corresponding food, no desire with-
out the appropriate means of gratification. The
complicated mechanism of the eye has seeing for its
object.; the appetite of hunger is gratified with food;
the desire of distinction has the wide world to revel
in. Since this ;adaption is universal--not one ex-
ception to be found thereto in all the realms within
the range of man's observation--shall we regard the

desire of immortality an anomaly? a condition with{
out its counterpart? a longing without the possi
bility of its ever being satisfied,?"
"Permit me to interrupt you," said Charles; "I
am a firm believer in immortality, indeed:- know that
I shall live after this-body has crumbled to dust, but
I would respectfully ask whether there are not:hu-
man desires which man is without the means of grat-
fying. . . He desires to know the origin -ofhimseWand
all things,-the nature of his future existence and
final destiny, and yet it seems that he cannot. JIt
this mockery1"
" You are right," said the. stranger;"man has
these desires, but who can say that they will not be
gratified?  None but he who has lived out thecyjcles
of eternity and completed his destiny's
"fI perceive the conclusiveness of your answer,"
said Charles quickly. ." These desires pertaina to-that
of immortality,;- they all cluster around man's Velig-
ious aspiration, and attest the divinity of his origin,
the eternity of his destiny."
"That is just what I intended to say," replied the
other, "and since you accept the doctrine, to=urge it
further would be superfluous.
"2. It is rather, late in the world t&amp;o mothe
question of the immortality of divine law. iniver
sal experience confirms the doctrine. The samre
physical, organic, moral, and spiritual sequences
which obtained two thousand years ago, still recur
in the same regular order. Uponthe-unchange,
ableness ofdivine - law as manifesfed in the govern-
ment of the-universe, isfounded the divine attribute
of immutability and this none deny in theory, whi-
ever they may do- in  practice. . nIn 'the Father of
lights': there . is no variableness, neither shadow of
turning~'
"3.wDivine law is .t onlyimmutable butin a

Flo". , 4.

-             88t

SOCIETY, AS IT is

GOL


ScBrYAST PAND-A A IT SIOULDB ' BE.                                   g

sense, universal. " Man, it is true, has not penetrated
the profoundest depths, nor explored the utmost
bounds of creation, but still he has been able to pen
an extent of the universe absolutely very great,
whatever it may be relatively, and a&amp;s found therein
the same uniformity of plan, the same unity of design.
" The whole universe must be in harmony; other-
w    there would be conflict between the different
parts, disorder, confusion, eternal clashing,-elemental
war. Whenever, then, the same circumstances ex-
ist, there do we find the same means. used to pro-
duce the same effect. When the conditions are
different, corresponding means are adapted to the
design ; but even here we see the divine purposes
marked by the same great moral principles which
everywhere characterize the operating energies of
the Eternal. The universe has but one God, and
his government is unity.
"We are authorized to conclude that the divine
government, in all its various departments, is uni-
form and consistent-that there is a perfect analogy
between the modes of that government in whatever
different spheres it may be administered. Unless
this uniformity characterizes the divine operations
everywhere, God himself as Legislator and Executor
would be a capricious, vascillating, inconsistent be-
ing, and no reliance could be placed by his intelli-
gent creature, upon the order of his government. -All
would be irregular and uncertain. But that such is
not the case, every day's experience -amidst the
phenomena of nature affords every assurance. That
God's government is uniform, that a perfect analogy
exists between all the modes and spheres of its ad,
ministration, is confirmed by all within the'range of
man's observatio.- It-is necessary to harmony, that
the divine government be consistent with itself.
Now since the soul is immortal, law inrimutable,

and the divine government consistent w ih ftsW, we
should expect siigh a connection betweenth life 'and
that which is to come, that-the characte { the indi
vidual forms for himself here willbe thatwitlh -which
he enters Upon the next sphere -of existence. -Now
if the law of moral discipline -be alaw of mind dis:
tinct from -matter, thenindeed is{it incontrovertible
that the next life is but a continuation of thisesthe
life of one year is the continuation Of the life pf an!
other.  Since the conditions of my mind-,to-day
have a dependence on my -conduet yesterday, in
like manner does my happiness this year, the'next,
and during my earthly existence,. depend in part
upon my conduct, last year; and so, if the, laws of
moral discipline be a law of mind distinct from matter,
the happiness of my  eternal future: is affected in part
by my conduct in the present life. But-"if it be a
law of matter, then the acts of this life cannot afeet
the happiness of the, next, for the -soul's material
vechicle is left with its mother earth. If it be a
law of mind -in combination with matter only, hue
man acts- for the same reason cannot affect the soil
hereafter.
"4. But the law of moral discipline cannot'be a
law of matter. When' not used as the instraient
of mind, matter is not subject in .any wise ton sneh
a mode of government, and the law in qu  tion can'
not be a 'physical law.
"Is it, therefore, a law 'of mind and matterrin a
state of organic connection only?  Iffso, why should
Deity make it a- law of both and not of -mind When
disconnected from matter? -The body'remains withf
earth, is only dust, and .cannot beasubjectvwhe
deserted-by the spirit, to such a modeof governent.
The mind goes'-into another sphere;and ifs 'ot s
ject to thislaw, it must h-e to some other. -L  b-
ject to some other rdiffrent anddistinet fr mr.thy

'Uk

SOCIETY AS IT- IS


'OCITY . AS IT IS
law of moral discipline, where are we to look in
this particular for uniformity in the divine govern-
ment exhibited any where else?  To subject mind to
one mode of government in connection with matter,
and then, when the clayey tenement is thrown off,
annihilate all the effects and consequences of the
natural and legitimate operation of that law upon
the mind, would betray an inconsistency, an abrupt
incongruity, an absolute want of adaptation no where
characteristic of nature within the bounds of human
observation and experience. What God has made a
law of mind in connection with matter, he has also
made a law of mind when divorced from matter.
For if he has made the law in question a law of mind
when in connection with the body, and made it not
a law of mind when separated from the body, then
is his moral government in this world and in the next
unlike. But God, whether we consider him a per.
sonal being or the animating principle of the uni-
verse, is without 'shadow of turning,' his govern-
ment, uniform and consistent with itself, and there-
fore, the laws to which he has subjected mind are
the same here and hereafter."
" I would not be captious," interposed Charles,
" but I am not persuaded that your reasoning is con-
clusive. The mind is connected here with a coarse
organism,'and hereafter not, and hence the circum-
stances would be different under which the law would
operate; and might not the next life, from a necessity,
be so different from this, that our conduct here would
not affect us there, and yet the divine government
be consistent. We see here that a blow on the
skull, and .disease, of the nerves especially, affect the
mind.  My conduct with refepMd* to my body
affct:the condition of my miid, and. influences my
happiness; and this cannot obtain in the next sphere
of existence into which the body is not taken. The

AND, AS IT sHOUlD B!.

two spheres are different, and it would seem thattheir
laws might be."
"Your objection, Charles, is well timed, and Liam
glad you have made it,'' said his friend, "it.is:true,
that the state of the brain-when affected: by accident
oriother external agency, mayrchange the afs-
tations of mind, but not the mindain its inherent ln-
ture. Disease, by affecting the brain, may cange
the whole character of mental manifestation, but not
the mind, except by the-law of habit. Aeiden t to
th6 brain may render some particular faculty dor-
mant for life, but do we conclude that the faculty is
destroyed because it no longer manifests itself
When the spirit is wholly separated from the organ-
ism, this faculty will manifest itself in-the next here
with no other injury than that which=results from
want of exercise in this. 4 Such a result is indicated,
if not proved, by the fact, that when byTacc{4 ntpor
otherwise, the skull ismade to press upon. the, brain
all consciousness ceases; but when the pressure is
removed, if the brain is not injured, conciousnes
returns, and the mind begins thinking where, it left
off when the accident took place.
"The phenomenon to which you alluderso far from
proving that the law of moral discipline pertains only
to mind in combination with} matter, proves  ther
that it is a law of mind distinct from matter. This
will appear more fully from the following consider-
ations.
" We take it for granted, that the spirit will live
after it has left the body.  W',consider it a  inde-
pendent existence. Now, let us regard ;th  material
organism as. the instruentality which  dapts this
living entity to the material:world. TheAsphrit is
the thinking, acting principle, anid h e body,2spegi4.
ly the brain; its instr nient  Nowif- astrutent
is i. good Werrking ordeothe spi4e efw      b

4


SOCIETY AS IT IS-

Itself-to live according to its own laws. But if the
instrument becomes deranged, the artisan, which is
the mind, can work to but little purpose. If the
good father's nerves are becoming diseased, he may
pray three times a day, and yet daily -become more
and more irritable, and less and less religious. -'he
disturbing influence of the body, acting upon the
soul, or rather clogging it, contravenes the law of
moral discipline.  The body is diseased, the mind
cannot be itself, and the law does not apply. -When
the body recovers perfect health, it answers the our-
pose of its existence, the mind acts freely, is itself,
and then the -law of moral discipline obtains.
" These considerations are to my mind conclusive,
that the law' of moral discipline is properly a law of
mind. In this sphere it is only so when the body is
in health and the proper instrument of mind or spirit;
but hereafter, when the spirit is free from grossly
knaterial shackles, there will be no obstructions, and
the law will act uninterruptedly as one which per-
-talus exclusively to mind.
"This law, like all others, is immutable, and aqs
with a uniformity which the change of spheres can-
not disturb; therefore, the doings of. man in this
sphere will affect him for happiness or unhappiness,
in the next as well as in this. Wrong-doing lumbers
the spirit and keeps it down, or sinks it lower ; right-
doing unclogs the spirit and leaves it free to rise."
"Y lou speak," said Charles, "of wrong-doing and
bad acts, of well-doing and good acts ;-how may
we know when an action is bad or good, and what
has the motive to do with it?"
" The motive," replied the other, Rdetermines the
character of the action, is the soil of the action, is
essentially'the action itself.
"Henry lames' would define an esthetic action to
be one which makes its end.'or object fll within the

94

"

AND AS rr  urt7  BE.
subject or actor; an action which rings froman 
internal pronipting, and is-done because it pleases
the subject so to do without egard 'to.extenlcon-
siderations. Such an action;would he ahtre Qut-
growth of the subject's inmost nature, and since he
is essentially God, it  Would be tito1 the subLt
true to his'fellow-man, true to his destiny'
"I would define 'a-good nationn to be one which is
in harmony with the moral or spirittial 'principles
which pervade the universe, as power, wisdom, jus-
tice, goodness. Such action is true to man's destiny,
and is esthetic while it is more. A good act, or one
which is true to the real destiny of man, embraces
more than the beautiful."
"One more observation," said Charles; "there is
one particular in which, as it seems to me, the phrase-
ology doeset-accurately express the thought; and
might lend to error. Is there not an error in saying
that every act leaves upon the soul an effect which is
eternal, when by following such acts with those of a
different character, its effects are removed?"
"Let me explain," replied the unkn own. "The
effects of violation cleave to.the mind and no MoC
repentance or forgiveness can wipe them ou.  but
I may, notwithstanding, transgress a. certain- law
every day this week, and yet at the epd of the month,
have a more exalted mind than I have to-day; The
good effects of more obedience may overcome the
evil effects of less transgression.
"But here is the great consideration: If I had
obeyed in all and transgressed none, I would have
been still more exalted. That week's'transgresssion
has thrown me back a week for all eternity ; hence'1
its effects are eternal.
"The Future of the Man depends upon his Wes.
ent."
'Charles listened attentively to all that was said


I

socirY As rr Is
during this interview, and was the more interested
to t6d his own somewhat crude rejections brought
out more fully and distinctly.
At parting the stranger observed. "Be here early
to-morrow, my dear Charles, and yourself wiling, I
shall present the contrast. Good bye."
That was a long day for Charles, and at night he
dreamed of " the contrast."  But morning came, and
with it his visitor.
*1

C EAPTERV IL

THE CONTRASi,,
" W   may now draw the eontcast betWeeti the
doctrine discussed at our lat interview, and thdse
popular dogmias Which it is destined ,o'suprcde!ed
"It gives a noble view of thetharater of Deitf
it represents the Rulet of the Universe as (v'e  g
by immutable and universal law, obedience to which
results in harmnonyoand happiness; anddisobediencfit
which results in discord and misery  Itrisf tidned
upon the truth that no power in the"1niverse can
disturb or suspend the legitimate operation of those
laws which proceed from the divine wisdom in itin
finite perfection and changeless suprethacy. These
laws are the modes of the divine -will, aud eautlir
divine tmecy nor any such attribute can changrwhat
God has made immutable. No power can twartthi
purposes of Deity by counteracting the disagreeable
consequences which pertain under the dive govern-
ment to the resistance of divine law; nor darithe
man-created attribute of Vengeance, or any other
passion imputed to Deity by the popular creeds, yie-
vent the agreeable coisequences which result Rfr in
relations of hartnony with the modes of divine o,
ernment.  This doctrine, in short, keyresehts  the
character of God uniffrrnly consistently, and su-
premely just. But while it does this, it does not
render man's salvation hopeless, forIt dde aotr
cognize the doctrine that God, with ain aroasediei -
geance ii  t of Aproud,; idat1itatef+irth,
9

r                     %,

, "
j
-


ANiD AS IT SHOUBLDBE.         99

pronounces an arbitrary decree of damnation upon
man for the error of his ways. Such a god and such
a damnation, were conceived in darkness, and exist
nowhere in the universe.
" On the other hand, the, popular theologies give
distorted views of the divine character. They put
God in the light of a being actuated like man, by fun-
ois wrath and inexorable vengeance. They put laws
in the divine code which require the constant personal
interference of their Author to carry them inter exe-
cution. They represent God as - taking offence at
certain acts of wickedness in man, and declaring the
divine vengeance against him ;-a vengeance which
cannot be averted except by the fulfilment of speci-
fied conditions on the part of the offender. Those
conditions complied with, God pardons the sin, wipes.
it out, remembers it no more.
"The pardon is not granted on the grounds of
merit in the compliance, but by virtue of a vicarious
sacrifice, made by a furious mob eighteen hundred
years ago, by which innocent blood was shed, and
an angry God appeased ! Think of the divine jus-
tice being satisfied by the vicarious offering of inno-
cent blood! My God ! what is it huma ignorancee
will not conceive and sanction !
"The popular theologies, moreover, virtually re-
gard God as considering sin an evil in no other light
than in that it gives offence to his. kingly majesty,
and through this channel affects man. In this re-
speet the creeds deify the pride of earthly sovereigns;
erect a terrible god out of human passions, and bid
their votaries. fall down before it.
" They represent the divine mercy as setting aside
the divine justice. The latter requires certain penal-
ties as the, means of satisfaction, but the former steps
in and averts the 'deserved wrath.'
"Such is the contradictory and distorted character

ascribed by the isms of 'our time; to the God:of the
universe! What enlightened- soul does not-ache-in
view-of such high-handed and presumptuous deroga-
tion from the dignity and consistency of the:4ivine
character? What a contrast 'between such an in-
congruous medley of absurdities named divine, nd
the consistent uprightness, and uniformrnanifestatin
of the divine attributes asrshown by the doctrine of
moral discipline!
" But the contrast we are contemplating is not
more striking in' the different lights in which the doc-
trines in 'question place the character of God, than in
the effect which each is calculated to have on human
conduct. .The law of moraldiscipline summons man;
and thus enforces the divine decree:
"'Obey the laws which exist for the government of
God's universal realms and you shall be happy;disobey,
and you shall be unhappy. If you obey; no power
can rob you of. the blessing; if you disobey, no power
can prevent.the execution of the penalty. If you-do
a good act, its salutary effect upon your character
will be commensurate with eternity; if you. do a
wrong one, its evil consequences will 'endure forever.
From every act; good or-bad,_proceeds 't4a hxfor
weal or wo through the whole limitless period sf the
eternal future. In faith and repentance there is no
virtue, direct-or indirect, which annihilates that eternal
effect. Thea e is no divine forgiveness to wipeoitoft,
for God's mandate has gone forth, and OmnipQtegce
does not choose to counteract. the decrees of Om.
niscience.' If you indulge: in sinful, habits all. your
life, you can not enjoy the future,/till you aredid=
ciplined for that purpose :What you lose by wick-
edness in life will be an eternal losgs.hieno4sd
try, no act of man-ano act of Dety can redeem
If you put off reformation' to - thelasthours Qf
existence. and hope'by a death4ed epentacephow-

98              SOCIETY AS IT IS

'a
f
^s
i
1.


AND ASi1S2HOUTD BE.          101

ever sincere, and by merciful interposition of divine
forgiveness to regain the loss of a life of wrong doing,
and become fit to enter after death upon the full
enjoyment of the next sphere of existence, you are
clinging to a miserable delusion. If you have lived
with a bad heart, you will die with it little better,
except for the moment. It is only by reformation
well. begun and persevered in, that the soul can be
unshackled, either in this life or that which is to come.
After a life of sinfulness the soul may awake in the
next sphere superior to what it was in this; after
years of guilt, it may, by reformation sincere and
lasting, rise higher and higher in the scale of spirit.
ual existence; but it can never stand as high at any
given point of time as it would have done had the
evil habits left no degrading tendency upon the soul.
yar'wppines4p.ends upon your own acts and
their legitimate effects upon the immortal principle.
Every act of well-doing adds to, every act of wrong-
doing derogates from the measure of your happiness
band susceptibility of true enjoyment. If you culti-
vate true religion, which embraces all that is essential
to spiritual progress, you will prepare yourself for
the fruition of the treasures laid up for the righteous,
where moth nor rust do not corrupt ; and what you
gain by such a course will be an eternal gain...Pro-
gress in the power to enjoy happiness, depends not
on any single act of self-abasement, popularly called
repentance, but on the habitual practice of well-doing.
Remember this, 0 man, and profit by the lesson.'
"Such is. the gospel of the Spiritual Law; and
what stronger inducements, so far as doctrine as a
circumstance is concerned, can be held out to mane to
refrain from  wickedness and live according to the
$    laws of his being?  Let us- observe the contrast in
the tendency of other views.
"What are the incentives offered. to virtue by the

doctrine of eternal, unconditional election? God
has, from all eternity, chosen whom he wo-d save,
and left the rest-to reprobation. To the elect Ohiist'.
righteousness is imputed and they will he savedon the
good works of another. Their short comingswillbe
pardoned because Jesus 'appeased the divinewrathby
a life of rigteousness and a death of agony. A bad
act with themleaves;no stain; aigood act.,ne teideney
to virtue and happiness. Why then care whether
we do good or evil?. So faras the doctrine ifs con-
cerned, there -is neither restraint t6 the one, nor ins
centive to the other.
" Such are the legitimate consequences of the
doctrine. of eternal, unconditional election? .1e nce
held soh views, but I thank God that theyhave
fled before the light Which comes froms the sun of
truth, and I no longer affe  sacrifice with such a faith
upon the altar. of Darkless toy the god of Error.
Could poor Cowper, and thousands of others,.have
made a sacrifice of such notions, instead of sacrificing
their happinessto them., they would. not have.been
driven to: the- borders of despair and suicide on ac-
count .of their ;keen, moral sensibilities,which ex-
posed them to- the decreed uncertainties of this faith
and made them feel and fear that they beIonged to
the reprobate.
"' But,s how is it with the doctrine of conditional
election ?  According to those who urge thi version
of Christian faith, salvation is the great prize to be
won by the faithful discharge of religious duty. in
connection with the exercise of faith and repentance,
and a compliance with the ordinances of the Church,
a change of heart is experienced, and the, graces of
God secured. 'They are now in the ',ark-of safety?
and any act of unrighteousness :,is forgiven, if the
delinquent manifest a contRate -heart 4. :$he merits ':f
Jesus are all-satiafactory ito Godand by :l eir-irttu
is the human soul cleansed of all impurity

too              SOCIETY AS IT lR


102              SOCIETY AS IT Is'

"Now let a hardened sinner of three-scoreyears'and
ten, be laid upon the couch of death, and he has only
to comply with certain requisitions which require less
time than an hour, and he is pardoned through the
atoning merits of Jesus. If he die the next moment
his blood-washed soul takes its flight to realms.of bliss,
and is as happy and joyous as that -spirit which had
maintained a life of righteousness through long years
of peril and persecution.
"AThe tendency of such doctrine is to encourage
the indulgence of present inclination, however crim-
inal. ' At some time,' says the politic recusant,'I
will get religion, and when I get it I'll be sure of sal-
vation, and what more can you obtain by mortifying
the flesh for a whole lifetime? Sudden death may
cut me off, it is true, but such luck is rare, and I stand
a thousand chances to one that such will not be 'my
fate, whilst in the prime of life anyhow. A few more
years of pleasurable indulgence';-let- me enjoy the
sweet morsel of sin awhile longer; but before I die,
I'll make my 'calling and election sure."
"Here we have it.'- Men are hopeful, and out of
the Church they expect to live long, and make all
right some time before their final exit. They find
justification for their delay in the doctrine which
grants salvation and the pledge of eternal happiness
on the couch of death, and the preachers should not
blame them.
"1One of the 'renewed ins heart' reasons thus, or
et least acts thus, and in so doing follows out the
legitimate bearings of his faith:
«' I got religion young.  0, how  happy the
thought ! how I rejoice that I have taken up my
cross !  No .one can live without -sin, and 0, what
would have, become of erring man, if he' had not the
mercy of God and the atoning blood of the savior
to rely.upon I Every act of sin which the depMvity

AND A- ?T                      QHogaggg,
of hutnannature causes,-me to commit, ishqt e4out,
and its effects uponmy character erased freer by
the blood of Christ. I have ofly  topra £hfuly
and repent sincerely, and m4 soul is freed from the
pollution of si, and become a fit subject fo rternal
glory.    yr
"This .is n false picture, ndobtains pretty gene
ally, except, that some of the praying, and quite
great deal of the repeHing, are altpgvher negleet4.
Now, what do such views naturally end in   The
Church furnishes the answer.The great messof
those who claim to be thefoJlowers of the meek
and Iowly Jesus,' conform to te spirtof he  ,
with themost utter diszegard,prdezticaly for thepr'
cepts and example ofthris t  The Ghurch e-peeially
the older and corrupter branches, is, as am erga ized
unity, the very embodiment of the spirit which ai- \
mates the corrupt society of the presenttimes.
Fashion, pride, vaity, aristocracy, avarice, Iugary,
are the ruling tendencies. Fine houses and  s
dresses to worship in are indispensable. Theastoc-
racy of society are takeninto Church, and the poor
and humble shut out, or sent.intpthet gallery. { But
all's right. Individual meMber are safe:in-h-ir  e
lianceupon the propitiation of a vicaipus saciie,
and the; assurance of their mn isters;jand inan ass
cated capacity.they may em ate-"
"Spare ,the Church,"sid Charles, I an      y
aware of the depth of its pollutom" -
"I should be glad, my dear Charle,'continued his
friend, to spare the Churchand o etethepain
of such contemplation-4nt the truth must belttid.
I will only add, that the Church h  forsakenhe
old bridegroom. - ie was too m eeky humhne   f an4
severely upright, to suit, the arrogance, isteeggy
and easy virtue of themodern damerad o~e4gt
him and married the'yorl


1

I@4

"But there is another class of persons, bath nathe
Ohutrchand out of the Gharchi very diffei&amp;nt ofro
tiosetvMady referred to. It is composed of .ne±h as
hive'nsitive nerves, with'an undue development of
oaution and consienflousness.
" The terrible God, which the evangelicals hold up
to -ne of ~this 6ls0, and the awful hell which they
wpee at his fet,'throw hire into an agony of terror;
He sees the-writhings and distortions of 'souls eter
ntly datnaede;' and tiring froth this picture to one
lcfees' horrible, he beholds the awful brow of
creator lowering with infinite displeasure, and his
ferteveyes flashing with ' wrath' and'"vengeance.'
Tirenrliog from headl to foot, the anxious biped falls
peh h) knee, and, sweating at'evety pore;begs for
tit f   But he feels -himself so unworth' that no
rry cornes;, and thus, week -after vWeek, aid year
after yesr,are agonized away in the hell on earth,
grEpkred by afagan dogma for'timid mortals. Suh
a doctrine; itis true, tinay make a Puritan of Buchan
indliduti-, but while I does so; it- robs hirn of happi-
bed, the eohseq enC6e of all wel-doing.
Thts class enbraces a great nuritber,- have been
seerpried te6fin4  o-marry; butthe concerned
a      ekwIi calculating, politic, in the Churehiand out
of theC  rch, as ah-&amp;edy noticed; are by fai'ihn ust
nun erous, and with -these the horrors of an angry
god and a hideous hell, are netitralized by the' con-
venience with which, atrany~ time; the danger 1§ set
as1de             .             ..
"l will advert to but one more doctrine. UilVers
swi saliation, as taught by some, separates virtue and
eteorni . It does not make the practice 'of right' in
t thif a- dondltion of happiness ir the -next. It
teuestia w6ig-doing pertains  to this worid only,
and that-tiesmost *icked addegraded wilI 'rise, after
death, as holy and happydishe     dghtet. It

.
a      i  Affi  T- is

I

i

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

105

declares that future existence is an arbitrary gift, and
that all enter it upon equal terms. So far as the future
is concerned, the doctrine affords no incentive to
present -well-doing. It breaks all connection between
the habits of this sphere and the spiritual conditions
of the next.
"The doctrine of moral discipline, unlike .those
which we have had under review, gives, no encour-
agement to the indulgence of criminal desire and the
procrastination of reform. The time given to sin is
lost forever. No momentary effort of the soul, no
vicarious sacrifice, no imputed righteousness, no
means whatever, can redeem the loss of a single
sinful act.
" The law declares that everything is lost by wrong-
doing--everything gained by well-doing. And, so
far as the faith has an influence, its restraints are all
upon wrong, and its incentives all for the right,
" But, besides the considerations of logic, to show
the superiority of the doctrine contended for, we have
experience to rely upon. The knowledge of this law
inspires-a concern for spiritual disciplinee unknown to
the popular notions. Its full appreciation has set
many a one to the work of his own spiritual training,
who manifested only unconcern and apathy under
the old views.
"*But, although I thus insist on the moral tendency
of a knowledge of this moral law, yet it would be
vain to expect it to mould perfect characters, under
existing circumstances, for those who receive it. We
might be able, by the inspiration of this law, to do
all we know to be right, and yet fail in much, for
want of a full and correct knowledge of the princi-"
pies of genuine 'morality or spiritual culture.
" But this is not, by any means, the greatest reason
why the mere knowledge of this law can not unclog
the soul. A greater-the greatest, indeed, : to be
10


I

106

SOCIETY AS IT IS

found in this mal-organization of society. Man is
placed in unnatural relations to man, and, in conse-
quence, subject to all manner of temptation to wrong.
But temptation is'not all. Wrong-doing is often a
necessity. Private interest clashes with public inter-
est; the individual is at war with the mass, and
whilst such vicious, and even, criminal conditions ob-
tain, the magic of no faith, not even faith in the law
of moral discipline, can unshackle the soul. The con-
ditions of society must be changed and made harmo-
nious; the principles of true morality must be known,
and then will the moral effects of the law in question
be entirely superseded. Man is inherently good, and
when disinthralled will do right, and ascend by spon-
taneous impulse.
" But, in bringing about those conditions, the law
has its part to accomplish. It teaches us by the sure
methods of experience, in what way ill-doing and
well-doing affect us, and thereby creates an ardent
desire, an intense longing in the mind of true religious
aspiration, to bring about such social conditions as
will relieve the spirit from its -present thraldom.
Thus, the influence of the law for good, is not only
direct but indirect. Under the existing falses of
society, it has an immediate influence upon character,
and a mediate influence upon the social conditions,
or, should have; and when it shall have accomplished
all it tends to in this direction, its operation will be
attended with happiness only. The conditions it
demands will obtain, and man will rise by a necessity
of his nature."
"This," said Charles, "attaches much importance
to the law of moral discipline, and your view seems
reasonable. I plead for the Church but.a moment
ago, yet I must say that the indirect tendencies of
the law upon society, through its direct influence
upon the Individual, contributes still further to deepen

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

]01'

the contrast between it and the 'dogmas"or at least
the doings of the Church,"
"You are quite right," replied the unknown
"The Church as an organization, cares but little
about any better conditions of society,  t has no
faith in them. It is far more concerned about the
distant heathen, while it not only connives at,.but
- even fosters those social influences which nmake
heathen enough at home; and that too within its
own precincts,-if not heathen, at least idolators;-
for Juggernaut has not more devoted worshipers than
have Mammon and Fashion. The eastern god is
honored with human sacrifices ; and ours too.
"It is notorious that the Church opposes all attempts
to reorganize society, and is bitter in its opposition.
To moot the question of social reform is to give con-
clusive proof that we are 'infidels.' The great body
of the clergy are satisfied with things as they are. They
keep frt enough; and then-it questions their wisdom
and wounds their pride to presume that they are not
altogether competent to incur all the responsibilities
and discharge all the duties connected with human
happiness here and hereafter. They tell us, that
theirs is the panacea that will heal the sin-sick soul,.
and transmute misery into happiness. It matters not
what my condition is ; I may be crushed to earth;
they have only to ,bid me rise, and I can obey. I
may be compelled to toil at an occupationw. holly
unsuited to my capacities and tastes; and not allowed
to cease till the very soul js worn out of me, and yet
they will exhort me for an hour at a time, and never
utter a word of remonstrance against the wretched-
ness of my social fate, nor lift a hand to relieve me
They will sing about taking my feet from the mire
and the clay, but when they've got done singing, I
am no better off than before. I can torture, by:ano
imagination. of mine, the slough with which 'I am
overwhelmed, into the ' rock of ages.'

3


.1I

108

SOCIETY AS IT IS

" The Church claims that within itself are the
appointed means whereby God confers happiness here
and salvaticn hereafter; and so why be troubled
about the conditions of society. It is as easy to save
a man, or woman, or negro, in one condition as
another, if he, or she, or it, is willing; and as to the
willing, that is a matter which pertains to the indi-
vidual, and if he does not will, it is his own fault.
" This brings us to another point : The influence
of circumstances over the will and conduct of the
individual. This will be our theme for the next
interview."
" I see no logical objection," said Charles, "to the
views you have so frankly presented, and I accept
them with all my heart; but surely Christendom is
not yet prepared for such teachings. Many, even o
liberal tendencies, would fear that the promulgation
of such views would lead to irreligion, and do more
harm than good."
" Their apprehensions would be groundless," said
Charles' mentor. "Those already 'religious' and
unprepared for our positive views, would reject our
criticisms utterly, and us too. Of those not profes-
sionally religious, some may, perchance, see the better
way at our pointing, and joyfully enter therein.
"And then we must ferret out corruption and show
where it is, before effective measures will be taken to
cast it out. - Jesus did not spare the hypocrisy of the
Pharisees, nor Luther the abuses of Rome. Major
Ludlow could not put down the suttee or widow
burning in India, by showing the beauty of the right
way, and only succeeded by attacking the institution
directly and showing its want of legal validity. It is
our right and duty to contrast consistency and incon-
sistency, order and disorder, truth and error, and in
so doing bring out the beauty of the one and deformity
of the other. Success in behalf of truth demands

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

109

this. Men will not seek their happiness and well-
being in a better form of society, till they realize the
falseness of the conditions to which they are now
subject, and the impotence of the. Church and its
functionaries-the pris d o
moral police of ChrJtd roi-to-aecoiplish forman
what his highest good demands.
"Our theme for to-niorrow is an old and hack-
neyed one, but what I shall say will have the merit of
being said in my own way."


V'

CHAPTER VIII
INFLUENCE OF CIRCUMSTANCES OVER THE
-      INDIVIDUAL.
"THE circumstances of the individual may be divid-
ed into three classes: 1. The antenatal; or those which
affect him before birth. 2. The infantile; or those
in which he is placed from birth till the years of con-
scious reason. 3. The conscious; or those which
surround him after reason is sufficiently developed to
recognize itself and the circumstances in which it is
placed
"1. The antenatal. The first pair of human beings
had a determinate organization' of mind, and from
this organization resulted a determinate character.
The character existed in the midst of circumstances
by which it was more or less affected. If the day
was beautiful, the breeze balmy, the earth. radiant
with primeval bloom, and the groves-God's first
temples-vocal with the music of winged worship-
ers, the contemplator caught the spirit of Nature
and a flood of happiness overwhelmed his mind.
But if these soul-stirring circumstances were reversed,
changed from glory to gloom, the mind would expe-
rience a corresponding change. Such would be the
tendency of circumstances.
" The transmission of mental qualities from parent
to child, is not a capricious or arbitrary result. . By
the law of hereditary descent, different characters
are inherited by the offspring of the same parents, in
consequence of the different phases of character

Il

which the latter experience at different times., The
character of the child at birth, is, therefore, deter-
mined by circumstances over which it has no con-
trol, acting in accordance with general law. So far,
it is the creature of circumstances.
"2. During the first year of his existence, the individ-
ual has not the power, if he iad the will, to create the
circumstances by which he shall be affected. The in-
fant's nurse modifies and creates those circumstances.
If she provide it suitable food, make it comfortable, and
exhibit in its presence an exemplary disposition, her
charge will be affected for good. The contrary cir-
cumstances would affect it for evil.
"That these things influence the child no one doubts.
Whether the nurse be good-humored or morose, the
tendency is to inspire acorresponding disposition.
When she laughs, the child laughs: when she looks
sullen, and speaks with tones of voice to match, the
child's countenance and voice are in a great measure
but the reflection of hers. She affects it by her own
magnetism through its impressibility. Its character,
therefore, and its doings so far, are all the result of
circumstances acting by general law;-circumstances
over which the mind, affected thereby, has. not the
least control. They first determined the mould of the
mind, and thus far they have developed it.
"13. The.conscious. The child progresses, and at
length arrives at-that period of life when the powers
of observation and reason are sufficiently developed
to distinguish right from wrong, good from evil, as
existent in the prevailing ethics. ,The mind can now
will with a degree of intelligence, and it may be said
that-it is no longer the creature of circumstances.
This, however, is not true; unless, first, the .will is
an independent:power, and, secgndly,. can always
be executed.. fBut, these propositions are false, as I
shall proceed to show.

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.         113

" Upon no subject does there- seem to be such a
general befogment as upon this of the will. The
truth is, that the will is free, and not free; and this
is the paradox that puzzles so many. No one of
sane mind but feels his will free. He never acts but
according' to his will, and wills what he pleases.
The will, therefore, is an independent, self-determin-
ing faculty. Such superficiality becomes self-evident
truth to the most of persons.
" A certain stickler for such notions paid me a
visit once upon a time. He had rode forty miles
without anything to eat, and was very hungry. I
set him a basket of fruit, and remarked that as his
will was free, he could eat or not as he pleased, but
that supper would soon be'ready. 'I will to eat,'
said he, and suiting the action to the word, went to
work and did great execution. So much fruit did
not do well after so long a fast, and he had a hard
night of it.
"The next time he came, I proffered the same, but
he replied: 'I should prefer to eat no fruit till after
supper.'
"6You will differently," said I, "to what you did on
the occasion of your last visit."
"'O yes,' said he, 'my will is free-I will as I
please.'
"But why did you will to eat fruit before?"
"i was hungry, and not being aware of the effect
of so much fruit on a rather weak stomach, after
so long a fast, I willed to eat.'
" But why not will to eat now? you are as hungry
as then"
"'I remember my experince,' responded he, a little
irritated.
"Then," said I, as blandly as possible, "hunger,
with ignorance, determined your will in the first in-
stance;-in the second it is determined by enlight-

ened intellect., The state of your faculties in both
cases determined your will. Their state 'in the one
case was excited  alimentiveness and uninformed
reason ; in the other, it is enlightened judgment."
"I emphasized the last two words, and as my
friend seemed to be somewhat flattered, I ventured
to proceed:
"6By mental faculties, I mean, of course, the appe-
tites, passions, propensities, sentiments, &amp;c., as well
s the intellectual powers. Though some of these
are manifested more particularly in the body,yet they
ex,.t in the mind, anA-I shall speak of them as mental
faculties.
"My friend saw that I was preparing for a siege,
and became a little nervous. lie hitched round on
his chair, and looked toward the pantry in a manner
altogether unanswerable, except by something more
substantial than logic. - He was in no mood to hear
explanations, and preferred to be helped to a slice of
beefsteak, rather than to conviction of error;- and so
I abstained for the present.
"After alimentivness-was gratified, combativeness
and destructiveness became less excitable, and he
seemed disposed to chat a little. He 'contended that
the inebriate could abstain from intoxicating drinks
whenever he pleased.
"Yes," said I, "while he wills to abstain, he can."
"'And he can will thus,' was the response, 'when-
ever he wants to.'
"Very good," I answered, "but sometimes he
don't want to: why is -it that he wants to sometimes
and at other times not?"
""Because he don't will it so,' said he:
"That is," I went on to say, "he don't abstain be-
cause he don't will to; and- the reason-he dan't will
to abstain, is because he don't will to will to abstain;
and the reason he don't will to will to abstains is be-
cause he don't will to will to will to abstain!

112             SOCIETY AS IT IS


"My friend began to look wild. I continned:
" A naughty boy in school pinched those next him.
The teacher found it out and asked him what he.did
it for. 'Because,' was the reason rendered. 'But,'
said the teacher,'the reason: 1 want to know the
reason why you did so?' 'Because,' he replied as
promptly as before. That boy, continued I, if he
keeps on will make a first rate free-will philosopher.
"My guest was evidently nettled, but the diges-
tive functions had got fairly under way, and he had
too copious a supply of good humor to get much out
of sorts.
" When a reason is asked for, said I, a reason
should be rendered. The reason why the vacillat-
ing inebriate wills to-day one way, and to-morrow
another, is that the faculties of his mind are in differ-
ent states. To-day" alimentiveness is predominant,
and determines the will in favor of drinking ; to-mor-
row an enlightened conscience is supreme, and it de-
termines the will against drinking.
"Now what is true of the intemperate, is also
true of the despondent, choleric, licentious, &amp;c., &amp;c.
The mind of the drunkard is a human mind. What
is philosophically true in reference to the determin-
ing of his will, is true of all other classes of minds.
The state of his mental faculties determines his will,
and hence the state of the mental faculties of any
other individual determinesthat individuaL's will.
"By this time my friend had got a cigar lit, and
with his chin tilted back, and his foot against the top
of the jam, he was puffing away with the greatest
nonchalance imaginable.
"'Isn't that speech about through with?' he in-
quired, looking gravely. 'Hasn't will something
to do in determining the state of the faculties? It's
a poor rule that wont work both ways.'
" We shall see, said I. The melancholy xman is

114

SOCIETY AS IT IS

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

115

informed of the law of moral discipline,.and at once
his thoughts take a different direction '. The state of
his faculties change from despondence to comparative
cheerfulness. Similar changes may occur with men
beset with. other failings. In the case supposed,
there is a power exerted over the state of the facul-
ties and it is changed. Now, is that power the mere
force of will?  It may do to say so in common
parlance,, but it is not philosophically true. Infor-
mation concerning a law of mind acted on'reason and
conscience; and thus produced the change in question.
The change was wrought, not by will self-determined,
but by the circumstance of communicated knowledge
acting on the faculties themselves.
"This brings us to the consideration of. the in-
fluence of circumstances in determining the state of
the faculties.
"I shall still use the case of the drunkard, and take
as circumstances the grog-shop and temperance re-
form. When the first tempts, it gives supremacy to
'the appetite. When the lecturer persuades,.predom-
inance is given to the moral sentiments. In the one
case, the state of the faculties is so determined by the
circumstance that it leads to the excesses of:drunk-
enness ; in the other, the state of the faculties is'so
operated on by the circumstance, that it leads to the
initiatory stages of reformation. Then, he willedto
drink to excess; now, he wills to live a sober. aid
worthy life. He wills in both cases as he wants to ;
that is, as the state of the. faculties determine. -and
the circumstances determine the state of the, facul.
ties; therefore do circumstances; control the will,
through their influence on the state of the faculties.
"But let us try the case further. The inebriate
has willed, whilst under the control of the moral and
intellectual. faculties, to drink to excess no more.
He happens in the vicinity of a grog.shop, and a


0116              SOCIETY AS IT Is

struggle ensues between two classes of faculties.
The higher ones endeavor .to retain the supremacy ;
the lower to gain it. The former say to him:
'Touch not, it is poison.' The latter say: 'Partake
freely, it will do you good.' The faculties are
balanced in their influence, and no will at all is the
result. He neither advances nor recedes. The mind
is undecided.
" Along comes an old toper, pats the wavering
man on the shoulder, and says with real zest : 'Come,
let's have something to drink.' In the twinkling of
an eye, the will is fashioned according to the influence
of this circumstance, and executed to the -tune of
half a dozen glasses. The predetermined will not to'
drink, is thus superceded by the will to drink, in
consequence of the operation of circumstances on the
state of the faculties.
" Next week he happens at the same stand-still
point, with his back against the door-cheek, and his
eye on the well-stored bar,-he hesitates. Along
comes a Washingtonian, and taking him by the arm,
says kindly: ' Come, let us go and hear Father
Matthew to-night.' This circumstance determines.
the will according to its legitimate tendency, and the
inebriate walks off as much relieved as the victim
who has just escaped the charm of a viper. Thus
the will is confirmed in consequence of circum-
stances which brought the faculties back to that state
in which they had previously determined the will.
It is clear enough, from these considerations, that'
circumstances exercise an influence in determining
the state of the faculties.
" But there is another consideration, I proceeded
to say, which must not be overlooked, and that is
the influence of the mental constitution in deter-
mining the state of the faculties.
" There is a vast difference between. the state of

AND AS ET SHOULD BE. 17
the faculties and the constitution of the mind. -The
latter is the relate developientiof the faculties, and
changes only by very slow processes. The former
is the relative activity of the faculties, and may
change a thousand times in a day. No two men have
mental constitutions precisely alike. If the consti-
tution of the human mind were precisely the same in
every .individual, then would all be affected in like
manner by the same circumstances. The same cir-
cumstances would universally induce the same state
of the faculties. But such we know is not the case.
"Circumstances which would give a certain state
of the faculties to one mind, mav not be strong
enough to give the same state to another. The son
of inebriate parents inherits a depraved appetite for
stimulants, and -a little. temptation will carryshim into
all the excesses of debauchery. The son of -strictly
temperate parents does not inherit the morbid taste
for alcoholic drinks, and it will require circumstances
of greater force to make-him a drunkard. ,We may
conceive the mind of a third, so organized as to bid
defiance to all influence of this nature, and maintain
its will to live soberly in spite of all circumstances to
the contrary. It is, consequently, clear enough that
circumstances affect --differently minds of a different
constitution~; therefore, mental constitution has' much
to do in the determining of the state of the faculties.
"Other examples confirm this conclusion. Circum..
stances of adversity act very differently on one wh.
is liable to despondency, and on another who is
always hopeful. Circumstances of insult affect one
with large self-esteem and combativeness'very differ'
ently from one with these organs small; and thus to
the end of the chapter.
"From what has been: said, the following con-
clusions maybe deduced
"1.' The constitution' of the mind and the circium-


AND AS IT SHOULD -BE.          1-19"

stances in which it is placed, determine the state of
the faculties.
" 2. The state of the faculties determines the will.
Therefore,
" 3. The will is determined by the mental consti-
stitution and the circumstances which affect it.
Consequently,
" 4. The mind can not will independently of the
circumstances which affect it, and the bent given it
by its peculiar constitution; To which may be added
the two following:
"5. The character of the man-his voluntary
doings, whether of good or evil-result from the
nature of his will. This is a self-evident proposition,
and will be gainsayed by no one. Taken in con-
nection with the foregoing conclusions, it warrants
another step:
"6. The character is determined by the mental
constitution and the circumstances which determine
the will through their influence on the state of the
faculties.
" By this time, my friend was bowing to me at
regular intervals with peculiar grace. I fancied that
I was making a deep impression on his mind, and got
in great earnest, but afterward discovered that he
was only in a comfortable dose, and out of the reach
of my logical missiles.
" Having shown that will is not an independent
power, it remains to show that it can not always be
executed.
"There are two difficulties in the way of acting
out the will: 1. Physical necessity. A man in a
dungeon may will to get out, and try its execution,
but is prevented by strong walls, massive doors, and
iron bolts. 2. Moral necessity. The melancholy
man in a moment of cheerfulness may will never to
despond again; but an east wind blows, or adversity

comes,, and despondency is sure to fcilow, in spite of
every effort to the contrary. The irritable manin 'a
moment of good nature wills to keep his temper for
all time to come. A train of vexatious circumstances
affect him, and in spite of predetermined volition, he
falls into a passion. The execution of will, in these
cases, depends on continuing the same state of facul-
ties which obtained when the will was determined.
But circumstances change that state, a counter will
ensues, and is executed; consequently there arecases
in which a particular will can. not be carried into
effect for the counter influence of another.
"It follows, therefore, from what has now been
presented: -1. That will is not an independent, self-
determining power.  2. That it cannot always be
executed; consequently it is not true that the..mind,
after the dawn of conscious reason, is no longer the
creature of circumstances. It is affected by circum-
stances as well after that period as before.- The differ,
ence is, that before the dawn of reason it exercises no
control at all over the circumstances which affect it, or
else only an unconscious one; whereas, afterward,
it exercise a conscious control.
It might seem,'. interposed Charles, 'that the
proposition you have assumed as self-evident, is hardly
consistent, with the conclusion that will can not
always be carried into effect.'
"'When," said the-other in reply, "the will is pre-
vented from being carried into effect by physical
necessity, the character is nevertheless in harmony
therewith. The will is mentally executed, even if it
should not receive expression in the outward act.
Whosoever looketh on a ;woman to lust after her,
ha.th already committed an- adultery in his heart.'
The complexion of the will and of 'the character
correspond.
-"When, deliberate . or predetermined will is

118             SOCIETY AS IT, IS


thwarted in outward expression, by the intervention
of an instantaneous or impulsive will, it is will, never-
theless, that is executed, and the character of the
individual, as established by his conduct, corresponds
to the vacillations of his will."
"But," said Charles, " if volition is executed men-
tally, whether expressed outwardly or not, why urge
its limitation by physical necessity, in support of the
general proposition that man is the creature of
circumstances?-"
" Merely," replied the other, " to show the various
ways in which the circumstances affect the creature:
first, as we have shown, by acting upon the will; and
secondly, as in some cases, by preventing. the reali-
zation of the act willed."
"One more point," remarked Charles. "You
have said that the conscious individual exercises a
conscious control over his circumstances; does not
this invalidate your doctrine as to man's being the
creatureof circumstances? "
"Let us discuss this phase of the subject more
fully," said Charles' mentor.-
"The man who daily getsdrunk amidst the tempta-
tions of a tippling-house, may take advantage of a
mood of mind in which reason and conscience pre-
dominate over alimentiveness, to remove to the
country out of the reach of vicious temptation. If
he have not nerve enough to remain out of harm's
way, the stronger control of a friend or two may
support his weaker arm, and by moral combination
the circumstances may be controlled .The impatient
man, in a mood when enlightened conscience rules,
may leave vexatious business and place himself under
soothing influences. The licentious man may leave
Paris, and breathe the frigid atmosphere of the
Rhappists at Economy. The low-spirited man may
leave the life of the hermit and seek exhilerating

120

SOCIETY AS IT IS

AND - AS IT SHOULD' BE.

12

society. The avaricious man may leave Wall steet,
retire into 'rural quietude, and commune with the
disinterested and intellectual.
"This is the only way in which mankind can escape
the tyranny of circumstances. Those circumstances
amongst which the man moves, exercise a controlling
influence over his mind, and, character. -Some- are
bad, some good; he 'must seek the friendship of one
clas -to thwart the tyranny of the other. If his
judgment is enlightened and conscience strengthened,
the man 'of easy besetting' sins may take advantage
of a favorable state of the faculties to will a change
of circumstances, and execute the will. If he isnot
strong enough to execute it, he may call in the sup-
port of others with more moral energy than himself,
and thus he- may flee temptation. The scriptural
mode of resisting Satan is to flee from him.- Those
devotees of the Bible who think they can will for the
best and do what they will, and under this delusion
go into vicious associations, too often consummate
their own ruin. Instead of running after Satan or
daring him, they would consult'their own safety to
flee from him when he-pursueth. It would be well
to heed what Paul says: ' For the good that I would,
I do not: but the evil which Iwould not; that I'do.'
If those who really reverence Paul but' understood
the import of this' confession, and the truth it "-con-
tains, it would do them a deal of -good. They would
urge less' the mere force of will, and try unore to
give a proper adjustment to the circumstances by
which the members of the Church are influenced.
Their religion would be a working one; it 'would
have substantial reality in it, and lkss of the gossamer
They would not tell us that we can do anything we
will, and will whatever they tell us :-tWo issever-
ations as false as their own Prince of Darkness.
"In this connection, we must discriminate between
11


0

in

SOCIay AS IT IS

settled will or purpose, and impulsive will. The first
arises from deliberate action of the mind ; the second
from a Inore impulsive emotion, passion, appetite, or
desire. The latter, as we have shown, often pre-
vents the fulfilment of the former.
" If my judgment-is enlightened, I may form the
general or deliberate will to do the best for my indi-
vidual happiness, and the well-being of those around
me; and yet, as Paul says, 'the.good that I would,
I do not; but the evil which 1 would not, that I do.'
"Now, by virtue of this general will, we may
endeavor so to change our circumstances as to re-
move the occasions of vicious impulse, and bring the
emotional will in subordination to that which is delib-
erate. It is thus -that we may control our circum-
stances. But let it be understood, that in the first
place the will to control them has 'to be formed ; and
this is done through the influence of moral circum-
stances acting upon the mind. As, for example, when
the inebriate leaves temptation, he does so because
the circumstances of knowledge and   experience
determine a state of the faculties which-results in the
will' to flee the haunts of drunkenness; and this will,
while the faculties are in. a favorable state therefor,
is carried into effect. The moral aid of others is but
the addition of circumstances with the same tendency.
"Inasmuch as circumstances acting on the mind
determine the will, by virtue of which we control
certain-conditions; such control, therefore, does not
disprove the influence. f circumstances over the
will, and through ,it o er us.
-" In the briefest manner possible, I shall recapitu-
late the reasoning presented:.
"1. The constitution of the mind is determined
before the dawn of consciousness, by circumstances
acting in accordance with hereditary and other laws.
"2. After this period, circumstances, acting upon

193p

this constitution of mind, determine the stte:of. the
faculties.
"3. The state of the faculties determines the will.
" 4. The will and character correspond.
5. The mind can exercise.a control over circum.
stances only in consequence of othertircumstances
like those of moral enlightenment, education, xpe-
rience, and such as hereditarily affect the constitution
of mind.. Therefore,
"6. Man is the creature of circumstances."
Charles observed, that to designate man as the
creature- of-'circumstances, seems to imply that he is
nothing.. within hignself;but rather a thing, brought
into being by circumstances, and fashioned.thereby,
in-all the-essentials as well as 'in all the accidents of
character. To which his friend responded:
" Man has an individuality, an. inherent capacity,
which makes him lord of earth, and is carrying him
upward in the scale, of being,. But this 'lordship,' as
James says1 is developed by circumstances, and until
it is developed man is brutish. Certain circumstances
acting upon a brute would .leave it a brute stil; but
acting upon man would develop his capacity and make
him truly himself. When the bustling clashing world
is still, and the soul is calm and, at one, with ;tself and
God, heaven flows in from above. The soulis then
itself, and .aspires to harmony and happiness. -t
would that the circumstances were such-thait 'could
ever actualize its idea. But, even now,iienseious
that a train of untoward events or unfavorable con,
ditions may prevent such actualization, and:even bury
and benumb for seasons- the aspiration and.the ideal
But, true Io itself, it wills a change ,of the cesditions
whieh beset.the-pathwath of its aturnstarives to
achieve the possibilities of its desti-ny.,Oonsious cf
the power of. circumstances, it Mwould.make-them
favorable to its. freedom and -eleatipadon.. -fIAt the

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.


104            SOCIETY AS IT IS
consciousness of its own nature and .capacities, is
brought out by development, and development by the
circumstances of education; and it is thus that man
is the creature ofcircumstances. With this qualifica-
tion, I presume you will understand what meaning I
attach to the phrase."
j"I think I understand you," said Charles; "but if
man be thus under the control of the conditions with
which he is surrounded, wherein is the consistency
of praise or blame ?"
"Praise and blame," replied his friend, "are neces-
sities of our nature under existing circumstances.
Like some other features of mental manifestation,
they do not stop for the sanctions of philosophical
consistency. It would be foolish to get angry at the
maniac who strikes us, and yet this is what every
irritable man with large combativeness would do.
The impulse would be too quick for 'reason, and
though a sense of propriety might prevent any out-
ward' manifestation of the feeling, it would exist
within, nevertheless. The great and good Owen
himself, who, upon the merits of this doctrine,' dis-
cards all anger, blame, and the like, admits that he
might be angry for a moment with those who should
wrong him.
"If, because he is the creature of circumstances,
I am to excuse my neighbor who purposely and
maliciously does me mischief, then must I excuse my
other neighbor vho blames me for my-errors. The
one who throws down my fence to let in his cattle,
and the other who blames him for doing so, and me
for enduring it so patiently, are both alike 'the
creatures of circumstances; and if I excuse wrong
doing in the one, I must excuse blame in the other.
We must-remove the occasions and causes of anger,
ill-will, censure, blame, hatred, revenge &amp;c., it we
would cleanse the human heart of these impurities.

I

I

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

15

True philosophy, acting directly upon the individual,
may do something, but it is only through. its action
upon the conditions of society 'that the regeneration
of the human heart is to be consummated.'
"Praise, or fraternal approval, springs ..up in the
human heart with equal spontaniety, -but it is not
desirable that'the occasions thereof should ever past
'away, and- they never, will. What is evil: must
perish,.but the good will last forever."
"Another difficulty,", said Charles. -"If man be
the creature of circumstances, what becomes-of his
accountability ?"
4Now. you have roused the ' bugaboo,"' answered
the other. "This is the Martelian club with which
all valiant freewillers knock the" infidel' necessity in
the head.
"6The popular idea of accountability culminates in
the popular notion of-the generall judgment.'"In
that 'great day,' Christ,-as judge,,is going to institute
his court, summon all men before the august tribunals
open.the books in which their deeds are duly re.
corded, and judge them by the record. From this
decision there is no appeal, and the righteousshall
go into.everlasting happiness, but the-unrighteous into
everlasting misery,-poor 'souls ! how we pity them.!
is it not sad that so good a being as the 'God of love"
has not as much goodness as we 'depraved' mortals?
"This doctrine represents God as exercising a per
sonal and special supervision over the-doings of every
individual;-a heathen idea, and diametrically' op-
posed to that view of the divine government -which
supposes it to be carriedon by general and immu-
table law. Hence, 'accountability, under' the two
modes of government, would be very different.
"The doctrine of moral discipline o  s tp th
whole mystery of human accou     iity. Maris
amenable to the laws of his being, and whenever he

I

1


126              SOCIETY AS IT IS

transgresses, he suffers the inevitable penalty. This
is the length and breadth of human accountability,
and what need of more?   Its tendency is to correc-
tion, progress, happiness.      .
"Man is accountable-to no laws but those of God,
and they execute themselves without judge, jury, or
sheriff. So far as the laws of society are in harmony
with these, so far has society no right to inflict pun-
ishment ;-God's own laws do that for themselves.
Whenever society attempts such a thing, it adds
pain beyond what is provided for in the divine code
of Nature, and thereby sins against God' and man.
It is the business of society to reform, not punish;
but it should seek, above all things, to remove the
causes of transgression.
"So far as the laws of society are not at one with
the code universal, to inflict punishment for their
violation is for society to erect itself into a god, or
creative power, and thus by its usurpation become
satanic. In such case, it inflicts punishment con-
trary to the divine code, throws itself across the path
of progress, wrongs the individual, dares God. Of
accountability which leads to such results, there had
better be none."
" Assuredly," responded Charles, "this view of
human accountability has beauty, justice, and con-
sistency to recommend it. I thank you for the
pleasure and profit of this interview. I accept your
reasoning and conclusions throughout; but there is
one point which I feel, rather than see, that you have
hardly insisted on with sufficient emphasis. That is
the influence of principle, or rule of conduct received
into the mind, in the determining of its volition.
"In illustration, we will suppose. two minds. of
precisely the same constitution. One has been un-
der the teachings of Hosea Ballou, and believes that
all men will be alike happy hereafter, whatever their

A1ND AS ? SiOUtiD BE.         127
conduct here. The other has been' taught the true
science of mind, and understands the -law of moral
discipline; Their minds, originally alike, now become
very different by virtue of-thle peculiar doctrines
each accepts. The latter looks upon life on earth as
the rudimental 'school of eternity, and is careful
to secure the full measure of its discipline; while the
other-sees no connection. between the life which now
is and-that which is to come. With the one, life on
earth is the boyhood, which, owing to the extent and
quality of its culture, determines-the initial character
of the man; 'with the other, there is -no necessary
relation between the education of the boy and the
characteristics of early manhood.. Now the one,
armed with the law of moral 4liscipline, goes forth
into the world, resolved to do as- judgment and con-
science dictate, and amidst the strongest temptations,
universally triumphs as the hero of right; while the
other, beset in the same way, and without the armor
of -correct principles, girds .up his will with no
stringent resolve, but abandons it, with a laxity of
moral purpose, to the-facinations of sin, and he be-
comes steeped in sensuality. The direction given to
the mind, or in other words the state in to' which the.
faculties are thrown by the' power of a principle
accepted, is . proof withy one against temptation, and
he stands; while with the other, a different state of
the faculties, brought about by the acceptance of a
different doctrine, presents no barrier to thelinroads
of sin, and he falls. In this we discover the influence
of faith in making the-conduct good or-bad. But it is
certainly very clear, notwithstanding, that the faith, is
but a condition or circumstance' which operatesoin
the state of the 'faculties, and thus determines4he will,
and through-it the conduct, or outward manifestation
of character."
" I am}- glad, friendly Charles," replied the other

l

I


'128

SOCrE'TY AS IT IS

" that you perceive so clearly the nature and ten-
dency of those doctrines which form the basis of all
radical and efficient social reform; and I might al-
most consent to become your pupil in the matter
to which you refer. But there is one consideration
which you have omitted, and that is that the very
noblest of father Adam's progeny have their strong
besetting sins. Where the highest mountains are,
there are the deepest valleys, and we often find great
moral strength coupled with great moral weakness.
The mind susceptible of an inspiration which aston-
ishes the world with its unearthly brilliance, has its
seasons of reaction, and then is dull and sluggish.
An insidious temptation, skillfully devised, with
a good position and masked battery, opened upon
the weakest point at a critical moment, may
overthrow a moral giant. But few men, however,
are moral giants, and perhaps there is no one of all
the children of humanity, but is better off for the in-
fluence of favorable circumstances, and worse off for
coming in contact with the moral blight which lurks
in a thousand insidious forms in society as it is.
When surrounded with temptation as it now exists,
the man with weak moral resolve is overcome; while
the man with strong moral purpose is pained at the
constant effort he is compelled to make in the keep-
ing of his moral balance,-is pained at the triumph
of sin over his weaker brother, and the moral desola-
tion which surrounds him.
"A mere doctrine of faith received into the cham-
bers of the mind, will not save the soul. If the
faith or doctrine is good and true, it is a means of
salvation, but not the only one. It may serve as a
pilot to carry us through the rocks and shoals ; but
it is only by turning it to account in the removal of
the causes Qf danger and disaster, that we prove our
wisdom by our works and make our faith a living

lov

AND AS IT SWoULD BE.            129
reality. It is the interest of all, the highest interest
of humanity, and should be its greatest endeavor, to
change the social conditions-create a favorable state
of-the circumstances ly the reorganization of society.
. In -our first interview, we ascertained, the irnpor-
tance to human happiness of a strict observance of the
laws upon which that happiness depends as determined
by the divine government. In our second, we ascer-
tained that those dogmas which are held- up to the
world as talismans:of salvation. and happiness, are
altogether inadequate to bring about such mnomen-
tous results. In our third, we have ascertained that
man is the creature of circumstances, and that his
happiness depends on the conditions to which he has
been and is subjected. It remains to show how those
conditions may be brought about, which are destined
to work out for man a far more exceeding weight of
glory and happiness than any he has yet expe-
rienced.
"To-morrow, Charles, as usual. The morning
is ours' as well as ' the future.' Good bye."
NoTE.-I feel impelled to say, by way of a note, that
soeof my first reading was Owen and Campbell's debate.
I read it a the time to satisfy myself with reference to
the historical evidences of Christianity, and was abun-
dantly pleased with t1le lawyer-like arguments of Alex-
ander Campbell. I was a predestinarian at the time,-and
agreed with Owen on the subject of the will, but further
than this, his calm, and I might say tame manner of pre-
senting his philosophy, made no impression on my unde-.
veloped mind. Upon completing the volume, I was
deeply impressed with Campbell's -own notion that he had
achieved a great triumph, and so I thought no more of
Owenism. Nine years afterwards, I wrote the principal
part ofte m r in  tis se hapter, just as it occurs here,
without knowing or suspecting ,that any one else had
treated the subject in a similar way, or made it the
12


for social reform, and at the same time its basis.
I hadteie term "creature of circumstances," but where it
came from I did not know. That I did not reproduce
the notions of Owen, I know from the fact that when I
read him I did not understand, to say nothing of appre-
iatin g, his views. And besides that, in treating the sub-
sect, viewed it from my own stand-point, andectosire
it in the light of Phrenological science, in conecton adi--h
my own observation and consciousness. The only addi-
tions which have been made in consequence of having
resketched the debate, are the paragraphs on blame, in
which it will be seen I differ from Owen.

he

"Association, and that only, is the remedy for exist-
ing evils. Man is formed for co-operation and broth-
erhood, not for isolation and antagonism. There are
two tendencies in his nature. The one pertains to
self,the other to his brethren. That, when prevented,
becomes cold selfishness and leads to gloomy isola-
tion; this, unbalanced and extreme, deprives the
individual of a due reliance upon self, tends to merge
him into the mass, or make him the arasite of others
more positive. But so strongly define imvt e. uman
character is the element of individuality, that it would
be hard to conceive of any form  of society which
could so successfully repress it, as the fraternal
element has been repressed by the present form of
society and those out of which it has grown.
"1Whatever may be the character of the circum-
stances to which man is subject, the inherent neces-
sities of his nature will more or less manifest them-
selves in his life. -The present state of things favors
the development of the element of self-hood into a
most extravagant and sordid egotism. But though'
there is so much now to drive men asunder and
weaken the ties of fraternity, yet'these ties exist, and
exercise no trivial influence over the intercourse of
man with man. However cramped and distorted
they often are, there are, nevertheless, continual

* ''

CHAPTER IX.
CAPITAL AND INTEREST MATHEMATI CALLY
CONSIDERED.

SOCIETY AS IT IS

130


132

SOCIETY AS IT IS

manifestations of fraternity. No part of human
nature can be annihilated, though it may be sup-
pressed and perverted, or remain undeveloped for a
season.
"The plan of society which should now be put into
operation, is that which would be adapted to man as
he is, and calculated, at the same time, to further the
development of his whole nature in the full harmony
of its constituent parts. Man's individuality must
be retained, while, at the same time, his relationship
of love and co-operation with his fellow-man must
be fully established. True individuality can be the
most surely developed when man becomes the true
brother of man.
"Having felt the wrongs of prevailing social condi-.
tions, certain individuals of the race, prompted by
the fraternal impulse, have, at different periods of
humanitary progress, burst through the barriers of a
contracted selfishness, and entered, what seemed to
them, the realms of a freer life.
"Of these social enterprises, there are two great
classes. In the one, a community of goods obtain;
in the other, individual possession. To the former,
we may refer the Essenes, Shakers, and followers of
Owen; to the latter, the followers of Fourier and of
Warren.
"Of these, omitting the last, who are little known as
yet, the communists, so far as the permanency of their
institutions is concerned, seem to have been the most
successful. But notwithstanding this compliment of
experimental success to the principles of the com-
munists, those social doctrines which disallow the
community of goods, seem to be, in our times, by far
the most popular. This may result from the strong
hold which cupidity has upon the human heart, and
in consequence of which association can only appeal
as a plausible scheme to such as talk theory better

I

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

133

than liveki'uth. But whether this be the case or not
we will presume that individual possession is the right
mode in a true scheme of society, and proceed to
consider some of the -conditions of association, as
they pertain to the theory and practice of the dis-
ciples of Fourier.
"Fourieristic association, in striking dividends,
recognises three claimants:----LaborSkill and Capital.
To labor, the scheme gives five-twelfths, to capital
four-twelfths, to skill three-twelfths. This basis of
apportionment did not stand the test of experiment
Capital had undue advantages, and proved too much
for labor. In attempting to escape the oppression of
capital, labor but expo §ed itself in association to the
surer domination of the same tyrant. Those prac-
tical-p1att
tical attempts failed, and the laborer fled from the
barriers they reared to the freer fields of society as
it is. The abuses of capital in isolation, and the
abuses of capital in association, together with the
pangs which labor has suffered in consequence, have
led to much inquiry as to the nature of capital, its
true uses, and the place which should be assigned it
in association.,
"In society as it is, we are all witnesses to the
mighty power which capital wields in the affairs, not
of individuals only, but of states-and. nations. Cap-
ital commands all the sources and means-of wealth,
and so far as the accumulation of property is con-
cerned, it is a god-send to him who has it, and knows
how to use it.
" If an individual of wealth were toenter an asso-
ciation and take his capital along, - it would be a
means, if skilfully directed, of making the scheme
successfully a money -point of view. Here, then, is
the query: Should this member' receive any part of
the income as adividend to his capital?  The plan of
Fourier, as we have seen, makes this provision, atd

I.

ti
1


I

134              SOCIETY AS iT IS
would give to capital even more than could be right-
fully due for the advantages derived therefrom. It
will not do to give capital too much in association;
but does it deserve anything? and if so, how much?
" But first let us inquire a little into the nature of
capital, and the manner in which it becomes the
instrument of property-getting.
" The earth, with its soil, forests, quarries, mines,
waters, and atmosphere, is the source of all physical
wealth. Food and clothing are drawn directly or
indirectly from the soil, the atmosphere, and the
waters ; the implements of art, structures for dwel-
ling and navigation, from the mines, quarries and
forests. But all these are not spontaneously pro-
duced and fitted for man's use. The timber must be
cut down and shaped into serviceable -forms; the
mines must be worked, and much of the material
thus procured, carried through various processes of
refining, before it is adapted to the uses intended.
The waters will only yield up their treasures to man
at his bidding. The soil must be tilled for 'the staff
of life,' the raw materials of clothing, and the sus-
tenance of animals which man uses, in so many ways,
laying them under tribute for labor, food and raiment.
"The animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms are
made available to human uses by human effort. The
wealth which they contain can only be realized by
labor on the part of man. The earth, therefore,
with its mines, quarries, soil, forests, waters, and
atmosphere, is the source of all physical wealth, and
human labor the means. Wealth is derived by human
energy acting upon the materials which Nature
affords.
"Capital has nothing to do with the creation of
wealth. It can neither fell the forest, fish the lakes
and rivers, work the' mines, plow the .soil, prepare
the food, build the houses and ships, fashion the tool,

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

135

shear the sheep, gin the cotton, nor manufacture the
clothing. The human hand, directed by the human
mind, so as to take advantage of the mechanical
powers through machinery and animals, creates all
wealth and makes it subservient to the uses of man.
Capital may be made, and is made, by skilful manage-
ment, to command the labor of others, and thus.appro-
priate the wealth they create to such as control the
capital ; but in this transaction the earth is the source
and labor the means of all the wealth thus produced.
Capital may be the means in existing chaos °of com-
bining the labor; but after that, it plays the thief, robs
the producer of his own creations, takes the bread
from himself and family and gives it tothe capitalist,
who is already surfeited, and whose hands are ever
idle. Capital exercises none of the powers of pro-
duction. In a scientific point of view, it is neither a
source nor means of wealth, and has no share what-
ever in its creation.
.Suppose a colony of persons from the midst of
civilization were to go to some island, yet in its prim-
itive wilderness. When they get there they have
plenty of silver, gold, and bank notes, and all these
we will call capital. Beside, they have nothing in
the shape of property, except their clothing, and
sone implements for which they may find immediate
use. The island is theirs-as the earth is the people's,
and they must go to work and procure the means of
life. There is neither labor nor commodities in the
wild woods of their new home to, purchase, and so
they have no use for their capital. They are without
food and without shelter. One can not provide these
things for another, as his own destitution must be
supplied. Capital, with all its vaunted potency, is
evidently without any avail whatever. The island
and all that pertains to it are theirs by right, and
nothing but human exertion will administer to their
wants.


i

136

SOCIETY AS IT IS

"X Where civilization has fully developed its abuses,
the capital would serve to buy up the labor of such
as are denied their right to the soil, and have no other
means of procuring the necessaries of life than by
laboring for those who hold a monopoly of the
natural elements, and in consequence, a monopoly of
the general means of subsistence. The capitalist
alone has the direction of labor; he has forestalled
the avenues to its useful expenditure, and the poor
laborer is glad to get the privilege of waking even
at the disadvantage of giving his employer the one-
half or three-fourths of all that ,he produces. But
in our new settlement this is not the case. No mo-
nopoly there of the fields of labor, and none of the
means of life. Each man works directly, or by an
exchange of labor, for himself; and so capital is ut-
terly useless.
"Some engage in the chase, some go with their
nets to the waters, others gather nuts and culinary
vegetables, and thus they procure their food. Some
provide the shelter of temporary huts, and others
clear away the forest and prepare the soil for tillage.
" At the end of five years, by industry well di-
rected, they find themselves in comfortable circum-
stances. They have good houses, with enough of the
necessaries, conveniences and comforts of life,-
they have plenty to eat and wear.
"Now whence and how did all these things come?
From the crude store-houses of nature, by the hand
of man. Capital had no part nor lot in the matter;
and thus is all wealth produced.
"But we have supposed that these people had
capital. They locked it up in their chests, and at
the end of five years took it out, and counted it to
see what the gain was. In civilization, they had
learned to consider that capital was a productive
agent, or, at least, that it was self-propagating, and

AND AS IT SHOULD BE,

137

would by some natural and inevitable process in-
crease in quantity ; or rather, that 'dollars and.
dimes' would - beget dollars and dimes, upon the
principle that everything brings forth after its own
kind. Well, when they came to examine their stock,
they found no increase. Jacob of old managed to
get an increase of cattle ring-streaked, speckled, and
spotted, but our friends of the island hadn't a 'red
back' under five years of age; and some-mirabile
dictu-were dead !  But this lugubrious mishap, you
will understand, Charles, is confidential, and has
nothing to do with the present investigation.
"If all this capital had been put into one chest, its
combined power would have been utterly impotent
to add a single farthing to itself. - Such being the
case, Is capital scientifically entitled to interest,?
As we have seen capital, absolutely considered, is not
a productive - power, cannot create, a particle of
wealth, therefore, in a scientific point of view, it is
not, entitled to any consideration whatever, in the
way of interest, dividend, privilege, or any other
form of reward.
"This is conclusive, but, we will look into the mat-
tera little farther.
"What is capital? Apart from, the consideration
of its employment in trade, it is meant to be the
representative of surplus wealth.  If I 'raise.' one
hundred bushels of wheat more than I want, I give it
to some one who needs it., and receive-in return, one
hundred dollars, which.sum I keep as the representa-
tive of my surplus wealth. What 1 eat and wear
perishes ; what he eats and wears perishes: but all
else that we have produced remains, except so far as
it is perishable .in itself. My family consumed one
hundred bushels of wheat, and - his one hundred-
this was all I grew. But I have one hundred dollars,
which represents.my surplus production. He made


138

SOCIETY -AS IT IS

two hundred dollars worth of furniture for his neigh-
.bor, and consumed one hundred dollars worth of it in
wheat, which he procured of me. He has still one
hundred dollars left, and that stands for his surplus
production.
"Now, is the one hundred dollars which he holds
and the one hundred which I hold, entitled to inter-
est'? My one hundred dollars stands for me in place
of my one hundred bushels of wheat, which would
have perished in a very few years ; but I saved it by
finding a family in need of it. My one hundred dol-
lars, as the representative of value, is worth more
without interest at the end of five years, than my
wheat would have been. In like manner, my friend's
one hundred dollars stands with him for half the
furniture he disposed of to his neighbor, and at the
end of five years will be worth more to him without
interest than the furniture would be, inasmuch as
he had no use for it, and the alternations of heat and
cold, damp and drought, with the accidents to which
it would be subject, would injure its polish and dimin-
ish its real value. Then, why should either of us
get interest for what stands to us as the representa-
tive of our surplus productions? In point of science
we are entitled to none.
" The two hundred dollars worth of furniture
which the neighbor got has not received anything in
the shape of interest or increase any way, for it was
presumed to be worth just the naked sum of two
hundred dollars and no more. It is decreasing, not
gaining in value, but the use of it is presumed to
equal the loss of 'wear and tear.' This two hun-
dred dollars worth of property stands against the
two hundred dollars which the mechanic and myself
hold; for, it was paid first to him and then half of it
to me, and now we each hold one hundred dollars of
it as the representative of our surplus, which has

I

ANB AS IT SHOULD 'BE.

139

passed directly from the mechanic, and' indirectly
from me into the hands of him who had originally the
two hundred dollars. Now, if this furniture -gains
nothing in the way of interest, and it cannot, then
are the one hundred -dollars which I hold,- and
the one hundred dollars which the mechanic holds
not'entitled to anything whatever in any form of
increase.
"It might be objected to this reasoning that inas-
much as the two hundred dollars cash in hand involve
the probabilities of interest, therefore, when my
neighbor pays out for furniture he gives two hun-
dred dollars plus the chances of future gain. This
however, does not obtain in practice; it cannot.
It is the capitalist that gets rich. In consumption
there is no speculation. What we eat, wear, or use
as furniture, perishes, and by no sort of calculation
in dollars and cents, can it be made to affect its price
reckoned with interest.  Hear father. Livewell's
story:
"'Fifty years ago,' said he, 'friend Hardy and
myself were out on an excursion, and had to be from
home over night. I got supper, lodging and break-
fast, for which I paid one dollar ; but he had a lunch
in his pocket which cost him next to nothing, and
he lay under a big tree and saved his dollar. That
he put out at interest next day, has realized ten per-
cent per annum compound interest on it ever since,
and now that we are old he taunts me with my dear
night's lodging.'
"It is thus, my friend Charles, that the substantials
of life, its necessaries, conveniences, comforts stand
at a disadvantage with the representative'of surplus
wealth. Scientific equality between them can only
be brought about by denying interest to capital.
While the means of subsistence get no interest; capi-
tal is scientifically entitled to none. This is a math-
ematical truth, and there is no gainsaying it.

.1


"We have now      decided that capital does not
produce wealth, and is consequently entitled to no
dividend. This, the grand trouble, disposed of, we
e may proceed to mature a plan for reorganization.
It is proposed that capital shall get nothing,.and la-
bor all; that guaranties out of the general income,
not exceeding one-fourth of the same, shall be pro-
vided against juvenile ignorance, casualities, sickness,
old age, &amp;c., and that the admission fee for all resi-
dent members shall be one hundred dollars. Shall
this be our plan, Charles?"
And with these words the Socialist abruptly de-
parted.
S,

CHAPTER X.
CHARLES CONSIDERS THIS PLAN.
CHARLES thought for awhile, and. then began to
write: "It appears that experimental socialism. has
not been very generally successful, and so.there must
have been some wrong. If the, error has been the
dividend given to capital, it does not follow that we
apply the remedy in giving all to labor. I admit
that scientifically, abstractly, theoretically, absolutely,
mathematically considered, capital is.eititled to noth-
ing in the way of gain. In atrue state of society it ~
would in no manner contribute to the accumulation
of wealth, and should, therefore, get nothing. If an-
association embraced all the useful handicrafts and
natural resources-were a little world within itself,
and dependent for nothing, then would capital as an
agency of gain be unknown. Mutual exchange upon
a just basis would exclude it'. Some ,representative
of surplus labor would still exist, but would not' be
employed as at present, in buying up human toil and
the natural elements, and consequently would.not be
capital in the technical sense of the term.~ Labor in
that case would be properly rewarded, and the evi-
dence, so far as required, of its surplus productions,.
whether in the form of metal or paper, not- being
used with a view to profit, would, of course, be en-
titled to no-dividend, and could get none.
" But suppose .I admit all this as' demonstrated.
truth, does it follow that in association, which is a
trasitiqn from a false to.a true state, capital makes
nothing, -and should, therefore, get nothing?  Of

P
,
t,
.

SOCIETY AS IT 15

140

,A
.r


4

I

142

SOCIETY AS IT IS

course not. There is no logical connection between
the premises and the conclusion. In the one case
society is presumed to be in the true state ; in the
other, in a state of transition. The conditions are
different, and, therefore, I have no logical authority
to assume that money is entitled to no gain in the
one case, because it is entitled to none in the other,
"There is, moreover, a difference between positive
and relative right; between absolute truth and ex-
pediency. What is adapted to the condition of the
race at one period of its progress may not be adapt-
ed to its condition at a subsequent period. When
the adaptation between the principle and the stage
of human progress is complete, the principle is rela-
tively true; but when, by the advance of mind, that
adaptation ceases, the principle becomes relatively
false. To society in a false condition, principles, even
true in themselves, may not be adapted, and their
place have to be supplied by those absolutely false.
Just so, as long as society is in an unnatural condition,
as it will be till peace and happiness are the legitimate
result of societa-ry arrangements, so long will the
necessity exist which alienates principles absolutely
true, and adopts those which, though abstractly false,
are relatively true.
"For example, to a true state of the nations, war
would be utterly unknown. It is intrinsically a fals-
ity ; yet such has been, and still is the condition of the
moral, social, and political world, that the truly up-
right must resort to this means for the vindication of
. the rights of man; and in this respect, even war,
bloodly, ghastly, cruel as it must be, is justifiable.
Washington and his compatriots did right to flash
their swords in the face of tyranny; and Hungary,
and Rome, and France, and Germany, and the down-
trodden everywhere who know their rights, but have
them not, would do the bidding of humanity, to

143

crush their oppressors even by the bloody heel of
Mars.
"What is absolutely wrong may be relatively right.,
Just so, dividend to capital is wrong in an.abstract
sense, yet might not ,circumstances exist of such. 4
character in a scheme of transition, that justice would
demand the dividend ?
"In ang association capital, would. be employed -to
buy up the material resources of the earth, which
should be free, but are not, and therefore must be
bought;. and also to obtain the labor of those outside
of association, in two ways: directly, by hiring help,
and indirectly by the purchase of machinery, which
labor has wrought out of- the. natural materials, and
thus would capital contribute to the" money-making
operations of the community. All this. could not
happen in a really true state of society. The metals,
'labor notes,' or whatever else- represents surplus la-
bor, could not contribute there to the accumulation
of property, and so could receive..no dividend. But
in an -association they do contribute to the increase
of wealth, and should they not, therefore, receive a
certain percentage of the gain ? If capital, because
it does not increase, in a scientific point -of view, is
scientifically entitled  to nothing, why, then, if it
does practically increase, is it not practically entitled
to reward?  I do not mean to;say that it is. .What
I would be understood to say, is, that the, reasoning
which proves the representative ;of surplus labor en-
titled - to no increase in a true state of society, or
scientifically entitled to none, does not prove that it
should receive nothing in an association, a state. of
society which is but a harbinger of the true one.
" In Fourieristic establishments, capital gotla shmre
of the proceeds, and all of these establishments but
one have gone down. Capital way ka 'canker in the
real bone,sinew, and muscle, and dissolution followed.

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.          145

144              SOCIETY AS IT IS
Is not that a reason why capital should get nothing?
No. Suppose we form an association and provide
that capital shall be rewarded only after labor and
skill receive more in association than they can get
out of it; then do we abandon the Fourier principle
upon which capital in those unsuccessful establish-
ments' received its dividends. In these, capital got
kill are  paid  m or-erthan  they  get  ouside  The  con
ditions in the two cases are totally different, and con-
sequently it does not follow that because the Fourier-
istic establishment went down ours would too. That
is clear enough. Ours might fail, but what I would
insist on, is, that its downfall cannot be logically in-
ferred from the downfall of the others. There is no
analogy, and, therefore, if we' would learn whether
ours will or will not fall, we must abandon analogical
inference, and resort to independent and original in-
vestigation.
"But this is not all the trouble. While the plan
sketched by my friend gives no dividend to capital,
it makes no provision by which more than the initia-
tion fee of one hundred dollars is to be brought in
and retained. This presumes too largely upon the
disinterestedness of those who might see fit to enter
association. It places no barrier in the way of the
sordid selfishness of such as might be tempted to ren-
der service to Mammon.
" Men might go into such an establishment with
very good intentions, but since no restraint is im-
posed on selfishness or speculation; the example of
but one delinquent might become contagious and in-
fect all the less scrupulous to the subversion of jus-
tice, harmony, and good feeling. And it is possible,
even probable, if the history of association teaches
anything, that such an arrangement would subject
the more liberal, generous, and disinterested, to treat

meant at once unfraternal and unjust, at the hands of
those for whom the 'almighty dollar' has such pa-
tent charms. And as to the ,query whether such   I
would or would not enter association, let Ceresio and
other organizations answer by their sad fate.
"A, by hisindustry, has earned two thousand dol-
lars; B, by his negligence, nothing. They go into
partnership and erect a mill. This absorbs all- A's
capital and the labor of both for a year. They put
it in operation and attend it themselves. A has the
mental temperament in predominance, and to be true
to his nature, works but five hours per day. 13 is
large and muscular and endures twice as long.- The
mill, with their labor, clears them nine hundred dol-
Jars per annum. A gets three hundred.; B six hun-
dred. B finds this a royal business,'and no better as-
sociationist than he can be found in all socialdom.
He regularly invests his income in speculation exclu-
sively his own. He still continues his partnership in
the mill with A, and reaps twice as much from A's
capital as the owner himself, while A gets not one
particle of the proceeds of his. By means of the sel-
fish use of his gains, B finds himself, at the end of
five years, a wealthier man than A; and this is the
reward of his former slothfulness and present selfish-
ness.
.".Now, precisely such a case of selfishness and in-
justice might occur under my friend's plan. There is
nothing in its provisions to prevent it. The disinter-
ested might bring in funds for the promotion of the
enterprise and the good of all, while others would
look exclusively to their own selfish interests without
returning an equivalent to those upon whose capital
they are fattening. Under such a scheme there
would either not be enough capital retained in asso-
ciation, or if there were, the advantages of economy
and the temptation to prey upon the capital of oth,
13


SOCIETY AS IT IS

ers would attract the selfish, and thus the generous
and fraternal would be victimized as effectually as
they now are in isolation.
 " But there is still another trouble. It is fine to
provide against juvenile ignorance, but .that which
attaches to a maturer age should be met as promptly.
And further, such as have fairly begun the higher
development of mind, should be furnished with the
means of carrying it on. The mind should have a
guarantee. Let a certain proportion of the income
be set apart for books, papers, periodicals, apparatus,
lectures, and other appliances of knowledge. It will
then be a true school of humanity, and without this
it can have no very great attractions for such as are
intent upon the development of true self-hood."
When the unknown Socialist came the following
day, Charles produced his reflections, and they were
kindly received.
" l'am glad," said the good man, "that you have
been thinking. It augurs well for our progress, and
I am encouraged to proceed. None but the stupid
accept such things without due consideration ; and
none but the prejudiced reject them without consid-
eration at all. The rational and consistent would
obey Paul: 'Prove all things; hold fast to that which
is good.' I am glad that you belong to this class."
Charles is just one of this kind. He is an admirer
of the 'chief apostle to the Gentiles,' and thinks that
reformers now.a-days should be as bold, independent,
and rational as he.
"1 remember well," said Charles in reply to his
friend, "that the greatest heroism which has ever
dazzled or gladdened the race has been of the hum-
blest origin. I remember Moses amongst the rushes,
Christ in the manger, Luther an obscure monk,' and
very many more lowly and unknown, until, through
the prowes of their own great spirits, the world be-
came conscious of the depth of the humanity within

146

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

them and the inward fulness of their glory. For this
reason I reject nothing because it comes from an
humble or an unknown source. But while I reject
not, neither do I accept, because of the origin whether
high or low, well-known or obscure. Truth is truth
whatever the character of the individual medium
through which it comes, and I promptly and joyfully
accept it,;-and the same is true of falsehood, which
I as unhesitatingly reject."
"If I have understood you rightly," said the
stranger, in allusion to Charles' written remarks, "you
urge three objections to the, plan proposed at our last
interview, for your consideration.
"1. That capital is scientifically entitled to no in-
terest, is not proof that it should get nothing in asso-
ciation, to the wealth and success of which it con-
tributes.
" 2. To give capital nothing, and then demand of
each member but one hundred dollars as a permanent
investment, would not keep capital stock enough in
the association, or if it did, would make the disin-
terested a prey to the selfish.
"3. There are no guarantees to mind; thus neglect-
ing the highest interest which it is our pride and glory
to cherish.
" I admit the validity of these objections, and con.
cede at once that they are conclusive against the
scheme. All these difficulties will be considered in
due time. But with reference to the first I may here
say, that, although the scientific conditions of surplus
wealth do not obtain in association, yet it does not
follow that capital should receive a share of the in-
come. What my views upon this.point are,swill ap-
pear at our next interview. I will then proceed to
show, as you suggest, by independent considerations,
what seems to me the true mode of dealing with
capital in association.

14''


CATER XI.
LABOR AND CAPITAL IN ASSOCIATION.
"I may observe, in the first place, that in the
establishing of an association there are other objects
to be kept in view besides, that of mere perpetuity.
Permanence is the one thing indispensable ; but this
would not be desirable, if the social good aimed at
in the undertaking should fail to be realized. An
association based upon much falsehood may endure,
as the history of association proves. I would aim
at something higher than mere perpetuity and suc-
cessful money-getting. I would, if possible, establish
it upon such principles as are consistent with them-
selves and with each other, adapted to the circum-
stances with which they are connected, and which
would, moreover, in their practical operations, carry
out the high purposes for which we enter or should,
enter association.
"With respect to the reasons for granting or re-
fusing a premium to capital, there are two contin-
gencies to be looked at. The one has reference to
the dissolution of the association, and the other to
its perpetuity. Demonstrate the practicability and
enduring permanence of an association, and so far
from wanting dividend to capital, 1 would not even
want capital itself. I want property only as the
means of sustaining life and providing whatever may
be legitimately desirable. In the wide world there
are so many uncertainties, and so much grasping and
unfairness, and when charity does come, is so grudg-

-i

ing and cold, that property, and as much as one can
get by the means his conscience sanctions, is what
almost every one instinctively pounces upon as the
only guarantee against misery and starvation. but
in a successful association, certain of perpetuity, the
means of life and its comforts would be guaranteed
to me and mine and theirs forever. A few hours'
labor per day-as much as would retain physical
vigor and give me an appetite for food-would suffice
for my support, and I would be sure of the same ad-
vantages for those who come after me, and in whose
welfare and happiness I should naturally feel an in-
terest. With these advantages present, and those
glorious certainties for the future, I would be con-
tent without capital--ten thousand tires more con-
tent than now with it. -I would say, therefore, that
when fraternal co-operation is demonstrated with
respect to present and perpetual success, capital can-.
not, upon, any plea of necessity, justice, or expedi-
ency, claim anything in the. shape of dividends. And
I would, moreover, act upon the: presumption of
perpetuity until the omens of a different fate should
become 'unmistakable.
"But in the event of a dissolution, shall capital
get any increase? In such a contingency, the ele-
ments of the association- would be separated to
mingle again with those of ordinary society. In the
affairs of isolation, capital is rewarded, and if it had
never been put into association, it would have drawn
interest, and should we not in the event of a dissolu-
tion, give it something to make up for the sacrifices
it has made? Before answering-this question, let us
ask another, and see what the answer is.
"Should a woman in association receive as much
for an hour's work as a man ? It cannot be denied
that as a general thing she would make .less money
per hour -for the establishment than her more able

.E

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

149


150      j     oCIETY AS IT IS
bodied companion ; should we, therefore, give her
equal wages, or should we not? This question may
be answered with reference to the contingencies of
perpetuity or dissolution. If the association is to be
perpetual, then. as in the case of capital, we can afford
to do justice, as scientifically demonstrated and de-
fined, and give equal remuneration to both kinds of
labor. Scientific justice would give no increase to
capital, and. in an association of enduring perma-
nency, no apology could be made for any. Just so
with respect to male and female labor. Absolute
justice would make no distinction in this respect
between the sexes, and in an association sure of per-
petuity, no sophistry could set up any plea for more
reward to one than to the other.. The analogy is
complete.
" But how would it be in the event of a dissolution?
In that contingency, the association would be re-
solved into its elements, to mingle again with those
of society as it is. In the prevailing social methods,
a man gets more for his work than a woman, he
would have got more if he had not gone into associa-
tion, and now in the event of its dissolution, should
we not give something extra to make up for the sac-
rifices he has made? It will be readily seen that we
have now placed, first, labor and capital, and second-
ly, male and female labor, in a position In which they
are perfectly parallel. If in the event of a dissolution
we persist in making no amends to male labor for its
relative losses, we must also persist in refusing inter-
est or dividend to capital for the relative losses it
has sustained. The parallel is complete, and, if we
would be consistent, what we would do in the one
case we must do in the other.
"Suppose that by way of settling this diffeult we
would, in the case of dissolution, make some allow-
ance to male labor for its relative losses. *In society

151

as it is, man is the stronger and gets relatively more
than he deserves; woman is the weaker and gets
absolutely and relatively less than she is jutly n
titled to. By making amends to man for his relative
losses, we strengthen the stronger and weaken the
weaker, and then turn them out, 'male and female,'
amongst the hyenas of prevailing society; the one to
triumph and oppress, the other to make herself agree-
able to her lord and superior, and merge her existence
Into his for the sake of protection. Just so in the
case of labor and capital. Labor, in prevailing
society, is the weaker, and capital the stronger if
we make amends to the latter for its relative losses,
we increase the stronger and detract from the weak-
er, and turn them out upon society; the one to'tri-
umph and oppress, the other to cringe and fawn upon
its master for the meanest -reward. I would, there-
fore, in the event of a dissolution, make no amends
to male labor, and none to capital."
"Your analogy is certainly correct," said Charles,
" but still it does not prove that capital in association
should not get reward.    The false relations of
society outside, from which the association cannot
wholly free itself, may make the endurance of cer-
tain evils a necessity. This obtains in governments.
Our nation could not with safety, if it would, neglect
its armory,  arsenals, fortifications, army, navy, &amp;c.
Such is the state of our frontier and the political
world in general, that we must keep up some of the
preparations of war. So in association. The laws reg-
ulating the ownership and descent of property migt
conflict with the internal arrangements of the com-
munity, and compel it to endure grievances, take pre-
cautions, or establish conditions adapting it to the
unavoidable circumstances. Now, might not inter-
est or dividend to capital be one of those necessary
grievances or conditions? You have not shown
that it is not."

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

I j R


" That dividend to capital," replied the other, "is
not a necessary evil, will appear more fully from
what is yet to say. It will be seen that so far from
being a necessary evil, it is an evil which, if done
away with in association, will facilitate justice be-
tween member and member. It has already appeared
that justice is subserved by refusing dividend to
capital, since by such refusal we disregard that custom
of false society which takes from the weaker and
gives to the stronger.
"If the necessity of the evil should not appear in
the course of our investigation, we may fairly pre-
sume that it does not exist. As I do not see it, nor
know where to look after it, it would seem to be-
hoove you, Charles, to show wherein it is. When
you say that preparation for war is a necessary
evil, I understand you, since I see clearly the neces-
sity for such preparation. When you say that the
laws of the state regulating property matters might
impose restraints on an association, from which, under
other circumstances, it would be free, I understand
you; since if the internal regulations of the associa-
tion are different from those of the state, such pre-
caution must be taken as will adapt the one to the
other. Now state in what way it is that the consid-
erations and emoluments given to capital outside of
association will compel us inside to do it like honor,
and 1 will look into your arguments.'"
"I have no such arguments to present," replied
Charles, " I anticipate the disposition you would
make of the difficulties, and it was to verify my pre-
monitions that I made the objection."
"I presume, Charles, we understand each other,"
said the Socialist smiling.
" If I were to say," continued Charles, "wherein
dividend to capital might be a necessary evil in
association, I would instance three cases: 1. Justice

SOCIETY AS IT IS

152

betweerrmember and member. 2. To bring capital
nto association. 2.  o retain it." -
" Charles, you are bring  it tohe points
and I am glad of it," responded his friend. _'1t wijI
appear in tha course of thi investigation, tha
establish justice and to bring ihand retaineapitalit
is utterly unnecessary to introduce; the-falsehood of
grantig considerations to -an-agent absolutely non-
productive.
"Since consistency requires it, since justice is po
moted thereby, and -since- no neeessitfprevent i
capital n association should obtain no dividend.
"Now, does it follow from this doctrine thatlabor
should get, all?  Certainly not. If there were  o
recipients but these two, labor and capital, then in-
deed would it follow, that if the latter be allowed no
share of the income and increase- of wealth"in an
association, labor must get all: but such are 'not
the condi-tions. There is another party besides labor
and capital; to which a portion of the ineass of
wealth may be given.
"First, let us attend to what labor should  t
how it should get it.g I would give to labor '  that
it makes by its own energies, and by the use of the
capital it employs, but I would give it no nmore
t" It would  e proper here to discriminate between
two kids of capital and two kinds of labor  Capital
may consist. of labor invested directly by the hand of
the workman; or labor invested indirectly -i  the
shape of coin, paper, or whatever else may be the
representative of labor.  The first kind may be
called labor-capital; th'e other inonev-eapitat:
Labor consists of one kind,hich brings its reb
ward annually or oftener; andalso of iohr   m-
ployedupod 'fixtures and the like, which does not
renuneate itself at all. The first may balled
remunei'atve labor arid the ether ronremunetv
14

AND AS IT - SHULD'-BE.

X53


154             SOCIETY AS IT IS
Labor.capital, therefore, and non-remunerative labor
are identical--precisely one and the same thing.
"When, therefore, I speak of capital, I mean the
two kinds, money and labor-capital; and when I speak
of labor with reference to its share of gain,,I mean re-
munerative labor only.
"In ascertaining what labor makes by its own
energies and the capital it uses, let us begin with the
year. The first step would be for the association to
keep an account of all the time spent in farming,
gardening, and whatever else is remunerative, whether
the remuneration comes in the shape of productions
for domestic use, or money for productions sold. In
this account of time make no difference between sex,
speed of working, or quality, but. count an hour an
hour. Then as the products are gathered, or made
available, either by use or sale, make an account of.
their value. Out of this sum deduct the wear and
tear of machinery, implements, &amp;c., the expense of
getting to market, of keeping up teams and the like;
and the remainder will be the net proceeds of such
labor, assisted by the capital it employs. Divide this
result by the number of hours labored, and we get
the amount earned per hour. Having now both the
number of hours and the net income per hour of all,
we can easily reckon what each shall receive for that
year's labor."
"Al) that, is clear enough," said Charles, "but
what will we do with the workman who has spent
all his time upon non-remunerative labor ?"
"I would say," replied the Socialist, " give him
just as much per hour as remunerative labor earns in.
that time, during any particular year for which the
reckoning is made., Deduct from his year's earnings,
thus ascertained, what he is charged with for board,
clothing, &amp;c., and the result will show thE amount
of labor-capital he has invested for that year."

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.           155
"But," interposed Charles, "suppose I work at
non-remunerative -labor the year round, and then
want available funds for my education or a visit to'
my friends, how am I to get them ?"
" There will be no difficulty about that," replied
his friend. - "The two kinds of labor for any year
are in a sense the common possession of all. In
making a dividend of the same, no regard whatever
will be had to what kind of labor any particular per-
son worked at.. If my labor has been of the remun-
erative kind, and yours not--if I want to invest and
you not, I am credited with so much stock, and you
take the ready -money.   The exchange will be
mutual, and so far as any individual is concerned it
makes no sort of difference what may have been the
kind of his labor."
"Again," observed Charles; "is it just to give two
workmen the same wages per hour, when one does
twice as much as the other in the same time?"
"It certainly is just," was the prompt reply,
"provided the slow  workman is engaged at that
business in the association for which he is best fitted
by nature and practice. If nature has given him an
unfortunate temperament and mental organization,
he may, nevertheless, require as much of this world's
good for the sustenance of himself and family, as"the
one who can do twice as much labor in the same
time. It would, therefore, be unjust to put him off
with reduced wsges. But if he does bad work,
while there are other occupations in which he may
do better, then if he persist in following a business
foreign to his capacity, his wages must be relatively
reduced. But such cases would seldom happen ;-
never, exceptwhen ambition, pride, or vanity out-
runs common sense ; for people generally like that'
business best, for which their talents fit-them."
But," said Charles, "there is another probable

l


SOCIETY AS IT IS

source of wealth to the association, besides the earn-
ings of labor. The property may increase in value
in consequence of the general improvement of the
country around. To whom shall ..this increase be
given ?"
"Well, Charles, that is a matter of some difficulty,"
replied his friend, " it is important, too, and deserves
attention.
"teWith regard to this subject, we may name two
conditions:  1. When the, property  has dimin-
ished in value, and the question is: . Who shall suf-
fer the loss? 2. When it has increased in value, and
the question is: Who shall receive the gain?"
" Now we must find some rule existing in the na-
ture of things, by which to adjust both the loss and
gain. If we dispose of the loss according to one
principle and the gain according to another, we
adopt a kind of partyism, involving inconsistency and
injustice.
njWell, lay it down as a rule, that capital is merely
an engine in the hands of labor, and that when there is
gain, labor should get it. It follows, that when there
is loss, labor must endure it. But how will this
work?   One thousand dollars is invested in a domain
for an association, and -in consequence of some unfor-
seen calamity, it is reduced in value one-half the
first year.. Labor can't sustain this loss. It takes
all, perhaps or nearly all the labor to feed and clothe
the laborers and their families, and there is little ,or
none left to meet the loss, and it will not do to hang
an incubus upon the future of labor to weigh down
the soul and unnerve the arm of the toiler. Labor
results in the production of wealth, and this is either
needed for present uses or it is not. What is required
for food and raiment cannot be taken to meet pecu-
niary losses, and what is not thus required is surplus
wealth, and is reckoned as capital within less than a

156

157

year. Indeed, as soon as there is any reckoning
made, itis -deemed'capital as much as' that which
wascoriginally invested. Unless, therefore, we  run
up scores' fot' future labor to 'wipe out,' we cannot
'saddle', it with the loss. Our rule is manifestly at
fault, and we. must look for another- Since labor
cannot be supposed, upon any reasonableagrouds, to
suffer the loss, we are not authorized, by any princi-
plcease lgrenor justice, to give it the gain in case of
increase, unless some other element enter -into.our
ruleand determine such a distribution. But such an
elementdoes notappear.
ofCthpitl, as we have seen, must, from a necessity
of the case, have to suffer the loss.* Shall we, there-
fore, give capital the gain? ?Capital did not make
the gain, any more than labor did, and besides.that,
we have, decided -that capital shall 'ntude'ay
circumstances, receive increase. We cannot, ethere-
fore, give the gain to capital.
"Suppose, then, we make our rule such' that all
the inmates of the association, without distinction of
age, sex, or condition shall get this gain.. Now, this
would work very well while, the property increases
in value and -there is gain to distribute   but it would
not work well when 'there is. decrease in value and
lossto endure. A famy with many small children
could not very well endure such a divide of misfor-
tune. That rule, therefore, which  would give the
* This loss would. of course, only be allotted to individuals in
Bithe tigeicy of a dissolution, or the withdrawal of 'nembe"s.
But if the enterprise, should go on, labor would- actua llysfeh
loss. This would be the ease, siceu,n  ,ua ly cu erthe
made an instrun ptality in the hands of labor to the 'cuisition
of wealth If te loss should be eventually retrieve capital
Wud nnvr kow anything of its, foxmmer .depr iatj n -t his
would be true of all losses, whether reslizg on uparedur y
e    ons aid improvewents, or from ravages-by  eid,wave,
or war.     -      ---Yfrs                 dwe

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.


changes of loss and gain to the inmates of an associa-
tion, indiscriminately, is not to be relied- on.
" We have now tried these three rules:  1. The in-
crease to labor; -2. To capital; 3. To the inmates in-
discriminately; and these three rules have been found
wanting. What then is the true one?
" Let us lay down certain principles which are
generally admitted as true:
"1. It is the highest interest of the individual to
act upon those principles which develop the most
fully and freely the harmonies of his God-given
nature; or, to suit a different style of thinking, we
may say that the great object of man's probation int
this sphere of existence, is to develop the higher
qualities of his nature, and fit himself for the enjoy-
ment of happiness here and hereafter.
"2. It is impossible to use the means of such exalt-
ing culture, unless the individual is relieved from all
drudgery of toil more than nature requires for health
and a lively flow of spirits.
"3. So far as relief from drudgery is concerned,
there should be no distinction made between individ-
uals on account of age, sex, or occupation.
" 4. Lastly, if association would carry out the
highest purposes within its reach, it must not only
give relief from  brute toil, but also procure the
means of high development, and secure the equality
of all with respect thereto, in proportion to their
needs: and herein would I look for the rule by which
to dispose of the gain and loss now under consid-
eration.
" Let us understand, therefore, that the 'grand.
object of association is the greatest good to all, in pro-
portion to their needs, and we have the rule. In the
case of loss, we apportion it to capital, for capital
can bear it best; and by this course we promote
rather than destroy the equality of advantages to

158

SOCIETY AS IT IS

the participants. In the case of gain we apportion it
to every individual in the association. Our rule
would require that we give to each in proportion to
his needs; but it would be impossible, in an initiatory
step, to reach this in a practical wayr'and so we
divide equally to all, old and young,-rich and poor.
" This increase ,could only be realized in case of
dissolution, or of a sale, or sales, for the purpose of
removal, or the bringing in of uninvested funds, and
for this reason we may he less scrupulous about
attaining to a precise practical, application of the
rule. The management of-all that pertains to' the
distribution of proceeds and the means of life in
association, should be adjusted, as nearly as can well
be, upon the principle- herein laid down ; and since
there will be available funds, it is to the apportion-.
ment of these, more particularly, that we are to look
for a stricter application of the rule, and the attain-
ment thereby of the real aims and ends of association.
The principle embodied iry the rule and the means of
giving it practical life, will engage our attention more
fully hereafter."
"But What," interposed Charles, "if some one
should deny your.four propositions, or some one, two,
or three of them ?"
"Well," responded his friend, "I should not try
to convince him-it 'would be useless; 'and we
could exchange sentiments on this theme with mut-
ual benefit only after'he had advanced so far, morally
and spiritually, as to, appreciate the truth of those
propositions, in all.-that the principle of -the rule in
question demands."
"Again," observed Charles; "after you    have
obtained the principle, you do not fully recognize; it
in the first attempt at application. What is a rule
worth, if it is not to he applied strictly to pracTice ?"
" This, Charles," said the other in answer, "is one

AND 'AS IT SHOULD BE.

159


100

SOCIETY AS IT IS

of the necessities to which you but lately alluded.
It is out of the question to make a strict application,
in a transition scheme, of all the principles we may
accept as absolutely true. The false or deficiencies
which necessarily obtain prevent the full realization of
every absolute truth. The adjustment of the cor -
ditions of association, is, to a great extent, a matter
of policy rather than of absolute science. The latter
can obtain only when the necessities of undeveloped
humanity shall be so far removed as to give a -freer
scope than now to aspiring man for the actualization
of his ideal. More of this will appear hereafter,"
"I apprehend," .said Charles, "that there is to be
a further discussion of our theme for this interview,
and I would respectfully ask:  If capital is to get
nothing, why lay it liable to suffer a loss?  Has this
difficulty been fully set aside?  Capital is the repre-
sentative of labor, and should it not be preserved
intact?  Would it not be as wrongful to detract
from the value of whatever represents surplus labor
as to defraud labor itself?"
" An affirmative answer to this query might seem
to be very plausible," said the other; "hut still, I do.
not hesitate to say that it would be erroneous.
There is one condition,indeed, upon which the claim
of truthfulness could, with more propriety, be made
for such an answer. If the individual who has cap-
ital has earned it all by his own labor, then would it
be as unjust, in the commercial sense of the word, to
depreciate it as to reduce the reward of his present
labor. But such would not always be the -case.
The scheming of ancestors, the labor of others, the
unjust arrangements of society, are the sources of
much wealth in the 4iands of individuals who have
not bowed themselves to Mammon. But no great
deal of such wealth, however, would go into associa-
tion."

A ND AS IT SHOULD BE.
Charles observed, that "many who enter associa-
tion will have nocapital which-their own hands have
not earned.- Shall that suffer loss ?"
To which the other replied: "If we could. ascer-
tain just what amount of capital has not been earned
by the holder's own labor, we might adjust the nmta
ter by apportioning the loss to the ill-gottengais.
But this could not be ascertained. -      g
"By recollecting that those who hold the largest
amounts of capital are the most, likely to have that
not strictly their own, we, may approach equity by
assigning the loss to capital. By such an adjutment
those who have the most capital will lose the most,
and those who have least, will lose the least.  This
might not be absolute justice, but it approaches as
near it as anything practical of which I can conceive.
" This difficulty shows how hard it is to form rules
which will secure 'to all equal and.exact-justice.'
The falses of existing society will affect :the regula-
tions of an association, and there .is no avoiding it.
We can only turn these ugly necessities 'to the best
possible account."
" There ,is another phase to this affair," remarked
Charles. "Suppose that only such, persons enter
association as have no capital but what they have
fairly  earned. by their own labor; the property
diminishes in value ;-now -iho, or what shall bear
the loss ?"
" There are. but two things-to bear it-" was the
response,, 'capital and labor. Even in this case I
would mete -thploss to capital, was much as it is of
less consequence than labor to the existing necessities
of life.
"But I should say here, that the contingency of lobs
has been discussed more for the sake of giving -yatem
and completeness to (the inv-estigation and its results,
than from any apprehension that-such-a thing as:s
would be likely to occur. The possibility of the


thing is not denied, but its probability in an associa-
tion judiciously managed, would be one of the re-
motest things conceivable in this young and thriving
country of ours."
" But with respect to increase," said Charles,
" there is a view of the subject which you seem to
have overlooked. The increase of value in the real
estate of an association, is the result in part of labor
outside, and since the labor in association tends in
the same manner to enhance the value of property
outside, it might be said that the exchange is mutual,
and that,- consequently, labor within is entitled to all
the gain resulting from labor without."
" We will suppose that it is," replied his friend,
"and since we wish to do justice, we will give labor
all the gain without any reserve. Now let us see
how the plan will work.
" A is a delicately formed man, with nervous tem-
perament and predominant intellect. B is a six-footer,
strongly built, with firm muscles, and not overdone
with nerves. More than four hours' physical labor
becomes repulsive to A; while B is not satisfied with
less than twelve. A, having a higher order of mind
than B, has more legitimate wants; and yet, since
labor gets everything, he gets only one-third as much
means wherewith to gratify them. B loves pelf, and
gets it ; A loves to cultivate his better nature, and
have his family do likewise, but cannot get the
means without imbruling himself by laboring more
than is consistent with his constitution; and then he
is unfitted for any noble effort of mind. Would all
this be right?  Would it not be setting a premium
on mere physical energy at the expense of what is
intellectually and morally nobler? Is it not possible
that after we have escaped from the jaws of capital,
we may incur similar danger from mere animal force,
nerved and animated by the love of gold? Since

162

SOCIETY AS IT IS

AND AS 'IT SHOULD BE.

163

humanity has been crushed by' not giving enough to
labor, will it be lifted up by giving labor too much'?"
"Might not this} difficulty be obviated," said
Charles, "by furnishing A with light, easy work, so
that he might endure his dozen of hours -with B?"'
" That, indeed," responded the other, " would pro-
vide A with an amount of means equal to B's, but he
has more wants, and still is at a disadvantage. But
the great objection to this subterfuge would be, that
it disregards A's legitimate attractions, takes him out
of his proper sphere, and so damns him. Having a
-head, he might escape the penury an'd crushing toil
of isolation, but with us, unless -our associationbe in
a very flourishing condition, he is inevitably doomed.
"But suppose, after all, that' we are not -to judge
by effects-.-that the code of justice has no higher
meaning than to give labor all it creates-does it
follow that labor isr to have all this gain? Is it true
that the increase of value-in the property of an asso-
ciation is the result of a virtual exchange of labor?
or does it not depend upon something entireldiffer-
ent? Does it not arise from tan unnaturalstate-of
society, which enables capital to monopolize the
natural elements, and buy up'the labor of the needy ?
It will not'do to say that we socialists have no more
land than we need for our own use, and that we-nevei
oppress labor. Those outside of association do mo-
nopolize the soil and oppress labor; the increase of
value results in part from the 'increasing facilities for
such 'oppression and such monopoly;' this unaiatural
and vicious state of things in close proximity to the
association, imparts thereto their fiefitious 'values.
And does labor ask to gorge down all that?' As a
laborer, I would spurn such wealth. Labor could
have no- sort of tittle to values iresting on such a
basis; but since it is gain to the association, I would
distribute it with a reference to the great purpose,


i

164              SOCIETY Aa IT IS

end, and aim of association, and , of life itself, as
already specified.
" Not only would I reject such gains as a laborer,
but also as a holder of capital. I would accept them
only upon the grounds of my individuality."
" I quite agree with you," said Charles, "and;per-
haps enough has been said at this interview, .but
there is one consideration which I cannot well for-
bear to mention. It is presumed that labor will be
made attractive to some extent, at least, under the
regulations of an association. Individuals are differ-
ently organized, mentally and physically. One may
enjoy three times as much physical labor as another.
Now, if we give labor all, we pay the members of
an association in proportion to the amount of their
physical enjoyment, so far as industry is attractive
and a source of pleasure. Such a distribution of
wealth would hardly be in accordance with correct
principle. Should I, for playing at work nine hours,
get three times as much for my hand in the game as
you, who enjoy but.three hours of the sport?  This
may be an extreme statement, but it shows the
principle.
"$There is another consideration. The reward for
this physical enjoyment is the means which enables
us to administer to all our wants, physical, organic,
moral, intellectual, spiritual. Now, it would hardly
seem right for the man who enjoys, or let us say
endures, three times as much work as another can,
to obtain three times as great an abundance of these
means of life. The injustice in this case appears more
fully when we consider the fact, as you have already
stated, that the individual who is attracted the fewer
number of hours to physical industry is the more
likely to have higher aspirations and require a greater
supply of means for the satisfaction of his wants.
And if, in addition to this, we add. the probability

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.          165

that his family may, from number, youth, and feeble-
ness, be more expensive to maintain, the injustice
becomes more manifest still."
"1These considerations, Charles," said his friend,
".are to the point. As I conceive, they bear in the
right direction. There seems to be a growing 'con-
viction amongst socialists, that capital should get
nothing, and that, therefore, labor, after meeting
slender guarantees, should get all. This is one" ex-
treme, as formerly- the dividend of one-fourth to
capital was the other. Injustice- to humanity is
wrought out at' either extreme." I know, well that
the whole sum of productions- is claimed to be due
labor, upon the ground that labor is the only 'active
agent in the, creal ion of wealth. Admit the princi-
ple, resolve society-into its: individuals, and what
becomes -of infancy and childhood, of' old age, and
infirmity, without means?  They earn iiothi g, and
so get nothing, according to the principle, and would.
that be the dispensing of an-immutable and eternal
law of justice? But suppose that .this difficulty can
be explained away by reference to family and the
affections, 'still there- are others which do"not adtiit
of such an explanation.
"-The fast workerereates more wealth than the
slow worker, and even if' he' have a smaller family
to support, and fewer legitimate wants to gtatify,
still, according-to the -principle we 'must give fhim
more.  Able-bodied  and  skilful workmen, effect
more than' the: feeble and unskilful; would it be
justice to give them more? 'I repeat, has justideno
higher meaning?  Is there no principle more'equit-
able in its operations, upon which to base the distriWA
bution of proceeds in an association?
"We have alheady-said that there is, said wkt it
is, and yourself willing, friend Oharles we Will de of
our neit °intervieWt further discussion of thesaime,4-


CHAPTER XII.
THE FORMULA OF PARAMOUNT JUSTICE.
' In the first place, let us define that basis of jus-
tice upon which associations, for the most part, have
been heretofore organized. There is a principle called
justice, which has pervaded the whole range of social
philosophy in times past, and derogated from its
character. I do not, by any means, deny that equity
may pertain to the operations of the principle in
question ; it doubtless'may and does.. The error has
been, not in mistaking the particular rule of justice,
but in taking it out of its proper sphere, attempting
to apply it where it does not belong, and thus doing
violence to the best interests of humanity.
" The style of justice which prevails in society may,
be defined, ' The exchange of equivalents.' This
principle, under existing conditions, has its appropri-
ate sphere, and it is well that we understand its laws
and obey them, too; but to make it the cardinal ele-
ment of association is to take it out of its legitimate
orbit and derange the harmonies of justice. There
is a principle of equity which has a higher meaning,
and upon this should association base its government
in all that partains to the substantials of life.
" This lower principle, to which allusion is had,
may, for the sake of distinction, be called commercial
justice. It is to the -definition and illustration of
this, that Andrews' work on the 'cost principle' is
devoted. Upon this principle,- as discovered and ex-
plained by himself, and further illustrated byAndrews,
has Warren founded his 'equitable villages.'  He

n

and his school give a new version of the 'exchange
of equivalents,; and claim that theirs is.the key to all
social reform and true happiness; and to:demonstrate
this is the grand object of their writings and practi-
cal efforts. So far from recognizing the higher order
of justice, Andrews, in the..illustration of his views
respecting, objects of charity, emphatically denies it.
" Fourier and his disciples, so far as I know, have
taken no higher standin this respect than Andrews
and Warren, and have not succeeded so well, inas-
much as they have not had a definite idea of this
kind of justice, while the latter have, or at least seem
to have. Fourier, as we have seen, would reward
skill and capital as well as labor. A 'raw hand.' en-
tering a group is not allowed to draw wages, till  he
has proved himself able to do his part, no matter how
hard he works, how many wants he has- which
ought to be gratified, or how many are dependent
on him for the means of keeping soul and body.to-
gether. The principle recognized in such an arrange-
ment is this:. 'So far as you give to an association,
so far will it give to you-quid piq quo-the mutual
exchange - of equivalents, value being the rule, of
measurement. This would not be justicein the sense
of Warren and Andrews. They -have a supreme
faith in the exchangerof equivalents, but they ,make
cost and not 'al41e the measure of price.
" It is very true that the unskilful or slow worker
creates less wealth than the more fortunate brother;
---his labor is less valuable, and so we will say that
it should receive less. Now,,thissounds for all the
world like a veritable note from the trumpet of jus-
tice;--trumpet, I saty,. for there has been so much
noise made in the sacred narmeof. justice, that it is
doubtful whether she ever had scales worth the name.
Andrews and Warren would reward labor according
to the repugnance overcome.. Underasuch anarrange4
meant an award workman would fare better    But

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

167


16,             SOCIETY AS IT IS
neither the principle which recognizes skill, nor that
which recognizes repugnance, approaches, as I con-
ceive, the true principle to be kept in view, in making
a distribution of the proceeds or incomes of an associ-
ation."
Charles inquired: " You recognize the exchange of
equivalents between man and man as a rule of justice
founded in the nature of things ?"
"Yes, I recognize it as being such under certain
circumstances."
"AYou claim that there is a higher principle of jus-
tice which is outraged, by carrying-the lower rule into
all the business relations of life ?"
"Precisely so."
"What, then, becomes of the unity and harmony
of the moral world? Two moral laws exist, which,
under some circumstances, are antagonistic."
"I might reply in two ways: 1. Metaphysically.
2. By analogy.
s6I. Unity is not destroyed, because there are cir,
cumstances under which the higher law of justice
cannot be made to apply. This results from human
ignorance and selfishness, and hence commercial jus-
tice becomes a necessity, under certain stages of
progress, to the original oneness of design.
"iAbsolute harmony is not disturbed, since discord
can only result from the misguided doings of man by
which the inferior law is applied in cases to which it
does not properly belong; and this obtains only in
undeveloped society, in which the supremacy of the
higher law is not recognized. Harmony is a neces-
sary result of the reign of the higher law.
"2. The physical -universe is full, as every intelli-
gent person knows, of examples in which one law
supercedes another. Thus the attraction of gravita,
tion Is one law and a universal one; the attraction of
theagnet is another, and yet the latter may over-
come the former. The galvanic current; as shown by

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.         169

I

the recent experiments of Prof. Page, may suspend a
heavy bar of iron in mid-air----thus overcoming the
attraction of gravitation. Again, this same law, so-
universal in its effects, is overcome by the organic
powers of the living vegetable. The sap goes up-
ward, though the attraction of gravitation would
draw it downward. Now in these examples there
is not so much as subservience of one law to another,
but, actual antagonism of effects; yet, through the su-
premacy of the higher law, unity and harmony remain
intact, and the great ends of creation are subserved.
"But further: The laws of the animal organism
are higher than the laws of chemical action. Whilst
the latter act in subordination to the requirements of
the organism, they promote its well-being and sub-
serve the organic design. It is thus that the -chemi-
cal changes which oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon un-
dergo in the organs of respiration_ and circulation,
administer to the necessary conditions of the organ-
ism. They subserve the organic design so long as
they act within-.their proper bounds, but if from. any
cause they should transcend these, they become de-
structive of the very organism itself. Give the lungs
pure oxygen to breathe, and this effect would be pro-
duced. The chemical laws would still act, but the
action, though unexceptionably chemical, would- re-
result in violence to the-higher designs of the organic
structure. Just so, the law of commercial justice;
within its proper sphere, subserves the general and
pervading design of progress; but if, like Fourier and
Warren, we attempt to remove it-from that sphere
and take it into a higher, its action becomes subver-
sive of the higher design, and discord and defeat are
sure to follow. The subservience under the'- right
conditions of the- chemical to the organic forces do
no violence to unity and harmony, but really pro-
mote them-; just- so,~the subservience of eodnmeriat
15


1*/D

SOCIETY AS IT IS

justice to the higher principle of progress, so far from
militating against unity and harmony, is a step to
their ultimate realization in the social and moral
world.
"But there is a moral phase to this analogy. There
is a law which gives to the individual the-right to life,
and by virtue of the same law, he must respect the
same right in others. He may, nevertheless, take
life in self-defence, and thus violate a lower require-
ment of the law to vindicate a higher. One law
gives to my neighbor the right to life, and another
the right to property. But, if good Samaritan like,
I should find a brother by the wayside, weak from.
bruises and hunger, and I have neither oil nor bread of
my own, I must take from the plentiful cupboard of
another, even without leave, if by so doing I can
save the life of a fellow-being. The law which gives
to one neighbor the right to life, is higher than that
which gives to the other the right to property. I
can obey the higher only by disobeying the lower,
and I do so without violence, so far as the laws and
rights are concerned, either to unity or to harmony.
"But owing to the difficulty of giving a precise
expression, by means of human language, to every
idea, it is not correct to speak of my takingoil and
bread from my neighbor's cupboard in the case sup-
posed, as a violation of his right to property. He
has the right to property, it is true, but when his
neighbor is on the point of starvation, he has no
right to as much of his abundant means as will be
required to save the famishing man. His neighbor's
right to life being higher than his right to property,
supercedes it, so far as its title to the necessary
amount of oil and bread is concerned, and in taking
them from his cupboard, even by force, I do no vio-
lence to his right of property. Just so with respect
to taking life in self-defence. If the murderer attacks

f
i

T
j
i
,K a
w9
S4.
t..
F
'C

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

me under such circumstances that I cannot save my
life but by taking his, he forgets his own right to life,
and in taking it, therefore, I violate no right of his.
In the moral world, philosophically considered,
there is absolute unity and harmon.. The
laws cannot ideally conflict/wit. ech ottr It is
only practically and necessarily  at they do so  In
all cases of seeming, antagoiism the higher law
ideally supercedes the lower, and thereby subserves
under the grand scheme of progress, the very
poses of unity and harmony. But, practically  f a
man misapprehend the divine decrees, mistake the
lower for the higher law, and attempt to enforce it
where it does not legitimately apply, discord and
misery follow. What we have to'effect in this mat-
ter is to ascertain the grade of the-various laws, the
stage n progress they apply to, and thn if we retain
each in its proper sphere, harmony and happiness
will result. The ideal will be actualized; the abo-
lute made practical.
"Justice requires that we respect the right to pro-
perty, but as many rights as there are higher .than
this, just so many have a higher claim to s tisfaction-
and until this satisfaction' is given, the right to pro
perty, in all cases of seeming contagonism,must ive
way ;-it has no claims--does not xist. The right
to life, as has been stated, is a higher one,and against
the satisfaction of this'right that to property has no
existence whatever. But besides this, are there no
other rights which an association should place above
the right to property?  This is a question of vital
importance, and, as it seems to me, deserves to be
well considered,
"Suppose, for example, I find a family in need,
morally and .intellectually..... famishinginfact, f
Want of good, wholesotne,-spiritual food--woukli not
be under obligt6oas to coitributb of my own unused

i   ,


abundance to the supply of so urgent a need? Is
my right to superabundant property a higher one
than my brother's right to moral and intellectual
improvement ? Do God and nature give me the
right to surfeit in the midst of luxury, and to him the
necessity of starving- to death the highest wants
which pertain toth hanan soul? If I have not the
right to superabundet means which another needs,
has he not the right in an organized capacity with
others to take them? State governments act upon
this principle, and it would not become a community,
aiming at the highest good of humanity, to take a
lower stand.
" Our state abstracts from the wealth of the rich,
for the benefit of those destitute of- property and
the means of education. The wealthiest man of your
township has no children to send to school, and never
received the benefit in his own family of a school-.
tax, yet he pays more than any of his neighbors for
school purposes, and they receive the immediate ben-
efits. Some who know of no higher form of .justice
than that which pertains to trade and commerce, re-
gard school-taxes as most abominably unjust, but it
would hardly become socialists to do so. The ed uca-
tion of our youth is a demand of their highest nature,
and that law which makes provision therefor carries
out the highest intentions of moral justice. I know
very well that the friends of pubhc schools justify
them to the people upon the grounds of the necessary
relation which education bears to the perpetuity of
our free institutions and the security of property. But
this only means that education draws out -the noblest
powers of the human soul, and, in so doing, recom-
mends itself as the best guarantee of property and
republicanism.
" It will not explain away this analogy to say that
in society as it is, the man~ of money acuaultes

In

I~/2  OCIEY AS T UIAND As IT SiftULD BE.

property by the power which his capital gives him
to monopolize labor and the soil, and that he is thus
enabled to pay his taxes, not by his own industry
but by that of others. This principle is not recog
nized by our state policy. It accords to the individual
the right to- all the property he can get by such
means as obtains the general sanction of society -It
recognizes the right -of the speculator to all his
..property, but it also claims for itself a right which
...-supercedes this, and by virtue thereof it takes of the
rich man's funds and appropriates them to the educa-
tion of the poor man's children.
" Since governments-ven despotisms--are - re-
cognizm g the highest wants of the human soul and
contributing to their culture and gratification, to the
evident discomfiture of-that selfishness which knows
nothing nobler than the possession of property, should
not- socialists, who have means beyond their own
needs, contribute freely and willingly of their super-
abundance, to the moral and intellectual culture of
their less favored brethren ? Should they not grant
these bounties for so noble a purpose, not as a chari-
ty, but as a satisfaction to justice ? in an organized
capacity; should not provision be made in the shape
of guarantees for the highest wants of all? There
are bounds, of course, to human effort, but thee-
tent of such provision in association, until the maxim
mum be attained, should- most assuredly be limited
only by pecuniary necessity and the demands of hu-
manity outside.
"I do not pretend to ask that isolated socialists in
the midst of the selfish, grasping world, shall come
forward and be thus liberal. -Under such, circum-
stances the most generous andt benevolent must see
to their-own safety first, and then, if they can, ma
contribute as-prudence dictates, to the wants of t~.
ers. -Bat what I would insist on is, that, in associa.

173


174

SOoIE'T AS IT is

tion, with the means of life guaranteed to them and
theirs, socialists should practically recognize that
principle which demands the highest culture of all.
" The highest form of justice demands for each in-
dividual of the race, those conditions, means, and op-
port unities which contribute most to his happiness.
" This I regard as the highest plane of moral and
distributive justice. I hold that an association, to
do the most good possible, must regard it as such
and strive to ascend. I would make the principle
embodied in the formula, paramount, constitute it the
soul of socialism, and have it infuse life and vigor into
every nerve, limb and organ of the social body..
And I maintain that in order to this all secondary
principles of justice must yield to the supremacy of
this one. If we drive the smaller satellites into con-
tact with the central sun, we turn them from their
proper orbits as the fact of collision proves.
" Fourier and his disciples did violence to this cen-
tral principle of justice, by the very means they in-
stituted to promote it. They did well in their at-
tempts at transition to recognize individuality in
property matters, to merge property interests, and de-
stroy competition, but. they erred in the measures of
justice they adopted. In holding it just to -reward
capital and skill, they adopted the principle without
providing against the legitimate issue of such an
abuse of absolute justice. The fact of granting such
a reward, unbalanced by counteracting provisions,
shows either that the highest form of justice was not
in view when such measures of recognition were ta-
ken, or else that the discrepancy between this high
order of justice and the policy adopted, was not dis-
cerned. Later socialists of this school would give all
gains to labor, and by thus setting a premium on an-
iiaal force, outrage the same cardinal principle, and
promote sensuousness rather than the harmonious

U

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

175

development of the whole man. Warren and An-
drews-recognize individual possession, but would re-
tain competition and establish a system, of comme-
cial justice, make it paramount,aandscarry it  t al
the relations of life to which justice is to have ac-
cess, so as to defeat, as 1 conceive, the highest pur-
poses of our being.
"Schemes like these, and such as the later Fourier-
ites would set on foot, may make very successful
money-getting establishments; but if they ever effect
anythingrof consequence for the ennobling of man,
it will not be because such a result is a necessary part
of the systems, but because elevated and elevating
minds have exerted an influence and produced an ef-
fect not provided, or in the scheme. Nothing, it seems
to me, could be  better calculated to foster the pro-
perty-getting propensity already too strong,---to fos-
ter it at the expense of what is nobler, and develop
the selfishness, envy and hate consequent upon the
individualization and competition of property inter-
ests, than the strife for the possession of labor notes on
others, as provided for in the economy of Warren's
equitable villages. If anything higher than earth-
prone instinct is developed under such social regula-
tions, it will be when a Christ has risen in Nazareth.
It must be developed by an independent energy con-
trary to the legitimate tendencies of the, system.
Since I feel it with all the energies of my nature, I
must say that so long as associations continue to be
organized as heretofore, upon such narrow principles
they must continue to bring odium even upon what
is good in socialism.' Commercial justice, in what-
ever way defined, will not carry men, nor -enable
them to go into the higher regions of moral, intellect.
tual, and spiritual development.
"It seems to be a general notion amongst ssocial
reformers of the present time, that if we can only et


176

SOCIETY AS IT IS

labor well rewarded, humanity will right itself, and
the highest happiness dawn upon the world. This
may be a very natural conclusion. The world is
cursed now because labor is wronged of its just dues.
Labor is the only productive agency. Give labor,
therefore, all gains, and justice being thereby done,
misery- will flee from  earth.   But will it be so ?
Speculative cunning and artistic skill absorb nearly
all of the world's wealth now; under the proposed
arrangements animal energy will absorb it all.      In
escaping the tyranny of capital, we submit to the
tyranny of physical force exerted in the production
of wealth. The highest attributes of mind are slaves
in either case, to a master which can have no appre-
ciation of their claims. If I am to be a slave in either
condition, let me serve under the dominion of capi-
tal. I would as lief take my chance in the mental
conflicts for wealth, as in those of mere animal force.
I would as soon trust to the generosity of the man
who gets property by his wits, for the means of ele-
vating humanity, as to another, who, under a differ-
ent arrangement of society, gets it by virtue of mus-
cular endurance. It is true, that in the latter case
there could not be such depravity in the wealth of
individuals, but mind would stand no better chance
for elevation. And so far as general enterprise and
public improvements are concerned, there would be
little or no chance at all."
*" Providence overrules evil for good." Crushing evil obtains
in society as it is, but this very evil is developing good, and will
do so more and more until the evil itself shall pass away. The
existing social conditions throw the surplus wealth into the hands
of the few, Enterprise gets it; and this same enterprise improves
the harbors, extends the telegraph, makes the railroad, opens the
mine and builds the manufactory. It does so. the more effectual-
ly to make labor the more subservient to itself, but it will defeat
its own purposes ;-labor will triumph, and then will all these
and works of physical improvement fall into the hands of the

v
P

AND AS ?IT SHOULD'fBE.
As dry aw all this may seem, Charles'had not- fa
asleep,-but observed that," even in: re grodu
of physical wealths the 'work of the hands is notvt:
only thing concerned  Labor is.produotive in gr
portion-to the skill which directs it. Then, we r a
ward labor, why not skill?" ''To- which the other
replied:
SImight answer, by saying that the skillhh is
necessary to the dh'ectionof dabo inssome dwa&amp;
meat or other of human industry, is'the-comnion giaf
of all who are - not idiotic; consequently to waad
labor is at the-same timaeto-reward sk.hiBut;f]b
skill we .man some practicaligalitywhich allha
not got, Why  thento reward itw6old be aspeoie3
of favoritism inthe distribution Qfweaihwhich
should  n ot :le admitted  into association,  it  vwofd  be
granting a classhremuneratienwhib certainindiv-d
uals less gifted by'Lnature,could not hope. torei
It would be redogeizing aJaristo racy of skinUt
ter disregard of the pdtncipleofFparnountjusti
Such would be the dgeiimc      # h ecomnjiiaa
tion thus given, oulnot bepresunse  er epd6
as a general Thing, to the iegitimatewa  e f helas
dividu&amp;a
"The highest justiceii this matter is apprxnt
by rewarding neither:skili rl}abori peply pe
lng, but the timeent fa produdeo, a  leaTdy-.o
tended 'for. But although,.this 6bviates~he, diffiedaIiy
with refereneto 'the respectieJ cd4imsWafaboi-a
skill, isaunoh as mind .and muscle orin e e ordg
skill and .lbor require .ime f heir.ertida  yW
can only bey considered a appxi    t oftr a
tice, forthese are a  -assofeO  pong  tAa
fever liwats tha ;t sed  anyt h pie      qu,,
more phys e teii"forMthe
lifeiand healthand4icaetjhen      .pgs
degree oE  S     _ 1d61


ITS

sOCZTr AS IT s

upon which long-continued and successful labor de-
pends. To reward time spent in production gives
these the advantage, but we must be content with an
approximation to -practical truth, aid -endeavor to
guard against this phase of injustice by other ar-
rangements. in our social organization,-'by liberal
gurantees to mind.
"&amp;The due reward of labor is one thing to be
reached, but not the only one ;-it is a means, but' tiot
the end. We must widen the field of our vision, and
enlarge our sympathies.
."Man has an intellect, which corresponds-to the
wisdom displayed in every field of creation. .He
has a faculty of benevolence which corresponds to
the goodness which is manifest in every department
of nature. He. has a sense of right, and this cor-
responds to that eternal and immutable justice which
pervades the universe. Whatever -moral principle
obtains in the structure, relations, and operations of
aute, has its correspondent in the mind of man.
But there: are, in the universe, governing priciples,
and otherstwhich are subordinate. Thus we find the
principles from which result destruction and -death,
but these are not ruling principles; whereas, wisdom,
goodness, and justice are. Just so in Man, we find
principles~ which should be subordinate, and others
which should be supreme. Thus man's propensity to
violence, a, universal impulse in the human heart, and
which corresponds to the violence in nature, may be
exercised too far ;-it must be held in check, if -the
individual would consult his own good and the hap-
pines of those around him. On the:contrary, man
gaUnot be too wisestoo just, or too kind. These are
wulg principlet of the human soul, and their legiti-
naftaphere action is unbounded.:jIMan' spiritual
Sis .sJpreme. All the faenlties ieast he lexer-
h           a ~Mamn a to givoe no offe tothe4

I

A?~ AS IT SH8Ot; - 8.

e

moral and intelectual nature. Man's happiness is
best subserved by the regular exercise of all ;his pow-
ers within.theirproper sphereof action, and  these
spheres are indicated by the relatidas of coriesponirg
powers o1 principles in the structure and phenomena
of the universe. :Man's faculties are adapted to his
natural-circumstances; but the works of creation are
fo-med im'accordance with the supremacy of intellec-
tual and moral power; -therefore, he too, if he would
promote his 'greatest hapiness, fimust develop hjs
moral and intellectual nature, give it supremacy, and
act accordingly'
"-This is onot original doctrine, nor very new ; but
it is certain ly none the -less true, nor the less i--poN.
tat, for -all that..  oibe and Sprzheimfirst gave
system'to these views, and the world owes theur a
debt of gratitude as benefactors 'to theirrace.
" An associationt, to be organized upon the highest
principles of justice, must provide foi- the exerciseYof
all' our faculties and thedevelopment of.our higher
nature. it-must keep in view' the supremacy of"he
moral and intellectual man--the sacredaess of spire
ritual aspiration.
" Life is .the first-thing-indispensable. Without it
there'is, of ,course,;no -rmoral anditellectual enjoy-
ment-no happiness. An association should, there-
fore,"first make provision for- the necessaries of a
comfortable physical existence,- for without these
there can be no moral- elevation. Ever-yindividual
is born, with the inalienable right to life and its- cow=
forts: Such, being this'- right, inperio-s justie des
mands that an association shall guarantee the neans
of sustenance two l its mate.' B  they 'agedand
penniless maimed-or 'inftrm, or by hate   'means
rendered"unable to support themselves, it' matters
not, the association is 'bound,- not by ihe capre' ° i
prtptings of'charty -or benovolence ' n   fth.


100

TOOY AS IT IS

stern, immutable decrees of justice, to maintain them.
The needy demand the means of physical support
as a right; and those who can do so, should furnish
them upon the same principle.
S"After having provided for man's physical susten-
ance, the association should look to the higher means
of his happiness. It should furnish music, sports of va-
rious kinds, and arrange its grounds and edifices with
a view to the esthetic culture of all. But especially
should it furnish what is more properly moral and in-
tellectual stimulus. Music, proper sports,, beautiful
groves, gardens and edifices, all contribute more or less
to this high end, but they furnish more immediate grat-
ification and culture to the senses. Newspapers,
periodicals, books, conversations, lectures, -essays,
specimens in natural history, scientific apparatus; all
these, together with the social meetings necessary to
realize and enjoy the advantages thereof, administer
more particularly to the intellectual and moral being.
Some of these the association should invariably pro-
vide - others it should procure if able, as members be-
come qualified to use them and profit by their use.
The wealth of the establishment should be used in
such a way as to develop the noblest energies of the
soul, and contribute to the gratification of its noblest
aspirations.
" It is in this way that we would make amends to
the more intellectual and spiritual, for the advantages
which the muscular man has over them in the dis-
tribution of the yearly proceeds. It is thus- that we
would make.our policy subservient to the demands of
paramount justice. This end would not be attained
by~giving all wealth to labor. The greatest toiler in
the reation of products, and therefore the wealthiest
man, is, by .a necessity in the nature of things, more
alive to the sensuous and less to the intellectual and
spiritual, than his bQrother who expends less of his

I

I

vital energies in physical toil; and more in the devel-
Opment6f his real marihood. This -necessariyi re-
suits from a law of our being, as every stadefit of
himself knows, and I carinot think myself cunpable,
for insisting on it in this connection."- If, therefore,
we give labor a11,we-furnish the means of the highest
improvement to'those whowill use them least. Sueh
a course would not be recognizing the principle of par.
amount justice; .but this mast- be:doneand-so we
demand of, labor the requisite guarantees of mind. -
"These guarantees, youiwill observe, Chtries, sup-
ply a defkiency of which you complained- i the
scheme I provisionally drew up for your considera-
tion.
"Capital may be possessed in the greatest abun-
dance by those who are .deficient in their moral ap-
preciation, and consequently are not strongly attract-
ed by anything intellectualthich has a spiritualizing
tendency. To reward capital, therefore, would be to
disregard the highest demands of justice.
"Reward to capital would be the violation of a
scientfic truth; a violation which, so far- as mind
could ifl any way be concerned, the guarantees -ren-
der wholly'unnecessary; and thus, Charles, you may
perceive radily enough that the highest justice be.
tween member and member does not'demand that
capital shall receive dividend, but rather, as I prom-
ised to show, that justice is better subserved without
any practical recognition of the untruth. Reward
to capital,-though an evil, is not a necessary'one so
far as practical justice in association is concerned,
and so it mnay be utterly oast out.
"Skill may be joined with 'a high appreciation of
metal and intellectual things, but inastuhas such
an appreciation may belong to an individual almost
wholly destitte of skill in the harndicraftsit would
not be a recognition of the highest plane of justie.
to reward skill.

A R f' S  BE.~

181


142

UoCiaV AS IT IS

" To give all to repugnance overcome, according
to Warren's scheme, in which each one is allowed to
estimate the cost for himself, is to give the. advantage
to those who can manage to feel the least repugnance.
Competition is permitted, and the coarsely -organized
individual, who chooses to spend ten or twelve hours
per day in physical labor, can afford to rate his re-
pugnance at a comparatively low cost, and .yet ob-
tain an abundance of all that he needs; while the
individual, with. a high wrought temperament. and
intellectual attractions, is obliged to put his estimate
of repugnance at the same low rate, perhaps even
lower, or else get no employment. The consequence
is, that the latter is compelled to toil as long or long-
er than his more muscular brother, for .,the -same
amount of wealth; whereas he may require several
times as much to .supply all his properwants. To
give all, therefore, to repugnance overcome, is .to
overlook the principle of paramount justice, and; dis-
regard the true interests of the human soul.
" It will not do to say, as Andrews does, that there
will be an abundance for all, and that consequently
the most highly organized have no reason to com-
plain. This expositor admits that the coarsely or-
ganized individual will get more means while he needs
less, and the highly organized one less, while he needs
more. This is not a true condition of things, but the
reverse; and yet it is the legitimate resultof a sys-
tem which .claims to be true science. The wrong
conditions, as I conceive, result from wrong principles.
If- any scheme of society do not result theoretically
in true conditions, it is not a true scheme.
"In ascertaining the true science of society, or
more correctly, the true social policy, what we have
to do is, first, to ascertain what are the true condi-
tions to be brought about, and then, trace the opera-
tion of our principles. If they result in - those con-

I

AND AS iT SH Lx  BE.

R

ditions, or tend to an approxiiatio thMy may be
tr'usted,-.if not, they .are falIe and must be aban-
doned.-
"It seems tosmethat, sclentifcally considered, the
principle of justice for whieh we contend, would re-
quire:that-what shall I say?  I want tQ gert atthe
scien/cfic distrjbutioi of wealth, . I am wellpasured
that there{is no nmistake.about the principle of para-
mount justice ;-but, what does it lead to? to Com-
munism?   If so, I shall trot shrink fror Communism,
But more of this at our next interview. Now lets
try that sentence again:
"Scientfically considered, paramount justice
quires,that wealth be so distributed as to get eack
in proportion to his physical, mental and spirit
needs.
"Is not that it? If such is not -God's truth, I am
deeply in error, th.t is all"
"Then," said Charles, "you do not recognize the
right of propery. as based upon the right-of the in.
dividuaJ to thel proceeds of his own labor ?!.P
" As pertaining to the-trie order.of soiery, Ie
cognize no right of property at all," said his friend.
"I recognize, under such circumstances, the right to
property, and that, as based upon the right to life
and happiness."
"Withrespect to your formula for the distribution
of wealth,".inquired Charles, "would it be applica-
ble to the government of an association?"
" Not at the present time," was the response.
"Man is not prepared for this yet. There are two
reasons why he.is not: 1. He is too low in spiritual
development. 2. Wealth is not sufficiently abundant;
nor the means of producing it sufficiently Knatured.
Until these two conditions obtain, the science of so-
ciety can never be realized. But if we cannot reaclh
the ultimate of truth, we will not quarrel with ne


eessity,,but strive to approximate the ideal as nearly
as possible. Atsuch 'approximation should the policy
of association aim. This is a work for practical skill.
Others have-failed and so may we, but let us hope.
"If I were to write a formal constitution as the basis
of agreement between the members of association,
I would, in view of the considerations presented at
this interview, begin it somewhat in this wise.
6Being well convinced -that the highest demands
of justice require the distfibution of wealth to be
made in such a way as to administer, as far as possi-
ble, to the greatest happiness of all, according to their
physical,rmental and spiritual needs, do we the un-
dersigned hereby 'pledge ourselves to, the good of
humanity, by uniting in a social compact, which has
for its object the practice and exemplification of this
great principle or law of our being ; therefore, do we
adopt the following constitution, and mutually agree
to a fraternal league of energy and effort, to carry
it into execution with a hearty good will."
Having thus concluded, the social brother bade
Charles a kind and fraternal good bye.

12A

V

SMICTY AS IT IS

CHAPTER .XIII.
TEE PROPERTY INSTINCT'
"BROTFa CIRARLEs;-eNow that we have neared
the head of the rapids, our little bark wil sweep
along more glibly.
"It does seem to me. that there is much error
even among the most advanced -reformers, if' re ad
to the funtions Of the property insthnct. It is"very
certain that as existing' society trains its victims,'the
propensity now is one of property.getting and proper-
ty-keeping for one's own selfish purposes, °Thisais al-
Most universally the case; the contrary is the e cep-
tion. Thereis one eternal grasping for more; rnare,
more, and the craving is insatiable. Each individual
wants property, not so miuch for use as for posse tn,
and if he has it not for this base end, to the exclusion
of all his brethren, he can hardly feel'that-he I a trian
among'. men. This propensity is so unitersal,and
the power of the instinct found so geteally to eor-
respond With the development of a dettain portion
of the brain, that some of our philosophers tdef that
property-.getting and 'property-keeping; pretty much
as it is carried on in"ci lization, is ordained .f"God,
perfectly legitimate, and that mna in all his efforts,
whether for self of humanity, nmiist pay it doe :respect
and heed its dem ands and obligations. :Society as it
is, provides for such exercise, and according to" the
thinking of some, this is one of itstr thA*hatevet
may be it$ falses. if- social 'reforme-rs wuld Aestroy
the falses of society, they" mazs tbew.re, 'let.At tie

I
s
f


same time they mar some of its existing truths; and
hence there are social regenerators who would have
us understand, that as all the faculties of the human
mind must be provided for in the true state of society,
consequently those schemes which disregard the
cravings of the property appetite, as generally ex-
perienced, are false, not adapted to the wants of
human nature, and must fail. Hence it is a great
point with the paper builders of society and their
reviewers, to make a distinction between association
and communism, and then inform their readers that
the difference is heaven-wide, and themselves opposed
to the latter.  This, it is very certain, is an effectual
reach for more consideration, from the. mass of read-.
ers, and those who are yet chained to the car of &amp;am-
mon, but it surely is not the true propounding of
social science.  Something may be done in this
manner, by way of transition, but I hold that if man
would realize all that is now within his reach, he
must rise above the low, sensuous, earth-prone spirit
which now too generally pervades society, and
curses it with the wrongs of a most unwarrantable
selfishness.
"'But must we not take man as, we find him?'
Most assuredly. And if we find him unfit for a higher
state of society, we must leave him in the lower,
promote universal education, diffuse universal science,
and await the future for the general realization of
peace, harmony, and happiness. But if there are
those who have really advanced beyond the sordid
selfishness of the times, and are prepared to enter
the beautiful and well-proportioned social temple,
wherein they may unite as they would with true
brethren upon brotherly terms, then should we ex-
pect to witness the actualization of all that dwells In
the ideal, and is longed for, and hoped for, and to
whiph the movements of the age are inevitably
tending.

SOCIETY AS IT IS

186

iM
a
11
-4
y {
k
h
d
i
N
yfs"
df
4+t-
ie.
5
J
4
zg
,is

/

18f

AND AS IT sSU$r BE.

"Our problem is now stated. The propensity for
the gecumulation of property 'with a, view to individ-
ual and selfish possession, rather than use, does exist
in the human heart, is almost universal, and hece
it is concluded, that the, true. state of society must
provide, for its gratification. I deny that tis is a
correct view of the case, and must-endeavor to showv
wherein-I deem myself to escape the-seeming. abser-
dities of my position. I certainly d ,naih-tain, that
the faculties which men really have, must, under the
proper circumstances,:each and every one without
exception, be used;, and so far as happiness depends
upon their action, must be. provided for in, eyery
scheme- of society which is designed to be of perma-
nent and practical benefit to the race. But, I-deny
that this getting of individual property. by isolated
effort, for. selfish possession and- emolument, is'a
normal and legitimate propensity of the.human-mind.
I admit its legitimacy .in one-sense, and I would be
sadly. at fault as to the requisitions of true philosopy
if I did not admit that as society exists, this propeni
sity is justifiable, because -adapted' to the circum-
stances in which man is placed. Whoever does not
attend to the acquisition of the means of'life as best
he can, even with all the world against him,fails in
his duty to himself and to such, as depend upon him
for support and comfort. But, change these condi-
tions, and then will the necessity which theycreate
be obviated, and nman, may be better and .happier.
'What! better and happier without the isolated own-
ership of lands and chattels, and all the goods of life?'
Well,4f. human nature is -truly exalted under the
changed conditions of which I speak, then mus- we
concede that he will be happier; and what= is niore,
if this exaltation, take place the more readily, truly
and natu rallv, without isolated propertf-getting and
Possessing, -tien Lnust we admit that he ispoff

a
°  - ,
r          .'
r
f       -
.j 1     -            , '


socr'   As rr is
without such kicumbrances. But I am upon the
border of ' cantankerous heresy,' and must not antici-
pate my subject.
"Now, why is it that every individual feels that
he must gather as much unto himself*as possible?
The answer is simple. Society is so arranged that it
.is a necessity thus to do, or at least he feels it such;
and this state of things has so long obtained that the
feeling has beoome habitual, a second nature. The
man must starve if he do not provide well. -He may
be laid upon the sick couch, and if he has not 'laid
up' for such a contingency, there is danger that
others will supply his needs with too-scanty a hand,
or not till it is too late. Thus it is 'that such as are
not really improvident, must not only supply their
present wane, but lay in store for the contingencies
of the future. Considering the circumstances, this is
all right: I have not a word of fault to find with it.
What I do fault, is the.rircumstances, that the indi-
vidual must do all by isolated effort, as though he
were alone in the world, without a friend among
his own kind. The individuals of his own race are
in fact his enemies, so far as the acquisition of wealth
is concerned. Each is grasping for himself, and the
more any one gets the less can others obtain. If
one gets any particular article of' property, no one
else can. It is his to the exclusion of all others, and
with reference to prospective use, they can. take
no interest therein. This struggle for the exclusive
ownership of the most property possible, is unquali-
fied antagonism, and only so far as overruled by the
better instincts of our own nature, is it notdown-
right enmity.
" That instinct of our nature which induces us to
provide for the wants of our natures is a legitimate
one.- This proposition I do not dispute. The ain-
stl ig  Ged-given, and right in its nature, but society

I

AND AS Pr    O   | RgE.

has, perverted it. The,intei'est -of the selfish, and
sordid individualism which has ahutofore preveliled,
and which still prevails, has given an improperdiree.
tion to the wealth=creating faculties. 'Under the in-
fluence of that improper .direction, society now
groans, and it will groans till men are developed be-
yond the sphere of sordid selfishness into a higher#
and purer atmosphere.
"II have said that -the instinct, faculty, or sense of
property, is'a"natural and legitimate one. NOW,
what is its true purpose, end, aim,or function?  The
answer is easily given, because involved in th'e 'delini-
tion of the faculty. To procurefor the 'itdibidzzal
the means -of gratifying his- legitimate wantsthtsi--
':But, if these wants pertain to .he-.individua'l,
should not the individual, provide for 'them  in his
own case, upon his own responsibility, and by his
own unaided efforts.? N y. And I answer thus
because man is a social being. Man is social, and
the interchange of kind offices and mutual aid with
friends is a source of happiness; and with the many
his joys are increased and troubles diminished. An
individual all alone could have but little sto become
joyous over, and would be 'full of trouble.' In the
strife for property, he is essentially alone. There are
none to -rejoice with 'him when he is successful, and
when he fails, he must meet' the dragon of adversity
single-handed.  This I ,hold to be "unnaturialand
degrading. It is felt evernow. The more advanced
are unhappy 'that this isolation and antagonisn'pre-'
vails, whether they are conscious of the source of their
unhappiness or snot. If enlightened as to this point,
they- long-for. the property 'in terests. of  themshres
and others to be ones tt labor with-themas brothers
for the means of life, and enjoy with them in te same
fraternalspirit. 'hose wha are uotthisagl

{
3


19              asooTrWr  aS I is1
I must think are yet bobbling over the quag and gut-
ter of a damp and chilling mermetism. Such must be
content with the rewards of a lower sphere until
they reach a higher; nor presume to judge what they
cannot comprehend, or dictate to such as have passed
beyond. them.
-, *Property-getting, as at present carried on, will
not be readily abandoned, for this very good reason,
that the race is still so low, in development that
there is but little outlet for its aspirations and ener-
gies but in the qualification of the property-getting
propensity, either as an end or the means to other
ends equally as base.
"Man, in his present stage of progress, has devel-
oped but the presage of his nobility, and his aspira-
tions are yet'grovelling; hence, if we place him in
easy circumstances, and relieve him from the care of
providing for his daily wants, he would be unhappy.
He must be engaged, and as the acquisition of prop-
erty by individual effort constitutes the length and
breadth of his aspirations-they have but little height
---it is into this channel that he directs his energies.
However vulgar his ideal, and base his actual, he
seems -content with himself, and looking from  his
own plane, would despise us for attempting tqameli-
orate his condition. He feels. that our means
for making him happier,-are not adapted to his wants,
and would only derogate from what he already-en-
joys, without adding anything in a different direction
as a recompense for the loss. He would prefer to
work-out his own -salvation in his own way.:
" We hear peoplesay that they are not as happy
since placed in circumtances of ease and- plenty, as
when driven by necessity to greater exertion for the
supply of natural wants. Such are minds of a low
order spiritually, whatever -they may be intellectual.
Tbraspirations are earthly, and beings thus bowed

f
Ew
I,
1
f
a
t
j
i
2t
r
I

191

down cannot appreciate the  aims and motives ofsuch
as would relieve man. of imbruting cares anxiet  and
toil, that his spirit may rise.
"And herein may we detect an error in thepolicy
of a numerous class of socialists. They would hav.
government attempt the reorganization of society-==
thus beginning at the wrong end.    Government
may remove obstacles, and smooth the path for the
oppressed worker to flee the bondage'of his industrial
Egypt. It may contribute to his mental culture, and
must do so that lie may enter into a freer and fuller
communion with himself, understand his own real
wants, and appreciate his true relationship with
others. This done, he will be prepared for something
better in the form of reorganization, and will efect
it for himself, without the interposition' of arbitrary
law.
"The man must be moved by a nobler aspiration,
and feel his needs, before the reorganization -of society
will greatly benefit him. On account: of the lmnat-
ural restraints of brute force; and conventional usage,
society may lay behind to some extent, but its spon"
taneous tendencies are to be in the aggregate What
its members are in their individual Capacity. Thus
it is that as man progresses he will form society. con-
genial to his wants. And hence it is that one class
of social reformers should not assume to -prescribe
terms for another. Each class knows its own wants
best, and should be allowed to do the business of
their gratification.
"Human nature is not a mathematicaltruth,whieh
is the same everywhere and forever. it is progressive,
at least changeable, andat different times and places,
presents - different phases for our study, and modified
conditions auto which society must be adapted.  --
i "Nola ,i if there be sore/ who-have no pleasure in
isolated.posses-onn    i -the -control of° ': t

U

AND AS TROg


ALg-2

scurTY AS IT IS

I

means, but to whom, on the contrary, these things
are absolutely repulsive, then most assuredly is the
preseM state of society, which is but the aggregation
of isolation and antagonism, wholly unadapted to the
,oral condition of such. And that there are such
X aver, and when I do so I speak from my own con-
sciousness; and upon contrasting what I am now
with what I havebeen, I conclude that I am no mon-
ster. And further than this, whether I would or not,
I am driven to the conclusion, that the race must be
developed far beyond the grovelling pleasures of selfish
acquisition and selfish possession,bdtore it can hope to
realize the reign of love, and peace, and harmony.
When such unjustifiable selfishness shall have become
repulsive rather than otherwise, then will man enjoy
a far greater sum of happiness, far purer and more
exalted than now. His psychological state will be
higher, and when society shall be adapted thereto,
that the fruitage of a higher culture may be realized,
then, according to the promise, will there be new
heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth right-
eousness.
"6That form of society which advanced -socialists
must soon recognize, at least in theory, and thence
shortly in practice-that form which would result
from the adaptation of society to the actual needs of
true men, is this:
"Association will be =entered into, labor will be
made as attractive as possible, economies secured as
far as practicable, and each will labor as much as his
physical wants require. The conditions of health
demand of each that he labor .a certain proportion
of the time--.one more, another less, according to.the
peculiarities of his constitution. This amount of labor
under such circumstances, will procure an abundance
of the necessaries and admissible luxuries of life, and
evqatually all that is required tqaadminister tatthe

AND AS IT Sa0ypgg

193

highest good of the spirt-ul man; The individ _
will have a rightful claim upoii just so r mudh of tle
common   property as will be required for the  "iste
tion of his legitimate neds,-just this, and -nothin
more. tiewill want nothing more, and can be e
tent with nothing less. -ie. will ot scramble after
property for his own exclusive possessioin, withdj
regard to use,fo  property then becomes pef; jH
ill abor conjoiuy with his brethren g.his individ.
uaY Prompts, and hewileoy in the ame        al
capacity by the ane individual, prompts   se
are the condition into which society must eventualy
result. aThi l, the science of  ocdy, and untltis
realize allelseoispoicy, either true or fale,. What.
ever purports to be ience,,must be consistent wlth,
in itself, and when' miiade practicamstndia
true result, or it is not se pabl n
tBut it may e urged that I am tniIng ombina.
o a       ividuality o far as to produce a social
incongruity, which mustwor k  ischief and e
in an eiploslen ; That sett cannot tht labor together
for the means of life- and then enjoy'them without
misgivings, heart-burnings, contentions;that they
never have 'done so and never an.- Now landet
think that such 'objectors are trying thi) atter by
*The doctrines of thi -hapter were "octvdb ~i uhri
the sumwetrof 1851 a do gn eor cyrit teteihei th fhel hof s.ri4
Soe   of the precedn hapte were Ao ee e
, , a d orgina grittenitheasame  a
tofore hid any a uaitanckith.the vies j i..x:.pati~Ir.o
ra  y   rhe9,8eaia am Jis
the Icarian Colnynas f4Alisi -
Webewiv that thisetr oii             b bs
upon P'riU4?Is-cotrrytotb  wiha~~~~e4 h   vl
tha isu on.Frater nity, 1!(jiiIity, $ $4iay, tltDumGA
miser al  ,iiw~PVoe"
and w            , _k~e~wjh n d  IWIva  * ,...    _ '-  . "

17


4    104

S    iOIETY AS IT IS

their 6wn selfish standard, and I must protest
against their applying such a rule to others, or at-
tempting to measure the future of the race thereby.
"But still I am answered that such projects have
%eretofore.failed;-to which I reply,-not all, as
h4oie yet standupon firm bases, as witnesses- to the
IeZnt truth. in the human soul;'as landmarks. upon
the field of progress, and sure indications of what
humanity yet will be. Schemes 'of this kind have
* fallen, and nor wonder. Those entered association
who should .not have done so; those attempted .to
unite who were not fit to associate together; they
built their structure upon an uncertain base, out of
incongruous. materials, aiid though 'the. winds might
not blow  lor the rains descend, yet the elements of
destruction were within, and the house fell.,
"«If you were to tell me, Charles, that I have failed
*   to.present any. conclusive proof that the individual
control of property in isolation is not a legitimate
exercise of the- .property instinct, I should proceed
with an attempt to give full satisfaction. :I decide
that this selfish acquisition for selfish possession is not
an exercise.of the faculty in question,-adapted to an
exalted state of intellectual, moral, and spiritual be-
ing. I-decide thus in view of the absurd and n-u-
natural result to which such exercise of the faculty
leads, and of which I have already spoken, There
A 'system of apportionment based upon jade-
pendeat ownership, which doe. not lead. to an un-
scientific and manifestly unjust distribution of wealth;
and this consideration alone is conclusive with me
against abitrary distribution upon infezior princi-
ples.' We see how this works in society as'it is. The
misery aniong the unfortunate and the low, and the
:equal misery -among such as are deemed the for-
tunategpd thehigh, are at the same'time the evidences
and'fritsif Wa paq  ,dral and s just distribution of

AD AS IT SHOtYLD BEn          95
wealth. And I care krqt upio what plan individual,
isolated property:gtting and oning iscarriedout;
so long as socialists -demand these coaditionsI ust so
long will the propensity which demands, and the
conditions demanded, arouse, under practical operd-
tion, a pef-getting ambition, sordid strife and py
envy. That pra'ctica['solecism,, 'competition  th-
out antagonism,' will not remove the diflculty,'and I
know of no better plan proposed or exisiing. Men're
brethren by nature, and their true interests naturally
harmonious. Each should receive according to his
legitimate needs and enjoy according to his.capacity;
and since the isolated acquisition and exclusive con-
trol of property is incomipat le with these results
I hold that such an exercise of human energy'"is a
perversion. The man who is best at getting pro-
perty in the wide; world or in an' 'equitable' village,'
is not by any means the man who really needs he
most.
&amp;  "'But this view of the case may satisfy me and not
others. 'While men feel the power of this pro-
pensity as it is, and see it Operating s strongly in
others, they may assure themselves, that'the evi-
dence is conclusive against me. But J'ertainly shall 4
not shrink from meeting the selfish views of human
nature upon- these grounds.
"'All' men in civilization, with few exceptions, de-
sire to obtain property and hold it in 'exclusiepos-
session. 'I deny that this is a normal exercise,'nder
true conditions, of the property'=instinct. If I cannot
prove it abnormal, I can at least present such consid-
erations as go to establish a strong probability that
it is so.
"Ask the slaveholder whether the right of proper-
ty in the negro is a natural and just one and be
not surprised if you incur his displeasure 'for presm-
Ing to reis a'doubt upon a question he deeds s 'Well

I


OmeTY AS IT 15
settled. HIe has been educpted to believe thzt  the
ownership has indubitable existence by virtue of di-
vine rigt; his friends and neighbors are educated in
the same faith, the spirit or atmosphere of society is
infused with the peculiar notion, and no one thinks
nt~aytiing else. They are all as sure that it is right
town slaves, as the anti-commIpists are that the
*    t   scheme of society must provide. for individual
andexclusive wnership,
Again. The land speculator. who holds thou-
sands of acres, and is keeping hundreds of people out
of their just inheritance, feels that he actually does
own all this property. The law  guarantees it to
him, and when he consutts his own instinetsl he
knows that the law is iight.. Education, habit, and
prevailing opinion do the work. The mind is per-
verted till its cravings are no longer indicative of its
normal character.
"The same considerations hold true of the indi-
vidual who has otherwisefattened upon the spoils ofd
ether people's labor. Society honors him for the
acquisition, and he feels that all de has thus acquired
is absolutely and justly his. The sense of property
is perverted and no longer confined to its normal use.
"It is just so with regard to the feeling of ex-
clusive possession under other circumstances. If a
stout skilful six-footer work by the side of a feeble
unskiful brother, he feels that he has a perfect right
to all he can produce. He may produce three times
as much as his neighbor, and need three times less,
and yet he deems that justice gives him this advan-
tage of nine to one over his fellow laboger. And
as if his feelings were not sufficient to this end, the
philosophers will tell him that his individual sover-
eignty gives it to him, and that his right to pocket
all is perfectly philosophical.
" The akilful workman, or lucky gold digger, feels

4ATD AS r ~Ofj   Z
no .rn1f certain that1Oh ekan prdade orhapp n
onis histhan the s1ave.owner aand1  mopp
feel that the slave and the land, witi th
are the s        tioa andgeneal opinion  4
quate in the.o ise, to create and sustain i e
ing of owners, and it is altogether adequate
otherterupr   ce  exactly theme result
feeling of possession, therefore, c"notbe ug4 a
testimony of theyrightfulness of wjrhiPis
given object. The feeling 1;sno irndicaton  f its  st
limit. It is Omivero-s and Pppia-esanythng
Is this not conelusive, brother Charles?"i
"It is conclusia to me," replied Cha-les, "-bit it
certainly would not be to  e                 kpeulatpr in slaves r
lands, or in the labor of.en reputedly bond, or
nominally free"
"It is for yourself, andthose like you, willing to
see the truth, that I reason," said the good brother,
and not for such as you namer The spoiler of ha
man industry and libety, however insidious, plaus-
ible, and pious his poli y, would be convinced byn
appeal to the pocket far more readilythar brny
appeal to the judgment and conscigne   1tgdi$t
cult to convince men of error whilst it is thefselfish
interest to evade the truth. Ifo few are there en.
gaged in vicious occupations,. who ever. get to see
the evil, and to feel it so far as to abandoat  f
such as have done so, thodirh I have heard of ofers,
Know only of a few distillers, rumsellers,ad preach,
ers."  That such cases are rare, is o 'ly so mui sad
evidence of the still undeveloped condition of the
race.
Byprechers, it is to .bepresuaeext in     t   y
regular, starched up breea. Quite a numberof prahes he
excellet tra to as r en, and some are advoete ottaeahs -n
a t ny      guarantee 4gaiinst twitc'ier.of e    ;
an are not        en ute a Volu   ent

L

I

t


lb grASf  S

But it does seem to n that such" as deby the
'right of-property£'in our feflow-nan, inwhole town-
ship's o God's earth, will find it ditgcuit to prove the
right of an individunl-to all he can -reduce, regardless
otthe wants of others and their ability to labor with
Attcess.   If they accomplish this feat, they must seek
todo it by some other mode than an "appeal to the
seusecof possessions. To say that- individual sov-
ereignty givesme the right to appropriate all the
proceeds of my industry, however superabundant, is
to give undue latitude to that prerogative.   No man's
individualism gives him    license to- do what is not
right in itself; and it is clear enough to me that it is1
not right for wen to appropriate property to them-
selves in proportion to their capacity for production
or ip ck in acquisition, since their doing so leads to
a distribution of wealth -as defeats the aim    of
paramount justice and the equal good of all. No
man, however sovereign or skilful in production9 has
the right to squander upon his own extravagances
*,of   "'h1gos'against temperance pleges and total abstinence.
IlAe coi n~ds that it is perectly rightai scriptural, to take a
little o&amp;ionally, provided the occasionally does not come too
often, and. the little is adhered to.' Lyman Beecher, however, had
a btter~philo sphy though perhaps less scripture, nan  e  and
lik hm daevethe thanks of all good people. All cla e  n
professions have their redeemingqualities, and the saew class and
the same individual often combi ne. great error with much truth.
We find two classes .of preached, who are perhaps doing as much
ood as evil. The' first of these are intellectual giants, reside in
ties'for the most part, and are mixitig inrwith the old error a
great,-deal of newly-apprehended truth..The other is to.be found
chiefly in die country. are meek, unassuming men, who have much
of the sirit of ,he gospel in their souls an much of its practice
in their lives. But the individuals composing these two classes
are not nuumerous.by any means, and for the exemplification of the
spiit of Christ. I would as lief, if not rather, trust ysome of the
air o              sumi 99 meek, and lowly Christians tbbe found in
country congregations, than any of their pastors  There i, how
*vr,'oine peet in which the. preach ing fraternity is -doing a
eer    o         .andthat has reference to the factthat all
Twoped people mgst have their herU nd their piiesthood.

,4

" Ta9k

i
3
,a
t
YI
I
L!f
I
M
S
i
k
4

.

AND AS tr Snoe, aBE.
what others need for:batterendsSincether f e
the function of the acqiing4facty isnot to a
much property as possible, with or with eatingg
the principles of commercial justice however inter-
preted, what is- its true function?
"Let theindividual be one who has arrived at 
stage of mental growth whereinhe, is prepared tei;a
truer life; place him in such social relations as dil
- enable him by the true companionshipof' his brhren
to acquire all and. use all that his legitimate wants
demand ; and then, beyond this, he will desire no
such thing as exclusive ownership. He wants-pro.
perty for use, but farther than this not fors possession.
He desiresit as a means, he acquires it by attractive
industry, and such are. his just relationsto property.
In him the function of the properly instint is practi-
cally defined, and has its true expression.
"The human mind furnishes a parallel which -may
help us in this investigation. What I wouldiiustrate
by it is, that in the true scheme-of society the acquir..
ing faculty need not be provided for any further than
as I hold, is already plainly indicated by thepriciples
involved in the formula of paramount justig,
"Man has within him feeling of violence and-this
has its purpose, just as he has within himn the feeling
of 'acquisitiveness,' which has also itsprpses.
Now, what are the ends to be- subserved b  This
faculty of violence? 'ft i indman, and we'mustcon-
cede that it is God-given, and, when the. proper oc-
casions exist, that it is right' to 'use it. There is
violence in nature, and this faculty in.the- human
mind correponds the-retoMan would be    hoy
unfit to grapple with the warring. and ,destr-ctive
elements, were it not for the propensity of violence
and destruction within himself: The ext ree eer-
cise of.,this ifacultylebtainsin thedestroyingof  to.
petty and._the taking of. lif&amp;  Without t I  . an


. OO

foI Onrr  AS rr It

uld not have gone int-the wilderness amidst the
haunisovfferocious beasts, and established there a home
for himself and those who came after him. He would
t have been fearful, weak, inefficient, and wholly' unfit
for that adventure from which so much good has
resulted to the race. But in this matter there has
been no choice; the adventure is a necessity, and the
good indespensable. External wilderness and war
are phenomena which pertain to undeveloped nature.
Mental rudeness and violence, in like manner per'
tin to the undeveloped mind. The stage of pro
gress in nature, corresponds to the stage of progress
in man. The necessary violence-of the one calls into
action the fitting violence of the other. But devei-
opment in nature, as Geology and Astronomy prove,
is mitigating the violence of action in the natural
forces, and this, together with man's conquest of the
earth, is mitigating the necessity for violence in hu-
man action, Now, we can imagine of a time, end
that time will most assuredly come, when there will
be no call-for the violent exercise of this faculty, in
the thousands of ways in which it is needed now.
There are, indeed, at present, some conditions of life
in which it. is not required, much, and I might say
not any, and yet those who are placed in such con-
ditions are indeed men as others and fullas happy as
they. The faculty is almost latent, and its energies
are of a quiet and subdued character. There being
no occasion for the extreme phases of action, there is
none; but the influence of the faculty is nevertheless
felt, and that influence is .as legitimate when quiet
and subdued as when more active and violent.
"Now it seems to me that what is true of this
tendency to violence, is equally true of the tendency
to acquisition. The extreme or violent action-of the
latter nowr pervades society, and the circumstances
justify it, and even demand it to some extent, 'he

p
r
3
icy
r
y
.y
a-
F
3
I
tk
ii

nucleus of- this extreme  action is indvidual acquisi
tion by isolated effort Thsish possession   g
this, clusteriall the abuses whh art. now bearng
down upon society,-- in all the -relationsof  a
property. The legitimate function of this ne~ata
power, under the circumstances of a more advaind
condition of society,  will consist in the individtAf's
providing -in assodiation.with his brethren fo t
true wants of his nature., The means thus acquired
he will use as, indicated by the law of paramognut
justice. This. is the true extent and characterurider
advanced conditions of individual acquisition, individe
ual possession, and individuals appropriation; and
they are essentially individual, though social.
"Under the existing Conditions of society the action
of the property-getting faculty is necessarily, to a
great extent, of-the more violent or selfishly isolated,
character. Each must plan, labor, strive for his own
exclusively selfish ends, not tvith his fellowsman, but
against them. The circumstances are- imperious,
and. inexorably demand the more violent -m nifesta-
tions of the acquiring, faculty. But place man l
true social relations, put him at ease as to all the
means of life, upon the condition, that he ,labor as
much as his physical constitution requires for ,health
and vigor, and there is no longer need -for the mon-
ster shapes of 'acquisitiveness.' Ohange the erb
trollingcircumstances, and we change the rnanifts-'
tions of the faculty1. From beingextreme or violent
they become latent - or subdued, just as-alteady 4re
dicated of the facuty of violence or destructivenes.
" Now, if, as we are told, any sbchemea of -so°
ciety, to be adapted to man's-true want e must,. o video
for exelusive acquisition and possessioii then doesn't
inevitable-follow, from the condition of the analogy~
that we must providealso for-the exercise ofdestrue
tiveness. if acquisitiveness, in its unsubdued-and ex


AY JA  T SROIL  BE.

$0s               SocErTY ASr is

treme action, must be provided for, then must we pro-
vid. for all the forces of our nature in the extremes of
their action. But in the true relations of society, those
faculties which under other circumstances tend to
destruction, will have all the occasions of a just and
pleasurable exercise, and so will the faculty which now
tends to selfish acquisition and possession. Those
which lead to violence and bloodshed will be become
enery and force of character,to be exercised in carry-
ing forward the noble aims of humanity ; that which
leads to exclusive ownership will become a peaceful
and. fraternal acquisition of the means of life.
"I am aware that there is a philosophy, or what
purports to be a science of mind, which asserts that
there is a faculty of murder, and others of a similar-
ly criminal character. Now, if this be true, and I
o not pretend by any means to say that it is not,
our reasoning is not in the least affected thereby.
The extreme action of the faculty of 'destructive-
ness' is murder ; the legitimate action of a certain
faculty as defined by neurological science is murder,
and the reasoning which applies to that, applies to
this. Moreover, if we have a faculty, the normal
exercise of which is the shedding of blood, then does
it follow that to secure our greatest happiness, all
our faculties need not be gratified, for no one would
deny our being happier to suppress such use of the
faculty than to indulge it. Now it is equally true,
that if we have a faculty, the extreme or abnormal
exercise of which is the shedding of- blood, it follows
that to secure our greatest happiness, we need not
provide for such exercise. The reasoning which ap-
plies in the one case, applies in the other.
" Grant that there are faculties, or the abnormal
action of faculties, by the suppression of which, as in
manslaughter, the true ends of happiness are sub-
served ;..-grant the existence of such p class of facul-
ties or species of action, then, if I can show that the

faculty, or the abnormal action of a faculty, which
leads  to, the extreme. ,of. exclusive acquisition and
possession is referable to such class or speciesjI prove
that the plan of society, which makes no provision
for selfish= acquisition and ownership,. subserves, so
far as this feature is concerned, the true eds .of
human hapiness. If I cannot prove that excl-usjve-
ness in property relations, like the taking -of.life,
destractsfrom the sum of human happiness, I can at
least establish-the presumption that such is the case ;
and hence the presumption follows that the true
conditions. of society would-not provide for exclusive.
ness in property-getting and property-owning. Some
of the considerations which bear upon this point have
already appeared. These I shall briefly repeat, and
present such others as seem to apply.-
"I. ,The personal and. isolated acquisition- of
wealth leads to a distribution in which those With
the greatest wants nay have the scantiest means for
their gratification, and vice versa.
"2. When this propensity is indulged in an isolated
capacity, men cannot be truly brethren. Neither
the surface .of the earth, nor any source of natural
wealth, is laid off by natural boundaries for isolated
possession; nor is there any position for property.
producing better adapted to one individual than to
any one of thousands of others who are engaged in
the same occupation; so that isolated :effort must
result in strife, competition, antagonism, with a
strong probability of the whole compound being
tinctured with a large infusion of envy end bitterness.
These two ingredients may be -generally concealed
near the bottom  of, the vessel, and even there the
practiced. eye may detect them; but then when they
bubble to the surface, right in the broad daylight of
the world,-as they often do, anybody can see- them.
Such must be the  result of disconne4oJ and isola*
tion where God designed association ahd fraternity.

-


504             socrrny AS rf is -
And this design, as an ultirnate, is manifest in the
unitary character of 'man's dwelling-place, the ne-
cessarily fraternal character of his pursuits, and the
social character of his instincts.
' 3. No one can suffer without others being af-
fected more or less disagreeably ; and no one can
be happy with legitimate fruition, without others
being affected more or less agreeably. 1 The soli-
darity of the race is an undeniable truth, and hence
disconnection is practically impossible; and therefore
the isolated and exclusive acquisition and possession
of wealth is, with reference to higher conditions,
unnatural, and so long as continued, under whatever
form, must lead to absurd results, confusion, unhap-
piness.
" 4. In regard to this matter my own consciousness
is sufficient for me. I feel out of place and unhappy
in the disconnected exercise of the faculty in question,
and although I desire to accumulate property, I can
only enjoy doing it in a combined and fraternal effort
with kindred spirits, or those to whom I am attached
by the ties of love and friendship. I wish others to
feel a personal and immediate interest in that to the
production of which I contribute.  Hence it is very
natural for me to refer selfish acquisition and the
taking of- life, both to that class of faculties, the ex-
ercise of which militates against human happiness.
To all minds of my own class, the reasons which I
have given will be satisfactory, but to others not.
It is thus that what is truth to one mind is not truth
to another. To one who accepts my formula of
paramount justice, the consideration first given is
conclusive; while another would shelter under some
subterfuge to explain away the absurd distribution of
wealth.
" From the considerations now given at this inter-
view, I conclude that it is not -necessary to tie hap-

3
'
I"

AnAi      SsoutI  E.           05
piness ofiindividuals of alcertain cast ordevelopment
of mind,- that they exercise independent and isolated
possession, and consequentlythat the form of society
into which they enter need not make any prison
for such exercise of selfish .energy. I conelode fur-
ther, that sudh- exercise, so far from being necessary
to-happiness, is absolutely opposed thereto, and con-
sequently that' isolated acquisition and possession
will be utterly expunged from the advanced order of
society."
"I think your conclusion entirely . correct,'" ob-
served Charles, "but here is a: difficulty. It might
be urged that such action of the acquiring instinct
as you object to, is that which gives 'to the most of
men   their seemingly chief enjoyments   Their
thoughts, and reveries, and dreams, are .all about
property-getting; and to urge your philosophy upon
such in a practical way, would be to paralyze their
energies and make them miserable."
"Precisely so," responded the good friend; ",the
love of gain seems to be their chief affection, just as
with the wild Indian the love of the bloody adven-
ture of war and the chase-is his. Take from the
latter his bow and arrow, tomahawk and warclub,
and you might as well tear out .his vitals, for you
have despoiled him of what is dearest to his heart,
and without- which his forest home would be --as
dreary, cold, and. comfortless as an Alpine glacier.
He must have the spoils of war and of the chase;
he loves the stirring adventure, and takes a savage
delight in the infliction of blows, the flow of blood,
and the writhing of his captured gate orvanquished
enemy. He.is undeveloped, and his ruling pleasure
is connected with the lower tendenciesrof our cokin
mon nature. It is just so with the property-monger,
as you have stated, and I have a short way with lii
He must remain in that social state for whiehihis
04N


I

206

SOCIETY AS I? IS'

nature fits him; but if he should become developed
above such a sordid condition of mind, then will he
long for better conditions of society, and be pre-
pared to enter them.
"I insist that unfraternal acquisition and owner-
ship, which arouse so much energy and give so much
pleasure, are not attended with true happiness, any
more than the mad ambition of Napoleon, or the un-
hallowed lusts. of Aaron Burr, which aroused so much
energy and gave so much guilty pleasure to them.
We must not forget the pain in this reckoning; and
there is pain as closely allied with the unbrotherly
struggle for property as with the illicit struggle-for
beauty or power."
"But here is another trouble," observed Charles:
" It is said that if men do not engage in production
from selfish motives, they will not engage in it at all."
"This," replied his friend, "is a libel upon 'human
nature. I cannot permit any other person to answer
in this matter for me, and further than that, I know
that I have brethren."
"And sisters too," added Charles.
" Then," said the other, "I presume we need go
no further to answer this objection, since each will
refute it or confirm it for himself, out of the fullness
or emptiness of his own heart."
"Another objection," said Charles; " is, that to
deny distinct acquisition and ownership, swamps the
sovereignty of the individual."
"Aye," replied' the other, " it does, if individual
sovereignty have no higher meaning than the getting
and owning of property according to the morbid
cravings of a diseased instinct. But while I hold
th t true individual sovereignty consists in the unlim-
i   control of whatever conduces to the develop-
me t of our true.selfhood in accordance with true
spi tual aspiration, I am not alarmed at the paper(

WAND AS IT SHOULD BE.

2Q7

tarecrows fluttered before us to save the supremacy
kf the individual. This, again, is a point which each
/will settle for himself according to the degree of his
development."
"We will adjust it for ourselves," said Charles,
"and in doing so, will remember that under. the
strictest rule in the highest dominion of truth, there
ik the largest liberty."
"Well said, Charles," responded his friend, "'and
now we will close the interview. To-morrow we
will discuss some of the practical details of associa-
tion, and therein will appear more fully the solution
of those difficulties you urged against the occasional
scheme presented at a former interview. Good Bye."


A;"  AD IT SOUL BE.        209

CHAPTER XIV.
DISPOSITION OF MEMBERS' CAPITAL.
"An important consideration as to the best means
of carrying into effect the highest humanitary law,
has reference to the amount of capital which each
shall have in the association. Shall it be a certain
proportion of his means, as one-fourth, one-third,
one-half, or any other aliquot part? or shall it be all?
If we demand all the property of members, or any
percentage, we proportion our demand somewhat in
accordance with the ability of each to comply, and
this is a consideration of some importance. But sup-
pose that instead of either of these'conditions, which
are substantially the same so far as the investment is
concerned, we demand a stated sum, as, say one hun-
dred dollars, or one thousand dollars, do we not vir-
tually ask the rich man to do less than the poor man?
Would this be right?
"' All right,' I am told, 'because, since capital con-
tributes to make labor in association more profitable,
all should contribute equally, and then would all be
benefited equally. The poor man, if he works as
long as the rich one, gets just as much good of the
capital, whatever sum be invested, as the owner him-
self. He should, therefore, work more than present
need demands, deposit his surplus gains, and thus con-
tinue until he has as much invested as his wealthier
brother. This may not be exact justice, since the
poor man has been receiving benefits from the great-
er amount of another's capital, and now his is only

equal, so that he makes no return for past advantages,
but he deserves this much favor, and we will accord
it.
" There is just one grand objection to the whole of
this, and that is, that such an arrangement would re=
cognize no higher principle than a phase of commer=
cial justice, and that it would.carry it into relations
whereit should not go,. And further, if we aim at
this sort of justice in the case, we must demand that
he who works longest per day shall have the great-
est amount of stock in the business, or else we must
give a share to capital; for it is' clear that when the
hours of labor get all, he who counts the greatest
number will get the largest benefit from the capital
invested.
" How does the. demand of a stated sum accord
with the principle embodied, in the preamble; and
which, I contend, should be the standard by which to
make all adjustments of the kind?  Let us state a
case.
"A young man wishes to go into association, but
has no funds.  He is admitted, however, and works
five years with his mind as well as his body; for, 'be-
ing intellectual, he wishes to develop the germ of his
manhood and be true to his destiny.  At the end of
the period he has accumulated five hundred dollars,
obtained a good discipline of mind and a reasonable
stock of knowledge.  But having been cooped up
within the limits of an association,.it has been.impos-
sible for him to learn some things,-,and obtain some
mental discipline which he would deem desirable,
and which can be had only in the wide world. In
short he wants to travel.  He has five hundred dol.
lars justly his, but that sum the. association demands
as a permanent investment, and by necessity he must
stay at home. Would that be justice? Would it not
be crushing the noblest aspirations of our being-i-

I,
,  t


AND A    SR0ULD' BE .      211

What young man, with a real soul in him, would not
rather take his chances in the wide world than in
such an organization ?
"If I interpret it correctly, true justice requires
that he be allowed to take the whole sum of five hun-
dred dollars, if he desire it. His highest nature de-
mands the right, and it would be unjust to defraud
that nature of its dues. And the same principle de-
mands that when he has earned five hundred dollars
more and wants it for noble uses, he may take that
also.
As to whether the objects to which the money
is appropriated be really good or not, this should be
left for the individual himself to decide. But if his
brethren should differ from him in this matter, and
the breach become intolerable, the copartnership
should be dissolved. The very fact of such a differ-
ence would be the strongest evidence that the parties
were antagonistic in thought and feeling, not adapted
to each other, and that, therefore, the connection
should be broken.
" There is another consideration-one of an un-
mixed moral character, and entitled to a hearing.
There may be some in association who would find
it difficult to obtain anything but what merely sus-
tains them. These may have a nice sense of honor
and keen sensibilities, and inasmuch as the organiza-
tion which requires a stated sum, would in this par-
ticular be based on the principle of commercial jus-
tice, they would know it and feel it in every nerve,
that the spirit of the association upbraids them with
reaping benefits not justly theirs. And even ,if they
were gradually depositing the amount required, still
the feeling would haunt them till they had paid the
last farthing. If I were without means, and especial-
ly, if,' in addition, I had many small children to sup-
port, I would not think of entering an institution or-

gan1ed upon such priniples, and by necessity jos
sessing a spirit in harmony with itsorganization-
unless I could do no better elsewhere. I1 would be
unhappy to breathe its atmosphere, and should only
do so as the least. evil of many.  But recognize the
highest form of justice, and then, if i should never
get capital, I should not feel that the spirit of the in-
stitution was reproaching me.
"The requisition of a stated sum is, in my opinion,
incompatible with the law of paramount justice, and
should not be embodied in the rules and regulations
of any social body;"
Charles observed here, that "during the first year
of an association it might not have achieved that de-
gree of pecuniary success which would enable it to
favor any-of its members with the personal-use of-all
their earnings.. And besides this, every individual
must have shelter, and tools moreover to work with.
How would youmanage these things?" .
"Well," replied his friend, "as to the tools,- that
has already been settled. In making good, out of the
general proceeds of each, year, the'wear and tear'
of the machinery it uses, labor-furnishes its own imn
plements and  mechanical forces.  This. is"clear
enough, since by the time the machinery and tools
are all worn out, the capital invested therein is alltre-
placed.
"As to the 'obligations for shelter; there has been
nothing said. The unmarried man or woman who
rooms with a family is one of its members, and so far
as house rent is concerned none could be demanded.
But with the family which requires a separate house
or part of a house, the case would be different. If it
occupy the building twenty -years, the roof would
have to be renewed and other repairing done-
Rooms and buildings used for general purposes, all
would have ar interest in, and might be co %Midered

210             SOCIETY AS 17 19


213

PoIETY AS 3?i3

under obligations for the cost of repairing. A yearly
rent, equal to the yearly cost of repairing any class
of buildings, might be exacted of such as are benefit-
ed by the room accommodations. This would pre-
serve the capital invested.in the edifices intact, and
it might be proper to go this far, but anything fur-
ther I should not be willing to adopt as a permanent
measure.
" In an association having limited means, as per-
haps all must have at first, it might be considered ex-
pedient to require of each family, besides the-yearly
rent already stated, an additional sum equal to one
tenth of the first cost of the room or building which
it occupies. This rent would of course continue but
ten years, for in that time each family would have a
share in -the general stock, equal to the cost of its own
apartments. The occasion for the demand having
passed away, the annuity would cease.
" But this is a provision for which I have no fan-
cy, and could tolerate it only as a necessity. I should
prefer to trust this matter to the generosity. of mem-
bers. None should enter association but those who
know each other well, and under circumstances at
least which involve no considerable risk; it would be
but natural that such repose a generous and fraternal
confidence in each other. In my own case I should
prefer to have this matter left to myself. The con-
ditions then would be such that I could'show myself
generous enough to do my part according to the ex.
tent of my abilities; and then, if I were not able to
furnish as much as a provision of this kind might re-
quire, I should not feel reproached. But if the con-
s ' ution demand it, I would have no choice in the
er, and could not prove myself worthy. I attach
much importance to these considerations.
" If'any one should gain admission, so small in soul
as to come a voluntary charge to the -institution,

r°
.r
s
P
x
F

AND AB ir SiOULt BE.

213

when its meahs would not justify such an outlay, oir
at any time, without the assurance of worth and pro.
mise in the recipient; the association would have a
remedy ;-it could expel the delinquent. , Such a
remedy would be efficient, and since the member
would have no invested funds it would be easily ap-
plied. In view of ,such a remedy there could be no
risk, and hence the provision under consideration
would not be a necessity.
The doctrines- of the Fourier school require that
all should be maintained, whether they work or not.
This would doubtless be right, for as it has been said,
and truly, none but idiotic persons would accept of
such a gratuity ;--the sociability- and attractiveness
of labor would be such that all would do their part.
But the maintainance of persons of this kind could
only be guaranteed in such establishments as -may
have become wealthy'enough to'take a practical stand
upon higher principles.
Expulsion for slothfulness would in all probability
never have to be resorted to, as previous acqtaintance
would be a sufficient guarantee against -deception in
the character-of the individual, but-if it should become
necessary, the protection it affords would be efficient;
and hence I, should object to the adoption at'.any
time of such a measure as the one under cbntempla4
tion.  But if adopted as a protection to the infancy
of the enterprise, I should be entirely opposed to its
continuance after the association should hate pro.
cured ample means and became-able tolive up ruoe
closely to the requisitions of true justice.-And fs to
demanding-more than this of moneyless persons as a
yearly aiid ermanent invesrehtI should be alto.
gether unwilling to do so under any cirdamstwrrees,
While an association should not, in its zea t&amp;to tual.
ize its ideal, ftrget-the necessities which omelitto
look to the condaous of its -own Peraneatenp


cuniary success, it should nevertheless aim, at thenre-
alization of true justice as an ultimate, and approach
it practically as fast as its available means enable it
to do so.
"In proceeding with the business of this interview,
I may ask: What would be the practical result, if we
demand a certain percentage of capital as a perma-
nent investment in the association, and permit mem-
bers to do what they please with the rest?  So far
as the demand of an aliquot part of the capital of
each is concerned, I see no error abstract or practi-
cal, but I certainly do see an error in the permission.
" It is true that we cannot deny to the individual
the privilege of such use of his own funds as he may
wish for the gratification of his own personal tastes.
If we deny this privilege, we blot out the individual
so far as he is an individual distinct from all others.
Now, since this life owes a great share of its loveli-
ness and attraction to personal diversity, an associa-
tion must not deny it to the individual, for the same
diversiy has its charms and uses there. But this
privilege to obey the behests of the inner man rests
upon higher grounds than these:-It is a right, and
must be respected.
"Let it be understood at the outset, that there is a
great difference between the right of the individual
to use or expend property for the legitimate gratifi-
cation of his own peculiar tastes, and the privilege of
the individual to control his uninvested funds with a
view to pecuniary profit. The former is consistent
with association and the true interests of all; the lat-
ter may pr may not be, depending entirely upon the
latitudelaimed for the privilege. It is with this we
have now to do.
" If the individual be allowed to control a certain
portion of his own funds, say the one half, what shall
bp the limit of that control ?  If he wish to sppcu*

214

SOCIETY AS IT IS

-'Y
t'7
fR
M r

late for his own benefit, shall he be allowed the privi-
lege?  I should answer, decidedly, no.  He might
fail in his adventures, and would thus injure the as-
sociation itself.- But, if successful, how then?
"Speculation does not come within-the range of
the social design, and his brethren remonstrate. ,ie
answers, that wishing to do as much good as possible,
he can only gratify his benevolence to the full extent
by getting more abundant means, and that when his
speculation has brought him a handsome return, he
will close it up, and use his means for the general
good.  That adventure turns out well,,and he sees
other good chances. Having a better eye for specu-
lations than 'good works,' he ventures again.  The
association interferes, but he meets his censors with
a ready excuse, and begs a little longer indulgence.
What's to be done?. His soul becomes absorbed in
his own business, and he cares nothing for the assn.
ciation, except as far as it enables him to save more
money than he otherwise could. Is such an individ.
ual a true social brother for those who are devoted
to the interests of the association and. the promotion
of its grand objects? Their sympathies are with
truth and humanity, and their treasures are used ac-
cordingly. His sympathies are in his -own pockets,
and there are his most beloved treasures.  There is
no high order of sympathy between them, and any
association which tolerates selfish speculation, or any
unfraternal use of capital in its members, is, in ' sure
way to defeat the best purposes for which association
may be formed. Not one alone, but many might set
up on their own account, and carry emulation into
the mania itself of speculation, and then,wo to ale
that is good and true in socialism !
But could w.e not easily prevent mischief of this
kind? If the association has one half of, his original
capital, let it pow nea 4 ,e. half ,of kis gaus ;

U14  OVJTY  S I ISAND A$, IT SI17WBE.

2 1 5-


S O C IMY AS IT ti

permanent stock. Even upon this plan the associa'
tion would recognize the individual's permanent right
to all he can make by speculation, and in taking one-
half it would only deprive him of the benefit of that
much in trade; so that he is still interested in carry-
ing on his schemes of self.agrandizement, to the det-
riment of true fraternity, his own good, and the well-
being of all.
"'fo secure to the individual that true liberty which
is consistent with his highest happiness, and to guard
against those abuses in the name of liberty, which
are at once a sin against himself and his fellow-man,
I would suggest the following provisions:
" 1. If the association require it for business uses,
let every member be obliged, by the constitution, to
bring in all his capital. 2. If it be not all needed,
let a certain proportion be given up, and in this re-
spect, place all upon the same footing, no one being
compelled to give a larger percentage of his capital
than another. 3. But in order to preserve to the in.
dividual the privilege of satisfying his own tastes, in
accordance with the spirit of the institution, let him
retain whatever sum he wants for immediate use.
4. And, moreover, even after he has deposited all his
capital, he should be allowed to call out at any time,
for the same purpose of individual gratification, a
sum not exceeding one-tenth per annum of all his
capital. And:when all his funds are not invested, if
he and the association, the parties in this matter, re-
quire it, he shall so draw upon his means both within
and without the- institution, so as to retain the pro-
portion which the present policy requires, and not
destroy the equality in this respect, between other
members and himself.
But this does not still provide against the abuses
of speculation. It does not say how the uninvested
fuds, in ese the association requires oaly a part,

AND   rfr SHOULD E.         217
shall be controlled, or who'shall control them. , Now,
the individualmay either  rrender the men a a
his uninvested-funds to the iss  tion and
result, or else retain the controlef themfgmseVgivig
a monthlytqu rterfy, or yearly account to.th
ation, as the character of the businessman  ie
of his managemet of the same. lHe should give n
tice of any charge or invest  he  posema
' so that the a s acia tion may .be at al times apriz
of his business p ojiy  fhe should: contemplat. i
pudent ventures or wish to adp      ju
measures for pecuniary success,-the association  a
then interpose its authority to change modif
the proceedings; r if f see pror todo    s og
the ma nagement Wholly i to its own hands. but by
whomsoever managed, let the increase in vai    e
divided to all the members equally as Witia  thpn
crease in association azid et, al the other ga b
divided to labor. The benefits of cpiain -ssoc
tion go to labor and-let -the benefits 'fcapita i
vested be'apportioned in the same ni-aune, by 'ah a
distribution of the irereaseofvau n4the"ti
arising from proper  otede of     idthe "Qtition1 all
would fare lik, and such distribution. would corres.
pond precisely with the distribution f Pght rafts'
Within the establishment.  ferf ct.equality  i
cured by such an -arrangement, there woul4
grounds for complaints any oe no milchie'f ogbe
apprehendedfrom, faikares Tu the spulaing Sce
of members, and no violenee could bydqyia''o ratherr
ity, by permitting the developento(reOgel s and
misanthrepy in members   hroggh  ia
seheniig o indidual apecutl ion
" Butsin  under sue -; a  ,n arng  t, tprM
ceeds of property invested, isrdisposedtin
ner  owise different from that o uninvst   r
the owol
#howoolagotbe
t 8

0


AND -AS IT SHOULD BE.      . 219

gain, to undertake the management himself. As to
pecuniary advantages, it would be. all one 'to him
whether his property be in association or out, partly
or wholly, and doubtless the most of members would
prefer to have all their means in the business proper
of the association. If, however, any one take pleas-
ure in managing a part of his property, in the true
spirit of a son or daughter of humanity, for the good
of all, he should be allowed to do so. I would go
even further;-if the immediate business dispenses
with a part of the funds of members, and there be
some who prefer to take their capital into association,
and submit the business management of it to the estab-
lishment, and others who should prefer to retain the
business control of theirs for the common good, in the
tranner'already mentioned, each class should be al-
lowed the gratification of its peculiar tastes. All the
difference which could result to individuals from such
an arrangement, would be, that some indulge busi-
ness propensities, and others avoid business cares.
As to pecuniary emoluments, all would stand upon the
sane footing, whether all'the-capital be in the imme-
diate business of the association, a certain percentage
. of that belonging'to each, or a larger proportion of
one member's capital than of another's. The equality
is secured by the equitable distribution of the proceeds
of all grades of property, and, while it is maintained,
no mischief can be done; by granting to the indivi-
dual the privilege of managing his own property af-
fairs, in the why already pointed out.
" If the capital is not needed for the business of the
association, several may-combine their surplus means,
and place it under 'the control -of' a brother who
tmiht be disposed to undertake its management for
the ' ood of 'all. -
"tI might here observe, Charles that in this discus-
stonJhav4 4ken of property ts ingested"'and
unifested,' while in fact, under the arrangement

proposed, all property i  invested in the association,
though some of it might not be in its immediate busi-
ness. The terms, though not strictly correct, I have
used, for the sake of brevity, presuming that there
would be no misapprehension."
" There has been none," said Charles.
The good brother, resuming, said: "The business
management of my own property affairs is really re-
pulsive to me, so that it can readily be imagined to
what class I would belong. My property would be
in the association for the good of every otherone, as
well as of myself, and no one could envy me what lit-
tle I possess. Another does not invest his in the im-
mediate business- of the association, but contibls it
for the good of others as well as of himself, and no
one could envy him. He is getting good of mine and
I of his, and we are brothers. I gratify my taste .in
giving up the business control of my property, and
he in retaining the business control of his, but still
we are brothers.
"Suppose, on the other hand, that he is permitted
to manage his property for his own selfish benefit.
We may have equal portions in association, it mat-
ters not; .he is. elsewhere pursuing a selfish end, an
end in which I am:his enemy, in which all men are
by necessity his enemies-I see it, and deplore, with
the deepest energies of my nature, the perversions
of a soul like his--and we are no lo. ger truly
brethren."
Charles interposed with -the remark, that." surely
no one with any thought of trying. to realize the
practical truth of association would pretend toclaim
the privilege. of procuring gain in any way with ,a
view to exclusive possession"
," Such should: not be the case," replied the other,
"but it has been, and wenmust guard.againsZ it."
"Under the.'plan you pripose,"added-Chdes"
think°.zoo weld-coiat- the ima      ggf

218              SOCIETY AS IT IS

1
:.


220 SOCIVY AS IT IS

wr funds. Those who long for better social condi-
iens are apt to be such as are weary of the multi-
plied business cares and distractions of isolation, and
if they are attracted to business, I. should suppose
they would prefer a management in the association."
" You may be entirely right, Charles," was the re-
sponse, "but. we cannot judge of others' peculiarities
by our own ; and it is well enough, in an investiga-
tien -ike this,.to ascertains as far as possible, the latW-
tude which may be safely given in the policy of trans-
ition. It ia most likely that in any enterprise of the
kindj'allthe funds of members will be needed as fast
as they cia' be made available, so that business capa..
cities woki find their appropriate sphere in, managmg
the affairs of the institution."
Charles remarked again: " You. allow of the grati..
fluation of individual 'tastes, and would permit mem-
bers to draw out funds, and appropriate therr for
such a purpose; now, why not allow-the gratification
of individual tastes in the matter of speculatingor
managing property for one's own benefit? :Some
would -seek to know why you permit the one and
forbid the other."
"I would answer- thus: Association is set on foot
for a certain purpose. That purpose is the realiza-
tion of fraternity for the highest good of all, individu.
ally and collectively. If a member wish to qualify
himself for service to truth and humanity, to instruct
and amuse himself by travel, to relieve the criminal
and insane, to reclaim the inebriate, to- promote edu-
cational reform, to assist the. oppressed, to help needy
but worthy friends, or in any way contribute. to the
good of man individually or collectively, he is acting
out the intention of the association upon his own rep'
sponsibility,. through the genial iupuiesnof hisown
nature, and should be allowed todo soi. -BatiA spec
alatiugidoes he not turn hishand uaistevery than,
iad diesEVEry-man's hand ti b    turned  against

AND- AS I SHOUn.D BE.         221
himself?  Is not thd aeta poisoned= dage  in the
soul of, fraternity, and4f al1 that)is noble and god
-in our common- nature-?  I does not even bene4t
himself. Every use of property, which ha pecu*i
ary gain for elusive possession for its o bjctanase
much as such gain is drawn from the toil of o&amp;ters,
and from sources as justly theirs as his, cultivates, se
far as the act goesunmixed selfishness in the heart of
the man. Speculation*-therefore, or any control of
property which has selfish gai for its object, since it
militates against the very spirit of socialism, rmut be
forbidden to, the members of an  ociatie  Henee
it is, manifest why individual tastes dare tolerated in
one direction sand forbidden in~ th eothere In tlieene
direction God inokes; ia the. other, Mammon.
"Again, the solidarity of the iace i sch that no
individual can prove his own priind without at the
same time benefiting- others.  If he use fundsfor
this purpose, he benefits himself directly and others
indirectly. This formof good to others is feW in
every word and-act. The, higher may attract. the
lower and drawit upward. On the other hand,the
individual in speculating degrades himself, and s, in
a. moral sense,draws .others downward. He may
hoard ever so much treasure- and yetdo neither
himself nor anybody else any good. True discipline
of mind cannot be,,selfish; riches may bey.- Thi ac
quisition of the one expands the sou; the acquisition
of the other contracts it . Here,. then, is'another
reason why I would permits the -individual use of
property for.the gratification of legitimate tastes,rd
forbid it for all purposes of sordid gain and sel
agrandizement/'
" if your vereto yprocaim suoh  1Witota pre-
iscuoua audience, -interposed.Charlesmhe.gen
eral wonder would be: Acot1dd anybody be sfpolir
as: to enter such an organization: s  tfoiVgqj
templates. What! voluntarily surrender n.Ibert


22

SOCIETY AS IT IS

'I

to become a slave for nothing i Why, who would
give away his right of making a good bargain for
himself whenever he has a' chance? Nobody, of
course, but some stupid fellow that has'nt sense
enough to go to- market or trade  a horse.. Thus,"
continued Charles, "it is that to take away the priv-
lege of pursuing the crooked by-ways of self-emolu-
ment, would be to invade the very sanctum sanc-
torum of individual liberty, and tear away the shrine
to hide it under the bog and fog of socialism-"
"1 I am at no pains," replied the other, "to con-
coct a system of reorganization that will suit such as
you speak of. Those who set a value on the priv-
ileges of the jockey, or, which is the same thing, make
exclusive self the great end of life-long endeavor,
cannot prize the loftier purposes of their being, and
for such, socialism is not. They must rise through a
rudimental education into the regions of a more ad-
vanced development, and then will the good dame
socialism take them by the hand and lead them
higher.. Men and women, true to their destiny, will
enter such an organization as I propose, and it is
such we want. Those who do not feel the want of
social system will not enter into the enjoyment of
better conditions, even if provided. They cannot,
indeed. There is a necessity .in the case. As some
of odr preachers tell us, Satan, a Universalist, or a
bad man could not enjoy heaven if permitted to enter.
Now there is a great deal of philosophy in this not
so generally understood, however well it may be felt.
The conditions of congeniality and sympathy must
exist or there is no bond of union.
"We provide for the gratification of individual
tastes in accordance 'with the spirit which pervades
the association. If there are any who have tastes
contrary -to this spirit, they should' not come-; they
would anot be happy if they id. There c.anbe'no

AN AS IT SHOULD' BE.

293

t

t
L
.;

true fraternity where there: is not kindrednews of
thought and feeling. Let the associatiotrFinsist upon
its spirit. Let it modify, transmute, or repel all that
is contrary thereto, and harmony will result: This
enforcement of certain cardinal principles, and e-
jection Qf all opposed thereto,'puts no restraint upon
a just individual liberty. It does not lay down a
specific character for personal taste, but a general
rule embracing the largest compass of the good lnd
true, and shutting out the evil only. This rule is
the expression of the convictions of the whole social
body, and: by enforcing it the-kindred will be at--
tracted, and the antagonistic expelled. Such a result
is essential to the highest success of an association.
As soon as it- undertakes to reconcile conflicting
tastes and interests, it abandons the high ground of
principle, and endangers its success. Compromise
may answer in politics, but it will not do in socialism.
" Conflicting interests may be held together in
political governments, by. the power of a strong ex-
ecutive. Owing to the false conditions of society
there is such a complication and antagonism of-inter.
ests in every political organization, that without 'the
central force acting upon the union, it wouldsoon be
shattered to pieces. An efficient executive, is, in all
existing governments, a necessary tyranny.  The
more antagonism of :interest any nation is cursed
with, the more tyranny will be necessary to enforce
the compromises. Let us, therefore, have no anng-
onism in association,+and thereby avoid the tyranny.
An association embodying harmonic elements only,
will need no central Gower of an arbitrary character
to bind it together. The integrity -of the union will
be maintained by the Inagic influence of one grand
principle, which pervades every lib and.fibre, of'the
whole body:, is-its animating spirit andackn- ded
to be such  thateeli  etirents, tlivesof


S94             soon    - As rITs  .
all the members. Diversity may exist in a social
community, but antagonism never. The one is a
necessity; the other not. That contributes. happi-
nes; this to ruin.
"If perso wishing to enter association are so en-
dowed that the restrictions hereby defined would be
objectionable, they have the wide world, to seek con.
geniality in. If those commercial combinatidars
which have money-getting for their exclusive object,
do not meet their -ideas' of association, they must
originate such forms as correspond to their conscious
needs. Let each class be at liberty, so-far as the
necessities permit, to project the external froth the
internal, the actual from the ideal, and the true
manhood, with its corresponding form, will develop
gradually into larger and more beautiful proportions.
" But why should any one object to the arrange-
ments proposed? Either the objector has doubts
about the safety of the investment, or else he is too
selfish to share with others. If he doubt the securi-
ty of the investment, he either lacks confidence in
the integrity and wisdom of the association to exe-
cute its business with honesty and success, or else
has apprehensions with respect to the validity of
titles to property in such an institution. If he can-
not satisfy his mind on these points, he cannot be
at ease, nor enter. into unreserved fellowship with
his brethren. and should not unite himself wi~h them.
If he is too selfsh to share all his incomes with others
upon the same conditions that tiey share with him,
he would not be fit to be their brother, and should
not expect such a recognition.
"' Where a man's treasures' are, there is his heart
alsor If I associate with a band of sociakbrethren for
our mutual good and the goad of mankind,l . would
wanttmeetsthen mas brothers in all matters of pecuni-
ary itenet. J. w ld takano4light ias Qh.lttrests

A  A IT S O!Uh BE.

of my ow. end if Iawanother absorbed. ins prely
selfish pursuits, a mightso shocking would sever the
tie of a close and congenial -brotherhood, between
him and me. To make mony o tside of esoitig
is to take advantage of the falses } of society on ae
individual acco nt; and so far as any ne  oes ::i-.
so far is.he personally interested in maintaining tese
faises. This spirit is1consequently,,as alreadyshown,
antagonistic to that f associatowhich aims at the
eradication of these false conditons, It}therefore,
seems to me, that to claim the fraternity of aa o,
ciation,and atthe same time the privilege of purs-
ing separate so-did interests, i to c yrryft  th .gin
hand and falsehood ,in the other.; andt.4 ny.
who cannot etar into full fraternity withhis .bith.
ren ii the ,matter-of pecuniary interest without con-
sidengt asai        isot prepared anything
but a lower .form- of, assoca tionn. Such nne may
rise above the church organizations of our ti ed,
whose abettors worship a false god andcalit reli
gion-.-live a lift of practical1 falsehood, and ca1 it
righteousness; but, most assuedly, heis not quite
ready yet to enter that higher form of asspciatgi
which I!verily beieve many in the world are at th
moment prepared to realie,
"One observation more, and we wi     lose the
present interview.. The plan for acIal organization
ch refus  diidend tocapitaland escetsnothing
members biMt an initiation .fee, youweighed ip the
balances and .found watinig in thq'particIers:
e. It wedul4d wor ijustige, by leavighe    t d rtmr-
ested a prey to the selfis . 2. It makes;no prov"io
forbginging into the intit~tan a sucienqy  eapital
for business purposes;nqr..: For rtaini he su
lus eating -f members. . gaye.yop; myw4a
t th efsokji  A h e difficukies ap 4 appea~gg
the ,aIs t4      mn   g jo ,  sd f Q p  he

4;-


526    *CsETYeA 1TI
promise redeemed ?1If the members have- capital
enough, there can be no deficiency. It is all brought
i and retained in.  There is no capital used for
purposes which do not come within the range of the
social design. One member cannot take improper
advantages of others ; the disinterested will be se-
cure from the wiles of the selfish ;-the circumstances
will be adjusted upon terms of unexceptionable
equity ; arid absolute truth, with respect to dividend
on stock, would become practical right. None with
capital would enter association but the true; all
would be treated as nearly just as practicable; dis-
cord and selfishness would remain undeveloped, and
success in all'that is noble would crown the effort.
"Hence it is manifest that one' provision of a
social, constitution will depend on another, and that
no dividend to capital, though one thing to be attained,
is not the only one. The refusal of dividend, as we
have seen, involves much practical difficulty, but
this may be met in other' provisions, and the policy
made consistent and harmonious. If the avenues to
speculation are closed up and the property of all
placed' in relations of perfect equality, then there
would be no call whatever for any consideration to
capital.  On the one hand, if speculation is not
vented, a complication of vicious circumstances
renders absolute truth in respect to dividend-on stock
6 practical falsehood; while on the other, if it is pre-
prevented, just, natural, and fraternal adjustment of
conditions'brings the same absolute truth within the
range of a beautiful and consistent realization."
"I understand 'you," said Charles, "and should
think that the sane holds true of the principle of
paramount justte. Owing to scarcity of wealth
Snd laek of spirituality amongst men, insuperable
dlfficultles prevent' the-strict application of the prin-
ciple it socia reorgunigtion. But though the dis-

A"' AS IT SHOULD BE.

tribution of proceeds is based on time, yet the true
principle of distribution is subserved through the
guarantees to-mind. It is thus, I perceive, that neces-
sary defects in one quarter may be supplied by
practicable remedies in another; and that although
science is not practicable et the present juncture, a
good and efficient transition policymay be."
"We see eye to eye," replied the good brother,
"and God bethanked for. that."
"I know another," said Charles, "who
on~ihue                             will be, at,
one with us.
"Iam 'personIally acquainted with a number,"
answered the good man, " who are in the same ideal
brotherhood with ourselves."
"Would to. Heaven that ideal were actualized,"
responded Charles, earnestly.
"lleaven -has vouchsafed the boon, my brother;
but the work as well as the fruition is ours. Let us
labor; but be patient,.fQr as the poets say, 'the day is
near.'"
And having thus assured his brother Charles, the
noble teacher departed with a promise for the
morrow.


A9 t''  IT- S OLJD -BE.

CHAPTER XV.
VARIOUS DETAILS OF TRANSITION POWOY.
"The preamble of a social constitution such as I
would form, has already been given.  Some of the
measures of a transition policy have been discussed,
and now we will attend to some additional matters,
not of less importance to an enterprise-of the kind,
but so connected with what has gone -before, or of
such A character that they may be 'briefly disposed of.
"1According to Warren's system, men, women and
children are rewarded for their labor upon the -same
principle ; 'that of repugnance overcome. There is
much justnessin the practical equality thus established
between these three classes ; though children who
have just begun to labor do not require -as much for
their needs as older persons. There should be little
done in the book education of the young till they ap-
proach their 'teens.' Until this time, and indeed for
years after, the main object should be to:perfect the
physical constitution, and develop the mental energies
by other means than close application to books.-
But, further, under our plan, education is guaranteed,
and I should, therefore, make a dividing point at the
age of fifteen or sixteen years. All above this age,
male and female, I would remunerate equally, accord-
ing to the time spent in labor. In the case of young-
er persons, I would grade the remuneration accord-
ing to age as well as time.
Those engaged in teaching and nursing should receive
pay as other laborers. This would make the educa-
tion of the youth, and the care of infancy, so far as

carried onin- the s..,gi oom:and nurse ,the .bsi-
ness-of then ttutionjnd in this way would theybe
guaranteed.  Countingthe industrial hours' ofIthe
nurse and teacher along with other laorars w uld
bring their Gallowance out of ategnat  iedag
Productive industry would thus guaranteehe gen.zzal
education of youth and thecooperative Attaienst
infancy.rM*
Besides these we,honld guarantee-the mesns ad
appurtenances, Qf mentl improvement ;and also re.
lief for. person  asualties, sikeess;infirmity, old
age and the like. Labor gets-he 'us:o f all; the cap-
ital, and I wouldtke these guarantees .ut of the net
yearly ineome, before distributing it 4n the manner
already prescribed. ' A yearly allowance of not less
than ote sixth, nor more than- one third, inightbe set
apart for this purpose.
 The constittin need npt make provision for, any
j     butesident member., Tite fraternity- is the Aim,
and thiscan ony be brought about by hstablishig
like conditions for al.  -"
No. one should bereceived into nembershipwhose
admission any member persists n oplposing.,
A vote of .ne third of all the membassipp,
against any oneon three several trials at intervals of
not less than two week", should be s     bclet for ;his
expulsion  Avote oone'half, twice giwenganst
him at an ,interval of not less .than t o weeks w or a
vote of two thirdswithout being replied, shonidi4
like manner deprive him of the rights and maunities
o membership.
Discordant elements must not be retained in.the
*The effect of seekoning $ae tie of tprofe~siol'tanud
- ~rsn ao    lth     *_ s- o_ eMchin ja
nusn ao ~  a ihti f re1un .ative ab ~   td  o4~ii
sh slightly the allowance to' all kinds of labor; nd .in'nse-
quence to inrea in orro4gin g rt tann      -
*y.  .rpeS        i   eet toa   di  ib l  to all


280

SOCIETY AS IT IS

brotherhood: and the repetition of the trials will
guard against permanent results to any one from has-
ty and ill-considered action.
It would be impossible for all members, when wish-
ing to enter an association, to be able to realize the
ready money for their real estate, and hence it would
be appraised at its cash value at the-time of their be-
coming members, and the proceeds would be divided
to labor-time as already specified. But upon selling
this property, if it had gained in value, there would be
an excess over and above the appraisement, of which
no account should be made upon investing it in the
business of the community ; for like the increase of
value on the estate within, it would be common pro-
perty, subject to an equal distribution to all the in-
mates, and should remain as a permanent investment,
contributing thus to the general prosperity.' Loss in
such a case would be offset by the i crease of value
on property invested. Losses by winds, foods, fire, or
other casualties upon any property belonging to the as-
sociation, would be met in the same way. This would
be the working of the system until the loss should
overbalance all previous gains, and then the original
capital would be diminished and of course have to suf-
fer the loss, in case any distribution of the same
should be made to members.
Since no one would have an interest in the increase
of value, but for the period of his membership, there
should be a yearly valuation of the real estate, so that
If it should come to the dividing of such increase, the
share of each may be known.
Those who are ejected from the association, or
who voluntarily leave it to return to isolation, should
forfeit their right to any share in the increase of
value.
Upon the decease of any inmate, his share of such
increase will, of course, fall to the generalinheritance

g
}d
j
gg
.5f
It
3t4 y
P

AND AS ZT SHOULD BE.
of alL. .This is essentially cornmon property, subject
however, in certain ontingencies, to an eqdal distri-
bution to individuality. It should remain as perrna.
nent stock under all circumstances, except in:; the
event of a dissolution, or the-withdrawalkof members
to enter some other association organizeajp neljke
principles:. It should never be allowed to}ffset charg-
es for maintainance, or to supply the place of any
investment required of members.
Any one who wishes to withdraw should be per-
mitted to do so. Retiring members, whether expelled
or leaving voluntarily, should receive, during the next
ten years, all their stock in equal annual payments
without interest.
All who have mor? than one-hundred dollars to in-
vest, should, upon entering the brotherhood, make a
will regulating the descent of. such propertyasthey
now own, together with all that may hereafter come
into their hands as subject to their disposal by the
terms of the compact. This 'will' should be approv.
ed of by the appointed authority, before such individ-
ual be admitted into full membership. And any one
admitted with less than one hundred dollars, who
shall afterwards obtainn the amount, and also any
member coming of age by the laws of the state, .and
having property at"his, disposal, should in like, man-
ner settle its descent, whenever officially called Upon
to do so. This may .be a necessary, but easy and can-
venient precaution, against troubles froMi heirs out-
side the brotherhood, as well as from certain tem-
bers. of families- within, as, may have an. undue pro-
oclivity for the selfish charms of isolation.
"The officers of the association should be a presi-
dent, secretary, treasurer, a general business director,
supermtendent ofeducation, council of justice, con-
sisting of seven members, three trustees,:;industrial
chiefs,


2B2

SCIry AS IT Is

"The president, secretary, treasurer, director, su-
perintendent of education, and council of justice,
should be elected annually, and serve until their suc-
cessors are duly installed.
" The president should exercise a general superin-
tendetce, preside at -the general meetings, conduct
the general correspondence, and such prudential af-
fairs as he may deem beneficial to the general pro-
gress and government of the institution.
"IThe secretary should record the official proceed-
ings and such other transactions as he shall deem
worthy of note--keeping a general history of the so-
ciety.
" The treasurer should superintend all that pertains
to the finances; and keep a book for the 'daily entry
of the time each one labors, which, together with all
records that pertain to the business or other transac-
tions of the-establishment, should at all times be open
for inspection.
" The director should superintend the general busi-
ness affairs of the community, so as to provide all with
employment, and make such an adjustment of the
industrial operations as will secure harmony and co-
operation in the various branches. To this end he
would have to consult general meetings, other offi-
cers, and especially the industrial chiefs.
The superintendent of education would oversee all
that pertains to mental training, whether of old or
young. He would have charge of the papers, peri-
odicals, books, apparatus, and the like; also, of school-
rooms, reading-rooms, library-rooms, lecture-rooms,
&amp;c.
"9To appoint a board of education and a business
directory, to attend to education and business, in-
Stead of the one superintendent and one director, as
has been specified, would be to weaken and retard
such management, by dividing the responsibility. If

1
1
Y
0
3
t
I
s q q
b
xb
3F
y
.Y
s
v
ya'r
4

AND AS I SUtU   BE.
the business director wants assistance he  can appeal
to the industrial -hiefsor others, In likemanner the
superintendent may authorie. agents of his own
choosing:^-rbut let the management be a unity as far
as practicable.
"The council -of justice would settle disputes and
all questions of right between member and member.
Such decision might be apeale&amp; from to a general
vote, which should'be final.
" The trustees should consist of the three individu-
als who have the largest amount of property invested
in the immediate business of the association.  They
should hold the real estate in behalf of their brethren.
This trust should be so arranged according to the-ex-
perience of others and the advice of legal friends, as
to give perfect security and satisfaction to all.
"Each industrial department should appoint its
own chief in its own way.
"All will, be reckoned inmates of the comrutnity
who are within its precincts as regular residents,
whatever their age.
" Allover sixteen years 6f age who have subscri-
bed to the constitution, should be reckoned as menm-
bers.
"The right of proposing measures, the right of
speech and of suffrage, should in all cases be accord-
ed to all members without distinction of sex ;and any
member, male or female, should be eligible to any Qf-
fiee.
"Annual meetings should be held, and.others, deem-
ed regular, of which due notice may have been give.
No policy of a permanent character. should be adopt-
ed at any but the annual meetings, unless previous
notice may have been givewof the nature of the mea-
sure. contemplated.
" In the election of officers, a plurality of the votis


234              SOCIETY As IT IS

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.        235

given should constitute a choice. In the adoption
of laws, majorities should be decisive.
" Those present at any meeting should be a quo-
rum for business,, unless sickness or other necessity
should prevent the attendance of one third of the
members. A majority of all the members should be
necessary to make any change in the constitution.
"No mem6er should ever indulge in private elec-
tioneering, or resort to any indirect method of affect-
ing the election or defeat of any one, or of securing
the adoption or repeal of any measure whatever.
Such things should be done openly, directly, fairly.
When voting is done by ballot, each voter should
write his or her name on the back of the ticket in
such a way that the judges may see whose it is be-
fore depositing it in the ballot-box. This would tend
to guard against scheming, -underhanded processes,
and promote independence and self-reliance; while
the advantages of concealing the result, as the voting
proceeds, would still be retained by the folded bal-
lot.
"1Charles, if you are not getting weary of details, I
am. I shall only say in addition, that, as a matter of
course, the association would purchase a tract. of
land, locate thereon, and develop its resources; that
as soon as the finances warrant it, there should be a
phalanstery or phalansteries erected for the domestic
accommodation of all as a true brotherhood; that
each family should have its separate apartment or
apartments, but that all should, as a general thing,
eat at the same table ; that an association should,
as far as practicable, directly supply its own wants
with its own productions; that purchases of clothing,
groceries, &amp;c., should be made at wholesale, and
members charged no more than cost; that the use of
tea, coffee, tobacco, drugs and animal food, especially
swine's flesh, should be discouraged; and lastly, that

all intoxicating beverages should be exci4ed. from
the premises by an Mialterable decree.
"It is needless to go further with thesepractical
matters. The object of an investigation like' ours,
should be a- definitive settlerhent of cardinal prin i-
pies, and this in our humble but earnest-way we have
tried to do.  It is general rules only,, in aecordie
with fundamentaI principles, that The organic law of
a transitional community can establish. The details
must be reserved for by-laws. Much as to the minu-
tim of business matters will have to bedlearned by ac-
tual. trial.  Each will live and labor for all, and -all
for each, and they will adopt practical details from the
wants and experiences of one another. For this rea-
son and others,-those who unite in an effortof the
kind should be in-spirit a true. fraternity. 'Then, with
a full understanding of primary' principles,, and the
satisfactory adjustment of the question of labor and
capital, there will be no danger ofa rupture. Order
will be brought out of chaos, harmony out of discord,
peace out of var,' happiness out of misery; love will
pervade, and wisdom direct the creative effort.
"I repeat, that those who associate must be one' in
spirit, and to this end' they must-know each' other
well. But I am told that "we may live for years with
some persons and know but little about them. They
are actors in the drama of life,-do not show their real
character, 'and you cannot detect it."  There might
be cases of this kind, I admit, but they would be rare.
And then, in such, we would'be pretty certain to feel
that there was something which we could not rightly
understand, and this- vould- be an omen 'of evil.---
When an. individual is single-minded and whole-soul-
ed, he is apt to show his- quality, and we feel 'the
truth that is in him,sand know that we are not mis-
taken.
" We must know who our' brethren are, oatdfr

V

s  -
X
(T"
o c
P 4!
e  f
pt
s
ti
r e
4


SOCIETY AS IT IS-

this purpose our constitution should require of every
applicant a probationary residence of several months,
before admitting him as a member.
" According to the views heretofore prevalent, so-
cial science has been deemed altogether competent
to. take hold of men, whatever their development, and
mould them into a scientific community or associa-
tion, as the case may be. Owen erred thus, and the
school of Fourier has erred in the same way. We
have put in our disclaimer against such a mode of
proceeding, and as for myself I shall never expend
endeavors of my own upon an enterprize of the kind.
First of all I demand a development of the individual
which brings him up to that condition in which he
feels the tortures of the social hell which rages around
him, and outrages humanity, searing souIand con-
science. Next I demand that he feel an intense long-
ing for truer conditions. Then, that he have suffi-
cdent confidence in himself and others to believe that
these conditions may be triumphantly established.
Lastly, I demand that those who unite be one in spir-
it as to the great principles of humanitary progress.
There may be diversity of faith, but not antagonism.
"Such a brotherhood, with sufficient business capi-
tal, and efficient business talent, must assuredly tri-
umph. But why urge this? Association, and espe-
cially community, has already triumphed, but the
world is still incredulous. Those who want not\ to
believe, will not, though one rise from the dead ;---
and what if a little brotherhood here and there brave
the perils of the social sea and hail humanity from its
secure and sacred haverti  Why men point their fin-
gers, wag their heads, and affect to .laugh. They
don't believe ;---worse1t they deny that there is any
thing to believe in.  It is not humanity that does
thus, but men. Humanity is a noble thing, and it
goes. steadily forward in the pathway of its destiny,

,a
d t
3  g

triumphant. It will still go upward and carry men
with it, and when the day comes that answers the
prayer, " Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven,"
then will the scornful pointing of the finger be change
ed into the joyful clapping-of hands, and earth and
heaven will be vocal with the jubilee! -very where
will the silent, deep, seraphic rapture be the music of
harmonial victory.
"This, brother Charles, is our last interview for in-
vestigation, and our work is now done. I shall de-
tain you no longer than to saty that I arn ready for
the enterprise. I would-show my faith by my works;
and I am not alone in this,, a§ I have already intima-
ted. There are others as eager as myself to try the
conditions of a truer life.  They will adventure
whether others do or not, but they want co-Workers
if the kindred can be found, and that yourself is one,
Charles, I am convinced.  My social brethren num-
bei nearly a score, young and old.  If they had the
ready money for their property, they would have
about one  thousand dollars apiece; that is nearly
twenty :thousand dollars in- all, for -the enterpiize.
But I will not urge -the matter at this morient. We
part, but to meet again;-so, my brother, I bid you
good bye."'

+f
lp
- i
"t
w.,
y
i.
3  {
a
r
i
s
t4-
x.
+f, t
z
!r
I,
b 'S

237

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

2368

k
AL-


AND AS' I SHOULD BE.         .239-

CHAPTER XVI.
FLAGELLATIONS.       -
After the close of these interviews, Charles was
anxious, as might be supposed, to see his sister Mary,
and accordingly, unless than a week, he started on a
visit to the Union School. He found Mary pleasantly
enough engaged, and happy in the consciousness of
doing good. Charles had a copy of all that-had been
said and written at the different interviews, and this
he gave to Mary, with a history of all that had hap-
pend. le gave a description of the unknown visitor,
and at this Mary-betrayed some nervous agitation,
and a blush came to her cheek. Innocence is never
too pureto be modest, and whilst it is inevitably al-
lied with the grosser necessities of a rudimental ex-
istence. like ours, it must ever blush. Mary knew
full as much of the stranger as Charles did, and, in
fact, rather more. Visions of what would be, had
passed before her, and Mary's visions always have a
meaning. And I should have said, though the reader
may hardly think it credible, that the unknown teach-
er was only a year or two older than Charles.
Having impressed Mary to consider well the social
doctrines and the plan for social elevation which
they accompanied, Charles, after a stay of two or
three days returned to his little home in the country,
to await the coming of Mary at the close of the
term.
Accordingly she came-a day sooner, however,

,y 1
{
1
4{
- L
x
h

than Charles expected and he was away from home.
But Mary was entertained, nevertheless, The, old
lady who lived in Charles' cottage and did all 'the
cooking and housekeeping for her husband, family,
And Charles, had wonderful:stories to tell of what
had been going on in that very house only a month
or two before.
The tenant on Charles' farm was a very good sort
of man., One great virtue of his was, that he mind-
ed his own business and let other people's alone.
Another genial feature of his character was, that
what he did not understand he was not-disposed to
judge uncharitably ;. so that there were many, things
not :accounted for in his philosophy, which he did
not, like the most of his neighbors, consider neoes-
sarily bad. He was not a, member of any Church,
but largely gifted, nevertheless, with what might be
called Christian charity. So far as he had mental
development, he was, as I said, about the right sort
of man.
His 'wife, however, was different. She had an
abundance of what was technically called "grace,"
and this gave her a degree of-pragmatical latitude,
commensurate with her vast abilities for anything like
attending to other people's'business and keeping them
just where they ought to be. -She knew what was
exactly right in all things, from the make of a ser-
mon and the cut of a: dress, down to all the un-
mentionable minutit of -walking into church or eating
a' dinner.' She was always posted up in the affairs of
her neighborhood, and had a special nich:in the tern-
ple of, standard respectability for every one she' lnew,
and could tell, on a very short acquaintances just
where to place anybody. She also entered intoan
elaborate and -detailed investigation of such matters
as -the settlement of .estates, the miunderstanding
between old Mr. Crusty and his neighbor Hobbins,


240              soerIY AS r1 IS:

the ailments of Mrs. Fretful, determining, with much
care and precision, the exact location of .the pains
and aches, the squabbles between Mr. Swigson and his
wife, the last wedding and the next one,,the naming
of everybody's baby, and all the important gossip of
the town-ship-world she lived in. She., prided, her-
self on the variety of subjects she could handle with
ability, and if the question at issue had two sides or
more, she invariably took one, and pronounced her
decision with much emphasis. It. is oddthat such a
personage should be the wife of a renter, but -such
things happen sometimes. Her parents were wealthy,
and she was sure that she had a 'high spirit of her
own; but not content with knowing it herself, she
made it a point to convince others that although her
husband was a poor man, he had a wife that ought
to be rich.
During the interviews between Charles and his
friend, the good lady would listen. There was only
a partition between Charles' studio and the room
she did her knitting and spinning in, and she sat near
the door. She was generally on the look out for
symptoms of secrecy, and if she detected them, she
was bound to know what on earth was going on.
Well, she was convinced that Charles and his friend
were holding secret meetings in the next room, and
she thought it no more than right that she should
hear as much as possible. In fact, she was corning
to the conclusion that Charles was not altogether
capable of attending to the important Matter of his
own reputation, and she felt by a kind of instinct,
that it was her. duty to overhear, so that if anything
out of place should be said or determined on, she
would know it. And if you could have seen her
when she thought she. had got something good, you
would have been. amused at the arch look she would

Al"~ AS IT 'SHOtLD BE.

2-

241

Aunt Nancy, as Charles called her, was always
glad to see company,'and when Mary came she was
delighted as usual. She had something remarkable
to tell, and was anxious for an opportunity to com-
mence.
"Which way is Charles?" inquired- Mary.
"O, he's away somewhere. Hle's gone nearly
every day. I danit tell you where he is or where he
goes, unless it is to see:that stranger that's been comi'
here."
"What !" asked Mary, " have there been strangers
about ?"
"O, yes, it's been a month or more since one-quit
comm'. He was here every day for two weeks.
Where he's gone to now I don't know, and Pai sre
I don't care, for I don't think he's just the sort of
a man he ought to be. He's bein' telling Charles
most abominable things, and I would n't be supprised
if they'd both be lost forever, foi all the bad things
they've said."
"Why, what did they say ?"
"Say? why' a good deal more than I'd like, to tell
you. They talked about everything good, bad, and
nonsensical."
"Then they did say something good ?"
"Not a bit of a good word did 'I hear. 'They
talked about good things and good people in such .a
way as no sinners ought. Their talk was trashy stuff,
and the best of 'it might 'a been better 'ou't was.
But I must say for Charles that he didn't talk as rAch
nor as wicked as the feller that was with 'im."
"I should be' glad to know," said Mary, "some,
things that they did say."
" Well, if you anust know, I'll tell you. Perty
soon after he first eome, he spoke to Charles sow.
thin', 1cottld n't tell exactly what, about red  ek
and he's   e queer, min ddolk iriA, thatf
21


242             SOCIETY AS IT                                        AH

believed in witches, I'd expect somethin' to git the
matter with our old Redback, for, as he said, she's
more than five years. old ; but Mr. Coldines says how
that there's no sich things now-a-days as spirits and
witches, and may be the old cow 'll git living' her days
out."
"Was that the worst they said ?" asked Mary.
"The worst? no; I should think it wasn't. They
talked ever so much against the preachers, and don't
I know very well that if it wasn't for them the world
would all go to the bad place, Miss Hopewell, and so
do you. And then he told Charles 'at if he was to
find some feller on the big road with 'is bones bruised,
he had a right to go into somebody's elses pantry and
take out as much bread and honey as he wanted to.
I tell you what, it would'nt do for him to make so
free about my house. If I didn't scald 'im it would
be because there was no hot water, or no broomstick
to hit 'im with."
You wouldn't scald him with a broomstick ?"
"Hit 'm, I said," retorted Nancy, a little disdain-
fully for Mary's want of understanding.
"If a troop of mendicants, or penniless refugees
from the despotisms of the old world, or. fugitives
from Southern bondage, were to come along way-
worn and hungry, I should be apt to find the way
into your pantry," said Mary, looking mischievously.
To this the good woman gave no reply, except a
hard look, for she had a dreadful suspicion that Mary
had used bad words. And then the idea of. there
being an old world, puzzled her; for, as she said af-
terwards, "Genesis dosn't tell us of any older world
than this." She took a fancy that Mary was too
much inclined to sympathize with those she was tell-
-ng on, and that the disclosures, were mot so welcome
as they would be to a young lady of. the fight sort,
and .o he took it pettishly into .her head;not, to tell

another word about it., But, after a slight pause,Mary
inquired if that was all the stranger had said; This
was too- much of a temptation, and the gossip again
flowed forth as freely as ever:
"Al?   Well, I should think it wasn't all. There
was more said than I'll tell you, -Miss Hopewell ,
"I should like to hear more of it."
"Well, there's one thing yit you ought to know,
an' it's a thing we all ought to know, for whoever
heerd before that if I worked a day, or my husband,
or yourself, Miss 'Hopewell, that we havn't-a" perfect
right to all we can airn. Now, this very thing:that
strange man.told Charles; and I'll declare if .it didn't
make me a little spunky when I heerd it, for I jest
thought if I havn't a right to all I can make, who
has? and if David hasn't a right to the corn and per-
taters he 'raises, what would become of our dear
children? Why, they'd haf to starve. - As soon as
David came in from work I told him about it, and
how do you s'pose the 'simple.man answered me 7"
inquired Nancy, pausing for a reply.    .
"Indeed I don't know; how did he ?"
"Why, all he could say was, 'Hut tut, Nancy,
don't bother yourself about things that you don't un-
derstand. .Charles knows what he is at, and that
stranger is not as bad as you think he is. Isn't din-
ner perty near ready, Nancy.' And I tell you, if it
was my old man, I felt a little roily. He thought I
didn't understand when I -know'd that I did, an' I
just told 'im 'at if we didn't all look sharp thesenfi-
del fellers would soon turn the world so up sido down
'at we'd soon have no dinners to getin a hurry about.
.The-first chance-I had [ told brother Coldines, an"i
you could only heer'n 'im explain these yer2 things
to Mr. Lawease and- Mr. Preachrnanhat was along
with 'imp you'd a been astonished. He could seena io
it better nor David .ul1d.'

AND-, AS. IT- SHOULD ' BE %  243


AND AS 'IT SROOLD BE.       '145

"I presume so," said Mary, "he sees into, or at
least looks into civil as well as divine law."
" I don't know what sort of laws them are, but I
do know that brother Coldines's the best lawyer in
town, and that he understands what reason and com-
mon seme is, for, havn't you heer'n 'im preach about
them things; and if any man can tell you what's
right, he ken. An' while I think of it, I'll just tell
you that he preaches next Sabbath at the meetin'
house, and you ought to go and hear 'im."
"I certainly shall," said Mary; and the good wo-
man was visibly elated.
" But you have not told me all that the talkative
stranger divulged to Charles."
" All? No, and I don't intend to, but I'll just
tell you one more thing. He had sich words over
and over, as 'development,' 'association,' and a whole
pail more sich like, an' if he chaws his tobacker as
much as he did them, I'd hate to buy it fur 'im. But
what I was goin' to say was, 'at there's a place he
called association, which he talked so much about goin'
into; I don't know what for a place it is, only I know
it isn't a good place, and nobody ought to go into it.
I know, too, as how it must be, dangerous, for he
said all sich as go there would have to make their
wills first. Now, Miss Hopewell, wouldn't that look
nice? a young lady like you makin' your will, as if
you was about to die, or a-goin' to war."
" All associationists are engaged in a holy warfare,
they are leaving the beggarly elements of the world,
to enlist under the banner of king Immanuel, and
.bravely fght the battles of the captain of their sal-
vation," replied Mary, with a queenly look and a
strong effort of the will, but kindly directed to silence
Nancy, and Nancy accordingly quailed before Mary's
magnetism and was silent..
Charles soon came, and Mary met him s an affe-

tionate sister would a true brother. She had just
been making the acquaintance of rather a low speci-
men of humanity, found it by no means edifying, and
so was glad to experience the bracing mag~netisnof
one whom she knew, and knew to  e- noble. They
spent the balance of the afternoon in Chlarles studio,
mingling spirit with spirit. In the evening their
provident friend Nancy,-who understood cooking as
well as other things, and always meant the best she
knew, whatever she did, called them out toa'a smoking
supper. Charles would always have his Graham
bread, but Nancy had warm biscuit this time  of the
finest flour, expressly for Mary, and ws -chagrined
that she preferred the brown bread.
" Do you take sugar and cream in your tea, Miss
HopeweH," inquired Nancy.
"I would prefer a cup of cold water, if you please,"
replied Mary.
" O, if I'd a khow'd that, Miss Hopewell, I'd "a
made coffee."
"0, no, I use no coffee either; water is my favorite
beverage, I sometimes drink milk."
«O, well then, you shall have milk," and aunt Nati-
cy bustled -off tothe springhouse forthwith, to get
some milk. But while she was gone -you might al-
most have heard her thinking:
" That Miss HopewelPs no great scratch-I knbw'd
that though by 'ur dress-it's too short by :a foot,
and she lacks more 'an that of bein' a lady;" and as
she thought this, she reached down for the crock.
At the supper table, the brother and =sisetre gave
their chat a greater latitude; and Charles observed
that in his rambles last week he learned more of him-
self than he had ever known before.
"Amongst other things," continued he, "I learned
that I am about to. turn Shaker; and some of, tgn
good friends reldistreeid about it. Others say that

yf
i 5
1  BJ
'
I
j
{
je
'!
3
S _.

244             SOCIETY As IT In


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.         247

I am going to join the Mormons. - They declare that
a Mormon elder has been lecturing me until I am
fairly converted, and that in the fall of this year,
eighteen hundred and fifty-three, I am going out to
Nauvoo,"
At the idea of joining the Mormons at Nauvoo,
Mary and Charles and David laughed, but Aunt
Nancy, who understood these things,.or thought she
did, looked very demure, as much as to say, " My
good friends, it's only too true, and no laughin'-mat-
ter.".-
" And besides that," continued Charles," there is
a pretty general impression, I find, that if I'm not .al-
ready considerably crazy, I soon will be. They say
that I read and study so much, and have such odd
notions, that there must be something wrong."
"That," replied Mary, "was something like the
conversation 1 overheard coming home. There were
four fellows of them who came into the road just be.
fore me, and continued within hearing for more than
a mile. I was compelled to remain in their company,
for when I tried to pass them they spurred up, and
when I tried to fall behind; they took it as leisurely
as myself. They doubtless thought they were en-
tertaining me greatly. I soonsdiscovered that they
were discussing the probabilities of Charles Hope-
well's sanity, and the general opinion was. that he
would be crazy soon, if not so now."
The details of this edifying conversation, which
Mary did not then give, ran as follows ;---omitting,
however, certain em bellishments, which would be too
flashy for these unpretending pages:
Says Jim,"I'll betchu twenty dollars 'at Charley
Hopewell 'ill be crazy in less 'an two years."
"Well," said Tom, " if he's not crazy in that time,
he'll be's crazy 's a 'loon, in ten.'
"I'll betchu what you; dare," said. the third--they
called him Jake,-"I'll betchu what you dare that

he's a little crazy now. He reads, writes, and studies
nearly:all the time. te don't work half the, day.
I'll tell you what 'tis, gentlemen, he reads at feast
one book clair through, every monthof his life, and
I s'pose he must write letters to everybody."
"Well, I never got any uv 'em, aniV 'im dam' glad
uv it," said Ike.
"How many books was that you said he reads
through?" inquired Jim.
" Why, one every month, as big as Coldines' testa-
ment, or one uv 'is lawbooks," answered Jake.
" Goshins," exclaimed the other,," wouldn't that
much reading' set my head to whirlin'? , It makes it
whirl ju to think of it. When we git.to Rtde's
I'm bound to have some more of that old rye. .,I'll
tell you, gentlemen, if I was to read much, I'd haf to
have plenty to drink to make steady with, and keep
my sperits up."  To this - they all gave a hearty as-
sent.
"I'll tell you what it is," continued Jim,"I've been
to school but three months in all my life, an' I larnt
more then 'an I've, ever know'd, what to do with
since."
"Well," said Tom,."I've been to school ,more 'an
that. I larnt to read, write and cypher as far a0 to
the single rule ;"-and here he gave a dignified.and
learned look-" and if any feller ken beat me .ealpu-
latin' what a load of corn, or a side of meat,,or a
barrel of whisky comes to, I'd just like to see 'im at
it."
"'Well, as to that kind of calc'la tin'," said Jake, "I
don't know nuthin' about it, but I do calc'late that
I'm a good hand at a side of bacon,, or a .barrel uv
whisky."  And at this stroke of wit they did sone
big laughing.
"Jake,"-asked one of his cronies, "they say yagie
gum' to git tarrid, is't,a fac?,

',
t Q
_S
'a
'  a
a
;

OAA              SOCIBTY As IT 1$


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.        249

248            SOCIrY AS 18 IS

" Dan' stubborn fact," replied Jake, "but that's
not what we was talkin' about." . They had got to
Rude's by this time, and all stopped. Mary mused
to herself as she rode along:
" That gross being, in the form of a man, is going
to get married to a wife nearly as gross, perhaps, as
himself. It is sad for the race that such things ;must
be; but they will be till the' State advances education,
and puts a stop to the manufacture and sale of in-
toxicating drinks. I am for the Maine law. It is dis-
agreeable to have to live and mingle with such fel-
lows,and be made the subject of their coarse remarks
and vulgar criticisms. And whilst human beings are
permitted to remain so undeveloped, and to make
themselves so beastly, how much better it would be
for the kindred to group together, and with mutual
appreciation, enjoy each other. This is one consider-
ation with me why the advanced should seek con-
geniality in association. And another is, that since in
association there is economy, and in union strength,
such as combine their means and efforts for their own,
and the general good, would be enabled to operate
more successfully upon the .undeveloped classes."
But we must return to the supper-table. Mary
thought the apple-pies and Graham bread excellent,
and in saying what she thought, put Nancyinto such
an excellent humor with herself and her Bloomer
guest, that she entertained sanguine hopes as to
Mary's ladyship, and the good Coldines' sermon the
next Sunday would do.
Early on Sunday morni 'g there was a man seen
riding along with a Buena Vista hat on, and rather
countrifed habiliments in every respect, as .much as
to say," I'm the people's man." It was Coldines, on
his way to the old log meeting-house; 'and the peo-
pie saw him, and were on the qui vive, for they knew
at once that Charles Hopewell would "ech it, '

they said. The word went forth, and the people
came, and the-good uid house was full.
The sermon was a feast, as usual-a feast for re-
formers as well as for anti-reformers, and it would be
a dull soul, whatever his faiththat could notflin-
tertainment in the variety, and I iight say,'diversity
and mixture of such a discourse. I need scarcely
say what the text wash for, as _a general thing, the
preacher is "not apt to stick to the text; but 'still, as
this was a-short one, I will read it: " Evil communi-
cation corrupts good manners."
He gave, in a very satisfactory and conclusive way,
the philosophy of association as it respects the rela-
tion' of ideas and the influence of mind over mind.
He then went on, as the manner of preachers is, to
make the-application. He urged upon, his hearers
the great necessity of seeking such association as
would enable them the more fully and successfully to
adorn their lives with a beautifulgarland of Zhristian
graces. This part of the discourse Charles and Mary
were delighted with.
"Good association," said Coldines,. "is what we
should all seek after.  Secure this, and it Will
strengthen us in virtue, enable us to grow in grace,
and speed us ofiward in the path to 'glory, But,"
continued he, and -his countenance began to lower,
"there is another kind of association talked aboit
now-a-days, and that sort I-would , idvise you tb' be-
ware of. There are, in fact, two kinds :' the associ
ation with infidels and the association ofinfidels. As
to the association which scherhg imen are dressing
up in ribbons and roses to fascinate the'lovers of nov-
elty, and lead them on to ruid, it is, I need not stop
to tell, a machination of the devil to ektbnd and fork
tify the realms of his diabolicat reign. yst.  Sim
and Fourier, a couple of crazy Frenchnn,,'4 b gdh
SAney's rison Life, ch.i13,

'9
.3

e

-


260  SCIET  AS T 18AND AS iT SHOULD 'BE.                                           251

the nefarious work of making bad association for
men. ' Their disciples, Considerant and Louis Blanc,
and others-ofequal infamy, have kept up the vitality
of their doctrines in France, while a few renegades
from Christianity, such as Robert Owen,Robert Dale
Owen, George Ripley, and many more of the same
clique, have contaminated the popular mind of this
country ;'* and lastly, I understand that some of our
Western infidels are aspiring to this highest pinnacle
of human folly. Such association as this would de-
stroy property, law, order, morality, break the mar-
riage contract, annihilate the family ;-in short, pull
up the very pillars of society, and erect upon the
ruins of the once noble structure the palace of the
devil, and gilded mansions for all his high priests I
Such schemes and such men, if we are not on our
guard, may become as pestiferous to Christian socie-
ty as were the frogs and lice to Egypt. They stink
with the pestilential atmosphere of radicalism and the
vileness of infidelity ; and as evil communication cor-
rupts good manners, and as wrong is infectious, I warn
you all -to beware. Keep afar off yourselves, with
your children and your friends. Shun such prowlers
as you would the roaring lion, their master, for like
him they are going about seeking whom they may
devour. Then I exhort you not only, to beware of
the association of such men, but to beware of the as-
sociatipnl with such men. When I. meet with such
dangerous qharacters- in the every day affairs of life,
I recognize :them so far as business requires, but no
further. I1 shun them from a sense of duty, and en-
treat you all to do likewise. It will not do to en-
courage such fellows.- You must put a mark on
thmem, as the Lord did upon Cain of' old, and treat
them as outcasts. You must put them under the ban
of a righteous indignation, treat them with a just
~lTinT Psio ike clh. 13

and christian contempt, and frown them down as
pests of community."
And to give this Coldine bull of excommunication
due force, he struck the hoard in front of the rude
pulpit such a blow, that it danced the bible and
pitcher both off on to the floor:--
" There," said he, " that Book-that good- old
Book-that Book of Books-that only Book, sound
and whole as it is, after centuries of disaster which
have overwhelmed all profane works in eternal obli-
vion, is a fit type of the soundness and integrity of
the truth, as it is in Christ Jesus, and as I have this
day declared it unto you; while that earthen pitcher,
born of clay as it were but yesterday, broken as it
now is, into a thousand fragments, is a fair omen of
the fate which threatens all infidelity, and especially
all schemes of association! Just in this' way have
they all gone to atoms, and always will! Let us ac-
cept the omen, my friends; it is but reason and com-
mon sense that we should !"
And here he gave a look of self-complacent triumph,
as much as to say: " it was Colines did it;" and
there was unusual sensation for a country audience
in the West ; and all the people looked at Charles in
such a way as to say, they would about as lief be the
pitcher as him. But Charles, though almost alone so
far as numbers were concerned, faced the staring
bravely, and after the sermon was ended, he rose and
stated that if the people would tarry for. half an
hour, he would bring the discourse they had just
heard, under a careful review, and, perhaps, they
would be able to detect some sophistry, inconsisten-
cy, and fallacy of statement therein. Charles insisted
that but one half hour would be sufficient for this
purpose. To all of which, Coldines promptly re-
plied:
"The people wish to retire; they came to hear


22              SOCIETY AS IT IS

preaching, and have no desire to hear anything else.
It does not do to mix truth and faith with falsehood
and infidelity. What they have already heard, will,
by the blessing God, do them good ; but to poison it
with an infusion of scepticism, would stupefy the in-
tellect, irritate the passion, neutralize the blessing,
grieve away the spirit, displease our heavenly Father,
and do harm."
At the close of this eloquent sentence there were
several groans of assent, and Coidines prcceeded :-
" Besides all this, we must consider that this is
Sunday, and infidels should not speak on the Lord's
Day." And another volley of groans confirmed what
the speaker said.
°" Letus pray," said the preacher; and all the faith-
ful kneeled, and Coldines prayed, and prayed vehe-
mently that the Lord would deliver his people from
the wiles of Satan and the snares of the infidel.
Next they sung a hymn, and then followed the
benediction, after which the people seemed entranced,
and stood gazing at Charles; but Coldines waved
his hand toward the door, and the people retired, and
many that day saw the hand of the Lord in the dis-
comfiture of Charles and infidelity.

I

CHAPTER XVII.
MARY AND HER AUNT RUTH.
At Church that day, Mary..met with a good old
aunt of hers, and the greeting was warm. and cor-
dial. Aunt Ruth had never been so fortunate as to
meet with her other self, and scarcely hoped to now,
that twenty years or more had come and gone and left
her still alone. Her face was plain, but her soul was
pure, and her heart as warm as ever throbbed in
woman's breast. She had a liberal education and
considerable of native intellect, thought some, and;
was disposed to be liberal in her views; But her
mind had been shaped in the conservative mould, and
though she accepted some of the reform doctrines,
there were others she deemed hideous.. If the re-
cently developed principle was not too unpopular
and not too glaringly at variance with her early
opinion,- but such as could be coupled with what
was to her "sound doctrine," she was pretty sure to
take it into favor. But if it flatly and plainly con-
tradicted the"evangelical faith," she did not hesitate
to reject it ;-for she was proud of her orthodoxy
and her reputation.
She went home with Mary and Charles, and being
warmly attached to them, older than they, and sure
she could not be much wrong in her views, took the
aunt-like liberty of telling them that !she thought
them deeply in error; she urged more particularly
that they should have some care for their reputation.
" You are losing all respect in the eyes oi the peo-


254             SOCIETY AS T IS

ple," said she. "They say that you are wild, vision-
ary, unbalanced; and some even of the better sort of
people declare that you are getting crazy. You
ought to have some regard for public opinion, more
respect for the society in which you live, comply
more fully and cordially with its requirements, be
more like other people, and then you will be honored
and respected, and loved. Otherwise you cannot be
at peace, and without the kind regards of those
around you, you cannot be happy. You ought to
have more respect for your immediate friends and
relatives.  They have kind regards for you, and
would be glad to see you stand high in the esteem
of your neighbors; and more than this, they are in-
volved in your social behavior. I can assure you,
my children, that in bringing disgrace upon your-
selves you grieve all of us. You should have a care
for the feelings of your friends."
Charles and Mary listened with exemplary respect
to all of this friendly counsel; and in reply Mary
said:
" If the spirit of society were right-what it ought
to be-then, indeed, should we be careful to stand in
good repute; but, believing as we do, that society is
corrupt, and its spirit false, we have but littleregard
for its censures. If society were to censure only the
wrong, and approve the right, then to be unpopular
in that society would be to wear the badge of error-
the mark of Cain, as Coldines says; but while socie-
ty, as, at present, so often approves the wrong and
condemns the right, we hold that to be true to our-
selves as individuals of a race destined to become
more and more exalted, we must often do that for
which society will blame us. You know yourself,
my dear aunt, how the idolatry of Fashion and 4lam-
mon prevails, with all the deceit, insincerity, pride,
vanity, and calculating selfishness which attends the

tt
l
l
a   #r
at    {
y
i
IJ
-x    '
-     i
1
f r
4r " 3'6F
i r. s.
f
pp  LF
Y
i
E
i
t

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

sacrifice of humanity to these idols. No, we will not
bow to these ugly images ourselves, andif we do not,
the idolaters will throw stones at us.
"But beside this, there is another idolatry, and
you must not, my .kind aunt, think hard of me if I
implicate you a little here. The sects, and those of
old in whose footsteps the sects follow, have magni-
fied an undeveloped man into the immense propor-
tions of a god, and him they fear, -cringe to, and af-
feet to worship. They tremble at the ideal monster
themselves have created, as though he were an actu-
al being. With this idolatry we are not in sympathy,
and would develop our fellow men into a sphere
which does not demand the sacrifice of true man-
hood to save the soul. Society is in disorder; the
relations of man to man are vicious; and these false
relations of man to man and man to God we must
strive to correct. Our efforts in this direction neces.
sarily make us unpopular, but we shall be conteit to
bear. the rudeness of those we would fain relieve
from the slavery of which they are not conscious.
We must strive to awake them to a sense of their
bondage, and then point out the mode of deliverance.
It has ever been the fortune of the pioneers of hu..
man progress, to meet with resistance from the tar-
dy, and suffer persecution from the stupid and inter-
ested. It was so with Christ himself, with Luther,
and others in religion; it was so with Galileo and
his successors in science; with Jenne';Fulton, Fitch,
and a host of others in art. These have been called
blasphemers, heretics, madruen, fools, and all because
they were 'wiser than their times.' We. are con-
tent to have such exemplars, and like them we will
try to deserve all the opprobrium which -mistaken
conservatism can heap upon us."
"But still," said aunt Ruth, entreatingly, "yop
know the world will have its own way. It is no use


256              SOCIETY AS IT IS

for two or three people to set themselves against
every body else;-they only give themselves trouble
and do no good."
" We think," replied Mary, "that the history of
the world teaches us a different lesson. Every indi-
vidual has his sphere of influence, be it great or
small, and he should act in that sphere to the full ex
tent of his energies. But further than this: if nothing
is effected for the present, something may be for the
future. The next generation may become better
prepared for the reception of truth, and it is but
meet that we apply the filter, and, as far as we can,
separate the clean from the unclean,--and ask our
brethren to do the same."
"You talk of going to association, and that surely
would be folly," replied the good aunt. "People are
too selfish to carry out such a scheme of society, and
you will find it so. They will quarrel with each
other, some will leave, the rest lose their enthusiasm,
and the project will be abandoned."
"I agree with you, aunt," replied Mary; "there
are few who are not too selfish to realize association,
but we must not judge all by the great mass; or if
the many are not ready for a high career, we must
not rein back the few. Those only should attempt
an enterprise of the kind, who find themselves utter-
ly out of place in the general warfare, individual con-
flict, and spiritual degradation which abound in soci-
ety as it is. None should pledge themselves to each
other as brethren for so noble an end as that which
association proposes, except such as feel that they
are kindred, and have confidence in each other. In
such a brotherhood no lasting or dangerous discord
can ever spring up. In fact, although associations
have for the most part heretofore failed, there has
been far less quarrelling than is generaly supposed.
In the Wisconsin Phalanx there was little regard had
for the quality of the social material of which'it was

composed, and yet we are officially told that there
never was a quarrel amongst the members up to the
time that dissolution had become evident., Whether
there was afterward I do not know;-the Phalanxdis-
solved, but speculation was the solvent.' Other asso-
ciations have fallen, and the cause of failure is to be
found in the bringing together of discordant elements;
and the baiting of capital.
"It is a common remark, I am aware, that the
women will quarrel in the .kitchen. If this is neces-
sarily so, woman should blush. In. our large hotels
the boarding of hundreds is a unitary affair, and yet
whatever quarrelling may be done inthe kitchen de-
partment does not prevent the extensive and com-
modious arrangements there made for prompt and.
economical operations. In Paris it is a common
thing for the elite and noble to quarter upon some
hotel as a place of residence; and'here again there is
unity in all that, pertains to procuring and preparing
the food ;-it is there as it should be in association
Now it would be a sad thing if an association. could
not do. what is done every day in the hotels of Paris
and New York. I sometimes fear that.women are
not as well prepared as men for fraternal association,
but if a unitary domestic department in a community
could not be conducted for women's quarreling pro-
pensities, I should not recede from the fieldvof re-
form, but, if possible, redouble my efforts for the ele-
vation of woman.".
"Well," said aunt Ruth, "even if you get along
with your unitary kitchen, still do Ithink .that it
would be wrong to adopt such a domestic policy.
Each family is' a whole, is an orb in the hutmanitary
firmament, and should not blend with others . in tie
social system. In your association the family will be.
destroyed, and I should think that there could be no
sadder catastrophe than this."
" Oh no," replied Mary, "you misapprehend the

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.


AND8 .AS ITSHOULD BE.        259

nature of association. You urge the sovereignty of
the family against our social plan, as some others
urge the sovereignty of the individual. Now, so far
as the individuality of the one man or of the one
woman, or the individuality of the one family is con.
cerned, the social conditions which we propose are
far superior to those which now exist. My true in.
dividuality can only be maintained when I have
within my control such means as are essential to the
development of my true womanhood. Without the
free use of such means, my individual sovereignty is a
mere name. Tp surround me with such social con-
ditions as make the choice of evils a necessity, and
then tell me that I am self-sovereign, because I am
at liberty to choose, is to insult me in the utterance
of a palpable falsehood. Now, in existing society, I
cannot,-at least the great mass of my sisters cannot,
obtain such control of the means of life and develop-
ment, and hence they are not individual sovereigns,
but an aggregate of slaves. It is just so, too, with
the great mass of men. They cannot obtain where-
withal to develop their manhood, without first mak-
ing a sacrifice of manhood itself.
" What is true of the individual is true of that little
coterie of individuals which constitute the family.
Without the control of ample means for the enjoy-
ment of happiness, the true end and aim of familism
cannot be attained. Take a family, noble in spirit
but poor in purse, make it dependant upon the ca-
price of a selfish employer, as employers generally
a d necessarily are, and the very nobility is wrung
from its spirit, till the soul is as shrunken as its purse.
The spirit of the family is gone, and there is nothing
left but the toil-worn body. Now, we intend that
the very contrary of this shall obtain in association.
We design that the individual shall have a soul, and
that the family shall have a soul.
"We hold that the union of one man with one wo.

man for life, is the. eternal and immutable decree of
Nature. We would maintain this twain made one,
and their offspring, a family individuality distinct
from  the balance of the race. They would have
their own separate apartments, and furnish them at
their own expense in their own way. . They would
have their own fireside, their own family communings,
and thus, my dear aunt, you see we would not anni-
hilate the family nor take down its altar. What we
ask is, that individuals observe the requisitions of
family and that the family observe the requisitions of
fraternity. I almost fear, aunt Ruth, that you leave
the element of fraternity out of your social calcula-
tions. This is the great error of society as it- is.
True fraternity is disregarded as far as possible; and
so far as it is necessarily recognized, it is greatly
perverted.
"I am a member of a family, and have brothers
and sisters; but I find kindred spirits elsewhere, and
these, too, are my brethren;' I find these and am at-
tracted to them by the frate1al impulse, and it is
but proper that I should obey te law. We may
labor for the means of life as well with our brethren
of the community as'with the brethren of the family.
Why should we not?   We might habitually partake
of the bounties of the table with one class of breth-
ren as well as with the other. Why not? Clothing is
necessarily individual even in families. The act of pur-
chasing or producing the material therefore ia an as-
sociation should be fraternal; making for minors and
parents and supplying their share of the purchaseniol
ney would be a family'affair; the paying and making
for others and all the wearing would be individual.
"I need say no more. I trust it is plain enough
that we aim to give the fraternal element its natural
and proper place; and in doing this, we do not neces-
sarily subvert individuality either in the person or
the family, but,=on the other hand, assign them

2 58            SOCIETY AS IT IS

j
.5t
.
M
wit
h     _
4     r
,'


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.          261

their true place. The individuality of the person has
its proper orbit to move in, and to go beyond which
detracts from its own integrity. The family has an
individuality, peculiar to itself and its province should
be sacred. Fraternity has a sphere of its own, and
if permitted freedom of action. therein, its integrity
will be in perfect harmony with the integrity of the
family and of the individual.
"That there may be such a thing as discord in the
brotherhood of an association, is no reason .whatever
that fraternity should not be promoted otherwise
than by the selfish and half way modes of existing
society. There is discord in families, and yet the
family must be maintained intact. A true family
would not quarrel, neither would a true brotherhood,
and we should aim at truth in these things as far as
practicable. The dissevering of the race into its in-
dividual elements, as contemplated by some of our
brother socialists, is nothing but a chimera. It neces-
sarily overthrows the family and the brotherhood.
The solidarity of the race is undeniable. Individual
is linked with individual, and family with family. A
magnetic chain binds one to all and all to one, and
there can be no such thing as practical disconnection.
The family must exist and also the fraternity, and in
no wise does the latter conflict with the former."
"1Well," observed aunt Ruth, "even if it should be
as you say, about this, I don't see what you want
with any-thing better than the Gospel. If you would
only live up to that, you would be happy enough
without association. If your new plan of life is not
as good as. the one laid down in the Gospel, you
would not gain but lose in adopting it. If it is bet-
ter, you cannot carry it out, for it seems that Chris-
tians cannot or will not live up to the gospel pre-
cepts. But I am sure you will get nothing better;
and I am sure, too, that you can do no better than
just to take this book"~-pulling the Testament out

y  .
i'
1      f11
S   .K
4 y
r
y f
e
a  ,
y f
.
e , 1RR
1,
4
.eve

of her pocket-"and let these associations alone,"-
looking towardsCharles' manuscripts.
"As we interpret the Gospel," replied Mary, "we,
claim to have nothing:better. The spirit of love and
fraternity therein inculcated is what we desire to re-
alize. 'The Church falls far short of this, and why ?
Have you ever looked into this, my dear aunt? You
admit that the gospellers do not exemplify the Gos-
pel, and yet may be sincere in their professions, and
strive to do the best. They fail, and there is a cause
for that failure. Now, what is it?  If it is to be
found in innate depravity, Christ -was foolish for giv-
ing laws and precepts which the very constitution
of his subjects prevent them from obeying. These
precepts of Jesus may be carried into practice, and
that this is not done in the Church, is because the
members are subject in every day life to the vicious
influence of corrupt social conditions. The chief
wrong in these conditions is individuality and isola-
tion in connection with the acquisition and owner.
ship of property., Out of this isolation and exclu-
siveness grows antagonism, and out of antagonism
.amongst mankind, who should be brethren, proceeds
all manner of viciousness and corruption to develop
diabolism and drag down the spirit.
"In society as it is, the main sweep of individual
endeavor is to the gathering of pelf. Whatever does
not contribute to what is called 'getting along in the
world,' is regarded by the great mass as not worth
caring for. - I have noticed this sordid spirit particu-
larly in the patrons of our common schools. The
great majority have no higher ideal of education than
its practical uses in the. fashionable and business;af,
fairs of life. There is a difference in this respecting
different districts of the country. 'One wants his son
to learn; arithmetic, so that the storekeeper  can't
cheat him; and if-his daughter is toj study the same
branch hereisno other concevtabereasonEthathis

260              SOCIETY AS IT IS

l


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.  '263

mercenary one, why she should. But others, with
more of vanity and less of mammon in them, prefer
the showy accomplishments of fashion to the busi-
ness substantials of mental acquisition.
" One has no higher idea of life than 'getting a liv-
ing,' and getting a living has no higher meaning
than getting plenty to eat and weai'. It is true that
some think about salvation, but this is more par-
ticularly a matter for Sunday; for if attended to
through the week, it is put in between times; and
when business is pressing prayers are cut short, and
grace said in a hurry-by some. There is a cate-
chism which some such have committed to memory
'in the days of their youth,' and now look back to
the drudgery of the task, that it is all over, with a
great deal of satisfaction, and that catechism asks:
'What is the chief end of man?' and answers: 'Man's
chief end is to glorify God, and to enjoy him forev-
er.' It would suit the practice of many better to
read thus: 'What is the chief end of man ?' 'Man's
chief end is to make sure of enough to eat and wear,
and to enjoy it as well as he can.'"'
"This reminds me,"interposed Charles,"of a strik-
ing illustration 1 had the other Sunday, of the grov-
elling spirit which pervades society. As I was com-
ing from the late funeral, I heard a friend of the de-
ceased say: 'It's a pity Pauris died, he was bitten
rich as fast as a feller could."'
Mary resumed: "The circumstances of life unnat-
urally, but legitimately, lead men into this base esti-
mate of the true aims of life, and impel the  award
but downward in the general current of unn.,.nly en-
deavor.e This is a social and moral necessity of
things as they now exist.
" Amongst such as have a plenty for their natural
wants, and those who affect to have, there obtains
what sems to them a higher ideal, and they pompous-
ly strut out Its ctualization. Their catechism should

if
ik
-

read: 'What is the chief end of man?' 'Man's chief
end is to dash through the world with a great deal
of rattle and show, and to enjoy respectability forev-
er.' This, too, is in the Church. It grows out of
ignorance and the false relations which obtain be-
tween man and man, and can only be remedied by
true education and the establishment of true social
conditions. These evils we see and, deplore. We
will not do as the Church,-court them for self-pre-
servation and personal ease and comfort. We will
not attempt the remedy by trifling with the twigs
and branches of the wrong; we will- go to the base
and tear up the tree of evil by its roots. Remove
the cause of wrong and wrong will cease. That is.
our aim. Create the circumstances of fraternity and
fraternity will be a spontaneous production. Create
the conditions of love for the true, and love will gush
forth a perennial spring of present and lasting hap-
piness. In this way only can true Christianity, or
as I should prefer to say, a life of truth and love be
realized.
"Enlighten the intellect, burn selfishness out of
the soul, and men would not be content to remain
in isolation. They would not, as now, think of car-
rying the Gospel in one hand, and the instrumentali-
ties of exclusive wealth in the other. They would
not only know but feel, that the' two were at vari-
ance, and in acting up to the aspirations, of a regen-
erated and sanctified nature, they would-well,.aunt,
what would they do ?" "Well," continued Mary,
"we can only -decide this by ascertaining what, as
history informs us, such have already done. We all
know of~Ifittle band of socialists that lived about
eighteen hundred years ago. They :s9kl:all their
possessions, brought the money*. and laid it at the
apostles' feet. When people got religion in those
days .it had some effect; there was warmth idt, and
It made the soul burn with. love, and so cold a thing

262             SOCIETY AS IT 18

A


264

SOCIETY AS IT IS

as selfishness had no abiding place in the heart of him
that was 'born again.' Faith, too, had power in
these days, for 'all that believed were, together and
had all things common. They sold their possession
and goods and parted them to all as each had need.'
" It is something like this we are aiming at; and
you must not blame us, my dear aunt, for trying to
live, rather than merely profess the truths of your
favorite book. This example was,, given,-it took
form spontaneously as a foreshadowing of what the
whole race would realize in the far off future. Our
exemplars are worthy of imitation, and we are not
ashamed to follow as nearly-as we can in their foot-
steps. They fell into communism because their man
hood was developed by the operations of the spirit,
and selfishness eliminated in the development. The
reason the existing Church prefers isolation and an-
tagonism, to fraternity and harmony, is because the
spirit no longer operates. Manhood remains unde-
veloped and selfishness prevails in the counsel of the
soul. In the mention of soul, I speak of the individ-
ual, for the Church is a body without soul; and so
sure as dead bodies decay, so sure will the cold and
lifeless Church crumble to dust and drift away before
the sweeping winds of heaven."
Disconcerted either by Mary's arguments or her
calm, quiet, but triumphant manner, the kind old
aunt made no further objections, but only expressed
her regret to Mary and Charles, that their case
seemed so hopeless.
" It is not hopeless," replied Mary; "we are Hope-
wells; and I trust that for your own happiness, my
dear aunt, you will not indulge uneasiness or con-
cern on account of our opinions and purposes. You
think us in error, but I know that you believe us
honest in what we believe and ,intend. Why not
consider that inasmuch as our minds are differently
gonstituted, and eduestion unlike- irinany respect,

AND AS IT SHOULD 'BE.

265

we may all look at the highest subjects to which we
can address ourselves, and see them altogether in a
different light, and that one is as likely to be wrong
as another? We cannot all be right, and there is no
one of us, doubtless, but entertains much error. But
while we are thus fallible, we should endeavor to be
sincere and candid; and one may effect good in one
way and another in a different way. We do think,
that under such considerations, all our friends who
differ in opinion from us could afford to be charita-
ble. As to Charles and myself, dear aunt, we -re
bound to you by the ties of .blood relationshipr-xh9re
is, indeed, an affinity in the native quality of your mind
and ours, and we have mutually loved,and for wba.
we deem errors of opinion, we should not .pn4ema.
but pity rather, and still love."
" O, I did not mean to blame you," said aunt Ruth,
earnestly but affectionately,, as a tear started to ,her
eye.
"0 no, I know aunt, that you are i dulgent;; but
how hard it is that such 4ifergaces pf opiui
keep our souls asunder 1"
"There is by.no means, a full gsh of sympathy,"
said Charles,' "but there is attachment stir,. and thp
bond of union is early affection,. earnestness angl 5144,
cerity of purpose, and a broad scriptural mantlegf
charity."
And though there was diversity of opmign thers
was some real comrppni9g of.soul with soul, an4 the
womanly hearts of Mary and her augt throele with
mutual kindness. It was pow titne to rtpre,;a;d ; h
devotional aunt Rpth did not fail to ofder up a sikat
but fervent prayer for the 4elivpiaies of those s e
almost deemed her p*4.ehildent; ap;4 ]Mgry. anh
Charles in entgbresponsannuonsci' ly'gro~eglby
an impulse ofti inyst    ug,      f ing
declining years of tleir klad and affectionate  ud1 Ituth.
23

a'


CHAPTER

XVIII.

OHARLES AND THE WARRENITE.
The next day Charles was visited by a friend who
claimed to belong to the school of Warren. Social-
ism was of course the theme. The visitor objected
to Charles' idea of association, on the ground that a
constitution and by-laws would be necessary.
"Language," said he, "is such an imperfect medium
of thought, that one of your people will interpret the
constitution one way, and another in a different
way; you will soon get at loggerheads about what
our laws mean, and your fanciful ideal of brother.
hood, will be sadly marred in the actualization."
" As to that," replied Charles, "we are both' in-
debted to the English language. You take five sen-
tences of it with which to announce your general
principles; I detail more, and take fifty. Now I
should prefer the fifty, since they would make my
plan of society more definite and understandable than
the five would yours.
"Your school ," continued Charles,"certainly gains
nothing by narrowing down its basis of operations
to five written propositions. One of your expositors
after having written seventy pages on one of these
propositions, and over two hundred on another in
coopection with the first, has charged as misappre-
henslon,an understanding of the limit of individual
soveieignty, as itiferred from his language by several

AND AS IT SHOULD~ BE.         267

of his readers to my certain knowledge, and two of
his critics. Now if it be so ea: y to misapprehend
the principles which lie at the basis of this plan, after
volumes have been written in exposition of the same,
why object to a constitution upon the ground that it
may be differently interpreted ? You recognize cer-
tain principles, without which you say yoy~r plan
cannot be realized. If the doctrine of individual sov-
ereignty, which you claim to be, if possible, the most
important, is so difficult to be understood; and if in-
dividual sovereignty, as you say, cannot be fully in-
stalled without a practical .recognition of the cost
principle, why then it is a radical necessity that these
principles be understood-announced and explained
as they are in English. If an articleof ten sections
in a social constitution should define each of these
principles, and as many by-laws point out the meth-
od of their practical workings, I do not know why
such constitution and by-laws would not answer the
purpose as well as the several volumes which seem
so necessary, and then fail to give clear and definite
ideas of what is meant by the five propositions of the
'Science of Society.'
"I must think that your school is, in this respect,
a little like two or three of our modern sects. They
deny creeds and declare that they are not sects, and
yet they have actually as definite a system of believ-
ing as those which have written creeds;.and what is
worthy of note is that these same no-sects, taking
the Scriptures only for their guide, differ as to what
the Scriptures mean, and areas hostile to each other
as if they had written declarations of faith., We all
learn pretty definitely what theirseveral notions are;
and how? simply frontheir writings and preachings.
Although the creeds are not formally written; they
have them, notwithstanding, virtually end practicaI.
ly. f4 i.st so  rgita iom'qey

0


AND AS IT SHOULD -BE.        289

have no constitution formally written, but they have
one practically, nevertheless;-and if we have a
creed, I dont know but we may as well write it out
by articles and sections.
" We have our principles, without which we think
true association cannot be realized, and we only ask
to express them more definitely by greater amplifi-
cation than five short sentences would be. We
would prefer ten or twenty times five. This might
enable us to dispense with a volume or two on the
practical details and philosophy of our scheme. A
true constitution would be an expression of the unan-
imous voice of all; and the by-laws would be a guide
to the efficient and orderly transaction of business,
and in all this there would be no sacrifice of real
liberty."
" Your close combination," replied the other, "will
not work. To be perfectly harmonious, all interests
must be perfectly individual."
That is impossible," responded Charles; "there
can be no such thing as perfect individuality in human
interests. If you and I instead of owning in partner
ship a horse which both of us want to use, you own
him entirely, and I use him halt' the time, paying half
the expenses, as Warren has it, our interests are not
perfectly individual, unless you can manage so that
the horse will be one thing for you and another for
me. Evidently if I overwork the animal, or founder
him, I unfit him for your service and throw you be-
hind hand in your work. I must say, my fiend, that
this notion of a disconnection and perfect individual.
ism of interest is all nonsense. There can be no
such thing except in the imaginations of men. The
solidarity of the race is God-made, and no man, men,
nor school of socialists can set it aside. Individuals
have connection with each other in their business re-
lations, and always will iiae,.and it it for us not to

!4

dissever interests and promote selfishness at the ex-
pense of fraternity, hut to determine how this busi-
ness relationship shall be one of harmony, and not as
it is now, one of discord."
" Well," said Charles' friend, "we have atleast this
advantage over you:-we have:the management of
our own property affairs, and no unworthy business
agent can run off with our money, or in any way em-
bezzle the funds of the 'association."
b I may not be as well informed," replied Charles,
" as I should be in the history of the various associa-
tions which have sprung :Up since the general abita-
tion of the social question, but in these I have not
heard of any losses whatever by the dishonesty of
business agents. There have been losses by impru-
dent management, but none by dishonest manage-
ment. 1 have never heard of any losses of the kind
in any of the communities, except in the Union Vil-
lages of the Shakers near Lebanon', Ohio. A vulgar
unprincipled man by the name of Sharpe defrauded-
them of a considerable sum, and almost everybody
knows of Sharpe and his swindle. Some of my more in-
telligent neighbors assure me that there is great dan-
ge' of fraudulent operations of this kind in association,
and to prove it they tell me of Sharpe. Not con-
founded by this, I give them a list of associations and
communities, many of which have long been in op-
eration, and ask them to instance another example of
fraud, and I have not found any one who could do
so. Now, all this bugaboo about losing property in
association by fraudulent management, arises from
an intimate practical acquaintance with the dishon-
esty which prevails in existing society, and without
making an allowance either for m  enor conditions;
the shaving and cheating propensities which at pre-
sent prevail,-are transferred by the uinfrtned16krd
todhe mento4   a      ent of sociadei. It-his

26S             SOCIETY AS IT 13


AND AS IT SHOULD BE.          271

tory is on our side here, and more potent with the
most of persons than logic, and to that do we
appeal.
"4Men are losing every day by the mismanage-
ment and dishonesty of partners, and yet men
are entering daily into commercial firms and other
partnership establishments. Yet if we talk of asso-
ciation, our kind friends, concerned for our welfare,
tell us that somebody will run away with our money.
It is, however, but natural that those who are op-
posed to the movement should make some sort of
objection, and this is as convenient a one as could be
used."
" I do not approve of these commercial combina-
tions," replied the other, "any more than I do of
association."
"I am aware of that, but the very fact, notwith-
standing the disadvantages and losses incident there-
to, that men will fraternize in commercial and indus-
trial affairs, charitable institutions, public improve-
ments, &amp;c., &amp;c., should, I think, be taken as evidence
of the associative tendency. This instinct of our
nature may lead either to evil or good, and it is but
wise that we study it, find its proper sphere, give it
full freedom therein, and then will good only attend
its manifestations.
"You spoke of the advantage of having the busi-
ness control of your own property. In this I think
we have an advantage over you-that of consistency.
We acknowledge connection in the business affairs
of men, and we live up to our faith; you declare for
disconnection, and yet there is in all property inter-
ests an inter-relationship which you are compelled
to recognize in -practice.. You must put ,your neigh-
bor under surveillance to satisfy yourself that he is
prudent and hones in business. You mpst examine
Mr9gkepemoka ap d;_. e Ah t bythe ' Show-

maker and his neighbor Joe Blacksmith are not too
profuse in the issue of labor-notes, If my individu-
al sovereignty is to be outraged by meddling with
my business that brethren may visit the penalty of
wrong doing in one way, might it not answer quite
as well to modify a little the plan of meddling, and
also the mode of visiting the penalty or applying the
remedy. There is one thing Iam sure we would
gain, and that is consistency;-the practice would
correspond to the theory."
After some further discussion and friendly conver-
sation, the visitor left, well satisfied that his own
scheme is actually the "science of society."

tY ry:A
7'Y
tst '
4~t
_ r   alY
C         .
sy
.x ky
9
'f
'rP
l     y
eft
J
a
N

4..

40 f 274          SOCIETY AS IT 19

a                                                                                        :4       if        k,    4         h..


AND - AS IT SuOnLD Bn          273

CHAPTER XIX.
THE PROMISES OF ASSOCIATION.
Shortly after Charles' Warrenistic friend had de-
parted, Amelia, a friend of Mary's, came in, and as
the discussion of social doctrines had been fairly be-
gun, Mary, Amelia, and Charles continued it. Ame-
lia was a married woman, with three children pretty
well grown. She deplored isolation and its evils,
and was a socialist by a necessity of her nature. She
had studied the subject, formed her ideal, and was
eager to attempt its actualization. She and her hus-
band were ready for association.
Mary observed that the social scheme had solved
for her the problem of woman's rights. "In the
order of society which social enterprise would estab-
lish," said Mary, "there may be perfect freedom, and
woman may sustain her true relationship to man.
This is what it seems to me never can be in existing
society, lumbered as it is with the awkward and un-
wieldy machinery of political organization.. 'The
world is governed too much,' and as it advances,
should be, and will be governed less and less, until
statutory law is practically unknown. 'Then will the
social body have a living soul to which the members
will be obedient and the movements harmonious.
Political government is phenomenal; it pertains only
to a certain stage of humanitary development; it is
destuied to pass away, and until it does so, there

will be wrong in the premises, and woman must be
content to suffer her share. It.is a necessity. Del.
icate and refined woman does not choose the sphere
of politics, and she never will do so. She may, how-
ever, be driven into it by the ambition and masculine
aspiration of a few of the sex, together with the deilI
and despotism of party. In association it will be
different. In the social community there is no vioe
lence inanything that pertains to suffrage oralegisa
lation,-there is no comingin contatwitvile char+
acters as there would be in State or nationaWpoitr;
Hence perfect freedom in association, in all that be-
longs to the administration of itsgovernment, may be
accorded to woman without fear of necessitating her
precipitation, by the force of false.eircumstance, into
a sphere of action for which she has no tasteor at.
traction, and in which she must peril 'her purity; and
innocence. She will be enfranchised by the common
consent of all, and there will be no misgiving on 'the
part of her brethren or herself as to, the 'conse
quences,
"It may be long before the, political accidents of
undeveloped society will pass awayy that woman may
find relief from the wrongs which pertain thereto,
and enter into a full fruition of a just and reasonable
liberty; but even now, with the rights-of conscience
guaranteed and guarded as they aire, t is woman's
power to -release herself from the' thraldom of eat
isting institutions, social and political. This is true
at least so far as such -thraldom'is peculiar to the
present condition of her sex  She is shut out'frorm
employment in society as it isiaa association the
fields of labor will be free. If womairdoes findlabor
in isolation, she is compensatedsathasring hand;
but in the laborstof the community her remanration
will be the samesas rnans. 'Keptqiatsofi fenployment.
or drivers irntothei4rudgery of tw orstapaidoi1
24


AI  AS IT SHOULD BE.          275

woman is made dependent on man for the means of
a Comfortable living, and then she falls a victim to his
licentiousness. If she escapes as lover she is saeri-
fieed as wife. She has no power to remonstrate;
but open up the channels of labor, compensate her
equally with man, and she is in circumstances of in-
dependence which will enable her more.eaiciently to
protect her own chastity anddemand a decent re-
grd for parity in the habits- of men. Woman will
not be bound-upin a true association as now, by the
for~tles of- fashionable society, and may exercise
greater freedomr as is her right, in matters of court-
ship. And lastly, in all that pertains to education
womaan .will be the rightful peer of man. With these
advantages in association the taxation of her prop-
rty by the State, without representation, will work
norpraeticai wrong to her, and thus, as I .said, by
sorting to association she redeems herself from the
slavery ef society as it is. Association is her refuge
and her hope. When I look at the advantages of
such an enterprise, I do deplore the ignorance and
lfahness which stands in the way of its realization.
Woman seems to be tardy and backward here, but
ae is. waking up, and must yet see the true mode of
her emancipation."
"I have seen it for years,", said Amelia, "and the
eontemplation has pained me, for I saw no.chance for
ita praotioasl adoption. There has been so much ig.
norance, unconcern, apathy; but now that an oppor,
tumity- hasofered and I am able to give my little aid,
I would gladly see the enterprise goon.- - am eager
to realisa- bowething better than in to be found
amsithe wrongs of isolation. I have been weighed
down With #ar., anxiuty, and drudgery, till I am not
Mhtt I    was. Myruling affection isin4llectual;
ay aspir tios, I think  may say, have. always been
thM a~p &amp;imas abeig, mnd  ta bopM. w, v inaa

sanguine, but fell experience has at times - almost
made me despair. Without much property and un-
able to hire help, I have had to support the drudgery
of the kitchen, and the care-taking of my children.
Instead of living up to the aspirations of a human
being, I have had to be a work-brute; and when one
is exhausted, body and soul, in menial service, the
tendency is toward.beastliness, and nothing elsecan
be inade of it. Assodiationwill relieve this care and
anxiety, and drudgery, and these, brute-tendencies.
It will enable us, by sisterly .helpfulnesstod:ivwPQ:
thy of ourselves and the ideal of true womanhood.
And in this tendering mutual assistance and laboring
with each other in fraternal interest, we will develop
a spiritual.sympathy which under circumstances of
isolation can never-obtain. Our interests being har-
monious the conditions of fraternal sympathy are-es-
tablished, and happiness such as earth has seldom
known, will bless-us all Love will be a spontaneous
offering to fraternity.           -
" The drudgery, exposure, and mental inquietude
of life in isolation are fruitful sources of physical de-
pression and ill-health.  Association will remove
these causes of disease, and the physical vigor and
general good health of the inmates will be greatly
promoted.. We might have a 'Water.Oure' and our
physician near. By these meanss we might attract
sojourners among as who should come with ill-health
and go away restored;-taking home with theni a
better idea of humanity than they brought.
"'The industrial ar-rangements of association -will
relieve us-from- the tortures of crushing. toil and hay-
rassing care, and the economies will gi-ve us time and
means, to qualify -ewrselves with mentalacultuanl
the acquisition of knowledge, to enjoy e coimenior
with God and ourselves: We may aim at theohigh-
Ast pitWa. dse1piP ats and ad pU 4uh mens as

OCIS   AS Yr, is


276              sOcIETY AS IT IS

277

AND AS IT SHOULD BE.

seem to us calculated best to promote the end in
view. There we may cultivate the whole mind,
adopt the principles of true education, and briig up
the young in the way they should go. Education
as thorough as it can be made, may begin in youth,
and be carried on through life so as to develop man-
hood and womanhood into the beauty and nobility
of their native proportions. We may cultivate
whatever in science, art, or literature we feel at-
tracted to; and when the pecuniary basis is well es-
tbHshed, we have only to consult our own legiti-
mate tastes, and turn to the means of their grati-
fication."
" We must not be too sanguine. in our anticipa-
tions," said Mary, "but still, what you have said is
true, and all that is required is prudence, to consum-
mate it all. One thing I should rejoice to see in an
association, would be an observatory with a good
telescope and astronomical instruments. It would
be so grand and elevating to look away into the
starry heavens, and contemplate the Creator through
the immensity of his wonderful works! Some might
qualify themselves for service to the science, but I
should value an acquisition of  the kind more for its
moral and spiritual influences.
" We might make geological tours, and in this
way form a practical acquaintance with that won-
derful book in which God has written the natural
history of the earth. We might collect the fossil
relics of those ancient beings which had our world
all to themselves so long before man made his advent
as the subduer of earth. Such a collection of speci-
mens, as the result of our own- energies, would be a
treasure with the values attached. thereto, not only of
science but of fraternity.
"We might occasionally call to our aid other
priests of nature than our own, and learn frem-them

the revelations of the spirit. Science, shorn of its
moral teachings, would have no great charms for me,
but in flashing upon the soul the grandeur of our
God, it -becomes enchanting.
" Healthful and nourishing food would be provided
for the social, oral, and intellectual cravings of the
mind, and it would 'grow in grace,' and attain to the
'full stature of a maii.' Acquisitiveness, deprived of
its morbid aliment, would dwmidle from a monsterto
natural being, and no longer curseR the e M thwit
its mhe benign influence of true association would
not 'be confined to the inmates, but would pervade
society without. It would be, a light kindled on the
hill-tops, sending its gleams into the darkness around.
It would teach by example and also by precept.
It would establish a press, and according to the meas'
ure of its capacity freight its messages to the people
with wisdom and love. It would be a home for the
missionaries of reform. Their families would have
an abiding place in the association, with. opportufl-
ties for labor and with a fair compensation, and thus
the self-sacrificing reformer would be free from anxi-
ety as it concerns either present or future wants.
Reform-teaching should be' made free to the' people,
and this can be done as a general thing only by as-
sociation. Charging so much per head for a -lecture
is abominable, although at present often a necessity
without which the lecture could not be given. The
commercial spirit of the times should be taken into the
reformatory movement as little as possible, and with,
out fraternity of effort; so much money will have to,
be demanded for -so much talk. The truthful who have
truth to give'rejoice to tender it 'without money and
without, price,' and circumstances should be such
that thy may do so. Association for noble pur-.
poses Will consunmate this. It may go further' and

I


278                 SOCIETY AS IT IS

iake worthy young persons of both sexes, qualify
them for usefulness, and send them into the world
as apostles of truth. Much of all this, however,
could only be done when the association is placed on
a firm pecuniary basis. I am sure that the nine-
teenth century will witness the fulfilment of this
day-dream.. But we must not be in haste. We
must fix our eye upon the end, and move forward
steadily and surely toward it, turning neither to the
fight nov io-the left."
d7 am convinced of the correctness of your re-
marks," replied Amelia, "and shall be as patient as
any one through all the intermediate stages of the
enterprise. I look at it in this light, that I may as
well be calm and deliberate, for unwise haste in too
many of us, might defeat the end so eagerly sought,
and isolation atill would scourge us. I long for as.
sociation for my own sake and my children's, but
more particularly for theirs. The worst season in
the rearing of my family is over; our property af-
fairs are now in a prosperous condition, and so far
as my husband and self are concerned we could get
along the way the world goes, but we want advan-
tages for ourselves which association will furnish,
but which we can not have in isolation. We might
be content, however, with our present lot, were it
not for the future uncertainties which we know
to be in reserve for our children.    We, may
have plenty to eat and wear, and procure it with
reasonable effort, but the case may be different with-
them. But if they should not fail in obtaining a suf-
fictency, they may have to purchase it: at the ex-
pense of their noblest aspirations: This is a thought
which I cannot bear. That my children and the ris-
ing generation may live true to themselves is the
great reas'. n why I long for the adoption of better
social conditions. I would have such conditions as

11

I}

would insure success to virtue, an4pot to the wan
of it as now. It is for this reason, and with this
view, that, if I had thousands of dolls, I would still
he as. anxious as at present to participate iuthe so-
cial-movenient.: Jshould wish to assist in thenter-
prises, and would be glad to use all n'ye means. to iti.
sure its immediate sp.cess and establish itaon a fiAm
basis. I see how tragnsitory riches are. The sai
family seldom retains great ,wealth through4m-y
generations ;-rarely mote thiwithrer fgur. The
beginning of a wealthy family is only 4t0i0pt 4
niggardliness, and the end of it dissipation.,.Rea.
tion must follow unnatural action, and, nea pness at
one end corresponds to rieanness at the otber.  A
superabundance of wealth without th4 ,norlpringi-
pIe to use it, but hastens the fail pfpride as; i % d
the overthrow of Rome. Those who are gathering
wealth for their-,cehildrent or already have:it,. and
think that all is well, are d eeivingthemseves. - Ug
less they can succeed in infusing into their Offspring
equal or greater greed than their own.,they run the
risk of furnishing the means and occasions of dissipa-
tion and, idlenesa.: If, they .inspire thejlevotion- of
Mammon, they furnish in ,thei, bequeathedvaalth,
not the means of1happiness,.but of harassing gare aw.
soulless money-making  But since it is so oft the
case-that the indigent child, byindustyy ai4 ,act ap-
propriates to himself the wealth whih Cis toth
rich one, and becomes a manpf induence and h9r1
while the other becomes beggared and worthls ---
it is no surety.against the evils ofpoverty hand wgt
to heap up wealth, for our children.. In, oeiety astit :
is, the getting ofpropertyis } gaumand 4 cratftjest.,..,
and most unprincipled played ges 4he mnost. a
wrongssoul4 be don    way    th   41 good po
ple should la. for their  tirpation. tf I egngt
contribute totheir destrugtiq, I wish  le s 4 see

AND AS I. $HQWI4D,- BE.


280               IOCtETY AS iT IS

AND AS' IT SHOULD -BE.       281

ay children placedgas far as possible beyond- the
'each of these -influences."
"Your remarks," observed Charles, "remind me
of certain objections-which are made to our social pol-
Icy some say that to give capitalio interest will
keep mronied men from entering, while it will entice
the penniless merely to prey upon the benefits of
other people's capital. I answer them by saying
tlftt such as are too sgJfishto share with their breth-
ten; would ha too selfish to be my fraternal peers un-
fti'rcumstances, and that I do not wish to offer
inducements to such to enter into a social enterprize
with me. And as to the intrusions of such as would
enter only to reap the advantages of other's capital,
I answer that as 'guilt will-out,' so will motives, and
that it is no very difficult matter to understand the
symptoms."
"f'am acquainted," replied Amelia, "with six or
eight persons, each.of whom is worsh thousands,-
not many thousands, of course, and yet they all de-
sire association upon the principle of no interest to
capital, and will enter the first opportunity. A part
of these will d6 so for their own immediate good and
the exemplary influence which such an institution
would have upon the social tetidencies of the age.
The othersgare actuated by the double motive of good
to themselves and the rising generation. Besides
these, I am acquainted with others without funds,
whom their brethren with capital would take into
cordial fellowship upon equal terms with themselves.
They are well assured 'that their moneyless friends.
have the right spirit, and are aiming at the true ends
of humanitary' being. The 'selfish, 'judging by their
own 'standard,- would of course impute selfish mo-
tives, for sudh cannot conceive that men may be
disinterested. 'But it 'is, nevertheless, possible for us
to ascertain what the essential germ  of any one'g

.     nature is, and if this gives promise, as it may, of at
gradual development into the fair proportions of
manhood, or womanhood, we may cultivate it for the
beauty of the flowerand' the richness of the fruitage.
An institution: of the kind- could not undertake the
cultivation of any kind of a germ, for that would-be
to throw away its energies, and defeat the end of its
existence.
"But,". continued 'Ameliag return to the rea;
sons for wishing to see the success'fasschttin, I
would instance the- better facilities it woud-nfod
for congenial marriages. In society as iis, this is
almost wholly a matter, of chance, and but-few are
happy in their connubial relations. Nothing pains
my soul more than .to reflect how. many chances
there are -against my own children, should they re.
main subject to theuncertainties of existiag society.
My daughter, impelled by the warmth of-hers afec-
tions, links her being with that of another, who for '
the. time reciprocates' her-attachment, and they .are
partially happy. But they are essentially unlike; a
year or two serves to develop ,this; the sanctifying
influences of innate congeniality 't ever were there,
but affection itself is now gone, and shall the daugh
ter I love be compelled to live in ha-bitual prostitu-
tion with one whom society, and the law-call her
husband ?  Must she pollute the temple of her ou'l,
and under such 'circumstances burthen herself'and
the race' with inferior off'pringi andNall because' the
moral sense of-society is -too gross and besotted to
perceive the soul-destroying wrong 1"If I could
curse 'the wrongs of society andofth e law for any;
thing, it would be for this.' But as -youa.id, Mary,
I will be patient. I will"not revile, ,but labor to rem-
edy.' My -hope is in 'association. There 'wili be
more congeniattr there -than the advaged 'genetatlf
find in isolation, :;If the asso aiatiot shead  e e a:

.
f~,y


282              SOCIETY AS IT. 10

AND AS IT SHOULD BE. -°288

numerous one, or if such institutions should multiply,
and the unmarried generally form an acquaintance
with their peers in other associations, there would be
every opportunity for the suitable mating of such
as would live up to their destiny.
" There will not only be better opportunities for
proper matrimonial alliances, but for better condi-
tions under which to fulfil the duties of maternity.
Under existing conditions, the rich mother is debili.
 tated amidst idleness and dissipation, and is unfit to
bec&amp;me a parent. The poor one is worked into a
brute; and though the circumstances of the 'middle
classes' are better, yet even here the mother has her
distracting cares, feverish apprehensions, and often
oppresive toils. In association the. distraction of
care will be gone, as well as the jading influence of
labor. There will be no apprehensions about the
bread and clothing of the future. The mind of the
prospective mother, surrounded by harmonious cir-
eumstances, will be calm and quiet. Her conditions
will be those of unmixed hopefulness. She will have
the means and opportunities of a high spiritual, cul-
ture, and while she develops her own womanhood,
and out of the benignity of her nature dispenses hap-
piness upon those around her, she may usher into
being a humanitary germ as a promise of the future,
and a blessing to herself and to the race. The laws
of hereditary descent are well known to exist, and
we should be diligent to study, and careful to observe
them.
"I may be an enthusiast, but I regard socialism as
the converging, point of all true reform. Of the
present humanitary efforts, education is,.however,
the greatest. The field of its operations, has greater
. breadth than any other. The youth must first be
disciplined ;-this lies at the- basis of. all---is the most
momentows in its consequences. Until this is achieved

there is no chance for improvement; but discipline
well the mental powers, and then may theological
reform remove the shackles of the old theologies, and
leave the intellect at liberty to search out the true
conditions of mental freedom and spiritual progress.
But practical socialis ra alone an achieve this freedom
and open up the pathway of progress. Social reform,
in all its various branches, is the means of human re-
demption. The bird that is tethered cannot soar
toward heaven, nor can the soul that is fettered. To
the advanced, association is full of promise. Ti' arer-
nity and harmony must triumph. Just so sure-as
men are noble intheir nativeaspirations jdust sosure
must isolation and aits scourges be ;a btndoned f
the truth and beauty and harmony of 'fraternal
union. Much that I say may seem   visionary, but
you know, my friends, that great realities are- genera
ally visions firsi'"
Charles and Mary fully responded to all that
Amelia had said; and they all three sat- for awhile'in
silent communion of §oul, and then Ameliareturned
to her family.

I

I

$
, d
t  .tn    M


AND AS ITL SHtTLD BE.

CHAPTER XX.
-HARLs' MISSION.
-Duiwan Mary's stay the mysterious socialist made
herself and Charles a'visit. How well -he conducted
himself, how manly was his bearing, and how lovely
and intellectual were Mary's manner, and conversa-
tion, I do not design to tell, for which I trust the
reader .will pardon me as well as.dfor the concealment
of the visitor's name.
After the enjoyment of a "feast of. reason and
flow of soul," in a conversational prelibation of the
" good time coming," they all three went on a visit
to the little coterie of socialists of whom the-visitor
had already made honorable mention to Charles.
Having arrived, they received a warm welcome and
an abundance of sympathy. Charles,-who had been
lonely so much and so long, found congenial repose
to his inner self and the sympathy of fraternal spirits.
One, especially, who was there-a sister-spirit pure
and kindred, made glad his heart.
There was a friend of Mary's in the vicinity, who
had been in the habit of meeting with the socialists of
the place, but learning that practical things were
intended, she had made up her mind to be absent.
She was all in love with the theory of socialism, but
doubted its practicability. She was anxious, how-
ever, for others to make the experiment, but pre-
ferred not to help any herself. Mary accordingly
called, and when she did so, told Delia what the
friends were intending.

"Why," said Delia, "you would not go into such
an enterprise--at first, anyhow, would you?"
" Think I should," replied Mary.
"Not right along with the pioneers?"
" Yes, tight along with the pioneers."
"Well, I would want, before starting, to have a
room to  into."
"So would I," answered Mary, " but as soon as
there is work there for my head, heart, or hands I
shall go;"
"You may, but I cannot leave my pte etWhon
to go anywhere."{
" Yes, but, Delia, you would leave it to get married,
would you not?"
Delia blushed an unmistakable affirmative, and
Mary continued:
"Now, your friends by spiritual sympathy:,will, It
is probable, all leave you for community life stone-
where in the West ;-if 'yo- were to go along, you
would be there to assistin the new enterprise by the
very fact:of your presence as well as by your sisterly
council and the labor of your hands. And yet you
would not leave home for allthese considerations,
while you would do so to get' married.!"
Delia blushed again, and Mary proceeded:
"I know that marrying is=eonsiderable of a busi-
ness with us girls, and marrying right should :be
paramount, but still as going into association would
not interfere to the disadvantage of this matter,!
should prefer to assist in the enterprise. -
"Well, to tell the trutl,"replied Delia," Iwould
rather not enter association fortafew years yet-as
long as I have as good a home als I have now. -fel
freer, and' c in'haVe6more"time for selfottste. It.is
between ourselves, Mary;andI Will tell yo;thlt
if I ever 'd4 get married, Iwould pireferto have a
socialist, and t hen Iwant to  t inlt&amp;

( &amp;


8Q3tAI  iAD' AS                                I flULD4)wBE.       1297

I could not endure all the cares of domestic life in
isolation."
"Why, Delia, I fear you are, selfish. As to you
feeling freer here than in the. community, I am sure
that it would be just the reverse. And as to time
for self-eulture, you are always complaining of the
great quantity of work you have to do. I have
thoughtvin reading your letter and hearing you talk,
that you were drudgery's very slave.  Now so
great would be the economies in the community that
we-would have more time than in isolation. 1 am
surely not mistaken about this. What I have feared
most i association, is, that women will not find
labor enough to keep them properly and remunerat-
ingly employed, but our sister ielen Marie Weber
has obviated this difficulty in showing: by precept
and practice, that the:tilling of the soil is well adapted
to female industry.- But none need labor in this
field, but such as feeL attracted to it.
"But. you say you will enter association because
you could not endure the harrassing service of do-
netsic life in isolation. Now, if you should marry a
richer wa who could afford to relieve you of this
service, you would not be particular whether he
were a socialist or not. I should not think, either,
that isolation is the best place to find! a seeialistic
suitor. But, my friend Delia, I must not be too hard
with you.. I will not think that you are calculating
too coolly for self. You are only under theinduence
of the popular magnetism without knowing it. The
opinion of societyaccords to the ceremony pf a priest
or squire, the magical power to cut unaoosa from the
affection io hme8a#4kindred, ard startr usiff with
one wbo: mayklove.us: fore eral mewtbs4 t but it
would ovt,en -:any conditions, grat u&amp;justikeation
iov.leaviag. n. hoe to And a more permanent one iu
&amp; a.   Imaunityof ie bdshoweveriuok wa might

serve ourselves and humanity by doing so. I appre'
heed that you are quailing before this spirit. And
not only so, I fear that you betray that womanish
want of enterprize, which I have so much deplored
in our sex. Our want of independence and enter-
prise makes men -sneer ,when we talk of wo-
man's rights. I think, Delia, it should be a. object
with every one of usto -how an individuality of
character which must challenge the respect of men,
and prove us worthy of all we ask
"For my own part, I feel too much eniapture,
with the cheering promises of social reform to absent
myself from the beginnings of an association when it
most needs help. I am- comfortably-situated where
I am, but as I expect.,to find more desirable condi
tions evertually in the, community, I snust assist,
when I may,.t build up my own home. I am doing
good also as teacher, but I, think that =I can demore
good in assisting to exemplify.aa better mode of life;
and, I must abandon one  field of labor for what
seems to me a better4"
E But, Mary, you. are like nobody else,-. youe-a re
always sacrificing your own comfort for -otherg.eo-
ple's good. I don't believe in doing so much 'without
knowing what I am to get for It."
" You must excuse me, friend Della, if J tell you
that, that is worldly wisdoma, but spiritual foolishness
We only promote our own .tiueinterests by being
more disinterested. We can only be truly happy by
loving our neighbor as ouxrselves and dcing unto
other. as. we would have them 4o torna.:
. Such is Mary'sspitv Sheisa true daughterof
humanity, with a seul thatsyearnsr fe the happin*s
of the race, andwouM be willing,I f  cesarye to
taste the cap of vinegar and galkand bean4heeQwa
of thorns,. Jss is her gret- eempkar. Ruvhe.
h*e lokato *jt her o  eartsha Irda mutm.t is

- aaEcM77 AS IT, t$

i


288              socimTy AS IT IS

wrong there, and regets that she falls so far below
her own ideal ; but when she sees her friends
deliberately adopting a course of conduct which she
could not think of, she is sorely grieved. But she
never indulges in blame. She has a depth of philoso-
phy and a breadth of soul which makes her kind and
tolerant to all.
That evening Mary and Charles attended a meet.
ing of the practical socialists, at which all were
present; including Amelia and her husband.  The
nEWDmnial scheme and the principles upon which it
is based, were made the subject of a free interchange
of thought. The plan was agreed upon by all as one
altogether worthy of acceptance. They admitted,
andthe originator himself amongst the rest, that there
might be parts thereof which a practical test would
enable them greatly to improve. This, -however,
according to the plan itself, would be easily done, if
found necessary or expedient; and as they found
themselves to be" of one mind in the acceptance of
the general spirit and principles as true, and ani.
mated by a oneness of purpose, they anticipated no
difficulty in a practical way from taking the plan as
a basis of practical operations.
Having thus decided, they : ascertained what
aniount of available funds they could all furnish with
which to procure suitable lands for the enter-
prise. Charles and Mary gave their-little, and in all
they made up a sum of about two thousand dollars.
After this, each in turn, commencing with the
youngest, gave his or her idea of what would con-
stitute a good location for - the social experiment.
Thir done they authorized Charles and another of
the brethren, to take' the ready rreans of the fratern-
ty,-and go westward to look out, and if possible
locate, -a suitable place for their future home.
F       i The next day Charles and Mary.set ot theirr
little farm; and as the vacation had nearly expired,

she returned to the school to discharge hipr duties
there, and await the issue of Charles' nission..
NoTs.--f the rader is dissatissed' 'witha'this denoie-
ment, I hunibly codess myself 'unable to-hleip it. If he
wants a better,he will' be so" kind and patidit as'ta  ty
with myself, the next volue-a1 vtne whichda not to:
be written in words, but wrought out in.deeds.. '

THlE purposeE.'

IN parting with the reader, swillju  sa Sey,'persoia
propria, that what is contained in the last few
chapters is not all fiction. One purpose of this
book is, of course, to propagate the doctrines which
it contains; but the principal and immediate object
is to make known the views of a little brotherhood
of socialists, and ascertain whether there be others
who sympathize with our spirit and accept our
principles. The initiatory steps are being taken for
a practical attempt to be based upon the plan here-
in laid down. In the present crisis of things, it will
avail but little to talk about radical social reform.
We must act, and prove our faith by our works.
The people want more evidence of the practicability of
association, and will not exercise - faith until the
demonstration is made ;-and the brave must make it.
If any one should detect that our social policy is
inconsistent or impracticable, he might confer a
favor upon a few of us by pointing out the mischief.
The reasons, however, must be given, or the- warn-
ing will not be heeded. We have no oracles and
accept nothing upon authority. Anything like an
argument will be well considered, but ridicule or
declamation will be taken as evidence of the want of
argument.
2a

ADD AS IT !44q D: BE.

'aw         G.
-'                       -   r    r
.
-,              _                                                                                    1   F2ti
:x,          --                                                                                  i,
* ,.
r                                      '       ?           _                e           fir .
_

}1
A
.

yc 3i tV
r i
yY     .


290                 SOCirTY AS IT IS.

It handled at all by Fourierists and Warrenists,
this little volume expects no handling with gloves on,
nor does it, ask, it. The book may be easily killed,
but if so, the author is willing that it shall die. But
whatever may be its fate, there are a few of us who
design that its doctrines shall live, and clothe them.
selves in an external form less dependent upon popu-
lar favor for existence than this book is. We will
carry out this design for ourselves, but we wish the
o-operation of others. It need hardly be mentioned
bre, that in adding to our number we shall be cau-
tious; but, if we can find true brethren, we shall be
very glad to take them into fellowship.

J fof                                 "
Published &amp; Sold by Longley &amp; Jfrother, CIn'ti, 0.
In order to accommodate "The People," residing in all parts of
the United States, the undersigned Publishers will forward by
return of Fiar MA u,,,any books named in the following List.
The postage will be pre-paid by them at the Cincinnati Ofice.
By this arrangement of paying postage in advance, fifty per cent
is saved to the purchaser. The price of each work, including
postage, is given, so that the exact amount ma be remitted. All
letters containing orders, should be post-paid, u'4{dir e=K, '
follows:                            LoNGLEY &amp; BRoTHEE,
Cincinnati, Ohio.
V-rA Liberal Discount made when purchased by the quantity..
THE SPELLING REFoRM-Instituted to make the education ofthe poor possi-
ble, by rendering the arts of Reading- and Writing pleasant and easy to ac-
quire. PHONOTYPv Is a rational system of spelling words ,s they are pro-
nounced, by employing an enlarged alphabet containing a separate lett r for
each sound, by which means the drudgery of learning to spell is entirely:dis
pensed with, and learning to6 read is accomplished in one fourth of the time -
required in the old way.. PHONOGRAPHY is a truly philosophical method of
writing the English Language, by an alphabet compoed of the simplest geo-
metrical signs, which accurately represent the sounds of spoken- words. It
may be wrttten six times as fast as ordinary longhand, and is equally legible;
and such is the simplicity of the art that its principles may be easily mastered,
even without the aid of a teacher.
In Phonetic Spelling.
Twelve Sheet Lessons, in large type,           -    Price 3o
First Phonetic Reader, (Excelsior Series,) contain-
ing the primer and reading lessons, 72 pages,............10
Second Phonetic'Reader,         .   . : .  .  .   .  .   . 20
Phonetic    Longhand Writer: Exhibiting          various
styles of penmanship,...............................10
Pope's Essay on man. Neatly bound in'cloth, and
gilt lettered,...........................................20     ar
Conversations between a Mother and her Child,               5
Phonetic. Singer, (numeral notation,)         .  .   .  . 15
Bath Fables on Manners, 1 rals, and Faith, . . so
Gems of Thought on moral and religious stbject5, so
The Tjnbalanced, an original story by IL A. Hine, 2
Phonetic Almanac and         Register of the Spelling
and Writing Reform, for 1852.....................        1
Ditto,                    ditto,         1853,IQ
k


LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

In Phonetic Shorthand.
First Lesson in Phonography,       .  .   .  .  ..      5
Manual of Phonography ; being a complete expo-
sition of Phonetic Shorthand, especially adapted so as to
give the fullest instruction to those who have not the benefit
of an oral teacher.
axThis instruction book is just published, and differs from
any other work of the kind in this important' particular: It
thoroughly explains the Phonotypic or new printing alpha.
bet, and its Exercises for writing are printed phonetically,
which enables the pupil to progress more correctly and rap.
idly than if printed in the ordinary orthography. Price, in.
spaeer,a0c; cloth,.......................................50
Essay on the best method of teaching        Phonog-
Declaration of Independence,... .. ..-.-..- 10
Chart of the Shorthand alphabet, for teaching, . 40
In the Common Orthography.
Orthographic Facts and Fancies,        .  .   .  .  .   5
Report on Phone tic Teaching, . .        .  .  .  .   . 3
Lecture on the Spelling Reform, by L. A. Hine,          3
Introduction to Phonography,        ..   .....2
Tracts on the Refor n, per 100 pages,       .  .  .   . 5
line's Progress Pamphlets.        These   pamphlets
have been published in monthly numbers and stitched to.
gether, forming two books of about 200 pages each. They
treat of the Laborer, the Landlord,the Tenant, the Employer,
the Employee, Land Freedom, Man, the School, the Edu.
cator, the Administrator, the Redeemer, the Socialist,......1,00
Human Rights, and their Political Guarantees.
By Judge Hurlbut. An important work,................62
Gold Pens, that cannot be excelled anywhere,
Manufactured for Longley and Brother. Cincinnati, who
pledge themselves to suit customers; if a pen bought of
them is too hard or too soft, if returned immediately, it will
be exchanged for one of a different flexibility. PaRcE, with-
out holder, $1,50, ditto, warranted, $1,75. (By warrant-
ing a pen we mean, that if the point comes off by fair usage,
within a year, by returning the pen a new one will be sup-
lied.  The manufacturer never reprints pens.)  Long
bober with pencil apparatus. 75cts, sliding or extension
ceMder, ditto, $1 25: sent by mail free of postage.
. D-Personssending for pens should state whether to fit a
'large' or taniall holder

A LIST O     WORKS ON SALE.
Onz Phrenology.
Constitution of Man. By Geo. Combe. Author-
ized edition,............................ .... 60
Constitution of. Man. School Edition. Arranged
with  questions ... . .. - .  4....". .'...o... " . a .Y.. .  ....  ...30
Defence of; PhrerQlogy, ,.with Arguments andn
Testimony. By Dr. Boardnan,...........=........... 60
Education, Founded on the Nature of Man* Dr.
Spurzheim,.............s'.. .    .-            60
Familiar Lessons on Phrenology and:Physiology
Muslin, in one volume............ ...............:.... .
Love and Parentage: applied to the Improve.
ment of offspring,........ "..........,.............30
Marriage: Its History and Philosophy, with di-
rections for Happy  Marriages,,................. .....d.50
Memory and Intellectual Improvement: Applied
to Self-Education. By 0. 8. Fowler,. ............-...i-
Mental Science, Lectures on, According to the
Philosophy of Phren ology. By Rev. G S. Weaver,. ......60
Matrimony: or, Phrenology and Physiology ap-
plied to the selection of congenial companions fortlife,. ...30
Phrenology .Proved, Illustrated, and    Applied.
Thirty-seventh edition. A. standard work on the sci nee,..1,25
Phrenology and the Scriptures. By Rev. John
Pierpont,.N........................
Phrenological Guide: Designed for the use of
Students,.........  ..........,........ , ......5
Religion,, Natural and, Revealed, or the Natural
Theology and Moral bearings of Phrenology,....,...........60
Self-Culture and Perfection Of Character, . . . . . 60
Self-Instructor in Phrenology aod Physiology,
Illustrated with one hundred engravings,...........".....30
Temperance and Tight-Lacing. On the. Laws
of Life.  -By  o, .  Fowler,-..... .....:. .. ..; .. .  ..: 15 :;
On P/ sotogy.
Amativeness: or, Evils and Remedies 4   Fce
ive and Perverted Sexuality, with Advice to the Marr,
and Siigle,.............
combe on Infancy ,or, the P iyioltgiz,
Mcral Manage    Okild rgn  Eustra     t M
Qobes    f     kr4      fri
"r      -   d   tbI"t i ^,a .." ito r'tr« r:cb'j .

LIST OF ILTBLICATIONS.

i                                                , J       , fi


LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

Chronic Diseases, Especially Nervous Diseases of
Women.  Important work,................................30
Digest ion, Physiology of. The Principle of Die-
tetics. By Andrew Combe,                          30
tt s.  B  n r, o  b ........ .......................3
Food and Diet; 'Containing an Analysis of every
kind of Food and Drink. By Pereira,...................60
Generation, Philosophy of: Its Abuses, Causes,
Prevention and Cur....................................30
Hereditary Descent: Its Laws and Facts applied
to Huma Improvement. o. 8. F., new edition..............60
M   ernit.y:- or  e Bearing and Nursingof Chil-
imunotiding  male Educat ion. 0 S. Fowler,........60
Natural Laws of Man. By Dr. Spurzheim. A
good work,........  .........................20
mural History of Man.      By Dr. Newman. Il-a
d......................................... ... .60'
Biology, Animal and Mental: Applied         to
ealth of Body and Power of Mind. By 0. S. Fowler,.....60
'*eproductive Organs; Their Diseases, Causes,
and  Cure. Hvdropathically,......... .............. .... .. . .15
Sober and Temperate Life: with Notes and Illus-
trations, by  Louis Cornaro..... .... .... ......... .......30
Tobacco: Its Effect on the Body and Mind.      By
Dr. Shew............................ ........ ... .30
Teeth: Their Structure, Disease, and Manage-
me   with  many  engravings.............................15
Tea    d Coffee: Their Physical, Intellectual and
Moral Effects  By Alcott..............................5
Vegetable Diet, as Sanctioned by Medical men,
and Experience in all ages. By Dr. Alcott,................60
On Hlydropathy, or Water-Cure.
Accidents and Emergencies. By Alfred Smee,
Notes by  Trail.  Illustrated..............................15
Cook-Book, Hydropathic.      With new Recipes.
By R. T. TrallM.D.... ..............60
Children: Their Hydropathic Management in
Health and Disease. By Dr. hew...  .     ....1,25
Consumption: Its Causes, Prevention and Cure, . 60
Experience in Water-Cure, in Acute and other.
Diseases  By Mrs. Nichols........,..................30
Hydropathia Encyclopedia. A cQmplote system
ory aa4ygien. Illustrated. By R. T. Tr.ll.
--.     .. volts ss, with neadj OneTh a   g.

LST OF PUBLICATIONS.
Hydropathy fpr the Peo$e.     Notes by Dr. Trai..
Home Treatment for Sexual Abuses, with ;l.
dropathic .Management. A- Practical Treatise for
Sexes, By Dr. TrsM..................... - --...3-0
Introduction tavthe Water-Cure, with First Prin
ciples,........---. -- ---. -------------  -
Midwifery and the Diseases of Women.      A Pra
tical work. By Dr. Shew.......................1,2
Parent's Guide and Childbirth made Eas        By
Mrs.H. Pendleton,..........    ....
Philosophy of Water-Cure. By John Ballnie,
M. D. k work for Beginners,....... ............ -
Pregnancy -and Childbirth, Water-Cure for Wo-
men, with cases,...................................
Water-Cure Manual; A Popular work on IHydro-
pathy..................................-.-
Reformatory and Miscellaneous.
Cost the Limit of Price: A Scientie Measure of
of honesty in trade; as one of the fundamental principles in
the solution of the Social Problems. By S. P. Andrews......60
Fillmore's Universal Musician: A New Collection
of Secular and Sacred Music, designed for Schools} Musical
Associations, and Parties; with a New and Comprehensive
plan of Instruction, embracing the various Systems of No-
tation. Price, 87cts, retail : per dozen,................$6,00
Hints toward Reforms, in Lectures, Addresses,
and other Writings. By H. Greeley. Second edition en- '
larged, with Crystal Palace...........................,25
Hopes and Helps for the Young of Both Sexes.
By Rev. G. S. Weaver. An excellent work,.......".......60
Innovation Entitled to a Full and Candid Hear,
ing. By John Patterson,....., ...." ........"....15
Labor: Its History and      &amp;spercts.   'Use and
Abuse of Wealth. By Owen,.........................
Power of Kindness; Inculcating the Christian
Principles of Love over Physical Force,............. .30
The True Constitution of Government in the
Sovereignty of'the Individual, as the Final DevelopmLent
of Protestantism, Democracy and Socialisin. By S. P.
A.ndrews,..............*.....     ..  00.....
Woman: Her Editcation and 1ntluence. With
an Introduction by Mrs. C. M.Kirkland..........6
Woman, in all Ages and Nations. An 4uthentic.
Uistoq-y; frnthd~arest A   .... .....

i      i         v 3

4


WEEEY PHONETIC ADVOCATE,
4 Journal of News, Education, Miscellany and Reform.
Printed on an Imperiat Sheet of Good White Paper.
LONOLEY &amp; BROTHER, EDITORS AND PUBLISHERS.
Terms, $2,00, in Advance.
CINCINNATI.
ALnew volume, (the sixth) of this widely circulated and popular
journal, will commence in January, 1b53. It will'then be printed
on entirely aw  fl, of the most beautiful pattern ; and in every
particular the paper will be done up in the best style of the print.
1ng'art
ITS PHONETIC CHARACTER.
The orthography of the ADVOCATE will not conform to that of
Wbbster nor V walker ; but it will be so much more simple and con
sistent that no one will find any difficulty in reading it. As here-
tofore, its object will be to advocate the adoption of the improved
or Phonetic Alphabet,--primarily, as an aid to tjhe pupil in learn-
ing to read the common spelling, and ultimatel*, as an entire sub-
*t tuta for the present inconsistent and cumbersome orthography.
The advantages of a Phonetic Family Paper ar numerous, among
which are, 1-One-eighth more reading matter is printed on the
same sized sheet, in consequence of the omission of silent letters,
double letters, etc.; 2-Poor readers, and children just learning
will rapidly improve under Phonetic training ; 3-The hard words
of our own language, and the foreign names now constantly recur-
ring in the news of the day, will in Phonetic print become as easy
of pronunciation as those most.familiar ; 4-Phonetic reading will
soon correct the improper and slang pronunciations that one may
have carelessly acquired.
ITS EDUCATIONAL AND MISCELLANEOUS CHARACTER.
In the Scientific and Literary departments, the ADVOCATE can be
excelled by but very few weeklies in the United States. It has a
numerous list of talented contributors, who keey its columns well
filled with original EssAYs, DiscussIoNs, BIOGRAPHIEs, STORIES,
PorraY, &amp;%.
COMMERCIAL    AND  AGRICULTURAL.
The interests of the Merchant and the Farmer are attended
to carefully each week, by giving the state of the Market, and care-
fully corrected lists of the Prices Current.
SUPPLEMENT (to the Advocate); a neatly Lithographed
Shorthand Magazine. 75 cents a year ; those who take the Advo-
rate receive the Supplement for 5 cents.
THE YOUTH'S FRIEND, is an elegant monthly paper devoted
to the PHYSICAL. MoRAL, and INTELLECTUAL IMPROVEMENT of the
Youwo. Embellished with Portraits and Historical Illustrations,
partly in the Phonetic orthography. 50cts. a year, 3 copies, $1;
10 copies, $3 ; 20 copies, $5.
For eiTer of the above publications, address, post paid, Longley
&amp; Brother, Cinicinnati 0.

_ -              _         r 1'.  y   'Vi'a
_                 r                    Y._
,
L           '
-.
r
,


  
             
         
       
   
