
    ----CITATION----
        Mignonette, Minnie.. The Armless Sleeve .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7241
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The armless sleeve 
            
               PRICE 5 CENTS, THE ARMLESS SLEEVE. By    Betv It'fs: MANHATTAN PUBLISHNG COMPANY, CHAMBERS ST., COR. CENTRE 1870.       Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1870, by E. J. BOURNEi., in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.   ARMLESS SLEEVE. IT was ill the month of July, in the year 1863, President Lincoln had issued an order to have miore men drafted for the Union army. In a certain town in Connecticut the inhabitants were in great excitement. The order had been received that on a specified day the drafting must commence. Thougji a small place, it had already con- tributed largely, considering the number of inhabitnts, for the war. Widows had bid farewell to only sons, their chief support ; wives had pa:rtecd, with cheerful and patriotic spirits, from tell endeared husband and father; brothers had left their sisters to go out tand face the dangers of the battle-field, and to be exposed to the trials and. temptations of a life in the army. Lovers hadll parted with their aftianced, not knowing whether they should eveer meet again to fulfil their' mutual vows. All this had transpired in the small but prosperous village of A    , within the space of two years; and that many had fallen upon the battle-field and died from disease, the s:ad countenances and mourning dress of many, as they assembled inside of the churchl every Sabbath, told the sad tale. But the end had not yet come. And now the decree from the seat of government had gone forth again, demanding more men. If there were not enough to volun- teer, then they must be compelled to fight by being drafted. As might be expected, everybody in the village was in the great- est excitement; and ainong the most anxious were three families each of which had contributed a member to the W:ar. One was Mrs. Mann, a widow. She had been left in early life withi two sons and a daughter to educate. Mr. Mann, who was much older than his wife, htd accumulated a large fortune, ,and had retired from business and purchased a charming residence in this beautiful town in the valley of the Connecticut, hoping to pass the remainder of his life in the quiet enjoyment of his beloved young wifo and three   4          THE ARMLESS SLEEVE. interesting children. But a few years previous to the war adversity had fallen upon the happy family. Mr. Mann had trusted one whom he supposed to be a friend, to a very large amount, had endorsed notes for him, and in return Mr. Cushing hald forged ,Mr. Mann's name to such a great extent that when the liabilities were all paid- up, he found h h had. but ta very small income left. But the chlm-tin- ing home, having previously been deeded overt to Mrs. Mann, was saved from the generral ruin. The disappointment and loss were greater than Mr. Mann could bear ; he died soon after from illness of only a few days. After his death, Mrs. Mann leasted the manasion, and retired, with her limited income, to a small cottage, and devoted hler time to the education of her children.. George, the eldest, had for soime time been employed iu a stotre in New Haven, and came homle every night. William, alt eighteen,. had reslpolnded to the call of his country. This hadC been ta gereat trial to his mother, and had caused her malny anxiouls hours, but she felt it to be her duty to give him up to the cause of liberty. The was now just c1w1ing into womanhood-a beautiful, high- spirited creature, full of patriotism, who often wished she belonged to the sterner sex, that she might go forth, and, if need be, shed her blood in her country's behalf. Mr. Wilson, once an intimate friend of Mr. Mann's, had always taken a deep interest in the children of his lamented associate. They had grown up together like brothers and sisters. Tillie and Maggie were almost inseparable. Harry Wilson was one year older than William Mann, {and had also joined the first regiment that went from the town of A---- . Albert, the eldest son of Mr. Wilson, was studying law in the city of New York, and Charles was still at home, he being olly fif- teen, but would talk constantly of going into the army; if under' no other capacity, he would go as a drummer boy; but this did not trouble Mr. Wilson much. The other family mentioned was the minister's, Mr. Carter. James, Clarence, and Bertha were respectively about the same ages as Mrs. Mann's children. James Carter had joined the regiment at the same time with Harry Wilson and William Mann. They had been in the army nearly two years, and thus far their parents had no cause to regret, having consented to their volunteering their services.   THE ARMLESS SLEEVE.          5 CHAPTER 11. T-HE day for drafting in the village arrived and none but thoso who had members of their family old enough to go into the army knew the anxiety of that memorable day. It can never be forgotten George Mann, that night, on his way from the depot to his house, was told he was one of the numlll r drafted. His heart, sank within him as he approached his homle. He had that day been promoted in the store where he had been employed since he was sixteen years of age, and during his journey home he had been picturing to him- self how much he would do for his 1mother and sister, inld evecn cau ,t1 himself dreaming of the day when lhe should be able to live, once more in the old mansion. When George reached his home he tried to appear cheery, but his watchful mother saw the clo(ud upon his usually placid counte- ance, and exclaimed, as he entered, "What is the matter, George? Are you drafted? Tell me, quick!" "I am, mother : I just heard of it." "Oh, my God! must I give ztlother ';-on for this cruel war? I cannot! Oh, I cannot! God save me from this great trial!" George and Tillie tried to console her, but, like Rachel of holy record, she "refused to be comforted." Prayer was her only re- fuge. It was a sad household that night; even Maggie, with all her putriotism, could not feel as if she was called upon to part with her only protector. She argued: "William has gone ; why is not that enough?" George returned to the store the next day, and when his employers heard that he was drafted, they said he should never go ; they could not part with such an efficient clerk, and he must get a-substitute. That night, while the little family circle were talking over the matter, George said to his mother : My darling mother, don't feel so troubled.  It makes the trial harder for me to bear when I see you take it so much to heart. I see no alternative but I must go. I am not able to provide a substitute. I am sorry to leave Mr. Harwood, just as I  am promoted, too. I had expected to do so   6          THE ARMLESS SLEEVE. much for your comfort. But never mind ; TilIie wilI take care of you. Perhaps the war won't last much longer, and then we will all settle down again." Just at this moment thoro was a knock at the door, and Albert Wilson and Magg-ie entered. "Where is George?" exclaimed Albert. "Hurrah for the army Suzy, my good fellow, so you are drafted, I hear! I have just come from New York, anmd as I stepped out of the cars the first thing I heard was that George Mann and Clarence Carter were drafted. And the very fellow that wanted to leave his old musty books for a while, and have a little dig at the rebs, must be left out. Now, George, my boy, I want to take your place, and father has given his consent." "Oh, no, Albert! I will never hear of such a thing," said George. "But you must! Listen: Father has Charlie left, and your mother has no son, if you go. I have a father, too, to leave with mother. And there is Malaggie; I know she would rather I would go. Wouldn't you, puss?" "I shan't say," said lMaggie, "for I think it is too bad to 'draft any way. Let the people volunteer." "Now, George," said Albert, "laying all joking aside, I am going, whether or no; I had made up my mind to volunteer, and came home to talk to father about it, and when I heard you was drafted that settled me; I determined, instead of going as a volun-- teer, I would be your substitute." "What does your mother say about it?" said Mrs. Mann. "She does not like it much, but I tell her she has knit grey stockings, and prepared lint enough for the soldiers, to insure my success and safe return, for she has done nothing else since the war broke out." "I cannot be so selfish, Albert, as to have you sacrifice your life for my son," said Mrs. Mann. "Now, Mrs. Mann, you needn't say one word raore. I go in George's place, so that is settled." Tillie sat by, with a tearful eye and beating heart. Of the two, she did not know which would be the most severe trial to part with. For her mother's sake, she knew George's going would be the great- est trial. She had been engaged to Albert for only a few months,   THE ARMLESS SLEEVE. and now it seemed as if her cup of happiness had been taken from her forever. After Albert and' Maggie had gone, Tillie hasstened to her room and gave vent to her feelings in the following manner. "Why, oh why! am I doomed to choose between two evils! I must either part with my dear, dear brother George, or bid farewell-perhaps forever-to my own cherished Albert. How can I! oh, how can I! part with you, my darling loved one? God in mercy help me to bear this terrible trial. Just as the sunlight of prosperity is datwn- ing upon us we must be separated. Now that Albert has completed his studies, and is soon to be admitted at the bart, with such flatter- ing prospects, he must leave his brilliant anticipations and offer himself a sacrifice upon the altar of his country. Oh, Albert! dear Albert! you are too good, too noble, to be thus sacrificed. You are truly one of nature's noblemen; must I give you up? I thought I loved my country, and I do, but not enough to cast all my hopes of future happiness at her feet. I must not let mother, or George, see what I suffer, I will try to gain strength from the true source of comfort." She knelt down and offered up a fervent petition for sub- mission and sustaining power to bear this her first great trial. When she arose from prayer she felt comforted, and mide prepartations for retiring, but it was not until the dawning of day that her troubled mind found repose in the oblivion of that great irestorer sleep. She awoke, unusually late and did not reach the breakfast rooml, until after George had gone to his place of business; so he fortunately did not see the traces of unusual suffering upon his sistei's counte- nance, and before he returned at night, Tillie had her feelings under such control that she seemed like her own cheerful self again. In the course of the day Albert called to see Tillie, he was so full of genuine patriotism and appeared so happy at the prospect of fight- ing in his country's behalf that Tillie was almost ashamed to let him know what she suffered at the thought of parting with him. And although he saw with what fortitude she endeavored to be cheerful and conceal her true feelings from him, he manfully controled his struggle within his own breast, and talked hopefully of the future.   8          THE ARMLESS SLEEVE. CHAPTER III. WtrHE Mr. Iarwood heard of the good fortune of George in ob- taining a substitute so easily, he wrote a congratulatory letter'to Mrs. Mann, and iTcreaed George's salary. But1 the happy mothloler did not know how to receive the congratulation;. On one lhand, sloe had her son fstill with her,  and,  fle o te ter hnmd, Tillie -as sa:ri- ficing her loved onle on the altar of her countly, and i althougI ,LLl tried to wear a cheerful countenance when in the plcc-iice of i rL mother and brother, it was quite evident. she was suffe'rilg veryl- much. But when the trial of parting was really over, Tillie re- sumed her usual duties with cheerful al]a('il. IP a few d-. ys Al- Albert Wilson and Clarenice Carter, with rilly othel; yourel; n-,&e. of, promise in the village, bade farewell to their sorrowing friends. Nothing silcianl cccllcrld on the journey, C. rd in a few .days they arrived at Washington, when they were ordered to meet the Mas- sachusetts and Connecticut regiments, then stationed at A Harry W'Wilson ha:d, fa few weeks previous, been proimoted to first lieu- tenant, and James Carter to second lieutenant of their company. They had heard nothing of their brothers having been drafted, and their surprise can better be imagined than described, when the intelligence came that a company from their native village would join them soon. Their number had been sadly diminished by dis- ease and skirmishes. But little did our heroes think they were so soon to see their own brothers fresh from their beloved homes. "Harry, my boy, how are you?" said Albert, as he came unper- ceived towards Harry, who was giving some orders to his men. ' How came you by thiat stripe upon your rhqlIler?" Harry started at the familiar voice. "Why, Alley, where did you come from?" "Home, to be sure. I thought I would take a run down here and help you fight the rebs. How are you getting along?" "Oh, first-rate. We have had some pletty hot times since I left home."   THE ARMLESS SLEEVE.           9 But they had not much time to speak about home, for the order ,came to be on the march. Clarence Carter saw his brother for a few. moments, and had only time to give the precious mementoes sent to William and, James from the beloved ones at hIome, when they were separated, some of them to pass through untold suffering before they met again. With cheerful alacrity -the regiments moved on, hoping soon to hear the notes of victory reverberate through the coutry'.  But they were doomed to many disappointmcents before the4rea t rebel- lion waTs quelled. Albert and Clarence were obliged) have nm,lny we u'y Iawa mtr:ch through swamps tand mire before thcir anticipations of a :enuinCe battle were realized. They were very enlthusiastic, and every tillme they had an opportunity tyo -rile homi they gZve suh ,l i  - counts about their camp lil0, mlarclles, and adventulres, that it allevi- ated the pain of separation for a iimoe. But they -were lno'w on1 the eve of the great )aJatle of C.  , where so analny no)lle, 1,(eArt,s poured out their life-bllood in their codlntry's 1 rblmK*f.   10          THE ARMLESS SLEEVE. CHAPTER IV. WHo can tell the horrors of a battle-field, after the terrible noise of the cannon and clashing of arms are over, and nothing is heard but the sighs and groans of the wounded and dying? The clear cold moon looked down, upon the field of carnage on the night after the terrible battle of C . There lay the dead and dying, promiscuously thrown together. Two young officers were seen going carefully through the field of carnage. Said one: "I am sure I saw Albert fall. I was off at a distance when his regiment marched up to recruit, and I saw Albert's tall form rising above all the rest just as that deadly charge was made upon our troops, bus when the smoke cleared away I saw nothing more of him." "Oh, Harry, I hope you are deceived; I hope he has not fallen. He is too noble to perish in this manner. Let us search thoroughly before we leave!" So these two young officers went on their sad way seeking their lost brother and friend, James little thinking his brother, too, was one of the number. Just then they heard a groan. They followed the sound, and found a wounded man, so situated in the midst of the helpless dead that he could not move. "Water! water!" he faintly said. And as with some difficulty James Carter succeeded in lifting him from underneath the inanimate mass of human bodies, the man fainted. "Harry, Harry, come quick! I fear we are too late; I fear he is dead. He called for water!" Harry hastened to the spot ; and as they took him out and car- ried him to a clear space in the field, James took his head upon his knee, while Harry, taking some water from his canteen, wet his handkerchief to bathe the disfigured face, and as they removed the blood and dirt from his face, James exclaimed : "My gracious, Harry, it's Clarence!" And sure enough it was his brother, who had fallen in his first battle.   THE ARMLESS SLEEVE.           ]I After a long time and much exertion they succeeded in restoring anilmation; and although Clarence was suffering great agony, he told them to leave him and go find Albert, for they were side by side when he fell. So James took off his overcoat, and folding it up, placed it under Clarence's head, and went to look for Albert, and after searching for a long time, found hilm, apparently lifeless. They brought him to the place where Clarence lay, and James. stayed by then, while Harry went to obtain assistance, and as day was dawning he returned in an ambulance. Albert, in the meantime, having shown symptoms of life, they were gently placed by their affectionate brothers into the ambulance, and taken to an hospital. But James and Harry were permlitted to remain only long enough to see that there was a surgeon to attend to their wounds. It was with sad hearts that Harry and James were obliged to move with their regimuents, but as soon as practicable their wounded brothers were talken to the hospital at Washington.   12          THE ARMLESS SLEEVE. CHAPTER V. As soon as the news reached the homes of our heroes, Mr. Wil- son and Mr. Carter declared their intention of going immediately to Washington. Bertha Carter begged her father to let her ac- company him. He, reluctantly consented, and after she secured his consent she ran to tell Tillie she was going, and she would take any- thing she wished to send Albert and her brother William. "I will go, too,"' said Tillie, "Your brother and mother won't let you go, I fear." "Oh, yes, they will. Did not, Albert go in George's place? It is my duty, and I will go and stay with Albert until he cmln be brought home. I will run and ask mother now. She must and will let me go." Mrs. 3'[Iua told Tillie to wait until George came home that night, and, if "P, was willing, she would not object. When Gaeorge came home, Tillie was at the depot to meet him, and using ,all of her persuavsive powers, she ig:ailned his consent before they reached home. H -iSy pLep. iatio s v w se cLnseinently m-de for their journey, and on the s ond day afterl tihe news was received the party were on their wayv to WtSiaEll , Lgton, lad',n with wines, jellies, lint, and every- thing re3Pi;Nt, to alleviate the sa',turilogs- of theo sick and wounded. Nothing of iltorocst occurred during the journey. The cars did not move half fast enough, and they stopped too long at the various stations, or impatietnt travelers thought. They arrived at Washington two days after Albert had gone through the operation of having his left arm amputated, and Clar- ence his right arm.  They were too low to see their parents or to have any conversation, but when they were asleep Tillie and Bertha were allowed to sit by them and watch them. It was a trying time for our heroines, but they weare sustained by the hope that by good nursing the wounded sufferers would recover. And   so they did. In a few days they were able to converse, and as soon as it was thought prudent, they were carefully removed to their respective homes.   THE ARMLESS SLEEVE    ,      13 While Albert and Clarence were suffering in the lospital, Wil- liam, James, and Harry were limoving from place to place, engaged in skirmishes and battles. At length William Mann was reported killed, and when. the news reacheld Mrs. Mann, she was very much overcome, but did not murmur, for she felt how gently God had dealt with her. It made her love Albert more than ever, to think that through his self-sacrifice she had been spared the affliction of perhaps losing two sons. Finally peace was deilared. The few that were left returned to their respective homes. Harry and James  hald been through many battles, but had escaped unharmed. It was a im:d day to Mrs. Mann when they returned, to klnow that her William was the only one lost out of her circle of friends. Albert had odl'red to release Tillie from her engagement, on account, as he said, of his bein a.1 one-armed fellow. But she would not listen to it ; ,ihe loved him and his arnmless sleeve, as she called it., with 'all the devotion her ardent nature possessed, because le h- had lost his arm by his own sacrifice. Clarence was to marry Maggie, and George Bertha. They had decided to be married in church, and Mr. Carter was to perform the ceremony. There was to be a triple wedldingr, and, of course, in a country village, it caused great excitement. After -the ceremony the whole party were to go to Mrs. Mann's mansion, for George had becolue a partner in Mr. Harwood's firm, and ho had prepared the mansion, unknown to Mrs. Mann, for her reception on his wedding day, where a collation was to be prepared. It was to be a quiet affair ; no dancing, on account of Mrs. Mann's loss and affliction. The day at length arrived. The happy party had entered the church. The spectators had also crowded into the aisles to witness the novel ceremony of marrying three couples at one time, when a carriage drove up to the door, and an emaciated soldier, so. weak that he could not walk without the assistance of a gentleman who was with him, entered the church, and sank, almost fainting, into a seat near the door, and there he remained until the ceremony was over and the party had left the church. Then he returned to, the carriage, and followed the bridal party to Mrs. Mann's. It was with great difficulty that the soldier could command strength enough to enter the house; but, when he did, he advanced,   "         THE ARMLESS SLEEVE. with faltering steps towards Mrs. Mann, and fainted at her feet. It did not take Mrs. Mann long to recognize the emaciated sol- dier, for it wits her son William, who had been almost starved in the Libby Prison, and when he was liberated he was so reduced, both in mind and body, that he had been laying in an hospital ever since the war, his life, part of the time, hanging by a thread. He preferred to take his friends by surprise, and as he left ,the cars he heard the people talking about the triple wedding, so he ordered the carriage to go right to the church. He did not realize how weak he was until he saw the hippy group and recognized his mother. When William recovered from his faint, they all gathered around him to hear his story, but as he was too welak to talk much, his friend, Mr. Campbell, told the story of suffering which William had passed through. It seemed too incredible, but the wan, emaci- ated form told the tale. After some time, as William was reclining upon: the sofa, Albert came up to him, with Tillie leaning upon his arm, looking as bright and beautiful as a June rose, and said : "Well, William, after all you are s. thin, one thing you have, which Clarence and I have not, and that is two arms. What do you think of Maggie and Tillie being willing to marry two armless sleeves?" "I think," said William, "if they had gone through what you have, they woaul be glad to have some one to take care of them." "William," said Tillie. ' did you know that Albert went to the war as George's substitute?" "Indeed I did not. Albert, you are doubly dear to me. Only think of your suffering so much from your sacrificing yourself for another, and that my brother! How can we ever repty yol?" "I think I am more than repaid when I can call this dear one mine," said Albert, as he pressed Tillie to his heart. "What do I care if this sleeve is empty so long as the heart is so noble?" said Tillie. "Now stop, Tillie; no flattery on our wedding day." "Come," said William, who was just recovering his animation, "we have had a triple wedding let us have a triple dance to cele- brate this joyful event."   THE ARMLESS SLEEVE.          15 "Can you bear the noise and confusion of a dance, William dear?" replied Mrs. Mann. "Yes, mother, the sight of you all has made me feel almost well. My friend, Mr. Carmpbell, will play. I think we ought to have a merrly time. Come, take your partners." Mr. Wilson took Mrs. Mann ; the three joyful grooms took their brides, and they had a merry dance. The hours quickly passed, and then the merry party bade their friends adicu, and left home for a wedding tour, while William re- mained at home to be nursed by his happy mother ; and she was re- wardedl; for by kind care and gentle nursing he soon recovered his strength, and after a few months was able to attend to business. Mr. Harwood, in time, retired from the filmn, and Gcorge and William carried on the concern. The residents of A    will long remember the excitement that the triple wedding created, together with the unexpected return of one of the victims of the Libby Prison. -    A HOME IN THE SUNNY SOUTH!  CHEAP EXCURSIONS  NEW YORK, BOSTON, AND PHLADELPHA,  o  ALE     . IGH, . C.,  NI. ., ) A RNETURN. Tickets Issued by North Carolina Land Company Good for 30 Days,  First--Class Tickts- frc m Bo.- ton an d return, $28  "  New -York,     18 to 26 ( " ' L4cPhilatdlphia, 18 to 26 The NORTI CAROLINA LAND COMPANY have now on their books-. for sale, upwards of 2,000,000 acres of ilmproved and unimproved Xi.! -land at all prices, from $1 per' acre and upwards ; some covered with splendid timber, others abounding in the richest minerals, such as gold, copper, iron, coal, etc., and hundreds of improved farms from 50 to 4,000 acres each, with good buildingl, ready for immediate occupancy, 'suitable for f.:rmers of ,iar'e or small lmans, and all kind and sizes of colonies. Also a Jarge number of valuable water powers, several with mills now on, and others with dams built or partially so, together with several thousand acres of the richest  mineral lands in the State. The NORTH CAROLINA LAND COMPANY iSsue the certificates en- titling the holders to purchase tickets at the reduced rates, and to travel at about half fare on all railroads in North Carolina, and also to a deduction of one-third of the usual rates at several of the North Carolina hotels. North Carolina can be visited at any season of the year by Northerners or Europeans, no acclimating being necessary except in some portions of the Eastern coast.  For further details, address the undersigned at P. O., Box 5203, or call on TT. BOURNE, General Northern Agent, [Office A. J. BLEECKER, Esq., Resident Director;] 77 Cedar Street, New York.    
         
       
   
