
    ----CITATION----
        Bricktop.. Fred Douglass and His Mule .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7796
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Fred Douglass and his mule 
            
                 
                ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the COLLIN & SMALL,  In the office of the Librarian of Congreas at 1 "  ' PRUS OF 'WYKKxOO AJBO  FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. A STORY O THE WAR. BY BRICKTOP. "Short rations!" "Commissary department out of repair!" Such exclamations were frequently heard during the earlier days of our late sanguinary toddlebucking, and,a o course, foraging was in order whenever horses were to be fed and soldiers braced up with something more substan tial than glory and eloquent army orders. By the way Isn't it just fun to sit down and listen to the many stories connected with this branch of the service' Of course, one doesn't hear so many of them as he doei of the terrible doings of valor, because, you see, general and colonels didn't do much foraging business, and as a large per cent. of the veterans you meet with at this latE day pretend they were either one or the other, why foraging stories are not so plentiful as they were a few years ago. However, some of these high officers nos and then tell good stories of what happened in theii commands.   4   :   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. A was one of those green warriors, one of those gallant youths who forsook home, friends, creditors, fancy drinks, market deliqates, and ;feather-beds, to go and bleed and sing songs for my country. Some of the memories of- those days still linger with me, and, just for the fun of the thing, I will get, a few of them copyrighted. I blush to acknovledge it, but I was only a private. Maybe, however, if I was telling this story to a single individual or to a select party, I might claim to have been a brigadier-general or somebody-in-chief. But it won't do here, and on account of being well known, I am obliged to tell the truth. What sacrifices a man has to jput up with, who is perishing to see his name to. a book i Virtue fools with its own reward!   We were at Oap Sedgwick, our regiment was, and lon marches and short bites had worried us up to a ! ;po:I1where we looked with watering mouths, even upon : -.anpty pig-pen, or an attenuated mule. Foragingwas 4. 'utiE, although there was a good deal being done in it. - Ian f:act, the whole regjent felt more like meeting a drove :iof sheep then they clthe elst military 6rganization of tthe enemy.  One morning four ot our company, us four received a permit from the coldonel .to take a -ontraband, who had been installed as company servant, and go out a few miles in search of grub, either on the hoof or in sacks, togetler with, of course, all the fun we could gobble us except the fun of getting gobbled up ourselves. It was a nice party.' I wish I had their photographs, for I consider it one of the great vacuums in my career, faiing to secure their shadows for future generations to    FRED, DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.. .   eG   AFBD DOUGLASS AND t   MULEL get patriotic over. We were under Corporal Clam, a lean, cadaverous son of-somewhere down east. The corporal had great expectations, and the only thing I am surprised t is, tfhat he did not finish up the war as-ageneral, or a leaget h ;h'iiai'i6a ifn the papers for doing something terrific. t: e ai'ad studied soldiering ever since he was big enough to haioe 'or ad' risdblieri-the, shade,; an he had the plans ofT all the great battles ard aieges in his head, the real science of all of themfroim thel time of Cah and Abel dowwn to the. battle of t JNile. He wat rot a West Pointer, but he had pointedWest at a tender age, anid wa.  one of the' -rst to respond to that memorable A'   p Call. Corporal Clam ,wa alrso a great disciplinarian , anid stritegist. He bKelirlc   ines and"mining, -in shortF he e beliete bin uering the  nemy by e' '- Ve^^ y^^               m hist-:ry, wfiere onlyprvates, but our: stomcse:ere  as hil .ttoin as thatwAhich our colone cared around with  :'him. ['ack Strap .belonged in Boston, a good, honest, ear^   e dlHow, wh liked funt, tt never laughIe6louder : ' :  :'tis principal characterisies were patrism, lv&nest e  tt an4i a:' long"- nose. .." Theno there was Charlie Btro .o, '   een   - educated for^ alawyer, but owing tosget  Egti       early fe, of prac- tising at 'the wrooi arhe ":lved to die for fiseountry, cheat his crdit  and. di:soint     io fondly believed he would die on the    ' gal , e iwa small szed ifezlloB bu;ul o' lf fu TiZhere was a nth   aa hii sity but 'as he had n  particulai points' I pass hit- over and fondle ;^. "           ,   FRED DOUGLASS' AND UI18 MULE.    7 2awhile with the contraband, Fred Douglass. Our compapy made a charge on this darkey a few wejeks'before, cap- tured him, and after christening him Fred Douglass, made him our company servant. Fred was a character, a real Virginia darkey, who didn't care a fig who got whipped so long as he had an easy time of it himself He was as lean as a box of pipes, and as emphatic in color as a box of blacking. His dress consisted of a pair of pants, checked shirt, odd shoes, and the remains of a tall, soft hat, and if there was anything that he didunderstand in this world, it was the science of mules. Corporal Clam drew us up in line before starting out, and after inspecting us, delivered the following stirring appeal:-         I "Soldiers, the State that owns Mount Vernon looks down upon us. The eyes of the world are turned uipon us. Let us so deport ourselves that history will blush to speak of Thermopylae without mentioning us. We are going into the enemy's country. Let us so behave our. selves that our country will enshrine us, and valor point to us as of her chosen sons. I do not ask you to go, I simply say-follow your commander!" We attempted to applaud him, but he would none of it. 'With a frown that would have made old Mars himself envious, he drew his oft-waved sword and com- manded attention.  "File left! March!" We filed into the turnpike, we filed into the mud, and T, in my struggles, filed on to Fred's heels. He took it in good part, however, and immediately filed his. sixteens upon the shins of Brown, who marqhed in front of him.   8 .     FRED! DOUGLASS' AN3D HS-'MULE; Brown forgot the corporal' little sjpeech and howled' cuss-word 'at that chattel. But a frown from Corporal Clam made, us trenthle,ilnd s6o we marched on. After poddingabou a mile, we came to a fork in the road. Which way togo we knew not, and we began to ;argue the question-we, the r ank d file (Fred Doug- lass was the ad)iz ., It might have led, to demoraliza- tion,'had not our superior cried "Attention!" and, then, "' Halt!l" 'f   - A  To. show hot nicely disciplined we were, we halted without being told twice, and we were abbut to wonder what it all 'meant, when our;l corporal drew a map from ' his pocket. Spreading it out on the ground and taking a pair of compasses he began to study that portion of the '? country. W1e looked on inm mute admiration. How could o urexpedition fail with such'a scientific leadera  - Becoming deeply interested in it, he lost command af his troops, and we broke rank and began to lay off. But our leader: son satisfied himself, and we were again putin mo tion, taking the right handroad. It was the first thing we had taken thus far. t "Tramp, tramp, tratnp, we boys went marching," for at least a mile before: any sign of animation met our anxious vitew. Finally We came in Sight of'a farm- house by the roadside. Our- brave and careful leader -marched with drawn sword' at least two yards in ad- vance, but when we arrived to within a quarter of a mile of -the house, hel halted u-s and began a personal reconnoitre of thdE situation. The enemy i:ight;,be entrenched in the back' yard of-that house. 'Caution! We roosted on: the rail of a   FRED DOUGLASS AND IIS MULE.  a                      k   10     FRED DOUGLASS AND fil MULE. fence while our leader courted the danger. Somebody told a story, and Fred sung a song, or, at least, he had repeated one verse of a song eleven times, when Corporal Clam returned.    . '  - "We are saoi, :'isaid he, with great force. "The enemy probably heard of our approach and has evacuated one of their strofigliolds. Courage and caution. Atten. tion! File right -March'1 ".  We marched in loosem : order, and in about ten minutes the corporal led us ,boldly into the barnyard of the premises, and we began to look about us. ' After convinc- ing himself beyond a-Adoubt ttiat the house had been deserted. By its occupants, he: gave orders to break ranks, and we began to take Stock: I have seen job here was more work in than there was in this,but we t old and were bound to do it. Evidences of the enemy were not so -plentiful as they might have been, but there were lots of other evidences; - ' We went over that deserted house and then charged upon the barn. Thatwas as empty as the house. You couldn't have coaxed a grasshopper to have staid around there with whatP- stock there was on hand. But out behind the barn :We found a nie anda e lonesome dog. The mule had either been out Visitig -or he had escaped from his flying .owner, forle had a bridle on his head and a wicked loo10konhis face . A more perfect picture of lonesomenessw. how ever, could not be imagined . "I gay, boss, dat yer am: de bes' mule in dis yer county,' said Fred, the moment he laid eyes upon him. "Please address me by my rank, sir," replied the cory - poral, heaving his chest out in a heroic way. I A                  '  -e $    FBED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.    " "Fred, we'll court-martial you if you call him 'boss' again," said Charlie Brown. "Wal, I don't know much 'bout war, but I knows mules, un I say dat am a right smart mule," replied Fred, without paying much attention to- what had been said. "By Jove, he would make a, good company mule," said the corporal, dropping his dignity for a moment. "That is so, let's take him prisoner." This from the company. "Agreed. Fred, go catch the brute," said Clam. 'All right, Cop, I'm right on dat, I am," said Fred, marching boldly up towards the long-eared animal. The mule seemed to be waiting for somebody, and the moment the darkey got within hoof shot of him, he raised himself behind and sent one hoof through the crown of his hat and with, the other, chipped off his north ear. Then he turned around and looked at him with an inquiring gaze, that seemingly asked if he wished any further demonstrations. Fred hiwled with pain, and we flew to. his rescue. We forgot rank and expectations and went for that mule; we surrounded the nondescript, we approached him with resolute mien; we gave him to understand that he was a prisoner and that we meant business and the glory of our great and beloved country. The corporal being our leader, we allowed him' to get nearer the animal than we. did. , It was his right, so tc put it, and we were, in too high a state of discipline to, allow, our enthusiasnm to get the .better of us.  Corporal Clam reached hishand out, as if to assure the lonely creature that he was a friend but' just as he   12      FRED DOUGLASS AND, HS MUL:E. was on the point of subduing him to our uses ne made a sudden detour to the right ;and flung his heels into the corporal's stomach, knocking the dignity and strategy all out of him, keeling him, over like; a flapjack done on one side, .ad landing him in a. soft, mixture about-a rod away.      * .       -  Maddened at seeing our leader fall, we rushed upon the beast at' charge bayonet. The situation evidently  appalled him, for he surrendered, and I took him by the bridle and began toi lecture him in adjectives and English exclamations for his perverseness. At this point the dog trotted -up, whether- believing that we were going to slaughter. the mule or not we* could not tell, but he looked aweul hjungry. ;       ^ ;    , . Corporal Clam extricated 'himself from the mire, and, doubled up badly, he approached the group with a look of unutterable homesickness on Iis martial front. He didn't say much, but he made ione of the group that sur- rounded our, captive, and he tried to look satisfied. We werei-on the point of assisting otir-wounded leader to the back of the mule, when the-beast began to teter. Firstl, his forward and then his. hind legs would :go, up, and then he would swing around, and then we swung around and got out of the way of his heels, leaving the mule again free.                 , This wasn't making great progress with the enemy, and we hauled off for consultation. Corporal Clam looked thoughtful. -There was a, change in the tide of battle that stirred his inmost heart and set 'him to {thinking on the genis, and strategy that had saved nations and repu- tations under similar circumstances., Hii, breast hove a    FRED DOUGLASS AND HB MULE.      13 -S   . t                 , - ' '  OL p2'1.1 8-1p... 'e ?"'.   "    nRELD DOUGOLAS AND HS MULE. sigh. his dark eye flashed. Not ,only was his reputation at stake, buthe yearned, with all the breath he had to spair *br revenge. 5' We, the rank and file, withdrew,- so as not to disturb his meditations. He .was evidently communmig with the gotd o6fiwar, and what,:had we cannon-meat to do with such thinIgst red DO:1glass' also panted for revenge. He also had' a ame at sake, lfw'all his boasting ever since our comtpany;catured him had been regarding his prowess witkmules a ;;So-1e tied up his head on the side where he ear ha been chipped off, andlwith us patiently await'ed the resiult of our chiefs cogitations. "Soldiers, I have it!liaid he, at length. :"Eureka!" suggested^Brown. Domino!" put nbtrp.  "Attention! , hisset;i  corporal, frowning at our display of familiarint:" dcol-pany adjectives. We-'felt duly rebu: ad - o :ette  "h  is?.Ss a case th-i-req iPi" muei engi'.enng and stratsgetic skill," said he dxawiing a sketch-bo9k from his pocket.. "We mst capure that mule or die in the last ditch, but wem nust- empl: ih recognzed. arts of war if we wish to take him iniaum',n   The truth: of his statement dawned upon us, and so we bowed to his genius, and then to each other.  "Dat yer am a nice rmule., Cop," said Fred. ":-Oh, a splendid : mle!" we echoed. "   Yes, and to return without him would be a disgrace that would cling ,o us forever and destroy any reputa- tion we may hereafter make.; Attention! Break ranks  and go to the barn and hunt up spades and implements  e; ,. S.                       o   FRID DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.     15 for digging, while I lay out the plan of entrenched ap- proaches." We bowed, and went through that barn; also the house and other outhuildings. We found a hoe, an old rake, and an apology for a shovel. With these we ire turned, and found Corporal Clam busy laying out thie trenches that he proposed to dig for the -purpose of capturing that mule, who, by the way, stood calmly in his tracks, contemplating the scene. The dog had got disgusted, evidently, and had retired in search of a mouse. The corporal was swelling with pride, and besides he was swollen where the mule had kicked him.- - With the air of an embryo Grant or Napoleon he directed us to our work in the trenches. "I say, Cop, suppose that mule should take it into his head to change his base while we are at work here?)' asked Charlie Brown, resting from his scratching with the rake. "Well, private Brown, that has nothing to do with military science. We are to proceed just the same as though the mule was a fortress.-' Science recognizes no suppositions or changes aotside of certain fixed laws and sequences," replied our stern leadedr We bowed to the genius of battle, and worked away like so many beavers. It was sandy soil, and before half an hour had elapsed we had quite a formidable breast- work thrown up in front of that belligerent animal. The corporal of course did not soil his hands with labor;: his was the engineering and the superintending.. What right had we to complain? To share in the glory of such an achievement was quite enough for us \plebeians.   16     'FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.  *.'"Dog gone, if I don't think dt dis yere am de wust, foolishness dat I ebber seen," growled Fred. '"Sir black, if you manifest any more insubordination ,I shall order you under arrest." "'I wish you would, Cop, I'd like the job of guarding. him," said private Jack Strap. . , "Silence!" yelled the corporal, drawing the sword that he had been allowed to 'carry on thi momentous occasion.:   We silenced for a while and ;grubbed on a piec of bacon and some- hard tack, during .which Clam took a detoul'bf the situation and began torlay out morerenches and parallels in thexrear of the. mule. Probably an ambitious son of a musket never had so good, a; chance to  'display his strategy, before in; the. world, and ,Clam was evidently boundi to makei ,the; most ,of it. " , i ,   But we m unched. our short rations and grumbled the John Brown hymn to brace our spirits up. But by this time the long shadows: began fo warn ;us; of the ap. ' proach of night; and,;as if to scoff'at our labor and our leader's; ingenuityi that beleaguered mule aetually had the audacity to lay down and watch operations.. "How about night?"I asked; as :the corporal re- 'turned to where wes sat. :  ' ,Y - es," Y said he, taking an, observation,. "that must ;be taken into ::onsideration. The mule will -undoubtedly -remnainL where he is for a;week at least, especially if he thinks there is a ,chance. of getting lanother kick at us, so we will prepare to go into camp for the;night; and, happy ;thought! Iwill reconnoitre.'  "Golly, I wish: I could reach-an-oyster!" growled   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.     17 FRED DOUGL4SS IN ANOTHER CHARACTER. AS A VIRGINIA BREAKDOWNIST HE HAD BUT FEW, IF ANY EQUALS, EITHER ON OR OFF THE STAGE; AND, LOG AFTER THE ADVENTURES CON- NECTED WITH THS MULE, WE USED TO DRESS HM UP IN COS- TUME BORROW A BANJOI   FROM ANOTHER COMPANYACTER. ANDS I ENJOY THEIIK PERFORMANCES IN SINGING AND DANCIN'.] BUT: "ET US PROCEED.    18     FRiAt OUg"SiA8 AND HS IULE. Fred, as the corporal turned to view the land more closely. "Keep quiet, Fred; you will never make a aoIdier if you talk back to your, superiors that way," said Brown. "Dat be blowed, I arn't no sloger; don't want to be a sloger; I'm a mule-man, I am," he gowled again. "And-I am a hungry man," sad Strap. "Keep quiet, boys, I see corn," s4i Fred. "A little corning wuldnt go bad," suggested Strap. "I'mgwine for dat corn," eoinmued the darkey, and away he went for a neighboring cornfield. While he was away te Corporal concluded that the best thing we could do, or; rther, the safest place for his command would be to ecap in the farmhouse. This idea 1le e. us, and we at once built a fire inthe old- fashioned f eplac, i d h, d it ready when Fred yeturned with t;hi .rJuig. we A fclnr .iontiation of our bacon and hni, tack fooWed, and we began to feel like conquering Of pouse, the, 'corp(oral could niot mingle with his men, and so, after appolnting me officer of the day, he retired to the attic to meditate over his plans for thenext day. It became my duty to mount the guard, and as Fred was the best man for the purpose I trotted him out and gave him the pass-word. What!, wasn't that war? Night crept on apace, and we beguiled the time by telling stories, singing songs, and bothering the guard; ai the same time we realized how liable the greatest warriors are to make mistakes, forwe had neglected to bripg any whisky or a deck of cards. Fred Douglass didn't half like his position. It was   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.      19   20Q     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. evident from the start that he felt disgusted with the mode of procedure, and now that he' was boss of the camphe resolved to try once more to capture the sleeping mule. It was about eleven o'clock. The moon was on duty that night, and we had retired, sleeping on our arms.  Presently we were awakened by a most unearthly noise of yelling and mule-singing combined. We grasped our muskets and rushed outtof the house. What a sight presented itself! In the dead hour and middle of the fnight Fred had approached the reclining mule and at- tempted to capture himinwithout any resort to Strategy. The attempt had evidently failed, forinstead of capturing the mule, the mule had captured him, and was hding him up. by the seat of his baggy pants, at the same time * chanting a pen of victory and sendineg out hiis heels at all points of the compass, as though in quest of imagiiary i- l-fees. .         -       f As The situation was critical. We rushed to th poor ' fellow's rescue, followed by Corporal Clam, who had:also 'been aroused by the mu]e's whisperings and the darkey's yelling. We approached the mule at charge bayonetand, *seeing that we meant business, he dropped the contraband :upon the ground, who, no sooner felt himself at liberty ithan he capered away iright 'lively. We also withdrew out of range of those heels that fhe still sent out in first one direction and then anotier. :  "I's clean gone on dat yer dam mule. He's de- 'eussedest knowing .mule dat ebber I seed," said Fred, -abbivng for repiairs.-  - It serves you right," said the corporal, with great  -        y                FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.     21 indignation. "It serves-you right for disobeying orders, and I have half a mind to order you to the guard-house. Officer," he added, turning to me, "see that my commands are not trifled with again. This shows you that I was right, and that it would be dangerous to attempt the capture of. that ferocious beast without resorting to the arts of war." "We bowed, in token of his superior knowledge, and he again sought his quarters in the upper part of the house. "Gosh dnir dat yer mule; he am de berry debbel," said Fred, "H guess dat de Cop is right. It would take the. whole regiment to capture dat mule." "Obey ordershereafter; and, asa punishment for your action, I shall keep you on guard the remainder of the night," I said, as we turned away. "Better hire a man to watch me, boss," said he "'What! .would you desert?" "I's gwine to git clean out of dis yer right away; am, shure." "Fred, I dislike to kill you; to stretch your manly form upon this newly shoveled earth, and I will give you a chance for your life; I shall keep you coered with my musket when I return to: the house, and the first move I see made indicative of deserting your post, I shall proceed to put an ar-hole through you." Fred withered,? and, I returned to the house. There was no further trouble that 'night, although he slept soundly upon the breastworks.  The next morningw we ere up betimes, and sent Fred for some more corn, at the expense of which (and ^' . " *, ^'   O      FiSD DOUGASR AND H  Oiji . . thero ib  ter) Wo made  b4ealdat. The corporaI's bitro  chiebedwwith the tUiinider and lightning ot ri  t  d iitdetid ^g. No ooner hiad - we fihised oiiur frutgal meald aida -ligted our, pipe i then we were again ridered toithe ' trhe- i to worki. , , , Cor"oil; Olati sohi -begi t"to :deVelot some bf the strategy that he had. been thiikng up dtring the i imight, and the irst thtig lie AiT, an8d. " th his own hand8 tho, was t o & i  :t ai-'dty  bariel on the breastworks, pointed if the direction of the still re- lihoin nul]e. -I was to- 'ebeiv :the eiiny, he said, and miaake them believe that we h:ad heavy artillet that we could bringlo bear. 'AAhotie 'feiture was the raising Aof a flag (nd inscribing on it ".'t .Clvm" Things looked decidedly active and WItike. iLttle by little we dug 'oir way towars * that ine. Shovelfil by shovelful we hurif  on, Bure bf' ulti. mate victory. The corporal watched i4ii ti'oni:with the eye of a Wellingtoi  "I say, Cop, hadn't we better send Fred to get 'soie corn -forthe niile?": asIked, wipiiig the peispiration from mypatriotic brw.  "-Wherfrefore, private " ':He mtghtt get hungry and start 6f." '- WhyO this unseemly sardasm I know my busi- ness, and the iuile lnoWs his. -Biit f red tight go nad forage or ooui din?  he added, In a descending a .,mod1 . .'-.: n      :.m int a bo  mood. s   ^    - - * X-ai i "Dat's my best hold, Cop," said the darkey, th ig -dowiiihs spade arnd transfoming himseif into a broad grna L       Y            o'   tr t     ,  : 1? ' 1^ a, rM r . ( :;: sr 11 - t I 's  !JI        11 ;      s, ffi ffi $ 5  ts I   24      FRED DOUGLASS AND :iS MULE. "Well, go; but don't allow yourself to be surprised, for you know we are in the enemy's country." Fred retired, andS we tired ourselves, but managed to keep our spirits up by singing while we worked- '( Minyi are th hearits that are weary to night, Praying that the war might cease," etc. endig in. the chorus, which we felt the surest of- "Tenting to-night, tenting to-night, Tenting on the old camp-ground . 'How happy we'll be, if we can't get away, Tenting on theold camp-ground." Fred soon. retunetd, with an armful of green corn, and we met him   half way, in spite' of all discipline. WTe felt hungry, and if there was nothing else to dance on a toastin-fork, why, we would execute the green cor: dance.    We enjoyed that roast corn, for we"were weary, and prayed that the war might cease. True, we were just leanihig the art of it under our leader, but somehow we* falied to appreciatethe magnitude and importance of the siege we werethen conducting. We began to growl, and throw out hints of incapacity, and, at length, we openly ridiculed the corporal's strategy.  Corporal Clam felt hurt. At first he unfolded his plans, and thought to show us by them how morally certain he was "of eventtially capturing that mule, and how valuable he would be as a company convenience, to say nothing of the honor and glory attending his capture, and what we might learn of the art of war while doing it. He seemed to be on the point of putting down the   FRED DOUGLASS A! ms I ULES U5 o It O         S.- i-3   ' t.4 CI)     - CI) ti 1.0&OD OH L!J, C1'" t j   1 O  z t% j   96     tite OTO8as s A-D6 dt1 "A. insubordination in tiis way, but probably thinking that it would be a waste of time to explain reasonable things to suich low grades of intellect as composed the rank and file of his army, he put up his plans and drew his bor- rowed sword.  He looked warlike for an instant, but seeing a move on our part that resembled indifference,: he pushed it back into its scabbard again and turned away/to weep. Those tears touched us, and we called a parley "Pshaw! why did I seek glori with poltroons?" he said bitterLy. Gib itupt I in't ghod at coa drums," said Fred. ' "Perhaps you uld like to withdraw that offensive remark," said Strap, cocking his musket, ' Well, yes, I guess I will," replied Clam, losing his grandeur and c6siequence in a moment. "But what do you demand?"  "No more of this strategetical nonsense." Oh, Shades of Blucher iind Casar!" he 'exclaimed, tearing his hair as well as he could under the circum- stances. "I'il bet my head dat I can cotch dat mule," said * red, ehaninig the ijeil:et somewhat. "Go and do it: th:ei" said r "Shall I try Oit, op?" ie asked. "s , repli:id if you sueed you niay ride him into caub 5 I  Dat's me, I'lli iitA," aid b'ed, cutting a pigeon's  wing. "Holdj I am yet commander here," said Clam. "But I am willing-that the contraband shall try it, provided K  .          .   FRtD ithUGLAss AND Ui6S tiE.    27 ie proper military rules area observed. How do you ropose to apptoach him, nigger " T'jProah him wid an er of corn, Cop." "Good," we all shouted, and voted that Fred was a ailitary hero. "Yes," said Clam, slowly, " but t us proceed in mil tary order. A flg of truce!" "A what?'" asked Frrd, 6peiiig his laouth and yes. "Approach the enemy with A flag of truce." "Gosh alniighty, Cop, dat yer mule dohit eat dean hings; he like corn de best.' "That may be; but we are soldiers, learning the art if war, and we must proceed ih regular military order. lere, Strap."  Jack braced up and saluted. "Fasten this white handkerchief to a stick, and ab- ompany your colored biother over to the enemy." "All light," said he, again saluting, and going in search of a flag-staff. In a feW tioments the necessary stick was found, and the handkerchief fastened to it ' Fred provided himself with the largest ear of corn he dould find d an motihedn the breastworks, followed by Strap, who bore aloft the white flag of truce. "Attention!" shouted Clam, mounting the redoubt. Soldiers, you are about starting upon a mission of dan- ger. Remember, your bountry's eyes are upon you. America expects eveiy maii to do his duty. Pivate Strap, to you I entrust the emblem of armistice-. 8ee thatt it is repected. Gaide right! March!"   28     IBED, DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. It was a grand spectacle to see those brave warriors filing, one at a time, over those breastworks and out into the open country, even beyond the range of our mounted guns. It moved the stoutest hearts, and even our battle. scarred leader turned away and dallied around his east eye with the tail of his coat. We mounted the works and watched them, for, of course, all work on our fortification ceased until the return of the flag of truce, Private Jack Strap marched boldly in front with his fluttering' emblem of a stay of proceedings, and such a martial bearing as he had! Oh, dear! how he did just seem to feel his oats! Corporal Clam watched this march through a field. glass. The anxiety on his brow was painful to look upon. Napoleon at the battle of Austerlitz showed no more solicitude, while watching the progress of the Old Guard, as they marched stubbornly forth to turn the tide of events. His breast swelled and heaved, and his cap fell off behind. At length the gallant band neared the mule, who had by this time risen to his feet, and with back-lopped ears stood awaiting developments. Private Strap slowly fell back and allowed Fred Douglass, with his remaining ear and the ear of corn, to go to the front; it was a moment of extreme sensation The corporalPs breath came thick and fast, while Brown --afnrmyself even allowed our pipes to go out, so chained was our attention to the real drama that was being en. acted before our eyes. But Fred was equal to the emergency, brave, adopted   FRED DOUGLASS APND HS MULE. 29   30      FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MVLE I son that he was. Holding the ear of corn well out in advance of him, He approached the mule. He appeared to snuff its lusciousness, and his long ears moved slowly forwsard. Nearer and nearer he shuffled up, the mule also taking a step or two in advance, Fred used the se. ductiveness of his mellifluous voice in co-axing the animal to behave himself and partake of the corn. In a moment of weakness that mule allowed his appe. tite to get the better of his jndgment, and, forgetting past animosities, he accepted the ear of corn. That was the second ear that he had taken from this dusky brother of the south. A cheer 'went up from Fort. Ca, Wm we beheld -the result of the interview. Of rae^ we at once made up our minds-that the war wgs otv; and, turning to our leader, we congratulated ' Qa exactly as the mutinous sail ]ongratlated Colubws after he had won the goal of green immorality, It we econdensed our feelings into "Bully for. Cl ! :'X ad he wept with emotion. In the meantim., Fred Doag  was poving himself a hero, and his race capable; of tiang on liberty. The enemy got on the outside of that juicy ear in less than a minute by the watch, and then he began to smell the darkey over to see if he had any more of them hidden in his clothes. Fred took advantage of this inquisitive dallying and seizedfirmly hold of the bit. "It's all right, mule, you's my prisiner," said he, while a confident grin rippled over his handsome face. The mule looked at him, as much as to say, "I ac- knowledge the corn, but arn't you taking most too many liberties just for one ear?"   FR IDOUGLASS AXSP R A wukt=.  al p ac           " ituai;qu a a Privat  e Jack SJrap. elthe gOyx of thy situation, a king off his cap he. swun it, wildly over his head and heered like a Tammany tiger.       - This Pewa9s toss n Ksh Thor thv A  Of Mr. f ergand- lopping back one ear he sent his heels out A Strap's di- rection so. savagely that it t oo thf he 'r, h right oPt of him, and he instinctively made V rapAd e ef of b se. Thea he turned upo   en his sable , rtog Fist he essayed to eat K1bA but Fded being to, s;rqng, in more than one sense, for the consuWaxion of Mh at beeveleut intention, he suddenly changed his tactics and began to But Fred was evidently in his glory, and master of the situation, holding him with a fim and and teowing a much mulishness-as he did. e backe, a nd thenheat- tempted to rear, n fact, did refr, takinAgFrea off his feet several feet every time. Then he would shoot out his vilainous hoofs to all points of the compass, andbray and use cuss words.   -    - Strap felt that he was not doing his dutytowards his companion m arms although he was obeying orders in protecting the flag of truce. But, being naturally brave, this did not satisfy him, so, he dashed in ad attempted to help subdue-the mule. ,s The attempt, and not the deed: It seemed as though that mulehard as many legs as a Tarantula, for ,the air appeared to be full of legs and whiwzing hoofs. Strap'S bravery was a trifle indiscreet for he fell before the ene my's Are and lay for a moment sprwing: about ia th,. mud; ap though trying to swim out ofreach. Gathering himself up, he retren1e0; he: fe; lad    32     FRED DOUGTLAMS  aD HS MULE. papered with that flag of truce back to the fort, never looking behind, lest his face should be disfigured by those hunks of unconverted glue. ' 'But Fred-Douglass was not made of such Dase mate. rial. He clung: to that fiery and untamed mule. As death clings to a son of Africa, did he cling to the bridle - of that rambunctious animal. Cheer after cheer rent the air around the fort. We felt enthusiastic and safe. We felt that we could see that fight go on for a month with- out losing a grain of our patriotism. But the battle is not always to the white or the game alw ays, to the holder of both bowers. Also, neither guess 'at a cat's jumping qualities by the music produced on its intestines when dried and stretched upon a fiddle. Also, any .other . comparisons that may suggest themselves 'while wrought up to this fearful state of excitement. Well, Fred held on. He was a conqueror. That mule for once found a master, or made believe so. He erected his long ears in token of his unconditional sur- render. -    His works had been moved upon enough, and he accepted the' situation.  To show that he bore no malice, that he Was a foeman worthy of a Tamnmany steal, Fred Douglass threw his arms around the neck of that mule and laughed good. naturedly in his ear. It was .no sardonic laugh, but one that showed how tickled he was at something. '"Dat's, all right, Mr. Mule, I forgive you -for kickin' my ear off las' night. Now you'n I's gwine ter be fust. rate frens, arn't we? An' I'll steal things for yer, an imake myself generally useful."   FRED DOUGLAS AND HS MULE.   33   84     FRED DOUGLASS AD HS MULE. The mule flopped his ears in seeming token of assent. He even looked happy and contented. "Bring him in, Fred!" shouted Corporal Clam. "Guess I'll luff him bring me in," said Fred, patting his captive on the neck.  "Well, report at headquarters, anyway." Fred took the bridle in his left hand, and as he talked in a confident sort of a way to the animal he began to raise his right foot as though on the point of throwing it over on the other side of him. But the mule' was still wide awake, and, instead of Standing still, he made believe he was afraid of that rising flat-boat, and shied away. But Fred .was notfto be fooled H He followed up, and for fully five minutes he hopped around on one leg- in. a circle after ttat retreating brute, while still holding him by the head with an iron grip. So far as we were con. cerned, we began to see fun in the -thing, and Brown sig-. gested to the corporal that it would be a ggod -idea to throw up a breastwork on the opposite side "o that mule, to iop his traveling Sideways. Corporal Clam frowned a haughty frown and simply said.: "That is not recogniied as one of the arts of war." Then we subsided, and thought how great was our leader. But to return to our prancing heroes. The Douglass was not to be dared in his hall, so to speak. H had conquered once, and he was bound to finish the job or die in a ditch, so to speak again. So he sprung a mine of genius on that sidewise mule.  Darting under his neck, he came unexpectedly upon his other fnk, and not only flanked him, but mounted    FRED DOUGLAS4S AN) HS MUIE.    35 him by one tremendous leap, seating himself squarely astride of the astonished artimal. Then another ch'eer went up from his companions in arms, who stood ready to acknowledge that the black race were worthy of their liberty. We felt proud-of our re, christening, and urged him to ride in. Fred coaxed and kicked, but the mule would not budge. In fact, the only thing he would do was to kick and bray. Then the darkey boxed his ears, and envied him because he had two to box. Then the mule got indignant and began to-get his back up-" toqhump hisself,'" as Fred called it. An. exhi. bition of " bueking" was next in order. ^ Up would go his back, and up would go Fred Douglass a yard or more. But he managed to alight again astride of his enemy; and so, after bouncing him up for about five minutes, he toned down and became as passive as a sick cat. He had evi- dently expended all his resources and exhausted all his strategy. Fred rode that mule into the fort, and we all admired him, at a distance. Strap looked as though he had been through a thrashing-machine, and only those whose strat. egy had kept them at long range looked much like their former selves. But it was a moment of triumph for our sable friend, and he felt it so deeply that he called us all a lot of cowardly mudsills, and we "took water." We would have taken something stronger if it tha been within reach.  Corporal Clam did not swell with pride much, ift a but he at once took out his book ndt began to take a account of the capture, recognizing this As one of the rule  , j .    86     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MOlE. of warfare. Estimating the animal at seventy-five dollars, he next began to figure up the cost of capturing him. Finding that this item amounted to at least one hundred dollars, he subtracted one sum from the other and made the United States out a debtor to his company in the sum of twenty-five dollars and its share of the glory. But while he stood deliberating thus, there came an alarm  . The enemy were upon us! Quick as meditation, or t1ie thoughts of grub, did Corporal Clam comprehend the situation. He ordered his men into-the trenches, with muskets ,trailed in the .direction of the approaching enemy.            - Said enemy consisted of a company of Union soldiers, the officer of the guard leading in the men who had been relieved. All this while iorporal Clam had heroically imnagined. that he was outside of the Union lines, but this returning guard showed that we were, in fact, a long distance within them. 'But'where ignorance was bliss, it was not warlike to be wise; so he encouraged his men to lay low and wait until they saw the eyeballs of the ap. preaching enemy.  Fred Douglass dismounted from his mule, and by some mesmeric science of his own made the animal lay down behind the breastworks; but he could not {rail his musket, for he had his hands full in trailing his mule. "Courage, men!" said Clam, every two minutes or so, and we were inclined to take it, since the soldiers who wereapproaching up the road looked tired and sleepy, very much like a relieved guard; O?,?n':they came, until we became convinced that they friends instead of enemies. Corporal Clam shed   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.     37  38     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. tears because a new glory had been wrested from him by the fates of war, the glory of capturing a band of rebels. We wishe4,very much to hail our companions, but Clam would not permit it; for Aie' was jealous lest they should claim a part of the gliy jthat we had got for our- selves. Jealousy is a residenti in the breasts of all great men. So that relieved guard marched slowly past .us and on toward the camp., When they were :out of sight we again rose to our feet and .spok: the: dust from our uni- forms. The next thing to do was: t get the mule up and make him-do likewise. This was no easy task. He had got a good soft bed in theidirt, and he felt like seeing us experiment on him-a whilebefore he left it. We charged bayonets o himn. We kicked holes in our army shoes in urging hihm to get up in fact, we re- sorted to every argument 'wewere in possession of, but all to no purpose, Finally, orporal Clam came to .the res- cue with the science of war, anIe ;e iend about a dozen cartridges and put the powde iA ie which we made under him. A little fi,  ioslmixed with the powder, raised that baulkym . It raised him suddenly; it also raised sable Fred, wh:ciung to: the-bridle like a patriot office-holder to his the "i sitt,'a n.- the first land- ing they made was on the outsideof the fort, both on their legs, however.  That mule seemed unhappy, and even Fred looked a ,trife fuUrried; yet he did not lose his presence. of mind, :land mounted the beast before he had time to collect .his 3 milishness. But he had seen enough of actual war, and   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.    39 by following hnm closely with our fixed bayonets, we managed to urge him along ahead of us into camp. That entry into camp was something of a triumph.. It was a sight to see Corporal Clam marching in advance, closely followed by the mule and his sable rider. It was a funny sight, and such a laugh' as it raised made every- body in camp leap to their feet and assume ; gin. The fact of our capturing a mule for the benefit of the company was enoughto make heroes of us all, but when our leader made a detailed report of the siege and every-  thing relating to the capture,' it made him a hero of the second'water. He was toasted, complimented, and shook hands with by nearly everybody in camp; and not only that, a few very effective speeches were made, prophesying that our long 'corporal: would in time be- come as much of a hero as did the "Little Corporal" of France. . ,  The remainder of the day was passed in'jollity and good cheer, for other foraging parties had managed to ob- tain grub that entailed but little discount beyond hide, hoofs, and horns, and this made everybody happy. One expedition, under Captain Collin, had captured a bull that made us many a luscious stew, and kept him in a " stew" long after the war was over and he had returned to pri. vate life. Doubtless, many of his comrades still remem- ber Hofnman's bull. Night came, and with it camp discipline and songs. Talk about your operas and glee clubs! There was more real music developed in our regiment than the Academy of Music in New York ever turned out in the world. One song, sung by Johnny Farmer, with regimentalso.     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.   FRED DOUOrASS ANP   HS MULE        4M re the words of, and many a veteran will aber the tune. A SOAiDIER'S LIFE A soldier's life is fill of fun, -Co-wizzie co-we,  He eats his "tack " and scours his gun, Co-wizzie, co-wizzie, co-wizzie co-we. Let her rip, rip, rip, Let her zip, zip, zip, Who the devil is afraid of a-skirmish? II. We tell our yarns and sing our songs,              ? Co-wizzie co-we,  Stow our forage where it belongs-;- Co-wizzie, co-wizzie, co-wizzie co-we. &7 Let her hip, hip, hip,  Let her skip, skip, skip, Who the devil is afraid of a skirmish? *in .       .    *  \   ' Though we dislike the dusty tramp,". Co-wizzie co-we.  Hil We dearly love the life in camp,'  Co-wizzie co-wizzie, co-wizzie co-we.             f Let 'emr growl, growl, growl, 'We'll I owl, howl, howl,.  Who the devil is afraid of a skirmish?,  iar effect of this song can only be realized  have heard it.  There was another that used, is,pto enchant everybody who took part in            :i, "ng of those who listened.  ,' '.'   42       FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. THE THREE    BAD  BOYS. I. A story Ive been told Of fotu good& brothers bold; But three of the four were turned out of door t Because they would not sing. CHORus.-But three of the four were turned out of door, Because they would no;t sing. II. One of them was a lawyer, One of them was a sawyer, And one of them was a soldier boy, R Three jolly dogstogether.  CHo.-And-one of them was a soldier boy, Three jolly dogs together. "I. But the lawyer he stole cash, And the sawyer lived too flashy And the soldier boy pale he turned his tail, ) ;        To keep away from harm.       R CHo.-And the soldier boy pale he turned his tail, To keep away from harmi. IV. But the lawyer was hung for the cash,  And the sawyer "'went up" with his flash. And the devil ran away with the soldier boy And promised to keep him warm,  CHo.-And the devil ran away with the soldier boy And promised to keep him warm. Well, well, it isn't everybody who 'an write history and put in all the totches .   FRED DbUGLASS AND HS MULE.     43 - .  i *. A,, o ,l: 1                 I E  *- ,                *    "     FRED DOUGT ASS AND HS MULE. The next day we were only ordinary soldiers again. Our glory was merged and blended into the regiment's to such :,a degree that it made Corporal Clam sick, and he had to, be taken to the hospital for repairs. 'He expect- ed promotion, at least, but he did not even receive hon- orable mention, and to see all his genius thus lost sight of, like a drop in a bucket,;: 'was more' than:his! sensitive, expectant heart could stand ithont getting sick. The rest of us didn't'. mind'it' so; much, hnot :having so large an amount of genius; and so Fred remained master of the ,mule, lnuch to his satisfaction, fort the animal showed more than ordinary love and 'admiration for him. A few days after he had been adopted as acompany mule, the. wagon master ordered Fred to:take him to a blacksmith, about a mile from the camp, and get him shod.  Fred' walked out to the deserted barn, where the mule had' been quartered, and proceeded to investigate the understandings of'his pet., Taking up oneof his hind legs, he :ook its barefooted condition into consideras tion. The mule appeared not to have entirely recovered from his sensitiveness and dislike to familiarity on the part of outsiders. So he lopped back his left ear and sent out hi ,ght hind leg.,- This back-action movement was a asuccess. it mo- mentarily severed the relations friendly and otherwise, existing between the ;man andjhe beast ad, Fred de. scribed -a graceful circle,- *fter doing whichhe landed against the far side of the barn, very much in the con-. dition of an exploded foothall.    FRED DoUGLASS AND HS MULE.     4fi ot iG O : , ,!  X           i   ;   "     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. Now some people would have proceeded to get mad as blazes about a thing of this kind, but Fred gathered himself up, tried- his bellows, and finding them still in fair working order, he proceeded to smile, and then to give- his friend a few ears of corn that he had laid by for just such an emergency as this. Diplomacy and knowledge of mule-nature triumphed. Then he mounted and rode out before "the boys," who hailed him with three and a tiger.; Fred recog- nized himself as a hero ,nd braced himself up an angle or two straighter. Corporal Clam heard the wild huzza, and learning that it was in honor of "an ordinary nig. ger," one whom his genius had made, his proud heart sunk within him And he took another bilious pill. History, to be penetrating, should contain all of these little points.  "The boys" felt, proud of Fred, almost as much so as they did of theii uuUe; for, on listening to the story of his capture, they 'sawonly onie hero, and that was the darkey. Many a laigh was indulged, in over the story of that siege and capture, and at last it was voted that when Corporal Clam was able to leave the hospital they would give him a reception. And they did. The "vets of the 91st N. Y. remember it. But to rush on and catch ups with Fred Douglass and his mule. They were well on the roadbv this time, and going at a respectable jog, for the beast semed to scent fun in the air, or he was tickled at the thought 9f getting \ a new set of shoes-it is not known which, for the mule was never closely questioned on the subject. The blacksmith's shop was situated about a mile from   FULD4 LO)LJ4LM Ad) HS MtULE 47 O ri  "I ;21- r    AA-y    48     FaED DOUGLASS AND H1S MULE. the camp, a little shanty affair, the proprietor of which had no politics in particular, and the ,only expression of opinion that he indulged in was, that hewas glad that something had turned up to make business better. Our own regimental blaaksnith had not got arranged yet, and was only enabled to do the repairing to the baggage and cpommissary wagons, and therefore the fat old smithy whom the Colonel had introduced within our lines had all the shoeing he could attend to, and thanked heaven that his dish was right side up when it rained'porridge. Fred pointed his charger for the shop of the man who 'was a charger against Uncle Sam. He had a few good- natured adventures on the road, one of which deserves a place in history. He met a Johnny with a load of water- melons, going into camp to sell The mule appeared to like watermelons, and the moment he came up alongside of the cart he opened his huge mouth and lifted one of them from its place. . This somehow displeased the owner, and he remon- strated by giving Fred' a cut over the head with his urg- ing-stick . He also called him a cussed nigger. The mule was in for fun, if his rider wasi not, and he just backed up and began to kick the watermelon mule, while Fred and the driver thereof embraced in a very loving way and rolled together in the dirt.; But the battle was soon over. The driver cried enough, and his mule lay down in the shafts, while Fred's animal made an onslaught upon the melons.; Fred mounted and began to whollop him, but he h-l evidently made up his r mind to have a square meal, and he could not be 'choked. off until he had put six or eight of them out of sight.   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.     49 The amount of cuss words used on that, occasion was enough for a whole campaign; but, finally, the melon man got away, and Fred headed his mule for the blacksmith's again, towards which he went at a renewed rate of speed. Arriving at the shop door he dismounted, and taking his coipanion by the bridle, he entered the shop, where '7 '- FRED DOUGIASS, AS. HE APPEARED ON THE ROAD. the fat old smithy was hammering away for bread and cheese and kisses, perhaps-at all events he was at work "Am dis yer de bracksmith's shop?" asked Fred. "Does it look -like /acotton-gin " asked the smith, without, looking up..    50     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. "Who sent you here?" De wagon- master up at de camp." "Oh, that's all right. Lead him in." Fred did as requested, and then both mule and shoei look a look at each other. "Whose nigger be you?" he asked, turning to Fred. "I belongs ter company 'H' up heah." "What, captured?" "Yes, dey said I was contraband of war, an' dey took me in, an I'se free now." "Whose nigger was you before that?" "Massa Hoffman's, up heah, 'bout ten miles." "Yes, I know him. Where did yoqlget this mule?" "We captured him from Boss Clements." "Ah, I thought I knew that mule. The old man has pulled stakes, I suppose?"  Yaas, he's clean, gone." "Everybody seems to be doing that now. These are dreadful times. But Mr. Clements was a nice old man. Little cracked I allus thought," and here he commenced to laugh and shake his round fat body as though some- thing very funny was at work within him. Fred laughed from pure sympathy, and even the mule opened his mouth and looked good-natured. Bring your mule around here." This required but little skill to do, and after Mr. Tongs had finished the shoe he was at work upon, he stood erect and wiped the dew of toil from his brow and blew his elongated nose. 4 "Yes, old Clements was cracked badly," said he, re- suming the thread of his narrative. ,1 ,   FRED DOUGTrASS AND HS MUL... LZ!j t- O M r           a.   52     FRED DOUGTAS AND HS MULE. "Who crack him boss t " asked Fred, with open eyes, for this simple child of the regiment as yet had learned but little regarding the figures of educated speech. "Why, got cracked himself, simpleton." "Oh, he was a simpleton, eh?" "Bah! What size shoes does that mule wear " "Fours, boss," said Fred, grinning. "What Fours! What do you mean? "Four shoes, don't he, boss?" "Pretty good, nigger, pretty good! Well, as I was saying," he continued, while looking for a set of mule shoes," the old man was cracked-crazy like. See?" Fred jerked his head affirmatively and did the best he could to be a good listener, but it was evidently no pleasure for the old fellow to talk with him, and had he not been as lonesome as a borrowed pup he would have scorned to have wasted breath upon him. Tongs had been a schoolmaster once, and he didn't care much for conversing with black trash, and only did so under a pres. sure of circumstances like the present. "Yes, he used to bother the life out of me once But he war a nice old man." "Boddered you bein' a nice ole man, boss "tasked Fred, innocently. "Nonsense!" " "Oh I wid his. nonsense 2?" "Well, pretty nearly that. He war a right fiery old secessionist, though," he added, throwing a shoe out of the pile of scrap4 he was pulling over. "Dat war nonsense, suah," "Whoi's talking, you or me?" '* ' ,   fc * i "   .-   FRED DOUGLASS AN) HS MULE.    53 "Who's shoein' dis yer mule? Dat's what rd like ter know," replied Fred, getting tired of his chin-music. "Now, look here, nigger, if yer don't want that mule shod my way, you jes' git up and caper," he said, turning upon Fred with a frown that extended to the end of his nose. "Well, go on wid yer hammering, Mr. Tongs. Tell yer story," he replied, with great resignation. "Of course I shall; who'll hinder? But you are a pretty likely nigger, an' I don't mind talkin' with you. I'll tell you somethin' 'bout old Clements that'll make you split the top of your head off laughin'." "Ya, ya, ya! Go in ole man.' Don't car much for de top of my head anyway. Ain't had a good laugh since Christmas. Golly! arn't I glad I come!" Then they both laughed, and the mule flopped his long ears in silent sympathy. "Well, the old man used to be smart in his younger days, and kept his head level until he went ter Congress. That upset him somewhat, and after failin' ter get 'lected again he had the softening of the scalp. He came can- tering down here one day and said he was a mule and wanted to be shod. 'Nothing would do but I must nail a pair of mule shoes on the bottom of his boots, and I did." "Did he kick?" "No, gentle as a sheep." "Den he wasn't no mule." "Does this mule kick?" he asked, stopping short. "Gently, boss, gently," replied Fred.   54     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. "That's all right. A mule never kicks me. Never kicks anybody of superior intellect." "All right, boss. But I don't b'lieve a bushel ob brains would save you." "Pshaw! You don't know me. But, as I was saying, old Clements used to bother me to death. One of the strangest things he ever done was to drive a cow down here one day. It was a nice enough cow, only she wouldn't come down with her milk. Lord bless you, I knew the cow well enough. He bought her of Dick Gwynn, up in Washington county. Ever hear tell on the Gwynn's? Nice people. I used to teach school up there once. Came down from Massachusetts purpose ter teach school, but it didn't 'gree with me over much an' I went to blacksmithin'. Allus took ter blacksaithin', like a pig takes ter mud. Family all blacksmiths before me, and father allus said I wasn't cut out for a schoolmaster." Here he approached the mule, who turned on him a look of malicious inquiry. "Whoa! He! ha!" he said soothingly, while Fred stood grinning by his head. "Make him look the other way. I want to see if these shoes are large enough," he continued, hesitatingly. Fred boxed his long ears and told him to look straight ahead. "Arn't 'fraid, am you, boss?" "No, of course not. Never saw a mule I could not subdue in my life. But this fellow looks to be uncom- mon ugly. Guess I'll have ter physocologize him." "What?" asked Fred, opening his eyes at the heavi. est word he ever heard uttered.   FRED DOUGLASS AND. HS MULE.    55 "Phy-pronounced Si-col-o-gize." "Now look a heah, Mr. Tongs, I was sent heah ter get dis yer mule shod. He's a right likely mule an der comp'ny won't stan' no foolin' wid him." "But I wish to subdue him with my animal magnet- ism, to bring him down with my superior will-pqwer." "All right, boss, if you can do it; but look out for his heels." Watch me; I often subdue vicious brutes this way. Toned a mad bull down once in five minutes." Mr. Tongs had lots of dignity and magnetism, and nothing pleased him better than to work either one or the other. Taking the bridle from Fred, who retired in silent awe, he placed one hand on either side of the bit and proceeded to look the mule steadily in the eye for the space of about five minutes, during which the animal closed his eyes and lopped his ears in a very Sleepy way, and appeared to be fast getting under the "influence." Even Fred began to believe that Tongs was a charmer. "There! See?" "Got him asleep?" "Certainly. We shall have no further trouble with him now. Just take hold of his halter while I look at his hoofs," said he, with much confidence. "All right, boss." Tongs went to his forge for something, and again re- sumed his story about Mr. Clements. "As I was tellin' ye, I knew that cow of his first-rate. Good cow enough, if you only understood her. Dick Gwynn never had any trouble with her, and Dickis one of the most particularest men you ever did see. He's   -56    FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. gone into the Southern army now, and he'll make his mark, as I said to Tom Clips the other day. Tom was down here and we were talking about Dick. Whoa! ha! he!" he added, again approaching the mule's hind leg. That mesmerized animal suddenly recovered from his trance fid again turned and gave Tongs a wicked look, as much as to say, "I'm looking at you, old man." "Ya! ya! ya! he's got all ober yer'collogy," said Fred, laughing enough to split. Mr. Tongs looked a little disappointed, and said some- thing about not charging him enough. "Got to charge it to de regiment, boss." "Nonsense; what do you know about animal sci- ence?" he asked, again taking the mule by the head. "I know heaps bout 'mulishness, though." The learned blacksmith again fastened his magnetic eyes upon the mule's sleepy ones and charged him over again, after which he gave his head to Fred to hold. "Now let me get my tools. Well, old Clements he couldn't get along with that cow nohow, and so one day he brought her down to my shop. Whoa, now! hist!" he said, cautiously approaching the, mule again, for the purpose of getting possession of his off hind leg. The magnetism and biology worked this time. But it worked the wrong way; it had a back-action effect on the mule, so to speak. It worked out through the hind legs and Tongs was there to see it. He was in a stooping posture, almost on all fours, cautiously approaching the mule, when, quick as a wheel- barrow struck by lightning, out went those magnetically- worked heels. Tongs escaped by the skin of his scalp-- ,.   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS NULE.-      5T   *58     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. just about that, for so near did one of the rascal's heels come to his bump of veneration that it actually went through his paper cap, leaving it strung upon his leg nearly up to his hauck. "Whoa! whoa! he, ha!" yelled Fred, pulling him by the ear, for, getting a glimpse of Tongs' hat on the mule's leg, the idea seized him that his head had been kicked off.  Gracious golly, boss, am dat yer head?" "No, but it's the next thing to it," said Tongs, faintly, at the same time retreating to a distant corner of the shop. "The vicious d4il." "Didn't got him berry sleepy, did yer, boss?" said Fred, laughing, and boxing the mule's ears because he did not laugh too. "Who yer laughin' at? I say, nigger, I never swar, trm an awful determined hoss, and I'm goin' to shoe that vilish mule if it takes all summer," and he swag- e'd?aro the shop like a man resolved on bombastic ctory. (  "Now I an tole yer how ter fool dis yer mule. I nows all 'bo t mules, i does, boss," said Fred, partaking of the blacks ith's swagger. a"' a ,/possible that you know much anyhow, it * arn't in nater of black boys." "Wal, I wouldn't done gone an try ter boligize him; I jis' fool him." "Wal, go ahead and let's see yer science." /"Go on wid yer shoes, I'm ready." "But I want ter ry them on and see if they fit 'fore I can do anything."   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.    59 "All right," replied Fred,-taking up a large tub, or the, half of a barrel, that stood in one corner of the shop. "What's that for?" "Jes you watch dis yer chile,'" he continued, plac- ing the tub over the head of the mule, "Now go in, ole boss, I'se got him, suah." "Will he keep quiet?"  "I'se got him, ole man; go in." Cautiously, as before, he approached the subject of his anxiety, and, greatly to his surprise, he allowed him to take up his foot and work around it without an opposing strug- gle. Fred felt his triumph full as much as he di- over the original capture of the animal, and as Tongs gradually settled down to work he forgot his biological failure and again resumed his story about Clements. "As I was saying 'bout Clements. - You see the old man got a notion of dreaming strange dreams 'bout that cow. You know strange dreams are spoken of in Scripter. Do you know anything'bout Scripter "      " "Never knowed him, boss." "What! You are an ignorant cuss, anyway. Wal, he got ter dreaming 'bout that cow. It worked on his mind right smart, aDd so he brought her down ter my shop one day. Whoa! he! stand still, you mouse colored devil!" he said, yelling to the mule. "Guess he's lookin' round dis yer tub for oats," sug- gested Fred, with a wise but comical grin. "Wal, thp old man had heaps of queer notions 'bout that cow. His son Tom-did you ever hear tell of Tom a Everybody knew Tom Clements-used to be awful wild chap. Went to college and got graduated in one   60  A  FBED DOUO ASS AND HS MULE. week, cos he was so smart. Wal, Tom he said as how the old man was a fool, an' tried ter get his ideas ter runnin' on this very mule, just for a change. But he couldn't get that yer cow out of his head, an' so at last he druv her-down ter my shop.-Hey! ho! hell! Hit him! kill the cuss!" These pious exclamations were from the mouth of Mr. Tongs-made because a portion of his person was in : the mouth of the mule. It happened in this way: Fred i  got careless, and, while looking at a dog-fight before the " door, he relaxed his tub-attentions and allowed the mule to swing his head around and nip the blacksmith's stern reaityp- Fred, whose whole soul was with the undermost dog in the fight, and supposing that Tongs was urging him to interfere in behalf of said dog, dropped his blindfold and rushed upon the dogs, leaving the poor smith and the mule to fight it out between themselves. "Call off the mule!" yelled Tongs. Der mule got nuffin ter do wid it." "Haint he though? Kill the cuss!" "Bress de Lord! whoa! whe hu!" said the honest darkey, rushing to the blacksmith's rescue and whacking the mule over the head-a style of caressing that instant- ly turned his attention. "Cuss that mule!" whined Tongs, rubbing his affect" ed person vigorously; "I've a mind to kill him where he stands," and, to show about what his feelings were, he seized a hammer and made a dash at his head. In an instant the mule was on his guard, and a   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. 61 rj O-.3 ri IlK, O3 2' O   82     FRED DOUGLASS AND His MULE. threatening pair of heels caused the blacksmith to change his mind.      Fred interfered as peacemaker, as he had don with the dogs, and after a little judicious coaxing and fattery, he got the mule in place again and once more under the magnetic influence ofthe tub. Tongs rubbed himself awhile longer, ad, after using all the cuss words he knew,'he once more bent down to his work. A    I soon as' he got his' passions subdued he resumed hls ao. about C1-  -,  ':   - resumed hisory bout Clementscow. Fred listened, but he couldn't get the grin offhis face regarding Tongs' mishap.     .   ' "Wal, I've had many a good, laugh over that cow affair. You see' the-old man had adarter. She-was an old maid, although: he hid-plent of chances to get mar- ried. There war Colonel T bai  he went for her right narp; but she Sorter turned .iphaer nose at him, on account of his scarcity of money. But the colonel would have been a good catch, and half the girls in- the county ar a teeterin' to hi. o Got married arter that ter PhilOpenySmith.   she "War homely as -l lgit out, but she had stuff in the bank.",  "Am die yer part ob dat cow story?" mildly sug. ,ested Fred, who Aws somehow getting led away into a ;ort of a labyrinth of arration. "Wal, maybe not; but I'm tellin} this yer story my- ,wn way, boy. I allus has m own way with every hing, not excepting mules. That's what I told old nan Clements when he tried ter argue with me 'bout hat cow. Yg see, that cow kinder went back on her lilk, and the old man, took her in hand ter see if he   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.     63 couldn't put a stop to her foolin'. Understand, the old man was daft cos, he didn't get sent back ter Congress. Yes, these ere politics make heaps of fools besidescrazy 'uns.  Whoa--up-up-he!" he said, taking up another leg of his subject and trying to fit a shoe to the end of it. Then he -went to his forge and began to blow at the bellows, all the while entertaining Fred with his story about that cow. Wal, the old man he, thought as how he could fix his critter in a new way., He war allus gettin' queer notions inter his head. That's why'they didn't send him back ter Congress. Bill Dauit told me so.' You know Bill ? Bill knows more bout politics than that are mule knows 'bout cussedness. I war teachin? school at the time, an' Bill he coined over ter tell me that I mustn't vote for him.   Whoa I muley, whoa!" he said, again approaching the other Cubject h  had in hand. He had a hot shoe that he wished to fit on the hoof, but he kept right along with his story.   Wal, the old man took that cow one morning, and started with her to my shop-- Ough!" "Wha am der matter, boss? " asked Fred. " Gol dang this yer beast, hes tryin' ter tread on my feet. Never seed so much nateral cussedness standin' on four legs in my life," replied Tongs, givrig the mule a rap on the flanks with his hoof-file.  'He don't stan' on his fore legs, boss." ' I should think you did, by the way you'talk." " By golly, you's der funnfest man I ebber met. Bully on der joke, arn't yer? Go on wid der 'hawln     I arnt had so much fun since Christmas."     "     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. "The company will have heaps of trouble with him yet." "Guess dey'll hab heaps o' fun." If ever he gets loose with them legs, he'll kill the whole regiment." ' Well, dat's good." ' Good? What do you mean, boy?" ;   "Save lots of powder by dat yer mule." "Pretty good, boy, pretty good.' You must have had a pretty good bringing up." "Why so, boss?"      , "C'us you a very fair joker. Guess Boss Hoffman 'tended te yer eddercation pretty smart." "He wEr a nice ole man, suah only he made b'lieve he war a good Union man, so he could get damages for what de Yanks gobbled up." "Ah, but that is only a weakness of the flesh, not of spirit-not of the spirit." "No, he allus took his spirits strong." "Oh! oh! whoa! keep his head covered." "All right, boss. Whoa, whe, muly," and the good- natured dark endeavored to impart some of his own feelings to the uneasy animal.          , "Whoa! You devil above ground!" The mule didn't appear to care much for compliments, but he was fast losing his patience. Guess he are gettin' uneasy on 'count ob dat story,' suggested Fred.  "Wal, maybe he is. As I war sayin, ole Clements war chuck full of crotchety notions an' things. His darter, 'the one I war speakin' 'bout, she said as how thar war   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. 65 I Lo I              S s V 'WX ]lr UssM .   88 1     i REDP DOlbtA^SW E2D 1HS MULE. nothin' the matter with the ole man, only worms. Only worms I Just think of that!" Fred threw back his head and laughed, while the mule partook -of his emotions and flopped. his long ears against the sides of the tub. Now that shows you what kind o a igall he was, an' I've often said as ho oa. a tybwlC: :;:alucky 'scape from her. Yes, she 'said ai-: aif: nthin' the matter with her old dad, only wo is an' she went ter docterin' him for 'em, ai ikdt-ei itiJ 'aftor!sgive it up. But the ole eli :ted iis   . Whole mind n that thar 'balky cow. :   jk i out d ure her, an' at last I told hinmter bring. h;ii it er the shop, an' I'd try. So, as I war tellin onytup one hot mornin' in August and started wi  . Shie:ut. up EIke, Sam Hill, an' just afore he goteiri       -" .Ough! * .  Here was; aottferinterruption  to that cow-story. The mule objected f Aving a red-hot shoe placed upon his foot, and'he manifested those objections in the usual way, that is to say, he-k ed. He kicked hard, and striking Mr. Tongs i f t: pit of his stomach, he landed him up against the side of the shop, while Fred vanished through the openf dor.  "Ough! oh! acuss thatittme! Diamn that mule. I'l murderhi  o1- i he groaned faintly,:as he gathered "Am der ire out, boss?" asked 'red, looking in at the door, "Yes-an'--an' my wind also. Cuss that mule! I shall lose money on him, if I don't lose my life." "Wha-wha you burn him for "   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.     67 ^Why, to fit the shoe, of course. Cuss him, he's the worst kicker I' ever saw. How hi thunder am I to fix him? ' "I gib it up, boss guess; yer better fix yerself fust," said the darkey, cautiously approaching the belligerent quadruped, who was still dancing in anger. "Whoa! cuss ye, I have half a mind to kill you," growled Tongs, still keeping at a respeetful distanqe from the enemy. "Better not fool wid him, boss."' "I know what I'll do, I'll put myself in armor. I have it!" and; straightening up at the dawn of a brilliant idea, he rushed out the back door of his shop, and presently returned with a large whisky-barrel. "I never give up to brute force, and, if I cannot rule by strength, I will do so by mental superiority." "What's dat, boss?" ' "Why, strategem, boy, strategem."  "Yah! yah! yah!" bellowed Fred; " dat's what war de matter wid Cop'ral Clam. He tried ter cotch dis yer mule by dat kind of stuff, blt he couldn't ao it. I cotched him wid a year ob corn," and again he laughed. "Never you fear, I know what I am 'bout,' said: the learned blacksmith, boring a hole in the head of the barrel.  Fred and the mule both watch ed him with much curiosity, as he proceeded to-make a hole in the head of the barrel, large enough t admit his own head, and also a hole on each side, large ehouhgh to receive his Aimas After smoothing these orifice out -a bit, he proceeded to get into that barrel, to protrude lis head asdd arms   68      FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. through the openings, allowing the weight of the barrel to rest on his shoulders-the whole forming a complete, though somewhat clumsy armor for the protection of everything but his extremities. " Now, boy, this reminds me of another story." "Can't run two, stories at a time, can yer, boss " "Yes, a dozen; I'm a genius, I am. Ought ter have taken, ter literature when I war young, only blacksmithin' cum so kinder natural like. But this story are a good one, an' comes in here fustrate. I'll tell the other afore I get through. I seed it somewhar, but that arn't ter say but that it's just as good as though I had the fust tellin' on it.,      - ' ' When the- war fust bioke out, some officers under General Lyon, thought as how they'd do a big thing by way of mountain howitzers; so thgy got a mule an' lashed a howitzer ter his back, intendin' to raise Cain with the Missouri rebels, who war bushwhackin' in the mountains. They] loaded- the gun with a good charge of canister, and after sight in the camp of the rebs, they turned the mule aro;,nd and aimed him. Then they fixed a slow-match ter the gun and started back ter see the result. They war standin' on a plateau up among:,the hills, and felt that they war goin' ter do a big thing. The gun war pointed towards the mule's tail. But as soon as that thar slow-match' began ter burn an' fizzle the. mule looked around ter see what the matter was, Then: :began ter turn around, then the gun pointed at the Yanks, an' they began ter turn round an' scatter. Such a getting up an',gittin' war never seen -afore. They bolted in all directions, gettin' behind     'RED DOUGLASS AD HS MULE.       69  cintinered ter go round an' round, tryin' ter see what that tharin all meant. Just then the howitzer went off, an Ati*i .  :k e :urned a sumersault over the edge of pa preee.  'iwentFdustin',along down through the budshe a'-:er- . sTh:tlr 'speriment war a bad failure." He: stopped and lookedup at Fied, as much as to ask why he. didnt laugh.:  utFred only laughed at what he saw enacted before his eyes.  "I's 'fi)d dyisyer one wth be a failure too, boss." "INonsense', saidTongs, getting into his armor. "You'rve o it one iaiii jn', boy.'" "What's; dt, bs? "You laug a,'t your^' wn stories, 'but you look as solemn 'as an - lniybody oelse  tells a good one," said Tongs,-in .a'i':   ' .: . '  , ' "Wha a.-h wha:i-m ,da- story ' done:'" he asked innocent'ly,..;'          ' i- *"O:C;.iu  ,it^  s .-see it' war thrown away on you. .'":-NowT 'm ready," he said, approaching the mule. "Ya; ', :ya ! By golly, 'dat yer am de' wufst I ebber seed. in my life. ;H, ho, ho!"' and .the darkey manifested his tickle arity by standing on his head and slapping various portions of his anatomy.  "Stop your laughing, nigger. This is a Yankee in. vention, and it shows the superiority of Northern people; it is ev i4          n eno o hern althoug my sym. "pathido ,es . nare I , witthe y, say , bo,^ which side do you -gotor?" "Boff sides, boss. Don't care a cuss which licks." "Wal, then, my sympathies are with the South."   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.     71 "Oh, by golly, see the mule look at yer! Ho, ho, ho!" "Yes, he recognizes my mental superiority." The animal in question looked as though he recog. nized something out of the usual order of things, for he lopped back one ear and brought himself about so that his stern guns bore upon the animnaated whisky-cask, and began to dance up and down as though eager for the fray. "Hoi, ho, he, muley!" said Fred soothingly. "Ioi, yer cussed varmint, stand around there!" "Look out for dem heels, boss." "I'll risk him now. Whoa! I'll shoe you, or die in the attempt--whoa! Stand around!" He attempted'to enforce his orders, but it was some- thing less in the way of a complete 'success than he had evidently anticipated, for again those awful heels flewup and hit the blacksmith's armor, making it give forth a hollow sound that harmonized tunefully with the grunt emitted by its occupant. However, it was not a fair blow and the mule appeared to feel discouraged at the result. - While in this mood Mr. Tongs again seized his hind leg, and began nailing on a shoe. It was an arkward performance, though, as may well be supposed; but for .a few moments the mule was as gentle as a nursing pig, and was evidently nonplussed by the..smith's strategy. But he kept at work, proudly feeing -how great was the triumph of mind over matter, of intellect over the beasts that perish. So he resumed his story. "Wal, as I war saying 'bout old .Clements and ,his cow-the old man got an idea into his head that he   72     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. could make her give milk again. It war a right fine cow, anay anyway an give cream an inch thick with her milk; so it Warn't anything but natral that he should want ter get her agoi' agin. 'Yes sir,boy, that yer cow did give nice milk-whoa!"' he yelled, as the mule began to be restive again. "I'll have ter fxl this shoe a bit," and he went to his forge to do it, and there continued his story. "Wal, one morning he started ter drive her down to my shop. She war drefful balky-like, and, as the old man was rather lame, she made it right lively for him, I ken tell yer. She ran fust one way and then another, jumped over fences, and ran through fields, all the while druling at the mouth and' bellowing as though she war lonesome like. But, lord bless you, boy, how the old man did run andcuss!' 'He allus did have a right smart lot of cuss-words handy, but on this 'casion he astonished everybody within hearin'. But at 'last he got her into the road again, .and headed her formy shop. Whoa! Stand around, you long-eared devil!" he said, as he again approached the restive mule with a hot shoe. Past triumphs made the blacksmith bold, and so he be- ,came less cautious of his approaches; but the mule profited by his assurance, and, watching for a good opportunity for a further test of the impregnability of that armor, he sighted-an opening athis cheese-box, and sent in both heel,. hissing hot, striking the barrel about middle way, and lifting it and its occupant bodily from the floor and landing them upon the fire ii' the forge, while Fred ducked for safety, and subsequently made his exit from the cellar, where he had gone for protection, by crawling out of a hole iithe- wall.   FED DOUGOTAS AND HS MULE. 73    74     FEED DOXTGA8S SAD HS MULE. In the meantime, poor Tongs lay upon the fire in a very uncomfortable position, and, what made it still more so, the whiskysoaked barrel took fire and began to burn like erosen e.  '  T' g Tobgs o:edforielp, and 'Je' yelled fire, while the milecnued to wPb   atu fr, om point to point, and throw out 1    i a v ery mening way. "Help, 'ni'gg :i  " i a   -'get out of the fire," shouted Tongs, ' whog. '     wee swinging and sweeping about in:vi':end:eavors raise is body. But Fred was thoroughly Rghtened,and continued to shout "Fire!" until some' nefbors rushed in and pulled the -  unfortunate man out of his perilous predicament. But he wa t  hin ore, ad,instead f allowing his rescuers topi:t t,]heeim   .demoralized and rushed b"ell"t ' t   sre i .  by a fire copny tE       d -;j g "rstass alarm" since their orgAied withem "madhine," they got their :"tub "' -I1 of wateSr,run o it five or six lengths of hose, and started after the "'fire."' ' They ov erok that "':r'e." They surrounded ib and i stopped its add-lened fiight. Then they :played two the scene. Upto this time the whole thing had been in the hands of the assistant foreman. Although late, hewas now determined to do something to distinguish himself;    76     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. so he ordered the axes brought and began to cut open the barr,to make sure that the fire was all out. Tongs yelled for him to be careful. Bus what does the brave fireman heed when duty calls him? Nothing! - Tongs started torun back to his shop, followed by that brave fireman, who gave the remnants of the barrel a clip every time he could reach it, which was about every other, step.  At -lepgth the last stave was stove in and the dilapidated armor dropped from the frightened smith, who lost no time;i in getting back to the vicinity of his shop, where he lay own like an overworked dog. Fred DougIass was one of the first to come to the !:; ll rescue. He hbiadi been in a state of great trepidation; b...ht (now that ]ie /saw his old companion once more anchored toif'thee h he I to his side. "Wha- wa de matter .boss?. he asked. "Ough!" or at best a grunt, was all the response he made. But he rolled' over once. "Are. you burned?"  Another grunt.  "I know what will fix him," said a bystander, pro- ducing a flask of rye. "Yip, dat is it, gib him a pull at dat." The neighbor got astride of 'the prostrate body of the blacksmith, and, thrusting the neck of the flask between his teeth, he allowed the contents to gurgle down his throat for a! moment. Tongs was pretty far gone, but he knew enough to lay so perfectly quiet that not a dropof the tipple   FRED DOUGbASS, AND HS MULE.    1" should get wasted, and finally, when it was withdrawn, he began to revive. "How is it with you now, old man " "Better. Damn that mule!" he whispered, faintly. "Dat yer ali a bad mule, boss, an I tole ye so,"* said Fred. A 3uNNrU! PIm. PoOn TOMGB PLIEB VOlt HiS Lura "Has - anybody got a   a pistol?" he asked, faintly, at the same time rising to a sitting posture. !"Don't kill yourself, Tongs; you're all right," sug- gested some one. Thunder! But I want to kill that 'mule," and the old fellow emphasized it with every faculty. 4 -'T ,?   ,78     FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. "Better n4a do dat, boss; h. 'longs ter de company, an' dey won't stan' no foolin' wid der animial,' said Fred, shaking his head threateningly. "Well;, he has got to die or take on them shoes," ;Said Tongs, struggling to his feet and smiting his fists. together. The whole party adjourned to the shop and looked in. The muleob h,werewas he?     h:i n0'p,   i nnnedrum, but the scene was (one tiat oiinspi          quotations, at all events. Ther  e : t I    ie  taking his rest, monarch of all 'ti d!  . I  ere was ever a mule -that would insire           ;cssing, this was the animaL:       ' ;      , "Now you have him," said (me. But Tongs looked doubtful.  .          , .   r , ( "Let tus :gt soe roes and bind him,"said another. Goo,: "oy;d,  golly!"' and   o FedsIo:odolna i head to show his appreciation and. sanfton' ofi he proposition. "Well, 'will you: help mei' asked-',Ton, sning ,to the corowd. -' - "Bet on us, old hoss," '-ts the general answer. The thing was agreed upon, and so they began looking about for ropes and cordage.  A good-sized one wis found at last, and a simultaneous rush was made for. the reoling mule. It wa,a success, because only one of the paity got. a; broken head,. and he was w /friend of ours  After a long struggle they got him over on e his back, and mocked at his efforts to escape. Fred took?ssession of one. fore leg, and by dint of great labor hi& hind legs I ' ;   FRED DOUGLAS ANDb, HS Ma E79   S0    - FRED DOUGLASS AND HS XULE. were tied together by the others, and he was pronounced a helpless mule. "Whoa, dar, whoa!" shouted Fred, for the mule swept him forward and back as he hung firmly to his leg. "Can't yer 'have yissilf?"  "Whoa! he, ho!" shouted the volunteers, who were also being yanked around the Shop as they clung to the rope which bound the mule's hindlegs. In fact, everybody was shouting "Whoa!" and being jerked around about as lively as ever they were. The enraged animal was making it exceedingly busy for his transient captors, and, had they not all paid the strictest attention to business, he would undoubtedly have floored the whole lotof f;them. But he gradually subsided, hoever, and lay very quiet indeedf;JrO a agry mutle; so quiet, in fact, it looked suspicious.  "That's itJi kew I'd fix him, if I could only get his eye once," sadt"ongs, who had up to this turn in;.affairs attended inu  usly to the business of keeping out of harm's way, : :: "Whai diadyer do in his eye, boss?" asked one of the party. ;:: "Didn't!"spitt barky juice in it, I guess," said a second. ,-                 . "Nio, sir, I biologizedihim,' replied Tongs, proudly. "What?" they all asked but Fred, who had seen how well the occult science had worked before "What yer gassin' 'bout " sneered one of them. "Of course you can't be expected to understand all l    FRED DOUGLASS AND HJIS mA        e1  82'    PFRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. these things; they's too deep for you," said Tongs, tturning to his forge, in contempt. "I know what's the matter wid you, old Tongs; you drunk all my Rye, and its mighty sarchin'." '"Yes, it's got terhis head.?' :  "No, dat arn't so; he's bicologized dis yer mule two times :afre," said Fred.  "Guess so, and tEats what the matter is. Come, ole man, hurry up now while he's quiet." "In-one imioment; tis ;  shoe wants a litlttling," re- plied tht smith, placing the glowing iron uponr his anvil and ommencing to haimmer it        . "'I linow!ed that thar mulbe?when ole Olements:owned him," said, ',ne of thepi - " '  "So did- i," put in antothe.     ; / "t's curus how the^^ole' mu'- penedt lter git with- out taki' him alg."              -  -'uess Je jdd toolk hi an' . he tcd back agin," replied -Fie4. "Why 'id,'  e ;come backj boy'?" ,Cd:[:a :ak ter'ee the fun, I guess." '"Wa"ld- "oneyitd of -h n:ew co,"ol e Ciem did jus' lov1e6 t tha oi nl h pQ  V     .1' "oved, him?" ':(n   in- disgust. 'Wal, I allus said that as how he rs    tif he'd such a heap, of red-hot cussedness AS this yer mue 3he-must have;;lbeen stark mad."^ - '"But he did, though." "What makes you think so?" "Why,hie loved him so muchly that he sent clear ter New York ter get a portrait painter*ter paint his picter.'   FRED Dl UGLASS AND HS. MULE. 88 c ' J * ' ,   ' ' , u AND THAT THAB MtEL W BSTOD SBLL I SF^ItO TEB TAKE AS MCH INRRERAT IN HAVINS HS PICTE^ TOOEN^ AS OLSE CTFMWTSF DID. X i  - -  C17s:  , :1X f  . -C rlxE  psmc SE-?maw' m xaT0Si n :t--   84     PRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULF:. "Ger 'long, Bill, yer stretchin' it, I guess," said one of the narrator's friends. '"No I arn't." "Yer allus did tell a pretty tough story, Bill." "Wal, that arn't ter say I can't tell gospel if I want ter," replied Bill, sharply. "Maybe you can." "I've got a shooter here as says I can," he replied, working his hand in among his old clothes. "OhI take wter, Bill," said his companion. "What's the use of 'god chaps like us fightin'?" "I'm the peaceablest cuss yer' ever saw, Hank, only I won't 'low nobiody ter 'spute my word." "I take Iaer,; ll all right." ' Good enouigh. I say as how the ole man sent ter New Yorkteget a prtrait painter er paint that thar mule's picter. An' hthat thar beastjest stood still an seemed ter take as much interest in havin' a good picter tookened as oleC'lem did hisself: I seed him doin' it." This appeared to settle matters. Tongs appealed to take but little interest in the con- troversy for while!-t was: going on he was hammering away at a shoe. The mille during the time was behaving himself quite respectably, and all hands were enjoying themselves over the dispute. But Tongs' greatest trouble seemed to consist in the effort he was evidently making to keep his temper under control. He ground his, teeth as he worked, and he looked daggers. Had he not been a man of strong ten. dencies he certainly would have murdered this cause of all his troubles. But he could not bear to give up;   FRED DOUGLAS AD HS MULs E.     8 *      L O O2,   86      FEDI DoOUASS AND HS MULE. and killing the animal without shoeing him first would be simply acknowledging that the mule was the best man o: the two. But .by the time Bill and Hank had settled their little difference of opinion, Tongs was ready again, either to take a hand in the controversy or to resume his at tempt at shoeing the mule. "You remember about that picter, Tongs;" said Bill, turning to the blacksmith. Tongs nodded. i "Ah! I was just- telling this boy a devilish good story 'bout ole Clements, when this cuss began to kick up and raise hemp," said Tongs, once more seeing a chance to return to that still untold story. "He war a queer one." "Queer! That's no name for it. Remember that cow he had 'so much trouble with?" "'Spect I've hearn tell somethin 'bout her." "Well, you kni;oshe wett ter work and dried up; refused ter give down a drop of lacteal fluid." "Fluid! I should say she Would refuse ter give such stuff as thaltt. Don't think she war an oil well, do you?"^  "Lacteal fluid is the eddercated way of saying milk." "Oh! .Wh]at a powerful 'thing it is ter have a right smart lotof lain'. Wal, go on with yer story." "Betterfix this yer mule. He's gittin' squirmin'." ' O6' he's al ;right now," replied Tongs, glancing at him. ': Wal, ole Clements got it inter his head that that yer cow was bewitched, and that I could 'cure her of it for him." e' Better cure dis yer mule, boss," said Fred, who be O   -FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.    87 gan to scent danger again in the renewed anxiety of the floored animal to regain his liberty. "Be quiet, boy, or you'll never hear this story out. Wal, one morning the old man started to drive that cow down ter my shop ter have her shod. Whoa!" Here he approached the mule with a hot shoe on the end of his punch, and again the beast began to kick and to bray out in terror. "Yes, he thought - whoa! he! - he thought that if he could get her shod, that she'd give down again. Whoa! you devil! whoa!" It was all very well:to say "Whoa," or to; use any number of milder terms, but that mule had evidently made up his mind not to have that hot shoe placed upon his foot. He manifested his reluctance by throw. ing up his back and sending out his heels with terrible fury.  Fred got a box on the head with the leg he had charge of, and he instantly relinquished his hold. Thus freed, the beast managed\tto regain his feet,. and at the same time to break the rope which bound his hind legs together. Then the fun commenced in deadly earnest. He 'seemed to have the power of twenty mules concentrated in him, and to have nearly as many legs as twenty mules would have, and he turned them all upon his tormentors with- terrible effect. He kicked -twenty ways at once, sending first one and then another out through the roof of the shanty. Fact. (This is history.) The air above the roof was filled with ascending and descending men, tools, bellows, and, in fact, presented i '   C 88 -- 5'   FRD DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. more the appearance of an explosion than anything else.  The principal devil who   incites the rambunctious mule appeared to be doing all-in his power to assist-this one in;makingg short work of his enemies, for he not only carried allbefore him, and carriedit above him as well, but he never ceased kicking until he had nearly de- molishke that blacksmith's shop, knocking the boards and tibrs into tooth-picks.  It was. a terrible up heaval; This done, he appeared to be more satisfied, and, calm. by laying down once more, he awaited any further demon- strations that might be made by the enemy. Yes, there he lay, monarch of all he surveyed, and he was a pretty good surveyor, too. But his enemies, oh, where were they  One of them lay, in a ditch of mud, An'd oneof them in a stack of hay! The above is heroic verse, so to speak. As soon as everything had settled down again loud cries and lamentations filled the air. Tongs groaned and shouted. He, had fallen into ;i mud puddle and had settled nearly to'his ears. "Oh, lord! oh, lord! where am I? Help! help! help!" ihe shouted.  "Oh, pse 4ead,! Bress de lord, I'se dead!" moaned Fred, from behind the wreck, where he had ,fallen upon his head, and Smashing a grindstone to pieces. s "Oh, my head!" howled one of the volunteers, who had fortunately landed upon a hay-stack on the other side of the road.   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. 89  9      FPD DOUGLASw AND HS MULE. "Damn that yer cussed mule," howled another, who had escaped with a broken nosef. .      w O  A ieartyi^;'Amenri!" responded from all sides, as the party beganotthe again. , ain. "I's '0 n gone. Took me ack to Ider camp," said Fred, Iimping up and wiping the blod frm his mug. They g  togeth er and compared notes, also noses - and other' damaged paQrts. Blood was flowing from every head that owned a pair of shoulders, and with one accord theye h tssed that kinxule.- ul * This 4id ndtseem tho affect the: m much, for hi. still lay there :so the floor of the blackRmith's shop, quietly observing all that was going on, but yvidently in no hurry to evacute the premises until after his enemies"had retreated and ibknowledged hi4m boss. -I - ^The next thih g in order was the bandaging of bugles,i and Itstyig up of damaged: mugs. -This was accomplished tith coiSiereable troubl, on account of the. scarcity of aages dand lint;, but with the assist- a ce of Tongs' shirt they managed to, tie themselves- -up temporarily and to stop the flow of blood, precious r;\ $ \blood. - , \ . X: ***   - ;; After 'gettng through with; this, they fiet' turned- 'thei  ttio t that monarchmule. There' he lay, ltlm -a^ summers'ii mraing, and evidently happy, in -the coni minm^9ao of his diabolism. -ie was , regular thi '4 d ghbr. ,ed.,o    . V at bandaged party of-.sufferers huddled together efior counsel, They gazed upon each oth-er's., face' and then at the cause of all the trouble.   FRED J)OUeiA ANDi H$ MiLS.. * -  sl "What shall we do " was the first anjd verynatural question. - ( m for revenge," growled one. '   \z ' ^ "Yes, that mule must die. That mule must perish. It would be humiliating to, let 'him live after ,what he has done. The blush of shame woulda imantle every TH - Mi " 'T O T E, SIT 'UATION.  face, aAn the enemy, who no  occupy our c would enjoy our dis6omfiture :and telegraphit w that the world nmghtknow  f our hmiiating Ths little speechi was made by Tong. - He -" got jus nuf o dat yer iAule, said e " ruver go right inter a bttle       .  r             -   FR92BUD DOUGTAASS AND HS MULE. "Wouldn't it e a  ood idea to let him loose in among the YanksI "No, we should still be 'unavenged, that mule must die," said Tongs. "But how?"  "Shoot him on the spot." "Go 'way, boss," put in Fred. "Dat yer mule would jus' get fat on bullets." "Suppose we explode a keg of powder in the cellar?" "Good! But whar's the powder?" "I've got ten pounds at homej' and if it is a vote I will go and get it," said one of the 'party. It was a vote, without question. X   mWhile the man'was absent for the powder the ques- ' tion naturally arose as to who should take the risk of  ?placing the powder -in the cellar iunder the mule.  This was finally aranged by drawing lots The task fell upon Mr. Tongs, although itiwas quite evident that , i:e would -have transferred the honor to almost any one in -the world for a very slight compensation. In -fact, he, in the greatness of his heart and the freshness of his -:wounds, offered to let Fred have the job, all to himself. "None for Joseph, boss, none for dis yer child," wasi Fred's open-hearted reply. "I'se gwine ter try an "Ab'ack ter de camp wid what I hab left of myself." - W :11, to make an altogether too long story short, - :"Wheli the prowder and fuse arrived Tongs took it and cau- ' iousy appiached the ruin of his shop. With as much delicacy as he would have manifested in treading on : :unmarketable eggs, did he creep toward that enthroned mue-uthat long-eared, four-legged monarch. C: - a0   FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.      98 At the same breach in the underpinning out of which Fred had crawled once before did the portly and san- guinary blacksmith find an entrance to the- cellar. It was another of those supreme moments of which we have had so many since this story' began. But what is the use of telling a story, if you don't have thrilling situations, dramatic effects, and supreme moments? - M t  CONSULTATION OF THE SulVlIORBS. THEY BES0LVE 7PON  qOmC  : CERTAIN REVENGOE. THAT' MULE MUST DB  Slowly and cautiously did he crawl along, un reache& a position directly under the proposed sac4 Then he proceeded to tremble and lay the fuse, so t t might convey a certain quantity of ignited carbon into te granulited charcoal, sulphur, and saltpetre, after i,; he made a hasty exit., Did you ever notice how : uicl l    tss  (   #, '    9 4    FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE. quicker a man gets away from danger, than he ap- proaches it  The fuse was lighted, and all hands retired to a safe distance to note the result. In due course of time the result, came. An explosion 'came with it-in fact, was of it. The air was filled with debris, mutilated mule, smoke, and all the accompaniments of a final burst. Once more we might venture to ask: "The mule, oh, where was he  Ask of the winds that far around With fragments strew the -the . See  But that mule was not doomed to die unavenged-no, no! While the enemy stood shouting over his hashing up, and blowing up, one of his hind legs descended, and striking poor Tongs on the head, it put a full stop to all further mule shoeing on his part. It was a terrible blow, but that awful hoof was true to the last. As for that story regarding Clements' cow, it was never told, although it might have been, and probably was, quite as funny as this. one, regarding FRED DOUGLASS AND HIS MULE.    FRED DOUGLASS AND HS MULE.       95   YES, THS IS HOW THAT COMPANY MULE PERISHED,  TO THE REGRET OF ALL HANDL . AND MORE ESPECIALLY  SABLE CURIOSITY, FRED  DOUGLASS.      
         
       
   
