
    ----CITATION----
        MacGregor, Annie L.. The Professor's Wife, or, It Might Have Been .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7154
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE PROFESSOR'S WIFE; 
               OR, IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN. 
             
            BY ANNIE L. MACGREGOR, AUTHOR OF "JOHN WARD'S GOVERNESS." 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
             
            1870. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
          
          
             
            TO MY COUSIN, 
            MRS. LUCY H. HOOPER, WHOSE LOVE AND SYMPATHY HAVE NEVER FAILED ME, This Book IS DEDICATED BY 
            
               THE AUTHOR.
             
          
       
      
         
            The professor's wife, or, It might have been 
             
             
            THE PROFESSOR'S WIFE; 
            OR, IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               IF you have never been in New London you have missed seeing one of the loveliest of New England villages; and I advise you to pack up your trunk the first warm summer weather, and go there. It is situated directly on the little River Thames, an inlet of Long Island Sound, and is one of the most delightful summer places I have ever visited. It is a perfect picture of New England life,-the neat white houses, with their inevitable green shutters, always, as a matter of course, closed: each house an exact counterpart of its neighbor, and each house having a front door. 
               I mention this fact particularly, as, during my stay in New London, I have walked through the place at different hours of the day, and never chanced to see any of the inhabitants use the aforesaid door. A door we ill consider indispensable; and no doubt it is less embarrassing for the windows to have a fellow outlet, besides making the entire effect more symmetrical. Though why the inhabitants of this good city failed to put their front doors to their proper use, I was not as much mystified as a stranger, who had never lived in New England, would have been. The reason is simply this,-the people, with few exceptions, live in their kitchens, keeping the front part of the house strictly for company,-it being too good for every-day use. 
               Such economy may be commendable, but is very disagreeable, and I doubt if it is wholesome. I would rather have a house with fewer rooms than have some of their number always closed. I do not like the damp, musty smell which such rooms always have; and, being fond of the sunshine, would not willingly shut it out. One man, whose house I saw in Groton, a little village on the other side of the river, situated directly opposite New London, actually finished the back part of his house, and left the front without any door at all, so superfluous did he consider it,-though it was explained to me by saying his wife died during the building of the house. This man, no doubt, had a better reason than his neighbors for shutting himself in; possibly he was afraid to give the fairer sex entrance. It suggested a new idea to me, for I had never heard, in case of siege, the proper opening should be entirely blotted out. It might be advantageous to make one's escape as well as entrance, and in that case a double avenue, no doubt, would prove useful. Then, too, I also labored under the impression that windows and doors were planned with the house, and finished at the same time, and not punched in, as you would push a cork in a bottle, when the whole structure was completed. Every one must travel to learn; and if I have any new ideas on the subject of architecture, I am entirely indebted to my visit to the little village of Groton. 
               But enough-New London is a beautiful place, though very quiet, and the people appear to have gone to sleep, since their exertions in rebuilding, when Arnold made a bonfire of their city. About four miles below the city is Fort Trumbull, at present a garrisoned fort; and the music of the band, and the bugle-call of the sentinel, form a pleasant break in the peaceful calm. Directly opposite this fort, on the other side of the river, near the little village of Groton, we find Fort Griswold, the fort betrayed by Benedict Arnold. A massive stone monument is erected here, and you can read on a tablet the names of the heroes who so gallantly did their duty. A pile of broken bricks is pointed out as the house occupied by the officers, and one particular spot is shown you as the front door where the lieutenant-colonel commanding fell, pierced through by the sword he had surrendered to the English officer who headed the butchery. Even the old well is there, which the soldiers used, still in use, though the grounds near and around the fort have become a corn-field. The tears would start to my eyes as I wandered through the ruins, and I thought it would be pleasant to sit here and dream. My readers may smile at my romance, and would hardly understand me, if they could see the spot; but how could any one who loved their country, hear of those heroes, and visit the scene of their martyrdom, unmoved? Surely one would be forgiven if they cast the halo of romance and love round the crumbling ruins, and shed a tear for the dead who, many years ago, betrayed by Arnold, nobly died, as true patriots should. 
               New London is quite well known as a place of summer resort, though last summer, when I was there, the Pequot House held but few strangers. It is too quiet a place for those who care for gayety; and I suppose, to pleasure-seekers, the most forcible reason of all is that five dollars a day is rather much to pay for looking at rocks and trees and being cool, when you might be so gloriously hot in dancing, through the summer, at some more fashionable place. I am not appealing to the gay butterflies of our world when I speak of the pleasures of New London, for although I do not understand, I cannot help admiring their bright coloring. I appeal to the plain common sense, and, possibly, more stupid portion of our community. It takes all kinds of people to make up a world; and, though the butterfly is brilliant, we cannot help commending the snail's forethought in carrying his house on his back. 
               It was delicious, after leaving Philadelphia, where the thermometer marked far above the nineties in the shade, to be driven along the beach, and watch the lazy ebb and flow of the tide, breathing the invigorating salt air, which carried new strength with every breath. Then, too, the Maltese cats. Even the fish market, where the fish could be seen swimming in their separate tanks, was an object of interest. When you have been almost baked, roasted, or fried in a crowded uncomfortable city in the month of July, it is no wonder that, in heaving a sigh of relief, and realizing what it is to be actually cool again, everything is looked upon with interest. 
               I am writing of New London as I saw it last summer, and, as I am assured, it was ten or twelve years before the time I am writing of. Don't open your eyes, gentle reader, for it is impossible that I should have been born ten or twelve years before I really was,-and if you attempt writing, you will find the critics the most particular class of people you ever had anything to do with, for they never are pleased. They strongly object to stories whose scene is laid in the clouds: though, after all, when stories are but the misty dreamings of the brain, I don't see, myself, why they should make such a fuss-but they do. So I am very safe in laying the scene of my story in a place which was built long before our own city, and which has not grown to any extent, or changed, except in building one or two new houses, for the last three or four years. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               I DON'T know whether you have ever met a man like John Ashton-such men are not plenty-but I have met one or two in my life, and I think it is very possible that you have done the same. John Ashton was a. professor in New London College, New London (called so by courtesy), for New London, besides being a very lovely place, was noted for its good schools. It was not a place of any importance as far as business was concerned; and there was no reason why it should have been so favored, unless the health and beauty of the place was a great consideration, and also that it is pleasanter to creep away into the shade to study. Children do not often care to consider these last advantages of as great importance as their parents do, so no doubt it is better that the matter is left for older heads to decide. Besides having a college, known in the country round as the seat of learning, New London had also a school for young ladies quite as prominent. 
               Fifty, and sometimes a hundred girls were there collected, for the school was quite large; and bright, merry girls' faces made the otherwise sober place a living, working reality. Children from the north, south, east, and western part of the State were there congregated; for, as I have said, both schools were well known, and their fame had been well established. Therefore when girls left and married, in course of time they sent their children; and year after year new faces were added, and child after child was taken through the same path of learning. 
               It was a very busy place: every one appeared deep in study; though the girls were not so much engaged but what they could give friendly glances to their fellow-collegians. This is only what all boys and girls do, so that I am not disposed to find much fault; for, on the whole, it was a well-conducted little community. It is true, all the knot-holes in the fence had to be closed with neat little bits of tin, for the boys were fond of glancing through at the flowers in the young ladies' academy. It was a pity that they were so fond of botany, for the pieces of tin were hard to put on, and did not add to the beauty of the fence. 
               The principal, no doubt, was afraid of the constant strain on their eyes, for every one knows that a knot-hole is a very small point of vision, and the strain is all confined to one eye; therefore the difficulty was remedied. But the boys were fond of gymnastics, and, untiring as boys always are, vaulted on the top of the high fence, and ran splinters in their hands, not to mention the damage done to their nether garments. Therefore the fence was crowned with a long row of double iron spikes. This, no doubt, was intended for ornament, for it gave the place a martial appearance; but, at any rate, the garden, which was very large, was damp near the fence, and the girls had their limits, and were kept at a proper distance. In disregard of all these precautions, many a mischievous one, more daring than her companions, would often break from the ranks and rush into forbidden ground, and even sometimes open the gate and gaze far down the lane. Now this is all very wrong; and it is a pity children do not realize the importance of study as forcibly as their parents. But school-girls will be school-girls, and boys vice versa, and all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, as we all know by experience. 
               The Misses Burr and Trelands' was an excellent school, if we except one particular,-they taught every one of their scholars to sing pious, good, little songs through their noses. Now I don't want you to draw down your face and laugh, and think I am not in earnest; for when I tell a story I always take a pride in being truthful about it. Miss Burr had one of those thin, pinched noses made to be nasal; and then every one knows that there is a certain style of Presbyterian hymn that must be so sung to give it due effect. At any rate, I don't know the reason, if it was not owing to their teacher, and I am not called upon to be responsible for the peculiarity. But every one of those fifty girls used their noses, instead of their mouths, in singing, and so great is the influence of early impressions, that some even continued to do so all through their lives. 
               But you will think I am digressing sadly from my subject, and wonder what I can be thinking of. Not at all, I am simply showing you the field of Professor Ashton's labors and men will introduce you to the man. He is coming up the walk now, and we will take a look at him. It is a tall, stooping figure, clad in a dark sack-coat with immense pockets, more for use than beauty. He has a serious, kind face,-a face you would never feel afraid of, and never distrust, and his broad, massive forehead appears as though it were wrinkled by deep study and thought. It is with a very preoccupied face he walks along, and, as he turns the little object he holds, over and over in his hand, we see he is far away in dream-land, and does not see the bright-faced children who crowd so eagerly round him. To us the little object is simply a stone, and we do not see, with his eyes, what great beauties it contains. 
               "Going to give us a lecture to-day, professor? Do! Do!" The eager words are poured forth in chorus, while he is perfectly surrounded. But, as he looks on the eager throng dreamily, we see he is hardly yet on a level with the work-day world. Then the great man is led, or rather dragged, to a seat under the trees, and we understand what a favorite he is with the children. 
               "Do, professor, give us a lecture as you did last Monday,-we have so many stones and ferns, and you never come! Do, to-day, the last hour! Miss Moore is so cross, she never makes it nice as you do, and I do hate her so." The words were poured one upon another, while the child's face was raised pleadingly. 
               "Softly, softly, little one! So, because I do all the talking, and make your lesson easy, you like me better than Miss Moore. Lazy! Lazy!" The professor quoted a long Greek passage, not much to the enlightenment of his little hearer, while he stroked her ruffled curls. 
               John Ashton was Professor of Greek and Latin at the boys' school; he taught mathematics also, and could speak two or three languages perfectly. He was respected by every one for his learning, which he carried so simply and easily; and this perfect simplicity of character made him a favorite everywhere-never impatient in class-time, and never put out with the most stupid boy, it was no wonder they all loved him, and looked forward to their lessons with pleasure. Sometimes, though it was not a regular thing, but only when he found time, he gave lectures in Botany, Geology, or Natural Philosophy in the girls' school. The professor knew everything, so his pupils thought, and every knotty point was kept for his discussion by the admiring little conclave, who always welcomed his arrival. He had the faculty of imparting all he knew easily and simply, so made every task interesting. He did not use quantities of long words, as some teachers do, probably to show their own learning, for they only make the path to knowledge more stony, and hard to climb. 
               "It is so very warm to-day, and I have not been well, so I am to have an hour's recess-won't you show me my sum, professor? I can't do it." A child's tired, troubled face was held up to him. 
               While the professor, after remonstrating with her for the break in her play-hour, soon was deeply interested in making her understand the puzzling question. Slate and pencil in hand, Professor Ashton was at his ease, while the child's merry laugh soon proved that she had mastered the difficulty. 
               Everywhere he was a favorite; simple as a child in heart, he won all children's hearts, while the most learned were interested and delighted when they could have a talk with the professor. A great scholar, a man of wonderful acquirements, as I have said, but totally unfitted for the every-day business of life. Simple as a child in all business matters, Professor Ashton might have been very comfortable, in a worldly point of view, long ago, but he never knew how to take care of his money. He would contribute largely to all works of science, and thought no money ill spent when it was in that cause. But, as his wife said in despair, "he always looked like a scarecrow, and would wear his coat till it tumbled off his back before he got a new one." The only satisfaction she ever had was,-"Don't worry." This was an impossible thing for Mrs. Ashton not to do, for she was not of a happy disposition. She would often say, in her indignation, that she believed the professor would go forever without eating if he were not reminded. 
               Mrs. Ashton was one of those miserable, unhappy people we so often see in life, who are entirely unfitted for the post they occupy. She had a great idea of dress and society, and it was a mystery, feeling as she did, how she ever married Professor Ashton,-but the greatest mystery of all was how they ever were married, how the professor managed to go through the necessary amount of courtship essential on such occasions! It was a mystery which will remain unsolved, though every one who knew them wondered; and some people were unkind enough to say that Mrs. Ashton married the professor, not he her, but that she took the final step, and kept him up to the mark till the fatal, or rather happy, day. It might have been so; though, for the credit of my own sex, I hope it was not: but every one who knew them came to the same conclusion,-that they were the most strangely matched couple in the world. 
               They had two daughters, their only children, who were being educated in New London, at the same school I have spoken of Professor Ashton in connection with. Florence, the eldest, was her mother's pet, and was as much spoiled as she could well be, though she was naturally sweet-tempered and affectionate. Her chief defect lay more in utter weakness of character than any serious fault, though she had more than her share of selfishness. 
               Kate, the second daughter, inherited a great deal of her father's intellect, with much practical good sense, which he so utterly lacked. When a little child, it was amusing and pretty to see how little Kate was always on the alert to anticipate her father's wants. It was she who would pick up his gloves and handkerchief, which he would otherwise lose, and put them in some safe place, to be ready when called for. She was always with her father, more than either her mother or sister, for Kate was the only one the professor allowed to touch his papers, or any of his belongings, in his study. She knew just where he liked to have his things, and always went in with the housemaid, when she dusted and put his papers in the same disorder as she found them, but just as he liked to have them. She watched her father so much that she knew exactly what he wanted; so it was always with a satisfied feeling the professor looked at his treasures after one of these invasions, finding everything as he left it, minus the dust, and nothing lost or misplaced, as a more careless hand might have done. 
               Professor Ashton was always absorbed in his books, and preoccupied; and it was perfectly impossible to make him take any interest in his dress. He never wore gloves, and if by any chance he pretended to, never had both on at the same time, so one was quite fresh, while the other was entirely soiled and gone. 
               Florence, his eldest daughter, agreed with her mother, and was often heartily ashamed of her father; while Kate, who was perfectly devoted to him, and thought no one could compare with papa, was always on the lookout for his comfort. From the time she was a little child she kept up her constant watch, and did so many little things for him without his knowledge that she kept him looking better than he otherwise would have done. 
               Some people have the art of doing things quietly and easily, so that they hardly seem to be doing anything at all; while others do everything with an effort, and there is such a groaning and creaking of their machinery as it works, that one is so conscious of every movement it is really painful to see them. Mrs. Ashton was one of these unfortunate persons. She would lecture her husband by the hour on carelessness, though she never succeeded in making him improve, but only made him thoroughly uncomfortable. It was little Kate who would quietly take the soiled handkerchief from his pocket and put in its place a fresh one; and when she grew older, it was she again who saw his shirt was not button-less, and that the studs were in ready to put on. Her father never thought of such things, and spent as little time as he could on himself, and it was very pretty and sad to see his daughter fill her mother's place, straighten the crooked parting of his hair, and brush the lint and dust off of his coat,-it was all done so quietly and easily, he was never fretted by the change. 
               She was very proud of her father, and gloried in his great intellect; that great, rough, shaggy head, that, with all her care, never would stay smooth, she often looked at fondly and admiringly. For Kate, though the youngest of the three, appreciated her father more than her mother or sister ever did; and it was quite an understood thing she should take care of her big baby, as she called him in play. He often made his hair more rough when she was near so as to have her dainty fingers about him, for it was all the petting he ever received; and it gave Kate great pleasure to do anything for him, though she did not spend nearly as much time on herself as Florence did. Kate could be ready in a few minutes if anything were wanted, but Florence never would make her appearance unless in full dress. Mrs. Ashton praised her for the care she always took with her dress, but I doubt if she would have found it as convenient if she had not always had Kate to run errands for her. It is hard to work without sympathy, as Kate was beginning to learn, though it had been her father's lot through life. 
               With a different wife the professor might have been a different man from what he was,-not so absorbed, eccentric, and self-contained; for we all know how the spirit, after repeated rebuffs, will close itself into itself, and, surrounded by its shell of apparent indifference, be literally feeding on its own strength. Often, when they were together with others, Mrs. Ashton would see her husband surrounded by his admiring friends, listening and being instructed by him, she was worrying about the fit of his coat, or some other defect in his appearance pearance. And often, when he would turn to her for sympathy, some trite, commonplace remark or irritable word would send him back again to himself, weary and sick to the soul. Mrs. Ashton, why could not you take him as he was, and fill in the broken links in his chain of life? It is woman's truly blessed mission on earth; and though sometimes long in coming, and disheartening, who will say they have not their reward? 
               Kate, from the time she could walk almost, had been her father's solace; and it was touching to hear John Ashton pour the wealth of his brilliant intellect into his baby daughter's ears. The serious, troubled baby's face wondering at the long words, and smoothing his rough hair in sympathy, for it was all the little one could do. But as he looked in his child's troubled face he actually persuaded himself she knew what he meant, and it was a great comfort to him. Did you ever, when you were all alone, tell your troubles to an old dog, and feel comforted? If the heart did not find some vent at times it would burst,-we cannot always live without sympathy; and a dog, if our only friend, is better than none,-even the telling of our trials is some relief. The professor had a four-footed friend of this kind, a Skye terrier named Socrates, who was quite well known in New London. He was an unusually staid, thoughtful old dog, and I don't doubt the professor's confidences, as well as the respect in which he held his master, made him more sedate than others of his species, for Socrates was unfailing in his admiration of his master, and was his untiring friend and companion. 
               As Kate grew older she could enter more fully into her father's feelings; and she studied Greek and Latin, and many things more suited for a boy than a girl, to be more of a companion for him It was surprising to see so much thought and care in one so young; her mother always irritated her, and Kate never appeared her best while with her; but with her father she was a different being, and though she saw but little of him, as his duties kept him very long, that little was truly blessed to both. 
               Florence Ashton was entirely different from Kate in character: she was a very pretty picture to look at; her bright, gay ribbons, and every dainty thing about her, was studied, for Florence's whole life was devoted to making herself pretty, and to her belongings. Wonderful hats and bonnets she made, and cunning things she devised; all very beautiful and wonderful, and the girl, no doubt, deserved great credit for quickness; but when we consider it was all for self, we cannot admire so much, for Florence never made or did anything but for herself, while Kate always had her share to contribute when there was need. It was true, Kate never looked as dainty, for her ribbons were not as fresh,-but of the two, which sister in the end would be the richer? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               PROFESSOR ASHTON'S house was situated in one of the principal streets of New London, a small, ivy-covered cottage, which, from time immemorial, had been occupied by one of the faculty connected with the college. It is a pretty, inviting little nook, one side entirely covered with ivy and woodbine, and long sprays of roses climbing and mixing with the vivid green till the contrast was delightful. 
               It is not eight o'clock yet, one whole hour before his duties commence; and Professor Ashton, who is deep in some new study, rubs his smooth hair, which Kate has been putting in order, higher and higher up from his forehead, until it literally stands on end while he reads on. We can see how much the man is at home, and how thoroughly he enjoys as he reads. Both arms on the table in the most awkward position possible to conceive of, with the book held tightly to him, and the fingers of one hand straying lovingly through the pages, while the other hand is busy rumpling his hair or disarranging everything which is within his reach. 
               Mrs. Ashton is also busy fussing and fixing about the room; pretending to be doing something, but literally doing nothing but trying to attract her husband's attention. Mrs. Ashton has, no doubt, something of importance to say, and, as she brings down a book with a very emphatic thump, we see she is losing patience. 
               "Professor--" 
               "Yes, my dear." Her husband never moved. 
               "When will you be at leisure to attend to me?" If Mrs. Ashton intended to be ironical it was all lost on her husband, who did not hear at all. Now this is very provoking to see any one so absorbed when you have something to say, and find yourself of no consequence at all. Mrs. Ashton appeared as though she were fully conscious of the hardness of her lot, as she gave a succession of little, low sighs. Sigh away Mrs. Ashton, foolish woman! You must know by experience that nothing short of the power of a pair of bellows or a furnace will arrest the professor when so deep in study. 
               "Professor--" 
               "Yes, my dear." 
               "Mr. Ashton, do you think I am a fool?" We see the lady was fast losing her temper. 
               "Yes, my dear." 
               "Goodness!" Mrs. Ashton raised her handkerchief to her eyes, while she gave vent to an audible sob. 
               It would take something more than that, however, as the worthy lady found after recovering sufficiently from her indignation to be able to proceed with her dusting. First, the table was all dusted and the professor's arms literally dusted off; and finally, the book was dusted out of his hands and shut with a bang, as much as to say she was not going to have any more of that. 
               "Are you going to your class this morning, Mr. Ashton?" Mrs. Ashton always called the professor Mr. Ashton when she was angry, just as some women call their husbands father when they mean to be affectionate,-which of all silly and disagreeable ways of expressing affection, I think is the most so. (If your husband is old enough to be your father, call him so by all means, if you choose; though I don't think any man, under the circumstances, would like such a reminder; and if he is the proper age, it is simply ridiculous.) The professor, deprived of his book, armed himself with a delicate ivory paper-cutter, and was deeply engaged in tracing all sorts of queer figures over the table near him, perfectly unconscious of giving offense. 
               "Mr Ashton--" 
               "Yes, my dear." The professor is so absorbed he does not see his wife needs any attention, and his short reply was more to gain time and quietness, if possible. It is the same impulse, when we are reading or writing and disturbed by a noise, we say shoo! We have no idea that our shooing will remove the difficulty, it is only to gain time to finish what we are about. 
               "Mr Ashton--" 
               "Yes, my dear." Still the same reply. The professor was taking a leaf from Poe's much-abused Raven, and now his wife's fingers tingled to give him a good rap. 
               The professor, as he spoke, placed the thumb of his right hand on the forefinger of the same, and making a sort of cone, raised it to one eye, and glanced slowly and deliberately at his wife's cap, taking in every bow as he squinted very hard to get the right focus. From the bows of her cap to her face each hair was noted, and from her face to her breastpin slowly that curious eye traveled down each button of her dress, finally ending with a steady survey of the carpet. It was amusing to see his wife. First her face of pleased satisfaction when her husband's was raised; then her indignation, so clearly depicted by her nervous fingers,-how she bridled and grew red in the face at the supposed disrespect. How was she to know that her husband was thinking of concave and convex lenses, and trying different points of vision? A chair would have done just as well for his purpose, but his wife's cap, being more directly in his way, attracted his attention, and the poor man did not see what a tempest in a teapot he was making. 
               "Mr. Ashton--" 
               "Yes, my dear." The professor having joined his two hands together, the thumb of the right hand on the thumb of the left, the forefinger of the same hand in the same position, putting each finger on its opposite brother, he gazed slowly and approvingly at his work, which he raised to his face, taking in both eyes this time for another survey of his wife's cap. 
               Slowly the provoking eyes traveled over each bow, while he curved or lengthened his hands at his pleasure, taking in each object separately. They traveled slowly down to the carpet, where again he remained lost in study. Now this was truly provoking and unbearable. What man, or woman either, could, with patience, stand such treatment? We fully enter into Mrs. Ashton's feelings as she pulled down all the window blinds with a jerk, bringing the room into almost total darkness; and then, when she had finished with the windows, she shut the door with a bang. What a never-failing source of expression the banging of a door is, we all know; sometimes meaning anger and defiance when done by a woman; or, judging from a man's point of view, the same meaning words itself differently, and is firmness and decision of purpose. 
               But at last the professor was awakened, and mildly remarked, "Yes, my dear," by way of saying something new, while he stretched his long legs as if just awake, and straightened himself generally, much to his wife's indignation. 
               "Mr. Ashton, do you know I have been waiting patiently for the last half hour to speak to you?" 
               "Well, my dear." The professor winked his eyes very hard, by way of showing he was all attention to whatever his wife had to propose. 
               Now, you agree with me, I am sure, that Mrs. Ashton had a different idea of what is meant by the word from our own. No doubt, however, it sounded better, and put the matter more forcibly; may-be she agreed with Mrs. Nickleby, that it would not make any difference a hundred years hence; and, as I don't suppose it would, we will let the subject drop. 
               "Mr. Ashton, I hope you can give me ten minutes' attention." The irate lady was trying to be dignified, while she straightened her cap the better to tell her story. 
               "Well, my dear." The professor winked very hard, and tried to look interested. But, unfortunately, he was attacked with one of his spasms of sneezing, which for a time at least prevented all conversation. 
               Now a sneeze is a sneeze, we all acknowledge. No one, however, can tell exactly how to express it: it varies so often with different individuals. There is the little, short, uncomfortable kit-chov! which goes all up through the nose, bringing the tears into one's eyes, and making you for the time generally uncomfortable. Then there is the long, easy kit-choo-oo! in which there is so much genuine comfort. 
               The professor's sneeze was unfortunately neither of these: he performed this little ceremony, as he did everything else, differently from any one else. It was a spasm, as I have said; the most frightful contraction of the muscles of the face and upper lip, and a succession of snorts and wheezes, lasting, without intermission, any time from half a minute till two whole minutes. Now I hope you have no friend who sneezes in this style; or, if you have, that you are blessed with a large stock of patience, for it certainly is very trying to your temper. 
               "Excuse me, my dear." Professor Ashton looked very guilty when he saw his wife's foot impatiently tapping up and down, as she commenced a sentence to be only interrupted. It was truly unbearable, particularly when the professor, having exhausted himself in sneezing, ended by choking himself during a fresh paroxysm till he was quite red in the face; and finally had to go for a glass of water, by way of recovering himself. 
               Now this is all very hard; and my lady readers will sympathize with Mrs. Ashton, when, after having recovered himself and buttoned up his coat, the professor looked in the door, innocent of giving offense, and informed his wife it was almost nine o'clock, and then walked slowly down the garden-walk to the gate. So Mrs. Ashton had to control her temper till a more fitting season, for there was certainly no chance of giving it vent then. 
                
               Professor Ashton was a trial, no doubt, as we will all agree, though we cannot alter him, and must take him as he is, not as he might have been. Who can say, if he had had more sympathy in the outset of his career, he might not have been different from what he was? If his wife had taken more trouble, and borne patiently with his failings, he might in time have been won in some part from his books, and not have given them his whole life. As it was, the professor went on his way deep in considering different forms of lenses and the right point of vision, not knowing his wife wanted to speak to him, and how provoking he had been. 
               It was just as well, however, as far as his wife was concerned; for, if he had heard, he no doubt would have forgotten again directly. You must not think, from this scene, the professor was always in this uncomfortable state of mind; he was sometimes quite interested in what went on around him, and knew all that was essential about the place in which he lived. Kate and her father had often long talks when he was at leisure, which did her a great deal of good, and helped and strengthened her in many ways. 
               It was always the professor's misfortune to be particularly absent with his wife; he did not mean to be so provoking, and would have remedied the evil as much as lay in his power if he had known where the fault lay; but Mrs. Ashton was in the habit of saying so many silly things, that he had fallen into an equally bad habit of not listening to her, unless her call on his attention was very urgent. Then, also, his wife never considered the right time; she was always inclined to talk when he was deep in some study and wished to be quiet; or quiet when her husband was at leisure, and would have been more companionable. 
               Mrs. Ashton, poor woman-for I don't think she meant it-was always going by contraries. She was one of those kind of women who must be worrying, and never are happy. Her dress was always a little top long, or a little too short; then her parlor curtains were just the right stiffness, so the window must not be up to take it out when it was warm; and when it was cold she liked to have the house aired. If her husband was sick, or any of the family, she would shake up their pillows and propose changes in their position, in order to make the invalid more comfortable, when the great thing needed was quiet. Or else she would have quantities of things to eat you did not want, and were better without; and would look so injured when she was refused that the poor patient would do as she wanted to satisfy her, and very probably would not be as well afterward. It was all done through the best of motives; and it was a great pity she should waste so much time, and give herself so much trouble, in doing the exact reverse of what she intended. It is unfortunate that the Mrs. Ashtons of this world do not realize that these little daily annoyances are harder to bear, and wear out a person's life sooner, than great sorrow. But they never do know; and, unfortunately, there are a great many men and women in this world who, like Mrs. Ashton, live but to make their homes miserable. We will leave her, however, and turn to the other members of her family. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               "FLORIE! Florie! Do come! It is half-past eight o'clock, and Monsieur will be so vexed." A young girl's clear, sweet voice rang through the house. "Florie! Florie! Do come, or I must leave you. We have our dicte the first hour, you know, and I was late yesterday, and Monsieur will be so angry." 
               "Kate, what shall I do? I had to take down my hair three times, and I can't find my gloves." 
               "Don't be such a pink, Flore, come along! I have not got mine either, and can't wait." 
               "I am surprised at you, Katherine!" Mrs. Ashton, who was in the parlor, much interested in a new novel, joined her daughter in the hall. "Find your gloves, Katherine: I never could allow such a breach of propriety. Florence dear, here are yours." Mrs. Ashton kissed her favorite daughter, who had at last made her appearance in answer to her sister's repeated calls. 
               "Kiss me too, mamma mia. I can't wait for the gloves on account of my dicte." Kate Ashton held up a hurried, eager face to her mother. 
               "Katherine, I am surprised at your carelessness: never let it happen again-I hope you may some day learn to take as much pride in your appearance as your sister. You must not scream to Florence when you want her, as you have been doing the last ten minutes: it is extremely unladylike." 
               "Yes, mamma. But kiss me: the dicte won't wait, and I must be going. Come, Flore." And Kate ran down the walk lightly, followed more leisurely by her sister, who was very careful to hold up her dress, and otherwise preserve her freshness intact. 
               Mrs. Ashton-I have not spoken of her appearance-was a pale, faded, little woman. She had once been a beauty, and as we look at Florence Ashton's delicate complexion, we can see what her mother had been, for they were very much alike. She was dressed in a forlorn morning-dress, for Mrs. Ashton never wasted her appearance on uncertainty, and looked better in the evening than at any other time, for then she was more sure of seeing company. Her most serious occupation consisted in reading the last new novel, and petting and spoiling her eldest daughter, who, as could be seen at a glance, was her favorite child. 
               Florence had naturally a sweet disposition, so was not as much spoiled as she might have been if she had been differently endowed. But I will leave the two girls' characters to develop of themselves, and will not weary my reader with a description. 
               The two sisters were in marked contrast, and at the first glance Florence was considered by all who saw her, and by her mother's friends, as the beauty. She had a bright pink and white complexion, which was her greatest charm, though her good looks lay more in her general appearance, and a certain air of prettiness some girls have, than in any just claim to beauty; for, as we look at her closely, we see she has not one perfect feature. 
               Kate, on the contrary, has regular features, but her complexion does not accord well with her sister's. Florence's cheeks are pretty and pink, while Kate's are crimson, and much too brilliant for beauty. At least her mother often said to her, reproachfully, that she looked like a milkmaid, and was a true Ashton, just as though Kate would not, be happy in being like her father. It is strange what pleasure relatives take in speculating on a child's eyes, nose, and mouth, and in blaming all the bad traits on the opposite side of the family, as though the poor child was to blame, and could make itself look differently if it wanted. 
               Kate's hair is a dark, rippling brown, while Florence's is of a fairer shade, with a slight auburn tint. Kate's large, serious, dark-gray eyes have a world of meaning in them her sister's totally lack; but, then, how can blue eyes, with their fairer lashes, express half the meaning those shadier dark ones do? Kate's eyes remind me of Carlyle's description of Frederick the Great: "Swift darting as the stars, steadfast as the sun. Of a lambent outer radiance, springing from some great inner sea of light and fire." 
               Florie's mouth is her best feature. It is a perfect rosebud, and her little, pearly teeth, shown so liberally when she laughed, were perfection, so that you longed to call forth the laugh again, to display their beauties. Kate's mouth is fine, and there is a great deal of sweetness as well as power about this feature, as we notice when we examine it closely; but her teeth are very irregular, and give her mother no end of trouble. Her face is very sad when in repose, and I think the secret lies in her great, loving, dark eyes; for when she laughs her expression is entirely changed, and her face is much more full of life than her sister's. 
               If you were to meet the two girls, you would be very apt to turn for another look at Florence, she is so dainty, and has so many pretty trinkets about her, for she was very fond of dress, and was never tired of thinking of new things to enhance her charms. Kate, at the present time, is more developed in limb and muscle than is considered essential in a young lady; and though she is getting over a vast deal of ground, and there is no end of energy about her, her sister's face is more in accordance with grace. 
               When we look at Kate-for the girl is very much like her father-we realize what Professor Ashton might have been. 
               God grant that her life may not be made so hard through want of sympathy! Though we admire these high-toned natures, and the spark of genius that goads them on-Heaven help them! And I think my readers will join in the prayer. Give me the Dutchman's stolidity of mind and purpose. If the path to fame is so literally strewn with briers and thistles, and the wages of intellect are suffering, better, far better, plod on in the beaten track than soar higher. Genius is a great gift; but if through her means a human soul is tortured to the death, the sacrifice is too great. 
               "Flore, you really must hurry more, or I shall leave you." Kate, who was far ahead, looked back at her sister. 
               "Kate, I think you are very unkind to go so fast. I can't keep up with you at all, and you are making every one look at you, your face is so red. Do stop!" 
               "Nonsense, come along." Kate took her sister's hand. "There, now, I will keep you in tow." 
               "I do wish you would let me be! See how you have rumpled my cuffs! mamma would not like it!" Florie's face was quite overcast, for she could not bear any detriment to her good looks. 
               "Poor mamma! I think I am a great trouble to her; sometimes I wish I were more like you, Florie. Here, take my cuffs, for a wonder they are smooth; I did not mean to tumble yours' So the exchange was made, Florence never thinking but what Kate should always consider her comfort. 
               "There is George Alston, Kate!" as a rosy-faced boy-he was only sixteen-made his way to the sisters. He was quite out of breath when he came up to them and took their books in charge. 
               "Hurry Florie on, George, she won't hurry for me, and I am afraid we will be late. Monsieur will be angry with me, though I should not care if it were not for the dicte. I don't like being late again, the girls will think I do it on purpose; for none of them like the blackboard, and I have been late every day this week, so have not had my share. You know Monsieur does not get time to correct all our slates, for we have such a large class, and the blackboard, being most prominent, has the first place." 
               "There goes the bell! Just in time. Thank you very much, George!" as the books were returned. 
                
               "Don't forget to-morrow, Kate; I will try to be here when you come out, so that we can talk about it;" and George Alston, after picking up a sprig of lemon verbena Kate had dropped, again said good-by. 
               George Alston was the only son of a near neighbor, whom the girls had known ever since they were children. He had always been Kate's champion, and devoted to her as long as she could remember. They were much alike in temperament, and sympathized in everything with each other; the boy had many bright day-dreams all confided to Kate, and by her encouraged and reveled in. They loved each other very dearly; and Kate, though she acknowledged a secret-love of taking down, as she called it, some of his boyish pride, was very proud of him at heart, and sympathized with him more than any one else, and George's love and faith in his little ladylove were very true. 
               The school-girls often teased Kate about her knight, as they called him; and Florie, who considered him rough-for he did not suit her more fastidious taste-was quite shocked at Kate's want of delicacy. Kate, however, only laughed, and said it was all nonsense! while at the same time she always wore George's ring, and was indignant if anything were said not in his favor. Mrs. Ashton troubled herself very little what her daughters did,-except in as much as they were well dressed, and gloved, and to outward appearance were everything they should be. Professor Ashton was too much absorbed to notice how they passed their time; though he told Kate she was getting too old for such nonsense, and should make George understand she had not so much time to waste. Still he was proud of the admiration both his daughters excited, and really liked the boy, and often told Kate he was a tine fellow; and as he never did anything decided, Kate's little romance continued on, for it was very dear to the girl's heart, and she thought much more of it than she should have done. 
               The truth was, Kate was not happy at home. Florence was everything to her mother, and Kate's companionship was not valued by her. Then she had to give up to her sister in everything, for Florence liked to have her own way, and her mother thought everything she did was right; and though Kate loved her sister dearly, still it was sometimes a great trial, when they thought differently, always to be obliged to yield. The girl often thought to herself, I do wish I had not always to wear pink dresses when I like blue so much better; why cannot mamma buy two dresses not alike but of the same color? For their mother bought their dresses without consulting them; and when they were purchased, Florence had her choice, so Kate seldom had her favorite color, as Florence liked blue, and nearly always selected it. 
               But there the same partiality was always shown: if Kate had one new dress, Florence had two; and as it sometimes happened when they went to any place of amusement (for New London though so secluded had its concerts and lectures) Florence took her choice of when she would go, and Kate went when Florence did not care about it, as they seldom both left their mother. Mrs. Ashton often said it was strange how little Kate cared for going out; but the truth was, she never had much chance of seeing what she wanted, and pride rebelled at the careless treatment; so she often said she did not care to go when she did care very much; though I hardly think it was as much of a sacrifice as it would have been under different circumstances. 
               There was not so much difference in the girls' ages; and in case of a duty to be done, Kate had more than her share, so naturally thought she should share equally with her sister in their pleasures. Kate was fourteen, and Florence two years older, and Florence, being anxious to leave school, put on a great many little airs, as girls of her age often do; so that she was not a pleasant companion for Kate, who was entirely unaffected. 
               Kate was left very much to fill up her time as she could out of school; and as George sympathized with her, and contributed to her pleasure more than any one, it was natural she should love and like to be with him. They would be together for hours talking and dreaming, as boys and girls will do; and it made a deeper impression on both their hearts than their friends had any idea of. Aquariums were then a new thing, and Kate was deeply interested in frogs and everything of the fish order; and the two friends went on long exploring walks, finding many treasures, and were very happy in each other. Kate loved the broad, Dwelling river, and the open country was a never-failing source of pleasure; then she had so many trials at home, and so little sympathy, that it was delightful to feel as though she had left all behind her for a time. 
               Every Saturday-for Saturday was their holiday-Kate went with George in his little boat across the river. It was delightful to he back dreamily, watching the water as it rippled sleepily around the little boat, and to admire the regular stroke of the oars. Then Kate liked to watch her companion; George never looked better than in his boating dress, with his fresh, white shirt and glowing face, for the boy's greatest beauty was is figure. He was a perfect young Hercules, with his great depth of chest, and broad, well-developed shoulders, so bespeaking strength, that she always felt safe with him. He laughed much too loud for Florence's more fastidious taste; but Kate never found him rough, and she gloried in his strength. 
               It was certainly a very pretty sight, the light boat with its lighter freight, George's dark eyes and dark-brown curls; his clean, white shirt was very becoming, and showed his figure to full advantage; and his sailor hat, with its broad black ribbon, just suited him. Kate, in her tiny hat, was opposite her companion; dipping her hand in and out of the water, occasionally shaking a large water-lily she held in his face. Her chintz dress was neat and fresh; and though the girl had brought a large umbrella to please her mother, it was folded composedly, in a state of rest, in the bottom of the boat with her large green veil, and Kate was rapidly being burnt as brown as a berry. 
               Way up the river they could see the little sailboats mere specks in the distance; and Kate had never been in a sail-boat, and was very anxious to go out in one. George had promised to take her, but never had done so, and Kate must go, or she would never be satisfied. So the boy and girl talked of the sail-boats and laughed at their own nonsense, and were very happy in their talk and in each other. 
               Then, when across the river, they would go for long rambles in the woods, and come home laden with flowers, and ferns, and very tired. It was a pretty sight to see them together; they were so happy in each other, and both so young and full of hope, so confident of all this world could give, not knowing a doubt of each other. George's sunburnt healthy skin, and clear, dark eyes, would be glowing in the fresh morning breeze, which took strange liberties with Kate's carefully-arranged hair. His little sailor hat and clean, white shirt, liberally displayed under the short, blue jacket, just suited his figure, and were very becoming; while Kate, in her fresh chintz dress and tiny straw hat, walked on as untiringly as her companion: every now and then her merry laugh joining with, and echoing her friend's. 
               Innocent happy dreams, and glorious prophecies of her companion's future, she confided to him, never thinking anything too great or glorious to be realized by him. The morning breeze and stately trees that Kate loved could have told many a story of pure girlish love, hope, and enthusiasm, for they were her only confidants; and the green veil that had been in the bottom of the boat, and that her mother had enjoined her to take with her, was hanging in a string on her arm; while her fresh, pure face was raised uncovered to her companion, as Kate had entirely forgotten her complexion. It was delightful to linger round the old fort, talking and dreaming; Kate was sure George would have acted just as bravely as the noble dead whose names were written on the stone tablet. It was very pleasant to think of his doing some great deed that would live for all eternity. 
               Sometimes they would meet the hermit, for the little village of Groton had its mystery. A man who lived alone with his servant, evidently a gentleman, but one who never willingly spoke to any one, or was known by the inhabitants of the place. His name was Smith,-Henry Smith. And in that numerous family the name had been swallowed up, none of his many relatives stepping forward to claim him. He had a small cottage of only four rooms, far away from the inhabited part of Groton. Here he lived with his man, who was almost reserved as his master, content to keep the house in some kind of order, and do what cooking they needed. Possibly attracted by George and Kate's bright faces, this hermit, with the prosaic name, met them once or twice at the old fort; and, finally, one day finding Kate's glove, which she had lost, he kept and returned it to her. This was the commencement of their acquaintance, which ripened rapidly; and every day the hermit's thin, lank figure, and pale, haggard face, would be seen restlessly wandering round the ruins, possibly watching for his young companions. 
               This is how the Saturdays were passed; and though it was a very lazy way, it was a pleasant one, and the boy and girl enjoyed their holiday thoroughly. And this was what George meant when he told Kate to remember to-morrow. Then, too, it was very pleasant when she at last went out in the sail-boat with George. She never felt afraid, he was so strong and such a good sailor, as she acknowledged in her heart, though she never told him so; for, as the girl thought, men are always vain enough without any praise, so I had better not say all I think, for fear of spoiling him. George liked Kate better than any one as a companion; for he told her there was some pleasure in having her with him, she did not scream and make a fuss as most girls would have done when the boat gave a lurch, but did not mind being a little wet, and was not at all afraid. So they took many sails together. 
               They would go out when the river was covered with white-caps, and the old sailors shook their heads. The girl sat by the tiller, and steered as her companion directed; and how they laughed when the white foam came up in their faces,-their sense of danger only adding to the excitement, and made them enjoy it more! Kate was often wet to the skin and ashamed to walk home; but then she could manage, with Auntie's assistance, to get in the back door and so upstairs to take off her wet things, which were well dried and put in order by her old nurse. 
               Her goings and comings were but little noticed, and it was very well it was so, for no doubt she would have received a good scolding, as I don't doubt but what she deserved, for it was rather a dangerous amusement. But, then, as she told her more timid sister, there was danger in everything, and she had so much pleasure she was willing to take the risk; and, though she was not very good, she was not afraid to die,-she was not so happy as to care to live. Then her heart would reproach her when she thought how very happy she had been with George. 
               Kate would be laughing a few minutes before, and so happy, that coming home was always dreaded; there was no one to sympathize with her at home; papa was so much away and always busy, and her mother never noticed her except to scold her. Then Florie was not agreeable if she did not have her own way all the time; and as Kate had a will of her own, and liked to have her way, too, it was a great trial always to give up to her sister. Then Kate would think of George, and be comforted. Her father loved her, too, and she did have very nice times boating. "May-be, if her mother loved her more, she would be more careful of her; and it would be a trial not to go boating as she did now; so may-be, after all, it was just as well." Kate would sigh at the thought. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               "AUNTIE, I am perfectly drenched. Is mamma home?" Kate Ashton's rosy face and tumbled hair made rather a sorry picture in old colored Auntie's neat kitchen. 
               "No, Miss Kate, she and Miss Florie have been gone visitin' this last hour or better. Bless us and save us! but you are wet, honey! It is a caution to see you, Miss Kate! Laws, chile! but you are a sight. Bin out in that pesky boat, no doubt?" 
               "Oh, Auntie! we had the most glorious sail in the world. The river was just covered with white-caps, and it was as much as we could do to keep the boat right side up. But how we flew,-it was glorious!" Kate's eyes sparkled, while Auntie shook her head ruefully. 
               "Bin to see that crazy trash, now, I shouldn't wonder?" She pointed to the window. 
               "He is not any more crazy than you are. I wonder you are so unkind." Her face was indignant. "I think he has had some great trouble, and that is why he likes to live alone." Kate was warm in defense of her friend. 
               "Well, then, what they call him hermit for, Miss Kate? Even the little boys laughs when they see him come. I do wonder you and Mas'r George haven't more wisdom than to run after sich rubbish." She sniffed indignantly. "It is a blessin' your ma's not in, or we'd never hear the end on it; and it's mighty well, too, you've got on that ole frock, for it's pretty well done for, I'm a thinkin'. Now you'd better get them wet things off in a jiffy for fear o' your ma comin' in on us, for we'd get it and there's no mistake. Run up-stairs, honey, and I'll have some ginger tea in no time, for fear of the wettin'." 
               Old Auntie was a very important member in the Ash ton household; she had lived with Professor Ashton's mother during her lifetime, and at her death came to nurse Mas'r John's children; and then, when the children grew old enough to take care of themselves, had gone back to the kitchen, where she was much more at home than any place else. 
               Auntie was much more intelligent than most of her class, and was quite an oracle in New London. She had a sovereign contempt for her race, which she expressed by calling them black niggers, though it would be hard to find any darker than she was herself. She was perfectly devoted to Kate and Professor Ashton, who she thought were perfection. Mrs. Ashton always put her out, as she expressed it; and, though she was respectful, she was never cordial, and was always cross for the whole day, when the missus came for one of her reddens-up, as she called it. She did not see as much of Florence as Kate; for Florence had not grown up with her old nurse as Kate had. 
               Florence was one of those pattern little girls we so seldom see; she would sit for hours holding a doll, and talking to it, perfectly satisfied for the time. Such children are a great comfort to their parents, they give so little trouble; for, from the time Florence was a little child, she had always been presentable any time her mother could call her in to see visitors who chanced to call; while poor Kate was always in disgrace, with muddy boots and tumbled dress, and it took so long to make her presentable, that the little scarecrow was never sent for. 
               Kate never had liked dolls, but she liked climbing fences and digging in the garden; and then she always had quantities of pets. The child was nearly always in disgrace, though her mother never heard of half her misfortunes; anything Auntie could do to shield her she did, for Kate was her darling, and she thought no one as intelligent or good looking. Auntie often said, in her indignation, for she bitterly resented Mrs. Ashton's injustice to Kate, "Miss Florie had no call to plume herself, she was that mean somehow dirt wouldn't stick to her as it did to her child, for it was as true as preachin' that Miss Kate was no half grit, but real true Ashton way through to the back bone." 
               Over and over again Auntie told fibs for Kate's benefit; not white lies, or anything that you could palliate, but lies of the very blackest dye, and by the dozen, which was worse; for Auntie liked to make a clean job of it, so she said. Now we all know if we tell one untruth we are obliged to tell a dozen to shield it; so, for every scrape of Kate's, Auntie told a dozen, more or less, and actually chuckled over them as if she had done something very commendable. 
               Now this is dreadful, particularly when we reflect that Auntie was a member of the Methodist Church, and considered one of the shining lights by her colored brethren; for she had a good voice, and could out-sing and groan them all. She would pound with her feet, while she declared she was a miserable sinner, until she shook all the brethren near her. Elder Martin said, in enthusiasm, "it was a privilege to see sich piety as sister Burton's, who was far gone in glory's path to the good land o' Canaan, where the wicked cease of troubling and the weary are at rest." 
               Now this is all wrong, when we think that Auntie would be mending or pressing a torn dress for Kate, so that her mother should not know, and all the time singing about glory, and Canaan, and pounding her feet to get in good practice for the Sabbath; while every now and then she would stop to chuckle or laugh over some fib neatly told, to save little Kate, and keep clear of the old one, as she called Kate's mother. Strange, inconsistent creatures, we all are. Poor old Auntie would tell her mistress a fib, and then pound the dresser with all her might, while she assured her dishes she longed to go to glory. We must, however, give her her due by saying she was strictly conscientious in every other respect but that one, and would have suffered any penalty rather than have told an untruth to save herself. 
               The children were both forbidden by their mother to go to the kitchen; and Florence, to whom it was no deprivation, stayed away, but Kate slipped down-stairs every chance she had. Often the naughty little thing would laugh immoderately as she darted in among the kettles and pans in the kitchen closet on hearing her mother's step; while Auntie stood before the door and beat her eggs as hard as she could or would dust a neighboring table, grinning all the time, and making as much noise as possible, to drown the low laugh Kate could not restrain. Then, when Mrs. Ashton was gone, they would talk over and enjoy the escape and sense of danger. It was almost equal to the Gun-powder Plot, though not as alarming in its results; and Auntie, for the time being, was in her way a good Catesby, and Kate a Guy Fawkes. 
               Now this was very bad training for a child, I don't deny; but they took so much comfort, and the child was never happy with her mother, so who would blame her? Certainly not Auntie, when she felt her warm arms round her neck, and the pleading, tearful, child's face begging to be helped out of some new trouble, for the little one's love was very dear to her. 
               "I am coming in, Auntie, though I am not dressed, for I never could get my hair dry upstairs. Look! I could not fix it, it is so damp." Kate held up her dripping locks for her old friend's inspection. 
               "Set you down close to the range, honey, and drink your tea while I am sortin' them towels." 
               "I wish mamma and Florie visited every day, this is so comfortable." She drew nearer to the fire, enjoying the warmth. "I am getting too large for the closet now, Auntie; is it not a pity?" Kate laughed. "Would not it be nice to sit in petticoats and sacks all day and eat cakes and ice-cream?" 
               "Laws, honey!" 
               "It would be so nice to live in a house made of sugar-plums and chocolate, and be able to take a bite whenever you wanted." 
               "Bless us, chile! And what would you do in case of rain?" 
                
               "Why, I suppose I would get pretty wet, as I did to-day. Auntie, I gave George your respects, and the little cake like mine, and he said you were right jolly." 
               "Mas'r George is a real pert one. Miss Kate; you'll find mighty few to walk the beam and stand up to him, I'm a thinkin.' "Auntie shook her head in approval, much to Kate's delight. 
               "I think he is very handsome, don't you?" Kate looked in the fire, while a well-pleased smile played round her lips. 
               "Bless you, soul! if he ain't! And so brave." Auntie clapped her hands and chuckled with delight. "It's as true as I'm a tellin' you, honey, he never feels a hate, no matter what turns up. He is real prime; don't you tell this nigger, for it is as true as I am a tellin' it." 
               "He is very bright, too, Auntie; and some day-who knows?-he may get a consulship, or be a governor,-who knows?" 
               "To which?" Auntie looked puzzled. "Miss Kate had such a power of larnin', she beat her all to flinders. I am goin' to make sugar cakes, would you like to bake yourn, honey? It's been so long since you had a han' at 'em." 
               "Yes, indeed!" Kate was all alert in a minute; and soon the little cake was on the stove in its tiny pan, and she was busy watching its progress. 
               It is a very earnest face that is looking down in the coals and watching the cake. The child is growing fast, and will soon be a woman we see, as we look at her eager face so calm and peaceful now, building castles in the fire, for there is a sweet smile hovering round her half-opened lips. One hand is holding back her hair, and the other has a fork in it ready for the cake. Old Auntie shakes her head and sighs when she looks at her so much engrossed, and feels that she is slipping far away from her, and that she can never be the same to her as she was when a child. She don't like the change, as she calls it, the workin's of the spirit; she would rather have her back as she used to be in the pleasant old days when she would sit quietly and hear about Jupiter, who jumped up and snuffed the moon, and the hearty man who went fishing and caught a mackerel. Queer, quaint old sayings, which have no meaning, but delight childish ears more than if they had. Auntie shook her head sadly as she watched Kate, and used the rolling-pin with redoubled vigor; for the girl is perfectly absorbed, and her cake is burning brown. 
               "What is it, honey." Her hand was laid on Kate's shoulder. 
               "I was thinking, Auntie, I would like to be good and great, and do something glorious. I would like to be like Horatius, and defend the bridge against a host! Or I would like to be Joan of Arc, and be burnt at the stake. Or I would like to die as Lawrence did, and never give up the ship." 
               "But don't you think it would be a deal more comfortable to live, honey?" Auntie shook her head sadly, as she felt in truth the child was drifting away from her, more and more on the sea of life. 
               "I was reading of the Spanish Inquisition, where men were tortured, and never revealed their secrets. Was not that glorious? They had images filled with knives, that when you got near them would hold you tight and cut you all to pieces. Then they put out their eyes, but still they never told. Oh, Auntie, that was glorious!" Kate's eyes sparkled. 
               "Patience, chile, but it is a caution the way you goes on! Where's the good of bein' so treated? I don't see the wisdom; it is a deal more comfortable to live sensible-like. I've seen you through many shines, honey, but you beat this nigger all hollow now." 
               "But, Auntie, would not you like to be tortured and die for your country?" 
               "Heavens on airth, no!"' Auntie quite lost her patience. "I wouldn't like no sich actions, Miss Kate. It start's to reason there ain't no sense in kickin' up them kind of shines, and tearin' of yourself up, and bein' killed for nothin' on airth. I'm s'prised at you, Miss Kate, to talk sich rubbish. I thought you was a goin' to be a real sensible sort of woman, and not go gallavantin'. You favors your pa more and more every day, bless him! He is true grit, and no mistake. But, honey, he is a man; and a man is a man, and a woman is a woman. I am not so right but what I may be righter; but sich ways is not for sich as you; women folks have enough to tend to without gallavantin'." She paused quite out of breath with her earnestness. 
               "Yes, but women have souls as well as men." Kate's eyes sparkled. "I don't mean that I would fight an army, for I couldn't; but you would not know what I meant if I told you, so there is no use in telling you." 
               This is all very high-flown and ridiculous, no doubt; but, then, if a little enthusiasm will help us on in the true path, why grudge it? We will see, as my story goes on, if Kate's warm and earnest heart, and childish dream of suffering and being strong, did not in part blend in the girl's life. 
               "Chile, what lovely hair you has got." Auntie proudly smoothed the wavy, brown tresses as they shone in the fire-light. "You are a real Ashton, Miss Kate; a different sort of folks, I am a thinkin', from the Conways; and the way you do take the shine out of Miss Florie is a caution. Missus is a nice lady." Auntie looked as though she had been saying persimmon for a month, and had not got the taste out of her mouth. "But her folks, Miss Kate, can no more stand up to the Ashtons than a chiney to an ole earthen pot. You can't make a silken purse out of a sow's ear, and it is the same wi' folks. Miss Florie has a nice pinky skin, and she do think a sight of her duds; but we all knows 'pride goeth afore a fall, and a speerity spirit afore destruction.' 
               "I knows a power of Scripter, Miss Kate; but somehow it don't always come out clear. You should see them black niggers in Bethel a speerin' at me. Why, none on 'em could take the length of my heel in larnin'." Auntie chuckled delightedly, conscious of her superiority. "What, call have them ole doctors and wise folks to rile theirselves if this nigger don't always walk the beam? Bless their poor ole bones, all covered up and rottin' long afore you or I ever had any call of livin'. They did write a heap of stuff anyhow, and I don't believe a bit on it; I could tell them a deal more sense any day; and sich talk is made for them as don't know no better. The idee of tell in' a body if your right han' made you mad to chop it off and pitch it away on the dung-heap, and then to do the same with t' other. Now any fool knows better nor that! My sakes! wouldn't there be a load of paupers if folks had no more call nor to take that rubbish? Why, honey, the almshouse wouldn't hold 'em, but be chuck full to bustin'. Bless you, chile! I've been mad enough at my han's loads of times; but if I'd hack at 'em every time they're contrary, where'd be the good? I'd like to be acquainted with it. No, no. You go long, black nigger, you'll not ketch this chile nappin', I'm a thinkin'." Auntie shook her head argumentatively. 
               "Miss Kate. Why, where on airth has the chile gone to?" She laid her hand on her young mistress's shoulder. "Bless the chile, she does nothin' but study." 
               "Auntie, I do wish I were more like Florie; I think I would be happier, and mamma would love me better." 
               "Now, Miss Kate, you jest hold on. Don't you know you has a heap more larnin' than Miss Florie any day? Wisdom is better nor rubies, and all things in this wicked world couldn't hold a dip to it. Not the poorest, little, mean, penny dip. Solomon was a wise king, honey." Auntie appeared quite pleased when Kate laughed at her peculiar way of quoting Scripture. 
               "Then, Miss Kate, Mas'r George wouldn't have no concern for you if you was like Miss Florie; and then there's that crazy trash across the river you thinks so much on, what would come of him? Then what would your pa do, and this ole black woman?" She raised her apron to her eyes. "Miss Florie don't care a hate what comes to this poor old black woman. So wake up, honey. Bless us! and save us! if there ain't the Missus, and you wid your hair all flyin' wild. Run as if ole Sam were at your heels, honey, and I'll keep the Missus here argumentin' while you sprigs up a bit." 
               "Has Miss Kate come in, Dinah?" 
               "Bless your soul! yes, Missie." 
               "The last two words will answer the purpose without any superfluity." 
               "Patience, ma'am! I don know what a fluity is?" 
               "I hope Miss Kate has not been out in that boat, Dinah? We had quite a heavy shower. Florence dear, did you get wet?" 
               "Miss Kate's room is a picter, ma'am." Auntie would have made a good lawyer, she evaded troublesome questions so neatly, but always kept the strong point of her argument in view. She had heard Mrs. Ashton scold Kate about the untidiness of her room, and tell her it must be put in order that day; and old Auntie, who saw Kate was in one of her dreams, and did not hear her mother, resolved "that she would not keep the chile in and spoil her holiday for no nonsense of that sort; not if she know'd herself. She'd just tidy the room up herself a bit, for dear knows the little honey had not much peace, she was so pecked at by the old one." 
               Rather a disrespectful way to speak of her mistress; but Auntie's ideas of respect were very vague. She often said to herself, "Missus might do, she'd no doubt, for she looked every inch a lady; but it beat her how Mas'r John had ever happened to court her, she was that full of her notions and contrarities. She had no call to demean herself to that Conway truck, she'd just come to take care of Mas'r John and them chil'en. Missus might look out for herself, she had no call to rile herself in her favor, and she wasn't a goin' to do it; not if she know'd herself! No, indeed! Miss Kate was a true Ashton, and none of that Conway trash, which was as clear as day, as any one could see by her speerity look. So she had better look out, for the little honey shouldn't be put on; she didn't care a hate and would stick at nothin', but hang on to the death, as the little picaninnie did to the gum-tree, when he see'd the big black bear a lookin' up with teeth all set, white and gleamin', ready to munch him down in one big gobble." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               HAVING introduced the Ashton family to the reader, I will endeavor to bring them together in one chapter, so that we may better understand their every-day life; and I don't know but what a person's conduct at table is the best guide and ensample of birth and breeding, and is as good a test of character as any other. 
               It is a lovely sunny morning in early spring, one of God's own days; and Professor Ashton's garden is refreshing in the sunshine, with its well-kept grass and early spring flowers. The air is laden with their perfume, which is wafted into the professor's sunny, neat dining-room, where the family are seated at breakfast. 
               "Kate, do tell your sister how Miss Cleveland's dress was trimmed. I thought of having one made like it for her." 
               "Yes, mamma,-do wait a minute. Ich war geliebt worden, Du warst geliebt worden, Er war geliebt worden: Wir waren geliebt worden, Ihr waret geliebt worden, Sie waren geliebt worden. There, I know it; I guess I won't miss that again in a hurry. That is the pluperfect tense of the passive verb Geliebt worden-To be loved." Kate, as she spoke, put her book down on the table in triumph. 
               "Katherine Ashton, what do you mean, bringing that book to the table again this morning? I told you yesterday I would not have you do it again." 
               "Excuse me, mamma, I forgot; forgive me this once." Mrs. Ashton's ruffled features were not so easily smoothed. "Yesterday, like a ninny, I could not remember that horrid pluperfect tense, it was the first time I have missed this month,-was it not too bad? I am sure I won't forget again. What was it, mamma?" 
               "Can you remember how Miss Cleveland's dress was trimmed?" 
               "Indeed I can't, it was such a mass of flounces and ribbons." 
               "I might have known you would not know before I asked you; you never remember anything that is of practical use." Mrs. Ashton's face flushed angrily, and she turned to her eldest daughter. "If you had been with me, dear, you would have known, but Kate is just like her father. Goodness, Mr. Ashton! Kate, do make your father stop eating with his knife; I wish he would cut himself, so as to make him remember." 
               "Poor papa and I are your black sheep, mamma, both crowded in the same boat to sink or swim together. Aren't we, papa?" Kate lovingly patted the hand that was within her reach. 
               "What is it, my dear?" 
               "Papa, don't eat with your knife, it is not pretty. Papa, Mr. Harz marked out wissen in my exercise yesterday and put kennen instead; can you tell me the reason why he did it?" 
               "Yes, my dear, I think you must have made a mistake in the use of the word: wissen is used in the sense of savoir, to know; and kennen in the sense of connaitre, to be acquainted with. Do you understand me?" 
                
               "Of course I do: I do wish I had you to teach me always. Mr. Harz took a long time to explain it, and I knew as much before he commenced as I did after his explanation, he uses such terribly long words. Thank goodness, I have a dear, old, bright papa, who is not at all proud of his learning, so makes everything easy to understand; you are a jewel, papa. Mein Herr, ich trinke auf ihre Gesundheit." Kate laughingly raised her coffee cup to her lips. 
               "Katherine, I do wish your father and yourself would put your books aside at the table at least; I am sure I have a right to expect that." 
               "Certainly, mamma." Kate tossed the much-abused book to one side. "Where is the harm, mamma, if papa helps me to put my verbs away with my bread and butter? It is the only time I ever get a chance to talk to him." 
               "There are times and seasons for all things, as I have often told you, and the table is not a proper place for study." 
               "But then, mamma, what am I to do? I understand my verbs much better than dress, which Florie and yourself are so fond of talking about; and then, mamma, you select all my clothes, so where would be the use? Wait till I am older and may-be I won't be quite such an owl, and possibly the verbs will be of some use after all. A diamond is no less a diamond when it is in its rough state, though not as beautiful as when it is cut. Try to think, mamma, that I am your rough diamond. Florie is a stone of pure Water, all cut and polished." Kate smiled brightly, and nodded to her sister. 
               "I am afraid I would not improve by cutting, mamma, I am too full of flaws; but I may fill in some odd corner some day, and help to smooth it out. Papa is our true brilliant and not to be surpassed; but the brilliant's setting is not good. Oh, papa! what a dreadfully shabby coat. Look, here is almost a hole." Kate ran her hand through a thin place in the cloth, making a hole indeed. "You have another coat, you dear old owl, and you must put it on and make yourself beautiful." She put down her knife and fork to give her father's hand a squeeze. 
               "Katherine Ashton, look what you are doing! Actually almost upsetting my cup! Take your seat properly, or leave the table entirely if you have finished your breakfast." Mrs. Ashton's face was very cloudy as she turned away from her daughter and finished her breakfast in silence; or when she talked it was to Florence in an undertone, making Kate and her father thoroughly uncomfortable. 
               She was jealous of Kate's being so far ahead of Florence in her studies, so did nothing to encourage her. Why could not she, as a true woman should, fill in the broken links in her chain of life? Take some interest in her husband's and daughter's labors; and let Kate see she was pleased with her good reports and progress at school? Not check the girl always in her dreams and aspirations, and talk of dress and different matters she was not interested in, until she felt wearied out and discouraged. If she had only taken some interest in Kate's life, and treated her awkwardness kindly, she would have been won, and not have had that hopeless, lost feeling want of sympathy and constant rebuff brings. We know the old maxim, "Constant dropping will wear away stone." A person will lose all hope and wish for trying when they are always in the wrong. 
               How often we see this in life, parent and child entirely unsuited to each other; constantly rubbing against each other's rough corners, making life a perfect jar. Kate often felt, when a little despondent, as though she would give anything, to get away from her mother. "Anywhere, anywhere, out of the world," just for a little rest. Goethe says, "That you must always show a man you value him according to his aspirations, and not to his shortcomings." If Mrs. Ash ton had only practiced Goethe's maxim, how much happier she would have made both her husband and daughter. But, as I have said, they were an ill-matched couple. Mrs. Ashton never could feel with her husband and Kate, her brain had not attained the size theirs had. She was happy in her dress and more trifling matters; and Florence, who did not like study, was consequently more of a companion for her. 
               The dove never can soar with the eagle, though it is just as good a bird in its humble way; and this was Mrs. Ashton's trouble. The great misfortune, however, was that the dove and eagle never should have been matched, they only interfered with each other's sphere of usefulness. I do not believe in the Old School Presbyterian idea of predestination, though I think there is a great deal of truth in it if we simply consider ourselves passive agents. Some people are born with peculiar temptations and failings that others do not inherit; by being simply passive agents, and letting things take care of themselves, they will grow and grow in magnitude; it is only by crucifying the flesh, and fighting down the old Adam in us, that the true growth is attained. 
               How often people can make themselves entirely different from what they would naturally be. I heard a minister of the gospel say he was born a drunkard, and it was only through the grace of God he was kept as he was. The man spoke in all sincerity, and he was a good man, too; the old taint was there, but it was pruned down and so covered with flowers of beauty and sweetness that it was entirely hidden. Give it room to grow and it would make giant strides; but fought down and kept back, how insignificant it was; and who would say that in the end that man would not have his reward? 
               Kate had a warm, loving heart; she was a girl any mother might have been proud of; and with her father she was her own true self. I don't think any one would have wanted to have her changed if they had seen them together. Mrs. Ashton did not see below the surface the deep, pure stream welling there; and I don't think she would have appreciated its worth if she had. With her mother Kate was always constrained, and never herself; she had been told so often how awkward she was, and always compared with her sister, who she was so entirely unlike, that she felt out of place, and stayed away from both mother and sister to dream by herself. 
               Mrs. Ashton reminds me of a description I had of Bern, in a letter I received not a long time since from Europe. The person writing spoke of one peculiarity about the place. She said the first thing that greeted her on entering the town was an enormous statue of a bear. Everywhere there were bears; live bears, and stone bears, and bears of all shapes and sizes. So that you would have thought a bear had won a great battle, or had accomplished something more than human. Nothing of the kind. Only one day somebody killed a big bear. It was strange they could immortalize the great beast so; had not they some warrior, painter, or sculptor to take his place? It appeared so puerile and childish a whole people immortalizing a dumb brute. This was Mrs. Ashton's failing; dress and propriety of deportment were her idols; and because Kate had a more lofty standard, they clashed oftener than mother and daughter should have done. 
               "Florie, have you finished? It is so late, I must go." Florence did not answer, for Kate was in disgrace, and mamma, by a succession of little sighs, was showing her disapproval. So Florie put her knife in an exact position with her fork, and, gathering her skirt daintily round her, left the table. 
               "Get your things together, Florie, I will be ready in a minute; but, first, I must not let this blessed baby go in his old coat, as he would like to." Kate gave papa a kiss, and ran up-stairs, soon returning with the coat she wanted. 
               "Now I am going to give this to the first poor man I see, or you will be putting it on all the time; may I?" 
               "Yes, my dear." Her father submitted quietly to the transformation, while Kate rummaged his pockets, and transferred his possessions from one coat to the other, laughing, and teasing him all the time. 
               Mrs. Ashton, meanwhile, was watching her daughter hopelessly, with hands clasped, as if in despair, and the face of a martyr; it was aggravating to look at her, particularly when, as in Kate's place, she was not conscious of doing anything very heinous. Mrs. Ashton indulged in these scenes so often that Kate had fallen into the way of saying, "it is only mamma;" and, when contrasted with her more noisy scoldings, Kate rather liked her quiet reproof, for there was more chance of getting away soon. 
               "If mamma only thought I did something nicely, how much easier it would be." She often longed and waited, and did all she could for one word of approval, but it never came. "If mamma would only remember the old Sabbath-school maxim, Little words of kindness, little deeds of love, make this earth a heaven If she would only give me one tithe of what she gives Florie; but I suppose I am a hopeless case, and such people cannot expect to be treated like other mortals." Kate would laugh uneasily. "I must take a leaf out of Florie's book, though I must say I would not like to take the whole book; I don't think I would care to live to look pretty, and nothing much else" 
               "Florie, are you ready?" And after giving her father a warm hug, and receiving a cold kiss from her mother, the two girls started for school. 
               "What a glorious morning it is, Flore,-just the day for a sail!" She looked at the smooth river longingly. 
               "I wish you would call me Florence, Kate, or Florie, if you must have a nickname; mamma has told you a great many times not to call me Flore, it is so hoydenish, and I don't like anything hoydenish. You are so peculiar, Kate, you never will be popular with gentlemen; I don't believe you ever will be married." 
               "Would not that be a fearful consummation, Flore-excuse me-"Florence?" Her eyes sparkled with mischief. 
               "You are a strange girl, Kate, and as full of notions as papa. You would not like to be an old maid, would you?" 
               "You don't think I am getting so old, Florie? I am not quite fifteen. I don't think my chances are entirely gone yet, do you?" 
               "Don't be silly, Kate: you know what I mean. If you go on in the way you are doing now, you never will be popular." 
               "That would be dreadful to think of. But, seriously, I would not like to be an old maid, that is, if I could get the one I wanted; for I think people are much happier married than single,-it gives them an object in life. But then, Florie, I don't think marriage is the beginning and end of life, by any manner of means; I would rather be the most disagreeable old maid you can conceive of than married to a man I did not love with my whole soul. Marriage is a lottery, after all." 
               "That is the way you always talk, working yourself up into such a state of excitement; I so wish you had more moderation, Kate, it is exceedingly unladylike to be so demonstrative; such an intense state of feeling is very disagreeable: it only does for a novel; and broken hearts are truly romantic." Florence smiled scornfully. "I would be satisfied with a man I could like moderately, one who would give me a beautiful house, and plenty of money to spend. I should like diamonds, too, and a box at the opera. It is considerably more comfortable than your love in a cottage, Kate; I don't think I ever could marry a poor man." 
               "I don't believe you will ever love any one very much, Florie; it is not your nature." Kate was quite serious. "I do wish, sometimes, you would try and understand me-some sisters have so much comfort together, Florie. I don't believe in love in a cottage, or broken hearts, any more than you do. If I were in love with a man who happened to be well off, I would be very glad for his sake as well as my own; I would not tell him to throw all his money out of the window, so that I could wear calico dresses, and live in one room. I never would marry for money, but if it came with love it would be very well; and if not, I would do the best I could without it." 
               "That is just like you, Kate, with your romance; it is such a pity, as mamma says, that you have not more practical good sense. I suppose if you did not get the dear object you would break your heart!" 
               "Florie, how dreadfully you misunderstand me!" There was a hopeless look in the girl's face. "I am not at all romantic, and I have as much contempt as you have for what you mean by a broken heart. If I did not get the man I loved I would not break my heart, but I would never have any one else, just for the sake of being married. I don't think there is such a thing as a broken heart, and if so, it is not worth grieving for; a person's life may be changed by some great sorrow, and they may lose all that makes life pleasant, but it does not kill them. A heart that will give up without one struggle must be very weak, and of not much value; anything that is really good of its kind may bend easily, but not break; and broken hearts are only another name for weakness and selfishness. If I could not have just what I wanted, I would try my best to be good and great, which is the next best thing to being happy. Some metals come out of the fire purer than when they go in, and I would like to be one of that kind." 
               "You talk like an old woman, Kate; I don't know where you get your ideas from,-you never were a child." 
               "I don't think I ever was a child, Florie." The girl's little, low, uneasy laugh was again heard. "Mamma never petted and spoiled me as she does you, and dear papa is so busy, I have plenty of time to think. Girls have their dreams, and I have often thought if I ever were married I must respect the man as much as I loved him; Be must be every inch a man; I don't care for personal appearance, or anything else, as much as that one thing. I could manage to struggle on with a man who was poor if I loved and respected him; but it would kill all life in me if I were married to a man I did not respect, even if his wealth were countless." 
               "I believe you would do it, Kate.'5 Florence looked admiringly at her sister. 
               "I think I would, Florie; I have dreamt so much of my old world heroes that they have become a part of my life. How much you lose, Florie, in not caring for books as papa and I do." 
               "I don't know, Kate." Florence laughed. "I for my part prefer to take the easier path. You absorb all the romance of the family." 
               "You can't take the easy path. Florie, if you want to do right, you will always find plenty of thorns in your way. I don't believe in people going out of their way to make trouble,-that is tempting God's providence; but if you look around you, you will find plenty to do, and it is only a craven spirit that shirks duty." 
               "Kate, I don't think it is any wonder we do not get along well together." Florence laughed again. "I don't know where you get all your fancies from." 
               "I think a great deal more than you do, Florie, and sometimes I feel as though I never would be very happy,-I feel everything so much more deeply than other people; but I should not preach, particularly when I need a good lecture myself. Do you know, I can't find my handkerchief. I must have given it to papa, or left it at home. I do wish I were not so careless! There goes the bell, and there is little Emma Rose waiting for the map I promised to draw her." 
               "Here, Emma, I did as well as I could." Kate hurried in, laughing and talking to her schoolmates, while she swung her hat in her hand. "Papa is coming to give us a lecture the last hour,-won't that be pleasant? He has a great many ferns, and we won't have any Miss Moore to-day. Aren't you glad, Letty?" Kate linked her arm in one of her classmate's, and the noisy throng hurried into the school-room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               MRS. ASHTON had one sister living in New London, whom she saw a great deal of, unfortunately for the rest of the family; for Mrs. Ashton was often led by her advice when it would have been better to have decided for herself, as Mrs. Judson, though she was very fond of giving advice, never practiced what she preached. 
               Mr. Judson called himself a lawyer, though none of his relatives knew exactly what his business was, he kept his affairs so shrouded in mystery. He was one of the most disagreeable men you can possibly imagine; and was so stiff that you expected to hear his bones creak when he moved. I think he made a contract for pokers with the hardware men, and swallowed all that came to New London; for it was a noticeable fact that there was a great scarcity of that article in the place, and if you looked at his figure you could easily realize what an amount of metal it would take to bring it to its present state of rigidity. He was one of those men whose shirt collars are always garroting them; and after examining his neck, bound in the closest of stocks, you felt like imitating a Chinese mandarin, and nodding your head forever in delight at the feeling of freedom. 
               Lawyers have a rather slippery reputation; at least Dickens has taught us to think so. I do not intend to vouch for them, though I know there are good and bad people in every profession in life. Mr. Judson, however, with all due deference for the profession, was one of the slippery kind, which you could very well understand in meeting the man on the street. He never looked you fully in the face, but always out of the corner of his eyes; and if by crossing the street, or slipping into some convenient doorway, he could avoid you, he would most certainly do it. 
               There was another peculiarity about him that I have never seen in anyone else, and hardly know how to define; he was subject to attacks of the nose. Now my readers will, no doubt, be lost in a sea of maze, and will wonder what I mean, so that I shall have to explain more clearly. It was called cold; but it certainly had a truly remarkable effect on that one organ of sense which I have never met with in any one else. I have seen Mr. Judson for a whole consecutive evening grasp that important feature tightly between his finger and thumb; occasionally varying the operation by relaxing one nostril to be regaled with a small bottle of hartshorn. I am afraid you will hardly yet realize what these attacks of the nose were; but can you imagine how unpleasant it would be to listen to any one keeping up a conversation while this one feature was irritated into a state of apoplexy? 
               Besides this peculiarity, Mr. Judson had a firm belief in the grandeur of his family. He had only to wink and the first of the land would bow at his summons. Fortunately for his peace of mind he never had winked, so the true blood still waited his will. You can understand a person cherishing such an idea would not well bear ridicule; so Mrs. Ashton watched her husband and Kate, who were the unruly ones, and laughed weakly when this august person occasionally unbent at his own jokes. Poor Mrs. Ashton's little laugh was very faint, for it was hard to feel mirthful, the jokes being so poor, and so often repeated, that they were quite threadbare of any point they had ever possessed. 
               You can understand what a peculiar companion he would be, what a regular kill-joy; for these attacks of the nose consumed six months of the entire year-that is, during any cold weather. Therefore any conversation, though it might be amusing to a stranger for a time, was unbearable to those who were brought into constant intercourse. 
               Mr. Judson, as I said, prided himself on his family; and, as we often see in such cases, with very little foundation. True worth always finds plenty of admirers to proclaim its value, and it is only the sham thing that requires constant puffing to keep its balance. 
               Mr. Judson's father, so rumor said, was at one time a prominent hatter in one of the large cities. The old man made his fortune and left for Europe, where he passed the remainder of his life; and his son fondly hoped that the blot on his family escutcheon was obliterated, and that no one knew the filthy channel through which his wealth had passed. 
               There is always some little bird to whistle the song down to future generations. If people were only content to be quiet and let well alone, they would find no one would trouble them; but if you will wear a better coat than your neighbors, and pride yourself on your gay plumage, you must bear the consequence, for you will always find plenty to peck holes in it. This was the case with the Judsons. They were so very proud and exclusive, and had so much trouble in finding any one equal to associate with, that finally people let them alone in their exclusiveness. Exclusiveness is very cheap, and easily attained; just shut yourself in, and make yourself disagreeable to your neighbors, and they will let you "alone; unless you are agreeable, people will not care for you; and though true friends are hard to make, they are very easily lost. 
               It was Kate Ashton's perfect horror to see her aunt's form literally darkening the door; she had so much that was bad to say of every one they knew, and so little good, that she succeeded in making the whole family uncomfortable while the influence of her visit lasted. Her nieces only went to see her when they were obliged to go on duty visits; for there was certainly not much pleasure in it. The whole house had a rigid, cold aspect; each chair placed in an exact angle with its neighbor, and if by any chance they were taken from their places, you were made uncomfortable till they were restored again; for you could see the lady of the house literally groaning in spirit as she witnessed the defamation. Then Mrs. Judson's conversation consisted in ridiculing all their friends, till they were thoroughly uncomfortable; and every little pleasure was cried down as interfering with study, until Kate and Florence hailed with joy the end of their visit, and were truly glad when a sufficient time had been spent on duty. They always held a council of war before they went in the house; as to how long they would stay, and who should give the signal for leaving; though they tried to shorten the ordeal as much as possible. It was therefore with brightened faces and a sigh of relief that they turned from the house when the door closed upon them, and hurrying away, congratulated themselves on being free for the present. It was unfortunate, as the laughing Kate said, that the time should come around so soon again. 
               Mrs. Judson was not a regular gossip and mischief-maker; she was much too cautious and like her husband to do anything openly, or in any way compromise herself; but have you never found that the most dangerous kind of scandal is the silent kind? There was never anything that you could trace to its right source; nothing said directly and boldly that you could seize upon; it was all done by winks, nods, and looks, and an occasional hateful little word, not bearing directly on the subject, but a great deal more dangerous than if it had, for there was no flaw that you could notice, only a general feeling of uncomfortableness; so that you knew the sting was there, though you did not know the exact part that had been hit. She delighted in saying the most disagreeable things, in the same breath that she was calling on all round her to love each other, and be good Christians. 
               Kate felt, when under this treatment, as a high-spirited horse must do when held in tightly with the curb rein, while at the same time the spurs are dug into the rowels to goad him on. She would listen as patiently as possible, and said as little as she could for fear of making her aunt angry; not that she cared for her opinion, but because she had seen her angry once, and never wanted to see her so again. You can understand that the influence of such a character would not be agreeable; and cannot be surprised that her nieces went but seldom to her house, only paying duty visits, as I have said. 
               It is nearly twelve o'clock when I again take up the thread of my story. Mrs. Ashton is seated at one of the front windows making some pretty trifle for her daughter Florence, and Mrs. Judson has just closed the gate, and is coming slowly up the walk. You can read a great deal by her manner when you watch her walking carefully along, and noticing everything in her progress; her dress is held closely round her, as if she were afraid of contact with any one, or, thing, and her lip curls scornfully when her eyes are cast on the pretty hanging baskets, the girls' especial care. The swinging globes of goldfish do not find favor, but are only looked upon as foolishness, while she wonders how any one in their sober senses can tolerate such a waste of time. She is thinking of her sister. 
               "Good-morning, sister,-how do you do?" Mrs. Ashton had come to the door to meet her. "I see the girls have sunfish in their globes; they were not such a bargain after all." 
               "You are mistaken, sister." Mrs. Ashton smiled weakly, though she felt hurt, for she admired the globes as much as her daughters. "They are goldfish." 
               "Very well, have it so, sister." Mrs. Judson made her head more stiff, offended at having her opinion so treated. "It is very easy to know a goldfish when you see one." She walked into the house. "Why, where did you get that cotton for your tidies? It looks very strong." She raised the offending tidy, and examined it closely. 
                
               "The cotton is not unbleached, you can see, if you examine it, sister. Florence selected the cotton particularly because it was so fine, and we both think they are the prettiest we have made for a long time." Mrs. Ashton, who was proud of her tidies, smoothed one over the chair caressingly. 
               "I saw that rough Blake girl going to the river to go boating. It was as I came here, so early in the day. I wonder that her mother allows it; not to mention the waste of time, she is making herself more rough and unladylike every day. Did you notice how brown she is?" This was intended for Kate, for Mrs. Judson knew how fond she was of the water. Kate was very much burnt, her mother knew, but then it would all wear off by the time winter came; and Kate's good looks were of less importance than her health, her father had said when spoken to by his wife. 
               "How did you like the minister on Sunday? I thought he was very interesting." Mrs. Ashton tried to change the subject. 
               Mrs. Judson raised her eyes to the ceiling as a reply; while Mrs. Ashton looked up also, nervously afraid of seeing a cobweb, or a few more fly specks than usual. 
               "I called to see Rebecca Foster yesterday," Mrs. Judson sighed deeply. "I wonder if it is true that her mother used to stand in a store?" 
               "You don't tell me so!" Mrs. Ashton was quite as much disturbed as her sister could wish. 
               "It is very late, and I must go, for I have several matters to attend to." And Mrs. Judson, after making her sister far from comfortable, left her. 
               "Florence dear, do you know your fish are not goldfish, but sunfish? I am afraid you were very much cheated." 
               "Nonsense, mamma. Don't you believe your own eyes? Any one can see they are goldfish!" 
               "Don't speak so abruptly; it is very unladylike. A lady should have a low voice, and always be ready to defer her opinion to others. You will never be popular with gentlemen, Katherine; they do not like such decided young ladies." 
               "I cannot help it, mamma. I cannot be different from what I am." Kate shrugged her shoulders. 
               "You grow more and more like your father every day. I don't understand how you can be so awkward." Mrs. Ashton was much disturbed. 
               "I could not look like any one better, mamma." Kate appeared pleased by what her mother had said, though it was intended as a rebuke. She loved her father so dearly that she could not find anything she would have liked changed; and his eccentricities were dearest of all, and most fondly cherished. 
               "Florence dear, I heard something so dreadful about Miss Foster,-her mother was a mantua-maker." 
               "Dear! dear! Sister, I knew she was not a proper person." 
               Kate drew down her mouth and looked at Florence, while she mimicked her aunt. 
               "I am afraid, Florence, our last tidy cotton was not the right number; they look quite coarse to me. Don't you think so?" 
               "I think they are beautiful, mamma; much the prettiest we have ever made. Don't you think so, Kate?" 
               "Of course they are, Flore?" 
                
               "Say, Florence, Katherine," Mrs. Ashton interrupted. "Going with that boy, and being so much on the river, is making you more rough every day; you are shockingly burnt!" 
               "Aunt Judson was here to-day, was not she, mamma?" Kate gave her sister a mischievous look. 
               "Yes, she was; and she said it was a long time since you had been there, and she thought it strange that you did not come oftener. It is strange you cannot go without my always having to tell you." Mrs. Ashton was thoroughly out of temper, for she had been much tried by her sister's visit. 
               "It is strange we do not care to go, mamma; don't you think so, Florie?" Kate laughed to herself as she left the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               IT was the close of the summer term at school; and New London contains many busy working bees, and none more studious or anxious than Kate Ashton. She has been in a very hard class this term, the stopping-point of many; and Kate and her classmates are all eager to earn their medals and be sure of promotion, for it is considered quite an honor to go bravely through the present ordeal. Kate remembers Florie's trouble at this period, and how much disappointed papa was when she was not successful, and did not pass readily; but a second term found her in the same old place, much to her mortification. Kate has gone creditably through all her examinations, and if she can only succeed in the present one she is sure to go through the rest without difficulty; so she is very busy studying up all she has learned through the term. Florie is only one class above her younger sister, for she has not gone as brilliantly through her career; but, then, Florence never cared as much for her books as Kate had always done, and did not learn as readily. 
               It is quite late the Saturday afternoon before the examination, and Kate, who has been too busy for her usual sail, closed her books in utter weariness and started for a stroll by the river bank. How calm and peaceful the deep-blue water looked, rippling and gurgling up on the sand at her feet, as she seated herself on a large stone, enjoying all its beauties! She is gazing at the opposite bank, and occasionally tossing a stone in the bright, clear surface before her; there is a little row-boat coming round the island, and it must be that she is watching so intently. The boat is growing larger and larger as the distance is lessened, and its inmate raises his hat to Kate, who sits watching him. 
               "Kate, it is too bad you did not come to-day; it was a perfect morning for a sail. Where did you shut yourself up? I looked for you every place! Some one else missed you, too. I saw our hermit looking round the ruins for you, and he asked me if you were sick." Kate and George had appropriated the hermit as their property, for they were the only ones he was at all inclined to notice. "Why did you not come, Kate?" 
               "I forgot to tell you, George, that I was obliged to go to school this morning. We had to look over our abstracts for the last time, and I have been so very busy I could not leave the house sooner." 
               "I was sorry you could not come, Kate; but I wish you all success. Did you know I received the first prize for Greek? I am sure I did not deserve it, for I did not study half as hard as some of the other fellows." 
               "Now, George, aren't you ashamed of yourself to fish so boldly for a compliment? I don't care whether you studied hard or not, papa says you are the best Greek scholar he has, and you know it, you vain boy." George laughed a little low pleased laugh to himself, while he took off his hat and made a funny bow of acknowledgment. 
                
               "Will you take a row, Kate?" 
               "No, thank you, George; it is too late. I must go home soon; I only came out for a breath of fresh air, I was so tired digging away at my books." 
               "Well, then, I will just pull the boat in. I don't suppose you strongly object to wasting a little of your precious time on me?" He appeared well satisfied as he settled himself on the side of his boat, and tried to teach her how to make the flattest stones skim the water. 
               "Did your father really say that, Kate?" The boy-for he was only a boy-blushed, while a pleased smile played round his lips; for Professor Ashton's praise was very dear to his pupils. 
               "What?" Kate, who knew perfectly well what he was thinking of, appeared not to understand. 
               "The Greek, you know." 
               "You vain boy-thinking of that all this time, though you tried to be so indifferent!" 
               "But did he really, Kate?" 
               "Yes, really." Kate laughed with delight when she at last succeeded in making her stone do as she wanted it to do. 
               "You are provoking, Kate, not to tell me what the professor said, when I worked so hard for the prize." 
               "Why, I thought you did not work at all!" Kate opened her eyes in mock astonishment. 
               "You may tell me or not, just as you please. I don't care, you know very well what I mean." 
               "Got his back up, poor little fellow! would he like to have a stick of candy?" Kate, who felt in a teasing mood, patted her companion's shoulder, for he had turned his back to her. 
                
               "Good-afternoon, Kate." George pushed boat off a little way, as though he intended going, though he had no idea of doing anything of the kind. 
               "Good-afternoon, George, I am sorry it is so late, or I would go with you' She coolly went on trying to make her stones skim the water. 
               "Do you want me to go, Kate?" 
               "Why, I never thought about it; I did not know I had any choice." 
               "Do you want me to go, or shall I stay?" 
               "George, is that the way you hold your hand?" She was intent on the stones she held, trying to find the flattest. 
               "You are just as disagreeable and provoking this afternoon as you can be, and I have a great mind to go." 
               "Well, why don't you? There is Lucius Wheeler coming." Kate, who was a little bit of a coquette at heart,-and what woman is not?-smiled as she turned to welcome a handsome blue-eyed boy who was coming toward them. While George decided she should not try that dodge on him,-he would not go now to please her. 
               "I was just thinking of you, Miss Kate: I have some water-lilies and ferns for your herbarium." 
               "Oh, have you?" Kate appeared delighted, though she did not care at all. And, as she looked at George, she thought, "If he is goose enough to think I care for poor little Lucius Wheeler, who is nothing but a baby, why let him." 
               So Kate turned her back on her chosen friend, and talked to the new-comer with all her might, though she would a great deal rather have talked to George. "But then it was such fun to see his face, and it was only for fun after all; if he were not so foolish he might know that. It was just as well to let him see she could have some one else if she wanted; boys were such vain things, it would never do to let them know how much you really cared for them." 
               Now, I am not going to excuse Kate, though I fully enter into her feelings; and, if I were a man myself, I would prefer a little variety in my ladylove, as all sweetness would be too cloying. A small portion of spice in our daily mess is not unpleasant, though we should be careful not to exceed that little, or it had better have been left entirely alone. Kate need not have looked so much interested, and might occasionally have noticed George; but Kate never did things by halves, for she was not a good actress, therefore she talked on perfectly oblivious of George's presence. 
               "Good-by, Kate." George actually did get in the boat, and pushed himself off, which she did not expect at all. 
               "Stupid fellow!" She would have liked to have called him back, but pride interfered; and instead of doing what she wanted, she threw a large stone close by the boat, so that he was nicely splashed, though not as wet as she would have liked him to be. "It was so stupid in him to leave her with such a tiresome little monkey!" Poor Lucius Wheeler was suffering in her estimation. Now this was childish, but Kate was but a child, a quick-tempered, affectionate child, too. She could have given herself a good beating when George raised his hat and said,- 
                
               "Good-afternoon, Miss Ashton! I hope next time I will find you more amiable." 
               This was too provoking; for she was sure it was George, and not she, who had been angry. Any one could see how much ruffled he had been. But she most sincerely wished that she had left the stone alone, and that it was safe back on the sand, where it belonged, instead of glistening in the water, just where she could see it. It was too aggravating! For had she not gone and betrayed herself, when she wanted so much to be dignified? It was surprising how little she cared for her flirtation now; and poor little Lucius Wheeler imagined he had done something serious to offend her, so great was the change in her manner. Kate went home, silly girl, feeling more tired than when she had come out. These love affairs are fearfully wearing on the spirit, and it is well there is some relief, for such an intense state of feeling is truly exhausting. 
               She was more provoked and sorry when she reached home, to find a large jar of queer fish for her aquarium, and also a little basket of berries. George had been out all morning, thinking of her, and she had treated him so unkindly. Kate felt like having a good cry, though she said that she did wish he would not send her such things, she did not care for them, she was sure. This was all because she was angry with herself, for she felt more like crying every moment that she was assuring Auntie how indifferent she felt, for Auntie had come to display her treasure, thinking her darling would be delighted. 
               "That is a sword-fish, I suppose, Auntie?" Kate tried to appear indifferent. 
               "Laws, honey! why it's real curious anyhow." 
                
               "Yes, it is very ugly." Kate looked at the fish, much interested, all the time wondering if George were vexed, and thinking she would give anything to see him, and tell him how sorry she was that she had been so disagreeable, and how much she was pleased by his kindness. So mcuh for Kate's dignity. 
               "Why, there is a taddie! Is not that glorious, Auntie?" Kate, who was a child, and could not be serious very long, forgot her trouble for the moment in delight at her new possessions. 
               "Laws, honey! Ain't it curious?" Auntie bent to look too. "Hedges! But there is a sight of them." 
               "Why, Auntie, he will soon be a frog; just look! his front feet are coming. Don't you see? Look there in front." 
               "I know where you means, honey, but I can't see a stime for them weeds and things." 
               "Goodness! Auntie, that is my beautiful Adrian turn pedatum-maiden-hair." 
               "Laws, honey! larnin' is a power that is hard to beat. Leastways, I don know nothin' greater, and you knows a heap, and there's no mistake." Her eyes were raised admiringly to Kate's eager face. 
               "I do wish I were through with Monday, Auntie; it will be the hardest day of the examination; we have over three hundred pages in history,-just names and dates, and have to know them all perfectly; for if we miss at all we won't be promoted. It is dreadful to think of." 
               "Heavens on airth! and did ever any one hear tell? Why, how on airth do you 'spect to do it, honey?" 
               "I don't know, Auntie; but I have studied so hard I think I am pretty safe if I don't get frightened. I should like to do well to please papa, for he is sure to be in the examination-room, and will hear us." 
               "Well, chile, if it is be done you'll do it; I'd be willin' to lay a heap you'll be all right if anybody is. You're a real pert one, Miss Kate. Auntie's chile will take the shine out of them all, never fear!" Her hand was laid caressingly on the young girl's shoulder. 
               "If you had anything to do with it I am sure I would." Kate smiled. "One can't do anything more than try, and I am sure I have done that." 
               "Well, I rather think you have, honey; and it is a caution if you stick at anything, for you never does." 
               "Kate, mamma wants you." 
               "What is it, Florie?" 
               "She wants you to go out for her." 
               "Why, I thought you were out this afternoon?" 
               "Yes, but I had so much to do I did not get through with all I intended; and mamma does not want me to go again, for I am tired." 
               "I am sorry, for I am so busy." 
               "Yes, I see." Florence looked at the fish. 
               "Now, Florie, you know I don't mean that, but I ought to go back to my books. I wish I had known sooner. But never mind; Auntie, will you finish this, please?" 
               "Yes, honey, I'll do it all right." Auntie tried to move the fish as she had seen Kate doing. 
               "It is a real shame that chile should be put on so, sendin' her out of errands this time of day, and she so tired! Miss Florie I guess didn't like carryin' them bundles for her ma, so Miss Kate has to do it; and she'll get no thanks neither. The ways of this world beats me; there's that blessed chile a workin' of and studyin' her eyes out, and the Missus never notices; and Miss Florie, she's so full of herself and her fineries, she never sees nothin' neither. She's just as much use when there's anything a doin' as that ketch to that thar wood-house door, stanin' open agin." Auntie started off to close the offending door. 
               "Look here, Andy, you big, lazy, fat nigger, if you dares to put them tools of yourn in that thar wood-house without a ketchin' of the door, I'll put them where you won't be a findin' of them in a hurry. It is a caution the way them niggers works; can't do a little bit of gardenin without all them tools. Thinks I have nothin' better to do nor to run at their heels and fetch and carry. Guess they're, mighty mistaken if they ketches this nigger at any sich work." 
               Kate was tired, and did not want to go out again; but she went more cheerfully when she thought she might meet George and make up their little quarrel. And she was repaid for her trouble, for she did meet George, and their difficulties were all settled to their mutual satisfaction. 
               It was with merry, glowing faces they turned toward her home, for she had finished her errands, and care for the present sat lightly on her shoulders. She had told George how highly her father had spoken of him, and how very anxious she was to please papa also; and they had talked of many other things equally interesting to both. 
               "The only thing that troubles me very much, George, is that horrid algebra; I am so afraid I will miss. The harder I try the harder it is. I do wish you could do it for me. Sometimes I feel perfectly stupid when I think of it." 
               "Why, Kate, it is very easy. I know you will have no trouble." 
               "I am glad you think so, George; but I am beginning to think as poor little Majorie Fleming did about the multiplication table: 'One or two unknown quantities are bad enough; but when it comes to four or five, it is just devilish.'" 
               "Kate, what would Aunt Judson say?" George laughed. 
               "If I make one little mite of a mistake she will magnify it into a mountain, and poor mamma will never hear the end of it. Goodness, George! Do you know, I think I see that horrid brown bonnet of hers at the parlor window! Don't come any farther, or she will be sure to say something hateful. You are very kind to help me with my bundles. Don't open the gate, I can do it,-silly boy, she will be sure to see you." 
               "Well, then, good-by, Kate." George put on a very much frightened face as Kate went in the gate dropping some of her bundles; for she could not help laughing when George walked away very stiffly, imitating Mr. Judson, much to Auntie's delight, who was watching him from the kitchen window. 
               She chuckled to herself and said, "Them two chil'en was just a picter to look at any day; and didn't Mas'r George take off the old poker grand!'5 Auntie had another good laugh when Kate came out in the kitchen to see if her fish were safe and if tea were not ready. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               MONDAY morning dawned clear and beautiful, as Kate Ashton knew, for she had been so anxious about the examination that she had not been able to sleep, but was up with the earliest dawn, going over her different tasks. Early morning, as we all know, is the best time for study, when the brain is fresh and clear, and Kate had fully tested its worth this day. 
               "You look as though you were going to carry all before you, my darling!" Professor Ashton bent to kiss the radiant face as she busied herself with his clean, white cravat. 
               "I have tried my best, papa, and if I fail, you will know it is not because I was lazy." 
               "Of course, darling!" The father, when he looked in her glowing, eager face, could see no sign of failure there. 
               Kate was a favorite with all her classmates, and though they knew that she was much quicker than they were, they did not feel an atom of envy, but gloried in her previous success. There was something so strong and true and unselfish about her that she won all hearts. 
               Her teachers love her, though none of their scholars have given them more trouble; for Kate had a strong love of the ridiculous, and was often tempted to mischief; and, learning more readily than her companions, had always more time to dispose of, so was frequently led into trouble by her love of frolic. No girl in the school was sent oftener to the principal, and she made him smile by saying, "She did not know why she was sent, unless it was that she liked so much to have him talk to her." 
               She was the outlaw of the school, for it was an understood thing she could not be controlled by ordinary laws; but then there was no deceit about her, and she was always ready to acknowledge her fault, and would take all blame, if there were any, off of her companions' shoulders. So, while the teachers talked to her, and gave her long tasks to learn for some piece of girlish mischief, they all agreed that they had no scholar who interested them as much, for she learned so readily it was pleasant to hear her recite; she made every task agreeable. She would take the whole lesson on her shoulders, and was always ready with her answer; to use her own words, "She would study like an owl to please papa, but then she must have her frolics for recreation." 
               The dreaded Monday morning had at last arrived; and Kate, having made her father beautiful to her satisfaction, gathered all the flowers she could for the class-room, started for school with an eager face and quickly beating heart. 
               "How do you feel, Kate?" Lettie, her chosen friend, met her with open arms. 
               "I am very much frightened, Lettie; how do you feel?" 
               "I am frightened out of my wits, Kate; just feel my heart." Lettie placed Kate's hand over the unruly little member that certainly was thumping away pretty hard. 
                
               "I brought all the flowers I could find, Miss Moore." Kate held up her richly-laden hands. 
               "They are beautiful, dear." Miss Moore, whose thin, pinched lips, and light-blue eyes did not bespeak much enthusiasm, actually kissed Kate's upturned face, for even she was flurried by the examination. 
               "Is Mr. Longstreth here?" mentioning the principal's name. 
               "Yes, he has been here some time. I do wish he would not come so early. I don't see what pleasure he can take in seeing us tortured!" 
               "Never mind, Lettie, it will soon be over, and anyway, we have done our best. I am not going to be anxious any more." 
               "Kate Ashton! Why, here is Kate Ashton!" And two more of her classmates joined them. 
               "Kate, you will sit on the front bench, won't you?" 
               "What for, Mollie? I don't think I am particularly good-looking." 
               "Kate, I don't see how you can laugh. I feel so frightened." 
               "Every one is frightened; and, as I do not want to be common, I am not going to be frightened too." 
               "Neither would I be, Kate, if I were as sure as you are." 
               "There is papa, Lettie." 
               "Oh, professor! why did you come so early "Lettie Armstrong looked almost ready to cry. "I feel so stupid, I know I shall disgrace myself." 
               "Nonsense, girls; let us go into the schoolroom and draw owls on the blackboard, by way of keeping up our courage." Kate tried to be brave to reassure her companions, for she thought "if they get thoroughly frightened there is an end of it, and it would be too bad. Every one says there has never been a better class than ours, and it would be a great shame if it were all spoiled now." 
               "Ding, dong! There goes the bell! I had no idea it was so late. Come, you band of martyrs! Now, girls, do all try your best, or I will never forgive you." Kate took Lettie Armstrong's trembling hand in hers, and headed the long string of girls, as her classmates followed with beating hearts; but feeling much encouraged when they caught sight of her eager, confident face, for they felt in some way as though Kate would help them through. 
               The examination-room was prettily dressed by busy hands with evergreens and flowers. The largest room in the house had been selected, and it looked cheery and bright as the sun streamed in through the window on the neatly dressed little band, for the girls had taken great care to look their best to do honor to their class. 
               Three long rows of benches are placed near the blackboard, the school-girls' especial horror; and opposite are seated different teachers and professors, who their pupils eye with shrinking hearts, wondering what questions they will propound. Close by the table is the principal, with his smoothly brushed hair and mild, sweet face, that the girls all love so dearly. He takes a great interest in the examination, and knows each girl by name; so smiles encouragingly when the frightened faces are turned to look at him. Every Saturday it is Mr. Longstreth's duty to be in the study for several hours, to hear all complaints, and settle any little difficulty that may have arisen during the week, as also to review the weekly summing up of the girls' reports. He is also, in the habit of coming: in at class-time to hear them recite; and as Kate is more daring in her flights of fancy than her companions, she is most frequently singled out by him to do duty at the blackboard; for he has found, as her various teachers have, that it is a pleasure to see her do anything, she is always so much interested, and so much in earnest in all she undertakes. 
               Only last week Kate had sent in a whole composition in rhyme, a very daring thing to do, and against the rules also; but she was daring in everything, and the composition had passed and was approved of. We see that Kate had made a prominent place for herself at school; though if she had not been so intelligent, being Professor Ashton's daughter, if she had no other claim, would have recommended her to notice. Professor Ashton is seated by Mr. Longstreth, and appears quite as anxious and interested as Kate, for he. is very proud of his daughter and wants her to do her best. 
               The little bell is tinkled to draw the girls' attention, and then Miss Moore commences her examination in history; it is quite as trying an ordeal for teacher as well as scholar, for it is considered a great test of their ability; but as question after question is answered readily, Miss Moore's stony face beams with excitement and pleasure, for the girls are going through all creditably. Kate appears to have inspired them, she is so quick with her answers, and knows everything so well; and then she has not confined herself to her school-books, but many other things are brought in to show she understands her subject perfectly. Every now and then she looks at her fattier to see if he is satisfied, and he returns the look with one equally as fond, for she has justified his pride in her. 
               The little band are at last released, and the girls' tongues are loosened when they are again back in the school-room for an hour before their next trial. This is but a slight sketch of the whole examination; and Kate's progress through all her difficulties, even the examination in algebra, that she had been so anxious about, is passed through creditably, and Professor Ash ton appears more than pleased when his daughter receives a silver medal, and her promotion is assured for the next term. 
               It was Florence's last term at school; and Florence was delighted, as girls of her age usually are, at the idea of freedom and all her new-born dignities. Florence was not fond of study; and her mother, who indulged her in everything, and was jealous of Kate's rapid advance, on her account determined Florence should, not go back to school the next term, as it would never do to have both sisters in the same class. 
               Therefore the change was waited for with impatience by Florence,-the change from a schoolgirl to all the delights of young ladyhood,-her heart thrilled when she thought of the flounces, and ruffles, and wonderful dresses she would have. Kate even was interested, and listened to long discussions of different styles of dress; for everything depended, as Mrs. Ashton said, on Florence's first entree into society, for the mother and daughter both agreed on the subject of a good marriage. Love was very well; but love must be well gilded, or it would be very unlovely in the eyes of both. 
               Florence and Kate did not have those long discussions some sisters have, and which they so much delight in; they were like two lawyers pitted against each other, for they never took the same side of the argument. Kate had the best of it, for she was on the side of truth and love; she was, however, more in earnest, and felt more than girls of her age usually do; and then her standard was higher than her sister's. Florence, most of my readers will decide, showed the most practical good sense; if reason would only go with love it were well enough; but then we know it never does, or why is Cupid represented blind? 
               Florence, though so young, had had various triumphs, for we know not when the softer passion first gains a place in our thoughts, and it has a firmer hold on our lives than we are willing to give it credit for having. Every man and woman, however plain,;! truly believe, have had their little romance. If some people could only write their own lives, how interesting and incredible they would appear; for, as has been said, truth is stranger than fiction, if we only knew it; authors cannot write of things as they see them, or they would be accused of exaggerating ridiculously. 
               There was a young lawyer, a Mr. Mason, who for several weeks had been staying in New London, and who was one of Florence's most devoted cavaliers; he had been invited to a yachting party, and had met Florence, for Professor Ashton's daughters were invited every place, as a mark of respect to their father. And although Florence had only just left school, and Kate was but a child, both girls had gone and enjoyed themselves very much. Mr. Mason was devoted to Florence during his stay; and as his visit to New London was repeated, and he became acquainted with the professor, and afterward with Mrs. Ashton, the acquaintance progressed. Particularly after Mrs. Ashton heard that Mr. Mason had an independent fortune, and practiced law more as an amusement than anything else. Mrs. Ashton and Aunt Judson, after talking the matter over, decided Mr. Mason was a very nice young man,-a very nice young man indeed! 
               It was amusing to see how differently the two girls conducted their love affairs. Florence understood all the advantages so perfectly, and knew just how far to go and no farther. There was no danger of her plunging headlong into a sea of love; the waters must be calm and smooth, without a break, and every breeze must blow prosperously for her richly-freighted barge. She never dreamed of love under difficulties, for that would not be nice at all. Nice I that little word explained the whole state of her heart. Nothing strong, deep, or true,-simply nice; passive, not active, bearing, not enduring, had been, and always would be, her way through life. 
               Florence was very lovely in a calm; she was a woman to be proud of at the head of one's table, for she would have entertained well. Silk dresses were her natural garb, and she must have plenty of them too; she was very lovely in prosperity, and sweet when she had all she wanted, but utterly selfish at heart. Let any break come in the way of her prosperity did she would not have stood the test well. She was not one of those natures who come out of the furnace of affliction purified and strengthened by suffering; the true metal was so alloyed with the grosser that it was weakened instead of being made stronger. It was not strange Mr. Mason admired her, her face was very charming, and she was, to all appearance, so amiable and gentle. It was amusing to see how entirely innocent and unconscious she could appear, for Florence perfectly understood the secret of attracting the opposite sex. She would walk with Mr. Mason by the river bank, saying little-nameless nothings and looking down. Florence always looked down, for she had long eyelashes, and had tried the effect in the glass, and knew how good it was. Then her look of pleased surprise when she raised her eyes was very pretty. If she had only possessed Kate's eyes, how much better she would have used them; but, as it was, she did mischief enough with her own, so we will not wish them changed. 
               When a girl looks you straight in the eyes you may be sure she does not mean mischief; but those little side glances are so dangerous, so fearfully telling. There is a very pretty German poem that often runs through my head; do you remember it? "She has two eyes so. soft and brown-take care. She gives a side glance and looks down-take care. Trust her not, she is fooling thee." This is infinitely amusing, and does no harm if it is only carried to a proper extent; and I don't think any true woman would trifle with a man when she knows his affections are interested. You have seen a cat play with a mouse: the sharp claws hurt the little thing; but if pussy will only let him go, he will soon scamper away and forget all about his scratches, and think quite as much of mischief as ever. 
               It is all nonsense saying a woman don't know when a man is paying her attention, whether he is serious or not; for she does, however much she may protest, as I have heard them do. Do you know the difference between gold and brass? Of course you do; and you know equally well the difference between true and pretended love, or you are a goose. Unfortunately, there are a great many geese in this world, both men and women. So many girls delight in saying they don't know anything about love, and wonder how it feels? This sounds pretty and childish, and men like it. Fiddle-sticks! It is an untruth. Mothers try to impress on their children that the truth is very lovely; so it is,-but an untruth, when nicely dressed, is lovely, too. Don't you think so? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               I DO not intend to give my reader a long description of Florence's courtship, although I think love stories are interesting, and I am fond of reading them myself; but in her case there was so little genuine feeling that she would not enlist our sympathy. Florence was pretty and graceful, and Mr. Mason was very happy, which was all that was necessary. It was the first time he had ever been in love, and Florence really thought him very nice, so everything went smoothly with them to their mutual satisfaction. 
               Mamma and Aunt Judson were much pleased also. Aunt Judson decided Mr. Mason was a very proper person. To be sure, he was not a Daniel Webster, but then "a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush," and he would do. Particularly when it was found that he intended taking the handsomest house in New London for the summer, before he permanently settled in New York, Aunt Judson decided he would do very nicely; and Mrs. Ashton, who generally agreed with her sister, thought so, too. 
               Florence had not consulted her father, as she did not care for his opinion, or anything in fact but her own comfort; and Professor Ashton, seeing his daughter was happy, was satisfied, and was very willing to have all responsibility taken off of his shoulders, so that he should not be taken from his beloved books. It was true, he would have liked her to have gone to school longer, but. Florence was not fond of study, and no doubt her mother knew best; then it troubled him greatly to think of every-day matters, and Kate just now was occupying much of his attention. 
               Her father knew that it would be impossible for her to study steadily home in the midst of such a succession of gayety and excitement as Florence was looking forward to, and he was anxious that Kate should be better educated than her sister, and had always cherished an idea of her completing her education in Massachusetts. Professor Ashton had several friends in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, and knew that the schools in that place were excellent; and as Mrs. Ashton was too much engaged with Florence to think of Kate, the professor decided, though it was a great trial to part with her, that Kate should go to a school in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, that he had heard well spoken of, for it was better that Kate should be away from home under present circumstances. 
               Kate was very unhappy, for she had never been from home before; but then, as her father said, it would not be very long till they saw her back again, and she could accomplish all he wished her to, so much more quickly, where she would have nothing to distract her; then, also, he promised to write constantly, and do all he could in that way, to shorten the time: and Kate, who never willingly displeased her father, yielded with a much better grace than might have been expected from a girl of her age. 
               It was a hard trial for Kate to leave her home, as it is only in parting we realize how strong are the ties that hold us. Old Auntie was almost heart-broken when she heard of the change, and as Kate's trunk was packed by her careful hands, many were the tears rained down on the clothes she was so neatly folding. Florie, when she kissed Kate good-by, said it was "too bad;" but she was thinking too much of herself to care for her sister. Aunt Judson hoped she would not make any improper acquaintances, and mamma trusted that she would not be as awkward when she returned. Her father and George both promised to write often, to lighten the period of separation, and Kate left her home feeling very heart-sore and sad, as she looked through the car window at George and her father, though she could hardly see them for her blinding tears. 
               Mr. Irving, the gentleman who was to take charge of her during the first part of her journey and then see her safely on her way, was deeply interested in his paper, and finding Kate was provided with a book, left her to herself, so that she had plenty of time for thought. Kate Ashton's character was not perfect, by any manner of means; she had a quick temper, and often, when she was angry, said many things she had better have left unsaid; then Kate was possessed of a strong sense of the ridiculous, and liked to place people in absurd positions; and though this was amusing for her, it was not pleasant for the persons themselves. For these faults of character Kate had many noble traits to counterbalance; in case of sickness, or anything to be done in the way of kindness, she would not have spared herself; then, also, she was very generous with all that belonged to her. Her quick temper and ready tongue were her great misfortunes. 
                
               It was hard to bid her father good-by, and leave her home; but then she wanted to be well educated, and Massachusetts was the seat of all learning, at least Professor Ashton had succeeded in making his daughter think with himself. Kate did hope she would not grow like some of the Yankee women she knew; and she formed a firm resolution in her own mind that she would not fall into any of their ways of talking. She would call a basket a basket, and not a baas-ket, and she was not going to say that water was rily, and pickles were beautiful; she would rather bite her tongue off first. So Kate arrived at her journey's end, a regular young porcupine, with all her quills ready for battle. 
               It was strange riding from the station in that funny little wagon, with her trunk strapped on behind. A very peculiar little vehicle it was, painted bright-yellow, with a hard, wooden seat, and no doors at all, so that you had to hold on to the side very hard, for you felt as though you would tumble out at every jolt, both sides being open. 
               Kate laughed as she jolted over the stones, for the sturdy mountain-pony went very fast; but finally her destination was reached, and the ring at the door bell was answered by Patience, so the man called her, for they appeared to be on very good terms. Patience was not amiable, but grumbled, at haying to assist with Kate's trunks, and was not patient at all, so that Kate was fully convinced her name did not well suit her. She did not like the appearance Of the house she had entered, it was so cold and dreary after her own sunny home, and she hardly knew what to do with herself, she felt so completely out of place; but at last Mrs. Spriggs came, in answer to Patience's repeated assurance that there was a young woman waiting for her. 
               Mrs. Spriggs was the principal of the school, a widow lady, with one daughter, Marianna, who assisted in the labor of teaching some of the lower classes. Marianna flew down-stairs in answer to her mother's call, for she was affected and ethereal, though Kate was sure she weighed nearly two hundred. She wore long, drooping curls, and had light-blue eyes, very much popped, which she tried to make languishing, but could not well succeed, that not being their natural expression. But, as I have said, Marianna flew down-stairs and gave Kate an ardent embrace, assuring her she was delighted to see her dear, little Adela. 
               "Adela is looking stouter, mamma: is not she a dear little tot?" Miss Marianna squeezed Kate's cheeks in a way she thought familiar, and did not like at all, while she told her she was not Adela, but Kate Ashton. Kate found afterward that Adela was a former pupil, and Miss Spriggs admired the name, so used it on all occasions, to express her affection. Therefore, although Kate decidedly denied all knowledge of the new name, Miss Spriggs only shook her head coquettishly, in answer to her reassurance, saying, "No, indeed! She was no naughty, strange, little girl, but her own little Adela, her dear little tootsy-pootsy." 
               "But little Adela must be famished, and she must have refreshment." Kate followed her vivacious companion to the dining-room, a cold, bleak room, with stiff, cane-seated chairs ranged round the four sides. The dirty table-cloth had not been removed from the table; and though Kate was hungry, she was not much tempted by the fare set before her,-hard, dry, sour bread, and cheesy butter, with a small portion of very fat meat keeping the mustard-pot company. 
               It was not encouraging, and there was a large lump in her throat, which she bravely choked down as she looked at the cracked and broken mustard-pot, whose chipped edges appeared very much as though Patience had been trying her teeth on them. Kate was not a prink, but she disliked dirt, and her heart and appetite both failed her. 
               "Did my little Adela eat cakes on the road and make herself sick?" Miss Spriggs, leaned forward, looking through her fingers at Kate made believe she could not see her, and finally ended by saying, "Boo!" expecting Kate no doubt to jump. Kate did not jump, however, but was rather indignant at having her sixteen years treated so lightly. Then she was tired, cold, and hungry, and did not feel like entering into such gushing juvenility; she therefore simply looked in mute astonishment at her companion, wondering if she were simply a fool or really insane. Judging by appearance, she must be on the shady side of thirty, although so full of life and spirits; and though the flowing ringlets were a good foil to the wrinkles, still the troublesome things would peep out occasionally. 
               "Has the ittie tootsy-pootsy had a dood dinner? The dear little Adela, her own ittie toodle-doo." Marianna walked aerially on the tips of her toes, talking in this insane style, while she filliped the dust off of Kate's coat with her finger and thumb. 
                
               "Will she take off her ittie bonnie and her ittie coatee, and go with her Marianna to see the ittie tots in the school-room?" 
               Kate, glad of any change, said she would like to go very much, and so was taken to the school-room, to be stared at by unruly girls and talked baby talk to, till, like the little man in the fairy tale, she had to feel herself to be sure it was she, she felt so perfectly bewildered. 
               Then the poor tired girl was taken to a small room to take off her things, which she found to her horror she had to share with one of the under-teachers. Kate had never roomed with any one before and you cannot realize what a trial it was to be thrown into such close intercourse with a stranger. She was a brave girl at heart, and though she felt like having a good cry, she choked back the tears while she thought it could not last forever, and she would study hard to please her father, and so get through sooner; therefore she listened patiently to Miss Starr's assurance that she was very much pleased to have a companion. 
               Poor little faded woman! Kate pitied her, as she thought it must be as much of a trial to her as it was for herself; and she would try for her part, as she looked so patient, not to make her life harder than it was. For was not Miss Starr giving her the top drawers in the miserable little bureau, and four out of the six pegs in the close little closet? What Tartars she must have had to deal with! Kate smiled her own bright smile for the first time since she had entered the house, while she assured Miss Starr she must not give her more than her share, and she trusted they would manage nicely together. Kate felt happier when the miserable little figure turned to look at her with a brightened face, while the tears stood in her eyes; for Miss Starr was not accustomed to kindness, and Kate's merry face and genial manner appealed to some chord not quite deadened in her heart. 
               "Would you like to go down-stairs, Miss Ashton?" The question was put timidly, though Miss Starr was thawing fast under Kate's influence. 
               "No, I would rather stay up here a little while. Don't go, Miss Starr, unless you have something to attend to; I would like to have you tell me about the rules." Miss Starr appeared delighted, and took a low chair near Kate, who was seated on the bed, for the room was very small. Miss Starr had never known much of this world's kindness and love, and it was not often any one cared to have her with them. 
               "In the first place, you must call me Kate, and not Miss Ashton-that is, if we are to be friends. I of course will have to call you Miss Starr in public; but you don't mind if I make a name for you in private, do you?" 
               "Oh, no!" She was thawing so rapidly that she gave a little, low, delighted laugh; and then looked with a frightened face around the room, as though she were afraid some one would hear her. 
               "I know they are Tartars." Kate laughed also, and Miss Starr gave a delighted little chuckle. "Is Miss Tootsy-pootsy crazy?" 
               "Oh, no! she is such a girl; at least that is what her mamma says." Miss Starr was growing so genial that she actually made a joke at her principal's expense. 
               "I understand!" Kate clasped both arms round her knees in Regular school-girl style, and did not feel nearly as tired. "I knew she was a vixen, for soft, purring cats always have long claws. But does she always go on in that insane style?" 
               "In the afternoon." Kate after awhile found out, through her new friend, that it was different in the morning during school-hours. Miss Marianna only put on her gushing style in the afternoon, with her afternoon dress, when she might expect company. In the morning, during school-hours, it was curl papers, calico dress, and crossness; and in the afternoon and evening it was merino dress, languishing manner, baby talk, and ringlets. The two styles were as different as the dresses she put on, and put on with them. 
               "I will tell you what we will do, Miss Starr,"-Kate rocked herself up and down,-"we will play Dickens. You will be Joe Gargery, and I will be Pip." They were growing such fast friends Miss Starr looked delighted, and actually laughed out loud. 
               "Look here, now, you must not do that, remember, tickler." Miss Starr nodded. "I will tell you what we will do, which will be much better. Suppose you are aged P.,-for Joe Gargery, though he was a dear, old fellow, was not at all bright, and I never liked Pip,-that will be safer, and we can have our larks all the same. Now, whenever I am saying anything wicked, you must reprove me, you understand; that is for fear some one should hear us, for I don't think these partitions are very thick." Kate leaned back to thump against the wall. "You must nod all the time you are scolding, so that I shall know that you like it, and any one listening will only hear me, and I don't care. You know they might send you away, but they can only scold me; and angry words don't bite, so they won't hurt me." 
               "I am going to call tootsy-pootsy Crabtree, so that any one hearing me won't know who I am talking about, and it is just as well to be on the safe side. Now, if Miss Marianna applies the name to herself, it will not do any harm, for I will be Uriah Heep, very humble; and you know you never can do anything with humble people." Kate appeared delighted when Miss Starr laughed at her nonsense till the tears ran down her cheeks. "Another thing, aged P., I will have to be the Artful Dodger, for I see they intend to starve me, and I can't study when I am hungry; I know papa pays well for me, so it is only cheating him. I shall run away with all the cakes and things that I can conveniently; I want to study hard to please papa, but when I am at leisure I will just take larks for recreation." 
               This was all very wrong in Kate, no doubt, and Miss Starr should not have encouraged her; but it was so amusing to hear her talk, and there was one merit in it, she was perfectly frank in explaining her iniquity, and would do nothing underhand that she could avoid. She read Mrs. Spriggs's establishment perfectly, for Kate was a bright girl, and she was home-sick and desperate, and did not care much what she did; her only idea was to study hard to please her father, but she would while away her time as best she could when not so employed. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               KATE had been in her new home a month, and had gradually become accustomed to her daily life, and could put up with its discomforts much better than on her first arrival; it is true she was far from comfortable or happy, but she felt as though she were improving, and her letters from home were a constant pleasure, so the time passed much more quickly than she had any idea it would have done. She was a favorite with Miss Marianna, who talked a great deal of baby talk, to which she had grown accustomed, and did not resent as much as on her first experience. If it was any satisfaction to Miss Spriggs, Kate had no objection, for it did her no harm, though it was very wearisome, and she often wished Miss Marianna was not so gushing. 
               Miss Starr and herself were fast friends, for Kate soon found that she was the only one she could make a companion of; her school-mates she did not like, for they were coarse and unrefined, and were not at all congenial; so Kate studied hard, and bore the discomforts of her new home bravely. It was hard to break the ice in her pitcher every morning before dressing; and it was a trial, after old Auntie's good cooking, to become accustomed to the miserable fare set before her. These were minor evils, and Kate could have borne them cheerfully if she had liked the people she lived with, but she did not; everything was entirely uncongenial and strange, so that she literally lived on her letters from home, and longed to be back again. 
               Even if not pleasantly employed, time will not stand still, but goes on its way quickly when we have anything to do. Three months had passed, and Kate was again met at the station by her father and George; for she had come home to spend her birthday and thaw out a little, as she laughingly told Miss Starr in parting. What a home-coming it was! papa was' so proud of, and happy in, his daughter, and they had many mutual confidences. Mamma and Florie were delighted also; for they had not realized, till she left them, how many broken links in their chain of life she had helped to fill in and straighten out; then Auntie made so many good things for her darling's benefit that Kate hardly knew what to take first, and declared she had eaten more in two days than during all the time of her stay from home. Aunt Judson even unbent enough to say Kate was improved; yes, in disregard of discomforts, and three months of the cold New England winter, she was much improved in womanly grace and beauty though Kate had not changed in heart, but was, as of old, as devoted to the boy-lover, who was now, as ever, in her heart of hearts, without equal. George had many faults, and Kate saw them quite as plainly as any one, but she loved him in disregard of them, and did not realize how inferior his character was to her own, and that he was a stand-still, while she each year was advancing and improving 
               Love is a strange thing, the beginning and end of life,-and of woman's life how large a share it forms! Miss Marryat says, in speaking of one of her heroines, "A woman may put her head down, and her tyrant's foot on it; no sacrifice is too great or ridiculous for a woman when she really loves; it is only those women who wish to take men's places who unsex themselves." 
               Kate was one of this order of women: George might do what he pleased; her reason rebelled against the injustice, but her heart was always true; and though he tried her many times, and she said he was quite unbearable, how would she stand another's saying the same? No, say one word not in his praise, and her eyes would kindle and flash, and quick would be the denial; and then she would feel like hating herself for her weakness. She often made George laugh by saying, "It is so hard, and makes me so angry, when I think the harder I hate you I love you all the more." This is a strange contradiction; but life is full of contrarieties, and love is the greatest of all. 
               There are many girls who like to talk of their love affairs, and think it sounds pretty; Kate could never talk of anything that moved her deeply, for she said she was always so foolish she had to cry, and she did not know what for. She had a strong, sensitive nature, and it often made her appear cold, she put on such a mask to restrain herself. George might do what he pleased, but she trusted him through all, and was always ready with an excuse for him; if only people would not question and trouble her she would gladly never have spoken of him, though-God bless him!-there was no one like him. Though she did not realize, there were many new wants of her spirit opening that her boy-lover could not understand; and often, when soaring high in her flights of fancy, she did not see that he was groveling far below. He had much the weakest nature of the two, and Kate's eyes were so blinded she could not clearly understand wherein he failed; she was often indignant with him? and parted from him in anger, but after she had gone up to her room at night, no matter how angry she had been before, when she knelt down to say her prayers, the first thing always was: 
               "God bless George! and make him good and happy, and able and willing to walk in the right path; and serve Thee more and more every day that he lives, for Thy dear Son's sake. And help me, O Father! to walk by Thy grace, and be made stronger every day that I live, so that I may be more worthy to help him, in Thy way, through Thy mercy." She was often too sleepy to think of any more, but she was always wide-awake in remembering George in her prayers; she had known so little love that that little was very dear to her; and there was something so strong and deep in her heart, and so earnest in her nature, that she kept him in the right path when he otherwise might have strayed away. The girl's unselfishness, and the generous hand with which she blindly lavished her love, kept her eyes blinded to the truth. And often George would call her an angel when he smoothed down her wavy hair, and tell her she had been his good providence; she had kept him out of sin many and many a time, and all that was good in him he owed to her: and I don't know but what he was right. 
                
               A great trial was coming to my heroine; the sky of our republic seemed very dark, stormy debates followed each other, and the fire of hate blazed most fiercely in Northern and Southern hearts. South Carolina and Massachusetts seemed pitted against each other, for there the hate appeared to rankle most keenly; though soon all the sister States took either one side or the other in the great contest, when, after the presidential election, that good man, whose name we all reverence, was called to the seat of honor. We all remember the arrogance of the South, and the patience of the North; now fagot after fagot was added, only waiting one spark to kindle the whole into a sheet of flame. Fort Sumter was the spark needed to kindle all into a blaze; and what a blaze it was, illumining the whole horizon, and bringing sorrow and mourning to many hearts. 
               At the first sounds of war George was on the alert, and could think of nothing else; Kate also was all excitement, though she was sick at heart when she thought of what would follow. She would not have been satisfied if he had stayed at home, but still it was very hard to think he was going into danger, and, may-be, death. So, while she listened to him with her eyes blinded by her tears, she did not in anyway discourage him; and when he said to her reproachfully, "Kate, you do not want me to stay at home?" her answer was: "Of course I do not want you to go, but I think it is your duty; and if I were a man I would do exactly as you are doing." So George was satisfied, and, as he pressed her to his heart, he told her there was no one like her. 
               "But, Kate, it is all very well to talk of honor and glory, and it is truly glorious,"-his face saddened,-"but I may come home maimed and useless, I may even be repulsive to look at." He shuddered. 
               "What if it were so, George? I would only care for your sake, you will always be the same to me; I know you have made up your mind as to what is your duty, and I will not try and dissuade you, for I think you are right. George, do you know I feel like apologizing for every man who is not in the army, and I think they are ashamed of themselves, or they would not be so ready to make excuses. Goethe says, 'You must always show a man you value him according to his aspirations, and not to his shortcomings;' but I would rather be proud of you both in your intentions, and the way they are carried out. Do you remember, George, last week, during that dreadful accident, how much good Mrs. Grey did for the poor sufferers who were left desolate by the fire? It was a very good thing for them, but I did not feel as though I cared for her, or admired her at all for what she had done; it was all done through selfishness, as she liked to see her name in the paper, for you know she is not good-hearted." 
               "I think you will miss me, Kate, and are much more deserving of credit than Mrs. Grey, in sending me away without murmuring." His face saddened. "We cannot tell what changes may come for both of us." He did not know how almost prophetic were his words, and that in bidding good-by to his childhood's friend he would, with his own hand, chill her heart and erect a barrier between them worse than death. 
               "I shall be so anxious, George,-I have had so little love, I dread to lose it." Her hand was raised to brush away the tears she did not wish him to see. "Life is hard at times, and I often feel like rebelling, though I want to be good; we will both try to do our duty." She was doing her best to smile. "There is a little verse, I don't know where I got it, but it often runs through my head, and helps me: 
                      
                        'Whenever a duty waits for thee, 
                        With cheerful judgment view it, 
                        And never idly wish it done, 
                        Begin at once, and do it.'" 
                     
                  
                
               Thus Kate talked to and strengthened her boy-lover, though her heart was very sore when she thought of their parting. Her holiday was over, and she must go back to school for three more months, so that they would not have been together even if she had stayed at home; and how much harder it would have been not to see him there where everything reminded her of him! Kate thought and reasoned with herself, and bore her second parting from home much better than the first. Three months more to please her father, and then home, and freedom, and-who knows? 
               "You may be a great man, George, and forget the old days." Kate did her best to laugh as she looked in her companion's sober face and told him he must win his "Eagles," she, would expect nothing less. "I am not going to be sober, George,"-her face contradicted her words. "There is no use in borrowing trouble or interest, it comes soon enough without; you must write as often as you can, and I will do the same, though I am afraid I will have trouble with Crabtree about your letters." 
                
               Kate's holiday passed only too quickly and George had gone with hi company to the seat of war, and all her preparations for her return to school were completed. 
               How well she remembered, and how often she thought of her last walk with her boy friend! It was a cold, dark afternoon in January, and the trees were decked most brilliantly with icicles that glittered in the setting sun as Kate and George took their last walk and parting. She had dressed herself in her best clothes, ad put on a pair of new boots that she knew George would admire if he should chance to see them; and then had plodded away over the snow-strewn ground far down the country lanes and out into the country itself, where they could talk more uninterruptedly. 
               The new boots had grown quite damp, and were fast losing their primitive freshness; but of what consequence are new boots or anything else when your feelings are so much interested? Kate and her companion talked and rambled on, and made many bright dreams for the future, for they were young and full of hope. There is something touching in first love, it is so true and pure, though no doubt very foolish; you may love more than once, but never as at first; I don't doubt but what you may love more wisely and be much happier in a second experience if the first proved unworthy. But the dew is brushed from the flower, and the first bloom is gone in its rougher passage; there is not the same blind and perfect trust as there was at first. 
               Kate and George were very happy, though sad at parting, for they viewed everything round them through rose-colored glasses, which tinted all brightly in the future; she was full of the glorious deeds her companion should do, and she already saw his name in long columns of the morning paper, for she was a bright day-dreamer. 
               Kate had become quite well acquainted with her new brother in prospective, therefore one more was added to her list in parting, for Kate and Mr. Mason were great friends. Then, also, she was sorry to bid good-by to her hermit, as Kate and the whole family had learned to call him; for George and herself had clambered up the hard, frozen ground to the old fort many times during her short vacation. And though they all laughed at Her, and every one in New London, and even George, said he was insane, Kate would not believe them, but still kept up her interest in her strange friend. 
               It was a long, bleak winter, snow-storm followed snow-storm, till Kate felt literally shut in away from her home. The mails had been very irregular, which was a great trial, as she looked forward with much impatience to her letters; and often thought of George, exposed to lard-ship and danger, and would grieve when she thought of him. Then she gloried in his strength, as she knew it would serve him well now; and her eyes would kindle and flash as she read of difficulty and danger, for she believed in the strong spirit she saw in her dreams. The girl could not see that there was too much bravado, and that George boasted too much in his letters, to make them all true. She could not quarrel with him if he wrote always of himself, for it was all she cared to hear; but, though she read and tried to be pleased, there was a weary, un-easy feeling remaining she could not define. 
               These letters, in disregard of their want, were very dear to her; she always carried the last one with her until it could be replaced by a fresh one; and whenever alone she would read and re-read the thickly covered pages. Her whole heart went out to him in his troubles, and she lived and thought of nothing but her letters; each day was one day less, till another could come, and sometimes, as often happened when the mail was delayed, and two would come at the same time,-what a glorious harvest it was! 
               What an exciting time she had with her letters independent of any merit they contained of themselves! Mrs. Spriggs only sent once a day to the post-office and, as the Southern mail came in late in the afternoon, the girls would have had to wait till the next day for these precious missives, for many besides Kate had brothers and friends in the army. But they were not content to wait, and it was amusing to see them manage, though it was always arranged during the day, who should go to the post-office; and as Kate dreaded the dark walk less than her companions, she had more than her share of danger. 
               The only time they could get away was during the evening study hour, when Miss Spriggs and her mother were never in the school-room, and the girls were left to one of the under teachers. As soon as the little conclave were, to all appearance, deep in study, and the teacher, seeing everything quiet, was interested in her book, Kate would slip from her chair under the long table, while the girls crowded together to fill up the gap her absence made. Then what an exciting time it was till she reached the door, which was purposely left on the latch by the young conspirators aiding and abetting her. Then for the long india-rubber boots, hidden away in Some convenient place, for the snow was very deep, and every one had to wear them from the first sprinkle until quite late in the spring. Then the long cloak was donned, and the hood drawn tightly over her head, and she would start on her errand. 
               Once out of the house, there was no danger of detection, for Miss Spriggs and her mother were usually at some church meeting; pr, if not, were shut up in the parlor; and Patience, with whom Kate was a great favorite, enjoyed the excitement, and did all she could to help her in the way of answering troublesome questions. As soon as the gate was cautiously closed, Kate would run as fast as she could to the post-office, which was, fortunately, only a square distant; it was a, long, dark lane,-but what did she care when there was a chance of such rich repayment? The postman knew the girls well, so was always ready for the little, eager, expectant figure, which, if it were possible, would be found at its post; he had always some merry word or joke when the letters were handed over, and then Kate was again on her way back. It must all be done in the shortest time possible, for in every moment there was danger of being found out, and a stop being put to these evening rambles. 
               These evening adventures often brightened her whole day, as, even if Kate had not letters of her own, she looked forward to the pleasure of her companions. How slowly and quietly she would slip back to her seat, answering the brightened faces round her by a merry nod, to show who were among the fortunate. Then their treasure was distributed, while all the time the teacher, unconscious of the commotion among her quiet and apparently studious flock, read peacefully on. 
               Often they were nearly discovered, and only escaped to rush into fresh danger; it was exciting, and reminded Kate of her adventures in the kitchen closet, when, as a little child, she had gone down to see old Auntie, and was hidden away at any approaching, footstep. She studied hard, and sent home good reports, so that her father was satisfied, and partly promised to come to see her after Christmas. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               IT was near Christmas when Kate received a letter from Florence telling her her father could not come, as he had expected, for he had taken a severe cold, and had not been well since. Florence wrote about her own affairs, and sent many joking messages from Mr. Mason, but did not tell Kate as much as she would have liked about her father. He had been confined to the house for nearly a week with a severe cold and sore-throat, but would try, if he could not see her on Christmas, to be with her soon after. 
               "Papa must be very sick not to have written." Kate felt troubled and sad, she hardly knew why. It was true she had not had a letter from George for over a week, as the mail was again delayed, but that could hardly be the reason of her depression; and Kate wondered and fretted about her father until another week had passed, but still she did not hear from home. "What could they be doing? Some one might have written when they knew how anxious she would be." And Kate pined for the letters that were so long in coming. 
               It was an icy-cold afternoon, the snow was frozen hard as ice, and quite as slippery, when Kate and Miss Starr, by Mrs. Spriggs's permission, started for the post-office. All the way on their walk Kate talked of her father and her home, and felt comforted in having some one to pour out her anxiety to. It was bitter cold, as I have said, and Kate and Miss Starr were nearly frozen when they reached the post-office and received the dreaded and longed-for letter, with news from her home. Kate's heart sank when she saw the strange writing on the envelope; it was a short note from Mr. Mason, telling her her father was very ill, and they wanted her home as soon as possible. She must telegraph when she would leave, and he would meet her half way on the road, and take her home, as he could not possibly come for her. 
               Poor child! What a face it was of agony and bewilderment she raised to her companion! "Anything but papa! Anything but papa!" The choking sobs burst forth, and she hid her face on Miss Starr's shoulder. "Oh, Miss Starr! you do not know what a father he has always been!" She sobbed as though her heart would break. 
               "Don't cry so, dear; it may not be as bad as you think." 
               "Yes, but if I were only at home." 
               "You will soon be there, dear; don't cry so." Miss Starr pressed a kiss on the bowed head, while her own eyes were blinded with tears. They were entirely forgetful of where they were, and unconscious of the commiserating glances from those around them. "Hope for the best, Kate; you must try and keep up, you have so much to do." 
               "What will I do? What will I do?" She appeared utterly bewildered and hopeless when her own helplessness struck her. 
               "We must find out about the different trains, and then telegraph when you will leave." Poor helpless little Miss Starr looked quite a business woman when she went to ask: the advice of the postmaster, and sent a message through him to the telegraph office. 
               Kate would not be able to leave until the next morning, for there was no through train until, that time; and they found she would lose time instead of gaining by going that night. She was perfectly bowed down by her grief, for she had anticipated the worst from the first; and possibly it was as well that she had done so. What an interminably long night it appeared as she lay counting the hours, for she could not sleep. Miss Starr had packed her trunk, and everything was arranged for her, for every one was very kind to her in her trouble. 
               Poor child! how long and endless that night of waiting seemed! "Why did they send her away?" was the burden of her cry. "Papa has not worn his scarf; I used to make him do it, for he is so forgetful; and mamma and Florie never notice what he does' The sobs again burst forth when she remembered her father, and the many loving words and caresses she received for her care of him. So the weary night wore on, and at last the day dawned, much to the relief of both watchers; for Miss Starr had shared her vigil with her, and had done all she could to comfort her. Kate tried to control herself and appear more composed, as Mrs. Spriggs had said she doubted if she would be able to go, and any doubt on that point strengthened her. 
               It was a very pale, though tearless face, that greeted the morning light, and quick and nervous were the hands that assisted her in dressing. She could not take anything but a cup of tea; tea, such as Mrs. Sprigg's young ladies never received, was taken and swallowed to satisfy her, and then Kate's hurried good-bys were spoken, and she was on her way to the station long before the time the train could possibly be expected. 
               Her only idea was to hurry, hurry, as though it would bring her nearer home; anything to be doing something to help her on her way, it was her only relief. She thought of her rough ride over the stones the day she had first arrived in Pittsfield, and wondered how she could ever have been so light-hearted; she felt stunned by her great sorrow, and. as though she were walking in a different world. Miss Starr did all she could to comfort her, but it was of no avail, she had imagined the worst at first, and had entirely given up hope. 
               Take good care of your pocket-book, dear." Miss Starr, who had traveled but little, and had a great horror of pickpockets, handed Kate her pocket-book and car-ticket, which she had purchased for her. 
               "Yes, thank you very much, aged P.; you have been so kind to me'-a sickly smile for a moment brightened her wan face. "I do not know what I am doing, and I am giving you so much trouble." 
               "Don't talk so, Kate, you have always given me more pleasure than trouble. How I shall miss you!" A tear trickled slowly down her cheek when she thought of the bright young life that was drifting far away from her own, and the sweet young face she might never see again. 
               "I will write to you, Miss Starr, as soon as I can; you have been so kind." Kate tried her best to smile as she gave her companion a hurried kiss, and then the train was in motion. It was a long journey, and it appeared almost impossible to wait, the distance seemed so interminable. Kate's whole life was reviewed by her while she waited through those many weary hours. It was hard to see the people reading and interested in what went on around them; and it was hard that the sun should shine so brilliantly, it appeared a mockery. Poor Kate, weary and miserable, waited as best she could to know the worst. 
               It was a tiresome journey, from very early in the morning until quite late in the day, before she reached the station, where she was met by Mr. Mason; and poor, bewildered Kate felt stunned as she watched the hurrying, eager figures of her fellow-travelers on the move. Laughing and talking so carelessly, it appeared strange that they could do it, and it made her sick to hear them. It seemed as though the world should stand still, something should happen to show her sympathy in her great trouble. But no, everything was going on the same. "Every one might die and the world would still go on." Kate choked down the bitter sobs as she stood in utter bewilderment watching the hurrying crowd. 
               Mr. Mason had not been able to come for her, but he was waiting for her at this station, which was thirty miles from New London. It was the only place that she was obliged to change cars, and he thought rightly that Kate, in her sorrow, would not be able to take care of herself. He was watching eagerly for her, and the next moment was by her side. 
               "Kate! dear child!" Mr. Mason took her trembling hand in his, while he led her to the carriage. She knew the whole sad story when she saw his face, and could not question him. 
               "You are very tired, Kate?" 
               "Oh, no! Can't we go home?" It was her only idea, and the only want she was conscious of. 
               "Yes; we can; but I am afraid you are too tired to do any more tonight." 
               "No, I am not tired; can't we go?" 
               "Yes; but we will have to drive fast to meet the train, for I see by my watch you are late." Mr. Mason leaned out of the carriage window, and gave the driver directions to hurry as much as possible. 
               "You are very tired, my poor child!" He stroked the small, gloved hand which lay wearily in his. 
               "Yes; but papa!" The large tears fell on the hand he was stroking so tenderly, and then the sad story was told her, often interrupted by her for explanations. 
               "Your father had not been as well as usual all winter, and did not take proper care of himself; he was put in all weather, for they were holding the closing examinations at the college. A bad cold and sore-throat confined him to the house for several days, and your mother thought he was much better, though his throat still troubled him. She has had much anxiety in taking care of Florence, who has had a bad attack of diphtheria, and is not strong yet; and your father, who also was very ill with the same disease, is happy now, Kate. Mr. Mason could not help kissing the agonized face that was turned so eagerly to him drinking in every word. 
                
               "Keep your head there, dear." He put her poor, weary head on his shoulder. "I am your brother, Kate, and will take care of you. Try to think of your father as happy, and at rest, and be strong for those at home. Your mother was worn out watching Florie, and is entirely broken down now; and Florie is far from strong yet, so you see, dear, I hope all from your care. 
               "There, cry there, as much as you please, it will do you good." As she made an effort to raise her head and thank him for his kindness. "You must be my strong and brave Kate, as you have always been; you will help me to take care of those you love. There is so much to do, and I will need all your help." 
               "But why did not you send for me? Oh! why was I not at home?" 
               "Don't, dear! it can't be helped now, and it was all done for the best,-your father would not hear of your being sent for, as he said he was not ill; and we had no idea he was so ill; he changed so rapidly for the worse toward the last, there was no time. He talked much about you when he could, and said you must be a comfort to your mother. You will try to be, won't you, Kate, for his sake?" 
               "Yes." A long, shuddering sigh was her only answer. "Papa was more to me than any one; you never knew what a father he was." 
               "Yes, I know, Kate dear; but you will feel better when you see him, he looks so peaceful and happy. It is hard for the living, who are left to mourn; but the dead are truly blessed, for they are at rest" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               IT was quite late when they reached New London, and Kate was at last home; but what a homecoming it was, so different from the last! She recalled it only too vividly; each familiar object added to her grief, as all around her was so alive with memories of her father. She was too tired and miserable to give her grief any expression; and as she sat with her hand closely clasped in Mr Mason's, he felt how perfectly powerless he was to comfort her. 
               She was not noisy in her trouble, as her mother and Florence had been; she appeared as though all life was deadened in her, she was so passive, hopeless, and miserable. But at last the carriage stopped before the house, and old Auntie, who had been long waiting for their coming, stood in the open door to see her darling, shading her eyes from the glare of the street lamp, which was directly in front of the house. 
               "Miss Kate!" Her small, white hand was covered with kisses, while it was held tightly in that of her old nurse. "We've wanted you so home, honey!" 
               "Yes, Auntie, take me to him." Kate's eyes were raised in mute agony to her old friend's, while she thought that her father and all that pertained to him was already a thing of the past. No father to meet her, no warm words, or caresses; and the tall, stooping, awkward form of the professor, so dear to all who knew him, was at last at rest. 
               "See your ma first, honey!" Auntie, who hardly knew what to do, and dreaded her darling's sorrow, looked pleadingly at Mr. Mason for assistance. 
               "No, Auntie, I must go to him first." Kate put her hand in Charlie's, who was already leading the way. She had never been in the presence of death before, and she held his hand very tightly while she looked at her father. 
               Death had been very kind to him, the heavy knotted lines had been smoothed out, and all was calm and peaceful in the still, white face; Kate hardly knew him, so great was the change,-all the weary puckers and wrinkles were gone, and every feature was in perfect repose. It was wonderful the likeness between the father and daughter, now that his face was at rest. Every feature was the same,-the delicately-cut mouth, and even the expression the same, only Kate's large, loving, dark eyes, which shadowed her whole face, in her father's face were closed. She stood looking longingly at the familiar face, still so strange, till at last a large, old-fashioned seal ring he had always worn caught her eye, and then the tears burst forth, while the dear, cold hand was covered with kisses. 
               "Oh, papa! papa!" Kate's bowed head rained down kisses on her father's hand. "How calm and peaceful he looks; I never saw him so before, Auntie." Her tear-blistered face was raised appealingly to her old nurse, who stood sobbing by her. 
               "You are happy, calm, and peaceful. Papa! papa! If Florie and mamma had only cared more! If I had never gone away; no one loved you as I did! Oh, papa! Why did you send me away? It might not have been." 
               Poor Kate did not know of the other life that might have been if her mother had shown more sympathy, and indulgence of his studious habits; as she said she had never seen his face so before,-all the weary puckers and wrinkles had come before his daughter was old enough to understand and sympathize with him. 
                      
                        "For of all sad words of tongue or pen, 
                        The saddest are these: 'It might have been!'" 
                     
                  
                
               Surely her father's spirit was hovering near, for, as she raised her head, she looked more comforted than she had done since hearing the sad news. 
               "He looks so happy, Auntie." Her tired, white face was laid on Auntie's shoulder, who was busy wiping the thickly falling tears from her own eyes. 
               "Yes, honey, he surely is at rest, if it is in the power of mortal man to be so. But come to your ma, she's been a wantin' of you sore, honey." 
               Ever since her husband's death Mrs. Ashton had appeared perfectly broken-hearted; she missed him in every moment of her life; for, though eccentric, Professor Ashton had been a good husband and kind father; and now that he was gone, and his loving care could not be replaced, his wife realized all that he had been to her. Florence was very weak, for she had hot recovered from her recent illness, and, as she was noisy in her grief, she was not much comfort to her mother. Then Mrs. Ashton, who had always leaned on some one, and had only been aroused during her husband's and child's sickness, was very willing to fall back in her place and rely on Kate for everything. Her strong likeness to her father was an additional tie, and the childish awkwardness that she had outgrown was lamented by her mother, as making her less like her father. 
               Death had been very kind to him: not only were all the wrinkles smoothed out of that fair, white brow, but all the wrinkles and crotchets were smoothed out of his life, and, if remembered, were treasured by loving hearts. It was well her mother relied so much on Kate, as the great necessity of exertion deadened the keen anguish of her sorrow, so she did not have much time for sad thought. 
               Aunt Judson of course was with them, for she was always in her element on such occasions. She shed enough tears for the man she had ridiculed through life to have sufficed the whole family; and while she was busy bringing to light some trait of character she had always admired, so she said, though her admiration was so carefully hidden that it had never been known before, she was worrying her sister, and driving Kate almost crazy, by little, silly words and speeches that had no meaning, but she thought sounded well, and made her look interesting. Instead of helping Kate, when she had so much to attend to, she talked of her more refined feelings, and wondered how Kate had the strength to do her duty as she was then doing, 
               "She was very much afraid Kate was not sensitive. Oh, dear! what a pity a young girl should be so wanting in proper delicacy!" Aunt Judson blew her large, red nose so feelingly that it grew redder than ever. "When she was young, children were so different, children loved their parents dearly! But the world grew more heartless every year. Sister, do you remember our dear father?" The handkerchief was again in requisition, while Mrs Ashton sobbed in echo. 
               Kate, did you love your grandfather?" 
               Kate had to say she did not, for she had never known him, and then was driven out of the room by an outburst of grief from her aunt on the wickedness of the world, and children's wickedness in particular. Mrs. Judson also talked of heavy afflictions being food for the soul, and bringing us nearer to the other world, which is all very well; but it would have been so much better to have been cheerful, and encouraged her sister, instead of depressing her more and more, and making Kate's burden harder to bear. It is all very well to talk about being good Christians and loving one another, but it is much better to do such things, and not talk so much about them. It would have been a great deal better if Mrs. Judson had seen to the housekeeping, and taken care of their daily wants, so as to assist Kate; she also might have helped her with the puzzled accounts and bills that came pouring in. Grief is hard enough to bear, and it is certainly the part of friends to help, instead of crushing us to the earth. 
               Charles Mason was kind and good, and did all he could to help Kate and cheer her, and also did his part in taking care of and comforting them all; but a man cannot take a woman's place on such occasions. Then Florence was far from well, and gave them great cause for anxiety; though it was not surprising, as her father's death, coming directly after her own illness, had been a great shock. She had never appeared to care much for her father, or for being with him during his lifetime; but now that he was gone, she realized all that she had lost; and his kind love and constant care were always before her; and she remembered the careless, worn figure, that she had been ashamed of through life, with love and reverence, now that he was gone. 
               Kate had her hands very full, and had every need for exertion; the house was in the greatest disorder, and their various daily wants must be attended to. Then so many people called, no doubt in kindness, to hear about her mother and the professor, whom they had all loved; and she had to go over the sad story so many times that she was utterly wearied out. 
               Then Aunt Judson did all she could in the way of depressing her mother, and only made her task harder. If she could have told her to go, they would all have been so much better without her, for she did nothing to assist them. 
               The funeral was over, and the man whom every one in the place had known and loved was laid at rest. New London would never have another Professor Ashton; a man of his great intellect, and so simple and childlike at heart that he won all hearts, it was impossible to fill his place. Mrs. Ashton sat in her darkened room and brooded over her grief, for she was very selfish in her trouble, as weak natures usually are. She clung to Kate; and if the girl was absent from her room for any length of time she was called back to answer some silly question, or perform some duty equally as foolish, till she felt so weary and unstrung she hardly knew where to turn for rest. Kate could have walked miles, and worked for hours, and still felt fresh and equal for more; but when she had been with her mother, a little while, she felt so weakened and unnerved that she was not equal for any further exertion. 
               "Sometimes I feel as though I were becoming an idiot," she would say when she laid her head on Auntie's shoulder. "If mamma would only be quiet, if she has nothing to say. Sometimes I think it is a pity I am not mamma, and she is not me; I am so much older in every way than she will ever be." 
               Did you never see this in life? A person old in years, "so that when you think of their age you feel as though you should reverence and respect them, but utterly without the dignity and experience, that should come with advancing years. Carrying with them all the foolishness they have had since a child, without the child's innocence and guilelessness to make it attractive. It is very wearing, having to do with such natures, as Kate Ashton knew. Oh, if the Mrs. Nicklebys of this world had only all died when Dickens wrote his great book! But they did not, as many of us know to our sorrow. How often we see in life the best parents having the worst children, and it has been so often observed in minister's families that it. has become quite proverbial. And then again we see some strong, young, joyful spirit crushed down by the foolishness and weakness of a parent. 
               Mrs. Ashton was not of a cheerful disposition, she would make crosses for herself when they did not come naturally; and at present she made the most of her trouble. She did not regret her husband's loss out of any great love for him, but simply from selfish motives. She missed his constant care, and felt that she could not hold the same place in New London as she had done during the professor's lifetime. 
               The professor had been very careless with all he owned, so his wife knew their circumstances would be straitened, which was another great grievance. Therefore she clung to Kate, and bemoaned her sad fate, and proposed all sorts of wild schemes for their mutual advancement, no one of which could ever be carried out, for it would never do to depress her bright Florence. 
               Florence had all her love, and anything to add to her pleasure and comfort that her mother could give her she must have; but the youngest sister must bear the burden and heat of the day, for she was destitute of nerves. Poor Kate, who felt alive and sore at every point, but fought down her own feelings when she saw the need for exertion. How little her mother saw and appreciated the struggle she made to keep up! It was true, Florence was far from strong, and at present there was some excuse for the distinction. Kate felt anxious about her sister, and tried to encourage her to go out, doing all she could to cheer her. But Kate and Mr. Mason both grew discouraged, she did so little to help herself. The doctor proposed change of air; but what could they do? So finally Charlie took the whole matter in his own hands, saying they must be married immediately, as he then could take her away himself. 
               Kate was more busy than ever completing her sister's preparations, for Florence was to have been married soon after Kate's term at school closed, and Professor Ashton had intended bringing Kate home for tie wedding, when all his plans for life were ended. It was necessarily a very quiet wedding, no one being present but their own immediate family; but it was certainly a great relief to Kate, when she kissed her sister good-by, to feel that she was in safe hands and would soon be well again; for the doctor said that change of air was all she needed to regain her strength. 
               Kate only now had her mother to think of; and, as Mrs. Ashton was more composed, her task was not as hard as it had been. The Judsons were a great deal with them; for Mr. Judson had taken all of Mrs. Ashton's little fortune to invest for her, so that Kate and her mother's minds were relieved of that anxiety. Kate was very grateful to her uncle for his kindness, and was sorry she could not like him more than she did. We often see a child shun a snake or toad, or anything disgusting and disagreeable, and we call it instinct: it was a great pity that Kate's instinct in this case had not served as a warning to her mother. It was unfortunate Mrs. Ashton and Kate did not know more about business, for they relied entirely on Mr. Judson's word, and he had given them no receipt for the money. I doubt though, even if they had known, if they would have required such a pledge, for they were too honorable one moment to suspect dishonor in another. 
               Florence would soon be home again; and their thoughts were much occupied with her. She Wrote cheerful letters, and spoke of herself as quite strong, and Kate felt more hopeful than she had done for a long time. She had much to do in helping to arrange her sister's house for her return, and Mrs. Ashton was beginning to take some interest also, and grew quite lively over different colors suitable for her parlor furniture. 
               Kate had long letters from George,-he had been promoted, and was now a captain. The girl's love was becoming the greater part of her life, for George was always in her thoughts. Often when she was troubled and tired,-for she had much to think of,-she would steal off by herself and read his last letter over and over again, and then she felt so happy, strong, and thankful that she was ready for anything. Even the envelope, the familiar handwriting, was enough to send her off in her day-dreams. She was so harassed, that her face had a strange, Weary look for one so young. But let her be alone and she was in her dreamland, and for the time happy. The pictures she drew were often so brilliant that they quite dazzled her with their glare of sunlight. 
               Thus two weeks passed away, and then Charlie, who did not like the tenor of Kate's letters, and pitied the young girl commencing her life so sadly, wrote an urgent letter to her mother, begging that she should join Florence and himself in New York, and go from there with them to spend a couple of weeks in Washington. Kate had never visited the capital of her country, and the scheme sounded delightful, particularly as her home was so dark and sad, everything reminding her of her father. She hesitated, not liking to leave her mother, when her hesitations were entirely overruled by Mrs. Ashton, who insisted on her going. Mrs. Ashton was in much better spirits, and, like all weak natures, needing something to lean on, she was very willing to throw her troubles on Charlie's shoulders, and have him take care of the whole family, if he were willing to have done so. 
               It was not until Kate was in the cars that she remembered that she had not seen her friend the hermit since her return home, and she felt troubled by the seeming forgetfulness, and often thought of him during her stay in Washington. In losing her father she had lost so much that she dreaded to lose more; and then, too, she pitied the poor, lonely man's solitary life, and knew that he had grown fond of her. 
               Kate and Florence had a pleasant but, necessarily, quiet time; they did a great deal of sight-seeing, and besides made many pleasant acquaintances. She made among others the acquaintance of a young girl named Celia Brandon, who was making a visit at a cousin of Mr. Mason's; and though she did not admire the girl, she was strongly interested in her history. But, as Celia Brandon is destined to form more than a passing object, in her life, we will not for the present say anything more about her. 
               Enough to say that Kate did not forget George in her pleasures; but that his letters were quite as eagerly read, and reread, and that she returned home improved in health and in strength and in much better spirits. 
               A month had passed since Florence was married, and she was in her own house. It was pretty to see her little womanly airs and the pleasure she took in her first tea-party. Love had made her much more lovable; and I don't think Charles Mason could have found a sweeter little wife than Florence proved. It was true her every wish was gratified, for Charlie took the greatest pleasure in spoiling her; and, as he was well provided with all this world's great gifts, he could do it to his heart's content, and Florence bore the spoiling gracefully. 
               Kate thoroughly enjoyed seeing her sister so happy, and mamma too was almost her old self, spoiling Florie with the rest. Was it any wonder if the girl grew selfish? If Kate had been in her place I think her heart would have grown larger instead of contracting, for in receiving so much love she would have had so much more to give. Kate, however, was Kate, and Florence was Florence, two different characters. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               ONE morning, Kate, tired of home, and longing to get away for a time, started, with Henry Blake, one of their neighbor's sons, across the river to visit the old fort. She had not seen her friend the hermit since she returned home; and she felt in a way she could not understand that he could comfort her. The old fort, with its crumbling ruins, only reminded her more forcibly of her loneliness; and, as her boy companion wandered off, bent on making discoveries, Kate gazed tearfully round her, thinking of her father and George, and the blank that had come in her life. 
               George's letters were growing more unsatisfactory, and Kate was beginning more and more to feel the want, though she hardly understood where the trouble lay. Her young heart was very heavy as she looked across the river at the spires of the New London churches, or watched the ferry-boats leisurely plowing their way through the calm, blue water. She had often watched them before so joyfully, but now a strange sorrow hung over all she looked on; and, as she brushed away the quickly falling tears, she tried to be interested in some treasure Henry had brought to show her. 
               "May I go round to the other side of the fort the boy questioned. "Here is the hermit coming; you won't be afraid?" Kate was not afraid, and was glad to be rid of his many questions. A sad smile played round her lips as she rose to welcome the man. 
               "You have been ill?" 
               "No, I have had a great sorrow." Her mouth trembled, and a large tear trickled down her cheek. "My father is dead." 
               "Dead? It is a strange world! some would be so happy in being dead; and it is only the most missed who are so taken." 
               His restless eyes were fixed upon the water. "It looks peaceful and calm,-one plunge, and all would be over forever!" 
               "Don't talk so!" Kate laid her soft hand on his, forgetting her own sorrow in anxiety to comfort him. "Did you miss me? I have not seen you for a long time." 
               "I miss no one, child!" Again that wild, weary look. 
               "And not George?" Kate's eyes were very reproachful, though he did not appear to hear her question. "Stay and talk with me." When he made a movement as if to go. "Let me tell you what I saw and heard when I was away." She was anxious to distract his thoughts. 
               "I heard such a touching love story that I intend one day to write out; though no one will care to read it, now that papa is gone." Her voice faltered. "There!" She pointed to a large stone, while she seated herself on one quite near, while the man dreamily did as she bade him. "When I was in Washington I met so many nice people. There was one young girl named Celia Brandon: I heard such a strange story about her. Don't you care to hear it?" For he had put his hand to his head as though tired. 
                
               "Yes, child." 
               "This Celia Brandon was several years older than I am, and very beautiful, though cold. She had refused many offers, and made many men unhappy. I did not like her from the first, but I could not help being interested in her. Don't you care to hear about her?" As he again made the same weary motion of his hand to his head. 
               "Yes, go on, child." 
               "This Celia Brandon was a Southern girl, from Mississippi, I think, though I am not quite sure. The love story was her mother's. Many years ago this Celia's mother,-I wish I could remember her last name, her first was the same as her daughter's." Kate beat her foot impatiently. "Celia's mother was engaged to be married to her cousin, Max Osborne; I remember his name because I liked it, and it is not a common name. Celia's mother was very lovely, and very happy in her love; they were to be married in a week, and the house was filled with gay, young people, Charles Brandon, Celia's father, being among the number. 
               "Celia changed and grew cold to her lover from the time of Charles Brandon's coming, and Max Osborne read the truth. She no longer cared for him, but loved another. One evening they were out boating,-it was only two days before they were to be married,-and Max Osborne, in leaning over the boat to get a flower for Celia, fell in the water, and was never seen again. It was a great shock, and she was ill for many weeks; people could not understand how the accident had happened, for he was a good swimmer; but when his will was read, made the day before the accident had happened, the mystery tery was explained. He intended to commit suicide, knowing that Celia loved another. He wrote her a letter telling her to marry Charles Brandon, and in the event of her ever having a daughter she must name her Celia, after herself. 
               "His will left all of his immense fortune, comprising two large plantations, to this daughter on her attaining her twenty-first birthday, unless another Max Osborne. appeared to claim it. During the intervening time the money was to remain in trust for five years, and should no such child be born, was bequeathed to some remote heir. You are not tired?" Kate paused. 
               "No, child." He was looking dreamily at the water as though he hardly heard her. 
               "Of course there was a great deal of talk, the affair was so mysterious; but as he had no near relative,-his mother and father being dead,-and he having no brothers or sisters to take an interest, it was after awhile forgotten. Celia's mother married Mr. Brandon, and their daughter Celia has been indulged, and petted in every way, she being brought up with the expectation of being a great heiress. She was not quite twenty when I saw her in Washington, a proud cold, disagreeable girl, who I could not like. I have tired you?" Kate paused again, and tried to take his hand, which he drew out of her grasp. 
               "No, child." Again that weary motion of his hand to his head. 
               "Henry is coming back for me. I have not tired you? won't you say good-by?" she pleaded. 
               "There, child, there" he pushed her hand away a second time, while Kate rose to her feet. 
                
               "I have so many flowers for you, Kate. Look I" The boy held his well-filled hands toward her, wanting her admiration. 
               "Thank you, Henry; I am afraid I have tired Mr. Smith' She spoke regretfully, as she placed her hand on the boy's shoulder. "I wish had not told him that sorry, I thought it would distract his thoughts, and I have only wearied him." 
               "We will be too late if we don't hurry; come, Kate! The ferry-boat is crossing the river, and will be back in half an hour." 
               "I am so sorry!" Kate murmured, as she looked back. "Oh, Henry!" She snatched her hand from her companion's, and hurried back to the man, who sat with his head bowed in his hands. 
               "Revenge! Revenge!" The bowed head was raised, and he shook his clinched fist at the water, while his face was distorted with passion. 
               "Mr. Smith,"-Kate paused, frightened, never having seen him so before. "Mr. Smith!" Her hand was laid timidly on his arm, only to be dashed off passionately. 
               "You here again, child?" Kate almost felt as though she were dreaming; all the anger was gone from his face, and the sad, wistful expression had returned. 
               "I was afraid you were not well." 
               No, child, go." The man again resumed his seat, while Kate turned to join her companion. But as she left him she heard the same words almost shrieked, and on looking back saw him in the same attitude as before, shaking his clinched fist at the water. 
               "He is crazy; come, Kate, we will be too late." Henry, with all a boy's eagerness and impatience, almost dragged her from the place. "He is crazy, Kate; what is the use of staying? Every one says so." The boy again pulled her hand, to attract her attention. 
               "It would be very sad if it were so, Henry, and I don't believe it." Kate sighed wearily as she turned to look back; every thing appeared to be going wrong, and sorrow cast its shadows on all around her. 
               Time takes the keen edge off of sorrow, and Kate had so much to attend to, she had not any opportunity for idle thought; for even if employed not pleasantly, the hours will not stand still, and it is only the idle who are truly unhappy. Thus the time wore away until spring; Kate was busy, and almost happy in being busy; for she was young, and the blood flowed healthily and cheerily through her veins. She often thought of, and sorrowed for, her father, but it was only when she was, alone, as she tried always to be cheerful for her mother's sake. 
               A great trial was coming to my heroine. Mr. Judson, who Mrs. Ashton trusted implicitly, had invested her little fortune in some grand hocus-pocus speculation, and in one day Mrs. Ashton found all she owned swept away. At least so her brother-in-law told her, though the people in New London said that Mr. Judson had invested his own money, which he had lost, and then had taken his sister-in-law's money to repair his losses. I think this was true version, for a man would hardly invest trust-money in anything so hazardous unless he were a fool, which Mr. Judson was not; and then also Mr. Judson promised to repay the money in time; and why should he, who was not a generous man, and had never given his nieces the most trifling present, promise to repay, or make a present of a large sum of money, unless it were a just debt? Human nature is not so generous, and Mr. Judson, all through his life, and by what followed afterward, proved that he was the least generous and honorable of his race. 
               Mrs. Ashton was not his only creditor. There was a poor invalid, who had not walked for years, who had confided all she owned to him; and her little fortune was also lost in the great gulf this honest man created. This man, who had talked so much about family and proper persons to associate with! Honest fellow! True, he wore broadcloth, and the hand of the law was not laid upon him; but I ask you frankly, reader, do you think such men are any better than those poor wretches who are taken daily to our station-houses and called pickpockets? 
               Yes, it was all gone. But to show the character of the man more plainly, there were a few hundred dollars that became due from the payment of a house Mrs. Ashton had sold. The money was given to Mr. Judson a few months after the loss of her property; and Mr. Judson put the money in his pocket for his own uses, as he had done with all the rest; and it was only through the influence of a friend and the threat of a lawsuit this last little mite was recovered. Years afterward, Mr. Mason, indignant at the treatment his mother-in-law had received, and tired of Mr. Judson's promises, commenced a lawsuit, when this courtly gentleman, who could find no one equal to associate with, pleaded the bankrupt law. It is well there are not many such men in this world, or we would lose all faith in human nature; but there is a just God, who judges all men rightly, and such gain cannot prosper. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THINGS were certainly looking very gloomy for Mrs. Ashton and Kate since the loss of Mrs. Ashton's property. There, was no chance of Kate's having any excitement on her first essay into the world; no flounces and frills for her, but hard, grinding poverty. She, however, bore her troubles bravely, and only buckled on her armor more tightly for the battle. 
               Fortunately, they had still a few thousands left to struggle on with,-Kate's little fortune; for Florence had taken hers when she was married, and Kate's portion was all that was left them. I don't know what they would have done without it, but as it was, Kate made up her mind to do the best she could with that little. In the first place, their servants must be discharged, for they could not afford to keep them any longer; and Kate went down to her old nurse to tell her of their trouble. 
               "Auntie, do you know mamma has lost all her money, and we are very poor?" Kate's face was tired and perplexed, for she had been, busy all morning going over long columns of figures, trying to settle their puzzled accounts. 
               Hedges! Miss Kate, and where is it all gone to honey?" Auntie's eyes were fixed on the fireplace, as though she thought the money had gone up the chimney, while Kate tried her best to make her understand their loss. 
                
               "Well, Miss Kate! Do you know, honey, I had the peskiest dream the other night you ever heard on. I dreamed of water, and it was that muddy! That's sure to be bad, you know! And then I dreamed of horses, and that's a sure sign of news." Auntie, who was a great believer in dreams, shook her head argumentatively, fully satisfied that she had said something comforting, while she drew closer to her young mistress and tried to smooth her rippling, curly hair. 
               "Miss Kate, you are muddling of your head with the figgers." Auntie's face was full of sympathy while she spoke. "Never you mind, there is a deal worse luck nor losing money. Why, it would be the making of this lazy old nigger just to have to wheel about quicker, and stir her stumps more. Why, they's that crooked and stiff, just with standing idlin', that of times I don't know what has come to them. Then there is them two niggers doing nothing but giggle and whisper whenever Ben Styles chances to pass. They thinks this chile sees nothin'! She is up to snuff, and knows the difference atween a wax candle and a tallow dip. You can't throw sand in-her eyes!" 
               "But, Auntie," Kate interrupted, "you are getting too old for any but light work, and I think it would be better if you could get an easier place. I know you can get one." 
               "Miss Kate, do you want to throw old Auntie over 'cause she is gettin' old and worthless?" She raised her hand to her eyes. 
               "No, Auntie, you know how distressed I shall be to have you leave us. Florie would like to have you live with her, and we might get a good, strong woman, who could rough it better than you can." Kate's eyes were full of tears as she spoke. 
               "I had rather stay along of you, honey, than live in clover with Miss Florie; and there is a deal more work in these old hands than you thinks on. Why, you are a laughing at me, honey,-your work is nothing." She sniffed disdainfully. "There is only you and the missus now to fend for,-just as if this chile couldn't manage that." Auntie gave another indignant sniff. 
               "I never could hear a heap of idle folks round, and there is that Becky, she is so high butter wouldn't melt in her mouth, and I am just sick of seeing them flirty ways and graces of her'n, and those fineries she puts on her back just takes the flavor out of the victuals for me. Then there is Susan, that stuck-up, 'cause she has got part white blood in her veins, there is no getting nothin' out of her. Why, I says to her the other day, honey, that I had rather be blacker nor any coal than to have the leavin's of white blood in my veins as she has in hers. And, I would." Auntie nearly rubbed her nose off in her indignation. 
               "Now, we'll just make a clean clearin' of the whole pack, and Auntie will fend for the missus and her baby, or she would be ashamed of her lazy old bones." The old woman's eyes were full of tears, while she again put her hand on the young girl's shoulder, and smoothing back her hair, looked admiringly in her puzzled face. 
               "You would just study your head clean off of your shoulders if you hadn't old Auntie to look after you, honey. God bless her! but she is like Mas'r John." Auntie's little, low, nervous laugh had more of sorrow than mirth in it. 
                
               We see by the foregoing conversation she had quite made up her mind, and would not hear of any change, and Kate had not the heart to insist, she felt so lonely and unstrung; and it certainly would be a great relief if Auntie could stay, for home would not be home at all without the old nurse. 
               Kate thought over her little fortune, and was trying the great problem of making two dollars take the place of three. Suddenly, a new thought came, dazzling her with its brightness; she had scribbled all her life, and her father had liked her stories: what if she could write a book? She would try. 
               Kate looked as though she intended work, as, pencil and paper in hand, she commenced her task. She never did anything deliberately, as other people, but must always commence directly. Begin at once and do it, was her maxim; and when work is to be done, it is surely the right way. She did not know the giant task that lay before her, and the many difficulties and disappointments that would come before she could, if ever, succeed. 
               She had no experience, and did not know how to set about her new task, and the crowding, worrying thoughts ran not in her busy brain, and would not be controlled. Her love shone all through her life, and her dreams smoothed out all the rough angles, and helped to glorify everything in her eyes. She was our strong, passionate, loving Kate, and in sickness or trouble she was constant, and ready to take full share of duty, never murmuring, but would have borne all so lightly that the sense of obligation would have been entirely lost. When Florence was married, Kate had worked for her sister, and never counted the cost, but had even given the best of her little store; but it was all for-gotten now, and Kate was left to work on alone. She cared not for herself, but her mother was her great trouble; would Florence let her work on as she was doing, and never see the effort, for Kate was too proud to appeal to her brother-in-law. They had very little money in the bank,-hardly enough for their simplest wants,-and Kate had much anxiety to make that little do, for she had full control of all. Her mother never willingly assumed responsibility, but gladly shifted the whole burden on her daughter's shoulders, content to spend her surplus energy in bemoaning her husband's want of forethought in not leaving them better provided for,-not blaming the one who most merited blame, in losing all the professor's-hard-earned savings. 
               This troubled Kate more than actual want, hearing her dead father's name brought in on all occasions as a subject for example and reproach, for Mrs. Ashton had entirely recovered her sorrow at her husband's loss, and his name was more often used as a reproach by her than in any other way. 
               Kate tried at first talking to her mother, but she soon found she could not expect any assistance from her, as Mrs. Ashton did nothing but bemoan her sad fate, and long for things it was impossible for her to have. It was strange she could not understand her child's need of comfort; but some people never do understand what they do not want to, and Kate might as well have talked to a stone wall as her mother, as far as convincing her on any one point was concerned. Kate sometimes felt so puzzled and disgusted after one of these talks with her mother, that she quite gave up in despair; and then she would go with her little friend, Henry Blake, across the river, and lingering round the old ort, and trying to comfort the solitary man always to be seen there, she gained new strength. The girl never thought of the seeming injustice of her own lot, of the smooth, calm sailing Florence had always had; she did try at times appealing to her sister; but if Florence would not see, she could not make her; and though she sometimes found her burden very heavy, she did not murmur or think of laying it down. 
               Her letters from George grew more and more unsatisfactory; though they were read quite as eagerly, and treasured as carefully, they did not comfort her. Sometimes there was a word, a sentence, that troubled her, and she would have liked left out, though she did not acknowledge this to herself. Still there was a something wanting, she did not know what, and she often wondered if the want did not he in herself, she felt so unstrung, at times, by all her daily cares and worries. George had been promoted, and his letters were full of himself, and his new honors, and reproaches that Kate was not more warm in her praise of him. 
               Kate said all that she could, but she was not demonstrative, and did not understand the language of flattery; and though she was sorry, and felt as though she had been selfish in thinking so much of her own trouble, when his letters came she could not praise him, for it would appear as though she were mocking him. She told him that she was very proud, and happy; and that meant a great deal more from Kate, than from most persons; and then she wrote about her troubles at home, hoping he would understand her want, for she needed comfort and sympathy sadly. George was not satisfied, but wrote her more letters filled with reproaches, and not saying one word in memory of her father, whom he had always appeared to love. The boy's character was changing, and not improving; but Kate shut her eyes to the truth, and bore all his complaints patiently, though she sometimes wondered how he could write as he did, knowing her trouble, and if he had entirely forgotten her father. 
               George was stationed near Richmond, and his letters were filled with long accounts of the gay doing of himself and his brother officers; and Kate could not help thinking it strange he should care for such things, when he knew how sad she was, and if a few paltry honors had made him so vain, that he had not time for serious thought. Then she remembered the warm love of her boy-lover, and tried to think of it, and nothing else. May-be her letters were in fault,-she had no doubt they were very stupid, and she must do her best to make the next one brighter. So the girl cheated herself, and tried to do better, though there was a longing for something, she hardly knew what, but it never came. She did wish that George was not so conscious of all he had done; but it was a glorious thing to be a soldier, and fight for your country; and then how many hardships he had to endure! The excuses for his conduct came only too readily. Poor child! she had known so little love, her passionate heart pleaded greedily for that little, and she did not know how to stifle its calls. 
               Thus Kate reasoned with herself, and was provoked that she did not feel satisfied; but she wanted sympathy so much now, and it was hard to find it wanting in the only place she could expect it. George had sent her an excellent likeness of himself in his new uniform, and she was very proud and happy in its possession. Charlie and Florence had both seen her new treasure; and Kate felt quite angry with Charlie for a whole evening because he had said there was something weak about the mouth, and he wondered if all officers wore as much gold lace. 
               She had shown the likeness in the fullness of her joy, expecting others would admire it as much as she did; and though Mr. Mason had only tried to tease her, she could not forget what he had said; and, as she held the picture, the golden mist through which she had seen it was tarnished by rougher hands than her own. 
               "It was too bad in Charlie!" And Kate thought of his words, and wished that he had not said what he did; but then Charlie was not in the army, and men who were not, often made ill-natured speeches. So Kate hugged her love closer to her heart, though she did not enjoy her new treasure as much as she had done at first; and when she looked at it, wished Charlie had held his tongue, and that George had worn his old uniform when it was taken, or, better still, that he had not worn any uniform at all. 
               She had so much to do in attending to the house that she had very little time for idle thought, as she was doing her best not to let her mother see any difference since they had only old Auntie to care for them. Then there was serious cause for trouble, as their little income was so very small it appeared almost impossible to make both ends meet. But Kate would think of her new labor, and build glorious castles in the air, while she wrote on very hard whenever she had time. The book was beginning to feel quite weighty when she held the closely-written pages in her hand. She wrote and told George of her hopes, and he wrote back a teasing letter, calling her strong-minded, and ridiculing her endeavors; so she did not write in the same way again, for she was very sensitive to ridicule. 
               Florence had her time filled up with parties and gay doings, in which Kate could not join. In the first place, she had not a suitable dress, for Kate's first appearance in society had not been as brilliant as her sister's, and then also she was very busy, and Florence did nothing to help her. So the girl lived very much in herself and her new labors, though as she wrote she often longed for her sister's sympathy and assistance in various ways, but she never found it. Her only relief was to go across the river, and, after clambering up the steep hill to the old fort, sit on the stones, and gaze at the water; and while dreaming of her father, and praying for George, do her best to distract and comfort the strange man who was never far distant when she was there. The calm river looked so peaceful, and the old fort held so many pleasant day-dreams, that she always returned refreshed and invigorated, and for the time comforted. 
               If her mother could only have gone away for a time, anything for a short space to breathe, her book would have progressed so much faster, for Mrs. Ashton's constant calls for sympathy were very wearing, and Florence and her mother were not so much together since Florence's marriage. She did not care to have her mother with her, for Mrs. Ashton was very fond of expressing her opinion, and Florence liked her own way best. She was too selfish to feel unhappy or troubled, that while she lived in a round of pleasure and comfort, Kate was left to work on alone. 
               Kate sometimes in her heart rebelled against the injustice, and thought it very hard all through their lives there should be such a difference. Charlie would have done all he could to make her life pleasanter if the way had been pointed out to him; but Kate was too proud to let him know, and treated her trials lightly before him, and Florence did not care how her sister fared as long as she was comfortable. Florie was spoiled, so her mother said, and it was all the comfort Kate had,-Florie was young, and did not think; it was very poor comfort, but it was all she received; her mother never thought, and did not realize that the same influence that had blighted her husband's life might also prove her daughter's undoing. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               "FLORENCE! Florence! can you go through life as you are doing, throwing aside all duties, and caring for nothing but yourself? You are, I hope, something better than the moth or butterfly-we cannot go through life without some care, and act as though we had no soul, unless we wish to be on a level with the brute creation. I cannot teach you what you ought to do. If love and duty do not dictate, I would utterly fair." 
               Kate raised her serious, troubled face to look at her sister, while Florence only shook her head and said, "I can't, Kate." 
               "You won't, rather, Florie. If any one had told me a year ago I would attempt to write a book I would have laughed at them as you are now doing. God helps those who help themselves; you may not be able to do much, but the power of giving grows with the giver, and after awhile you will be surprised how much you can do. You know how little I have for mamma and myself; do not think, because I say nothing I do not care whether I wear old clothes or not. It is Mr. Trollope who says he would not care a fig for a girl who was indifferent whether she wore old dresses or not. I often feel ashamed when I am with you, and wish I could look more like you. I will not speak to you again, Florie, for you know what I think; our lease will be up in a few months, and we must leave the old house unless something happens. Just think, Florence, how short a time we have to decide what to do." 
               "But, Kate, why can't you speak to Charlie? You know I don't like to talk about such things' Florence's face was pettish. 
               "I cannot speak to Charlie, Florence,-you might know better; I only tell you I cannot go on as I am now doing: some part of my life is in every chapter of my book. I cannot do things as other people do in moderation, but must go on, on. I have written till my brain fairly reeled, and then have taken a handkerchief, dipped in ice-water, and bound up my head, and written on. I think I can realize what it is to go crazy, for the last week I have had such a dull, throbbing pain in my head all the time, it actually feels sore, and is almost sensitive to the touch. Then when I go to bed I cannot sleep, but am often up writing again. The hardest of all is in copying,-I cannot see my mistakes any more, and it is just one long strain: like Mother Goose, I could tell it from beginning to end, and it is almost impossible to fix my attention, and see when I am right. I will go on to the end, Florie, and try not to complain, though it is very hard work, and I do not like it." 
               "But, Kate, what can I do?" Florence's face only grew more hopeless, while she yawned wearily. 
               "You ask me if you can help me, Florie? Not in writing; but there are a great many other things I have to attend to, and a person needs some rest. I know my book would be much better if I had more time to read, but when reading comes I am too tired to pay proper attention. If you were only with me, and could see how each day was passed, each hour counted, you would understand better. You don't know what it is to write a book in so short a time and do everything else. You cannot imagine what it is till you try to fill a sheet of foolscap paper. But enough." As her sister's only answer was a yawn. 
               "Do not think I regret it. I would like to have my task lessened, though I would not give it up; I am fond of pleasure, but I must have something more earnest in my life, and there is much need now. Don't look so solemn, little sister." Kate smiled at Florence's serious face, for I think some chord for a time was touched, though I don't doubt Florence would forget directly. 
               "Life is not all dark; this is only the cloudy side; why, Florie, I fully enjoy and revel in every cent I can give mamma, so you need not pity me. It is all my own, and I am very proud of it, and only wish I had more." 
               "But, Kate, what can I do?" Florence again said weakly. 
               "I can set you no task; if your own heart does not dictate, you would only rebel against my suggestions. Think yourself what you can do, and don't look so sober about it: don't you know half the merit of giving is the way in which it is done? If I send a friend a gift I would not write a note accompanying it, filled with groans: that would be ridiculous; and if I give a thing, I may not be satisfied with the purpose for which it is used, but it was given with my own free will, and I would never reproach the indebted person; at least I would try not to, though we see many queer things in this world. No, Florie, make light of every gift, it is the only way to make a person enjoy it; it does not make any difference how much you have denied yourself to do it, never let them know you expect any return, or you will be sure to be disappointed. 
               "Now, don't look so solemn, Florie: take all the pleasure you can; but pleasure and duty often go hand in hand. Do smile, Florie: I did not mean to make you look so sober; but it is a great comfort to have some one to tell one's troubles to." 
               "But, Kate, I never knew,-you are always so full of life." 
               "I am very glad if I am, Florie; I try very, hard to be; and if I could, I would save you from all trouble. I am not good myself, Florie, and I do not want to set myself up as a model; I am often impatient, and say many things I ought not, but I hope I will overcome that fault some day: it is a bad habit, and does hot make one lovable. I often wish I did not feel things as deeply as I do: it is very exhausting, to say the least." Kate laughed merrily. 
               "I wish you were more like other girls, and did. not make such a fuss about everything." Florence sighed. 
               "I wish I were, Florie." Kate laughed again. "Do you remember before papa's death, when you and I were staying in New York, and occasionally went to the theater or opera, how forlorn I used to look next morning, while you were as fresh as a rose? But then it gave me so much pleasure; I had so much to dream about, and was so happy. I do not mean common, ordinary plays-but in seeing Booth in Hamlet, or any of his great parts. And then the opera, Florie, when one listens to strain after strain of glorious music it certainly does lift one's thoughts above this earth; and often, though many would not understand me or sympathize with me, while I am listening, I am thanking God for making this world so beautiful. We don't always have to be on our knees to say our prayers, and often, whether in joy or sorrow, my first thought is of God's goodness. I think I have more to fight against than you have; I have a quick, impatient spirit, and feel everything more keenly than you do. It is hard to control and I often hope you will love me more for what I do than for what I say. Some day I may succeed in fighting it down, though it is a great help when real hard work is to be done." 
               "I do wish I were as good as you are, Kate. I wish I had joined church when you did." Florence sighed. 
               "Don't say that, Florie. I am not at all good, and I never yet have met a consistent Christian. I have seen many good men, but never one that satisfied me, though for that reason I do not lose faith. Some people who are most inconsistent in their actions are nearer God than we have any idea of: we cannot read a person's heart. I love George so much that I think of him all day long; but if I talked as I thought, you would think I had had no sense. Don't you often laugh and talk when you feel most sad? People must be actors more or less, or this world would not be as pleasant as it is, and they would be selfish if they yielded to their feelings in all cases. I do not want you to give up any of your pleasures, Florie; only sometimes show me you care a little for mamma, and try and help me." Kate's face was very serious. 
               "But, Kate, I never thought you cared how much you wrote, you are so much like papa." Florence spoke complainingly. 
               "I may be in fault, Florie. True, I never told you." Kate bit her lip. "I hoped you would see without my telling. Oh, Florie! if you only knew. I love to write, as you truly say, and you cannot realize or see the beauty of my dreamland. If I could only always live in a dream, how glorious it would be!" Her fair, smooth brow was troubled; then Kate bent forward and kissed her sister,-John Ashton's daughter, truly,-forgetting her object entirely, and drifting away as led by her warm, earnest heart. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               KATE is seated at an open window writing; it is one of the many endless chapters of her book that she is anxious to finish; they appear to increase in magnitude as she adds to their number, and she is almost discouraged when she thinks of what she has undertaken. She is seated by the open window, as I have said, and, as she pushes back the heavy braids of hair from her flushed face, we will pause and look at her. It is a highly intellectual, sensitive face; the rough angles have all toned down, and Kate's glorious eyes are brightened or dimmed with tears of sympathy while she writes on. We almost tremble when we look at her writing, with her whole heart on the end of her pen; some part of those many lines must be written with blood, for she is surely wearing her heart out in the struggle. 
               She is describing some of the services at St. Peter's during the Lenten season; she has never been in Rome; but though not there bodily, her soul is there while she writes, for she feels everything as plainly as if she had seen it. She is describing the church and the strains of glorious music, and Kate's eyes sparkle. Then the Pope's guards, and the foreign ambassadors, and the handsome young stranger who is gazing at the gorgeous pageant. She smiles now, for she is describing George, and it is a very glowing picture that she is drawing of him. Then the Pope is carried in, seated in the sella gestatoria, a sort of arm-chair, showering his blessing with a motion of the hand on the kneeling congregation. The girl's lip curls while she writes. 
               Now, again, her eyes are dimmed with tears, and a large drop falls on the paper. She is writing of a little girl, one of the many who followed with their banners and flowers the long throng of children as the Host is carried through the streets. The little one is a child of very poor parents; so her dress is shabby and torn, as she stands with the pretty and better-dressed children, who are waiting to be called. Her companions jeer her, and the child shrinks closer away from them, afraid of attracting more attention. She is very weak, for she has had no breakfast, and as she stands with her large, hungry eyes gazing at her companions, and pleading for mercy, it is piteous to see her. 
               Kate writes on, and the tears drop on the paper while she writes. Some one is coming, and the child hardly dares to raise her eyes to the good father who has come to hear them say over their prayers, and sing their hymns, and be sure that all is right. The child shrinks farther away, and at last his attention is attracted. "What is it, little one?" Only that her dress was torn and dirty, and that she was ashamed. But the kind father smoothed her hair encouragingly, and a sweet smile brightens for one instant the little, worn, weary face when the beautiful banner is given her and some of the flowers. Now the procession is ready to move, and the monks' voices are heard chanting as they walk slowly on. There is a break in the procession. What can be the matter? Only a little child is dead-nothing more. And that is nothing in the vast concourse. One more soul has taken its flight, the Father has gathered one more Jamb in his fold. And, as we look at the small, thin hand clutching the beautiful banner, and the pinched, worn face irradiated by that smile, would we call her back to life and suffering? No, little one, be happy. One more drop in the ocean of eternity,-one more spirit at rest. 
               This is the story that Kate is writing, and it is a living, beautiful picture that we look on. The girl is weaving her story with a pen dipped in, her own blood, as I have said; for, as we see the quickly varying color, and then hear her sob while she writes of the little child, we can realize how each nerve is strained to the utmost. 
               "If Florie would only help?" Kate brushed back her hair from her forehead, and panted for breath. The story was easy enough to write; but the copying and rereading,-what weary, weary work it was! May-be Florie would learn too late how that book was written. The girl is deathly sick, and her fingers are perfectly numb; and then how her back aches! Ever since seven o'clock she has been at her task, and now, since her color is gone, we see how much her face is worn. Kate's eyes blaze, but it is the fire of fever that is wearing her life out. 
               It was Poe, I think, or one of the great poets, who, when asked his idea of eternity, whether the soul remained in the grave or went directly to heaven, replied: God forbid that it should, for he would like to rest a thousand years. Kate was beginning to realize the poet's words. It was a hard struggle, with no one to cheer her, and her mother never appeared to realize how she made the trial harder when she encouraged Florence in extravagance. If she could have coined her heart into gold she would have done it, and thanked God when he released her from the weary struggle. It is very easy to die, and Kate smiled to herself when she heard people talk of it as being hard; but the hardest is to live such a life as she was living. So the book was written. 
               When it was first commenced she was full of hope as she wrote on, and thought she was writing for duty and love, and she thoroughly enjoyed it. Some day she might be writing for love alone, and, as she thought of George, she felt as though she could write forever. Now, however, all was changed; for, as the book grew, Kate's faith in its success failed her, and when she looked at her closely-written pages, and thought it might all be waste paper, it was a hard trial. She would tell no one how she suffered,-no one should share the uncertainty with her,-and Kate wrote on, sick at heart. 
               Florie often complained of the amount of sewing she had to do; but what was sewing or anything compared with the work she was engaged on? Kate would have laughed at her own endeavors in that way if the book were only finished, the strain on her brain was so great. Books may be written for pleasure, and be a great comfort; but no one knows till they try what weary work it is to write from necessity. To write with aching head; she did not understand the reason why it should throb as it did; she sometimes felt as though it would burst. It was hard that her little fortune should go as a matter of course, and her sister's would most likely be invested in trinkets. Florence knew exactly how it was at home, for Kate had told her; but she was too proud to be a beggar, and Florence never took the trouble to think. 
               Then, instead of making her home bright and pleasant when Kate went to see her, Florence talked of economy and household expenses, for I think her conscience reproached her; and often and often Kate would check her laughing spirit when she went up-stairs to her sister's room. If she did not complain, Florie would, and Kate's burden, was hard enough to bear without adding to it. No; Florie might buy the handsomest cloaks and bonnets, and travel as much as she pleased, but there was always an old dress to mend for her sister's benefit. Only last December, on her mother's birthday, Kate was anxious to give her some little token, to show that she remembered the day, as her father had been in the habit of doing. She had only two dollars, and she thought if it were only more how much nicer it would be; so she took her little bits of broken jewelry, and the first time she was out went to an old Jew she had read of in the paper, and so made a little money. Then, by looking in her account book, she found, by wearing woolen gloves, and saving her kid gloves for spring, she might save a little more; and Kate wore the woolen gloves, though they chapped her hands, and Florence often asked her if she did not dislike them. No; Kate did not, but wore them till they were full of holes, though her hands were always red when she took them off. This was how the money was saved for her mother; and her mother spent the same on a breastpin for Florie, of a new style that was then very much worn, that Kate admired, and had often said she would have liked to have possessed herself, but did not have the money to purchase. Always afterward, when Kate looked at the breastpin at her sister's neck, she thought it was a monument of her broken pride,-for Kate did not like woolen gloves or old Jews either. If her mother had only given part; but no, it must all go; and though Kate did not murmur, she was discouraged when she thought how foolish she had been to mortify herself, and work for a breastpin for Florence, who did not need it, and no doubt would very soon tire of it. 
               One day Florence said, thoughtlessly, "Kate, how shabby you look,-don't you care?" And Kate had answered, "Of course I do, but what can I do when we have hard enough work to manage as it is?" 
               "But, Kate," Florence looked in her sister's face, "you always appear happy." 
               "I am not one of the crying kind, Florie; so if you expect to find out my troubles in that way you never will." 
               "But, Kate, how am I to know, if you are always so cheerful?" Florence again questioned. 
               "Put yourself in my place, Florie, and think how you would like the life I lead. Don't you remember what Hood said: That he made more puns and spat more blood than any man living. Some people have a great deal of nonsense running through their brains, which keeps them up and makes them appear more happy. You never knew what it was, Florie, to laugh when your heart was almost breaking. Some people laugh to the end; but do not think they feel the less. No, ten thousand times more keenly,-the quick, active spirit, which keeps them up, only stabs more deeply." 
               "But, Kate, you are so strange. I never understand you." Florence's tone was complaining. 
               "Look here, Florie. Pro and con. I put the question. Suppose I come to see you every day and cried, and borrowed a pocket-handkerchief, don't you think you would wonder why I came? Besides, my nose chaps easily, and mamma does not like red noses. Putting feelings out of the question, the wear on your handkerchiefs would be dreadful. How could you stand such extravagance? And suppose I forgot to bring them back,-you know I often lose my own?" Kate's ringing laugh had full play. "You see, bringing plain common sense in, I think I have the best of it." 
               It was thus that Kate told of her troubles, and made light of her burden; and Florence soon forgot their conversation, and did not think of helping her sister, who worked on untiringly and uncomplainingly, and carried her burden so lightly its weight was never known. 
               All through her trials Kate was sustained by her letters from George, for though they did not satisfy her, they were a great pleasure; and that one little ray of hope helped her to bear many disappointments unmurmuringly. Sometimes she would look at her sister, loving and being loved, and wonder that when she was shut out in the cold Florie could not see. Some day her dreams might be realized; and though her quick, impatient spirit fought against delay, her only duty was to wait. George's letters were growing shorter and shorter, and though she did not acknowledge it to herself, she almost dreaded their corning; they were so unsatisfactory, and nearly always filled with complaints. She wrote long, loving answers in return, for her confidence in him was so perfect that she never doubted, but trusted on; and then the letters of her life as a school-girl were kept and treasured, so that the paper was quite worn with constant use. It was one of her greatest pleasures, when tired, to steal away to her own room and read and reread her treasures; it was no doubt very foolish in Kate, but it was the one bright spot in her life, and she clung to her faith and hope more strongly in consequence. 
               Florence, when with her sister, would often tease her about George, and say that she doubted if he ever did come home. And sometimes she would say, "Kate, I don't believe George is true, do you?" 
               Kate would stand any amount of teasing, but a doubt of his truth always roused her indignation, and her eyes would kindle and flash, and she would turn to her sister and say, "Florie, how can you say so? I am as sure of his truth as I am of my own." Kate knew how strong her own truth was, and she only judged him by her loyal, loving heart. 
               All her thoughts, when unoccupied, were with his return home covered with honors; and she would steal a shy glance at the glass, and smile back again in answer to her bright image reflected there, for the girl was developing into a very lovely woman. There was a large portrait of her father, painted many years ago, when he was quite young; her mother had it placed directly opposite the glass in their little parlor, and every one who saw it noticed the likeness between the father and daughter. Sometimes she would stand looking wistfully at the large, serious gray eyes watching her so lovingly, and then she would look at the face in the glass, her own reflection, and a proud, happy smile would play round her lips, and she felt almost like kissing her own face when she recognized the likeness. All that was rough in the man's face had toned down and softened in the girl's, and Kate grew more beautiful every day. Her mother's friends had noticed her awkwardness as a child, and it was pleasant to hear herself spoken of as beautiful and graceful. Old Auntie also noted the change, and longed for Master George to come home before all the light had gone out of her darling's eyes with too much study,-for Auntie disliked books, and anything that had any connection with ink and paper, as she firmly believed they had cost her master his life. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               IT was strange that Florence could live such a careless life, not heeding her sister's sufferings; Kate had always been serious from a child, and did not laugh as gayly and lightly as other girls of her age, but I think her serious face was more owing to the fault of circumstances, than her natural temperament, Florence knew, if she had cared to think, how keenly Kate enjoyed all pleasures that came within her reach; but Florence was happy, and her affections were not deep; then also hers was a selfish nature, and she never considered that her sister was separated from all that was pleasant to herself. 
               She did not notice how Kate wearied and longed for a change; she felt so stupid at times, she was afraid her book would be stupid also, and sometimes she was almost in despair of its success. Charlie often spoke of Kate, and said she led a strange life for a young girl, and that Florence should do something to rouse her; but Charlie did not know all the truth, or he would have acted without waiting for his wife's sanction; for he had learned to love Kate as she deserved. They were on a visit to Boston; going to the opera, and having a delightful time, Florence wrote Kate; Charlie had wanted Kate to go with them, but Florence did not second the invitation, and the pleasure was denied her, for she could not go under the circumstances. 
                
               Florence often said that Kate could not leave mamma, as she did not like being alone; but she did not care to remember how very many times mamma had been alone when Kate was away at school. It was true, Kate's dress was out of date, and shabby; but with very little care that trouble might have been remedied, and Kate had too beautiful a face and form to make much adornment necessary. She would have looked well in a plain white muslin, and attracted admiration from all; and then when she grew interested in her subject, she could talk as no one else did, so that Florence need not have been ashamed of her sister. 
               The sisters' lives were drifting farther apart, for they saw very little of each other; Kate did not like to go to Florence's house, for she always had some gay company, and she was so little with her, that she was a stranger to all her guests, and did not enjoy being with them. Then Florence paid very few visits to her mother and sister, and Kate was too proud to go often, when Florence appeared to care so little for having her. Mrs. Ashton had changed much for the worse, and was always irritable, and more tiresome than she had ever been; for she was one of those persons who do not bear poverty gracefully, but her time was wasted in vain regrets. She was very selfish, and made all around her as uncomfortable as possible; and though she still petted Florence, and did all she could to spoil her, she was cross at times even with her. Therefore Florence came but seldom to see them, and Late felt as though their lives were widely apart. 
               It was very selfish in Florence, throwing all her duties on her sister's shoulders, and not helping to lighten her burden; but Florence was much like her mother in character. She never considered how many foolish things she bought, when the money might have encouraged, and helped to smooth her sister's path, by showing she took some interest and sympathized with her. Long years ago, when they were children, Florence had said she never liked to think-it tired her; and Kate did thinking enough for the whole family: it was a silly speech, but her mother had laughed, and encouraged her in it, and Florence was carrying the same doctrine with her through life. 
               Professor Ashton had left no will, so at his death his wife received her third of the property, and the rest had been divided between his children, and taken in charge for them. Mrs. Ashton's portion had been lost, as we know, and Kate's little portion was all that was left them; for Florence had taken hers when she was married, and spent the income of each year in trifles. Occasionally she would buy her mother a wonderful cap, which she never wore,-as it would be too much dress for every-day life, and they did not have company. Mrs. Ashton was always delighted, and made a great deal of these silly presents from her dear, thoughtful little Florie; but she never considered that it was necessary to think of thanking poor Kate, whose all went for their mutual support. 
               It is not in human nature to bear such trials patiently, and Kate was often indignant, but as she fought out her indignation alone, her sister went placidly on her way and considered that she was doing her duty, and even prided herself on being generous, when she made her mother one of her ridiculous and ill-suited presents. Kate had always plodded over her books, and she supposed she was happy. Papa had done the same, was Florence's favorite excuse, and was an easy and comfortable way of settling matters. In this way Florence reasoned with herself, and her husband was taught to think as she did. She did not see much of her mother and sister, for her conscience was not perfectly easy, and she did not like a reminder; and as she was not comfortable when with them, she stayed away as much as possible. 
               Kate led a strange life for a young girl, so entirely shut in from all those pleasures attendant on youth; she would sometimes dream of a happier future, and think if she only had some, one to take care of her, and not always be taking care, what a comfort it would be. Then she would think of George, and a happy smile would play round her lips, while she wondered what he would think when he saw how much she was improved. 
               The Judsons they had never met since Mr. Judson had so well taken care of his sister-in-law's money. Mrs. Ashton had not been in her sister's house since her loss, for Mrs. J., not content with her husband's ill-doing, had helped him in adding insult to injury; and then, having feathered their nest so finely, stayed in it and were more exclusive than ever. Kate often laughingly said if her book only proved a success, she would not begrudge them the money; as it was a cheap price to pay for getting rid of a life-long nuisance, as her aunt and uncle had always been in her eyes. She had not a single pleasant recollection of any of the family, so it was no wonder that she bore the loss philosophically. 
               Only three months more, and unless something happened, they must leave their home and take a smaller house, for the present one was far beyond their means. Kate could not bear to think of the change; her home was so endeared by her father's memory, that it almost appeared in severing the last link she was losing her father over again. Therefore she counted the months, and wished that she could make them longer; but as that was impossible, she tried to forget what lay before her. Sometimes, when she was tired and desponding, as we all are at times, she would wonder at her life and almost lose hope; she had never been happy as a child, though she had had her father then; but now she had no one to turn to for sympathy, for even George did not understand her. She thought of her father, and longed for his love. "But if papa were alive, I would not be writing as I am doing now,-there would be no necessity." And she grew impatient when she dreamed of a different kind of life, with all a young girl's pleasures and freedom from care. 
               If Mrs. Ashton had been a good mother, her task would have been comparatively light; if she were not so perfectly helpless, and could realize that she was older than her daughter, and not a lit companion; if she had left Kate more to herself, and been a helper more than a hinderance. But Mrs. Ashton clung to Kate and unnerved her with her constant complaints; and if in better spirits would contradict everything that she said, so that Kate felt as though she were working with an iron yoke on her shoulders; and though it hurt her, she could not shake herself free, but must walk on firmly, carrying her heavy burden with her. 
               John: Ashton might have been a different man,-not so eccentric and self-contained. He might have struggled on for years if he had had proper care; but a man can always fare better than a woman, for he has the world before him, and if unhappy in his home, can find interests away from that home, as the professor had learned to do long before his death; and if not realizing that deep, true happiness that constant love and sympathy brings, was at least content with this world's great gifts so richly showered on him. 
               Mrs. Ashton was too utterly selfish, and too weak in character, to be either a good mother or wife; she knew not a wife's holiest duties,-that constant love and sympathy that should have always welcomed her husband when he came home, tired and wanting rest. Sleep will refresh the body, but there is a mental weariness that needs something deeper than that, and Mrs. Ashton knew not its meaning. 
               Kate, as a little child, had in part taken her mother's place, and his child's love was the one pure element in the man's home, and his only idea of sympathy. He longed and longed for something he knew not what, but he did not find it in his wife, until at last we find him, as at the beginning of my book, eccentric and self-contained, but not his true nature. Mrs. Ashton had always shown such a marked partiality between her children, that Kate had always had the burden to bear; she had given up to Florence all her life, and now she was giving up all that was dear to a young girl for a strange, new life that was foreign to her nature. 
               The girl was growing self-contained, and was only happy in her dreams; her father could seek change and new interests away from home, which is a man's great advantage over woman. For a woman, if not happy in her home, God help her! She has nothing else. With Kate, it was merely a question of time; a more plodding nature than hers would have worked on for years and not have been so goaded by her mother's foolishness; but it remained to be proved whether the strong, young nature could struggle on, or be fretted out in that struggle. 
               This is the saddest thing in life, but how often we see it, a whole family made miserable by the weakness of one member! John Ashton's life had been sacrificed by his wife; and was Kate now following in her father's footsteps? The young life was strong, and would fight its battle well, for Kate's was not a nature to give up easily; she was naturally of a happy disposition, and hope is strong with the young. The present was her own to improve, and she had firm faith, if she did her duty, God would help her on in the right path. 
               She often thought, "How fortunate it is for poor mamma that I was not born a beauty! It would be hard if all my money should go for trinkets, as Florie's does." And then she would think of her sister and a happier life, for her sick soul was starving for love; but she was too busy for vain regrets, and it is only the idle who are really miserable. What, if her book should succeed, how much comfort and pleasure her new life held for her! At the thought she was dazzled by the ray of sunlight, and encouraged to work on. 
               So the book grew and grew, and became her solace and companion; it was a history of her own life, and she painted her life-struggle vividly, for all her heart was in it. There were many more pages to be written, the saddest of all, though she did not know it. Sometimes she would think of her book. 
               "It might never have been written if I had been happy." I know the story would not have been as full of life if she had not felt it all. "It would be a glorious thing to write a book men would read and speak of!" Her eyes would kindle and flash. But it would be a very sad thing if that strong, young life should pay the penalty; and never know what it is to be free from care and happy. 
               It was a cold, windy March day when Kate came in from a round of duties. Her face was very happy as she smiled brightly on old Auntie, for she was in the kitchen seeing about their little dinner. In her pocket was a small, square package, treasured until she should be by herself; for Kate had been to the post-office, and well knew the writing on the envelope, and only waited till she was alone to learn all its precious contents. 
               It was Florence's birthday, and her mother intended having Florence and Charlie to dine with her. Kate did not approve of the plan, for she knew how many days of privation would pay for that one small piece of extravagance; but since she had received her Southern letter she looked more kindly on their little dinner-party, as nothing could trouble her very much just then. All morning she was in the kitchen assisting Auntie in beating eggs and doing various other little things; and all that morning she was full of life and happy. It was a regular holiday for her old nurse; and, as her cakes browned beautifully in the oven, Auntie stroked down her apron while she looked at Kate's bright face and wondered if there was ever anything more beautiful. She was in her gayest, merriest mood, and was teasing her old friend to their mutual satisfaction. All day long it was the same thing; she was her brightest and happiest, when every now and then she put her hand in her pocket to feel if the letter stowed away so safely was still there. It was thicker than usual, and that was surely a good omen. So the day passed away, and Kate waited patiently for the rich treat in store for her. But at last the day is over, and Florence and Charlie have gone home, and mamma is safely in bed. Kate is in her own room, and is standing looking for the fiftieth time at her letter; and, foolish girl, delaying her pleasure even now. 
               At last, however, the seal is broken, and her bright, happy face becomes pale and rigid, while page after page is devoured, as she reads desperately on. It was a story of deceit; George had written to her for months when he had been engaged to another woman, whom he did not love, but was marrying for money. More shame to him! Kate almost felt like hating him when she read his words. 
               She was alone, but it was truly wonderful to see the control she exercised over herself; the letter was folded deliberately in its various folds and put carefully in the envelope. Then she looked at the dear handwriting, so strange now, and held it in the gas-light till every morsel of the paper was consumed. Slowly and deliberately her clothes were put away, as carefully as usual. Kate even knelt down to pray, but rose again, not conscious of what she was doing, for all was mechanical. Then the matches were placed where she was in the habit of putting them, so that she could easily find them if she wanted them in the night Then the light was put out and she was in bed, but not to sleep that night. It was strange to commence her life anew, but so it was; and what would her life be without her hope and trust? She was too much stunned to think of the future. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               WHICH shall it be? Kate sat and thought and thought till she felt sick and weary, but still thought on; she had hardly eaten at all for the last three days, and every nerve was strained to its highest tension. Which shall it be? It was a great temptation; the potent drug lay within reach of her hand, as she had provided it ready; and now the final struggle had come-one little action, and rest, rest forever. What was life, and what had life been to her? The girl looked at the little vial in her hand as she thought on. Mamma would not miss her, and she had nothing now to lose; Florie would more than fill her place, and papa-there she paused. 
               Eternity, was it true? She almost lost her faith. Was there a God, or was there not? That great question, that had been agitating the world for ages, was tearing at. her heartstrings. Unhappy in her youth, misunderstood, with her father and George as her only comfort. Then their little fortune had been all swept away by a villain who still lived, and prospered on. Why could such things be if God were just? Now this last great blow had come; George was unworthy, and Kate's trust was gone. The struggle was hard, for it was a strong, nature that fought the battle, and Kate had suffered the last three days as only such natures can suffer. 
                
               How often friends wound by some little, silly word or question, that has no meaning, but is very sure in hitting its mark; and, though the throbbing flesh may quiver and bleed, as the barb is driven deeply in, the brave heart is true, and strong, and does not show the wound! So it had been with Kate. At first her agony appeared to rend her heart in twain; but, thank God! the noble heart was still firm. She laughed her loudest, and tried to do her best, when she was so sick and weary she longed, and longed, with a longing unutterable, for only a little rest. One year's happiness and she would have been content. 
               It might have been; and she looked up at the deep, blue heaven, and wondered if, when all were so untrue, if eternity were not untrue also. She had gone through all the phases of despair: the noisy kind, then the despairing and hopeless, and now the girl was desperate. She felt like a man on the verge of a cliff. Oh, if something dreadful would only come now! One little push and she would be over, and at rest; the jagged rocks might tear her flesh, as her spirit had been torn, but how infinitely blessed that rest would be! 
               We see through a glass darkly, and then face to face. Kate thought of the Bible, and all its promises; was she risking her soul, and this glorious eternity there spoken of, for nothing at all, or worse than nothing? As her reason acknowledged. We see through a glass darkly. Yes, the ancients had their mirrors of steel, that were apt to corrode with the slightest moisture; how could they reflect back as plainly and clearly as our present glasses do? She had seen Church's great picture of Niagara, and on looking at it you could almost see the mist and foam as he had painted it. A studious man might calculate the column of water that poured over every moment, and you could read of it in books-you could read of the lunar bow. But what was it all compared with one little glimpse of that great miracle, bringing God nearer and nearer? What a thrill would run through you at that one little glimpse! Was it not worth the study of ages to see through a glass darkly, and then face to face? 
               Kate's poet soul was soaring in the realms of fancy: if earth were so beautiful, what must heaven be? She pressed her hand closely over her beating brow, while she looked at the calm, blue heaven. If it were only true, the angels and archangels round the throne of God; no suffering and pain any more, but joy and rest forever! Was it not worth a life-long struggle? Oh, for some sign! And Kate gazed at the heavens, her face pale and pinched with the struggle. Which shall it be? She pushed her hair off of her heated brow, as John Ashton had so often done; higher and higher her hair was pushed back, while she looked before her, hoping for some sign. A cold nose was put into her hand, and two wistful, brown eyes were raised questioningly to her face. Soc, her father's dog, his pet companion and follower had been shut up for many days, so that he should not trouble his young mistress. He had not liked the neglect, and cannot understand the meaning of the change in his life; so, having managed to make his escape, has come to his mistress for explanation. "True little friend." Kate looked at the dog through her blinding tears, and the next moment he was lifted in her arms. Soc had been often caressed by George, and so much of the halo and romance of her life hung round his woolly head, that just now he was very dear to her. Then any love coming at this time, if only from a dog, was truly grateful. 
               "Soc, true, little friend, I had almost persuaded myself to commit a great sin, and you come just in time to save me. I have loved, and loved, and almost broken my heart. We can never love George any more." The tears filled her eyes, while the dog wagged his tail on hearing the familiar name. 
               "But, Soc," Kate remonstrated, as Soc, in his eagerness, made one bound on the table, knocking down a book that lay there. It was her Bible, and the book fell open at the words, "Thou shalt do no murder." "Oh, papa! have you sent your little friend to save me?" She had not seen the dog for so long, it appeared as though he came as a messenger from her father. "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest. Take up your cross and follow me." Was she carrying her cross? was she not rather tempted to act the coward's part? The texts of Scripture, and the questionings of her own conscience, came only too readily while she looked at the cross on her Bible. 
               Then, pressing the book to her lips, she fell on her knees beside the window, and her face was irradiated and beautiful as it had never been before; a halo almost appeared to play round her brow, so great was the light that flashed from her dreamy eyes, now so full of joy and gladness. Then her face was hidden in her hands, and her bent figure, kneeling beside the window, is convulsed with emotion, and a choking sob of thankfulness, joy, and thanksgiving came from her full heart. 
               "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest." "You have not forgotten me, papa. Oh, papa! I had almost been unworthy of you." Blessed little Soc! Which shall it be? Was eternity true? She never doubted again, but such a prayer was sent up to the throne of the Father as is seldom heard on earth. The girl's whole heart was poured out to her Maker, and in that hour forgiveness for all past sins was sent down from the throne on high to gladden her soul. All the past blotted oat to commence her life anew; not blotted out-no-kept and hugged closer to her heart, to help and strengthen her on. Kate Ashton rose from her knees a truer, better, nobler woman than she had ever been; and friends who saw her wondered at the change, and thought it levity, and said her feelings would never kill her. 
               How little they knew that inner, truer, glorious light the girl held close to her heart; and would they have understood if she had told them? No; she could never find words to tell of the measure of her joy, but must keep it to herself, praying that others might some day see the light. She would be the same Kate, no doubt, passionate, and to all appearance the same; but there was a nobler stream flowing in with her life-blood, and cleansing all that had been filthy, dark, and turbid before. It might have been; but would she go back? No, no; better as it was. God bless the glorious Giver who doeth all things well! She could say that now with all her heart. 
               "I am so tired." The bodily wants began to have play, and asserted themselves over the spiritual, while the girl rose from her knees and literally put her heel on her love, and ground it to the earth, and then walked on bravely. But did she grind her love to the earth? When Kate thought and questioned herself she found her heart was still all right, loving and true as ever, only she did not love George Alston. She loved just as deeply as ever, but he was not her ideal. What was the body without the soul? It was the soul she had loved, and it had not been his. 
               She could have met him in the street, and spoken kindly to him without one pang; she had been a dreamer, and cheated herself, but she could never love such a man as he had proved to be. He was a stranger to her, and not her ideal,-her love was not yet dead; no, Kate would love and dream on to the end. If George had been killed in battle, or lost his life in any other way, he would have been still her hero, but living as he was, she did not know him,-that was simply all. She had been dreaming and had been wakened up to life; and Kate wrote page after page in her book, for it was growing fast. 
               She had fought a hard battle for her lost faith; but were her trust and faith dead? Oh, no! And Kate laughed a little, low, happy laugh to herself, while she hugged her love closer to her heart, as much a dreamer as ever, and as much in love with her love, only George was not that love. Her love was strong, true, brave, and constant, and did not know deceit; manly, with all a man's nobleness, strength, and gentleness, and that love was truly not George Alston. 
               Kate closed her door and ran lightly down the stairs, singing a song low to herself, so great was the revulsion of feeling; her face was so much changed that old Auntie stopped her to hear if she had any news. "No news, Auntie, but I am so happy," She threw both arms round Auntie's neck, and hid her face on her shoulder, while the thickly-coming sobs convulsed her slight frame. 
               "And what is it, honey? If they don't want harm to come they had better take more heed to theirselves." Auntie stopped smoothing Kate's hair, and shook her fist at the door of the room where she knew Mrs. Ashton was. 
               "I am so happy, Auntie!" The words came with difficulty. "I had almost committed a great sin when Soc saved me,-never keep Soc away any more, I had almost forgotten him." 
               "There, honey, don't go on so." The tears stood in Auntie's eyes. 
               "Papa came to me." She looked wistfully in Auntie's face. "I had almost forgotten every one." 
               "Your ma, Miss Kate?" The words were spoken warningly. 
               "Yes, Auntie." Kate choked back her sobs; and, holding the dog tightly in her arms, ran down stairs, murmuring to him, and certainly mystified her old friend. 
               Miss Kate was surely growing more like the master every day. Sometimes Florence would look at her sister, wondering that she did not feel mortified when friends spoke to her of George. Kate's apparent indifference and calmness ness were only because she did not think of herself; and if she had paused to think, which she never did, she would still less have understood any cause for mortification. She had been a warm-hearted, loving woman, and if she had failed, it was only because she was too generous with her love. She had been true in all the instincts of her heart, and could she quarrel with or blame herself if in too much loving she had erred? could she blame her own heart for its generosity? Sometimes Florence would say to her, "Kate, you know we all told you that George was not worthy." Then Kate would raise her face hopelessly at the useless task of trying to make her sister understand her. "What if you did, Florie?" She would threw back her head proudly. "Love is not perfect without trust, and trust is the most beautiful and perfect part of woman's character. I would rather be deceived fifty times than weigh my heart grudgingly and by piecemeal, as a miser does is gold. Florie! Florie!" the hot tears would fill her eyes, "you cannot tell the blessedness as well as the utter misery of loving as I have loved." 
               "You never were like any one else, Kate, you are so much like papa," Florence would say complainingly. 
               "I think I am, Florie' Kate would answer. "I understand many things in papa's life that I never thought of at the time. I have seen mamma pet and spoil you when we were children, and longed for a tithe of that love, while I stood unheeded by, not having any sympathy. Then I gave all my heart away, and was happy for a time. I cannot make myself anew, I only wish I could; but you must take me as I am, and not expect too much." 
               One month after this time Kate received George Alston's wedding cards; her mother intended hiding them, so as not to let her know, but Kate took them, and was quite interested in talking about different styles of wedding cards. Mrs. Ashton hardly knew what to think, but said, as had always been said kindly of her oddities since her father's death, that she was very much like him. 
               Kate was as eccentric as her father, so her mother thought; she did not know that, as the card fell from her hand, she was wondering at herself how she had ever taken so much trouble, and given herself so much pain, over a thing she cared so little for now. But her only explanation was her own, she loved her love as dearly as ever, but he was not her love. She would trust as truly as ever, for she could not be different from what she was, and she would not be herself without her trust. Kate's was a nature that would err often, and would not be as much admired as one that was more reserved; but what friends she had were true, and in the hour of trial would not Kate be the first sent for? After all, is not that the noblest test of character? 
               Florence was best in a calm, but Kate was a better pilot when your bark was in stormy waters. It might have been; but would she have been the same woman? I doubt it; and I doubt, if the two lives were laid before her, if she would have chosen the easier. It was a great temptation, and I do not think she came out loser in the battle; George lost a true and unselfish heart, that would have stood any trial for his sake, and done anything for him, and counted the cost lightly. The vase was broken, and the flowers were scattered; but all the sweetness remained deep down in the stem of the cup, to be gathered and garnered in her heart. 
               Strengthened, and nobler through suffering, Kate began her new life bravely; a dreamer as much as ever, for when alone the girl would still soar in her realms of fancy. Only her love was there, but his name was not George. It might have been; but bless the glorious Giver always and through all who doeth all things well. 
               From this time Socrates, her father's dirty, woolly follower and friend-for Soc was a perfect specimen of the Skye terrier-became Kate's constant companion. Soc had been banished, after his master's death, by Auntie, who was afraid he would trouble her young mistress; but now the dog was released, and installed in high favor. And often, when Kate was alone with him, in an outburst of thankfulness she would bury her hand in his woolly head and look into his soft, brown eyes, while she murmured; "Wise, food, dear little Soc, no one but you and I know. Surely papa sent you to save me!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               KATE wrote as she had never written before: her life-struggle added to the thickly growing pages of her book,-growing fast and steadily now, each page was earnest, full of life and truth, for it was all from her heart. Professor Ashton's intellect had been inherited by his daughter, and was beautifying and vivifying her soul. Kate had never been so tranquil in mind as since the time when Soc had come to save her; and the girl's prayer brought perfect peace, and gave her spirit new light to tread its thorny way. Often, when she was alone, her thoughts deep in the realms of fancy, it was beautiful to see her,-only one trembled at such great beauty. The fire of intellect was feeding on her life-strings, and there was a strange, new light in her dreamy eyes which had never been there before, while each feature was beautified. Kate thought truly that she could do anything; she had suffered so keenly that she often wondered how she still lived on; and though the light had all died out of her life, and the future held no hope, her heart had grown so large and whole in the struggle that it could take in all the world. 
               It is of such highly-strung natures, and through such trials, that we are made strong and great; she felt as though she could understand everything, for she had conquered self, which is the hardest battle of all. A nobler, truer, better woman in every sense. Kate had read a book by some author, the title, "Live it Down," about a poor girl who had broken her heart. Broken her heart-live it down. What! Her love? No; she still had her love, and would not live it down, but hold it close to her heart only the more tightly. Bah! What stuff men and women write!-let them know before they write. How can people write of what they do not know? You might as well imagine the moon a dinner-plate. 
               Live it down! What? Nothing. Her love was still her love, but her love's name was not George. She could have given up her life for something of worth,-but give it up for him? "Goodness gracious, what a sacrifice! No, indeed!" The mischief sparkled in Kate's eyes. "I might be shot if I were very sure that some great traitor would be hung as he deserved. I would not like to be hung, as that would be so uncomfortable, and would spoil the body; but I could be shot in a good cause." Kate could not keep her thoughts quiet, but from one thing to another her busy brain hurried, the ridiculous and sad running closely side by side, so that they blended together in a very queer fashion. 
               Her mother told her not to cry. Goodness! Would mamma never understand her? What in the world should she cry for? It spoiled her eyes, and she wanted all that her eyes could give her in the way of work. She might cry sometimes in great sorrow, and she would have laid in a whole bushel of onions, and cried all day long, if it would have helped her. But it would not help her on, so where would be the use? She would not do it. 
                
               "If I had had everything my own way I might have grown fat, and unwieldly, and commonplace. Goodness!"-and Kate rubbed her nose very hard, while she decided she was not commonplace,-"I might never have written my book. What the world would have lost!" Kate's eyes, brimful of mischief, showed that her heart and mind were still alive, and remarkably lively, too. Kate thought, "I never could enter into the fable of the fox and grapes; I think the moral was bad, and it was intensely silly. I never would worry for what I could not get; if there were a ray of chance I might work for it, but if it were a settled fact I could not get, I don't think I would find the grapes sour. They would be just as sweet, only they would not be for me. 
               "Mamma may worry and fret me, but every little ray of comfort I can get I will hang on to as long as there is a thread left, and I may enjoy it more by contrast with the disagreeable part of my life. No; put your best foot foremost, and if there is a hole in your right-foot boot, stick the left out first; you can do anything if you only try. If your umbrella is too small to keep off the rain, put it down; for, if it is a cotton one, it will make an ugly, black mark on your shoulder, and if silk, it will wet you through to a certainty. If your bark is not well freighted, make the most of the cargo you have on board, and you will be happier." 
               So Kate determined to make the most of her freight, and get all the comfort she could. "Mamma might be different; but mamma was mamma, and there was no use in talking, she would always be the same. George would find out his mistake some day when it was too late;" and in disregard of all Kate's philosophy was a remarkably sweet flavor that grape had, it was quite delicious. "Dear me! I have a batter-pudding to make for dinner, and here I am dreaming, as I always do." Kate started for the kitchen. 
               So Kate began her new life, the cobwebs all cleared away, and everything in order. Her friends considered her heartless; if people would only let other people alone,-everybody mind their own business,-that certainly should be placed among the commandments. If I were king, I would write it on every house in the city in which I lived. 
               One morning Kate had been out on an errand for her mother, when her little friend, Henry Blake, met her. 
               "Miss Kate," the boy pleaded, "won't you come with me over to the fort this afternoon? I have not been there for so long." 
               "I don't think I can come this afternoon, Henry." Kate hesitated. She had not been to the fort since her trouble, and though she felt as though she should see the hermit, for he might think she was neglecting him, she dreaded visiting her former haunts. 
               "Do come. Miss Kate." The boy took her hand in his eagerness. "I can't go unless you do, and I want to go so much." 
               "And why can't you go, Henry?" Kate looked in his eager, upturned face. 
               "Mother is afraid to have me go." He made an impatient motion with his head. "It is too bad, Miss Kate, I will be fourteen next week, and they don't trust me at all. But you will go, won't you?" 
                
               "Yes, Henry, I will go." It was said with an effort, while one large tear trickled down her cheek. It was a great trial, but as it must be done at some time, Kate wisely resolved it was better to look things boldly in the face, and after one or two exertions, she might sooner recover her wonted calm. 
               That same afternoon Kate and Henry crossed the river, and made their way to Kate's favorite place for dreaming. The girl had changed much during the last two months,-her step had lost much of its buoyancy, and it was with an effort she answered her companion's merry chatter. Trying to respond in the same spirit, though she could not check the boy's mirth by her serious face. Restrained and kept in by a timid mother, Henry was too eagerly looking forward to a long ramble through the woods and open Country to have his pleasure checked by trifles. 
               "May I go and leave you for an hour?" The boy questioned. They had now reached the fort, and Kate was seated on a large stone, securely wedged in between the rocks, her favorite resting-place. 
               "I will be back very soon, if you will let me go." The boy pulled her dress in his eagerness; for Kate, lost in sad reverie, was gazing dreamily round her. "Here is the hermit, Miss Kate,-may I go?" 
               "Yes, Henry, but don't go far away." Kate was glad to be rid of his many questions for a time. 
               "I have not seen you for a long time, child." The hermit's preoccupied face was bent to look in her own, while the tears Kate could not restrain, coursed down her cheeks. 
                
               "No, not for a long time." She put her hand to her face to conceal her emotion. 
               "And my, other young friend, where is he?" 
               "George?' The name came with difficulty to her lips. "He is married." She wondered at herself that she could speak the words so calmly. "He married Celia Brandon, the young girl whose story I told you some time ago." 
               "Was there any cause, child?" He took her hand sympathizingly in his own. "You had not quarreled?" 
               "Oh, no!" Poor Kate, it was a hard trial, but she bravely choked back her sobs. "Celia Brandon was beautiful and rich." 
               "And you, child? My poor darling! my poor darling!" One thin hand was laid on her bowed head, and he spoke in broken tones. "The world is all gone wrong." His face changed, and knit darkly and passionately. "Revenge! There is still revenge for you and me." 
               "Oh, Mr. Smith!"-Kate laid both hands on his arm. "I do not want to be revenged; George did me no harm. He only wakened me up, and I can forgive him. No one understands me." She looked wearily and wistfully round her. And then, anxious to excuse George's want of faith, her hands were again placed in his, while her tearful, pitiful eyes were raised to his face in entreaty. "I used to be so glad I was like papa, and wanted to be more like him; but now I am afraid I will be made as unhappy as he was, through that likeness. 
               "Mr. Smith,"-the girl brokenly faltered her story, while the man, strongly moved, watched her with tearful eyes,-"papa never saw clearly like other people; he lived in a dream, and cast the halo of love on all around him through the nobleness of his great heart. I am afraid I have done the same as papa;" one choking sob would have vent. "I have dreamed of George as being so good, great, and noble, that I had learned to idolize and not love him. It was not George's fault if he failed to make himself greater than he was; it was only my love that imagined him so. Often now I look back and wonder how I could have so cheated myself; little, silly words and speeches, and selfish acts, show me how utterly unworthy was my idol." 
               "My poor child! my poor child! And so young!" the man murmured, while Kate still continued her plaint. 
               "I do not wish him any harm; and I have prayed every night for him since I have heard of the change in his life; my great trouble is not that I think of him too much, but too little. I would that I could pray more deeply, for I am afraid he will not be happy; but how can I care for my poor image when that one canker-spot destroys all its beauty? I am not sorrowing for George, I do not care for him at all, but it is my lost love. Why has God given me this wildly-passionate, loving heart, only to realize its utter emptiness? This aching void, will it ever be filled?" Her lip trembled, while sob after sob checked her; and her strange friend drew closer, and put one arm round her shuddering form. 
               "I have a great sorrow, Kate; I was young like you are, and my heart was almost broken as yours has been; but, child, you shame my manhood with your strength. I gave up, and ceased to live, while you have buckled on your armor tightly, determined to fight your battle alone. Brave girl! you would shame many men." He smoothed the rippling curls her old nurse was so proud of. 
               "Mr. Smith,"-Kate at last raised her tear-stained face,-"I am afraid I have been unmaidenly, but you have helped me much. I would have died if I had not told some one, and I knew you could help me. Do not blame poor George!" As the man's face darkened, and he murmured some angry words. "The world is still as bright and beautiful, if I can only still this wildly-beating heart. I suppose I will in time." She tried to smile. "I often think of and remember the story of two artists papa told me. Would you like to hear it, Mr. Smith?" 
               "Yes, child." The man held both her little hands in his, while the girl, choking back her sobs, commenced her story; unselfish in forgetting her own trouble, and sorry to have given him cause for thought, she was anxious to distract him. 
               "They were the lives of two young men, artists, whose sad fate my father heard of while passing some time when a young man in Rome. 
               "The eldest was a married man-for they were twins, there only being a few minutes' difference in the time of their birth,-he had a wife and several children entirely dependent on his efforts. The family were miserably poor, though they managed to live through the father's exertions, as he was well skilled and persevering in the study of art. For years he managed to struggle on, carrying out the plans of others better known to the world than himself, until the creative power of his genius grew too rapidly to be longer controlled. 
                
               "There was one subject in clay he had worked on for years, vainly trying to make it what his fancy painted, till at last success crowned his efforts. It was a female head of rare beauty, a creature of his own brain; and, as the cold clay grew more perfect under his fingers, he forgot wife and child, and everything, in his love for his idol. Years passed on, for he had but little time to work, and slowly the statue grew. 
               "People said he was insane,-and wife and children, frightened by his wild looks, let him live alone, and managed as best they could to do the same. His hair grew white, and his form bent; but who could realize the joy of that aching heart when at last the clay yielded to him, and the perfect form that had so often mocked him dazzled his vision? Two whole days he passed simply in gazing at it, forgetful even to eat or sleep; and when the rumor of the beauty of the statue was carried forth, and many clamored to be admitted, he was awakened, and promised the next day that all who came should see. 
               "He had no pedestal, so that night went through the city vainly seeking one; he had collected all his money, and even sold his tattered coat to gain the object of his search, which was at last accomplished. In the morning, when the Roman world crowded into his dark, gloomy studio to see the perfect image, they found an old man lying on the floor, cold and dead, beside some fragments of broken clay. 
               "The doctor said his heart was diseased, and many said he had always been insane. It was only his twin brother who could tell them that the statue had existed, and that he knew his brother was seeking a pedestal. Then the story took a different form: the old man had been cheated; the pedestal had been broken and poorly mended before it was sold to him. One instant he had seen his idol in all its perfection, the next it was a mass of broken fragments, and the old man's heart was broken with it, dying happy in at last having realized his dream. 
               "The other brother, the twin I have spoken of, was engaged on a work of art which day by day grew more absorbing, as the marble gained new beauty under his fingers, till at last the perfection was destroyed by a slight flaw on one cheek. No one saw it but the artist himself; but that one canker-spot eat into his life, and he became insane, though death did not relieve his sufferings. Supplied with money and a home by his friends, year after year he worked on, rudely and imperfectly, just exactly to the same point as at first, when the imperfection would be imitated, and the endless work of months commenced over again." 
               All Kate's sympathies were enlisted in the last story, though when told her, the life and death of the first artist appeared most sad. Now, however, she could feel with the second artist,-she also had made a perfect image, only to find it had cloven feet, spoiling all its beauty. Unlike the artist, she put it carefully away out of sight, and covered the grave with flowers; she had learned to love so much, she could not learn to hate or be indifferent, and the poor image she had worshiped, she sorrowed most for as she removed it from its niche. She did not feel angry, as her mother and Florie had done; it would do her no good to find more flaws in her idol, when one had given her so much pain. She had cheated herself, but had at least been true in her love. Should she strip her poor, faulty idol of the little graces it had left? No, no; cover it up tenderly and lovingly, and add all the grace that was possible; bind all its beauties on tight, and add what more she could, not grudging one, they were so few. It had lost the best gift she could give it, and in losing her love, it has lost all. 
               Kate could have met George in the street, and listened to him patiently, much interested in his happiness, for all her prayers were with him. It would do her no good to know that he was suffering for his fault, and she did not wish it. She had made a mistake in loving him with her whole soul, but should she blame him or feel angry if he did not know that soul's worth? They were entirely unsuited to each other, but she had not been able to see through the golden mists that clouded her vision. His the fault to have cheated her for so long a time; a man should be stronger than a woman; and what glory could he expect to have in outwitting one so much his inferior in strength? He was mocking one of God's noblest attributes. 
               Sometimes these worrying thoughts came to the girl, but she bravely put them aside, while she prayed God to pardon, and bless him, for he knew not what he did. There comes a period in most women's lives when they think to be with the beloved object and feel his presence is sufficient happiness under whatever circumstances, for women are more unselfish than men. If George had been true Kate might have idolized him to the end; often sorrowing, but never doubting, when the needs of her spirit were not met by his. It would have been a straining and striving, all through her life, for something she could not attain; and she would have gone to her grave with that aching void still unsatisfied. Oh! if she could have broken her idol into crumbling fragments with one blow, it would have been destroyed in all the halo of its beauty as seen by her. I do not know what her life would have been, but as it was, plain common sense and pride came to her aid. If he had valued her heart so little, should she as wantonly treat that poor, suffering member? 
               No. The girl proudly threw back her head; it had taken much suffering to waken her up, but she thanked her heavenly Father it had been done. The world was just as glorious and beautiful as ever, and she had, through suffering, learned her lesson well. Her love was still her love, and her heart was full of charity to all men. If she had so blinded herself, might not others do the same? Poor, faulty, human nature! How sad it is that some hearts, like Kate Ashton's, must be wrung before they see the truth! 
               "Mr. Smith." They had been sitting quiet for a long time, since Kate had finished her story, the man occasionally stroking her hand. "Mr. Smith, papa was never happy, and I have seen much sorrow in my life; it is strange that some people are born to suffer." 
               "Poor child! Poor child!" He restlessly patted her hand, for he had not awakened from, his dream. "Revenge! Revenge! There is that left for you and me, child!" His face darkened as before. 
               "Oh, Mr. Smith,-don't!" the girl pleaded, while she vainly tried to attract his attention. 
                
               "You have not been tired waiting for me, Miss Kate?" 
               Henry Blake joined them. 
               "No, Henry, but what shall I do? It is late, and we must go; and I cannot bear to leave Mr. Smith here, his cough is worse than usual. You will go home, Mr. Smith?" Kate made another effort. 
               "He is crazy. Do come, Miss Kate, or mother will be worried, for we will miss the next boat, unless you hurry." 
               "That is true, Henry." 
               Kate was much troubled, as she saw the hopelessness of trying to awaken the man from his reverie. So the boy and girl were obliged to leave him sitting alone, on the stones, and murmuring that one word, "Revenge!" over and over again. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE summer had passed away, and it was toward the end of August; only one more month to stay in their old home, which they would then leave forever. It was a new and great trial to Kate. Florence and Charlie intended leaving New London, for New York, the last of September, as Charlie had taken a house in that city; and, tired of remaining inactive, he had determined on commencing in earnest the practice of his profession. Mrs. Ashton's house-rent would expire almost at the same time, and as she could not be satisfied away from Florence, she resolved to go with her. She had not the same ties to her home as Kate had, and did not pause to consider her daughter's happiness. True, Kate's little fortune all went for their mutual support; but Mrs. Ashton, whose weakly-balanced mind was not capable of clear thought, did not pause to think that Florence owed equally as much, if not more, in duty to her, than Kate. 
               All the youngest child could give, was taken as her due without a word of thanks; so that the girl's heart grew chilled and cold; and often she would wish that Mr. Judson had proved more honorable, so that she could have been left in New London with her old nurse, or that Florence would have done her duty and taken her mother to live with her. 
               Sometimes she could hear of Mr. Judson's entertaining clergymen, for they were excellent Presbyterians, and fond of having clergymen stay at their house. And Kate would wonder at their hypocrisy, and think of them at evening prayers, and also sitting at the table listening to the blessing said over food bought with stolen money. It was a bitter thought, and the girl was learning strange lessons in this world's truth. 
               They were to leave their comfortable home for some small boarding-house in the crowded city; and old Auntie would live with Florence,-it was as much of a trial to her as her young mistress when she thought of the change. And Soc-what would become of Soc? Her father's pet had grown very dear to her, and Kate would not consent to part with him, though she hardly knew how to keep him with her; her mind was full of troubling thoughts. Regularly every day, it had become a constant thing for Kate and her woolly companion to wander over to the old fort; the time was growing so short that she could not bear to stay away, and then she was very sorry to bid good-by to the strange man who had so strongly excited her sympathy. 
               It was late in the afternoon of the twenty-eighth of August that Kate was sitting by the window watching the heavy clouds disperse, and breathing in that sweet earthy perfume that always comes in summer after a heavy shower. It had been an unusually warm day, which had ended in a heavy thunder-shower; and for the last hour the storm-king had held his sway, and peal after peal of thunder had shaken the earth, followed by blinding lightning. Now, however, the clouds were drifting away, and a brilliant rainbow, with its variegated colors, spanned the sky. 
               Kate was thinking of her friend, the hermit, and her dreamy eyes sought the river, shut out from her gaze by the closely-clustering houses; she had not seen him for three or four days, though she had been at the fort every day, with the exception of the present one. "I wonder if anything can be the matter? He has not looked as well as usual lately; I noticed his cough was more troublesome." Kate sat and pondered. 
               "Miss Kate, there's some one out here as wishes to speak to you, and he don't seem to care a hate, though he ain't got so much as a dry rag on him," Auntie grumbled half to herself, as Kate rose from her chair. 
               Ten minutes later Kate's anxious face was put in at the door of the room where her mother and Florence were sitting. 
               "Mamma, Mr. Smith is very ill, his man says dying, and I am going across the river to him." 
               "What can you mean, Kate?" Mrs. Ashton's work dropped from her fingers. 
               "Just what I have said, mamma." 
               "But it is so late," Mrs. Ashton weakly remonstrated. She was happy in having Florence with her, and was not interested in Kate's plans. 
               "I may be gone all night if he is very ill. I will take Auntie with me, but will send her home again if I stay." 
               "And what shall I do?" 
               "The man is dying, mamma!" She impatiently bit her lip, knowing how impossible it was to enlist either her mother's or sister's sympathy pathy; and hopeless of interesting them, she soon after went out of the gate with her dog and old Auntie, whose sympathy she had excited. 
               "Sometimes Charlie says to me, Florie, you should ask Kate to come here oftener, and keep her with you; I don't like the serious expression her face always wears, it is strange in one so young." Florence shook her pretty head and laughed gayly. "I do wish you would tell him, mamma, that Kate never was young, she was always like my grandmother. Kate is so much, like papa, she cares for nothing but study; I always feel lost with her, don't you, mamma?" It was an easy way of disposing of the matter, and saved much trouble. 
               "I don't know what I would do without you, darling!" Her mother patted her hand fondly and approvingly. "Kate never considers my wishes, or is any companion to me." The mother's voice was very fretful. Not pausing to think she owed not only all her comforts, but even her daily bread itself, to the daughter she did not consider it necessary to thank. 
               Kate was leaving the place so endeared to her by memory, without one regret expressed to her mother; and because she did not complain, the sacrifice was unnoticed. 
               "Most probably Kate will forget to send Auntie home." Mrs. Ashton's mind was occupied with selfish regrets, instead of being glad that Kate had some comfort in her present sorrow. 
               "No doubt she will forget, mamma!" Florence laughed again. "Kate grows more like papa every day. But, at any rate, there is one comfort if the man dies, Kate will have gotten rid of one of her crotchets." 
                
               So the mother and daughter talked, and reasoned; while Kate and old Auntie, after leaving the ferry-boat, made their toilsome way up the steep hill to the little house shut in by the woods. 
               "Aren't you afeered, honey?" Auntie had once asked doubtfully; for she did not wholly like their errand. 
               "No, Auntie," Kate had answered. 
               "But, honey, the sun is wadin' through water; it ain't at all certain of clearin' yet?" Her face was much perplexed. 
               "I must go, Auntie; remember, the man is dying." 
               "Yes, honey." Auntie, more considerate than her mother and sister, ceased to remonstrate; wisely determined Miss Kate had so much trouble at home she would not worry her any further. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               KATE had never been to Mr. Smith's house before, so she could not help sharing some of Auntie's nervousness as she followed the man through the tangled network of undergrowth, her heavy walking-boots soon becoming wet through by the moisture caused by the late rain. Old Auntie and little Soc plodded on slowly, as they all followed their silent guide, who had not spoken since they had crossed the river. The man was evidently sorrowing for his master; and, as a large tear trickled down his cheek, Kate drew nearer in sympathy, and laid one hand on his arm. 
               "You don't think Mr. Smith is very ill?" she questioned. While the man only shook his head, and then summoning courage, blurted out the words,- 
               "He will die, miss." 
               "You did not leave him all alone?" 
               "No; the doctor is there." He again relapsed into silence; and Kate, fearing to distress him further, did not again address him. 
               They were drawing near the house, a small, frame cottage, entirely shut in by the trees, and far away from the inhabited part of the place. The only symptom of life about the place was a tiny thread of smoke ascending from the back part of the building. Auntie, who was superstitious, and whose mind was filled with vague stories of the hermit, hardly liked their errand, so drew closer to her young mistress as they passed through the little wooden gate. 
               It was a large, comfortless room they entered, running the whole width of the house; and Kate, awed by the man's manner, and sympathizing with his sorrow, gazed timidly round her at the hard-seated wooden chairs ranged stiffly round the room; a plain pine table of the commonest kind adorned the center of the room, and the only thing that had any appearance of comfort was an old moth-eaten lounge. In strange contrast to all this discomfort was the likeness of a young girl hung directly facing the door, her bright, laughing face, and the gay, fancy costume in which she was dressed, forming a striking contrast to the heavy masses of black material that shrouded the frame. Kate looked at the face curiously, and could not help shuddering as her eye caught the heavy folds of black hanging from the ceiling, and at times blown over the fair face of the picture by the gust of air which came in through the open window. 
               Around the floor, on every chair, and piled up in the corners of the room, were books whose handsome bindings deserved more care than they received. Three or four were thrown down open at some place, as if their owner had been called away, or had thrown them down in an outburst of impatience. Kate had, however, little time for thought, as the man soon returned from her master's room to tell her she could see him. 
               On an upper floor, in a room furnished quite as plainly as the one she had left, but like it in having the chairs and even window-ledges covered with books, she found her friend, so changed that she could hardly recognize him. His worn, bloodless face was thin and drawn,-it appeared as though life had left it, so perfect was its repose. Kate at first thought that all was over, till the weary, restless eyes were opened, his lips moved, and he made a faint effort to speak, but was restrained by the doctor. 
               "You must not let him speak, Miss Ashton; entire quiet is the only thing that can insure his safety." The doctor extended his hand to Kate. "Mr. Smith has been anxious to see you. I hope you will stay with him till he is better and able to talk, for he evidently has something he wants to tell you." 
               "Yes," Kate promised, while the restless eyes watched her uneasily, and one thin hand was, with difficulty, extended to thank her. 
               "Mr. Smith has had a severe hemorrhage of the lungs, and should it be brought on again through carelessness, he cannot survive; but I have strong hopes that with care he will soon be about again, and can leave Groton before our bleak New England winter sets in." 
               For days Kate sat beside the man's bedside, fearing to leave him and go home; and Auntie went to and fro with different things she wanted, pitying Mr. Smith's loneliness, and knowing her young mistress would not be happy away, she did not deliver the fretful messages her mother sent her, or urge her coming home, as she was directed to do. 
               Late one afternoon, Kate and Mr. Smith were in the lower room; it was his first day downstairs; he was reclining on the old lounge, and Kate was seated on one of the hard, uneasy chairs close beside him. He had been quiet for some time, dreamily watching the quickly moving clouds; and Kate's eyes were quite as busy, intently examining his face, and wondering what he was thinking of, when he turned his face, and met her eager, questioning gaze. 
               "You are thinking of me, child, and may-be wondering about me. You want to know who I am? Well, you shall know, good child!" He raised the hand he was stroking to his lips. "My little, untiring friend and companion, what would I have done without you?" 
               "You feel better, Mr. Smith?" Kate questioned. 
               "Yes, quite well, and strong enough to do what I want, and then--" He paused. "I should like to tell you all I would do,-I would like to do more for you, child, but I cannot trust you. You are too good, child, too good! Kate," his face darkened, "we will have our revenge,-you do not know how our lives are knit and woven together." He did not heed the girl's outstretched hand, or her imploring face. "It is strange that I should have met you, and that your life and mine should be drawn so closely together without our will, and without you even knowing it." 
               "How, Mr. Smith?" Kate watched him anxiously, afraid that his mind was wandering. 
               "Child,"-the man studied her face eagerly,-"I would like to tell you, but I am almost afraid to trust you. Would you promise, and would you keep that promise? But I need not ask you," as Kate looked at him doubtfully; "you are noble and true, and would not break your word. Will you promise?" He took her hand eagerly in his own. 
               "I promise." The words were said slowly and distinctly, while the man's head sank back on his pillow. 
               Kate was awed into silence by his strange manner, and would have promised anything, fearing to excite him, and knowing, through the doctor, how fatal any such excitement would prove. 
               "Kate,"-his eyes were watching the clouds, while he raised his hand slowly to his head, and appeared as though he were trying to collect his thoughts,-"do you remember, child, one afternoon, after your father's death, you came over to the old fort, and kindly wanting to distract and amuse me, you unselfishly forgot your own grief, and told me the story of a young girl you had met in Washington, Celia Brandon by name? You did not know that I knew her, and you did not know that while I was apparently listening calmly, I was heaping up curses in my own heart against her, and all who belonged to her. My name is Max Osborne; do you understand, Kate?" as the girl, confused and bewildered, bent eagerly forward. 
               "Max Osborne! Mr. Smith!" 
               "Yes, Celia Temple's lover; the man who was drowned twenty-one years ago. Child! child! how the old memories come back! Look at that false, mocking face." He pointed to the picture on the wall. "That is Celia Temple, Celia Brandon's mother; and you do not know that I have learned to hate her a million times more than I ever loved her. You cannot realize the agony that changed me from a young and happy man into what I am; your pure heart would never understand the evil passions that have grown and festered in my soul till they have become a part of it. You did not know while I was listening to your story, I forgot your sorrow in thinking of the revenge that lay before me. You did not know how again through your sorrow that revenge became doubly dear to both of us! You did not know when you paused, and could not remember Celia Brandon's maiden name, I could have easily supplied it. You never knew till now how our lives are woven and knit together, and how revenge comes doubly sweet to both of us." He laughed a low, mocking laugh. 
               "Don't, Mr. Smith!" Kate laid her hand on his to restrain him. 
               "Child, you would not check me in the full measure of my joy? This is the only happiness I have known in over twenty years of misery. I was almost mad the other night, when I thought I would die just as my revenge had attained its full perfection. I have longed, and waited, and sorrowed, for years, just for this moment, fearing I would never see it. It has at last come, and I am given back my strength. Child, if I had ever learned to pray, I would pray now in thankfulness; but I never have learned-that mocking, false face has killed all good in my heart, and only taught me evil." He looked towards the likeness. 
               "But, Mr. Smith, I do not understand; and they all think you are dead?" 
               "I know it, child!" He again laughed mockingly. "Therein lies the measure of my joy. They all thought I was dead, and were glad in thinking so; they did not remember what a good swimmer I was; and that I did not die for a false woman's love, but lived and gathered strength to make that woman's misery. Celia Brandon is an only child,-she has been ruined by her mother in expectation of her great fortune; for she will inherit two of the handsomest plantations in Mississippi unless Max Osborne appears to claim them before her twenty-first birthday. Don't you think he will claim them, child? Two plantations of the sunniest land in all that country, which she has grown up to look on as her own? Petted and ruined from her childhood, till she has grown cold and hard, don't you think she will curse the mother who bore her, when instead of the great riches she counted on as her own, and her mother has taught her to love, she, through that mother's folly, will inherit poverty instead of riches?" He laughed exultingly. 
               "George married her for money: here comes your revenge, Kate. Don't you think she will well teach him his mistake? Cheated! cheated! all around!" He rubbed his hands gleefully, while Kate, finding that it was vain to remonstrate with him, painfully listened. "You wonder how I have kept my secret so long? I will tell you. Anything can be done for money, and I had carefully arranged all my plans. The property was left in charge of my lawyer for a period of twenty-one years, entirely unrestricted, unless Max Osborne should appear. He has had more than half the immense income simply for keeping my secret; if he had revealed the secret the money would have been lost to him; but he has, like a wise and prudent man, sent me my share of my own money and kept his own." Again that hollow mocking laugh. 
               "The lands have been well cared for, as it was his interest to make them yield well; and in these twenty-one years he has been richly rewarded. The time expired yesterday, it only remains for me to go to New York and establish my identity, and then--" He paused, exhausted. 
               "But, Mr. Smith, you will not do it,-think how hard it will be for her?" 
               "I know it, child! I know it! And therefore so much the better reason why I should. I have waited, child, and I cannot tell you what joy it gave me on hearing your continuation of what wanted. You say the girl is cold and hard; the colder and harder the better for my plans." 
               "But can't you forgive them?" Her face was raised in entreaty. 
               "Forgive, after these many years of waiting! Has that face taught me forgiveness? He pointed to the picture. 
               "But how can you make people know you, it is so long?" 
               "I have many friends in New York who will know me, and I shall make it worth while for my friend, the lawyer, to stand my friend still, now that he can no longer profit by my eccentricity." Again that mocking laugh. 
               "I have left my money to various charitable institutions, and charities always look after their own interest. I wish I could do more for you, my little friend, my constant friend and companion!" His face softened. "But I cannot, child, I cannot trust you, you are too noble!" He closed his eyes wearily, exhausted by the effort of talking. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               MR. SMITH recovered strength but slowly, and it was nearly two weeks from the time that he was first taken ill before Kate was able to leave him and return home. We will pass over Mrs. Ashton's reproaches, and her foolish and idle questions, as also Florence's comments on Kate's strange conduct. How even Charlie lost much of his interest in her, and learned to think she was self-willed and perverse, as taught by his wife and mother-in-law. It is hard to be misjudged; and Kate often grew weary of her constant battle and discouraged by those around her; she had no one to feel with her, and she was so entirely different in every respect from the people with whom she lived that lift was at times a hard struggle. Mr. Smith gained strength rapidly; and though she could not be as constantly with him as she had been, a portion of every day was spent in the little house across the river, where, soothed by her love and constant care, the lonely man's last days were brightened, while he gathered strength for his journey. Since the afternoon when they had talked together, he had not spoken of his plans for the future; and Kate, seeing, with pain, that his strength was fostered for one purpose, and knowing she only roused him to new passion by remonstrance, was obliged to listen patiently, awed by the violence of a passion she could not understand. 
               One week later, he had so much recovered that he was able to leave for New York, taking his man with him, while Kate was too much occupied to have time for thought of anything that was not connected with her own home; though often, when alone, her mind would return to the strange story she had heard. Mr. Smith appeared greatly moved on parting with her, and did not apparently know how to thank her enough for her interest in him. 
               "I hope I will see you again, child, though I doubt it," he had said on parting. "I think I am only given strength to accomplish my mission. Do not forget me entirely; and if you ever return to New London, go and see the old fort, and come to this little house, for my sake. I intend to leave it to my man, John, for his many years of constant and untiring service; I engaged him when I first came to the place, and he has been with me ever since." He had also told Kate that she might tell his story, for it was no longer any secret; but Kate, knowing her mother and Florence would take little interest, and would only pain her by idle questions, did not tell them, but let them wait to learn the truth for themselves. 
               It was a busy and sad time that followed the breaking up and dismantling of their home; packing the things they wished to take with them, and disposing of others they could not remove. It was hard to hear her mother's untiring complaints and silly suggestions; while she did her best in confusing things, and making Kate's task harder. They were to take a room in some small boarding-house, as their income was so limited, and Florence did not appear willing to do anything to help them. Kate tried to be patient, though she was at times discouraged, whenever she paused to think what her life would be when never free from her mother's foolishness and questions. 
               If I had a child, Kate would think to herself when utterly worn out, I would leave her entirely to herself, and not follow her around, and fret and worry her with questions, when she wished to be alone. If she wanted me, she could come to me, but I would never go to her; I suppose I am not like other girls, and my life has made me cold and hard, but I would never wish any soul to pine as I have, to be utterly alone. I think I would be perfectly happy if I only had a nook, some place, entirely to myself, and I could stay there as long as I pleased, and only creep out when I wanted. This was always the wild, yearning cry of her sick soul. 
               Auntie did all she could in assisting Kate, and comforting and consoling her, and the old woman deserved much credit for her cheerfulness, as her own heart was almost broken when she thought of leaving her darling; for Auntie was to live with Florence, and Florence made it harder for her, by plainly showing that she did not want her, but was giving her a home on her mother's and Kate's account. It was a very bitter pill for Auntie to swallow, for she did not love Florence as she did Kate; and Florence had enough of her mother's nature to know how to make those around her as uncomfortable as she wished. 
               They had all been unusually busy one day, as their time was drawing very near for leaving, and Kate was sitting idly by the window, too tired to feel sorry, or think of anything but her own bodily discomfort. 
               "You are tired, honey?" Auntie smoothed down her rumpled hair, forgetting her own aching limbs, in pity for her young mistress. 
               "And you too, Auntie." Kate laid her head on her old friend's shoulder, glad to have her sympathy. 
               "I have no cause to study and worrit myself, and I am old and tough, and can bear it. If you were only a bit more like yourself, Miss Kate." 
               "I don't think I ever will be, Auntie; it appears sometimes as though all life were gone out of me, and I can only think and long for papa, and grieve for the dear home that we are leaving." 
               "Have you heard anything from him as was across the river?" She was anxious to distract Kate's attention. 
               "No, not one word. And I have had so much to do I have not had time to think. I wonder if the old fort will miss me? I don't know whether I am sorry or not, I only know that I feel so tired, so tired, all the time. I long to be away, while I dread going, but I feel as though I would like something to happen; I don't know what, but anything to make some change, I am so tired." 
               "Miss Florie, if she had had a bare bit of feelin', would never have let you leave your home; it is that that is breakin' your heart." Auntie spoke resentfully. 
               "There is no one as good to me as you are, Auntie." Kate stroked the black, wrinkled hand. "You never think of yourself, and you must be sorry to leave your church and all you know, dear old Auntie!" The wrinkled hand was raised caressingly to her soft cheek, while her sad eyes studied her old friend's face. 
               "You needn't fash yourself for that, honey." Auntie spoke angrily and disdainfully, to cover her emotion, while a large tear stole down her cheek. "You needn't think I am frettin' myself for them black niggers up in Bethel; a meaner set of truck I never se'd nowheres. They never have no manners, always lookin' and speerin' if a body gets a better hat nor common, and takin' the measure of your gown, even. Why, there is Suke Jenks as had the imperdence to cut her sack pattern off of mine, though she couldn't make it look like the one you give me. I told her so to her very face last evenin' in meetin', and I told her, too, that I was real glad to leave them all, and go live among the quality; and so I should be if it wasn't for leavin' you, honey." Auntie wiped her face, and shook her head more decidedly, when Kate laughed at her indignation. 
               "Won't you have a cup of tea, or nothin', honey? There is as many as six doughnuts in the tureen, won't you have one, Miss Kate?" she pleaded, while Kate only shook her head. 
               "Bless us and save us! If there ain't the postman, and my shoes all down off of the heel." Auntie bustled out of the room, while Kate listened to her heavy footsteps shuffling along the entry, and wondered what she would do without her. 
               The letter which Auntie brought contained good as well as sad news for Kate. It was from Mr. Osborne's lawyer, telling her that Mr. Osborne was dead, and his will being read, it was found that he had left her twenty thousand dollars. He also inclosed Mr. Osborne's diary, kept since he was in New York, which, by his request, was sent to Kate. It was a simple statement of facts and his daily life: how he had met his lawyer, and had had no difficulty in establishing his identity; and also inclosing two passionate letters from his old lady-love, who evidently thought herself ill-treated. He many times expressed his regret that he was not able to do more for Kate; but he told her that he was afraid to trust her generous heart, and if he had done more for her, as he felt inclined, he feared that Celia would in some way be benefited through his means, and he had not bated an atom of his revenge. 
               His money was left to different charitable institutions, with the exception of bequests to a few friends, as also the sum which he had left to Kate,-a small remembrance of his love for her. Even this sum was so tied up, it was impossible that she should have given it away, if she had wished; and Kate, while she sorrowed for George's punishment, which she could not consider unmerited, looked forward to the future with a brighter face, in consequence of Mr. Osborne's kindness. 
               They would be able to take a small house, and could still keep old Auntie, which was a great comfort to Auntie and her young mistress, as also Soc, whose future had been so doubtful. Auntie was quite jubilant, and took occasion to carry her head much higher than usual whenever she met Florence; and Mrs. Ashton remembered how she had always spoken well of the hermit, and had urged Kate's being with him when he was ill. She even prided herself on her forethought, though Kate's memory was not as good, and she could not recall any mark of kindness and good feeling on her mother's part. Then, while Kate read Mr. Osborne's diary, and sympathized with the agony in which it had been written, it was jarring to hear her love for him ascribed to worldly motives. His kind remembrance had softened and smoothed away much of her trouble, but its coming was entirely unexpected, and Kate was more touched by the love it expressed than by the value of the gift. 
               "It will be so much nicer, mamma, for Kate and yourself; Mr. Osborne was very kind," Florence said many times, while Kate listened, half-provoked, Mr. Osborne's kindness was taken so much as a matter of course, he was so evidently considered the family benefactor by both Florence and her mother. It would have been better if Mrs. Ashton had kissed Kate, and acknowledged some of her indebtedness; but as it was, though Kate did not give grudgingly, her heart was chilled by her mother's injustice. 
               How every day of our lives we see and feel this want in those to whom we are drawn most closely by ties of blood and affection! These little, common courtesies of love and good feeling that smooth our paths through life, how often they are forgotten or left unheeded, when they could so easily and with so little effort be remembered! If, in writing Kate Ashton's life-struggle, I were sure that I could impress some few, I would not consider that my labor had been in vain. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               IT was an anxious, busy time that followed, as any one can realize who has witnessed the dismantling of their home. The furniture was almost entirely disposed of, for they intended taking but little with them, and Professor Ashton's ivy-covered cottage had already been visited by its new tenant, and wagon-loads of furniture were arriving, much to old Auntie's disgust. 
               That important member of the Ashton family had entirely regained her wonted spirits, since it had been arranged that she was not to leave her young mistress; and although Mrs. Ashton and Kate were spending the last few days of their stay in New London with Florence, Auntie still hung round her former home, working hard through a raw, windy March day, which we often find has skipped its proper place in the calendar, and appeared when it was least expected and wanted. With no one to stay the torrent of her wrath, Auntie was doing her best to make herself as disagreeable as possible in giving last touches to her work, and giving the niggers as were to come after her a lesson. So she explained in her loudest tones for she was always most angry when her feelings were most moved. 
               It was infinitely amusing to fitness her leave-taking of her colored friends. What pains she took to assure them that they would go to rack and ruin as soon as she was gone. And also how glad she was to leave such a mean pack of rubbish and go and live among the quality; though all the time that she was talking her hardest her eyes were dimmed with tears. All of her savings she left to her favorite church; and it was only after Auntie had left them that Elder Martin proclaimed the truth. And many knees were bowed in prayer, and many hearts filled with love and admiration, while Elder Martin prayed for their dear, departed sister, who was journeying far on her way on the good road, though I hardly think he alluded to the city of New York. 
               A small house was taken by Mrs. Ashton not far from Charlie's and Florence's home; and having purchased what little furniture they needed, the family soon grew accustomed to their strange surroundings. To Mrs. Ashton it was a great source of pleasure, being so near her favorite child; and Kate and old Auntie, happy in not being separated, did their best in making their small home as comfortable as possible. The first keen anguish of Kate's sorrow in her father's death and George's faithlessness had been deadened; and her spirit being strong, she struggled bravely for the mastery, and found great source of comfort in her new labor. 
               "If I may not be happy in my own way, I will do my duty, which is the next best thing; and if my book is a success, who knows--" The girl paused, almost afraid to think, but reveling in her new happiness. "It might have been." Perfect happiness and love in her father's life as well as her own; and, as she repeated the saddest of sad words, she thought of her book, of its possible success, and faith kindly added the two next lines: 
                      
                        "Ah, well! for us all some sweet hope lies 
                        Deeply buried from human eyes." 
                     
                  
                
               She had been working hard for months; for no work is so weary as that of writing, and even if successful, brain-work makes so little show in proportion to the exertion required. It had become a passion with her, as I have said; she wrote night and day, as who would not be obliged to do in order to accomplish what she had done in so short a time? For Kate's book had been written in less than six months. She could see herself, plainly, where her pen had dragged, and the jagged, uneven corners that she had tried to smooth out; now she did hope the critics would not see as plainly. No one knew but herself how much she dreaded taking her book and hearing her fate, for Kate had no confidant to share her anxiety. She felt very doubtful of the merits of her work, now that it was finished, but then if there was any worth in it, it must be published, for there was so much need of the money it might bring. For Mrs. Ashton's demands had increased in proportion to their means; and she felt that if through any exertion of her own her mother could be satisfied, that effort should not be wanting. Kate always acted on impulse, and never delayed any task however painful; and as her book was finished, and her trial must be gone through with, she decided she would do it directly,-on that very day. Her mother would not have helped her if she had told her, and she had no one to share her disappointment if it came; it would be hard enough to bear, but she could bear it best alone. 
               So Kate put on her bonnet and tied it very tight over a hard, choking lump in her throat that she could not get rid of, as she went hurriedly down the stairs with her many days' work held tightly to her heart to still its beating. "I am a goose, I know." She smiled a very weak, little smile. Goose or not, it did not help in making her feel better. 
               As the girl walked rapidly along, for Kate was in a great hurry, we can see how much she is like what her father was. John Ashton's loose, swinging gait, in Kate was the same, only what was loose and uncertain in the man gave grace to the girl, and toned down the energy and hurry of her purpose. 
               This energy shone all through her life, and the very strength of her spirit served to make that life's undoing. She would have worked her fingers off for her mother if her mother would only let her be to work on alone, and stay away, and not fret her; for Kate felt when with her mother as though she had been feeding on her life-blood, she was so weakened, harassed, and tormented, so literally unstrung. All the worst qualities of her nature were fostered, as they had been in her father's case; and she often felt irritated, and hopeless, not only by her mother's foolishness, but equally by her injustice. Mamma might pet Florie, and give her all she had of love, and she would stand it bravely, but she grew discouraged, and her heart was more and more chilled. 
               She was writing for duty, not love; she would always do her duty for duty's sake; but we all know what a difficult task it is when there is no love to soften the hard, cold path of duty. She had an immense capacity for love, even animals were treated tenderly by her; and her heart, finding no other outlet, had all been given to George. Her love had grown with her, and been so rooted in her heart that it could never be eradicated; and the girl's dream love was the softening influence of her life. She could love but in one way, with her whole heart, and if by any chance that love was deadened, as it had been for a time, she would suffer keenly. Her heart must have some outlet for its great want,-and her dream hero now filled that want, and made her happy while dreaming, though he might never be able to realize all she destined him for. 
               In her calm, cool moments she would take herself to task for many things, and see as well as others wherein she foiled. If she had loved less she would, not have been made so miserable by George's treachery; but then no one could see through her glasses; and if it were all to do again she would most likely do the same. So where was the use of regretting, we cannot make people different from what they are? Kate Ashton was herself, and she could not be different from herself, and could love but in one way, making that love her life. 
               It is dangerous and wearing, this kind of love, and I would not advise any one to encourage it; but then, after all, if these highly-strung natures suffer much unnecessary pain, do they not also have more pleasure than others? The very keenness that adds edge to the sharp blade that tortures them, brims to overflowing their cup of pleasure. 
                
               So Kate hurried on her errand with all her nerves strung and heart beating to hear her fate. And at last the goal was reached, and Kate is standing, looking at the large, handsome store from the opposite side of the street, while she reads the name of the great firm, J. R. Levering & Co., in bright gilt letters on the sign. She looked at it timidly, and hardly knew how to get across the street, she so much dreaded her errand. Therefore she turned her back on the offending object, hoping to gain courage, and gazed very hard at some Morocco pocket-books in a store-window, glad of anything to delay the time. 
               But this would never do, she would never get over at this rate; so just as when we take a dose of medicine we swallow it down quickly, and put a sugar-plum in our mouths afterward to take away the bad taste, Kate started across the street, almost running, though she was very doubtful of the sugar-plum. Her face was pale and resolute, though there was a spark of don't-care-deviltry there, as she hurried over, regardless of the mud, and saying, goose! goose! goose! to herself, by way of keeping up her courage. No doubt many who saw her would think she was a veritable goose, indeed; but, remember, she was of a highly imaginative, sensitive temperament, and one who was not so, could hardly sympathize or understand the torture she was enduring. 
               It was an immensely large, handsome store, and, as Kate looked hurriedly at the numerous clerks, I think the poor, inoffensive young men would have been quite frightened if they could have witnessed the various transformations they were going through in her busy brain. Not ordinary, inoffensive young men, but demons of her fate; if they had only possessed veritable tails and horns, it would have been some relief. 
               "Is Mr. Levering in?" Kate, who did hope she would not have to talk to him before all those young imps, tried to look easy and unconcerned. 
               "No, miss, but won't you wait? We expect him in every minute." 
               "Do you, really?" She looked as though life and death waited on the issue, and certainly mystified the young clerk. Then she felt like biting her tongue off while she bent over a large cat and busily stroked its tail instead of its head, for she did not know what she was doing, though she was trying to appear unconcerned. So Kate stroked the pretty pussy as she called it, and said, goose! goose! goose! to herself, at least twenty times. 
               "Are you being attended to, miss?" Mr. M., one of the partners of the firm, no doubt, in kindness, came up to her. 
               "Yes, thank you." Kate, whose nerves were strung to their highest tension, was quite in despair when spoken to, and did wish they would leave her alone. She was trying her best to collect her thoughts, and think of something nice to say; but the more she tried the more hopeless her task became, as every instant her confusion grew more painful. 
               But at last Mr. Levering, who has come in at some remote door of Kate's place of torture, is at leisure, and will see her; and she followed the young clerk into Mr. Levering's private office at the back of the store. He was a very fine-looking looking man, and so young to carry the weight of that vast establishment on his shoulders. She had decided in her own mind that he would be ugly, old, and cross, and she was hardly prepared for the change, and did not know that it made her task at all easier. She did wish she had worn a nicer dress instead of a fifty-cent lawn. Goodness gracious! cotton gloves, too,-how provoking! But when she looked at his kind, earnest face, for he was just the kind of a man you or I would go to in trouble, she felt reassured. He was much interested in Kate's intelligent face, though he intended to do his duty, and no more; for publishers are so pestered by young authors that they have become callous and weary of the different calls on their sympathy; and then men, happily for them, are not as tenderhearted as women. 
               "Where is your plot laid, Miss Ashton?" We see Kate had been frank with him, for he already knew her name. 
               "In England." 
               "That is just it; I knew it! Why could you not lay the scene in this country? Young authors always make that mistake-writing of places where they have never been." Mr. Levering brought his hand down on the table. 
               Kate said she did not know; in truth she felt as though she did not know anything at all any more. Then her hero's name was found fault with, as of course it should have been; for she had not chosen a very sensible one, but had thought more of a pretty name than she should have done. Kate had a good deal of that quality men call firmness in themselves, but obstinacy in women; so she thought in her heart he might talk just as he pleased, but she knew that a good name was essential. 
               She did not care for Lily, and Rose, or Orlando Aldebrand, but she would always be sorry when she read about a nice Jerushia or Mehitable Jones that she had not possessed a better name. If her husband's name were Samuel or Abram she would not write it slowly, and make those loving little flourishes and touches about it that she otherwise would have done. No, she would rather hurry the process over, and every time she looked at it she would think, what a pity. 
               Kate once knew a Peter Spriggins, an extremely nice fellow, and it took weeks and weeks for her to get over the influence of his name. She did not like anything jarring, but had an infinite love of the beautiful even in small things. 
               "Talk as you please, Mr. Levering, of course I cannot contradict you; but I defy you to write or even imagine in a piece of poetry a Hannah, though Bayard Taylor has done so. It makes me shudder, the very idea of such a thing." Kate thought all this, but she could not say it; for although she was bright enough, she was not a good talker. 
               Sometimes she; would talk till she was surprised at herself, and at other times she could not think of a word to say; rack her brains as much as she could, the words would not come, and the effort only made her more stupid. Kate, as she sat opposite Mr. Levering, with the large table between them, was perfectly conscious of her gloves and everything about her, and not at all at her ease. The more earnest he became the more lost she felt; she knew she was talking like an idiot; but what could she do? Pound away on the table as hard as you please, Mr. Levering, but if it had been Kate's head you had been pounding instead, you could not more hopelessly have jumbled all her thoughts. 
               Her heart warmed to her new friend, for she plainly saw the kindness he intended; if she could only have done as she wanted, it would have been all right; she would have accomplished more in ten minutes than an hour at this rate. If she could have pushed away the large table, and taken a low seat beside him, treating him as she used to do her father, it would have helped her on. Even if she could only have taken his hand, anything to break that barrier of formality, she would have poured out her whole heart; for her heart warmed more and more when she looked at him, and decided he was just the man she would most wish for as a friend. 
               But, for all that, all the geese condensed into one would not have made a sufficiently large bird to express her idea of herself. She was the goosiest goose under the sun. Mr. Levering talked to her patiently and kindly, and she could not think of anything nice or even sensible to say. What a shame it was! He would be a goose, too, if he did not hand back the book; how could he expect her to write anything worth reading? We see Kate was in a high state of indignation with herself, but that, of course, would not help her on; and as she looked hopelessly round her at the quantities of books, she felt like an atom of dust on one of their covers, so small was her opinion of herself. 
               There was no use in thinking of that, however ever; she had put her foot into it and could not draw back, but must do the best she could. So she tried to collect her thoughts and acquit herself creditably, so that Mr. Levering should not regret his kindness and sympathy. He, of course, had no idea how badly she felt, and would no doubt have been quite amused if he had known, so there was no excuse for her making herself so ridiculous. Fortunately, Mr. Levering had met her father, several years before, and was quite interested in Kate on that account. 
               She was very happy when Mr. Levering told her he would keep the book, and have it read, and tell her what he thought of it. It was a warm September day, when her cloth cloak was much too heavy, but Kate did not feel its weight, but walked on happily, for she had a great many things to attend to. Fortunately she had taken a list with her, or I doubt if she would have succeeded at all in her purchases; for even with this assistance, she gave herself a great deal of trouble, and several times went far out of her way, and had to go back again. But what did she care for trouble now? She felt as though she were walking on air, and wondered at the people she met, they looked so warm and uncomfortable; and she thought it a delightful day, and did not see the clouds of dust that were choking every one but herself. Everything was seen through rose-colored glasses. Even to get rid of the book for a time was a relief; and now that it was gone, she felt as though she could breathe again. 
               So Kate went on her way truly happy for a time. If papa were only alive! Her eyes filled with tears when she thought there was no one to sympathize with her, no one to share her joy. 
               "May-be he did know of her struggles and sorrows; I do wonder if the dead know what is going on here on earth?" Kate was lost in misty speculation, a true dreamer like her father; so we will leave her for the present and see what was really the end of her labors. 
               Her book was written in less than six months; it was written at all times and hours; and Kate, the audacious girl,-she trembled when she thought of it,-had taken it in the rough, not even properly punctuated or corrected. She felt much ashamed of herself, and wished she had not been so hasty. But no, she would not wish it back; let it go; Mr. Levering would not judge her unkindly, and may-be it was just as well. 
               All through her dreams she remembered his kind face listening to her so patiently while she blunderingly told her tale; and Kate was so grateful for his sympathy that she lit her most brilliant tapers, and burned her sweetest incense on her new shrine. Let him reject the book and cut it up into mince-meat, it was just what she most needed to bring her out; John Ashton's firmness came up here, and Kate's obstinacy, as she decided that she would write on forever, if it might be, but she would succeed. She had the qualities most essential for success; she had no vanity, and was persevering; Mr. Levering need not have put on gloves to handle his subject with her; though she would feel more keenly than others and wince under the lash, she would not resent it, but would have received no end of rough treatment, and acknowledged frankly that she deserved it. 
                
               She did not think her book wonderful, as some young authors do, but was very modest of its merits. Everything must have a beginning, and there it was; she would take any amount of advice, and would have studied Hebrew, if Mr. Levering had convinced her it was essential to her success. But still this debatable quality remained, and would peep out now and then. Mr. Levering might tell her to write about a Peter Spriggins, and she would have done it. He might have been a very nice fellow, according to her rendering of his character, but still he was Peter Spriggins; he might do many great things, but there was a vein of ridicule running through all her description of him, and he never could be in love except with a Polly Pumpkinhead. No, let her select her own name, and leave a blank for Mr. Levering to fill in, and she doubted, when he had read her work, if he would have the heart to write Peter Spriggins. She knew perfectly well what Mr. Levering meant; the name was not the grit of the matter, and that Mr. Levering, though he expressed it more elegantly, did not want her to exhaust all her energy in a name. 
               Kate had the spirit of mischief strongly developed, so she stuck to the ridiculous side of the question, and made believe she did not know what he meant, though she was bright enough to understand all he intended she should. When she thought of his kindness, her eyes would fill with tears; but as she said long ago, as a little child, she must have her frolics for recreation. 
               He was the dearest, kindest, best man that ever lived; let any one say anything to his discredit, and she would have warmly defended him. "He was so good." And that, in her simple way, meant more than pages of praise in another person. The book was rejected; but it was so kindly done that she felt more obliged than she would have done by another man's accepting it. Mr. Levering explained to her the reason plainly and forcibly, telling her she had written too hurriedly, but encouraging her to persevere; and any one seeing Kate on her way home, after hearing her fate, would have thought that she had been successful. That one little ray of comfort did her so much good; she had such an humble opinion of herself that it would not have made her vain if she had been successful; her standard was so high it would always weigh her down. 
               She had been told that she was beautiful, and she liked to hear it, as who does not? But paying her compliments was like pouring water on a duck's back,-it made no impression. She knew she was beautiful at times, and she would scan her face, and could see more plainly than others wherein it failed. She might be beautiful, but there were a great many things more so, and she deserved no credit; it was not of her own doing, and she could not help it. God had been very good, and it was a great gift, and she would do all she could to show that she valued it; but then beauty is but skin-deep, and is a dangerous gift, as it often turns people's heads. 
               Tell her she wrote well, and she had some merit of herself, but her face was not her own work, and, as old Auntie said, she had no call to plume herself. Beauty is well enough, and women should be good looking, if possible; good looks do not make so much difference, and are not of so much importance to a man. Beauty is very well, but it was weighed lightly in Kate's scale; worth, greatness, and intellect all came before, and beauty was far, far down in the rear. It is simply the gilding to enrich the whole,-the cup would be just as useful and good without it; but if God in his infinite mercy give you beauty, value it, but do not let it turn your head, for you will soon find that it has no merit of its own. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               KATE worked harder than ever now, encouraged by Mr. Levering's kind words; and he interested himself in her, and seeing that she possessed the latent power of genius only requiring to be trained, did all that lay in his power to help her. She was given manuscript to read, and learned to talk understandingly of what she read; and he lent her many books, particularly such as would assist her in style, for it was what she most needed. She often laughed to herself, and had told Mr. Levering of her terror on first coming to see him; for now that these visits had grown so pleasant, she could easily laugh at the sufferings she had endured in her first interview. 
               Mrs. Ashton and Florence, interested in their trifling daily cares, did not notice Kate's comings and goings; and old Auntie, who was quite as busy in keeping her pots and pans bright, was more thoughtful for her young mistress's happiness, and often smiled, well pleased, and would stop to listen while Kate, in the gladness of her heart, would hum some tune low to herself, or laugh her old, merry laugh. The color was coming back to her cheeks, her step even spoke of youth and hope; and Auntie, noting the change, was happy, and forgot to sorrow for her church, and the friends she had left. 
               It is only the idle who are truly wretched: busy people have not time to be unhappy; and Kate often wondered at the perfect peace that had come to her when she thought of her father's death and George's treachery, and the life that might have been hers. But then she would think of the two lines of the poem she loved, and while dreaming of her book and what lay before her, would breathe a prayer of gratitude that the sweet hope which had been hidden had come to her in such pleasant form. 
               The petty, worrying, daily cares lay lightly on her spirit, and Kate had given up expecting or longing for sympathy; and though her sick heart often pleaded, she had learned to still its beatings. The change was doing her good, and the noisy, bustling streets, even the people she met in their hurry, spoke to her of work and earnest life; and Kate was living for the present in hope of what the future would bring. Her visits to Mr. Levering were a never-failing source of pleasure, something to look forward to and brighten her daily life; and though her mother was just as tiresome, and her foolishness was just as worrying, Kate lived a life by herself, and if cold and hard for one so young, she was at least contented. 
               Young people naturally expect affection in those around them, for it is only after years of disappointment and trial that the heart becomes thoroughly chilled. Having no experience, not knowing life, they look hopefully in the future, and think that it holds all of good, not realizing that few, if any, are truly happy. Kate was learning these sad lessons early, and her cross had come in the want of affection of her mother and sister. 
               "Mr. Ferverrier, Miss Ashton." 
                
               Kate was in Mr. Levering's private office, talking to him of a manuscript she had been reading, as the stranger passed through the room, and the words of introduction were spoken. Kate raised her large, dark eyes to his face in greeting, not knowing what an influence the man was destined to have in her life. 
               "That is Henry Ferverrier," Mr. Levering explained, when he had left the room. "He is my right-hand man, and has more to do with the business of the firm than any man in the store. Fifteen years ago he came to me for employment, and ever since that time he has been trustworthy and reliable, and has supported his widowed mother in comfort through his exertions." 
               "He has a good face." Kate raised her own, much interested in the stranger's story. "He looks like a foreigner." 
               "Yes, he is of French descent. His father was a French artist who came to this country expecting to make his fortune; his health, however, failed him, and he died, leaving his wife and child entirely unprovided for. For years Mrs. Ferverrier toiled and supported her boy and herself; and now, for over twenty years, that boy has taken his father's place, and cared for his mother royally. 
               "He has become reserved; his whole life is given to study; he is a man of very deep feelings, though modest withal, so that he shuns strangers. I introduced him to you, child, for I wanted you to know him, as I think you will find many interests in common; and I know no one can better help you in your studies and present labor than Henry Ferverrier." Mr. Levering laid his hand on the young girl's shoulder, while she detained that hand in both her own and raised it to her lips. 
               "Mr. Levering, how kind, good, and thoughtful you have always been for me! what would I have done without your sympathy?" Tears of gratitude dimmed her eyes; and Mr. Levering laid his other hand on her dark-brown hair, and wondered at the likeness that lay between Kate's face and her father's. For Mr. Levering had met Professor Ashton several times during short visits that he had made to new York, and admiring his wealth of intellect, he naturally took more interest in Kate on her father's account. 
               "Mr. Ferverrier is situated very much as I am." Her thoughts returned to her new acquaintance. "I live alone and take care of mamma as he does of his mother,-only I have Florie." She paused, and her face lighted. "Florie and I are not much alike, Mr. Levering, but I would like you to see my sister, for she is very pretty." 
               After this, Henry Ferverrier and Kate met constantly; at first it was only a bowing acquaintance, but one day, Kate finding him in Mr. Levering's private office, and that gentleman being away, they were both much interested in looking at wood-cuts for engraving on steel. From, engravings they talked about books and different things they were interested in, and Kate was much surprised, on looking at the clock in going out of the store, to find she had been there nearly an hour. 
               "This won't do at all, and is not business-like." Kate laughed to herself as she walked home, quoting one of Mr. Levering's favorite expressions. "But Mr. Ferverrier had certainly made himself very agreeable, and it was very pleasant, the time seemed so short." 
               After that she met her new friend at the circulating library, for they were both subscribers; and many a short half hour was passed in pleasant talk. Then Kate became acquainted with his mother, and grew quite fond of old Mrs. Ferverrier, she was such a nice, chatty, merry old lady. And Kate grew so intimate that she even took tea with her one Sunday evening; though Florence met them together on the street, and told her mother that Kate was such a strange girl, and formed such doubtful acquaintances, for she had met her walking in Broadway with the queerest old woman, in the funniest poke bonnet! And Florence laughed at her own wit, though her mother looked seriously troubled, and begged that she would talk to Kate and ask her not to wear cotton gloves, for they were so very ungenteel. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               HENRY FERVERRIER was a studious man; he had had to labor all through his life to support his mother; and had never given thought to the softer emotions, as he had had no time for other than serious thoughts. Sometimes, when working on through the years that had passed, he had grown disheartened, and wondered to himself if the life he was leading was the beginning and end of life, and what life was worth if that were so, if it held no other good. A daily striving and working to keep the means of life together, and for ho other good purpose. Simply to keep on living in his unlovely way; living as a machine, to eat and sleep, without any greater depth of feeling; no warm kiss of love or words of sympathy when he came home disheartened and tired. 
               Oh, Love! You bright-winged angel, the beginning and end of all life, how much you gild and glorify all that you come in contact with. Leveling age to the same stand-point as youth, making plainness beauty, and giving life where all had been dead before. To be the life's life of one creature, and to heap beauties and graces on that one, only thinking of the best gifts which you can strive for to shower on the loved one. There comes a period in every man and woman's life when parental affection seems cold and tame, and even the love of those most dear to us seems dead; there is something warmer and stronger needed which some hearts never find. All this Henry Ferverrier had felt, though he did not know how to express it. He had striven and labored on for his mother's comfort, at times feeling sick and faint when these moments of discouragement came. 
               People say that it is a happy thing to do one's duty: so it is; but is one fully satisfied and happy in so doing it? Duty is a hard word after love, and I doubt if any one were ever dead enough to live, eating and drinking and doing well, apparently going through a mere animal existence. But who will doubt that even these seeming dead souls are fighting a daily conflict in their own hearts; only shown by some impatient word which those around them call temper, when it is simply the heart's sick plaint? Battling over and over, trying to chill that uneasy member, which never will be satisfied. 
               Love is one of God's greatest gifts to man, and people may scoff as much as they please, but in their own hearts, if they pause to think, they recognize its power, and know equally well how many souls it either makes or mars, how many lives it renders miserable, as well as truly blessed. If you had spoken to Henry Ferverrier of love, he would most probably have smiled, and said he had not time for such nonsense, yet even now all unawares the little messenger was whispering in his ears. 
               Kate's bright, loving face, and serious dark eyes, looked at him from every page of the book he read; and when he took up his pen to write, the same face held a place on the fresh sheet of paper he held before him, and he could not blot it out, however long he wrote. He told himself that he was forty-five, nearly thirty years older than Kate, quite old enough to have been her father; but though he said it to himself every time he thought of her, it did not still that thought; and when they met, he entirely forgot to take the parental part. Love only laughed the louder at his vain efforts, for love was laughing at him in secret, glad of his bewilderment. He might call himself a fool fifty times a day, as he often did,-but what good did that do? It only made him use an ugly word fifty times too often without achieving any good result. 
               He had been in the habit sometimes, when the store grew too noisy, of going up-stairs to write, as he could be more quiet there. He had a snug little nook, shut in by boxes, and packing-cases, though he seldom now sought its shelter, for all unawares to himself he lingered down-stairs each morning, wasting much valuable time, and all because he feared that Kate would come, and he might miss her. And then when at times impatient with himself, he would go up-stairs resolved to write, only to find how useless all his efforts were. One morning, after a vain attempt, he had given up his writing, and had come down to the store; he was as usual battling with his heart, for it had been so long chilled that the new flood of sunlight startled and bewildered him, and he} hazily knew whether to be glad or sorry, he felt so entirely unstrung. He had spoken impatiently to Mr. Levering, his best friend, and was full of contrition for his fault. 
               "Ferverrier," Mr Levering laid his hand kindly on his arm to detain him, "there is something wrong with you; I have noticed it the last week, and I expect my little friend Kate has more to do with your trouble than you would be willing to acknowledge. She is a good child, and very beautiful; I do not blame you, for if I were not a married man I think I would try my luck there myself." 
               "Nonsense!" The word came readily to his lips, and then seeing Mr. Levering's pained face and naturally frank, the truth was told. "I believe I am in love, as you call it, Mr. Levering." His contempt for himself was genuine, while he shamefacedly bit his lip. "Miss Ashton is but a child, and I am forty-five." 
               "Tut! tut! man! Is that the trouble?" A smile played round the corners of Mr. Levering's mouth. "I never knew you wanting in bravery, and if Kate does not care for your age, why need you? I am sure it is more her business than yours." 
               "But it is impossible." 
               "Why, have you asked her?" 
               "No." The word came slowly and doubtfully. 
               "Why are you so certain, then? It has always been my motto never to stand idly fighting with shadows; find out the worst at once, you can't torture yourself more than you are doing. If the girl has bewitched you, get her to remove the spell; you are entirely spoiling yourself as a man of business in nursing your trouble like a sick chicken. I have missed you sadly the last few days, and want to see you back to your old self; so be sure Kate and yourself settle matters soon.-They would do well together," he half murmured to himself as Henry left the room. "If I were only young again!" a sigh for his lost youth, mingled with many old melodies, was dancing through his brain. He had watched Henry Ferverrier's course for years, and fully respecting the determination and principle he had shown, cared for him as if he had been a son of his own. Poor Kate would have been quite overwhelmed if she had known that all unwittingly she had entirely upset the business of the firm that day. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               SHE did not know how it was, but little by little the truth was known, and Kate knew that she loved him; and by every movement and action she knew that Henry loved her better than if he had said it a thousand times, for he had never gained courage to confess his love. Little by little, as I have said, she knew all this, and it was with such wild joy and happiness that her dreams paled in their realization. She knew that he was good, and worthy of being loved; for Mr. Levering had told her how he had striven and toiled for many years, just for duty's sake, and nothing more; steeling his hart against softer emotions, and shutting himself out from the greatest blessing of man's life, simply because he was good, noble, and unselfish. 
               Mr. Levering had told her all this, but it was as though she had known him all her life, and had never had any life except through her love. She had told him of her struggles before he had known her; of her sorrow in her father's death, of her friend the hermit, and even of her love for George; that love appeared so trivial now, she could talk quite calmly of it, and then, too, she had been so lonely all her life, and sadly needed sympathy. Sometimes she would look back on the days she had passed so short a time before, and wonder if she were dreaming; how her life could ever have been different from what it was. Then she would check herself, and while shudderingly thinking of the past, would fall on her knees and pray for her love. "O Father!" was the prayer ever on the girl's lips, "cast me not back in the shade, for now that I have known the sunshine, it would kill me!" 
               These moments came but rarely, for Kate was top happy to; think; she loved as she had not loved before, for she reverenced and respected him for his goodness, as much as she loved him. There were no doubts now, but reason cordially went with and encouraged her heart's most passionate feelings. Her face grew almost childish again, and the harassed, weary expression left it. "Oh, papa!" she would think, "if you were only here to share with me the measure of my joy, for mamma and Florie do not care. But they will! They cannot help but love him." And the light of joy and triumph would shine from her eyes, so sure was she that no one could help but love, and share in her love. 
               Old Auntie was the only one who appeared to notice the change in her young mistress; and she would smile, well pleased, on hearing Kate's merry laugh, or look proud and happy in doing some little office for her; braiding her glossy, rippling hair, or fluting a collar for her darling's neck. Even little Soc noticed the change, and shared her happiness; and the dog would appear quite solemn, as though he understood, when she tried to tell him of her happiness. 
               It was wonderful how much nonsense our serious Kate could talk; but her wildly-loving heart had been so shut in to itself, and she had known so little sympathy, that now that it had at last burst its bounds it threatened to overwhelm whelm her in its full tide. The sky appeared bluer, the earth more beautiful, and all nature added to and sympathized with her joy; and the girlish grace and follies, and the warmth with which she entered into the most trifling duties of life, proved that the center of all life beat with redoubled force and vigor. 
               "If mamma could only understand! if Florie only knew! But Florie never will know." And Kate would sigh for her sister and think: "Florie does not understand it; she has never known what it is to love as I love, to be unutterably and most perfectly happy." She would remember how, in answer to some speech of her sister's, she had said: "Florie, you do not understand the blessedness, as well as the perfect misery, of loving as I have loved." Then she would laugh gayly to herself, and think how foolish she had been, and after all how little she herself had known what it was to love. 
               "I had almost thrown my heart and soul away, but through the Father's help I was saved. Oh, Father! you know how I have been tried; and if it is Thy will to try me further, give me greater strength to bear, for I do not know." And then she would pause to wipe away the quickly-blinding tears. Poor child, she had had so much sorrow in her life, she feared to question the measure of her joy, and could hardly realize it. 
               One morning she had gone to Mr. Levering's, and, not finding him in, waited in his office, every moment expecting to see him return; she had waited so long that she feared her mother would miss her; and disappointed in not seeing Mr. Ferverrier, she was leaving the store, when she remembered she wanted some foolscap paper. The stationery was kept on the second floor, and Kate ran lightly up the back-stairs, as they were more in her way, and she wished to make up for the time she had lost, by hurrying as much as possible. It was the dinner hour for the employees of the store, and Kate found the place entirely deserted, except by one young clerk; and having succeeded in getting what she wanted, and wishing still further to gain time, she walked to the front part of the store, intending to go out by the front entrance. 
               Envelopes, and even pen-holders, appear imposing when seen in such quantities as they were here, and Kate, as she looked at the immense supply, wondered how it was possible that they could ever be exhausted. She was walking along, dreamily, as was her wont, when she was arrested by a voice, and Henry Ferverrier stood beside her. 
               "You have come right into my den, Miss Ashton. You did not know I sometimes came up here to read and study,"-he pointed to a comfortable arm-chair, entirely shut in from the rest of the store by packing-cases and boxes. "I had given up all hope of seeing you this morning, and having a headache, and wishing to be away from the noise down-stairs, I came up here intending to write. I am preparing an article for the magazine,"-he pointed to the papers that he had disarranged on leaving his seat. "Come in and see how comfortable it is; I will let you try my throne." He pushed his papers still farther to one side, while Kate, nothing loth, followed him. 
               "I came to see Mr. Levering," she explained; "but was disappointed; and wanting some paper, and knowing I was late, I was walking through the store, intending to go out by the front entrance." 
               "When I detained you." He took her hand fondly in his. It was the first time they had ever been alone, and Kate could not remember clearly how it was; but the next moment he held her in his arms, and was pouring words of passionate love into her ears, and they were talking as though their love had been a thing known and confessed for years. 
               "You love me, my darling! Say it, Kate, over and over again." The man's soul had caught fire and was warmed with the warmth of her love. "I can hardly believe it, Kate, my darling! my life! my love! And so you have forgiven and forgotten all the past, and are ready to love again." 
               "No, Henry!-the girl's face grew sad and serious,-"I have not forgotten how nearly I lost my life in a dream. Oh, Henry! I am almost afraid to think what my life would have been without you!" 
               "Do you know, child, that I am forty-five; quite, old enough to be your father?" His face had again grown serious, while the light of love shed its halo over hers; and though her eyes were dim with tears, she threw back her head and laughed gayly. Love had tinted all before her so brightly that she was the same girl who roamed through woods with her boy-lover, and sailed on the calm depths of the little River Thames. 
               "Papa would have been over sixty if he had lived; so you see I prove you are not true in what you" say." Her eyes sparkled merrily through the tear-drops. "But as for that, Henry, what do I care? Should I dole out and measure ray heart as a miser does his gold? You do not know what love is; men never love as women do And as for your age, I did not fall in love with that, but simply with you. Add one year, or take off twenty, I would not know you, so why should you wish for change? When we talk of love, talk of what pertains to it; I did not ask you how old you were, for I did not care; if I had stopped to think about that I should not love you, for love never reasons, it only glorifies all it looks on. Ask the flower from whence comes its fragrance and beauty, and see if it can tell; so ask me equally why I love? Long years ago I loved, only to be wakened up and find the world cold and dark." Her slight form shuddered. "If you had known papa I think you would have understood me better! Papa always lived in a dream, and was only happy when so dreaming. Oh, Henry!" the girl raised her hand to her face, "do not wake me up; it would kill me! Let me live in the sunshine, I would die in the shade! I would trust you always, and forever; with me to love once is to love always! Love me as I love you, without doubt or question! I love you, that is all I know, for it is all my life' She paused, while her brow, neck, and face were flooded with the crimson tide. He might think her unwomanly; but what else could she do but tell the measure of her joy when it had attained its perfect fulfillment? 
               "God bless you, Kate!" The arm that encircled her drew her closer to him, while her blushing face was hidden on his shoulder. "My joy has come late in life, but it is doubly dear on that account. My only thought now will be to prove worthy of your love and trust. But, child, you do not know, you cannot realize, all that you are giving me! You are not yet twenty, and so beautiful!" He paused, as she raised her head for an indignant denial, and then her face softened and saddened. 
               "If you do not trust me, why do you love me? I never could love one I did hot trust. Henry, never say what you have said again; you only pain me by your doubt. You talk of my youth and beauty, do you want to make me hate God's best gifts, as teaching you doubt of me? Your trust is not as great as mine; but never let me feel that want, unless you would give me cause for sorrow. Long years ago I saw my image with its one canker-spot, and I was tempted to a great sin, for I nearly lost my reason; now I see my image in its full perfection, and if it should be shattered I would die. I cannot live without my love, and I can only love in one way, with my whole soul!" 
               "My darling! my little one! my love!" he brokenly murmured the words,-"I have gone through life so lonely, to find in the end how perfect and full of joy it is. I trust God I may never be sorry, or think I have done wrong in taking all your youth and beauty, that you, with your generous heart, make so light of!" He smoothed her rippling hair. "You will be great, too, my darling. God grant I may not be wrong in taking your young life, and all your so unselfishly give me!" He had lived so long alone that he even yet doubted his happiness, and wanted to be contradicted. 
                
               "Wrong! sorry!" Her bright face was raised, while her eyes shone indignantly. "Never say such words again, Henry; for if you doubt me I will think you do not love me." 
               "My darling! my perfect one!" His voice was broken with the depth of his passion, while he faltered the words, "I would take you in my arms even if we were out in the open street. I would take new promises from your lips!" 
               "Don't!" Kate half drew back, laughing. Then her face saddened. "Never doubt me, Henry; love me with your whole heart and soul as I do you. Will you?" 
               "Yes," the man promised; "I will trust you, my darling, through thick and thin; my own warm, loving, constant Kate, always as true and loving. It is well you love me so, darling, for I almost doubt my happiness, and will need your constant reassurance to be certain of its truth. Life is not long enough to measure the joy of this moment Oh, my darling! my darling! would that we could both die now, for I doubt my happiness and dread the future!" 
               There was as much sorrow as joy in their troth-plight, for the man and girl had both led serious lives. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               KATE never knew how she walked home, it was as much a mystery as the way in which her love had been confessed. Henry came with her to the door, and she could hardly realize what she was doing, so great was her joy. Timid, and dreading to meet her mother, yet wishing to tell some one of her happiness, Kate sought her mother's room, "Mamma, I hardly know how to tell you,"-her radiant, beaming face was raised to her mother's. 
               "What is the matter now, Kate? What has kept you so long? I have been waiting for the book you promised me. You knew very well that Florence could not come to-day." The peevish, fretful face was raised to hers, and the questions and reproaches were poured one upon another. 
               "I know, mamma, it was thoughtless." She smiled brightly, as she could not check her joy so quickly. 
               "Very thoughtless; I do wish you were more like Florence, Kate. I never can make you my companion." The constant reproaches came only too readily. 
               "And don't you care, mamma?" A little, half-passionate sob rose to her lips, but was stifled. Even now could not her mother forget Florie, and take some interest? in her, if only for a few minutes? 
                
               "If you have anything to say, Kate, why can't you say it quickly? You know I never like to be kept waiting." 
               "I have found a great joy, mamma: I feel as though I were almost a child again. Oh, mamma! he is so good, so good!" The words were hurried one upon another, Kate hardly knew what she said in her happiness. 
               "You grow more like your father every day: how can you expect me to understand you?" Mrs. Ashton's face was not patient; while Kate withdrew the hand she had laid so eagerly on her mother's arm, reading her want of sympathy, and chilled to the heart. 
               "Oh, if papa were only here! if I only had some one! But Florie won't care either." The hot tears dimmed her eyes as she thought, and then she made another effort. 
               "I hardly know how to tell you, mamma, and you won't help me!" Her lip trembled. "I have found my lost love! Mr. Ferverrier loves me, and I love him with my whole heart!" The passionate words would have vent, while the hot blood dyed neck, cheek, and brow, and her eyes sought the carpet. 
               "Found your lost love! Love with your whole heart! Kate, don't you know that such expressions are not proper, such an intense state of feeling is not lady-like? You should choose your words differently, you should think more." Mrs. Ashton crossed her hands self-complacently. "If you were only more like Florie. I never cease to wish you were more like your sister, Kate." 
               "It might have been better for us all if I were like Florie, but I cannot help it if I am not like her." One large tear trickled down her cheek. 
               "Mamma, won't you care?" 
               "Of course I care, child." Mrs. Ashton laid her hand on her daughter's. "I have only your happiness and Florie's to think of." The words sounded well, and Mrs. Ashton liked them; she did not pause to think how little she had her youngest daughter's good at heart when it interfered with her own selfish pleasure. 
               "Who is Mr. Ferverrier, Kate? Who are his family? Do you know if he is a proper person?" she questioned. 
               "I love him, mamma!" The three words contained for her all of good in this world, and she could not think of anything else to say; besides, it was hard to bear her mother's cool manner. 
               "I told you not to use such words. Florie never talked so about Charlie. Don't you remember how your sister acted?" 
               "Yes, mamma; but I can't be like Florie; why can't you take me as I am, and try and see as I do? I do want some one to care." Again her lip trembled. 
               "What would Florence say?" Mrs. Ashton looked weakly round the room, as though she hoped her daughter would come in and talk for her. 
               "I don't want to know what Florie will say," the passionate words would have vent; "I want to know what you think, "mamma; that is all I care for." 
               "And when and where did it happen?" Mrs. Ashton was never tired of asking questions, and never as much at home as when she had something to complain about. 
                
               "At Mr. Levering's. He was not in, and I went up-stairs to get some paper. I don't know how it was; but, mamma, he loves me." 
               "You don't mean to say that Mr. Ferverrier proposed to you at Mr. Levering's store? What a peculiar proceeding; how very improper; he must be an exceedingly strange person! I never can trust you, Kate, you act so strangely; he will have no respect for you." 
               "It was not in the store. I told you I went up-stairs to get some paper, and there was no one there but ourselves, and a young clerk at the other end of the store. Mamma, I don't think people can be very much in love if they stop to think about all these things." 
               "Do you mean to insinuate that your sister does not love her husband?" Mrs. Ashton was at last interested. 
               "I don't mean anything but what I say." Kate's face had lost much of its lightness. "I am very tired, mamma, and you must be tired, too; you never will understand me; I was silly to think you might." She bit her lip passionately. "Oh, papa! papa! If I only had some one now. But he loves me! he loves me!" The brightness again returned to her face as she thought of her joy. 
               Kate had left her mother's room, and was running lightly down-stairs to Auntie, not seeing Soc, who was curled snugly on the stairs, too lazy and sleepy to move, though he heard her coming. Soc had no idea of the mischief that his sloth would occasion; he only held one eye dreamily open, calculating the chances of his mistress's choosing the other side of the staircase instead of the one he was on; while Kate, who did not see the dog, whose woolly coat was so much the color of the carpet, tripped and fell down the few remaining stairs, while Soc, like a ball as he was, tumbled down over her. She had twisted her ankle in falling, and for a few moments the pain was intense, and she found it impossible to rise, but lay moaning, unable to move, while the chief cause of all the mischief looked at her with sleepy eyes, occasionally licking her hand, to show that the mischief he had wrought was entirely unintentional. 
               "What is it, honey?" Auntie, who had at last heard her call, bent anxiously over her. 
               "I stumbled over Soc, and fell down-stairs. I have hurt "my ankle, and it pains dreadfully." She was white and faint with the pain, as she made a faint attempt to rise. 
               "Don't move, you'll hurt yourself more, Miss Kate!" The next moment she was in Auntie's arms, carried into the parlor, and laid upon the sofa. It proved a more serious injury than they had at first imagined, for the sprain resisted all Auntie's simple remedies; and before night her ankle was swollen, and the pain so great, that the doctor was obliged to be called in. 
               "It is a severe sprain," was the doctor's verdict. "You will be confined to the house for several days. I hope you are patient, for sprains are tedious things." 
               "I will be as patient as I can." Kate smiled, while she thought she could bear almost anything, now that her great joy had come to her. 
               That night, comfortably fixed in bed by Auntie, she lay dreamily watching the spire of the neighboring church, whose gilt cross glittered brilliantly in the moonlight. It was a lovely night, and Kate had the light put out, and the shutters opened wide, to enjoy it. Auntie was bustling about the room putting things in order, though every now and then she turned to smile as she looked at her young mistress, for Kate's face was very bright, as she was truly happy, although the pain of her ankle was not yet deadened. 
               "What is it, honey?" Auntie drew nearer in sympathy, as Kate threw both arms above her head and smiled brightly, lost in happy thought. 
               "I would like to tell some one, Auntie. I tried to tell mamma, but she never understands me." The smile, for an instant, left her face, only to return with new brilliancy. "Auntie, I have had a great joy to-day." She looked up in her nurse's face and laughed, a little, happy, half-embarrassed laugh, while her fingers played nervously with the sheet they held. "I have found my lost love." Auntie, who was eagerly studying the face she loved most on earth, and wondering at its great beauty, stooped, and pressed a kiss of sympathy on the sunny-brown hair she was smoothing. 
               "Who is it, honey?" 
               "Mr. Ferverrier. I only knew to-day. And, Auntie, I love him with my whole heart, better than all the world. He is so good! so good! I can't tell you how good he is!" Kate, sure of ready sympathy, and wanting to tell some one her joy, drew closer to her old nurse, till her head was laid upon her shoulder. "I tried to tell mamma." The tears dimmed her eyes, while she made an impatient movement with her head. "Mamma never understands, and never cares. If papa were only here, I think he would care. I don't know how it came about: we were upstairs in Mr. Levering's store when he told me. I don't remember anything else, I only know that I love him more than I can tell you. It appears as though I had known him all my life, I can't tell how I lived before I knew him. Oh, Auntie! I don't know how to be thankful enough for my great joy! It is glorious to be so perfectly happy. I have been shut out in the cold so long." 
               "And is he handsome, Miss Kate?" Auntie, who was a great admirer of good looks, waited anxiously for her answer. 
               "I never thought." Kate laughed a very happy laugh. "He has a true, good, noble face. I know you will love him for my sake." 
               "Is he as tall as your father was, Miss Kate?" Auntie's doubts were not yet satisfied, though Kate was only too happy in answering her questions, it was such a great comfort to have some one take an interest in her happiness. 
               "I think he is as tall as papa was. I don't know. What a funny old woman you are to ask such questions! I never thought about his looks; it is enough to know that I love him, though he has the most perfect face in the world for me." 
               "But he should be handsome, Miss Kate. Mr. Mason is not bad to look at, and I should like your sweetheart to be handsomer nor Miss Florie's." 
               "You dear, good, jealous, old Auntie! you want me to have everything better than Florie." She smoothed the withered cheek caressingly with her hand, for Auntie's warm interest and sympathy were very precious to her. 
               "I love him with my whole heart! I can't tell you how different life looks since I have known him! I never knew what it was to love before! Is not that enough? I don't care how tiresome mamma is, or how she pets and spoils Florie. I shall always now think that I have some one to love me; Only so short a time ago I was thinking what difference would it make if I made a name for myself in the world? No one would really care, and now he cares for all I do. You don't know how very nice it is! It will be so pleasant to know I have some one to take care of me, and think for me; I have always had to think so much for mamma. I feel as though I would like to give up all the will I have ever had, and never judge for myself any more. I am so tired of thinking, that I would be willing to be almost an idiot. If papa was here I think he would understand me, Auntie." There was as much pain as pleasure in her happiness. 
               "Miss Flore, I guess, will have to do her share now." Auntie shook her head. "I would be real glad to see her take her turn some day; she and the missus are more like each other anyhow. Miss Flore always favored the Con-ways more nor your pa's folks." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               KATE told her lover that she was coming to see Mr. Levering the next day, and Henry waited until the morning had passed away, every instant expecting to see her enter the store. Then the afternoon had gone, and still she had not come; he hardly yet realized the change that brightened his life, and wanted to clasp her hand, and have some word or look to reassure him that all was right. 
               That night he walked up and down for nearly an hour in front of Mrs. Ashton's house, longing to hear some word from; his love, yet not willing to go and make inquiry for himself. He was a reserved man, and since his love had been confessed, air that pertained to Kate had become dear to him, and he did not wish, by any rashness of his own, to give her trouble. Therefore he turned sadly to his home, though he gained new hope when he thought of the morrow, and that he should surely see her then. 
               If he could Only have seen Kate, as she lay happily gazing out of her window, thinking and dreaming of him, how different life would have been for both of them! 
               The next day still the same disappointment, and the third day dawned and closed, and still no Kate. At first he thought that she regretted what had passed between them, and wished to avoid him. Then softer thoughts came, there might be some good cause, she might be sick; and gladly clinging to any hope, he wrote his first love-letter. 
               It was a long letter, of over twelve pages, for all the wealth of the man's heart was poured out in it. He told her the history of his past life, though every now and then the story was broken into by passionate pleadings for her love. He told her how he had passed the house at night, and spoken to little Soc, who sat on the doorstep; how he had stopped to pat and caress the woolly head where he had seen her hand rest. It was a letter written in broken sentences, but breathing a passionate tale of love all through; such a letter as the man was half wild in writing; telling her of his bitter disappointment in not seeing her, and pleading for the love he doubted to be his own. 
               Florie happened to be spending the day with her mother, and was the one who went to the door, and received the letter when the postman came. She had no settled plan of action; but the letter was put carefully away in her pocket, as she thought she would keep it and give it to Kate, before she went home, for Florie was selfish, and she was afraid it would make Kate talk, and she did not want to hear any more of Kate's nonsense, as she styled her sister's piteous plaint for sympathy. 
               Kate's ankle was a great deal better, the swelling had much gone down, though she was still a prisoner in her own room; the doctor telling her, that she must be careful for a day or two longer. She was troubled by her confinement, and thought of writing to Mr. Ferverrier; but then she hardly knew how to write, and hoped every day that she would see him. Even if she had written, she did not know how to get her letter to him; her mother and Florence were very rigid in their views, and usually thought everything she did wrong, and she was afraid that if she had asked them to mail a letter for her, she would prejudice them more against her lover. She could not trust Auntie, and knew that Auntie would not be able to find Mr. Levering's store if she had sent her there; for Auntie, who was accustomed to the quiet streets of New London, was always lost and bewildered in the busy thoroughfares, and it took all her thought and care to keep herself from being run over by the carts and wagons in the street. 
               "I will see him in a day or two," Kate thought, trying to be satisfied. "It won't be so very long. He said he would trust me." If she had only known, as Florie kissed her goodnight, of her precious missive that was safely stowed away in her sister's pocket, how much pain it would have saved her; for Florie had entirely forgotten the letter. Selfishness in the beginning caused the negligence, and that afterward led to still worse results. 
               It was not till in taking her dress off that night that Florence remembered, and held the letter in her hand. "What would Kate think?" She was half-provoked with herself, and was almost persuaded to send it to her sister; but delayed, thinking it would save so much trouble, and be so much better to take the letter herself the next day. Then worse thoughts had their place; she had no intention of going to the door when the postman called, and probably it was for some good reason that the letter had fallen into her hands. "It was not a nice-looking letter' She examined the plain paper curiously; and then hardly having any settled purpose, the seal was broken, and the letter lay open in her hand. The next moment she would have given anything if it had not been done, and in her trouble she was almost ready to confess her fault to Kate. Then fear of what her husband would think held her back, and as before, she reasoned that no doubt the whole thing was providential, possibly she might be able to help Kate still further. Florence felt more like helping her sister when she looked at Mr. Ferverrier's writing, which had been blotted in several places by the eagerness of the hand that wrote. Kate and Florence's handwriting were almost exactly alike; and they had often talked and laughed together about the mischief they could make for each other; and Kate had laughingly told Charlie that she would write him scolding letters which he would be sure were from his wife. When we once do wrong, and conscience is deadened, the way to still greater wrong-doing lies plainly before us; for row as in Florence's case, the broken seal suggested something still further. She might save Kate a great deal of pain and trouble that would result from an unequal marriage; and Kate no doubt would be glad, and some day would warmly thank her that it had been done. Of course she would not have done it if Kate had been engaged, Florence reasoned with herself, but she could not care for Mr. Ferverrier very much when she had only just heard of his love. It would be so much better for mamma, and all. The all, her own comfort, was the most prominent reason in her own mind; for Florence was trying to salve her conscience, and make her treachery to her sister appear as she wished it. 
               If poor Kate had only known of the wicked, cruel note that was written by her sister, chilling her lover's joy, and turning his trust to bitterness. Florence wrote, in her sister's name, that she had received the letter, and that she was sorry, but her mother did not approve of her love, so that all must be at an end between them. She did not try to soften the blow, the fact was simply told; and Florence had grown so callous that she did not even blush when she signed her sister's name at the end. 
               I cannot picture to you Henry Ferverrier's despair and anger, so unjustly poured out against poor Kate; he was almost crazy in his disappointment, while Mr. Levering was equally as much incensed, but did all he could to comfort him, and finally persuaded him to leave the city for a time. The firm intended establishing a joint publishing house in Paris, and as they had much business in France, and as Henry understood his father's language perfectly, he appeared the best suited person to transact the business. They had talked of the plan before, and it seemed to Mr. Levering now almost providential; and he was urgent in his advice to Henry to leave New York for at least three months, when, by constant change of scene, he would grow more reconciled to his sorrow. 
               It was strange that he who had so lately vowed trust to Kate should so soon forget his promise; but Kate's absence from the store and her accustomed walks, besides the letter, was sufficient proof. All his preparations were made for leaving in six days, and then his heart was softened, and he again wrote to Kate. It was a kind letter,-such as a true and noble man would have written,-almost too kind and unselfish for my liking after the treatment he had received. He told her that he should always love her, and if she ever needed a friend to call on him; he excused her falsehood on account of her youth, and his own folly, and begged her not to be pained if he could not stay at Mr. Levering's and see her as usual. He told her that he had provided a home for his mother with an old friend, and that she need not be unhappy on her account, for she would be comfortable without him; and finally he finished his letter with a prayer for her comfort and happiness. 
               It is needless to say that Florence watched for the postman, and intercepted his second letter, for she had gone too far to go back, even if she had wished to do so. It was strange that she was not touched by the words she read, it was such a broken-hearted outpouring; but Florence read calmly, and unmoved: the only part that appeared to interest her was when he spoke of leaving New York. She had acted rashly and hastily, not pausing to consider the danger and consequences that would result on her treachery being discovered; she had many times wished her work undone, dreading the scorn she merited, and hardly knowing how to shield her fault and prevent Kate's meeting Mr. Ferverrier. But now her path had smoothed for her, and if she could only prevent Kate leaving the house till he was gone all would be right, for Florence magnified the danger, and did not know that even if Mr. Ferverrier had remained in the city he would have avoided her sister quite as sedulously as she had wished. 
               Both letters were put carefully away by Florence, for though she wished, she could not destroy them, something held her back whenever she attempted to do so, and she found it impossible. 
               She easily gained her husband's consent that she should stay with her mother till Kate's ankle was strong again; and she was all devotion to Kate, and received her warm words of love for her kindness unblushingly; while poor Kate imagined that her sister was sorry for the coldness with which she received her confidence, and was trying to repair her fault; and Kate had known so little love since her father's death that her sister's kindness appeared doubly dear to her. Day after day passed, and Kate was only able to limp about her room, and ten whole days had slipped away before she was able to leave the house for a short walk. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               MRS. ASHTON and Florence were sitting together talking of Mr. Ferverrier, and Florence was listening well pleased, while her mother stated her foolish reasons for disliking that gentleman, she having never met him. Florence's conscience was troubling her, so she listened well satisfied, her mother's disapproval of Mr. Ferverrier being a kind of cloak for her own treachery. 
               "But, mamma, do you think it would be a proper thing?" Florence was busy smoothing out her silk dress, for she had been out, and had been caught in a shower, and it would wrinkle so provokingly. "You know we don't know anything about his family, and all that. You know it would not be nice." The weary puckers gave her much thought as she smoothed them over her knee, thinking selfishly that it would not be pleasant at all if she had to care for her mother instead of Kate. She was afraid that by some chance Mr. Ferverrier would be delayed longer than the time he mentioned in his letter, and that Kate and himself would meet in disregard of all the trouble she had taken to keep them apart. "Now that her mother was just fixed in her house, it would be such a pity! No doubt he would want all of Kate's money, and that would be so hard for mamma. It would have been so much better if he had never known Kate, she quite hated the man, he had given her so much trouble." 
               "I never thought, Florie dear!" Mrs. Ashton looked perfectly helpless. "Kate never consults me, she is so different from you in that respect." 
               "Kate is so decided, mamma. You are sorry it happened? You were so comfortable before." 
               "Yes, we were just getting fixed. It is selfish in Kate wanting to unsettle all so soon. Florie, don't you think you had better have your dress pressed before you go home?" Mrs. Ashton was already wearying of the subject. 
               "But, mamma, you don't think Kate is seriously attached to him? Girls are sometimes fond of flirting." She was anxious to be set at rest, even if her sister's character suffered in her mother's estimation. 
               "Kate was always willful." Her mother's face was pettish. "I wish you would talk of some one but this horrid Mr. Ferverrier, with his great, big, inky hands. I am sure he can't be at all like a gentleman if he spends all of his time down in that nasty store. You can't think how dusty it is, Florie; the books that Kate brings home to read often quite soil my hands. If I were a man I should employ my time so differently, I would have books and horses, and devote my time to the study of art." Silly Mrs. Ashton did not consider that the wherewithal to gain the books and horses must first be thought of. 
               "You are sorry it happened, mamma?" Florence questioned. 
               "Of course I am, child! You cannot understand the anxiety of a mother, and Kate is so peculiar. But, Florence, I wanted you to tell me how my new black dress is to be trimmed; the old braid on it is quite shabby." 
               "It was such a nice arrangement, it is too bad! If Mr. Ferverrier only goes, as he said he would," Florence half-murmured to herself. "I am afraid you won't like Mr. Ferverrier." 
               "I know I shall not, Florence; I have quite made up my mind not to like him. I can come and stay with you, darling!" Mrs. Ashton was well satisfied that somehow she would be taken care of without any trouble to herself; she did not notice that her daughter's face had clouded. 
               Florie was not as much pleased as her mother at the proposed arrangement. "Mamma was so tiresome, and Charlie would not like it at all; it would interfere with all their plans." And Florence's face grew quite pettish as she thought, "I do wish Kate had never met this Mr. Ferverrier; and I do hope he will have the sense to go, as he said he would. Mamma, you would be glad if anything happened to keep them apart?" 
               "Very glad, Florie, but Kate is so headstrong, you need not hope to influence her." 
               "Kate should think of you, mamma." Florence entirely forgot what a bad example she was setting her sister. 
               "Just when I had my room fixed and all. It is too bad! too selfish! Kate shows so little thought, she is so much like your father," Mrs. Ashton complained, never thinking of her own selfishness, in wishing Kate to give up the great happiness that had come to her in a good man's love. 
               That same evening Florence went to her sister's room, to bid her good-night before she went home; and as she bent to kiss her, Kate threw both arms around her neck and held her fast. The poor child was so delighted by her returning strength; she had taken a short walk that day, and knew that she would soon meet her lover; the happy thoughts were almost too much for her; and, as she lay thinking of him, her heart yearned and panted for sympathy. 
               "Florie dear, you don't know how happy I am. What does mamma think?" The face was eager she raised to her sister's. 
               "Kate,"-Florence's face held little sympathy,-"mamma does not like it; I think you have been hurried. Who is this Mr. Ferverrier? do you know anything about him?" 
               "He is the whole world to me, Florie, the best and dearest man that ever lived!" 
               "But that is no answer at all, Kate, and will not satisfy mamma." 
               "It satisfies me though. I cannot expect to please mamma." Her face was very wistful, while her voice grew sharp in its pain on seeing how little her sister was interested. 
               "Florie, do, dear! try to think of him as I do! Try to see him with my eyes!" her hungry heart pleaded. "Mamma did not care, but I hoped you would, for you are younger. Oh, Florie! say one kind word of him! just one kind word!" She held her sister's hand tightly in hers, while a large tear trickled down her cheek as she pleaded. Her mother and sister would never care. What would waken them up? Not even now, when their old relations were all changed, and there was a chance of losing her. "If I were dying it would be all the same," she murmured. "I am useful, and that is all." 
               "How wrongly and wickedly you talk, Kate!" Florence kissed her sister. "Don't you know that mamma and I only think of your interest? You have so little judgment in every-day matters, and are always so led away by impulse, that you cannot think it strange we do not trust you more." 
               "Never mind, Florie, you shall know, and love him!" She smiled proudly and confidently. "It has been so cold, and dark, you cannot know what my life has been since papa died. And now-oh, Florie! it is worth all the misery to be as happy as I am. When you suffer greatly you understand all things much better; and my joy comes with redoubled force, I feel as though I could love all the world now." 
               "Well, Kate, good-night, I hope you will be well soon." Florence was tired of the subject and only too glad to get away. While walking home Florence wished more than ever that Kate had never known Mr. Ferverrier, and that she had not been obliged to act as she had done. She had no idea that Kate would care so much, and she was hardly prepared for the consequences, of her own act. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               Two weeks had passed since Kate had seen Mr. Ferverrier before she was again able to go to Mr. Levering's store; she had been much interested in her book since her confinement to the house, so the time did not appear as long as it otherwise would have done. She had not noticed any change in her sister's manner, though if she had not been so preoccupied she might have thought it strange that Florence, within the last few days, had been so constantly with her mother, and also that she was so unusually affectionate to herself. Kate had no time for idle thought, and could not tell that Florence, half-repentant her treachery, was anxiously watching her sister, trying to assure herself that she had acted for the best and that Kate would not care. 
               "Kate has not been to Mr. Levering's this morning." Mrs. Ashton's face was fretful. "I want a new book, and Kate will go late because I am waiting! Kate is so mean to me, and so selfish about her writing!" Poor Kate, who wanted a pair of gloves badly, her own being shabby, had decided she would go without them, so that her mother should have what she wished for. She had been waiting till her mother should definitely make up her mind what book she wanted, for if she had consulted her own feelings she would have gone out as soon as possible. 
                
               "Kate never understands me, Florence, and she is so stupid to talk to." Mrs. Ashton still continued her complaints. 
               "Kate has not much feeling, do you think she has, mamma?" Florence questioned, anxious to be contradicted. 
               "No feeling or sympathy! I was reading Adam Bede the other day, and though I know Arthur went to join Hetty in Australia, Kate will persist that he did not." 
               "George Eliot said so, mamma." Kate, who had come in the room for last directions before going out, smiled, much amused on hearing the old discussion renewed. 
               "Kate, I never knew any one as obstinate as you are, you are just like; your father. You may talk as much as you please, for I know Arthur went to Australia to join Hetty, though you say he stayed with his friends at home." 
               "It was George Eliot; I thought the author knew much better than we did." An amused smile played round Kate's lips. "You are paying her the greatest compliment, mamma, in being so much interested in her work. I am going to Mr. Levering's, and will get you what you want." She looked at her shabby gloves, and thought, "Well, no matter, mamma must be amused." 
               "I don't want anything at all, Kate; when I have no one to talk to, or take an interest in the books I read, I soon lose my pleasure in them." Mrs. Ashton, who never thought of sparing her daughter's time or trouble, would be quite ready when Kate came back to send her out again if she had changed her mind. 
               "You will stay with mamma, Florie? I won't be gone long," Kate questioned her sister as she left the room. 
               "Kate is looking unusually well, mamma; I think she has entirely forgotten her trouble about George, don't you?" 
               "Kate never had my sensitive spirit," Mrs. Ashton complained. Not seeing that if her daughter had been selfish, and had given her feelings play, how much harder her lot would have been. 
               Kate was obliged to carry her mother's burden as well as her own; and if her fainting spirit sometimes grew weary, and found the cross it carried heavy, what wonder was it? The blood was coursing healthily through Kate's veins, and her step was firm and elastic as she walked steadily on drinking in the fresh, crisp air. It was the beginning of October, when the scorching heat of summer is over, and kind nature sends her fresh, invigorating breezes to give us new strength. For the time the girl had forgotten her poverty, and her daily struggles, in thinking of the pleasure of meeting her lover, and possibly gaining a few words of sympathy and encouragement from Mr. Levering. 
               "Could it be that Kate had been trifling with Henry?" Mr. Levering was not pleased in seeing her apparently so careless of what she had done. He was sadly disappointed in her, and all unwittingly she was losing another friend through her sister's treachery. 
               "I brought the article you wanted." She looked doubtfully in his face, reading some change in his manner. "Mr. Ferverrier said he would read it and give me his opinion." 
               "Henry is not here to read' Mr. Levering, provoked at her coldness, and disappointed in her, answered impatiently. 
               "Not here! What can you mean, Mr. Levering?" The face that she raised was only too much in earnest; he could not think she was acting. 
               "Henry Ferverrier sailed yesterday in the steamer for Havre. He is gone abroad on some business for the firm, and I do not know when he will return." 
               "Gone abroad? I do not understand' She raised one hand to her forehead. The revulsion of feeling was so great she hardly knew what ailed her, though her heart had grown like a piece of lead. She was not acting now, and Mr. Levering took her hand kindly in his own, while he wondered at the mystery. 
               "You are not well, Miss Ashton?" 
               "I have been writing very hard on that, article. I hope you will like it." Again her hand was raised wearily to her head, while she tried to collect her thoughts. "I have had very bad headaches lately, and I am afraid one is coming on now." She smiled, a painful, sickly smile, as she handed Mr. Levering the roll of manuscript. The strain was almost too much, and she wanted to be alone to think. 
               "How much she is like her father! Poor girl! poor girl! How badly she is looking!" Mr. Levering murmured to himself as he watched her walking up the street. "There is some mystery here. I cannot undersand. Strange! strange! Women all are enigmas! Possibly she has not understood Henry, and thought she might coquet with him. Vanity is the root of all evil; but I never could have thought it of Kate Ashton: the girl has sadly disappointed me." 
               Kate's pale, worn face was forgotten in the pressure of business, though often that pale face came back to trouble him with new doubts of her truth. 
               "Surely, I heard the front door close." Mrs. Ashton, who had forgotten that she had told Kate not to get her a book, was listening to hear her come in. 
               "I did not hear it, mamma." Florence, who dreaded her sister's coming, could not tell her mother the cause of her uneasiness. 
               "No doubt Kate has gone to her room and will not be down for an hour, Kate is so thoughtless when my comfort is concerned." She was too indifferent to make any effort to ascertain the truth as she gazed peevishly round the room. 
               "I will go and see, mamma." Florence, who knew that her sister had come in, and dreaded meeting her, determined they had better get over their interview alone on account of her mother's questions. She found Kate seated on her low bed stunned and helpless; not exactly realizing what had happened, only knowing that all interest in life was over. She was not weeping, she felt as if turned to stone; and the dreary hopelessness of her face, as she looked up when Florence entered, quite shocked her. 
               "Kate, mamma expects the book you were to bring her,-where did you put it?" Florence tried to talk indifferently as she lifted Kate's bonnet from the bed where she had thrown it, longing to lift the heavy weight from her brow. Kate did not answer, but only put one hand wearily to her head. "Kate, are you sick, dear?" Florence drew near, putting one arm round her sister's shoulder, and almost sorry for her treachery when she saw her pallid face. "Are you sick, dear?" The question was again asked, as she pressed a kiss lightly on her forehead. 
               "Henry Ferverrier is gone!" The face Kate raised was so pitiful in its misery, and the words spoken so almost childlike in their earnestness, that a tear dimmed Florence's eyes. 
               Poor Kate, she would soon get over it, and it would be so much better for all of them, was Florence's selfish thought. Not realizing that the four words contained all the brightness of her young life. 
               "You don't care, Kate? Where has he gone?" Florence knew only too well, but her deception must be kept up. 
               "Across the ocean." The words came clearly from her pallid lips as her head sank back on her sister's shoulder; they had been written on her brain in letters of fire. Poor child! she was so sick at heart, so utterly tired out and wearied, that she only thought of rest. To have gone away in some quiet corner and then, that moment, have given up her life. But to commence her life a second time, she was too much stunned to realize all that was contained in the words; Florence did not know her sister's nature, and could not understand that she had most probably signed her death-warrant. 
               "Kate, did you bring the book for mamma?" 
               "Oh, Florie!" Kate held her hand, awakened to a new trouble. "Stay with mamma! I must be alone to think or I shall go wild!" 
               "I will stay, Kate; don't, darling!" Florence, frightened by her strained, eager face, would have promised anything to quiet her. 
                
               "Take off your cloak." The cloak, Kate's dress, and her heavy boots were removed by her sister. Then, after robing her listless form in a warm dressing-gown, and covering her with shawls, Florence darkened the windows. "Go to sleep, darling!" Florence arranged the pillows more comfortably, and bathed her forehead with eau-de-Cologne. "I will stay with mamma all day; you will be well again to-morrow." Feeling very dutiful and good, Florence was perfectly well satisfied that she had done her duty. 
               "Mamma, Mr. Ferverrier sailed for Europe yesterday, and Kate has a bad headache, and has gone to sleep." 
               "You don't think she cares for him, Florie?" 
               "I think she will forget him soon." 
               "You did not think it was a proper connection?" Again the mother not quite satisfied, appealed to her daughter. 
               "No, mamma, I think Kate will do much better." 
               "Did Kate bring the book?" Mrs. Ashton's fears for her daughter were easily satisfied, and already her mind was busy with selfish thoughts. 
               "No, mamma, I think she forgot it." 
               "Kate is so careless!" Mrs. Ashton complained. Kate had thought for her mother so long that even in her trouble she was expected to do the same. 
               All that afternoon Mrs. Ashton and Florence talked on indifferent subjects, while Mrs. Ashton congratulated herself on the great treat of having Florie with her all day. She never thought of her suffering child, who lay on the bed where Florence left her entirely unvisited except by Auntie, who vainly tried to rouse her. A warm cup of tea was brought, which the poor girl did her best to swallow, to please her nurse; but she could not eat the dainties Auntie bought with her own pocket-money to tempt her. 
               "So bright and hopeful this mornin', it done my old heart good to see her as she passed the kitchen door; and now she is more like the blessed master than ever, as I saw him last in his coffin," Auntie murmured, while the tears stole down her cheek. "Sometimes I think Miss Kate ain't long for this life, she takes everything so to heart, and I know whose door to lay it at. Miss Florie and the missus sittin' there fussin' over their fineries, and never so much as heedin' the poor lamb as is breakin' her heart upstairs. There is a day of judgment for all, which is some comfort, though I prays the good Lord I may never live to see Miss Kate took first." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               FLORENCE, as she bade her sister good-night, was frightened and half-remorseful when she saw the hopeless, stunned expression of Kate's face. 
               "You are not ill, Kate?" She questioned, as she pressed a hurried, regretful kiss on her forehead. 
               "No, Florie,"-Kate put her hand wearily to her head,-"I am so tired!" 
               "You will be all well again to-morrow." The elder sister tried to speak reassuringly. 
               "Yes." The word came slowly; Kate did not know what she was saying. 
               "It is very provoking," Florence murmured to herself as she walked home, dreading she knew not what. "Kate is so different from other girls, she always makes such a fuss. It would have been dreadful for mamma if Kate had been married, and to a poor man too-I don't know what I would have done. No doubt she will thank me by-and-by. Mamma could not have lived with me, it would not have been nice at all, and mamma and Kate are so niclely fixed now." So Florence reasoned with herself, and tried to ease her conscience, though conscience would not be so easily stilled. 
               Two days afterward Mr. Mason having met Kate in the street, and being much struck by the change in her appearance, spoke to his wife. "Florie, I met Kate in the street, and she did not see me till I spoke to her; the girl studies too much, you should not let her go on as she is doing." 
               "But, Charlie, what can I do?" Florence questioned. "You know how peculiar she is, we never were alike." 
               "Can't you keep her more with you?" 
               "You know she has to be with mamma," Florence pouted. "I am so tired of hearing you always talk about Kate; just as though I could help it, if she chooses to study her eyes out!" 
               "But, Florie, you surely love your sister, and must see how badly she is looking?" The young man laid his hand earnestly on his wife's arm. "There is a hopeless look in your sister's eyes that I do not like; do you know if she has any cause for trouble?" 
               "You are getting as full of fancies as Kate." Florence blushed painfully, dreading more than ever that her husband would read the secret. She had acted thoughtlessly, and selfishly, and had not counted the cost; and now that the deed was done she dreaded the consequences of her selfishness. That same day she was at her mother's, and meeting Kate, who had returned after accomplishing some errand and was going wearily up-stairs, she stopped her. 
               "Kate,"-Florence laid her hand on her sister's arm, struck by the pallor of her face,-" don't you feel well?" 
               "Yes, Florie, only I am so tired!" It was Kate's constant cry. 
               "Charlie says you should not study so much," you are making yourself look like an owl. You won't study so much, Kate?" Florence asked anxiously. 
                
               "I can't, Florie, I am so tired all the time." 
               "But, Kate, you will make yourself sick if you go on as you are doing." She looked uneasily in her sister's face. "Can I do anything for you?" 
               "No, thank you, Florie." 
               "You would like me to stay with mamma?" Florence questioned, knowing what was the greatest relief to her sister, and wishing to do something. 
               "Yes." Kate tried to look pleased, though she had grown so tired and listless that the thought of her mother's questions did not trouble her as much as it had done. 
               "I should like to finish my book, and then-" 
               "And then what, Kate?" 
               "Oh, nothing. I don't know what I am talking about," she sighed deeply. 
               "You should exert yourself, dear, you will be sick." 
               "Oh, Florie!" Kate's wistful, tearless eyes were raised hopelessly. "I am so sick now I don't know what I am! I only long so very, very much to creep away into some quiet corner and die! Rest! rest! forever! How blessed it would be." 
               "Don't, Kate." Florence's hand was laid on her arm. "Don't talk so! It is wicked to act as you are doing. Think of mamma." 
               "Florie!" she paused, then sighed shudderingly. "Don't tell me to think: I am thinking always. Oh! If I could only stop! Night after night, and all day long. Florie! Florie! I am so tired! So utterly wearied out!" 
               "Kate, dear, do try, for mamma's sake and mine." One arm was put round her sister's waist, while her blue eyes were dimmed with selfish tears. "You will try, won't you, Kate?" How bitterly she regretted her conduct, though she had no thought of doing justice and exposing her want of faith. 
               "I do try, Florie!" Kate shuddered. "I am so tired now, I have not heart or strength to struggle on. I am only waiting! Waiting! I don't know what for. If you could only find and take away my trouble. I am sick and faint; my heart is sore and bleeding, and I cannot pause to think of the reason why." 
               "But, Kate,"-Florence interrupted, much troubled, and anxious to still the uneasy prickings of her conscience, she was eager to soften her sister's grief, though she did not know how,-"it is very wrong and unchristian like to talk as you do." 
               "I know it, Florie! I know I am all wrong! I have no mind or will any more. I cannot think! Oh, Florie! you do not know what it is. Always before in trouble, I have thought of God's goodness, and tried to be comforted; I think of it now, but I have not the same strength I used to have, I am always so tired." 
               "But, Kate, you do not intend to grieve always?" 
               "I do not intend anything! I do not know what I want! I am too sick, too thoroughly heart-sick, to think of anything. I would like to shut out the sun; I would like to creep away in the dark and rest; and though I say patience! patience! many times, I do not feel more reconciled. I have loved, and loved, and my love has been all my life; I only have strength to wonder why such an infinite power of loving is given to a poor, suffering mortal, when that love never comes. Oh, Florie!"-her face was contracted with pain-"I have been so happy, so rich in my love! And now all is a blank, or worse than a blank, for I am left to feel this utter void!" 
               "I never knew, I never thought; Kate, I wish you were more like other girls." Florence spoke pettishly, though she watched her sister's face anxiously, dreading she knew not what. 
               "Florie,"-Kate raised her face and gasped as if for breath,-"why do you talk to me? you cannot, and never will, know what it is to love as I have loved. To make a creature, your life's life, your soul's strength, and to love all things better; to be drawn nearer to God, through that love. To love not only when all was calm and pleasant, but when things were most adverse, I would love with my whole heart and soul, and suffer if suffering were necessary. I could do more than die, I could live and give up all that is brightest in life for one I loved! You never will know how I feel; do not talk to me any more; you cannot understand me. Don't talk to me any more, Florie, I cannot stand it!" She shook off her sister's detaining hand. 
               "If you can tell me to live without my heart there would be some use in talking; but as it is, you cannot help me, and I am doing the best I can. I have not lost my faith, and rest will come some day I am sure, though I cannot tell how and when." 
               "Florence," Mrs. Ashton questioned," don't you think Kate is looking badly?" 
               "Kate was always pale, mamma; I am so tired of hearing about Kate's looks." Florence's tone was pettish. "Even Charlie had to say that Kate looked like an owl, and that I should keep her more with me. I do wish that Kate would act as though she had some sense, and not grieve for the man now that he is gone." 
               "You don't think she cares much, Florence? Mrs. Ashton asked, not wholly satisfied. 
               "Of course she cares, mamma, but she will get over it in time,-all girls do." 
               "You did not think he was of a proper family? And you think Kate will be happier after awhile?" 
               "Of course, mamma. And now do let us talk of something different." She was anxious to change the subject. 
               "Miss Florie,"-old Auntie stopped her as she was going out of the door,-"Miss Kate grows thinner and paler day by day, and I am afeard she is not long for this world. Do you know of anything that is troublin' her, honey?" The tears stood in the old woman's eyes. 
               "Kate is well enough, and I am tired of hearing about her looks. I don't see why every one comes to me." There was more of anger than sorrow in her tone; Florence's treachery was rapidly coming home to her. "Kate will go and make herself sick, and then Charlie will know all; Kate is so tiresome and selfish. Every one would think I acted wisely; I am sure I was only thinking of Kate's good; I don't see why they should all come to me!" Florence was almost crying. 
               Every moment it appeared as though her treachery would be discovered, and Florence even dreaded what her mother would say; for Mrs. Ashton did not know how far the matter had gone, and was much too cowardly to have countenanced her daughter's conduct. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               IT was with a new and weary feeling that Kate accomplished her task-work; she wrote as if in a dream, and labored wearily through the many chapters of her book; it would not do to pause and think,-thought was no longer her, solace and companion, and it was only the greatest effort she managed to struggle on. It was in chaining her mind down and trying to forget her misery that she labored on; the closely written pages benumbed her faculties, though they could not give her rest. Florence often anxiously watched her sister's bloodless face as she went through all her duties so listlessly, and every day grew more thin and pale. Sometimes old Auntie would mead with her darling, begging her to put away her books and papers and rest. 
               "You will study yourself into your grave, honey!" her old nurse said one day. 
               "Auntie, what else can I do?" Kate's pale, hopeless face was raised, while she gave a shuddering sigh. 
               "Can't you walk with Soc, Miss Kate, like you used to do?" 
               "What for, Auntie? and where to? I am too tired to walk." 
               "Stay with your ma and Miss Florie, or do somethin', honey." 
               "I can't stay with mamma, she does not understand me or care for me, and I can't teach her to love me! I don't want to think; and writing tires me so that thought is impossible, therefore it is best." 
               "But you'll study yourself into your grave." The tears rained down her old nurse's cheeks, while Kate's hot, tearless eyes sought the carpet, and she murmured, half to herself,- 
               "I wonder if there is rest in the grave?" 
               "Oh, honey! don't! don't!" Auntie fairly sobbed, while Kate's brow knit and she looked much troubled. 
               "Don't, Auntie, you tire me I" Poor Kate, always the same cry. 
               "But, honey, say you'll take more heed to yourself." 
               "Oh, Auntie! I long, and long so for rest! If I were only sure it would come. I would like to go home to papa!" The heart-broken wail would have vent. 
               "If Miss Florie and the missus only had to notice. They never sees nothin'!" Angry tears were in Auntie's eyes while she laid one handon Kate's shoulder. "Mas'r dead and gone, and Miss Kate goin' too. Oh, good Lord! take this poor old black woman, for she's no more use, and has no call for livin'." Auntie's feelings grew too much for her, and, fearful of troubling her young mistress by her loud sobs, which she could not stifle, she left the room till she should grow more composed. 
               For two hours Kate wrote on steadily, till at last her weary hand could guide the pen no farther; and the girl slowly pushed the table away from her, while she sat dreamily watching her work. 
                
               "I used to think it would be glorious to become famous, to write a book men might read and care for; but do I care now? Who is there to take an interest in what I do? Mamma and Florie would say it was nice, and possibly the newspapers would sing my praises; but what is that? What am I writing for? To please myself, or to make the world good and better for my labor? Certainly not to please myself, and how can my dead heart have feeling for others?" The troubling thought would come, as she pushed he hair back wearily from her forehead, a favorite gesture of her father's. 
               Then, leaving her seat, and taking one close by the window, she pressed her hot brow against the cool glass, watching the children as they hurried to and fro from the large public school not far from their house. 
               "Poor little things!" Kate watched them sadly. "Is any little one among that number doomed to suffer as I have done? Oh, Father! take her home before that time comes! Let her not live if it is only to suffer!" Kate's eyes were raised appealingly to the calm, blue sky. 
               "Why is it that I have twice been made so wretched? Only again feeling the rays of sunlight, to be again cast back in the cold! Is it because I have idolized, and not loved, and you are punishing me? Oh, Father! why am I given this infinite power of loving only to feel my utter wretchedness? Why is it that I am given this wildly-beating heart, if the void is never to be filled? I can only more keenly feel how cold the world is. My heart is longing, and aching, and I in my misery grow colder to those around? If it had ever bee my lot to have loved, and been loved again, by one I could respect, I think I should have been so happy that my heart would have grown less selfish each day, and the world would have gained in glory, and become more beautiful, as I gained strength. No wall is cold!" Kate shuddered. "I am so tired! I am always tired now! If I were only with papa if I were only sure that he was at rest; sometimes my faith is almost broken. Send me rest, Father! I am so tired! so tired! I only long for rest' was ever her cry. It was in this way that Kate labored on for over a month, writing imperfectly, and with difficulty, though she never again went to see Mr. Levering. Sometimes she would leave the house fully intent on seeing him, only to turn back when she was near his place of business; for she had not the heart or strength to go there, memory was too strong for her. 
               It was a cold, rainy autumn, and Kate, who had much to do, came home one day laden with bundles, and wet, and chilled to the heart All evening she felt drowsy and stupid, and could not shake oft' her lethargy, and the next morning found her the same. How dreadful is that nausea, and distaste of every sight and sound; she was not sick enough for bed, but utterly miserable, and unfit for all her duties. It was sad to see the strong, young spirit, striving so painfully to fight down its bodily weakness. The battle was hard and long, four whole days it lasted; and in that time the thickly-written pages were completed, and her work was finished forever. 
               Mrs. Ashton noticed her daughter so little that she did not realize how ill she was; and had fought against her weakness till disease had the mastery, and the burning, raging fever held its sway. The doctor shook his head when called in, and said that he should have been sent for sooner; he was afraid it would prove a serious case. Her mother and sister felt a cold chill creep over them when they heard the same verdict as had been given in her father's case; was it to be again after that warning? Mrs. Ashton bowed her head, and prayed as she had never prayed before for the brave young spirit she had so little valued, and which had been her strength. 
               The typhoid fever was holding her tightly clasped in its deadly coils; and she was very, very ill. Night and day it raged, that dreadful sickness that made all so nauseous and disgusting. The fever was wearing her life out, it was simply a question of time; for if she did not sleep, death would be the issue. 
               One morning Kate and Florence were alone together soon after she had been taken sick; Florence, repentant of what she had done, and afraid that it Would have more serious results than she intended, was trying to rouse her sister from her lethargy. 
               "Kate took everything so much to heart, she was so much like papa, it was too bad!" Florence was quite as much provoked with her sifter as repentant; when she thought that Kate would make herself ill, and give no end of trouble. "Kate, you will make yourself seriously ill; you should rouse yourself think of mamma!" 
               "I do, Florie." Kate raised her head one instant from the pillow. "I know I am going to be very ill, ill to the death! Florie, you will be kind to mamma?" 
               "Nonsense, Kate!" Florence spoke in anger. "No wonder you are ill, when you do not try to be well." 
               "Florie,"-Kate's eyes were raised reproachfully,-"don't talk so. You don't know what you are saying, and will be sorry after awhile. I never shall be well again, something tells me so,-I have not courage or strength for the struggle. I don't think papa was ever happy, mamma and himself were so entirely different they never understood each other. Do you remember Whittier's beautiful lines,- 
                      
                        "'For of all sad words of tongue or pen, 
                        The saddest are these: It might have been!' 
                     
                   They came to mind when I looked at papa's cold, still face for the last time, it was so calm and peaceful.! I have always longed so, for love, and it only came to be taken away again. When papa died I lost more than I could ever replace; and you do not know in the years that followed how constantly I missed him. When I lost my love and faith in George my book was given to me; and though mamma and yourself could not understand me I was content, and again Whittier's words returned to my mind,- 
                      
                        "'Ah, well! for us all some sweet hope lies 
                        Deeply buried from human eyes.' 
                     
                   I thought I might be successful in my book,; and it was a comfort to have an object to work for. Then my lost love was found, and I was so gloriously happy! But now, Florie," the tears filled her eyes, "there are only the two last lines of the poem left,- 
                      
                        "'And in the hereafter angels may 
                        Roll the stone from its grave away!' 
                     
                   Have patience with me for a little while, it won't be long,-I have not strength or courage for the battle. Dear Florie!"-Kate took her sister's hand in hers and caressed it lovingly,-"you never understood me; I think you see more clearly now' She was sorry to give her sister pain, and pitied the tears called forth by her words, while Florence was so much moved she would have confessed her treachery, but just then her mother came in and interrupted them. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               OH! If Florence Ashton could only recall the past, if she could only undo what she had done! Why had she disregarded all that Kate had told her when she was working so nobly? Kate told her tale of suffering, but it was so often with some gay, laughing word that she told her story, and made light of her trouble, that she had been left to suffer on. She had borne her yoke unmurmuringly, and only now that the fainting spirit failed was her burden realized. 
               Yes, Kate was sick to the death; the fever was wearing her life out, and when that left her, God help her! For mortal man could do no more. It was the eighth day of that raging fever, Florence was sitting by her watching, and fearing any change. The girl was tired, and wearied out, and the head laid back on the arm of the chair was sadly worn for Florence Ashton. She was in a half doze,-tired nature for a moment asserting itself,-when a small, cool hand was laid on hers, and every nerve was on the alert in an instant. "Florie." Kate tried to raise her weary head, so weak now, for the fever had at last left her. But, as her sister looked in her face, how could she thank God for the change? Calm, and peaceful, all was there; but that worn face and fluttering breath was all that was left of Kate Ashton. 
               "Kate would die. Oh! If she could only undo her last month's work! If she could only bring Henry Ferverrier back, and give new life to her sister." Florence, in the agony of her self-reproach, would have gladly yielded her own life. "How could she tell Kate? It was the only reparation she could make!" So, amidst sobs and protestations, the story of her treachery was told. 
               Kate was too much weakened to be indignant, the only thing she noticed wash the letter. Over and over again she read the lines; the girl's eyes appeared never to weary. Florence's part in the transaction she hardly noticed, for Kate was too far gone, to think. Florie had brought her new joy was all she noted clearly; and the loving, grateful glances she cast upon her sister only drove the dagger further home. 
               "Thank God, it did not come too late, Florie!" she murmured over and over again. "He loved me!" She lay for a long time, both hands pressed tightly over the letter she held to her 'heart, every now and then murmuring the three words,-"He loved me!" It was only when disturbed and brought back to life that the sweet calm left her face. 
               "Kate, I did not know you cared so much; I thought it best," Florence pleaded. But Florence was talking to unheeding ears, Kate did not hear what she said. 
               "He loved Soc! dear little Soc! poor little Soc!" That one portion of her lover's letter, where he referred to her dog, appeared to touch her most. 
               "Be good to mamma, Florie, when I am gone, she will need all your care. Do not let her grieve for me, it was all my fault." As the scalding tears fell down on her thin, worn hand, how bitterly Florence felt the reproach. Her brave Kate, so good, quiet, and uncomplaining; were not her mother and herself to blame if, through carelessness, her father, and now her sister, by overwork, was near those unseen portals, opened, waiting the spirit's flight? 
               "Florie." Kate's large, dreamy eyes looked calmly and peacefully in her sister's face. "Don't grieve, Florie, I am so happy!" 
               "Don't talk so, Kate, you are better; the fever is gone!" 
               "The fever is gone, but I am going too. Yes, Florie, better, better so!" Kate looked lovingly and longingly in her sister's face, as if she would, if she could, give her some of her peace. 
               "Don't talk so, Kate." Florence's sobs burst forth. 
               "If I had had all I wanted, it would have been so hard to die, but now it is easy and peaceful. It is not a dreaded, but a welcome guest; no more battle and labor for life; but rest, rest forever! I should like to have seen George, and his wife, I always loved him! Don't look so distressed, dear!" As her sister's sobs burst forth. "I loved him, but not as you think; I have wasted a great deal of my life; but tell George, if you ever see him, that I hope he will be happy. He did me no harm, he only wakened me up; I have been dreaming all my life! My love is still my love, but his name is not George. Oh, Florie, darling! you did-not know in with-holding that letter, all you have done! I am not reproaching you." As Florence sobbed bitterly, while she kissed Kate's thin, worn hand. "Only, when I am gone, Florie, make it all right; let Henry and Mr. Levering know I was not as false as they thought me." 
                
               There was a silence, then Kate's hand again sought her sister's. "Florie, do you remember a story papa told you long ago about two artists in Rome? One worked on', and idolized his image, till the canker-spot wrecked his life; the other saw his image in all its perfection, and then died happy. I used to think the first story saddest, but I have realized both in my own life. Florie,"-again her hand was placed on her sister's bowed head,-"I will die so happy! For one moment I have seen my idol in all its perfection! Thank God, you gave me the letter!" Kate sank back on her pillow exhausted. 
               There was a (lead calm, so long did it last Florence grew frightened, and raised her head to meet the doctor's serious face. 
               "She has been exhausted; who has been with your sister, Mrs. Mason?" He spoke sternly. "She has been talking too long, and is exhausted." 
               "Kate! Kate! forgive me, Kate!" Florence's bowed head was placed beside her sister's while she pleaded. 
               "Don't, darling!" Kate's eyes opened feebly. "I am very happy. I have been happier the last few hours than I have been all my life." Her eyes closed wearily, as Florence's opened with a, strange, new fear. 
               "Tell Henry; promise, Florie." 
               "I promise, Kate." Florence bent closer over her. 
               "Call mamma." The words came with difficulty. "Mamma." 
               Mrs. Ashton's hand was clasped in her daughter's as she stood watching, and dreading any change. Poor old Auntie was standing there too, as the, large sad eyes took their last journey round the room, and a last, loving farewell of all, and then closed wearily. 
               She lay so for nearly an hour, and the weary watchers waited, hardly daring to stir, while the kind doctor held the almost pulseless wrist. 
               "She will die unless we can rouse her," the doctor said. "There has been gross neglect; she has become exhausted." He spoke sternly in his anxiety. 
               Silly, foolish Florence, how the words stung her as she listened. "Was her sister to die through her mother's and her own carelessness and thoughtlessness?" 
               Reader, have you ever had the typhoid fever, or have you ever watched one you loved through that fearful disease? Do you know of those periods of utter exhaustion which come when the fever is gone? When, unless the fainting spirit is roused, it calmly sinks away? 
               The doctor, as he watched his patient, read the truth; there was little chance for life, only one little ray of hope, for death at present held the mastery. "She must be roused." He bent over her, while Florence drew nearer to her sister, her choking sobs breaking the silence. 
               "Kate! Kate! oh! say you forgive me!" She held the lifeless hand in her own. 
               "One moment I saw it in all its perfection' The girl's mind was wandering. "Rest has come, Florie; I did not know what the end would be, but God is very kind." 
               "Poor child! It is too late!' Tears dimmed the doctor's eyes as the sad words were spoken. He read only too plainly the truth written on her face. 
               "Kate! Kate! oh! say you forgive me!" Again Florence pleaded. 
                
               There was a slight movement of the lips, the weary spirit not yet at rest; and, as Florence bent over her sister, she caught the faintly gasped words,-"It might have been! But He doeth all things well." 
               It was a bright, sunny morning, as the mourners clustered in the silent room, to take a last look of the cold, still face, whose life-struggle and battle were over. She is so changed' friends sadly murmured; not knowing the weight. of the cross that had bowed the brave young shoulders and printed deep lines of care on her brow. Mrs. Ashton sobbed in one corner, and at last was taken from the room by sorrowing friends, who pitied the mother's grief. Florie, too, found refuge on her husband's shoulder. Could not her sister's dead face recall the promise she had made to do her justice? Only old Auntie stood beside her darling. And, as the blinding tears rained down her cheeks, she struggled for calmness; and prayed God to bless her child, whose path in this world had been so stony. 
               They had brought her home to New London, to be buried with her father, and men walked with hushed footsteps, and raised their hats, as, slowly and solemnly, the bell told that a young spirit had taken its flight. All New London mourned for the child they had known and loved; who had left them so strong and full of life, and had come back in their midst only asking ing rest. She had been missed so short a time, and her mother's and sister's hope was so strong, that no one had expected the sad tidings; and it had come with a chilling, crushing blow, to many hearts. 
               "She was so young!" was the burden of their cry, as though death had unkindly cheated her spirit of its due. But the Father was more kind than her mourning friends, and had taken her weary spirit home. No one read the sad tale, and there was no one to tell; that calm, pure face had little of passion and struggle in it; and though friends mourned and rebelled against the cruel blow, would they have called her back if they had seen below the surface her weary, bruised heart? 
               It was a hard struggle, the loss of her hope; and when her faith was so nearly wrecked, the danger was great but the Father, in his infinite goodness, had given her back her faith and hope, strengthened through suffering, and made more whole. He had shown her a purer and truer life; and then had released her spirit as the battle was over and the victory won. A cross, with her name carved on it, was all that was left to tell the sad tale of her struggle for life. Alike in form, face, and mind, the father and daughter, who had been so much to each other in life were not separated in death. 
               There is something infinitely sad and beautiful in the death of the young: the form, beautiful as youth only is, untouched by the wear of time; and the fresh, hopeful, untried spirit, rendering back its burden to its Maker. 
               One year after, the world rang with the praises of the young author; her work was in the hands of all, and served as a warning and helped and strengthened many hearts. Friends shook their heads, and sorrowed still more: "If the girl could write so, what would not the woman have done?" Could they not see that it was the agonized outpourings of her spirit; and if full of genius, was not their worth dearly bought? Through life she had smoothed her mother's path, and after death the work of her busy fingers still did the same kind office. 
               George had much that this world could give' of worldly wealth and comfort, but there was an unfilled place in his heart that could not be satisfied; the pure boy's spirit had changed to the hardened man of the world, for the purer element in his life was gone. He lived in excitement, but was he happy? No; that unfilled place still remained, and troubled him. "It might have been!" And it would have been better for him if it had been so; but Kate was infinitely more happy as she was. It was hard to lose her hope and trust, and the canker-spot nearly wrecked her life; but it was better so than to have her hopes fulfilled to their disappointment. He never could have made her happy, as his was much the weakest nature, and her idea of trust and protection would have been sadly disappointed. She would have had the body without the soul, and what was that? She had loved the soul, and not the body, so it was better as it was. Henry Ferverrier's love united all the pure elements of her nature, for she respected him as much as she loved him. But it was not to be, and I can only end my story with her own words,-"It might have been! But He doeth all things well." 
               Three months after Kate's death Florence and her mother were deep in discussions of different kinds of mourning; selecting the most fashionable, while Florence answered her mother's vexing questions impatiently. She had no thought of her dead sister, who had borne her mother's foolishness so unmurmuringly. 
               "There were so many cards left to day, Florie; every one is very kind." Mrs. Ashton held a number of pieces of pasteboard in her hand. "Mrs. Smith sent a bunch of flowers; and the gardener said she told him that she wished them cut with long stems, to spare no expense, for she wanted them to be a comfort to me. "Was pot that kind?" Mrs. Ashton had forgotten her child in her selfish, daily wants; and the cards and long stems of the flowers formed the most important objects in her life. 
               Florence had recovered from her agony of self-reproach, and had forgotten her promise to her dead sister; as she reasoned with herself, "It would not do any good now, and would make so much talk. "What would Charlie think?" Florence was not ready to make the only reparation for her treachery that lay in her power; and only old Auntie, whose step each day grew slower, remembered to keep the flowers bright on her loved one's grave. 
               John Ashtbn's and Kate's life were fretted out by the weakness and foolishness of a wife and mother; and, as I read their story over, the thought will come, Does not God judge us equally for what we leave undone as well as what we do? 
               Poor Kate went to her grave misjudged by the two men she loved most on earth; for Mr. Levering and Henry Ferverrier never knew the truth. One almost loses their faith at times; but there is a just God, who judges all men. 
                      
                        "And in the hereafter angels may 
                        Roll the stone from its grave away!" 
                     
                  
                
               For those who may consider the story of the hermit improbable, I insert the following paragraph, taken from the N. Y. Tribune of Feb. 20, 1869: 
               
                  "The Cleveland Leader tells of an old hermit named Pray, recently murdered in Ohio, who was the victim of a coquette in New York City many years ago. He had lived for nearly forty years in an old hut on a lonely road. His sister, a resident of this city, found him in his retreat about ten years ago, but could not induce him to leave it. He was once a very successful merchant."
                
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
