
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Black Ralph, the Forest Fiend!, or, The Wanderers of the West .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7609
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Black Ralph, the forest fiend!, or, The wanderers of the West 
            
               OR

THE WANDERERS'

OF THE

WEST.

A         M11*A- ?TALE F OD  A  1

Y DR. J   . fROBINSON.
BOSTON:
NATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY, 164 WA SHNGTON  u
185kve ^4

1 T    A /


_,'y-1.  j

lt Ubrary

/

5.

~IITEUD  9Ofl)ZN T  Atr r  owxss, Ix Tn YEAR 1851, BY WILLIAM R. IIA'YDLN, IN
u_,     t K~OIIC OWiiT$IE DI T1ICT COURT or MASSAOU5~5

PREFACE.

IN the following romance, the writer has attempted to shadow forth scenes in the life of the
Western hunter, trapper, and adventurer. How far he has succeeded, the reader must judge.
It is easier to find fault with a book, than to write one; although in this respect the author has
no reason to complain, inasmuch as his ' SILvIm KNIFE,' and many other tales, have been re-
ceived with much more favor than he had presumed to expect. The hero of the following pages
may not be without his faults, and Gilmore and Buston may possibly be overdrawn; but if the
writer has succeeded in his design in any degree, and the indulgent reader finds a pleasant hour
over the pages of 'BLACK RAL 'H,' he will feel himself sufficiently rewarded for his labor.

c                                                                        -±    9

"  '5 7- ;

^   A               tY         r                'y

'   .r  r .   s,{             y          tie!          R1        0

(,


CHAPTER         I.
THE OSAGE.
STOOD leaning thoughtfully upon mytifle
'be night was clear and beautiful. The
fleecy clouds-that occasionally floated across
the disc of the moon, obscured it for a moment
only. The stars had a soft, silvery glow.
From th, cninence upon which I stood, I
could gaze over a vast extent of country. Be!
fore me flowed the Red Fork of the Arkansas
River. Upon my left, the distant peaks of the
Rocky Mountains were visible. Upon my right,
were prairies, stretching far away, and lost to
view in the dim distance.
Not far from me the smoke of a cheerful -fre
went curling upward. Near it were too appar-
ently sleeping persons wrapped in blankets, and
stretched upon the earth. They were the comn
panions of-my journeyingil through the West.
I had laid down to sleep in the first part of
the evening, but sleep did not visit my eyelidss.
and Ihad arisen silently from the earth without
disturbing them,. in order to contemplate the
quiet beauty of the uight;, until I could slumber
better.
r wansoon lost in contemplation. The placid
skie ;he dreamy +Wglight; the sighing of the

running river ; the gentle murmur of the wind
amid the trees, all conspired to make me reflect
 e.
As I stood in the indolent attitude I have
named, kay attention was arrested by a moving
object upon the opposite bank. At first I was
at a loss to determine to what class of animated
creatures it belonged; but as it drew nearer,
all doubts on that subject were dispelled; for,
from a stooping, itt arose suddenly to an erect
posture, and revealed the figure Of an athleti.
Osage.warrior. There was no time   lose; in
an instant my rifle was at my shoulder. I
pulled ; the look fell upon the cap, but there was
no report ; my rifle had missed fire; and a I
threw it from me in ;despar I heard a trium.
pliant laugh from the grim lips of the .atg?.
A sickness came over me ; I gasped for breath,
and felt that my last hour had come. .Iaw  he
savage level his piece ; I saw the mosbeszans
glisten upon the long, dark barrel; and .n, w
his eyes were glancing along the sightss  that
his finger was upon the trigg
How rapidly the thou ghiRythe so } hrgi the
brain in moments of deadly peril; the events
of a whole lifetime-seem,-to passe oyes the field
of the: mental vision in  a mompiat.   z
misdeds stand outbgfeore us in bol4    all

I

f
_- .-
:mss   K  '

W
t
4 t  j
a

£\ ft                                1)          /i\               ; Ci 1
L       "  f    t                    .                                                 J        i /bf


BLACK RALPH

our hours misspent come and stare us in the
face ; all the good we might have done, but have
not, is realized with a bitterness previously un-
known; we exist an age in a single flash of
time. I was not angry ; the evil demon that
sometimes rises within me was silent.
The muzzle of the warrior'srifle covered my
heart ; but he did not fire. Like the cat that
toys with its victim before rending it, he' dotzb-
less experienced a savage'delight in holding me
a moment in suspense so terrible. The sudden-
ness of the whole transaction had in a measure
paralyzed me. I knew full well that it was too
late to attempt to evade the vengeance of the.
Osage, and giving myself up for a lost man, I
awaited my fate.
But the painted savage never fired ; he fell
suddenly forward with the rifle still in his hands,
ati never moved again.
pingthe perspiration from my brow, I
wondered at what I had seen, and could with
difcultjy eedit my senses.  When I had recov-
'eret 'su$iently to do so, I took my rifle from
'tib earth, and with a heart full of gratitude,
stagg  diltowards the fie where my companions
irl eping   not knowitin how to account for
hat    had witnessed.
,'As', I a  r oaehed, one of the sleepers was
ene       y myfootsteps, and seizing his- rifle
1sap     ickly to his feet.
'   isIlInore, be not alarmed,' I managed
6   i ulats, a he was in the act of leaving
t thught it was one of the varmints,' re.
p6l Ghlinore, restoring his rifle to its place,
the trouble'? you look-kind of white.
the mouth.'
ned, as well as T was able, what had
inspired.
'eyoa hear any report when the onregen-
rate critter weut down ?' asked the trapper.
1t    sound   Hefell{as if 'th eIIHand that
, 4~.  nec him had stricken him down.'
a   enhe'll not be likely to git pgi till
S t thiYuet shallbe ?dowed, sahl Gilinore,
11inhis voie, and shaidig his hea tisti-
rigutly. And then he added in a still lower tone:

' Black Ralph is doin' his work of death.'
'And who is ' Black Ralph?' I asked, my
curiosity much excited.
'That's what I can't say exactly;' replied
the trapper, almost in a whisper, 'but he's one'
that deals out death in silence; one as can't be
tracked, nor found out; one as you can't keep
the run on ; one as is seldom seen, but -often
felt; one as is sure death to the -red varmints;
one as is alters nearand allers a great way off;
one as none on us can perfectly comprehend;
one as it isn't best to talk on a great deal  The
Ingin critters call him the 'Forest Fiend ;' but
I can't call him nothin' better than Black Ralph.
No sound gives notice of his coming' or goin',
and nobody's any wiser than afore.'
i-s it a man you are talking-of?' I asked.
'I havn't, never 1been illuminated on that
subject,' replied  Gilmore.   I suppose  it
must be some kind of a man, but what sort I
don't know.'
'Why is he called Black Ralph'?'
'It's a sort of nickname that he's got by comn-
mon consent like but the Ingins say he's black
all over,, and'6ncomnion ugly in his personal ap-
pearance, looking' like:nothin' airthly'
Then you really believe that this personage,
by some strange agency, killed the Osage war,
ior !
'It's a sure thing.  Trri that varmint over-
and you'll find a, shnall wound right in the region
of the heart.  It's allers there when Black
IaVh is about.'
I shook my head doubtfully.
'You dont seacely credit it,' added Gilmore,
'but nothing' can't be no truer.  We'll cross the
Red Fork, and you shall-see.for'yourself; for
seem' is believin'..
'It is true;' I replied, ' that I can't account
for the strange manner in whieh the 'savage fell
far d   pa entlydlad ; and after allMit uay
l e somie ruse of  which shill knew mQreanon;
Iut it does not seem to me probable thatche has
felt thepowOre4teh*read pe onage yoiuthave
beeii desefibing. ta'ouepi your ofert We will.
cross the Fork, and I can judge for myself.'

~      t

[sEE, CHAPTER I.]

*

12


THE FOREST FIEND.                15

I','

d
F

I

I)

i

By lashing together the trunks of trees, we
formed'a rude raft, upon which we crossed the
river. In a short time we reached the spot where
the Osage had fallen.  He lay upon his face,
and his, hands still grasped the rifle.
Gilmore turned him over, and there was no
sign of life within him. The moonlight streamed
down upon his swarthy chest. Directly over,
the region of the heart was a small and scarcely
perceptible wound, from whbeb the dark coagu-
lated blood was slowly oozing.
'I thought sb,' said the trapper, in a subdued
tone. *'That's his mark.'
' That resembles the wound of a rifle shot.' I;
remarked, as I attentively examined the body.
'3ut it's very strange that I heard no report.
It is a quiet night; the running of the river
makes little sound, and the leaves scarcely stir.'
It's allers so when Black Ralph is abroad.
The red critters fall down and die when they
ain't expectin' no harm. No matter what they're
doin', whether they're walkin', sittin', or stand.
in,' it's all the same ; they jump of a sudden
into the air, and fall down without a pulse of
life in 'em. It isn't one tribe, or two, or three,
for that matter, but the whole red race that s'uf
fers. The' silent tread of this unknown critter
is arter 'em by day and by night, in fair and in
foul. This ain't the first varmint I've looked on
in the course lof my nateral life that didn't know
how he cum to his eend, and coudn't give no
satisfactry account on't. -
'Very singular,' I mused.
IIt aint nothin more nor less than singular,'
added the trapper.
'What shall be done with the body?  Some
of his friends may find it, and suspicion may be
fastened on us as authors of his death.'
'We'llthrow it into the water, and let it float
towards the wigwams of his 'people,t said Gil-
more.
The trapper drew the inaniinaite fonrmof the
Osage warrior to the edge of the water, and
thirew it in.  t sank, arose againand went
yrhA the rier.

,-,I

CHAP-TER       II.
BLACK ALPa.
T is now fitting that I shbuld speak- more
particularly of myself. ,4.ro'viug disposi-
-  tion had prompted me to)become a denizen
of the forest.
For some months I had roamed through the
wilds of the West, meeting with many startling
adventures, and by some good fortune making
numerous hair-breadth escapes from the natural
lords of the wilderness-the savages.
Gilmore, the trappr, alluded to in the fore.
going chapter, and a yo ng man bthe name of
Arthur Dale, had been companion of my wan-
derings.
I sojourned in the wilderness merely fem a
love of adventure; but it was not so with Ar-
thur Dale.
Six months previously, his nearest relatives
had emigrated to the far West, with the hope of
bettering their condition in a worldly point of
view. Among these friends were a father, sis-
ter, and brother. Their intention had been to
settle far up upon the Red Fork of the Arkan.
sas River
Arthur had tarried behind for the purpose of
collecting monies due his father and others of
the emigrants. Thinrbusiness had delayed him
longer than he had anticipated, and it was some
months before he was ready to follow in the trail
of his friends. I had fallen in with him airF'ort
Gibson, and since the period of our first meet
ing we had been the firmest of friends.
Gilmore was an old trapper whom U had also
accidentally met during my peregrinations. A
strange kind of friendship had been the result
of our companionship. He seemed to entertain
for me the love of a'father, while I,,in trt"
felt for him the respect of a son.My' a4
and impulaive di position had not{  givhi
aise of offence.
Many misgivings had filled tl      fA
thur Dale as we eered te IRed
Fork. lie had confid  i               dh
friends some two days bdi
appointed. No signs of hast M
yet been found.

y of a red son of the

~-

,,,-
.-                   -_  .,    ..
.. ,°ti
,        ".    -

'4,


IBLACKL RAL' -f II

'What promptedyoyti friehditotleave a place
of security, ease and-plenty, for a wild country I
like.this? Tyasked;,o e 'day, of youngrDal6.
1 Might ,not p pound the same question to
youwith equal propriety?' he replied.
' Quite the reverse,' I answered.  .Ihaveno t
family; I endanger no person but myself'
ndVery true. My father,endangers'a young,
a d eautiful girl,' rejoined, Arthur.
M:Flora is fair,'. then ?'a
'None fairer or better,' added Dale, earned
ly. You.cannot appreciateher until youk4w
her. 'Sheis too precious a treasurefto be ez'
posed to- te bloodthirsty cruelty of ,the fed
denizons of these wilds.  I am proud of her,
I tminwillirig to own. And why am I proud f
her, Seward ?'--.it is not because she isifair and(
comely to look upon, but because she isgod,'
isa just and praiseworthy. pride' I ;de-
joines , 'and does honor to your head 'and heat.
Fortunate is the young man who ~has a sister
like her you have so eloquently praised.. I
knwe#I hall'dream to-nightf of Flora Dale.
'Sweet =be your dreams then,' said Arthur,
with a pleasant smile.
aviag-digressed thus far by way of intro-
du    . remarks, I shall begin'Where I left off at
tie " le of 'the frst chapter.
.  hen the body;of the wretched Indian had
be   swept from sight bythe owing waters, w
r~ssed the Fork. We foundArthur still
sleeping.  Wrapping myselffin my war blanket,
soon in a profound slumber.
[n the dim visions Qf sleep I stood face to
f     th the brawny savage; the munie of  s
e     ce more covered my heartr; bis ominous
oneione more ;tornyears; and then he
l   _    if  $5 all his. members, and the deadly,
.  S '"  F  ae,  "'      *_        ;
Hy night-visions came ; anmong
of one Ihad never seon;and
seeiiwa  40 others han :Flera)Da
aJ 1    di e o la       e-I knew  ot, but it
w s spreanth xand{ the viionlegrp
bieis#*ttidsrftil I was sorry
with it

SBut why shozkl thefaeo and fgr   ,of -onerI
bad mover looked upoxa come and stand before
mean4 give meAsogmuch pleasure.
The vision passed, and I was sad, and endeav
ored to recall it;p but it came not. Other phanr!.
asies followed, and when I awoke I 'was purse-
g Black Ralph-4aW most forbidding creature,
with=an-aspenesinister, and darker than the chil-''
hin of Ind. .
Gilmore was sitting' besideme' smoking his
pipe, while Arthur wasbusily-employed in wash'
ghis'rifle and wiping it dry.
'A. very fine piece of workmanship is that,'
said the'former, rather contemptuously, ' but it
has't seen much sarviee, I reckon. I wouldn't
give'old Two S/tooter for it arter all's said anal
done, nothwithstandin' the silver fixins on the-
stock, and all such kind of fancy work.'
would here 'remark that. "Two Shooter' was.
the trapper's double-barrelled rifle, and, in his'
estimnation,-the best in the whole world.
Perhaps I shall have an opportunity to prove
yet,' said Arthur, good humoredly, whos hap-
pened, to hear what was not intended for his
'It wouldn't be -strange if you should, re
torted Gilnore, drily. 'A man dont expect to
a great 'while among the Ingin varmntsi
putsome brushes w    em, accordin' to my
lition, andIve seen some forty4f ve winters im
the course of my nateral life.'
'I don't think you'll find, me craven-hearted
in the hour of danger,' replied Dale, still unruf-
fled' by the trapper's sarcasm.
' t's rather hard -tellin' what a youngster'll
dQ when hehears the red-critters yelling' like
mad,' repliedGilmore.   'I knowed, ,achap
onea as was about yeorsize that thought it
popkbbe oncommou#pleas nt workto fight the
varnts; but the fust howl the critters set q6
g"n     dhiiarawl uder a-baggage wagon
Pe ~apI hall, 'eturne   Daledarghing
'What do you tin hIt
age1, beingdesireus t                    h
conversation.

T  E4'R       a'!''   ND.                            7
It's my opinion that they'd better stayed at  I did not think it expedient to continue a
St. Louis, where they were safe and sound, an( conversation evidently so painful to the trapper,
had enough to eat, drink, and to wear, instead and he smoked out his pipe in silence.
of undertaking' to penetrate into ,an unknown  After our stomachs were suitably{cared for,
country, to encounter unknown dangers and we mounted our horses and continued our jour-
hardships. That, I reckon, is putty near what ney upon the river.
I think about the matter. I know the 'nateral  ' We're gettin' pretty well toward the source
silo is good, and game is plenty, but 'taint no of the Red Fork,' said Gilmore. ' We've, left
place for females. It's different with men; Fort Mann in our rear, and Bent's Fort is away
they can fight, and endure hardship, but women off in that direction. I reckon if there's any
as were reared in idleness and "luxury, can't settlement on the Red Fork, we shall find it be.
scarcely bear the ieat of the' sun, and are ready fore a great while, for the Upper Spring can't
to faint at the sound of a' hunter's rifle;' an- be more nor a 'half day's travel from here.
swered Gilmore, puffing industriously at his Rather a dangerous country this, for a small
pipe between each period.                  party of emigrants to settle in. The Cherokees
:But do you seriously think that anything and other tribes are often' met with hereabouts,
unfortunate has befallen my friends ?' asked and they ain't over and above peaceable in their
Dale, eagerly.                             habits. They ain't to'be trusted under no car-
'The Ingins may have killed 'em, or they cutmnstances whatsoever. A red-skintwill be a
may not, accordin' to carcumstances,' added the red-skin, and you can't change him if you try
trapper.  'They may have concluded to go far- ever so hard.'
other up than they intended in the onset; or the ' Be kind enough to tell me something- more
criters may have driven 'em away; it's bard about Black Ralph,' I ,asked, as we picked our
tellin', but we must hope for the best.'   way along over the rough and broken country.
'Perhaps you never had a daughter?' said Dale.  'Sartain, if it will be any measure to 'y'.y
Perhaps not; and perhaps she wasn't car. but I wasn't never good at story-telling. I re-
ied away by the varmints when she was five member  a little incident that happened about a
years old; and perhaps I've never seen her Iear ago.
since; and perhaps I didn't mourn for her, and  I was trapping on a small ty  tary of the
travel all over the wide West to find her;- I say Yellow Stone, and had beenpetty successful.
perhaps'                                   I had' with me a half-breed critter that had
The old trapper paused, looked serious, and made himself useful on many occasions. =Ihired
then resumed:                              him by the 'month, and be had no.other "interest
'Perhaps I didn't love that girl; and perhaps in the business. Well, he used to help we set
it; didn't almostbreak myheart to loseheryin th traps, and sometimes used to go  i
such a way.t                               lookMt~.em alone.' At-length he
Gilmore paused again   *his pipe from hi                        onsteidy' and would be gone a day41
:nouth, and wiped hi       the back of hi tine, add couldn't give no satisfactry
hand.                                      liimsif. This I didn't like very we=1
'I never heard                     ct be didn't give me  no greataoneasines bee a if
fore,' t remarked.                        "didn't mistrust no treachery.  One artetoon,*
w it     eak on't,' he ree as long towards night, wie ere ettin' tythh        4oo r
ho                    tomyhe'll of our sanp wmokin' ,s                iuSthehabit f
be                 wek  i  she's  alive-but  doin'.  'All  to cd ee d agairi n    e
a  hardthing. fori a Gundred yards from its ihos  ad~dereent
kee itnu   f nil all  a1loein" yy; but suchia hie ta  en nd~  t~iz


18

BLACK RALPH

a common boss-that it wasn't, by no means.
It was about twice the size of common anermals
of that kind, and black as jet. This tremen-
dous critter abot past us like an arrer, with his
ears laid back, and his nose thrust for'ard like a
reg'lar pinter.  When I assart that it war an
ugly lookin' beast, I dont express half that 1
raly mean. . But one thing you musn't forget ;
the critters feet didn't make no noise, 'and he
passed clean by without any sound.  That was
oncommon ; for the feet of sich a mighty aner-
mad ought to make considerable clatterin', if not
more.
Now I'm a coming' to the toughest part o' the
story-the half human varmint that rode him.
He was near about as large for a man as thehoss
was-for a boss. ,His dress I couldn't very well
describe, for he went by, as I was sayin', as if
the old Niek had kicked him in eend, and I
ain't' by no means surd but he had. He might
have been dressed in bar skins, for that matter
for he was black and shaggy as a nateral wild
beast.  Away they swept, hoss and rider, and]
didn't see 'em no more, and didn't wish to.. Bu
idn't that half creed Ingin indervidooal' tur
'fie about the gills, though?  I expected t
see h6 sink into the nateral bosom of the sile.
'It' ~tack Ralph !' said he, and went righ
into the eap, and didn't show his head agi
'till the next; , and I couldn't git a word ;ou
o' him.
The fact is, thlt when an Ingin sees Blac
Ralph,-he thinks itkwarnin' to him that death

I went dereetly to the spot where I kept 'em
concealed. The cache was-tore open,:and not a
single skin was to be found.  I must confess
that my onregenerate natur begun to rile up,
and I vowed to roller the critter 'till I could-
bring old Two Shooter to bear upon him.
I'm used to follerin' a trail, and it warn't long
afore I was arter him.
Well, what do, you think ?  I hadn't gone
three hundred yards afore I found the varmint,
flat on his back, and the peltries layin', beside
him. I examined him, and found a sinall hole
in the left breast. He was wounded in the heart,
and it was the handy-work of BlackRalph. I
took up my peltries, and left him there, as I
had found him, wonderin' how strangely people
would die.sometimes when death seemed a long
way off,
CHAPTER         III.
PRAIRIE WOLF.
ILMORE had scarcely ceased speaking,
I       when a large buffalo made his appear-
ance, about two hundred yards before us.
n The trapper motioned us to stop, and we rein-
o ed up instantly.
His horse understanding what was recfuired
t of him, stood motionless, while 'Two Shooter'
n was levelled upon the shaggy front of the un-
t tamed forest rover. The whip-like crack went
echoing through the woods, and the buffalo, with
k a faint bellow of pain, fell down where he had
h stood.

ain't a great way:off, and will soon be upon him.  'A capital shot r
Ten to one if he dent set right down and sing ' I dent call that
isdeath song, and git ready for the happy hunt- rather contemptuousl,
°  grounds. The half breed went mopin' about four hundred yards m
sR;  day, hardly stirrin' from camp. The follow- cent kind of 4
y~'day,however, he began to' drink whiskey ; like that at t
for, usually-kept soe o' the stuff by me in br
tase o' sickness, though the half-breed seldom           so )Ou
got any of it.I left him in better spirits than
usual,=and went to.oekgarter my traps. When uobjen
la  tihe Frepoh  gin indervidooal warn't in'.  ends out a
.:    Q       o found. The idee seemed to be withstood or remi
4tk  u     yr forcibly that it wouldn't be fail. For the last
py go and lookc at my pile of"peltries. t have missed my m

THE FORE
opened to be an Tngin indervidooal, or any kind
of a quadruped whatsomever. A great many
of, the' copper-colored varmints call me the
' Death Slot,' and allers think it prudent to
keep a civil tongue in their heads,:or to keep
out of the way when I'm known to be about.
They know what to depend on when they par
ceive Two Shooter a coming' to my shoulder, and
nothin' wont set 'em a howlin' quicker.'
'I am  tempted to, call you Never-fail after
this,' retorted Dale, smiling.          .
'It wouldn't be so bad a name as you might
think,' replied the trapper; but my native mod-
esty wont permit me to trumpet my own fame.
The time may come when I can prove my good
qualities by my works, and not be obliged to
speak on 'em as I have in this instance.'
The buffalo was soon dressed,'and we regaled
ourselves upon the flesh; it was the first we
had found during our journey up the river, and
we did not eat sparingly. Those familiar with
Western life know that the hump of a buffalo
s a delicious morsel, highly esteemed by the
hunter and trapper.
While we were roasting it, the delicious odor
attracted several smaltk wolves, resembling the
prairie wolf, who locked at us most wistfully,
occasionally entertaining us with a mournful
howl.
'It's gettin' so near night,' said Gilmore, 'I
reckon we'd better content ourselves to stay
where we are 'till morning . There's nothin'
gained by bein' in a great hurry.'
This proposal was very agreeable to ie, but
to Arthur Dale'it was anything but welcome ;
he being desirous to move forward as fast as pos
sible, in order to learn something in relation to
his friends, on whose account he was hourly
growing more uneasy.
We heaped up the logs, and when the night
set in a cheerful blaze streamed up,"and gave
an air of -rude comfort to our lonely camping
ground. As we sat by the fire, listening to the
tales of Gilmore, we were startled by the sud-
den appearance of a stranger. -
He proecito. e 'a  herokee, whom we had
met at Fort Gibson. lie was called Prairie

ST FIEND.

19

Wolf, and among his people was a person of
some consequence,
He and others had been sent to Fort Gibson
by his tribe, in order to make some reparation,
if possible, for sundry outrages they- had com-
mitted at divers times, for which they had good
- cause to suppose they should be punished by
the whites. How well he had sped on his mis-
sion, I knew not ; but it was evident that 'his
reception had not been just what he had hoped.
He hobbled and turned his horse loose, and
seated himself by our fire, with all. the assur-
anee characteristic of the race. Gilmore re-
ceived him in true Indian style-scarcely no-
I ticed him-said not a word.
Prairie Wolf helped himself to a liberal slice
of buffalo meat, roasted it over the blazing fire,
I and truth forces me to say he did ample justice
to his name.
When this interesting piece of business had
been dispatched, Gilmore lighted his pipe, puff-
ed a few mouthfulls of the fragrant weed, and
passed it to his guest, who followed his example
with Indian gravity, and then, in turn, passed
it to me ; and so it went around.
We felt not a little curious to know why he
had followed us; whether he had come alone,.
l or if more of his tribe were near. We weirnot
kept long in. doubt. Some of his fried s had
been slain by the mysterious being cale&amp; Black
Ralph. They were found at various times, a
short distance from their lodges, with a single
wound in the left breast. In some instances
others had been near them at the time of their
death; but no sound was heard to indicate that
- a death wound had been dealt. The victims
were seen to leap upward, and then fall lifeless
upon the earth.
Upon looking hurriedly round fox: the per.
petrator of the 'deed, no living being could be
discovered. They would holein th
region of the heart, and'Xay-  djspas, and
with dismay upon their _fue    s tlork
of Black Ralph, the bad  fquito of ti:. f  .
These deaths had been s#be
bravest of the braves grew indl RZeltQm te-
jected, and took council together in~i org. t44


TILE FOREST FIEND.                   21

20                   BL CK RALPH

vise some means of avenging the death of their
warriors.
Butall were at a loss.  Their enemy was.
unseen and unknown. Many of them believed
him to be of no mortal origin. All they knew
of him was from hearsay, as those who averred
they had seen him never lived long afterward
to describe his appearance.
At last, a few of the most resolute of the
tribe had volunteered to go in quest of the mys-
terious being so terrible to their race.,
Prairie Wolf was-of the number who had de-
voted themselves to this task. A feast was,
made, the war dance danced, and then the
avengers bade adieu to their friends, took their
muskets; mounted their steeds, andleft the lodg-
es of their people.
Gilmore:heard this relation in silence, and
shook his head gravely when it was .concluded.
'Do-you expect to find. Black Ralph,' he
asked, signi lcantly.
'Prairie Wolf is called brave in wa, he an-
swered. 'He never turns his back upon the
enemy.   He never returns to his village with-
out the scalps of his enemies to hang up at the
door of his lodge.'
'You may be.a great warrior, but I reckon,
as how Black Ralph will live longer nor you.
Thesame sun as ;will shine upon your dead
face, will shine upon that unaccountable Critter
a livin' man.'
A;slight change passed over the features of
the savage, Perhaps to him there was some-
thing prophetic in the words of the trapper.
'It.strikes me, red-skin, that you want see
the smoke of four wigwam no more. "Sunthin'
seem;sto tell:me that the silent steps o' death
are arterye.  It's my impression the sun wont
andre a  yethree times afore there'll be a hole
ie our left breast, jest over the heart.'
PrairieWolf made no reply.
It's a proper easytway of gettin' out o' the
world,' added Gilmore.  'It's my belief that
theatter as.goes under in that say never
kw  what hrt him-'
Teiel tof prairie Wolf is verybig,' said
@th Idian, gravely,.

'Not big enough for him you're arter,' re-
plied the trapper.  ' You'd better pass the
night in singin' your death song, or you may,
be obleeged to go to the celerbrated huntin'-
grounds without it.'
Wishing Prairie Wolf pleasant dreams, we
stretched ourselves out by the fire, and were
soon oblivious in sleep.
If I d-eaied that night, by some strange in-,
ensisteney I dreamed of Flora Dale, so .much
had the glowing words of Arthur impressed me
in her favor.
We arose with the sun, and pressed forward,
momentarily expecting to find the new settle.
ment. As we progressed, we found the way
more difficult. The river, as we neared -its
source, grew narrower, and we were sometimes
obliged te deviate from our course, making wide
circuits around high bills, which seemed to rise
in our pathway continually.
On account of these obstacles, we did not
travel very fast, and were forced to halt before
night ; for both ourselves and beasts were
weary.
We encamped on a tributary of the Red
Fork, where we found{excellent pasturage for
the horses. They fell to cropping the soft grass
with an earnestness that betokened they had
lost nothing of their appetite by hard travelling.
As soon as a fire was kindled, I stretched-
myself beside it, and slept. I awoke in about
an hour, and found my friends busily engaged
preparing supper, which in the wilderness is a
simple process.
The sun went down, and the moon came up.
My friends ate in silence, and then sought
repose after the day's fatigues.  But I did not
-feel inclined to slumber.  The beauty of the
night invited me forth to silent communion with
nature.
Taking my rifle, I followed the devious wind-
ings of the stream.  I~s sloping banks were cov-
ered with tender verda'e, and its waters had a
musical urmur which wooed me on.
Sometimes it wound though an open wood
land ; sometimes through p thcets ofurze ; and
sometimes through delightful mneadows.

'The emigrants should have settled upon this
tributary stream.!' I exclaimed, ' and not upon
the Red Fork. Here is an excellent soil, rich
meadow lands and uplands, to tempt the tillers
of the earth.'
I had scarcely expressed myself in this man-
ner., before Iwas sure, that I heard the barking
of a dog.
For the first time during my solitary walk, I
thought of the adventures of the previous night.
I paused, and felt that I'had been imprudent in
wandering so far from my companions.
The barking continued, and appeared at no
great distance. At first I was undecided what
to do, whether to go forward, remain perfectly
still, or beat a cautious retreat.  I might be in
the vicinage of an Indian village or encampment,
and consequently in a.position of great danger.
But this feeling of indecision passed in a mo-
ment; I resolved to go forward. I waited un-
til the dog had ceased barking, an' then
atiously went forward in the direction whence
the so~und had proceeded.
Before I had advanced ten minutes in this
manner,   reached a small clearing, and beheld,
to my great amazement, some half a dozen cab-
ins built of logs. Through the chinks of some}
of tbese primitive dwellings, a cheerfl-l light
was reflected, while the smoke went curling up
fantastically from the roofs.
I was about to go forward to learn what kind
of a settlement I had found, when a new object
of interest diverted me from my purpose.
It was a female figure that had suddenly
passed before my vision, and riveted my atten-
tion. r She stood upon the bank of the stream
whose graceful windings I had been following
for the last three quarters of an hour.
fleF attitude was one of perfect ease and re-
pose-gone which lends such unriralled grace to
a symmetrical figure. The moonbeams revealed
enough of her person and features to assure me,
that she was young and exquisitely fair. When
the memory of earthly. things fades away, the.
emotions of that moment will be the last -to lin-
ger. I felt mslthwihng worshipper of a
being s. divinely moulded.

'lora Dale!' I said, when I was sufficient-
ly calm to do so, aking a step forward.:,
The whole attitude of the maiden changed,
and she was in the act of flying from me, when
I added :
'I bring tidings from your brother.'
She turned toward me with surprise depicted
upon every feature.
' Be not 'alarmed,' I continued, 'I am the
bearer of good news. Your brother is well, and
not an b u 's walk from us.'
'You are a stranger,' she replied, timidly,
' but if you bring news from Arthur, you will
certainly receive the welcome of a friend.'
'Had I not met your brother, I should nit
have known that I now stand in the presence of
Flora Dale.'
The maiden blushed deeply.
' And d6 you recognize me only fron the pid-
ture he has drawn of me ?' she asked.
'Believe me, Miss Dale, I never gazed upon
your face before ; but I knew well It could 'ie
none other than Flora Dale ; for Arthur has
often described you with the eloquence of a lo'r-
'He's a partial brother,' replied Flora, with a
smile, 'and I must reprove him for his exaggera-
ted notions of my merits. But I have  nearly
forgotten to extend to you the hospitality of our
rude home. Let us hasten to impart the good
news to my father and brother.'
'Seek not to detain me, Mifs Dale' Te
most acceptable service I can render, will be to
return and relieve the anxiety of Arthur in e..
gard to your safety.'
' It is not strange that he should fave isiv-
ings in relation to us. It is a rough and" dahi-
gerous country we have traversed, andiwe do
not by any means -dwell in security; There is
not an hour in the day when we can go forthin
perfect safety.  The red men are continuafy
hovering about us, ready to, pillage and to slay.
Several of our numbers have already'felt ;heir
power, and their faces will be seen. no mWre
among us. The hills, and woods, and streanie,
are pleasant to look upon, hut we cannot pos-
sess them in safety.'


22                   BLACK RALPH

THE FOREST FIEND.               28

I feared as much,' I replied. ' You are too
near the Cherokees.'
'Much toe near,' returned Flora.   They
say the country is all theirs, and we have no
right to make settlements upon it.  The eon-
sequeces are what I have said-a continued
fear o pillage and bloodshed, and in fact, of ut-
ter extermination.'
'ourfaer must forego his purpose of be-
co          kwoodsman, and return to the hab-
tatio s '+Qf ejilized men.
at he says he will not do, while he has a
weapon to wear, and an arm to wield it. Many
are the sanguinary encounters he has had with
the Indiana, Nothing daunts him, and he re-
gards the whole red race with the deepest ha-
tred.'
'Icannot say that I differ from him in that
respect.  I never could breathe freely where
there was;an Indian. For the life of me I can-
not help feeling that a savage is lawful game ;
as much so as the wild wolf, the bear, or the
buffalo. It is no credit to the dictates of my
hears, when I say that I never behold a red mat
without the desire to shoot him down as I would
some hurtful beast.  When I confess that I
hate them, I do not express a tithe of the bitter
enmity I feel for that race of painted fiends
called Indians.'
I observed that Flora gazed intently into my
face as Ispoke, and instinctively shrank from
me as she beheld its changed and fierce expres-
lion.
Such a feeling is dreadful,!' she exclaimed
You are but too much like my father.    Oh
why should man burn with such,.bitter hatred
towards his fellow man.'.
Pardon me,' I said, with sonie asperity, 'I
do   t call Indians my fellow men.  They are
demons in human forms, knowing neither rier-
ty, magnanimity, or one of the softer and better
mpulses that sway the bosom of a white mari
I have not spared them, neither shall I wheni
dthey cross my path.'

Again Flora shrank from me, and shuddered
at the expression which my previously tranquil
features had assumed.
'But,' I immediately added, with a smile,
'I must away to Arthur to be the bearer of wel-
come news.' Bowing respectfully, I turned
and hurried away, with my heart full of Flora
Dale.
I had walked over that same ground a few
minutes before, with only a few indistinct and
half remembered dreams of her; but now I saw
nothing save her bright image.
It is time that the reader should know that
I am, and ever was, a creature of impulse.
My great fault is, and has been, that I go to
extremes in all things, and know no middle
course. My dislikes are not simply dislikes,
but absolute hatreds.  My resentments are not
merely resentments, but perfect madness. My
passions have never been conquered by. whole-
some self-restraint.  I have from  childhood
known no master but myself, and only thetvo .
extremes of .love and hatred. There are tips
when I regret this peculiarity most deeply ; but
I cannot conquer it-it was the fault ofmy youth
and must be the fault of my manhood.
The reader will not be much surprised after
this confession, that I left Flora as deeply in love
as it was possible for a man to be at first sight.
She was the same I had seen in my dreams ;
and it was by my dreams that I knew her, and
not by Arthur's description, as I had said.
Yes, I loved' Flora Dale--loved her as I
believed no other living man could love. Every-
feature of her face; every intonation of her
voice ; every look ; every gesture ; all her di-
vine symmetry of form, was indelibly impressed
upon my soul: never to fade, never to grow less
distinct ; never to become less divine and glori,
ous. I was an idolator-I worshipped--I a-
dored, and asked for no fairer or better divinity.
You may call this madness; you may call it
wronging my Maker ; but Icould not help it;
it was so, and  as it was, so I relate it, with-
out shame or prevarication.

C II A P T E R     I V.           hatchet was glancing about my head in all diree
THE RIDE OF DEATH.            tions.
.   S I walked on I heeded not whither I    f I pressed suddenly upon him with the in-
went. Unconsciously I wandered from tention of crushing his skull at a blow, he as
the stream until its murmurs were heard suddenly jumped aside or retreated, and I beat
no more. The true guide to my friends was the air only.   -
lost; but I knew it not. - I kept on, with my  Thus the contest lasted for three quarters of
thoughts still clustering about the image of an hour, probably, and I had gained nothing.
Flora Dale.                               The blood was flowing freely from my side,
I traversed many acres of tangled wild-wood; while my face was bathed with prespiration, and
of upland and lowland, until I was completely my lips were covered with foam, like the mouth
bewildered amid a labarynth of hills. , I rubbed of an over-ridden horse.
my eyes like a person awaking from a dream,  I perceived with joy that the savage was grow-
and looking at the moon, perceived that I had ing weary of his motions, and began to breathe
travelled an hour longer than would have suf- bard, and give other indications of exhaustion.
ficed to take me to my friends.           While exulting in this thought, his hatchet fell
I listened to catch the sounds of the stream upon the three last fingers of the left band, and
which I had wandered from, but its murmur nearly severed them.
was lost in the distance. I changed my course, The pain of this infliction I did notheed, and
and went forward,,reproaching myself for my indeed did not feel it; but it inflamed me to
carelessness, and impatient of the delay thus the highest possible pitch of fury. I gnashed
occasioned.                               my teeth with rage, and with a terrific cry and
As I urged my way through a thicket of low a sudden bound closed in with him despite his
pines, I came suddenly into an open space weapon, and all his activity.
where a small fire was blazing. The sound of  He- was a strong powerful Indian, and it cost
my coming awakened one who slept beside it, me a fierce and bloody struggle to conquer him.
It was an Indian. He sprang to his feet, pre. At length I lifted him from the ground in my
sented his gun and fired before I had become arms, and fell upon him with my whole weight.
fully conscious of my position. When he dis-  The fall knocked the breath from his body
charged his piece I felt a sharp pain in my left and for a time he lay whplly stunned and sense-
side, and recoiled a step, but recovered my less. I placed my knees upon his broad chest,
presence of mind immediately,             and with my knife cut my deer skin hunting
Perceiving that I did not fall, he rushed upon frock into strips. With these I bound his wrists
me with uplifted hatchet to finish his bloody firmly together, and then his feet; and those
work.               .                     thongs were not drawn lightly, for they raised
All the dark passions of my soul arose within the veins like whip cords in a moment
me on the instant, and nerved my arm with a  This done I arose from his chest, and respira-
giant's strength.                         tion began to go on once more with difficulty,
With ,my rifle I 'warded off the blow, and and slowly.
aimed another at his head, but with cat-like  I paused to consider the best mode of von-
agility he leaped aside and baffled me.   geance. At a short distance I beheld the In-
I now pressed upon him, dealing him blow dian's horse. -A horrible idea flashed in upon
after blow, which he as often evaded, until I my hot and excited brain.
wras 'half fasntio with a-
wa hlffrntc  it rge.                   I had read the poem of Mazeppa and his fear--
buring this time the savage was uttering the ful ride, and [ resolved with dfemoni~ exulta-
most frightful ,yells to intimidate me, and his tion that my conquered foe should sharebIdafto.

23


24

BLACK RALPH

I acted upon the idea as suddenly as it had  Do not despise me, reader ; because I have
been nceived. tIna moment the horse stood told you of such a deed. If I go to extremes in
readyirmyv purpose, and a large and smooth  cruelty, remember that my soul may also be easily
limbed beast he was. I raised the wretched swayed, to acts of mercy.  He who is more cruel
savage, and with scarcely an effort placed him  than the graven moments of anger,may be gentle
uponthe back of the animal ; then with the as the lamb in moments of calmness and kindness.
thongs I had cut, I lashed him there with hell-  Judge me not then, 'fellow mortal, till you
ish ingeniousness. That task completed not a know me better.  If I confess to you my evil
limb could move, and there was not a remote deeds, I will not scruple to relate also the re-
possibility that he could by any means freehim. deemingacts of my life. Were I like most oth-
self from his horrible position.            er men, I should have nothing to write, and
Gradually the consciousness of the savage re- these chapters would not be before you.
turned, and in mute despair he abandoned him-  When the horse and themiserable victim of
self to his fate.                          m rage which he bore, had swept from my
My work was not yet done. I saw a stick my r I endeavored to retrace my way to il-
of pitch pine blazing upon the fire. With the vie  ndArIe t     rwas more fortunate
Indian's hatchet I split it into small pieces, and than I expected o be. A walk of three qua-
fastena.cl 4tbea upon the horse's' mane, tail and ter of an hour to be  to the stream I had
sides 1     skill worthy of a better cause. Nor. ter  f  an  the to      of stsewatersa
didmy prrblecrult  stp hre.,1  huderwandered from, and the murmur of its waters
did mnyhprrible cruelty stop here. . I shdd  sounded plaanl     n my cars.. In a short
while I' tell, m  heart sickens when I recall it.sone  pleasantly imy er.    I      hr
wyn                             fiama time Ireached the camping ground of my friends,
thrut sundry splinters of the highly  fama-the herald of good news to Arthur.
ble materialtinto the flesh of the hopeless savage.
My next care was to set them all on fire, as  Awaking him from a sound sleep, I related
and that was all that had transpired connected with my meet-
the reader. has already anticipated ;adtaa  ngwt     lr.-                     ,
right speedily accomplished.                                         should recoise her
WitW    , a terrific snort, and with an eye as fiery   'very, singular that you shouldrcgniee
aith a teficorod ithe horse dashed mad- from such a meagre description as I gave you.'
lyawa  bearing his death doomed burden. dAs   'Not at all,' I replied.  'You described her
he was borne from me like the wind, one cry of as the loveliest of girls, and as the lovliest of
bitter hate, defiance and despair, was wafted to girls=I recognised her.'
my ears fromthe track of his flight. Iran shout-  Arthur smiled.  n
ing to the top of the nearest eminence to see  'Did yo tarry long?' t  ie     i  e
him  o famin upn hs corse an  thepith-  I did not see her more than fifteen minutes,
himogo fb ained uponvely d  marked  the  wayp of not wishing  to cheat you out of the  good  tidings
the Idian's last ride, with a red stream of fire. a moment longer than t necessary.'
I watched the meteor-like blaze, as it sped on'   y
d like lightning; and yelled till I was hoarse; but and now the night   y far  ned.'
in a moment or two the darkness closed in upon  dI know it, I lost my way on my return,' I
the track of the maddened horse and wretched answered
-rider.                                       As I replied, . I heaped more fuel upon the
id            no relenting   did not       fire, and a bright blaze streamed up, revealing
heart shrink within you at that sight?  y     y features and person.
heart  h nrekaweth   yo fet  notha m  s h k- A rthur  started  with  an  exclam ation  of  alarm .
Nsorthleninoder, I felt norelmorse, noshr   'Good Heavens, Seward  hat is the matter?
ands nthenaGkos thoe ken I fltrthem, Your face is haggard and fightful, and your
and cursed my perverted nature.             person is covered wit -lo.

THE FOREST FIEND.                25

' I have had an encounter with a red devil,'
I replied.
'Your features are dreadfully pale and savage
in their expression. One might believe that
all the dark passions of our nature were strug-
gling for utterance. My dear Seward strive to
look more like a christian man.'
I attempted to laugh at his astonishment, but
it sounded unnatural even to myself.
You are wounded ; sit down and let me ex-
amine your injuries. - I have some skill in sur-
gery,' added Arthur.
I obeyed him mechanically, and he dressed
my hand first.
'There is a slight scratch upon my side,
I believe,' I said when that part of his ta#k was
done.
lie now noticed for the first time that my
hunting shirt was gone.
'You have had a narrow escape,' he con-
tinued. 'See ! the shot has carried away a por-
tion of your vest, and passed close to the ribs,
but fortunately there is nothing serious about the
wound. Tell me all concerning the adven-
ture.'
No, Arthur, I cannot now. I beg you will
excuse me.   The subject is painful.  The
fact is I have been angry, mad, if you will; it
may be that I have been cruel, more cruel than
death itself. 1 begin to be myself again. 'Do
not question me. There are things that had
better be forgotten, than remembered, or if not
known, had better remain hidden forever.'
'I have been blind,'returned Arthur. 'I have
seen hitherto only half of your character-per-
haps the better half.  Your features when at
rest, give no indication of your darker moods.
I have beheld only the lamb, while the lion has
dept.'
True, Arthur,' I answered, you are right.
You have not seen my whole nature convulsed
with passion, and I devoutly hope you never
may.,, But the storm passes quickly away, and
leaves me as I feel that it will now, penitent,I
ieniorseful, and dejected. But do not condemn
me; suspend your judgment until you know me
still better, [ ask ino inore.'

'I judge you not-I condemn you not-for
what have I seen or known to condemn. Your
face a moment ago told me that something fright-
ful had transpired,:more than that I do not com-
prehend, and at present I will not question you ;
but I warn you, Seward, and hope it will prove
a timely warning, that if you would be happy
in life, govern these terrible outbursts of passion
that they may not lead to acts of savage cruel-
ty.
During this conversation, Gilmore and Prairie
Wolf, lay sleeping by the fire.' The latter for
some reason unknown, had not left us for an
hour since the moment of his first. appearance.
His deportment had been very grave, as'though
his mind was deeply occupied with important
subjects.  Of the mysterious personage known
as Black Ralph, he had said not  '     the
night of his advent among us.
We awoke Gilmore, and we             ted
and on our way,' accompanied h         .ad,
venturer, towards whom my , fee  .°d not
been very friendly, as the reader may suppose.
We reached the new. settlement after a-short
and silent ride, and I had the pleasure of gazing
once more upon the fair face of; Flora Dale.
The fierce excitement had passed away from
myl countenance, and given place to an expres-
sion of moody sadness. I- Eaw Flora'turn pale
while Arthur recounted what he knew in rela-
tion to my recontre with the savage.
'What would be the feelings of thatyoung
girl towards me, if she knew what a demon slept
within me ?' I asked of myself, with a heart
full of misgiving. How would she ,regard me
if the deeds.of this night only were hon.
I turned from her with a sigh of regret. I felt
that I had forfeited all claims to the ove of wo,
man.
Had the wanton barbarity of this night been
the only deed of wickedness I had commit
there might be a hope of pardon and amend'
rent, t,  added, 'but alas,  whole life has
been blotted with acta    isee.
Thrmore I azed updx he featufes of Flra;
the more I' listened to' her voide fthe nrt I
studis~d the graces of herini; thme norfdel


26                                BLACK RALPH
within the pleasant light of her eyes, the more Flora. I feared she might read my thoughts,
deeply I became enamored. 4 Happy Arthur,'I behold in me the monster that I really was, and
thought, 'to be loved by such a being.'    despise me as I deserved to be despised. I
About ten o'clock the following day while I thought to myself while I stood alone there that
was visiting the different cabins composing the I would wander away into the, wilderness and
new settlement, I beheld Prairie Wolf sitting hide myself forever. Who would miss me, who*
upon a"log at a short distance,. howling most would care if I should. My friends, what few
dolefully.                                 I had, dwelt in another country. My mother
'Tey. -itra          Blck   ah' said slept with the sleepers that wake not.    My
The critter has seen Back   aph,   sal   ahrIhdneePenh              addsre       e
Gilmore, who joined me at that moment, 'and      I had never seen; he had deserted me
he's singin' his death song. He's bound for the when a child-a helpless child, with no one to
hunting' grounds of his people.'            care for me-to 'rejoice if 1 lived, or to lament
*Has he really seen him I' I asked, eagerly, if I died. Grown to manhood full of evil pas-
for my curiosity was getting strangely excited sions, with no one to love me, no wonder I
in relation to this unknown and dreaded being. deemed the wilderness a fitting home.
tIt's my belief that that Ingin individooal  I stretched forth my arms to the woods: 'My
has         k'Ralph as much as any critter home shall be beneath the shade of your trees r'
+eve          ing, replied, Gilmore.  'He I exclaimed.   'The game that runs wild there
eo             n' better than sing his death shall be my food.  I shall not want.'
son             e a hole in his left breast afore  I paused and looked upon the earth  You
the wo       ree days older. Mark what I shall receive my ashes when I die  Wide shall
say and don't forget it.'                  be my grave, hollowed by no human hand.'
=It cannot be possible.  You are supersti-  I stretched my hand to the skies, and turned
Gilor.  anot fr he life of mbe
tjousGilmore. I cannot, for  ie  o me, e- my eyes thither: 'You shall receive my erring
lieve much in this evil genius of the red men. soul when I assume a new form of existence,
No, no, old friend ; people cannot fall down and I will find rest among your stars '
and die without a cause rAs I finished speaking I beheld a fgure stand-
Of course not, and I dont say they can..  Ain    shed speig   It ha fiure stand-
say there is acause of their fallin' down in sieh ing at the foot of the hill. It was Prairie Wolf.
a- suddene 'w acandutecitrHe stood in a thoughtful attitude ; his left hand
a sudden ,way, and the critter I have mentioned la  pno hebridle e  f hishore'wie n
is that cause, and nothin' else under the canerpy la  po dre
'~                       the right he held his nife-.
of, the Heavens as shines over our heads., I ie
told you that that onhappy varmint sittin' on  He was gazing intently at the gloriousWest,
thatkgthereWill be  but a  eaas if wondering whether the happy hunting
grounds were there.
asheafore the airth has been lighted by three
more sus. I don't retract. I am willin' to re-  Though a savage, and the victim of my dis-
peat it any number of times.               like, I fancied I could observe something like
I smiled incredulously, and passed on.   humanity struggling up into his swarthy face as
if to tell of a soul within. Yes, even through
LA      _ T E     V.the dark cloid of prejudice that covered my
IsightI.saw as much as this, andecould'nothelp
THE DEATHDANcE.              confessg it.
BOUT     gfouroadloek of the san e day I airie Wolfturned him from the West to
stod extjhe sunnit of a shill in the vi- the soth, and lifting his left hiana from the
oist- f the :settlement. -I had gone bridle, pointed witli his finger. I apgroached
ghtbhe, aloe, for, my heart ws him softly that I might hea h1 wods.' le
~torn wth remorse, and I felt unfit to be near spoke in the Chrkelangua .

7

THE ! FOREST FIEND.

2.

'They say that yonder is the path that leads in the left breast; some deadly thing had enter.
to the land of souls; but the West looks more ed his heart.
glorious when the sun is there, and methinks it  The horse bent his head over the body of his
might be easy to find the way. The soul master, snuffed the air, and uttered low, mour 1
must be a shadow, and the happy hunting ful neighs, as of grief. I was, touched in spite
grounds must be a world. of shadows. They of myself. 'This poor Indian has made his
say there are trees and flowers there; and those horse his friend,' I said  musingly.  'Poor
are shadows also. They sayathere are broad wretch ! you desired a horse to ride-I will send
rivers, and bright canoes to flat upon them, your faithful steed after yo .'
and they are alike shadows. They say there    I drew a pistol from my belt, and was about
are beautiful -singing birds there, and they are to shoot the animal through the head, when I
shadows like the rest.                      heard the voice of Gilmore, saying:
They say the men there are brave, and the  'Hold ! the horse is a good one, and yours is
women beautiful; but they are shadows all. Yet lame. Don't harm him, he may be saryiceable.'
all these are as real as though they were not  'As you will,' Ianswered, and repJace 4the
shadows ; and they are eternal also. Strange weapon in my belt.
that shadows should be real and eternal.  Who  Gilnore looked thoughtfully at the body of
knows all this ?  Hark! I hear a whisper; it is Prairie- Wolf.
the whisper of my heart, and it tells me all this  'I told you it would be so,' he 4  hen
is true.                                    the critter is once seen, they can't eva e him.-
And what is death ; is that a shadow also.- They go out and don't return no more. There's
Yes, a very dark and dreadful shadow ; dark a heap o' mystery about it. The varmint lays
even to the bravest warrior.  But why do I there on his back. The question is what laii
think of these things.  Why do I talk of the him there. Nobody knows; be fell down- all
world of shadows, and the shadow of death.-  of a sudden. There is a hole in his breast;
Hark ! once mere I hear another whisper;- this what made it ? Nobody knows that either-
time it is not from my heart, it is not from my They say it is the work of Black Ralph; but
head ; it seems like the, voice of 'Monedo him  who is he ? that's the mystery of it; nobody
self. It says the summers and the winters of knows. I've had my say and have done ; now
thy life time are counted, and the path to the I am ready to go, for I don't like to look at
land of s uls is open. The days of Prairie that critter as he lays there so nuch like coi-
Wolf areffilled, and his shout shall be heard mon airth.
no  more in battle-.Minno, Monedo ! The      Gilmore took the horse of Prairie:Weof bly the
spirit of thy red child is ready.'          bridle, and  we turned slowly and thought-
Prairie Wolf paused.  He laid his hand once  ly rom the spot. I mused as i w     ralked=(h
more upon the arching nek of his steed; he death, how suddenly thou comes
stroked his mane and looked into his eyesas if . When we reacthe g settle ent  e on wd
bidding him farewell.  .itthe scene of the-greatest.excite                         nd
alarm.  Flora had gone forth as usual,'n  a
'I am going to the hunting grounds, and I  nora A
shall need a horse to ride,' e added;' a horse n te       rthur was out in pu io
feet of' foot, for the hunters there' ride faster elder Dale was putting. his long rifle it
The India  trn       no                 order, and making other preparations togoon
'.te  ndin urnd uddnl frm  he  h e  trai, ?rdia ghis wor t life a +a ol d  e
- i       ' 'respiled -atid fell.I' r to him, reaized. K ,Fs              '
bent over him, raised him up; but he was dead
S   r   fkins from his chest anl thefl soea    u to i
mark ~t~ak Iph was indeed tliere.'.a hole of Floars dumb


'They have carried her away,' he said sternly, I I am  used to the critters, and I dont advise
'and I shall not rest till I find her. I will fol- you only for the best, because as I know the
low them to'the last-I will wash out! the inju- feelings of a father.'
ry in blood. What can daunt me?  What shall --' Your advice is good,' replied Dale. 'I
change my purpose ?   Who shall bid me turn am not without experience in these matters , for
tack?  Do not speak to me ; do not seek to since our sojourn here, we have been continu-
detain me a moment, for the moments are pre= ally beset by the savages, and have learned
cious. They are bearing my child away-; but t something of their ways. What would you rec-
will dog them like the -footsteps of death.'  commend us to do ?'
I said no more, for I knew that all words   'Follow on foot, by all means, and push
wete useless-that action was needed.        arter them night and day.  When the trail is
Of my own emotions I will say nothing. ,Suf. once discovered, I- am the man asI will go with
ice it that I felt rising within me all the indig- you; and it's my crpinion that Two Shooter 'll
nation, mingled with alarm that I was capable see some sarvice afore we get back agin to this
ef feeling.                                jsprinklin' of a settlement  Death to the critter
Flora, the idol I had so recently set up in that this bit of iron looks in the face ; and there
y ha  to worship, was taken from us by a aint't nothin' surer. When you're ready, say the
ruthl   fd.;and that was enough to inflame-{ word, and I'm on the trail ; and you can't say
= and make me eager foi pursuit. I it too soon; for my huntis' blood is up, and I
laid    hand gently upon the 'arm of Dale.  feel it fermentin' in me like sonethin' hot and
Old man , I said, ' your arm  is getting uncomfortable.  I'm gettin' rilcd up clear from
Feeble, but nine is strong, I will go with you  the bottom of my onregenerate natur'.'
all that is sacred, I will not leave you until  'Lead the way,' said Dale, hoarsly; lead
'     °i restored to your arms, or her death be the way, and we follow; but for God's sake
bitterly avenged   ee ! I am ready ; let us hurry.  Dont delay ; remember that it is Flora
way to the woods.A I am yours for the rescue, that we seek.'
more than yours for vengeance'                ' I could'nt forget arter seem' her once,' re-
Dale Vaused and looked steadily at me. 'Yes, plied Gilmore, shouldering Two Shooter. 'She's
ouare pg man, he said, in a low determined the fairest gal the sun ever looked on, and the
voice.          the one I should have chosen sight-of her has done my old eyes good.'
thei       The I sh om aethni Byts
from ah    °li men. There is something in     Bylthis time the whole settlement was gathered
y   ogthat uits me; it's devilish, but I like about us,' men, women, and children.  The
men were eager for pursuit'; but prudence re-
.that moment Arthur mfde his apearance quired that they should:stay at home, totguard
"breathlesswith exertion, an&amp;black withdismay. the helpless ones that looked to them; for pro -
i1e's gone, he articulated, with difficulty.' tection.' . Reuben Dale the youngest son, tar-
The red ljounds have dragged her away.  Let ried with :the others, for ho was dot practiced
s arm, and away in pursuit.               in Indian warfare, and could be wore useful
e not too hasty,' said Gilmore. 'All must at the settlement itn case of an attack.
p; } 4ene with caution, or there wont be nothin'  'Four is enough,' said Gilmore, 'and pe
ood 'cie, of it.  It wont hoto pursue an In- haps one too many,' he added, in a lower
it;of you would a Buffalo. The minit they vice,
know you're on their trail, they~begin to play  All being ready, Arthur guided us to the
Lthe evSlt. re ngth dent do ; it want's cunnin'. spot where Florftwaslast seen.
t  ust hodone    y stratagem. We must       ' The critters .have beeti  erej!' gxclaimed
follow thorn as the cunnin' eatamount somxneimes Gihnore. . Therea where 4y trod down the
follows his prey ; silently, cautiously, yet swiftly grass; and there's the print of' a moccassin in the

PORTRAIT OF FLORA DALE.

' v7'$

R I3LA K      EAiJi fl

28


THE FORE

I

soft earth. Come on'; they have gone this way.
Here is a limb broke off. She did it with her.
own fair fingers, I'll be bound. And see here's
sumuthin' more ; it's the band she tied up her
glossy black hair with, she threw it down most
likely that we might track her by it. -I shant
foller this trail long you may depend on't. I
shall find out what the critters are drivin' at
soon, or my name ain't Gilmore.  When I can
judge pretty well of the gineral direction of the
varmints, I shall go arter them in a straight
line, and strike the trail, it may be many long
miles froi this.  An hour's travel will tell me
which way they mean to steer.'
It was now night, Gilmore strode on before
us like a tall, daik spectre. Well acquainted
with Indian wiles and Indian warfare, it cost
him but little trouble to follow the trail. For
an hour or more we followed his gliding move-
ments, without uttering a word.
'I know what I'm about now,' said the trap-
per. - Their course is towards Canadian River ;
we'll take the shortest way, and may be able
perhaps, to cut them off afore mornin'. It's
the Cherokee's we're arter, or I' dont know
much about Ingins.'
We took the advice of Gilmore and pressed
forward as fast as our limbs could bear us.
I felt no fatigue,'no fear-of danger ; I thought
of Flora only ; and that thought gave me
strength. Poor Arthur suffered much fear and
anxiety, and was deeply impatient for the time
to couie, when he could strike a blow for his
beloved sister.
There was not a heart among us that did
not burn to avenge the wrong of Flora. At
break of day, much to our satisfaction, we came
upon the trail once more ; after following it for
a time, we found two trails diverging widely.
We made a short halt to determine what
course to pursue.  At length it was decided that
Gilmore and myself should take the lefand each
party press forward with 1ll has i  au on.
We did so, and our companions :e soon
lost to view.  We kept the trail unil Iear noon
when we reached Canadiae River-, where it
seemed to 'terminate and baffe us.

U

p

.ST  FIEND.                              81
' Shall we cross ?' I asked.'
Gilmore shook his head dubiously.
They cant be a long way off,' he said, 'and
its hard to tell which will be the safest side of
the river. It seems to me there's some devil-
try afloat, and we can't be two cautious'; throw
yourself down here in the bushes and I'll go
for'ard and reconnoitre. If I dont return in an
hour, you may set me down among the lost ones.'
Somewhat reluctantly I laid myself down
upon the ground, and saw Gilmore glide swiftly
yet softly away.
One may be impatient for the lingering steps
of his swe-etheart ; he may be impatient for his
wedding night ; he may be impatient under the
lash, or the surgeon's knife ; he may be impa-
tient to meet his enemy,,in deadly combat; but
not more impatient than was I as I lay prone
upon the earth, awaiting the return of Gilmore.
In moments and under circumstances like
those, how inaction preys upon the heart, and.
stings it into madness. How terrible.it is for
the bold, daring man to lie'still, while the be-
loved of his soul is in danger.
To amuse myself I counted the birds as they
flew over ; I watched the sun as it went on at a
snail's pace, and wondered if some modern
Joshua had not commanded it to stand still: I
watched a limb, broken partly from the top of a
sturdy sycamore, as it swayed to and fro with a
mournful creaking sound, and asked my heart
if it were not a requiem for Flora. I gazed at
the clouds that floated across the skies, and
thought that all human hopes were like them
[saw the branches moving softly in the gentle
breezes, and wished that no ruder winds might
blow upon Flora.
Had my life depended upon it, I could have
lain there no longer. I sprang to my feet, 'hot
and feverish, with impatience. .Iknew that an
hour must have elapsed since Gilmore leffi e
'['he position of the sun assured me that ,it.ust
be so ; although it appeared like °the Iong
hours to my anxious mind.
I felt loth to leave the spot at once, so I
paced back and forth a quarter of an hour long.
er; as near as I could judge of' time.


32                   BLACK RALPH

I will follow him,' I said, mentally, if it be I
to death. I will never forsake a brave man.'
Though I felt uneasy at the stay of Gilmore,
yet I did not really believe that any harm had
befallen him  I knew him to be brave, cautious,
intrepid, and more than a match for two Indians.
I walked rapidly forward. When I had gone
about a hundred and fifty yards, I found the
river made an abrupt bend to the right. In-
stead of following 'upoy the bank, I kept a
straight onward course; I was soon made con-
scious that I was in a dangerous neighborhood ;
foV I saw the imprint of Indian feet, and beheld
at a short distance the smoke -of many fires.
My heart fluctuated between hope and fear-a
hope that I was near Flora, a fear of the worst.
I advanced with more caution.   With the
power of a strong will, I hushed the tumultuous
beatings of my pulse, grew  cooler, and firmer
as I neared the place of danger.  I was soon
near enough to hear the sound of savage merri-
nerit ; -and finally to look down upon the fires
of a large body of Cherokees..
The cause of their fiendish exultation was
soon apparent.  I beheld Gilmore lashed firm-
ly to a tree, stripped to the skin,=while his cap-
tors were 'busily piling fagots about him.
My heart sank within me, and my brain
grew dizzy with the sight. For a moment I
leaned against a tree, for support, and fervently
wished the earth might open  at my feet and
receivee me.
To save Gilmore semed impossible ; toleave
'him seemed cruel; to stay and witness his tor-
tures I could not  What then could I do? I
could not go for assistance ; for before my re-
turn the awful tragedy would be completed.
But the savages appeared in no great hurry
to dispatch their prisoner.  The faggots were
not placed against him, but at-the distance of
two paces, in order that his deathstruggle might
edengthened out as much as possible.
The trapper bore himself bravely ; as yet I
had' heard im  utter no words eof complaint
or entreaties fornmercy. I1 sawthim look wistfully
at Two Shooter, as it leaned against a tree.

Doubtless he thought of the many times it had}
proved his friend, and longed for another oppor-
tunity to face his foes with it.
At a short distance from the trapper, I saw
another scene.  Some savages vere howling bit- 1
terly over the bodies of two of their warriors ;
that was the work of Gilmore. In vain I look;
ed for some signs of Flora ; I could see noth-
ing of her.
The preparations for torture were now com-
pleted.  A horribly bedeviled savage taught a
burning torch from the fire, and , deliberately
placed it to the breast of Gilmore ; a dark itchy
smoke curled upward.
My temper could bear no more. I feltt every
drop of blood boiling within me. Without a
moment's hesitation I raised my rifle, took de-.
liberate aim and fired. The exultant smile
faded from the grim lips of the Cherokee ; and
his tongue never uttered war-whoop more. He
fell across the pile of faggots, and the burning
torch fell blazing upon his own lifeless breast
A smile of triumph flitted across the lips of
Gilmiore, for he recognised the well- know;-
crack of my rifle;. but that expression gav
lace to one of alarm, and he cried out at th
top of his voice.
'Save yourself, Seward, for God's sake save
yourself Care not for me.'
The warning came too late, even had I been
disposed to profit by it. Before a.'minute had
elapsed, I was completely surrounded, and the-
hope of escape cut off. I placed my back against
a tree and fought desperately with my clubbed
rifle. I prostrated several, and shot two with
my pistol before11 was overpowered.  I was at
length knocked down by a blow upon the head;
but I made resistance even after I was down,
fighting with my hunting knife, and dealing
some fatal wounds.
Human effort could do no more.. I was firmly
secured and soon stood beside Gilmore, a can-
didate for the same fate.  While I stood there
sufeii the taunts and abuse of my captors,
an Indian, who seemed to be wounded, slowly,
and with much difficulty approached.

TIE FORE.
The moment my, eyes fell upon him, I fel
my heart sinking within me, for it was the very
same [ had lashed upon the horse, and sent
flaming away, as I supposed, rpon the long rids
of death. .The recognition was mutual.  A yel
of unearthly triumph burst from  his lips, t
shadow forth, if possible, some faint portion o
the overpowering joy and triumph of the mo
ment
He advanced grinning, like a fiend, spat in
my face, struck me upon the mouth and breast
and expressed his malignity in various ways. ,He
then turned to the others, talked a long time,
pointing at me with frantic gestures. A long
shout of approval followed his harangue, which
was repeated, apparently by every squaw in
the camp.
'lHe's tellin' them about sunthin' you've
done,' said Gilmore, 'the critters are gettin'
oncommon savage. Our wanderin's together
are putty nigh ended, and we shall go on our
last journey together to-day.  But dont be
down-hearted about it, my boy.; they can't make
it last more nor a few hours at the most ; it's
best to die game, and let the varmints know
we've got some o' the- rale stuff in us.  You
tipped the critter over handsum and no mistake;
it did me good to see him go under in sich an
onexpected manner; but I'm sorry for you, boy
--sorry for you!l'
'It can't be helped now, old friend,' I an-
swered, ' As you say it will soon be all over ;
and our ashes will be given to the winds to toy
with.  Well, let it be so; it may be as well in
the end, we can't die but once, and who knows
but we may be better off
. Gilmore turned his face inquiringly to mine.
The light winds from the West played with the
scattering grey hairs upon his temple ; a tear
stood in each eye, but a faint smile was discerna-
ble upon his lips.
You talk like a brave man,' he said, and
may God give you his blessin' as I do mine.
We shalt have a hard time on't for the next few
hours ; but I hope Heaven wont quite desart
us, though we're but sinful. men at the best.
Dont look at the critters ; they're preparin' their

s ' FIEND.                                33
It worst tortures for you, and it will be terrible
y for nothing' but flesh and blood to bear.'
t    'I deserve it in some sort,' I replied, for I
e have meted it out to others, and "now just Heav-
I en returns it to me in full measure. I have
o been a hard, passionate man, Gilmore, and I
f am hardly fit to die; but I will strive to hear
- it.  May God be more merciful than I have
been.'
' Even so, and the old trapper's prayer goes
t with yours. Bat look, Seward, they're bringin'
pitch-wood and splittin' it into small pikes ; I
told you the devil was in them. Perhaps you
don't know what them are for; but you'll know
soon enough.'
'They are to ornament our flesh with,' I re-
plied.
'May lightnin' blast them !' exclaimed Gil-
more, 'They a going' to truss you up like a
goose for a roast.'
I was divested of clothing and bound to the
tree to which Gilmore was lashed. The faggots
which were already heaped, were removed a pace,
farther from us, in order that our tortures might
be protracted to the last moment.
The Indian who had escaped the horrible
death to which I had doomed him in the hour
of my frantic madness, was most busy of all.
The task of putting us to death, seemed by com-
mon consent given into his hands.
He ordered everything-the arrangements of
the dry sticks-the manner of securing us-
the preparing of the inflamable wood, and in
short the exact mode in which the infernal rites
should proceed.  lie was careful that the Pitch-
pine should b properly split, of the best quali-
ty, and abtindatit in quantity.' I served with
a shuddtibat several fires were to delighted,
before the erdrionies would be ended; and our
sufferings cease ,
The indians iow formed"a circle around us,
and the death dance commenced. Even now a
horrible faintness creeps over me whna  I recall
that scene.-
The air was rent with yelle, which fournds a
thousand distant echoes amid the surrondn
hills.                                 in


84                    BLACK RALPH

The women and children caught up the bur-
den of that satanic song of triumph, and made
it many times more dreadful.
Who can describe such orgies?  No person
living ; it surpasses the power of human de-
scription.  They leaped about like drunken
devils; they threw themselves into all manner
of uncouth shapes; they gnashed their teeth, and
foamed at the mouth. Then a warrior would
dance up to us' tell us what he had done, and
what he would do, call us cowards, squaws,shake
his hatchet in our faces, and retire greatly sat-
isfied with what he had done ; and so the rites
proceeded.
At length all was ready for the torture. The
same savage that 1 have before called attention,
to, approached me with his hunting knife.
'White men die like women,' he said, in his
own tongue. ' They have no courage ; but In-
dians die like men.'
Another Indian followed, bearing a bundle of
inflarablo wood. The savage grasped my left
arm with his thumb and fingers and raised the
:skin; looking steadily into my eyes to see if I
inched, he thrust his knife slowly through that
portion which he held. The pain of the inflic-
tion was considerable, but I uttered no cry.
Through the opening which he had made in my
flesh, with no gentle hand, he forced one of
the pieces of piteh-wood.
The savage'spectators shouted in concert, and
the operator proceeded with his work.
I shut my eyes and commended myself to
While he was inserting the knife for the third
time into my arm, I heard a yell of consterna-
tion from the Indians,and opening my eyes in sur-
prise, beheld them flying in all directions, while
one of their number lay dead, apparently, within
the area of the" circle.
I have alluded casually to an abrupt bend in
the river ; at it swept back again to resume its
general direction, it passed between two mighty,
ledges, some fifty feet high, which arched over
until they nearly spanned it like a bridge, form-
ing a frightful chasm about .fifteen feet wide at
the top, and the width of the streamn below.

Directly over this abyss, through which the
waters went roaring and tumbling-and casting
up foam, I beheld in mid-air, a horse and rider
of gigantic size. It was but a moment that I
beheld them, for the twain flew over the chasm
and landed safely upon the other side, before
my lips could utter an exclamation of astonish-
ment. It was right gallantly achieved, and
when my tongue found its use ; I shouted mad-
ly in the excess of my admiration ; and Gil-
more's stentorian voice arose in concert with
mine. [sEE FRoNTIsPIECE].
The Indians were seized with a sudden panic;
when I turned my eyes to where I had last
seen them, not one was in sight, save him who
had fallen.
'Tis Black Ralph,' said Gilmore, 'and he
rides as though God had sent him express. Did
you obsarve how the varmints run, crying Ma-
chinito, Machinito!'
Before he had time to answer, the mighty.
steed and rider alightd at my feet as though shot
down from the clouds, from the bow of an in-
visible archer.
I felt that my bands were severed, and that
I was free ; I knew no more at that time, for 4
fell fainting to the earth. When 1 recovered, I
looked wildly about me for the mysterious horse
and rider ; but they were no where to be seen.
I beheld only Gilmore who was holding my
head upon his knees.
'The critter has vamished,' he said, with a
solemn shake of the head. 'He went jest as he
come, and we dont know no more of Black Ralph
than afore. There's a heap of mystery about
it, and I hav'nt got no philosophy to account
for it '
Did he say nothing'? IJasked.
'Not so much as a word. He pointed with
his hand off in that direction, and I saw him no
more-
I arose like one awaking from a horrible
dream.
'Pve taken the liberty to take the ornaments
from your, arms,' added Gihrnore, pointing to
the splinters which he had withdrawn during my
unconsciousness.

4

THE    FOREST    FIEND.                             35
'Hurry on your clothes, my boy; dont delay, in thinking of the strange events of the last
for there's no safety, here. It wont be long hour. t had been captured by those knowing
afore some o' the varmints will be creepin' no mercy ; I had been made ready for the sac-
back to see what has becomeof their things.'  rifice ; the fires were prepared to light, the work
I was not long in doing the bidding of Gil- of torture bad commenced, when a horse and
more, as the reader may suppose. My rifle rider shot suddenly before mir vision like a bolt
was fortunately left by the Indians in their hur- from the archer of God. The gigantic steed had
ned flight; so was Two Shooter ; and the trap- spanned a chasm, which seemingly no mortal
per possessed himself of it once more with an horse could master; a savage fell down dead at
expression of pleasure I shall not forget.  the moment of his appearance ; my captors dis-
It's been a good friend to me,' he said, 'and appeared as if by enchantment ; my bands were
I -could'nt learn to do without it. I've been in severed like burning flax, and I was free.
many a straight place during my pilgrimage in  But where was my deliver'?  He had vanish-
this great wilderness, and the critters have thirst- ed with his leviathan horse. Had he sunk
ed for my nateral blood more nor once ; but down into the earth'? or had he risen into the
Two Shooter was by my side, and when it open- clouds? Ii)knew not; and Gilmore could give
ed its iron mouth and vomited its fire at them no account of it.
they give back and could'nt stand it.. But let  But I was saved. How much that word ex-
us take a hasty look into them lodges as the presses ; saved-saved from torture, fire, a hell
warmints have desarted, and see if we can find upon earth.
Flora Dale-bless her sweet face.'             Was I thankful--did my heart run over-
We were not long in examining the lodges. did my eyes fill with the warm tears of grati-
Flora was not there, and we turned away with tude ?
heavy hearts, though thankful to God for deliv- Yes, for a period of time; and then my darker
erance from a cruel death.                  nature arose within to road me to acts of retal-

We had gone but a few paces when a thought
suggested itself to me. I seized a= burning
brand from a fire, hurried back and applied it to
all the lodges successively.
'Good,' said Gilmore. 'We'll do the critters
all the mischief we can.'
Saying this, he gathered up all the guns,
rifles,. and other things of value which the sava-
ges had left, and threw them far out into the
river.
The last. we saw   of the encampment, the
lodges were burning splendidly, sending up
long columrns of red flame.
'Now,' said Gilmore, 'we niust away in that
direction, and cross the other trail. One terri-
ble danger has passed ; and God is merciful,
but there's more jest, afore us.  Black Ralph
has proved our:friend this time, but I should a
leetle rather not give him a chance to save us
agin.'
AsI followed the swift footsteps of the trap-
per, I half forget the danger that environed us,

iation and vengeance.
The pain of my arm added not a little to my
savage mood. I vowed death to every red man
who should come within my reach. Such was
the resolution I formed as I went forward.
CHAPTER VI.
A MYSTRnIOUS VISITOR.
T was night when we found the trail refer-
ed to; and we followed it with unabated
vigor until midnight.
'We need rest,' said the trapper. 'We will
lay down, somewhere hereabouts, and try to
sleep until mornin'.'
'I.feel no weariness,' Ireplied. 'I think
not of myself. It is Flora, only that is first in
my thoughts.'
'You wont feel tired while your young blood
is hot, of course, but you set down a 'inute
and get cool, and see if ypu x3n'# -feel stiff
in the joints. Rest to-nigtit, and you'll he able
to hold' out the ,Iodger; beee we  e w deday-


THE FOSIE FIEND.-

light to fuller the trail, for I parceive that it up a piece of the choicest venison that I've seen
grows more difficult at every step. Let us walk for many a day ; and here it is.'
away in this direction, and we'll soon find a  The venison was -cooked, and a portion of itJ
spot for our purpose.'                     eaten ; but I cannot say that I enjoyed it very'
'Do you intend to kindle a fire?  I have al- much, though I had fasted long.
ways heard it was not'safe to do so in the neigh-  This done Gilmore gave me one of the blan-
borhood of Indians.'                       kets he had taken; I wrapped myself in it and
'It isn't allers safe ; but human critters must was soon asleep, forgetful of all the dangers
eat and drink and git their nateral warmth re- that environed me.
stored. Perhaps you dont remember that no     I slept perhaps three hours before I awoke..
food has passed our, lips since mornin'. The Upon opening my eyes I perceived the figure of
fact is we dont know what is afore us. We a man sitting thoughtfully by the fire.  At first
may have to foller the critters several days, and I thought it was Gilmore ; but a second glance
shall need all our strength and courage ; and a assured me that it was not, for he lay sleeping
hungry man hasn't much strength and courage  beside me.
Come on, Seward, here's our chance. We'll    Though much astonished at what I saw, my
build a fire right under the shelter of this great presence of mind did not forsake me ; I observ-
rock.  Bring on your dry sticks, and we'll ed the intruder attentively. I perceived that
have it lazing in no time. That's your sort-- he was a white man, though his face was tanned
now it smokes-now it leaps up into a cheerful byexposure nearly to the complexion of an In-
blaze. Fire is a useful sarvant, boy ; but it's a dian.t I judged him a man of uncommon size
bard master. Jest think of being burned alive ! and inured to all kinds of hardship.  Before I
Marciful God ! what an escape we've had. It had time to scan him more minutely, he spoke.
a'most brings the tears into my old eyes to  'You should have extinguished your fire,
think on't. I'd given up all- airthly things as
was dear to me when I heard the crack of your yo   ' m a ,  in a  aid d o   n
rile Sou can't never know whatathilo soundly,' he said, in a calm, clear voice.  'An
joifse on't rough no when I  hri, ad enemy might have surprised you as easily as I
joy it sent through me when I heard it, and have done. He who finds his bread in the wil-
knew it, and 'saw the red varmint fall. Butderness, must be cunning as a serpent. Al-
afore the smoke had cleared away, I'd a given ways be on the alert. ,Never give an enemy a
worlds if I'd had 'em, to have had you a dozen chance to strike while you slumber.'
miles away.  Misery likes company ; but that      d. h                       t kept me
case was an exception ; I didn't want none of  I made no answer. Astonishment kept me
Knowing as I do aysrapea thart, I can dOne of those red hounds of hell might have
well believe it,' I answered; 'and that brings shaped yen here, and carried your scalp to
stoBlack Ralph n.  'hold                   up  to  the  eyes of  her you  love, before  the
s    , Ba         '   o   ed to stop, besun had kissed the east with his beams of light.
Yes, and there we're obleegedgav to               aestopsek be-api       .maden
cause we can't get no further,' added Gilmore.  Brave men are you to seek for captive maien,
You spoke of eating,' 2 said after a short or to follow the trail of the copper faced fiends!
pause. "Our fire burns brightly, but what have  ou and that  ma threwould sheep  ranl
we t coo ~'your; throats were being cut,' added the' stran~
we to cook?''2..
You youngsters are not so thoughtful as old ger in tones of withering sarcasm.
fellers'lik. ne as have lived '  the bush all  'Who spoke '?' said Gilmore, rubbing his eyes
their ifdtinie.'MWhen we left the Ingin ea- between sleeping and waking.
campenettio-day, ou obsarted that I took a ' One who might have scalped you while you
aoule3 of iblankeis in them blankets I rolled slept," etorted the unknown contemptuously.

37

'What do you say ?' exclaimed the trapper, ed that shall-pass threagh my body; the hemp
springing nimbly to his feet.             is not sown that:shall hang me; the fire has not
' I might have said a thousand things for the been kindled that shall consume my flesh. But
last hour and you would ,have been no wiser,' if it were not thus, I should not feel what men
he added, in the sametone.               call fear ; 'tis not a part of my nature. I am
' Don't provoke me,' returned Gilmore, seat- constitutionally bold; and circumstances have
ing himself. 'I ain't in exactly the right mood rendered me reckless.. Dare me to call you a
to be trifled with.'                      coward, or what you will, and I will repeat it
The intruder laughed scornfully,        any number of times, and suffer no harm in body
'Trifled with indeed?' he, said derisively.- or limb.'
'Your head is sprinkled with the grey hairs of  ' You're a madman,' retorted the trapper.
some fifty wintery, but you are a fool.'    'And you are what I have said,' returned
'The hand ofdivine proverdence as is stretch- the stranger.
ed out over all of us, has within a few hours  Quicker than thought Gilmore snatched his
saved me from death, and been mareiful to me; rifle from the ground beside him, pointed it at
but if it were not so I would shoot you through the stranger's head, and pulled the trigger.--
the head,' replied the trapper solemnly.  The lock fell, but there was no report.
'Bah ! do you think that 1 do not know my  The trapper flung it from him, muttering as
man ?' he rejoined. 'Yes, you do think so ; he did so-
but you are mistaken. What is a man good for  'It is the firat time Two Shooter ever served
who lays down and sleeps under the very nose me such a trick.'
of an enemy. I pronounce you ignorant of    ' Had you been a skilful backwoodsman, you
woodcraft; and furthermore, I pronounce you a would have examined your rifle as soon as you
coward.'                                  arose from the ground ; then you would have
.4I will face you with a rifle at twenty yards,' learned that the caps were taken from the tubes
said Gilmore angrily,                     of both barrels. I did it while you slept like
That sounds like Indian bravado,' replied all the seven sleepers put together. It wont do
the itruder, with the same provoking sar- you any harm; perhaps it ngay learn you a les-
casm.                                     son of, prudence and wisdom."
I can't stand this no longer,' exclaimed Gil-  Gilmore looked disconcerted.
more, enraged beyond endurance. 'I've lived  ' And who are you that would teach an o
in the wilderness some twenty-five years, offand nearly fifty winters?' he asked.
on, and no man. ever dared call me what ydi  'One who has never harmed you or yours
.have called me this night; and there's 'not, a and perhaps never will,' replied the "ntrdr...,
man been St. houis and the Rocky Moun- 'Who I am, or what my business is d
tams as would think it safe to say half what matter; but my advice to you i b  more
you ve 'said within the last five minutes. I don't your guard when you'rton the, Ic
know you, and don't know your business; and you aFcoward; I dentI think youdare really
what's more,' I don't want to; but my advice is coward, but I wished to show-'you that you
mend your manners, and keep a civil tongue in' were 'wholly unprepared for an  enemig
yur head, and-itmay be you'll live the longer grew angry, caught your rifle and' attem,
for it.'shoot me; but attracted by the light o
You speak as if there were.things I dare 'fire,'thad found you sleepingtikenhc
not do, but you do not know met There is from your rifles, sat dop, andwatehedbesid
nothing on the wide earth that I fear; I bear a you for more than an hour. You heavenly to
charmed life, TMe steel is nota hameiered that imagine me a :Chei-okee or Blackfdot to know
shall wound me ; ihe bullet has not been mould.'the imprudenceyou have heen'guiiltyge of5

BLACK " 1ALP;

16


BLA  K RAif1
'You are not exetly right, stranger, nor yet to my nature. I knew full well that I should
exactly wong. I knew well wat I was about destroy them without mercy when circumstances
he I indled a fire agii that' rook, because I gave me the power of doing so.
know the habits of- the Ingins. The critters at While I sat there muing, thoi deep darkness
present feel more like gettin' out of our way that precedes the d ga gave place to the first
tpaen   rin' aver'is,.faint blush of day. The sun lifted itself slowly
While the trapper was speaking, the stranger from behind.the distant hill; his bright, red
arose, stood beside me,; and said in a low voice : beams came creeping through the umbrage of
'Flora shall be rescued. Be bold; show no the trees. The vast forests and mountains smil-
mercy to the red men.  Slay them without re-, ed once more in sunlight. Birds, whosesnotes
morse. They are wild beasts,hell-hounds, dev- were pleasant in song sang upon the.branohes.
ils; spare' them not. When you are in danger Theimurnmur of the waters, and the murmur of
think of me, and perhaps I shall be near.' winds camesoftly, to the ear. Happy Would
The unknown ceased.: Before I had time to have been the heart within me had Flora Dale
reply, lie was gone, I knew not whither.    been beside_ me-there.
Atng      yiitor,'e nosaid, turning to Gil-  Alas! she waswith those whose tender mer-
more.                                      cies were cruel.
One as I should'nt wantmuch to do with,'  Gilmore supplied the wxning fire with freph
he answered with a significant movement of the fuel. My eyes :followed him mechanically in,
his movements. He out slices of venison and
'Did you ever meet him before?'     '   roasted them as a hunter only can. To gratify
,Never to my knowledge, and don't care to him I ate ; but heaven knows I felt not like.
be cquainte4 with him.                    eating.
oe seemed to-wish us no evil, whoever or - While tlius employed we were not a little
hatever he may be.                        startled by hearing the sound of approachig
I can't say that I'n pleased with him,' ad- feet close behind us.
the trapper,,with the same mysterious air  Our eyes were instantly turned in that direc-
I strikes me that the critter would find it un- tion, and rested upon the figure of a man clad in
posserable to repeat the Lord's prayer without true hunter style. He bestrode a dark grey-
mistake.'                                  horse of 'excellent proportions, powerful and
's human enough,' I replied, laughing.  spirited.
He may be human, but its my opinion he's  When he perceived he had our attention, he
a letle too intermate with a certain old gentle- reined up his steed, caused him to rear and
wa as has a oeien foot'                plunge, jump sidewise, and perform  sundry
'Nonsense ! You have too much good sense evolutions.
to entain such absurd notions,' I answered.  ,While executing these feats he held a rifle in
For y ti;    h of psas busy with his own bis left hand, guiding and directing them otions-
thoughts. T      rting wods of the.stranger of the animal with the right.
still rungIin myar; and L felt that they would  'The top of the morning to ye,' he said'
have an influence upon me.. He had said that l ping lightly from his horse-.
lora should be renoued, but what knew he of   ' Th  ame to yourself,' answered Gilmore,
B'lorashaking tie proffered hand. J' A fine spirted
Yet I' liked bigdtetter because he had spoken critter lyou'ar got.'
Sher name, and praised her deliverance from ' Two forty's a game beast, stranger. There's
floaptivtynothin i the shape of a hos that can beat
had bidene slay therd men without hin,' aepled the new comnerwith a satisfied
remorse,  andothapaddi wa# but to o egenri airs

THE FOREST FIEND.
'Two forty's the critter's name, I suppose,  'It's a hoss/l' replied the hunter empati.
added the trapper.                          eally.rp
You may set that down, as the critter's proper 'Will you eat ?' I asked, painting .to the last
Damne, Mister Greaser,' said the stranger.  piece of venioanl u  oses
I took 'Flora's hand.          g.        piee    .   son in our possession.'
No occasion, though I took but a slight break-
My name is'nt Greaser, by no means,' re- fast. Where are you bound,.and what's your
torted Gilmore, with some asperity.         business ?'
Perhaps you never saw a hoss afore?' We made known to him what had happened
continued the other.                        and thewnature 'of.our-business.
'Perhaps not!' said Gilmore.                eI'm hound to go with you,?nhess
,'Taint by no means likely that you ever did, when we had finished our relation.  r'
either of ye, jest look at that eretur ! There, now  nothin' suits my disposition better nor hutitin'
you see a hoss as is nothin' shorter than a hoss. Ingins. Somehow it cones natural; and it'
Two Forty come here.'                                                       ' oeo  tcoe  aua; andits-
Tw 3ot cm   e'                         priverlege i' could'nt be -deprivedon' at no rate.
The animal walked quickly to his master's What say you old Fire-Eatern'
side. ' i              stranger, you've got a disergreeable habit of
Rare up behind,' said the hunter.       cam enae        sI   a'tchitnd      fy  n
The animal immediately fell to kicking vigor- you'd oblege me  I wai' iteed In  ard
9usly with both hinder feet, throwing them high tyou  ge    m'       it o      In   as
in thtar                              your goin' with us, I amn't no objeetion ; a
in the, air.                                y our boas seems to hav  osdrbedwrto
' Kick up for'ard,' added the hunter.    if you hav'nt got none tondare' a  sretio
Forthwith, the half human beast commenced the trapper, in rather bad humr.;answered the
rearing in an extraordinary manner.           'Il'm grateful for any. complerment pidto
'He stands as straight as a man,' observed Two Forty; and it's the same as thoughyo
Gilmore.                                    paid it to me, I'm called.'Buston, and often~ an-
'A great deal straighter than some men; 'old swer to it.'
Deer-Killer,' rejoined the hunter, slapping the  'We are wasting time,' I remarked eiphat.
trapper on the shoulder.                   ically, "Let us be off.
'My name is'nt Deer-Killer, in the least,'  'Agreed,' said Gilmore, ' Come Buster,' he
said the trapper, with a scowl .            added, turning to the hunter.
'Show us how   this old fuller's hoss moves  ' Comin' replied Buston. 'Go it old Cart d
over the ground,' continued the stranger.   Box.'dge
Two Forty laid back his ears, dropped his   And we shouldered our' rifles and no
head until his nose nearly touched the ground, swiftly away upon the trail.
and moved off in that particular and indescriba-
ble waypeculiar to lazy horses.             -IA PTER                  VI.
' That's slander, Leviathan ain't no sich                TWO FORTY.
varmint,' said Gilmore, smiling in spite of    MPATIENT to atone for whatsemed tome
himself at the comical appearance of the beast.  unnecessary delay
'Show us 'how old Ramrod here, '11 do when    as possible and s  pressed oar asfast
ho sees an Ingin?' continued our new friend, of my companions.  Heag the f n   va
'My name ain't Ramrod nor never was,' said small stream .on miy right and feeln thisI
the trapper, angrily.                       left the trail in order to tat its a
Two Forty instantly turned tail towardse,  I found I had be-i     swt
and ran away with all possible speed, lookingre   t is neare; di wsom       ar u
behind, like an animal really frightened.  ndred ards tot oafo ri case    h t
' It is a noble beast,' I remarked,      wards it in order to return rottai


40

THE - FOREST FIEpTD.                         41

BLACK RALPH

Gilmore and Buston passed; in doing so I did
not observe due caution, for the way was'ex-
tremely rough, and seamed with wide, rocky
chasms. Making an unlucky step, I fell. I knew
-no more, for some time. Upon opening my
eyes, I found myself lying at the bottom of one
of the chasms I have named. My temples
were bleeding and so wa's my wounded arm
and hand. Still somewhat bewildered, I arose,
and with some exertion reached the stream for
which I had started.
Sitting down on its sloping bank, I bathed
my hand and arm in its cooling waters. I
then drank freely of the same and felt much
revived.
'What's the matter ?' said a voice near me.
I turned to see who - the speaker might be.
It was a tall, lean fellow, whose face was not
familiar.,
I have got an unfortunate fall,' I replied,
not a little astonished at such an unexpected
meeting.
Falls are common in this region,, young
man; and he is lucky who falls to rise again.
But *hat for Heaven's sake are you doing here
alone ?'
I briefy explained the nature of my present
business. He listened very attentively, and
when T mentioned the name of Flora Dale, it
seemed to affect him n9t a little.
Captured by the Indians, did you say?'
* And carried I know not whither,' I an..
weed.
For a few seconds the stranger looked ear-
nestl$ into my face as if to read my thoughts.
'And you are resolved to rescue her,' he
said, at length.
'Or die in the attempt,' I added.
An expression that did not please me passed
over the face of the man before me.
°  ulove this Flora Dale, perhaps?' he re-
' I said no t that I loved the maiden,' I re-
turned, drily.1
ah"i isnot necessary that you should say so;
ca read it uoiyour face every time you

Well, take it for granted, 'that I .love her,
or do not love her, just as seems good to you.
It makes little difference.'
'On the contrary it makes all the difference
in the world. Look at me a moment.'
.I see you.'
Do I not look like a match for you in your
present wounded and bruised condition ?' he
asked, curling his nether lip contemptuously.
'I fear no man, large or, small,' IL answered,
wondering what all this could tend to.
'You perceive that I am a man in stature, I
presume ?'  ,
'Tall enough to trim the Northern Lights, I
should think,' I replied.
'You take it pleasantly, but it will be seri-
ous enough by-and-by. Look at my face.'
- The stranger paused, and a - most forbiding
scowl appeared upon his brows, while the whole
expression of his face was sinister in the ex-
treme.
'Not a very prepossessing visage certainly;
it will probably hang you one of these days.'
'Very good ; according to your own; show-
ing I am one not to be trifled with, and so you
will find it. I love Flora Dale.'
'You!' I exclaimed contemptuously.
'Yes, J!'
'I must say there's but a poor chance for
you, if I have seen the best side of your face,'
I replied, laughing.  'No christian woman will
ever fancy such a figure as yours.'
'I have made a solemn vow that, Flora Dale
shall be no wife unless she be wife of mine, and
it is registered in  - '
'Hell,' I added.
'I was going to say Heaven, but if it will
please you better, I will alter it and say that
my vow is registered in hell. Little difference
will it make to me where it  registered.'
' Youare an arrant scoundrel ! I'retorted,
growing hot with passion.
'Fool!'
Boastinmiserable coward! How dare
you speak the name of Flora.'     h     t,
ecried,in evoice of thunder. 'It needs bt a

word more to make me trample the breath from
your body, and give your carcase to the wolves.'
' Cease your prating!' I exclaimed, in a
voice as terrible as his.own. ' Cease, or T shall
forget that it is wicked to do murder. You
speak of not knowing you; God in Heaven ! if
you knew but half of what I am capable of do-
ing, your six feet and a half of bone and mus-
ele would shake like the leaves of yonder as-
pen.
In the anger of the moment I had forgotten
my wounds, my bruises, my weakness, and felt
within me all the strength which my fiercest
mood always inspires.
'Listen to the conditions I offer,' said the
stranger, after a short pause, in which he ap-
peared to be struggling with himself for some-
thing like composure.  'Mount your horse, if
you have one, lash your rifle upon your back,
and leave this country forever ; do this, and I
swear I will not harm a hair of your head.'
Well, what if I do not choose to comply?'
Ig you are fool enough to stay, I will not
promise you a week's probation upon the face
of the earth ; I swear it.'
'Damnable villain ! get out of my path, or I
shall not be able to control myself. To my
other crimes will be added the crime of murder.
Begone I say! 1begonel'
These words fell from my white lips in tones
of thunder. The ruffian recoiled a step in sur-
prise.,
'Mistaken idiot ; do you suppose for an in.
stant that I can be daunted.   A  thousand
wretches like you could not shake my soul with
terror. Ask the winds to pause in their flight
and listen to you, and they will do your will as
soon.'
'Hold !' shouted the stranger, in a voice
thick-with passion, 'or by my soul's salvation,
Will beat'you with rods as a. man beats his
dog; and afterwards I will tell Flora Dale what
I have done.'
I made no reply ; I- waited no longer ; the
evil aemon of my nature was in the ascendant.
I leaped upon the boasting ruffian with more
ferocity than ever- famishing tiger pounced up-

on its prey. He was borne to the earth in an
instant of times--quicker, if that were possible.
With the fingers of my right hand I clutehed
his throat like a vice. Tighter grew my grasp.
His eyes started from their sockets ; his tongue
protruded from his purple Wpa, while his whole.
system was shaken by convulsive throes. Gradu-
ally the struggle ceased. The chest ceased its.
motions; the limbs grew passive.
I dragged the body to the stream and threw
it in. The water was not deep enough to cover
it ; and it lay with its face upward, unmoved.
Vain boaster!' I exclaimed, ' where now
is your six feet of flesh and bone?'
I gazed at it for a brief moment, as it lay
there in the waters ; then, taking up my rifle,
turned hastily away.
The sun kept shining, and the birds sang on,
as though no murder had been done. The
winds and the waters murmured together ; but
their pleasant sound was gone. The wilderness
seemed to smile in sunlight, as an hour ago;-
but it smiled not for me.
I thought of Flora ; but now her name was
linked to the remembrance of a crime. I walked
on faster and faster ; but I could npt walk away
from that which seemed like a heavy burden;
growing heavier and heavier.
My eyes caught glimpses of an object tha
flitted from tree to tree, like a spectre. What
could- it be ?  Was it the ghost of the murdered
man ?  Was it an optical delusion?  I strode
boldly toward the spot to see if my imaginati9
was indeed playing tricks with me. I saw it
again, and it moved away like a frighten*4
creature ; it was the figure of a female.
Always ready to obey the dictates of the mo-
ment, I followed the form; but as it saw itself
the object of pursuit,"it quickened its flight ani
flew over the ground like a wounded bird urging
itself forward by the assistance of its injuredd
wings. I ran as fast as I was able. Like;the
timid hare ; like the light footed, deer;like
every wild thing that flies fromiorse and rid r
and hound, so fled the figure..
The ,distance shortened between u,
flying one heard my footsteps, an&amp; without$t~


42                     -BLACR RALPII

THE O1FS1'ID.

ing a glance behind, fell senseless to the ground.
I bent over her-raised her-looked intoher
face ; it was Floral/     .
I lifted her softly from the earth, laid her
earefully,'gently, upon my bosom, and bore her
towards the runnin water.
Though I held in my arms all that I loved in
the World, I gazed upon her with no unhallowed
eye. I feared to touch her too rudely-I did
dot desecrate with mfr lips the pale cheek so
neat ny own-for my hands were stained with
a new erime.
Though I had left the brook some distance
behind,,I was not long in regaining it, and roy
burden did not weary me.-
Her swoon was long and death-like ; but I'
had the pleasure of seeing her open her eyes at
last. She looked timidly in my face, shudder-
ed, and closed them"again.
'Floral' I said, softly.
The full, dark orbs were again fixed upon me,
but this time with an exclamation of joyful
surprise.
Flora, you are safe. One is with you who
wonld give his life to save yours,'I added.
A sweet"smile flitted over the pale lips of
Flora Dale.
O, sir, say again that I am safe,' she said,
with an afibrt.
A"thousand tines, Flora, if itwill please
you,' I answered.
She made no reply, but covering her face
With her hands, wept freely.
Let your heart be strong, Flora. By the
good assistance of Heaven, you shall soon be *re-
stored to the armns of your friends,' I added. -
She now seemed to be conscious for the first
tie; that she was lying in my' arms. She
itlf disengaged herself, blushing as she did
Wherehave you been?   What is your his-
tory?'Have you suffered ? I asked.
' You ask many questions at once,' she. an-
swered, with smile.  ' I have/been with those
Liked not ; my history is short; and I have
8tird But' you ee that I have escaped,
an tthankeGod.'

'Go it, Catridge-Box !' said a voice, and be.
fore I had time to turn, Two Forty leaped the
brook, and stood panting before us, with his
master sitting in the saddle.
'You're a mighty queer chap,' said Buston.
'You're setting' here as contented as a saint,
while we've; been racing-arter you for the last
hour. Mother of the pilgrims ! but it's a gal
you've picked up I It's posserbly one o' the
'babes in the woods' grown to womanhood. My
eye !  She's not a bad lookin' piece o' human
flesh. She looks about as nice for a gal as Two
Forty does for a 'hoss.'
Flora reddened to the eyes. I was about to
reprove the hunter for the liberty he had taken,
when she stopped me by a motion of the hand,
saying :
He,- means well. Suffer him to have his
way.
'This is Miss Dale, the young woman we
were seeking, I said, turning to Buston.
'And you've rescued her all alone !  That
warn't fair, by no means.'
No, I can't take to myself such credit. By
some means 'she escaped from her captors with.
out my help.'
And you mean to say that you found her
here in the woods arter she had got away from
the Ingins?'
- Exactly.'
'There must be some magnetism about that.
It's mighty strange that two young creturs should
find each other in this great country without
chart or compass.- But it can't be helped now,
though I slpould a liked to have had a brush
with the varmints. I believe I could fight like
a regerler hound for sich a nice, young female.'
' There may be a chance for you yet,'- said
Flora, smiling pleasantly upon the trapper.
'Yes, very true, marm: the creturs may catch
you again.I But I Can be of sarvice to you yet ;
you shall ride Two Forty, and he's the best hose
living.
'I thank you, I am sure,' replied Flora.,
'Two Forty, you scoundrel! make your man-
ners to t1 uncommon cretur.'
Th~e iana obeyed as well as he was able
to do.

'Nowkneel to her jest as I would if I was a
young man like that chap.'
Two Forty kneeled very gracefully, ,and
Flora, laughing, patted him upon ;the neck.
I've, e'enamost forgot the signal I was to
give if I found you,' said Buston, and putting
his hand to his mouth, he gave a shrill kind of
whistle, which was-instantly answered.
Gilnore was soon seen approaching us.
'Stir your stumps, old Two-Shooter! this
young chap has taken a prisoner!'
'Two-Shooter, I'd thank you to remember is
the name of my shootin'-irona; but where's the
prisoner?' returned the trapper.
' That's her !' replied Buston, with a corni-
cal leer.
'Flora Dale, as I'm an old sinner !  How in
the name o' natur did it happen ?'
What the reader already knows in relation to
the subject, was soon related.'
Flora then mounted Two Forty, and we moved
away as fast as we could. It was 'a relief to me
to leave the spot, and I was truly glad when I
could hear no longer the murmur of the brook
where the body of my rival lay..
It was a little past noon when we  halted in a
pleasant ravine.  Gilmore and myself kindled a
fire, while Buston went forth to kill a deer.
When this task was completed, I seated my.
self by the side of Plora.
"This is a quiet, secluded spot,' she remark.
ed.
I could almost wish to live here,' I replied.
'What ! and turn hermit ?'
O no; I should want a companion. Flora
Dale would suit me best,' I answered, gaily.
See how rank the wild sage grows on yonder1
bill-side,' she said, without heeding my last re-
'mark.
'How should you like living here, Flora ?'
O  very well, if the Indians would keep
away.'
You would prefer to be alone, probably ?'
By no means. I should want all my friends f
with me, and Two Forty to ride.'
'Youh tave not told mt 'your adventures yet,
Mias Dale ?'

'That is the first time you have called me
lis Dale to-day.'
'I beg your pardon.'
Granted, of course I for I prefer Flora to
all other names.
'So do I.'
'Something dies ! i heard tlIecrack oft the
hunter's rifle.'
"You have not yet fold me how you were
taken by the savages ?'
'There, is but little to relate ; I will tell you
now. Previous to your arrival with Arthur we
had been so much harrassed     e Indians that-
I had not walked as much as nual in the open
air. -After your coming-the next day-I felt
inclined to take the fresh air that breathes through
the forest, near the settlem t. The idea of
danger did not occur to me. ' he joy I experi-
eneed in seeing Arthur once more banished such
th ughts. Thewoods had never looked so green;
the brook had never murmured so merrily-; the
wild flowers never looked half so inviting; the
birds never sang more sweetly; the breezes
never sighed so softly in my ear.
My heart beat in unison with all things about
me as I walked slowly on. I sang and gathered
flowers as I went. I was thinking about Arthur,
and what a fine looking youth he had grown to
be, when a hand was laid rudely upon  my arni,
and another upon my mouth. I would havh
cried out for help ; but no sound passed ny lips.
I was in the power of savages. Mylterror, it is
impossible.'to describe ;'for the thought of an
Indian was always terrible to me. Could make
but feeble 'resistance. I was lifted 'upon the
back of a 'horse whose feet were co'verrd with
buffalo skin, that his steps might leave no trask
to indicate the way I had gone.
My captors were six in number.   One took
the horse by the 'bridle, while another ran
along by my side, the' others coming after
in single file. The smoothest and best ways
were chosen, and I was conducted rapidly away
frdm the settlement. My captors premed for-
ward all night without stopping    readfli
night ! weary and painful houirs! A shooter
was made in the morning. Food was efferel

l

4 '


THE FOReEST FIEND.                    45

me, but you may readily suppose I refused it.
I was again placed upon the herse, and we went s
on as before.                               t
We .had gone but a short distance, when, I
greatly to my surprise, as you may imagine, s
we were jgin     by a white man. I recog- t
nizqd him at olce as one of our settlers, suppos- l
ed to have bee'nkilled by the Indians some weeks
previously.  My heart grew heavier still; for I I
had reason to remember shim.'
'Was he a tall man?' -I asked, eagerly.   I
He was of uncommon stature,' she; replied.
Excuse th       uption.  Please go on, Flo- 
ra' I added, quie ly.
He had been one not greatly beloved by the
other emigrants, and his reputation as an honestI
man was far froth enviable. He was usually call-1
*ed Osborne : wt other name he might have
passed by while among us, I know not. What-
ever faintly lingering hope of escape I might
hitherto have cherished, left me when I saw him
approaching.
Cease to tremble,' he said. .'Your life is
not in danger. A word from me sets you at lib-
erty.'
'Then speak that word, that I may return to
my father,' I answered.
'Not so fast, it takes two to make a bargain.
There are certain conditions to be observed be-
fore I give you your freedom.'
' Those creatures are employed by you then,'
~I answered.
'I shall deny nothing,' he replied.  ' But I
will come te the point at once.
Flora paused, overcome by her emotions.
Spare yourself the pain of telling me the
nature of the conditions he imposed,' I said.
Thank you I' she 'answered, recovering her
self-possession., ' Suflice 'it that I rejected his
offers with scorn and indignation. . I was tor-
tured with his presence during the long hours of
that day. He menaced and entreated by turns;
but the wife; of such a man, who could be?
At Right we encamped.  An Indian lodgewas
prepared for an to sleep -in ; while Osborne
watched at the door, and 4he savages slept near
it. I la'ud, down upon the rudp couch prepared
for me and feigned leep.

I knew but too well that I could not long be
afe in the power of such aman, and resolved
o attempt'a escape. The lodge was built part-
y of skins, arranged as you have often seen. I
succeeded in detaching one of these from its fas-
enings  'I stood in the open air, without the
odge, and saw no one to oppose my flight.
Like one who flies from despair and death ;
ike one who flies from all that is dreadful on
earth ; like one whose only hope is in flight, I
ran from the scene of my thraldoni.
But I glided away cautiously at first, and my
footsteps sent back no sound to betray me.
What joy filled my heart as I threaded the
dark and lonely wilderness. I had escaped dis-
honor-I had baffled a bad man. Yet dreary
was the prospect before me ; for I might wander
many dcays without meeting a human being to
aid me;and I might perish for want of food.
But thoughts like these did not trouble me at
that time. I thoughtof, and only dreaded pur-
suit. I kept on and on; the dreary night roll-
ed away, and, the light of another.morning shone
upon me. More than once I imagined I heard
footsteps and was pursued. When I ran from
you, I supposed I was flying from  Osborne ;
hence my terror. What followed is known bet-
ter to you than to myself; for terror had nearly
driven me mad. I most earnestly pray that I
may never see the face of Osborne again.',
'Your prayer is answered,' I replied. ..You
need not fear him more-he is but dust and
ashes.'
'What do I hear,' she exclaimed, struck by
the solemn manner in which I had spoken.
'The man you have called Oshrne will nev-
er harm so much as a hair of your head,, Flora,'
I answered.
Is he dead-have you slain him?'
'Do not question me. Suffer me to forget;
or to emember that justice only has been done.'
'Your wordsinspire me with the conscious-
ness of something terrible. God preserve us
ll.
'Pray often; Flora,' I answered. ' The prayr
of the innocent are acceptable to God; andt
when you address the Throne of Mercy, if you

I

should remember my name, and say 'God keep
him,' it might be better for me in the last day.'
'Go it, old Cutridge-Box !' said a voice near
us. Looking up, we perceived the eccentric hun-
ter approaching, leading Two Forty by the bri-
die, bringing a good supply of venison. Nor
was this all; near him were Arthur Dale and
his father, accompanied by an Indian.
With an exclamation of delight, Flora ran to
meet her dearest earthly friends.
'I thank the protecting hand of God for this
deliverance!' said the old man, in a tremulous
voice, as he embraced Flora and kissed her.
' To have lost thee would have brought my
grey hairs in sorrow to the grave, even as said
one of old. But He tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb. He breaketh not the bruised reed.
A sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his:
notice.'
How I envied Arthur the pleasure of press-
ing her so lovingly to his heart ; but it was the
dear right of a brother.
The father of Flora took my hand in his.
'I would thank you if I could, young man,
for-the assistance you have rendered ; but I feel
myself incapable of doing so. Imagine, that I
have said much, and receive an old man's bles-
sing. There is Flora; she must say to you what
I feel, but cannot express.''
'Go it, old feller!' said Buston, in a low voice,
gsit's reasonable and just.'
"" 'The consciousness of having served Flora
Dale, renders me sufficiently happy, and you
owe me no gratitude,' I answered.
Arthur shook me warmly by the hand.
'Two Forty is every inch a hoss!' added Bus-
ton, slipping the bridle from the head of the an-
imal in question.
'I like him,' said Flora.
,W' lie's the only hoss this side the Rocky
Mountains, fit to carry sich an oncommon ere-
tir.'
The hunter paused,-and then turning to!Gil-
more, slapped him good naturedly on the shoul-
der, saying :
.' Don't you wish you was younger, Old Ram-
rod?'

'Ramrod isn't no part of my name,' replied
the trapper drily.
'Two Forty's a hoss, and Flory's an oncom-
mon cretur ! them's my sentiments, and if any-
body wants to fight on that pertickerlar subjeck,
I'm ready.'
But no person seemed disposed to take up the
gauntlet.
.During this time the Indian referred to had
stood at a short distance in dignified silence.-
He was truly a noble looking savage, and I
could not help observing him closely.
'Well, Bust-your-Biler, what kind of a spec-
imen of red human natar have you got there?'
asked Gilmore, pointing toward the Indian.
That's a eretur I fell in with while I was
gone,' he replied, and approaching the stranger
Indian, he struck him upon the shouldering his
own familiar style.
The red man turned upon Buston with an in-
dignant curl of the nether lip.
But the rattle-brained hunter was not abash-
ed ; nothing could abash him for a moment.
'How fare ye, Redskin ? Can you repeat the
catechism! do. you know the Lord's Prayer? are
you in a state of grace 2  Do you know whiskey
from bad rum?'
The Indian shook his head and made no re-
ply.
'Deaf as a gate-post, and in a complete state
o' natur!'
The stately savage remained silent.
'Perhaps you're Chenango, the last of the
Big.Reds, and don't like to speak to common
people 'C
Still there was no reply.
' Come here, old Brass Eyes, and see if you
can make him understand !' continued Buston,
turning to Gilmore.
: ' My nanue doesn't begin with Brass Eyes, in
any degree,' said the trapper.
Buston now addressed the Indian in a toague
which I could not understand a word of, and the
latter replied in the same language.
' .'He tells me he lives thear the Great Salt
Lake,' said Buston.

I

44                        BL4VK . ALPH
4                           t


46  BL          _C AL

THE FOREST FIEND.                47

'The iPah-Utahs are found up in that region,'
Gilmore remarked.
'And they're a dangerous set o' Red skins,
take 'em together,' replied the hunter. 'But
this cretur is an exception, for he come to me in
a very civil sort of way while I was cuttin' up
the deer I had killed. Two Forty snuffed the
air, and grew restless, and I knew there was
sunthin' about that be did'nt fancy. I looked
up and saw this varmint coming' towards me.
' Mind what you're about, Copper Face!' said'
T, catchin' up my rifle ; but the cretur laid his
hand upon his heart to signify that no hurt was
intended. 1 spoke to him in several kinds of
lngin, and we soon come to an understandin'.
He said he was a great friend to the pale faces,
and had been to Westport'all alone to see 'em.'
' He's a noble looking fellow,' said Dale.
'There's one deadly sin recorded against
him,' I answered.
*'What is it?' asked Dale.
'It is the unpardonable sin of a Red skin,' I
replied.
A'Are you really in earnest ?'
'I never was more in earnest !'
'What is the cause of your antipathy ?'
I cannot tell you; I think it must be con-
stitutional.'
'It's very singular,' said Dale, 'but I confess
that I have the same aversion, and cannot con-r
quer it.'
' Gentlemen, parmit me to introduce to your
partickeler attention, Brass Eyes, the last of the
Long Reds,' said Buston, with that peculiarly
comic expression wlich characterized all he
did.
Don't be a foolin' with the critter,' said
Gilmore.  'The varmint's proud, and doi't like
to be talked about too freely;'
The trapper now addressed a few words to
him:in the Indian tongue ; he then informed us
that he was. a Utah Chief,.with a. long name,
which, being interpreted into our language,
means 'War Path.'

CHAPTER          VIII.
THE DECLARATION.
WILL;not dwell upon the details of our
return to the settlement. It will be suffi-
eient to sqy that we reached- it without ae-
cident. In the society of Flora,,the days passed
pleasantly. . The more intimately I became ao-
quainted with her, the more I saw to admire in
her character.
On the subject of love, my lips had been-si-
lent. Ieared to tell her my passion. I wish-
ed that the sweet illusion, if illusion it indee4
were, might last, nor be dispelled too soon.
Since our return, the Indians had been guilty
of no inroads upon the.settlers. All had been
quiet. Gilmore and Buston vied with each
other in story telling, and we listened to, them
many evenings. Very many things were rela-
ted which I am sadly afraid never happened.
' Perhaps you never saw adog ?' said Buston,
on one occasion, 'though I am happy to say
you've seen a hoss. 4 number of. years ago,
I had the good luck to own a generwine dog.---
None e' your low bred common curs was Lion.
He come of a good family, and his airly eddi-
cation warn't neglected. He was'nt very large;
on there contrary, he was quite small. To look at
him, you would'nt think him no more nor a com-
mon dog, because you could'nt see none o' his
good qualities.'
'What could he do?' asked Gilmore, rather-
contemptuously.
He could run,' replied Buston.
'When he happened to see anything' bigger
nor himself ! I s'pose,'. added the trapper, in a
low tone of voice.
'There was nothin' could beat him at 4, dead
run, He could catch a deer, or a buffalo, or
antelope, afore they had run fifty rods.'
'An antelope!' said Gilmore, with a shrug
of the shoulders.
'There was'nt nothin' that he could'nt catch,'
continued Buston.  'I've known him to out-
run the wind, on a prairie, many a time. He

travelled on one occasion from Fort Walla Wal-
la to Westport, and back agin in two days, and
carried a letter, waited for an answer, and
brought-it to me. I used to grease him to prevent
the friction of the air from pullin' his hair out.
He used, frequently to git up and run in
is sleep ; and I was often obleeged to tie him
over night to keep him still; for I feared the
Wretar would run himself into a gallopin' con-
sumption. Every body that knew him said he
run to extremes. When there was nothin' in
pertickerler for him to do, I allers tied up one
Leg ; but that did'nt make much difference
rter all; he'd go out o' sight like a streak o'
chalk.'
'Did he die a nateral death in his kennel ?'
inquired the trapper.
'I ain't got to that yet, Brass Eyes,' return-
ed Buston.

him; for when he got tired o' runnin' on one
side, he could turn over and run on the other.
'What become of him at last 2
' He got a runnin' one day and co l'nt stop,
and I hav'nt set eyes on him since . I've no
doubt but he's a runnin' yet.'
'He was a wonderful critter.'
'Yes, Bose was-as wonderful for a dog as
Two Forty is for a hoss.'
' You said his name was Towser.'
'He had three names, said Buston, after a
momentary pause; 'two for week days and one
for Sundays.'
The hunter smoked a few whiffs, and then
went on.
'I once killed seven Blackfeet, who attacked
me at one time.'
' How was it done?' I asked.
' Why you must know I am mighty powerful

'Don't call me that name no more,' said Gil- in the magnetic line; and when I see the var-
nore, sharply.                             mints a coming' at me, I throwed down ,my weap.
' One day a curious accident happened to ons and commenced making' passes at 'em like
fowser.'                                   all natur. I had'nt made at the rate- of one
'You called him Lion just now.'          apiece afore they was all asleep-completely
' He had two names-one for Sunday, and one paralyzed. I took out their eyes, put 'em in
or week days. As I was obsarving, a curious my pocket, willed 'em  to stand there forever,
cident happened to h'im. There was an awful and left 'em, terrible moniments o' my power.
hunder shower one day, and the cretur, out o' Two years arterwards I passed that way, and
nischief, was a chasing' the chain lightnin'; I the bones were still standin'. Their friends
ay out o' mischief, because he was a well in- had tried to get' 'em away but could'nt ; a yoke
brmed anermal, and knew very well it would be of oxen can't start 'em as long as my will's on
io sarvice to him if he should catch it. Well, as 'em.'
e was a. running' with his head kinder up, he  'You're an oncommon critter !' said the trap.
id'nt mind exactly where he was going , and run per.
ight square agin a small beach saplin'. I run  'I never pertend to hobble Two Forty as
o him as quick as I could, and found him lay- other people do,' continued Buston ; 'when I
a' in two pieces-cut clean in, two, from the want him to stay in one place, I jest shot up
ip of his nose to the extreme end of his tail.'- one eye, paralyze his legs, and there he stands
'What dia you do then ?' asked Gilmore.  like a pillar o' salt. It s all done by the fluid
'I eked up the two pieces as quick as pos- you see ; and I've got a mighty heap o' the
erble, and clapped 'em together ; but unfortu- stuff about my clothes; but I can't stop to ox-
ately, in the hurry and excitement of the mo. plain to you how the will and the fluid are the
ent, :. put the poor dog together wrong-two same thing, and I allers charge a little santhin'
egs up and two legs down !' ',for sich information.'
'IDid it hurt his speed any ?' queried the  Tired of listening to the-stories of the back-.;
rapper.                                   woodsmen, I arose and left t     I stepped
'Not in the least ; it was a great benefit to into the open air, andfound the eight quiet and


THE'. FOREST FIEND.                 49

beautiful. A gentle west wind was breathing
softly over the trees and flowers. The settlers'
cabins looked pleasantly in the moonlight.,
In thetear of the- clearing was a range of
low hills, covered with cotton woods, beach
and maple ; upon the left, at a short distance,
flowed the Red Fork of the Arkansas river ;
upon the right were the green meadows I have
before referred to; in front of the cabins the
small brook, also mentioned in another chapter
went murmuring.
I felt attracted towards the game meadow
which had delighted me so much on a previous
occasion.
With sauntering, yet thoughtful steps, I ap-
proached it. As I passed on, I could not help,
looking at the range of hills where I had wit-
nessed the' death of Prairie Wolf. The whole
scene was recalled with .a distinctness I could
not well account for. I saw him standing again
by his horse ; saw him raise his hand, point to
the south; heard him speak of the land of souls ;
saw him fall down dead.
j' Who is Black Ralph ?' I asked for the thou-
sandth time.
Who could answer me ? No one, and so the
mystery must remain a mystery still.
How rational it was that I should think of
my escape also, and other events following it;
the strange visitor ; the fatal meeting with Os-
borne.-
I felt sorry that I had slain him, notwith-
standing that I knew he deserved his fate. No
man, when he is calm and rational, wants the
crime of murder on his hands. He may wish
a person dead, but the consciousness of being
his murderer would hang like an incubus upon
his soul.
I paused in my walk to view the scenery.-
The meadow lay like a smooth, green carpet
before me, and the light of the moon fell upon
it like beams of silver. On every side the
woods and hills shut it in, and it waa indeed an
oasis in the wilderness. It was the same I had
passed thro before I met Flora for the first
tize; and iemed dearer for that remem-
branco. Id slowly along its margin, stop-

ping a moment to contemplate the skies, and the
quiet scene at my feet.
I had gone about half the circumference of
the meadow. I was passing a avery dense growth
of sycamores, when a man sprang from their
concealment, presented a pistol to my head,
and fired. The ball grazed my cheek, and the
weapon was so near that the blaze burned m
hair. In a moment my cocked rifle was at i
breast..
'Stir' not, on your peril!' I cried.
The man recoiled a step ; the moonlight
streamed down upon his face ; Osborne was
before me.
'I thought you were in h-ll' lI exclaim
ed.
'It is by no favor of yours that I am no
there,' he answered, fiercely.
'I thought I had left you a heap of dust an
ashes; but I am glad that the breath of life r
mnained in you ; that I have not cheated th
hangman. No doubt but you have merite
death many times; yet I thank God that I a
not your murderer.'
' Canting hypocrite ! devil's own ! it is eas
to talk thus while you hold a loaded rifle to m
breast!' exclaimed Osborne.  'Oh yes ! youe
play the saint as well as the devil.  Fire, i
you are going to, and don't let me hear your l
ing words; they torture me.'
'You sprang upon me like an assassin,' I re
plied, 'and would have laid me bleeding at yea
feet. There .is no good reason why I should
show you mercy. How can you g agine for
moment that I shall spare you. Come, man
many crimes, prepare for death. , Look up
the moon, and stars, and quiet skies, for the la
time.  Say your adieus to all on earth-t
wood; stream and prairie. Send up a prayer
Heaven, and be quick ; for I would, have  over
'That is mercy indeed ! give a man like -a
two minutes in which to make his first and Inl
prayer ! Fool! do you suppose an old sinne
like me to make peace with offended Heaven i
so short space ? A~ year would not sullice-'
' Time is flying. Remember that in a few nn
utes those very mooubeamns at your feet wi

shine upon your dead face. Try to imagine
yourself lying down here at my feet, with your
dead, ashy face, turned towards Heaven-the
place you have thought of least in life.
'Taunt on, devil's bantling ! you have the
advantage-; I cannot defend myself; but were
we in a fair field, armed alike, and face to face,
it would be different.'
'If .I will yield up my present advantage,
and spare your life, will you meet me in the
field, armed as I am? Speak!'           -
'Try me ; but that you fear to do.'
'Swear that you will meet me in his meadow
to-morrow morning at sunrise, armed with a
rifle at fifty yards, and I will forego my present
advantage.'
Surprise for a moment kept Osborne dumb.
'I swear it!' he said, in a lower tone, 'and
bright and early will I be on the spot'
'And you may bring one friend with you to
see fair play,' I added.
'I agree to it,' replied Osborne, with a grim
smile. 'It suits me well.'
' Go, then, unharmed, and reme      you
fall to-morrow, that I shall not be your murder.
er-only the means Heaven makes use of to
mete out justice.'
'Please yourself with such folly, if you will ;
I care not, if you keep your appointment. I
will not oblige you to wait for me a second.'
I dropped the muzzle of my rifle.    Os-
borne turned slowly away.
'At sunrise,' I added.
'Aye t at sunrise ; and don't forget that I
have often killed my man,' and the tall figure
Osborne was soon lost to view.
As I retraced my steps, I could not help
thinking -'that it might be I was taking my
last walk by moonlight. .
I found Flora standing near the door of the
cabin.
'You have been walking,; you are very im-
prudent,' she remarked.,
'It matters little what becomes of me,' I
answered.  *I have no father or mother to
weep for me.
' But you have friends.'

' Perhaps I have a few,' I returned, sadly :
for at that moment I felt my loneliness and
friendlessness most bitterly.
'You are sad to-night,' she replied.
'Yes,; Iam sad; I have been thinking of the
past. It is a dark subject to dwell upon ; but
such reflections are natural.. Imagine a help-
less child, that never received a mother's kiss,
or a father's blessing. Imagine him fighting
his way up to manhood, with no one to love
and care for him. - What can you hope from
such a being-what redeeming influence can
save him ?'
' The God that rules the-universe, has said
that He will be a father to the fatherless. Trust
to His guidance, and all may be well. Per-
haps you have a mother in Heaven who throws
around you the soft influence of her presence.'
'Not so, Miss Dale,' I answered, 'It is sel-
dom. that my perverted nature confesses the
presence of an angel mother. My heart-is too
hard and unrelenting to be receptive of such
influences.
' I believe the human heart is always suscep-
tible of spiritual impressions. Bad indeed must
be he who is forsaken by an angel mother, or
sister.'
'It is a pleasant doctrine to believe in, Flora,
and to one who is young and pure, it may not
seem unreasonable. Were you to -assure me
that you had felt the presence of your sainted
mother, I wouldnot quarrel with your credulity.
There are periods in my own existence when 1
firmly believe in the immortality of the soul.'
'You should, believe it ever. There is a
voice within you that speaks continually of eter-
nal life. Seek first the Kingdom of God, and
you will cease to complain of the want of kin-
dred ; you will be able to stretch forth your
hands to the whole human family, and say,
behold my father and my ,other, and my
brethren.' Nought but the christian religion
can satisfy the desires of the human eoul, and
fraternize mankind.'
I made no answer, for I wished to express no
doubts to shake the trusting faith or distresathe
heart of one so young and innoc5 ta

48                     BLACK --RALPH


BLACK XALPI

We remained silent for a short space of time
f'You spoke to me once,' said Flora, at
length, ' of Osborne, in a manner so strange that
it has been a source of pain to me since. I
could have wished that some other hand had-
had-'
'Slain him,' I added.
'Then you did slay him !' she exclaimed,
clasping her hands as if terrified.
'Do you regret his fate, Flora?'
'It is not that ! Oh it is not that ; but the
crime is yours.'
And that pains you ?'
It does-it does / I would that some other
hand had wrought the deed !' and Flora cov-
ered her face with her hands to hide her .tears.
'Flora, dearest Flora ! the sin of murder is
not mine. 'I have learned within the hour that
he still lives.'
Flora gasped for breath like a drowning per-
son.,
Have you met him ?' she asked, in tremb-
ling accents.
Nay, Flora, question me not.. Suffice it
that he lives, and has the power to injure
you'
' But I am glad for your sake, that it is so.'
' Think of yourself, Flora. Be careful not to
venture from the cabin alone. If aught should
happen-if I should leave you sooner than'you
expect-.--I 'beg that you will think of me peca-
sionally  one who was your friend, however
unworthy of that honor I may have been. In a
paiieular manner do I request that you will he-
aN   f the machinations of Osborne. I *ill
noftrust myself to give utteance to all that
rises up in my heart; there is one secret I will
keep, perhaps it will die with me. I cannot
say; it is hard to tell what the future maybring
forth. .   --
Flora blushed.
*Something tells me that you have met Os;
borne; I.hope nothing unfortunate will come of
it.'.;
' You believe that God orders all things,
Flora; perha Hie will .direct all for the best
in this case.

*Trust in Him, Seward ; your faith will not
be lost. Yog/will think me a strange girl, but
I feel sure that we all owe a duty to Heaven;
and that the trusting heart will be strengthened
and made better.'
'Speak on, Flora, your words are kindly and
true,; they fall upon my heart as rain upon the
parched earth,'or as the dew upon the grass. I
only wish that I coup- be ever near you-ever
listen to your gentle tones-ever 'be blessed
with such a monitress.'
' You give me too much credit for goodness.
You will shlme me into silence by your flattery.'
I mesit 6t to flatter you ; God forgive me
if I did-it was the thought farthest from nly
heart. I would that I could speak to you,
Flora ; but it is the vast difference in our moral
condition, that makes me dumb.'
'I dare not trust myself to say more now;
but whatever may happen before another sunset,
do not forget that Edward Seward was your
friend-more than friend, if that be possible.'
I sQ   d and pressed -my lips to her hand,
Anda d 4 so, I was conscious that a tear fell
upon it.
'These are strange words,' she said, 'but I
will notsforget.'
I was ready to depart; but I still lingered, I
knew not why.. I still held her hand; and it
laid trembling in mine. I sank softly upon my
knees beside her.
'Dear Flora, I can keep the secret no longer:
Do not frown-do not despise me-I love you 1'
'Arise,' said Flora, in gentle accents; 'such
* posture does not become you.'
'Dearest, best of girls,  that my boldness
has not offended you!'
' Do I appear angry, Seward ?'
I   ited to hear'uo more.  I caught Flora to
my heart, and experienced the happiest moment
of my life.
I had found one heart to care for and love
me, and was no longer alone in the world. The
memory of that hour lingers yet. Sweet hour!
blessed remembrance.
The moon rode on in the skies and the stars
looked down and smiled. Never was night so

GILMORE, THE TRAPPER.

50

9

k

k


THE FOREST' FIEND.

S
r       '
z
i
f =
rrLF
S'
S ,t
A
a
C3
W
{e.
rt
K
f-
r
s
F
f
L.
f
i
t
I
s.
s

serene and beautiful. The stream murmured
drearmily along, and the flowers nodded in the
lightly whispering breezes. Flora was never so
sweet and fair ; her lips never smiled so pleas-
antly; her hair never curled so gracefully about
her face; her voice was never so musical.
With a kiss, and whispered words of fondness,
I tore myself from Flora.
'You're a brick-a perfect brick,' said a well
known voice, as I walked away.
'How long have you' been here ?' I 'asked,
somewhat annoyed.
' Long enough to see what I have seen,' he
replied, with provoking coolness. 'Courtin' by
moonlight ! courting' that uncommon cre tur!'
'No harm in it, I hope?',
'That is as it may be ; hard to tell! You're
a sly one, youngster.'
'Whore's Gilmore?'
'He's coming. '
The trapper made his appearance.
'I wish to speak to you both,' I said.
' Go ahead ; we're ready, replied Buston.
'Well, come this way. It's what gentlemen
call an 'affair of honor.'
'A fight?' said the hunter.  _
' A duel?' added Gilmore.
'You are both right.'
What weapons?'
Rifles!'
Rifles, of course,' said Buston. 'Pistols
aint fashionable heft. They might do among
your fine gentlemen, but they're of no account
with uJs.'
' What's it all about asked the trapper,
anxiously.
I gave them an account of what had taken
place between myself and Osborne. I had not
mentioned his name to them before.'
' Then you must fight the critter?' said Gil-
more thoughtfully.
'It cannot be avoided,' I answered.
There's but one way to get you out of the
scrape,' he added.
' How is that1?'
' Let me take your place.'
Ah, my friend, that will not o'

'You see you're a young man, Seward, and
ifanything unfortunate should happen, somebody
-I wont say who, might feel bad, and never
know no happiness arterwards. Not so with me,
by any means. The best days of my nateral
life are over., If I should go under, there
wouldn't be nobody to weep for me ; and you
see it wouldn't make a great deal o' difference
-in the long run. I'm  as willin' to die by a
rifle ball as any way, pervidin' my hour has
come.'
'Brass Eyes!' exclaimed Boston, grasping
the hand of the old trapper,' you're a brick I a
brick, and nothin' shorter.'
I took the other hand of the well me aning old
man.
'If to be a brick, as our eccentric friend has
called you, means to be all that is kind and
generous and noble, then do I agree with him
perfectly. Not for a world would I expose you
to danger. No, no ; your grey hairs are sacred ;
they shall never come between me and Osborne
to. save me, or to slay him, or both. I were in-
deed unworthy the name of a man to permit it.'
'Goodi youngster; you're a screamer!t I'll
back you agin any critter as is at large at this
present time.  ut let us come to some kind of
an understandin'.  Gilmore wants to fight for
you, and you wont listen to it on no account,
whatsomever ; that's jest as it ought to be.
Now I can prove to you in two ininits that I am
the individooal as ought to have the priverlege
of doin' the fightin'. Sich things come kin o'
nateral to me, you know, and I like 'em."I;
can't say that it aint morally out o' jint to stand'
up and fire at your. feller cretur, and run the
risk of losing' your own wind at the same time,
I wont stop to decide that question. I want
to fight this infernal Osborne, myself, Florry
Dale is an oncommon cretur, and I 'slould'nt'
want her to meet withno disappointment. Il
take my rifle on my shoulder airly in the inornin',
or jest at sunset, or jest as it happens to be
and go whistlin' to the place o' meeting ,  I
should'nt come back agin, let lorry keep Two
Forty, and use him well for hi master's sake.
That's about all T've got to say"

53-


BSLCK RALPH
ise chained my tongue  in the world ; and the object of its thoughts was
F ha   lomed for al goodness of Flora and Osborne.
Ihad not looked" for so much reag.hdtelttlttevre
heat    I had undervalued those rough spoken,  How heartily I-wished the atte.at the verge
r wof the Rocky Mountains, and even.to. a darker
ythano      or these offers of friendship, abode. The moment that the cup of happiness
ot earestly and sincerely, but I cannot ae- had been placed to my lips, it was likely to be
Sh        d to fight Osborne. I dashed away; for I might fall on the morrow,
epteu t      khem.Lave agree  o t  shall meet him  and leave all my new-born happiness behind.
feel  bound to ,e al eethi               ndlmy word.h.hrdt              i udray
at                                   ask is    I knew that it was hard to die under any
tai youwill go with me to the sp"t and, see circumstances,- but I felt that it was stilharder
tat al isconducted fairly.  If I fall, tell to die and leave Flora-much harder   an o
Flora I did not cease to think of her while I have fallen before I had spoken to her of lov
had ii-'I said in my heart:-
'If Iedont tell her that, and twice as much  Man-is born to affliction.  He is blown to
I be   tn u   b catamounts,' an- and fro like a leaf upon the winds. His life is
erd yBuston.                                 a thing of chance and change. That wh
swRuston.'n-s -as-evdes him a.When he
'Baston you're quite a critter,' said Gilmore. seems in his grasp evads hit nothe is pur-
'Nw my friends, I shall lie down and try segks for happiness,
S     I shall be suing a shadow.'
e Sleep.M Before the     is upMy thoughts grew confused aridincoherent, at
e    wont fa  replied the trapper  Before length.
t  sun rises we shalliedbthe  you.          But sleep came not like a friend to set it seal
th   un  re me mb sh e esyi s e wo rd,' I  ad-  upon  m y  heavy  lids':  it  came  as  an  oppressive
d.  r   m     snightmare-to make me more xraiserable.
ded."d..'b.th fire                                                        I asked myself
'Al unersood bo,'answered Gilmore.     I arose and "sat "by, the',fire. I askdm el
AlTunderstood, boy,' ng e Gwhre I might be to-morrow night at that hour'?
Thus we parted for the night.             Is man an immortal being, destined to survive f
HAPTER          IX               the destruction of the body ?
TH E DUEL.                    At that moment my eyes fell upon a pocket
HEN I returned to Dale's cabin,     ble lying upon a shelf. I was impelled to
Athur had not yet retired. He was stretch forthmy han ds ndet my gae-- e
sitting by the fire, waiting for me.  t                        t be-
Ihave been anxious on your account,' he ' There is hope of a tree if it be cut don
said  'I feared your love of star-gazing had that it will sprout again, and that the r
carried youtoo far from the cabin, and into dan- branch thereof will no cease. Though  t stk
You must leave offwandering away alone thereof wax  l in    e et,        the scentk
50 oen. You   areavwellaware that such moon, thereof die  the ground; yet through the scent
.ghtheecurions are not safe.'             of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like
'ierobably the boundaries of my life were a plant  But man dieth, and wasteth; yea,U
' Frbaby te bundriesof  y lfe  p                           e  ?  As
actogago' I answered  I must live until man giveth up.the ghost, and where is    s
time comes, and die when it has arrived.' , the waters fail from  the sea, and the flondd-
A    very comforting belief, certainly,' re- cyeth and deth up; so mabnlh mor ta
plied Arthur.                                iehnt      iltehaeb       e nou moe they
'It is time to lie down to our dreams,' said I, shall not awake, nor be raise  ouaf hi
We stretched ourselves before the blazing sleep.-               '     'h
e. Arthur was soon in a profound sleep ; but  I laid the book aside with a iohati   r
not so with me ;my mind wass never so busy     Death tben is a sleep-  Wltaisbte

TIU9! FOft° ST'.FIND.

thane the fire that dieth not. Better to sleep
eternally, than to suffer eternal condemnation.
The reader may perhaps deem me weak and
cowardly, to indulge in such thoughts ; but
weak and cowardly Iam not. rIt is natural for
man to think of such subjects,"when death seems'
near.
To sa y that I feared'to meet Osborne, would
do me great injustice ; for there is nothing
craven in my nature. You may call this avow-
al egotistical;' but I affirm  that it is not; my
own heart acquits me of the charge. Hard
would it fare with him to-day, who should call
me a coward, although my nature has lost some-
thing of its fire,, and the hot quick blood -of
youth has cooled into the -sober currents of'
manhood.
Where is the person who can lay down to die
in the possession of his senses, without asking if
he has within him the germs of an immortal
lifei;  This is not all. He will ask if there is a
God to whom he is accountable for the deeds
done in the body'?
I o not speak .of a man as having -these
peculiarities when he is convulsed with anger ;
for then he gives such thoughts to the winds,'
and rusheth to death as the horse to battle.
I heard a gentle' tap upon, the door.   I
stepped to it, ' Who in there '
'Gilmore,' said a voice.-
,Is it time'?' I asked, as I opened-the door.
By no means ; I thought I'd come to see
you once more, and perhaps you'd think better
on t  The fact is Ive been talkin' with some
' the settlers about this critter you call Os-
borne. They say he's a dead shot, lie can I
snuff a candle at two hundred yards, or split a
ball on the edge of a knife, and think nothin'
 it ,
'It can't be helped,' said I.
They say he's a quarrelsome, unprincipled
critter, and his death would'nt be nio loss to
nolmdy   liehas fouigat duels afore; and rifles
are terrible things to stand u) afore, and be
_afeet y  steady.  It requires narve,  ian.
Now you knpw I'm a good shot. Two Shooter
never refuss fire, and I never miss my mark ;

the consequence is; nothing' can stand'afore me!
aid live. Pont you take, myeboy t
'My excellent, disinterestei f,  facrifici
friend ! if I knew thet Osborne wchld'snd two
balls through my heart, I would  ot fbrfeity
word, or suffer you to take my  1tce' I an
swered, earnestly and withfeeling.°
'Are-you a pretty good shot?'
''Tolerable.  Yo have.b seen sdme of my
shooting.
' Yes, I saw the Inginfall down ndiad all of a
sudden; and I've seen you blaze aWkay at wild
critters with good success
' I will show you what I can a if you think
best,' I replied.
'Get a candle, if you can find  sclia luxury
in these digging.'     -            -
I stepped- into the cabin and ha  e good
fortune to find one without awaking Arthur I
then followed the trapper. We alked about
three quarters of a mile from the -settlementee
fore we stopped. Gilmore then lighted tie
candle and fastened it upon a;map  limb. let
then paced off two hundred yards..
' Now, youngster, see if - you can snuff that
candle ?'
'That'srather too nice' shooting,' I replied.
Nothin'like trying'  Straghten up and let,
flyResol-ving to do  the  best I  could I  took  de-
deliberate aim and fired.
' You've:missed it!' said Gilmore.
We hastened to examine the tree in front of
which the candle was bu-ning.
' It went about-two inighes wide of the mark.
Not bad. Let sliver again.'
I reloaded and fired again with better suc-
cess--the ball passing within- an inch of the
blaze.
SI'm not used to shooting by moonlight' I
do better by daylight.'
' Never mind, you're gamin' upon it.'d-
I've tried twice;, now its your turn
'My nerves are not over aid above steady
o-night, but I dont care it' I try my handa t it
once: Come, Two Shooter, look at that blze.
The old trap r brought the 'hreich o


BL CK '1ALPU

rifle to his shoulder, with the muzzle de-
essed. He raised it steadily;, the instant it
upon the mark, he fired.   The candle
flared, flickered a moment, and burned up again.
'I'might have snuffed it a sixteenth of an inch
closer,' said the trapper, cooly, as he proce ed-
ed to charge his empty barrel.
The candle which burned faintly at first,
streamed up brightly. Gilmore stood perhaps
four feet from me. While I was preparing to
fire again, a ball went whistling between us, and
the light of the candle disappeared. Every
person who has heard a ball go hissing by them,
know what a peculiar ringing it makes.
I said that a rifle ball went whistling between
the trapper and myself; suchI believed it to be
at that moment, but what was very singular, I
heard no sound to indicate that a gun had been
discharged.
Full of Surprise and curiosity, we hastened to
examine our target.  About half its diameter
below Gilmore's shot, was another, which in its
assagehad severed the blazing wick close down.
The trapper grew pale as he laid his finger
upon the spot where -the ball had struck.-
'If the devil ain't at large this year, it's my
humble opinion he'll never visit the airth. You
observe that two balls have gone into this tree;
but they hav't made but one hole, though it
has gone half its thickness below the other. The
question is how did it get there'? Do you know?
Do 1 know'?   Does anybody know ?    It was
fired from a rifle I  But whose rifle was it'?
Who fired it? I'm dumb-founded and used up'?
Say sunthin'!i  Put your finger in my eye f
Prick me with your hunting' knife, and see if I'm
awake'
It's certainly very mysterious,' I replied.
It's Black Ralph, or the devil ' said Gil-
more.
Or both.'
' When, rifle balls git to flyin' about without
any powder, it's time to give up the business of
huntin' and trappin'. It's hard to tell where
ballswill hit when nthey git to 1e their own
masters. I gaess we'd better be a travellin'
towards the settlementt"

'By no means. I am not at all disturbed or
alarmed, although I frankly own that I am
astonished beyond .measure. Light the candle,
and I will try my luck for the third time.'
The trial proved successful. The wick was
severed, although, not in so perfect a manner as
Gilmore had peformed the feat. t
Capital!' he exclaimed.  'Do as well as
that to-morrow mirain', and there'll be one
scoundrel the less.'
We shouldered our rifles and returned to the
settlement. I was silent and thoughtful, and
the friendly trapper was oppressed with gloomy
forebodings.
The hours of darkness rolled away. Before
the sun had reddened the east, we were -.on the
way to the meadow. Gilmore and I walked,
along together, while Buston followed, leading
Two Forty.,
'I thought I would take the cretur along, as
he might be wanted if you should take any blue
pills for breakfast,' said! Buston.  ' I never got
into but two or three sich scrapes myself. I
kept perfectly cool, an4 let fly as soon as the
word was given, for dinner was waitin'. I
shan't forgit it very soon for I had a tearin' ap-,
pertite.'
'What became of your antagonist'?'
'He died of a broken heart !'
The sun was rising when we reached the ap-
pointed spot ; and the dew was yet upon the
grass.
Osborne was no where in sight ; but in an
instant he stepped from the thicket near "_s,
He, wasnot alone.  A large, powerful tqauwas
with him. I recognized in him the stranger who
visited us at night. I ould not disguise, my
surprise at seeing him.
'It is the same as caught us napping,' said,
the trapper. . ' I'm sorry to see the critter here.
He wont do us no good.'
The parties approached. I saw the stranger's'
eye fastened upon me for a moment; after that
he appeared to notice me no more.
He and Gilmnore now stepped aside and con-.
versed together~ confidentially; for a moment.
During the time they were thus opgaged, Osborne

E

THE FUR
lighted his pipe and be n to smoke. I turned
my back upon him aff looked toward the spo
where I had.leftflora. At that very momen
she might be dream  'g of me. I looked toward
the east. The sun was fairly above the lowes
range of hills, and glowed fiery red. The dew
upon the branches of the trees glistened lik
' diamonds. The lark was up already, and the
robin was singing his morning bsong
Pleasing sounds from flowing waters and sigh
ing Winds saluted my ear.
How joyous and smiling were all things that
fell beneath my vision.
How delightful it would be to meet Flora there
on such a morn. I might never meet her in
this quiet meadow.
'Have you said your prayers?' asked Osborne,
ironically.
'Save your .own soul!I' retorted Buston.
The youngster ain't got no sins of any conse-
quence to repent on. He worked out his salva-
tion last night, while you was sleegin'.'
There's enough of the devil in him to damn
a dozen men,' replied Osborne, contemptuously.
'There's enough o' the 4tif in him to shake
you out of your moccasiasnor to strangle you
like a dog,' returned Buston.
'Or to sntff the candle of your life,' said.
Gilmore, who now approached.
' It'sarranged at fifty yards,' le added.
That's a long distance,' answered Osborne.
'You'll find it near enough,' replied the
trapper significantly.
The ground was measured off.
The principals will take their places,' said'
J]ustom.
'I can't stand there,' said Osborne, ' the sun
will shine directly into my face. I'm not going
to be ahotin that way.'
The ground was measured off in another di-
rection.  We took our places. The rifles were
loaded and placed in ouir hands.
' Be perfectly cool,' said Gibniore, ashe gave
me the deadly weapon. 'fDont be in too much
of a hurry about firing . Be steady, and your
shot will tell when you do fire.'

EIST  FIEND.                             57
d    If I should fall, tell Flora that I blessed her
t with my dying breath.'
t I glanced towards my antagonist.
I He had thrown Away his pipe and stood there
t straight as an arrow, and calm as a statue.
' 'Are'you ready ?' iaid Buston.
e ' All ready.'
'I will count three, and when I say three,
fire.'
'One.'
I thought of Flora.
' Two.'
I raised my rifle slowly.
' Three.'
Both of our rifles cracked at the same time.
Osborne over-shot, and I heard the ball whistle
over my head. I looked quickly towards him
to see if he was hit. He stood for the space of
half a minute without moving or speaking. He
then staggered a step andfell.
The danger was past.
' He's got it said Buston.
.Good !' exclaimed Gilmore.
The stranger raised him up, and searched for
the wound. It was in the left side, near the
heart.
'Leave us,' said the stranger. 'I will take
care of him. He wont want care a great, while,
probably.'
II returned thoughtfully to the. .settlement;
but my companions were in high glee.
I met Flora, and her smiles dispelled a por-
tion of the gloom the adventures of the morning
had left upon my mind.
'I have discovered your secret,' said Arthur,
before the day had expired. ,' Gilmore hsabe-
trayed you. Why did you not confide the whole
to me ?'
From motives of kindness,' I replied. 'If
I had fallen, you would have reproached your-
self, and made yourself unhappy, because you
were concerned ii' it.'
'But I would have insisted on taking. your
place.'
' It would hive been of no avail ; I should
have remained firm.'
Flora overheard this conversatie, andI was


compelled tprelate all that had lapponed in re-
lation to the meeting with Osborne. She gave'
me a look of=gentlegpropch, aud said in a low
voice:
'Wet if you   d been killed!'
' Leaving Fg  ywouldhave been the b terest.
ingredient in the cup of death,' I anu pred int
the same.tene.
CHAPTER X.
AN ADVENTURE
HOUGH the events of the morning still
hung likea darkYcloud over my mind's
horizon, the evening that followed passed
away very pleasantly,
Story telling was again resorted to. Dale re-
lated the following.
IrWas 3lte fist.man who felled a t-re-in this
tart of tlhe country, said the old mant' It has
been my fortune ,0,etperiefe esome hardship
in trying to make a home here in the wilderness.
It was rather a bold ;push er a man of .m.yage,
to venture so far into the backwoods, I know;-
but 'Iam constitutionally bold. Nothing can
'daubt tne.  As for bears,uIndians and panthers,
I care but little about them. But I ought to
think of Flora, Isuppose. The poor girl isn't
used to siteh a=life:  I 'wish it was place of
greater security on her account, heaven.:'knows.
If I ever leave here, and it is iot at allunlikely,
it will be together out' of 'har a's way. -.They
eay there'ar-excellent lau1i nea Salt Lake, up
therewhere the Moimon: ettleiient is.  If one
was once there with then °le Would be come par-
atielyhafe. But Iam getting away from my
story  Yog all .know,6 or aught to, in order
to understand what I am telling; that I am pas-
sionately fond of hunting; and it is not always
safe to-be  ut .alone  Things havn't changed
-ti li 1orthe beater since'i hate'b e here.-
(n the whole they rather grow worse. "Exel-
lent hunting grounds are these.  Thero are' a
grdatnnaiyheonveniences, it is true,tbut one
gets in a measure accustomed to them. There
is bne thitg abouti it; We are nut troubled with
any neighbors ; that is excejpttb hdiafis.
1ell,.biig"fiiid of iiniting,'I iied to take

my rifle and dog, and pass the whole day in the
woods,.and nothing suisiW  ne .hter.  Boxer,
you know, is a fine large     , ,apd abynt as
knowing as a man.  He       c en the -pgrstant
companion of my peregrinations in the wilder-
negs. There are few anim ls that he:fe rs, and
lie has been very useful to me, firstand last.--
He can scent an Indian asfer as he can a bic
bear or a panther.  Now I cannot say thatzJam
afraid of a red man, but I give thein plenty -f
room when I can.  But there are wild animals
about as much to be dreaded as the Inianins.
the panther, for instance, is an ugly eustoiner,
full of cunning and malignity. .'I ha a ac-
venture with one of those animals I never shall
forget. I had been hinting allday, and began
to feel tred and somewhat discouraged withal,
for I had not been very successful. -I stood on
the margin' of a small lake, which lies about
south-west from here.  It had lg" a finesday.
The sun was just bidding the western wilderness
good night.; While E leaned upon my rifle,
musing, thebenms *f the sinking sun ceased'to
gild the peaks of the far distant mounlains.-
The night was fair, upon me. Old' Boner lay
quietly at my feet
I started from my reverie, for I was sonie
miles from here.
Conie, Boxer, 'it's time to be going towards,
the settlement.'
Boer sprang up and wagged his t, as
much as to .say .
'I'm ready if you are.'
I shouldered my i fli, and' walked swiftly
along the margin of ine- lake.  I hadgone
about twentyyards we, a ,shriek $.loud and
piercing that it made me shudder,,wasborney to
my e~re., It fame;from the other side .,of the
lake, and resembled athe shrill, ,artling cry. of
a woman in distress; butmore pitepis angd op-
rible far.  r
Boxer uttered a lop , discontented whinse, and
pressed as close to m4 as possible. This was
uncommon conduct foru him'; for hewas iot
easily frightened, Iampwilling to owl that I
was niot perfectlyunnmoveil myself. '*Thatsbriek
sent the blood tingling tth~e en'd 'of mnyIfuiger'
I knew very well Whatkind a thrtaftt ta i

M. U

THE FORIEIST FIEND.

earthly sound came from. I had heard it be-
fore, but not often,and never when alone ; and
I hid heard old hunters afflirta that they could
successfully imitate the screams of a woman.
Not knowing What else to do, I quickened
my pace, hoping, the distance :between me Lnd
the animal being so great, that I could reach
the settlement in safety. But I had gone only
a few steps when I heard the panther set up a
frightful yelling, exactly opposite, me, as be-
fore.
'I made a 'full stop,' as the school master
used to say, to consideriwhat to do next.
'We'll try it once more, Boxer,' I said to
my canine companion, and then pushed forward
gain. This'time perhaps I went twenty rods
before I heard the savage beast cry out again;
and he seemed to be a little ahead of me. '
'This would'nt, of course, answer, because it
could'nt be a great while before we should meet
at that rate.
'I turned again and walked faster than ever,
but with no better success, and with hardly so
good ; for the creature was obviously impatient,'
and was resolved to make the circuit of the lake.
I thought at first that I would now walk away
from the lake as rapidly as possible:; but a mo-
ment's reflection: ade me abandon :this idea ;
for when the panther had once gotten upon the
side of the lake where I then was, he could ea-
sily overtake me ; hence my only chance of es-
cape seemedto be in keeping'the water between
us.
There was no time to lose ; so I changed
my " direction once more  The lake is about
three miles long, and there was a pretty' good
chance for a run; so;I started and ran about a
mile or more in a way that showed thatI was in
a hurry, I assure you. During this time I heard
not a single sound;' and that silence was more
ominous than: any thing else, because I could
not tell where my enemy was, and I feared he
might come upon 1ne of a sudden. But when
U had gone the distance I have named- -'and I
wasn't long about it-I' heard the blood-
thirsty animal cry out again, and on this occa-
iron it came from the extremte end of the pod;

he had not changed his course when I did, and
the truth that he was gaining on me could not
be concealed or lost 'sight of.
When the water was no 'longer betweeri us,
how long would it take him to overtake me-t-
Not long certainly. What was to be done noir?
I knew not what to-do, and so I kept on as fast
as my limbs would carry me.
My particular sensations:it will not be neces-
sary to attempt to describe ; if any ofyou have
been in a similar situation, you know. something
about it ; otherwise you do not. A rman may
be brave, and" a good hunter, and all!that, yet
not feel exactly comfortable with -a catanount
after him. Such a-state of things gives one an
unpleasant sensation of being torn in piecesand
eaten alive. If 'you imagine for the shortest
possible space of time that, I didn't run, you
labor under a mistake ; for Two Forty could'Tht
have done much better,
On I went, and on came the-panther,of course.
All at once he shrieked again; but that wasn't
all ; his terrible cry was answered by another
of his species in the opposite direction, which
was directly before me. - So there was danger
behind meand: danger before me. 'Well, what
did I do then ?  I stood-still for the space:of
four minutes. -During that time a dreadful hor-
ror of being eaten by panthers seized'me: I
fancied I heard the cracking of the dry sticks
and leaves; their low angrygrowls; the gnabh-
ing of their terrific teeth ; that I felt their hot
breath' in my face ; that they were tearing my
flesh; that' the bones were being crushed.
I shuddered with unmitigated horror.; A
happy thought darted through my,, brain. I
would limb a tree! Yes, I could climb atreet 1
and be comparatively safe.
But there was Boxer, my old friend ant eon-
panion ; what was to become of him?-  Shod
I desert him who *had neveredeserted =me? 2Oie
who would'flgbt:for'me"to the last gasp:of4ii?
Would that not be a base and: cowardly 'ati6
Poor Boxer!' It seenned to" me selfish 'and
cruels to leaves him. H~is lighting blood now
seemed to be getting aroused.
He began to walk around runakieg'the


THE .FOREST,FIEND.                    61

60                    BLACK ALPB

hair stand straight upon his back, and emitting
low, threatening growls.
' Are they coming, old Boxer?' asred I.
Boxer wagged his tail, and looked anxiously
into my face as though he understood me; and
I know he did.
Are they near ?' I asked again.
He put his large .nose upon the earth, and
snufied as if to find out.
A very tall sycamore stood close behind me,;
but at a little distance, were others quite as
elevated.
'Take to the water, Boxer,' I said, pointing
to the lake; 'into the drink  with you, old
friend, and I'll look out for myself.'
The creature seemed to comprehend me in a
moment. He walked round and round the
tree until I had got up some distance, and
didn't appear to take it hard that I was leav-
ing him.
Hark I what was that?    Boxer heard it;
it was the sound of an animal in rapid motion.
I heard i.:distinctly ; and on it came, bound af-
ter bound, clearing a goodly space at a leap.
The dog continued to walk round the tree, occa-
sionally looking up to see how it fared with me,
and how fast I ascended. He wagged his tail
asiifto encourage me to persevere ; and seemed
anxious on my account more than on-his own.
' Into the water, Boxer, good fellow !' Iecried,
I'in safe enough now.'
Boxer made the circumference of the tree
once more, then sprang out into the lake, and
swam several rods from the shore, taking a po-
Asition,-where he could see me and watchmy
movements ,keeping his shaggy head just above
water, which he did with little or no effort.
All was silent again ; I heard no bounding
pounds ; nocracking of the sticks ; no rustling
of the: leaves. There was something dreadful
to me in that silence. I dont know why it was
dreadful to me unless I was impressed by way
ofpresentiment ; for I believe when danger. is
really ;impending, the person in jeopardy -is
often nmade sensible of it in a way lhe cannotl
account for- Mank is, a curious creature, I as
date gotrt; and I have found it so.- Just at thai

moment the moon came up in full orbed splendor
and looked mildly down unpn the lake and the
great forest. I was glad to see it ; for I need-
ed light on the subject, sorely.
But where were my enemies ? I will tell you
where one of them was ; he came down with a
tremendous bound, within two rods of the syca-
rmore among whose branches I was lodged. He
snuffed the - air a moment, and then crouched
down like a cat. Hewas a monstrods beast,
and ugly enough be looked as he lay there
lashing the ground with his long tail. Saint
Peter, what an enormous paw he stretched out ;
and what a tongue he displayed. And- that
was not all; he exhibited two rows of terrible
teeth. Did I have a peculiar tingling sensa-
tion in my flesh about that time of night, or did
I not, or what was it?
I knew there was strength enough in one of
those paws to rend a dozen men in an instant
of time ; and how easily those large jaws could
crush the bones.
I will fix you, my lad,' said I to myself,
for I felt quite secure up there. Before I had
commenced climbing, I, had been :careful to
lash my trusty rifle to  my back, as, you
will readily suppose. After I had located my-
self firmly between two large branches, I disen-
gaged it, examined the pruning, and satisfied
myself that it was in first rate order.
About in the centre of the animal's breast,
there wasa small round white spot. I rested
my rifle upon a i6nb, and took beautiful aim at
that spot; and a nice mark it was, but my nerves
shook a little, despite all my self control. I
did not pull the trigger_; something seemed to
tell me not to, and to restrain:me.
Boxer who had hitherto been perfectly quiet
now howled furiously,,of a sudden. I looked
at him and perceived that he was gazing intent-
ly and; anxiously upward into another tree, a
few yards from, that which I had climbed. I
turned my eyes in that direction. also. Good
Heavens,! what a sensation I experienced'!-.
what a shiver of horror ran through my frame
-Crouched upon a short, stout limb, that extsud-
t ed out towards my place of fancied scuriy,

S
A
f
1
i
F
F
11
G+
_
Y
L
3
=T
X
4
t
Z
3
1
t
i

was the other panther ! a  more ugly looking
monster, if possible, than the first. His fire
eyes were fixed upon me with a peculiar long-'
ing, savage expression; and his paws were
placed in the attitude of springing. It was a
critical moment. I felt for the first time the
full sense of the imminent peril of my position.
I had hitherto, lost sight of the fact that a
panther is the most agile and cat-like of all ani-
mals, capable of climbing a tree, and of leaping
from one tree to another.
But the horror of my position did not have the
effect to unman me; it acted like a powerful
tonic, although if you could have seen me at
that instant, with the moonbeams shining down
upon my face, a pale visage you would have
beheld. Strange what a habit the blood has
of receding from the face in a moment of dan-
ger; where does it go, I wonder ?  But it's
about the panther I'm talking.'
'Go it, Bricks,' said-Buston, somewhat em-
phatically.
If you never saw a panther's tongue, you
ought to, especially when he is excited ; it re-
minds me of the deadly fangs of a serpent; such
venomous creatures as I have read about,
and sometimes seen. Seeing an Indian com-
ing at you full of fight and fury, is nothing to
that.'
'Please dont keep this cretur springin' so
long, old Gunpowder,' interrupted the hunter.
' I will not dwell upon it longer, for I feel
myself incapable of describing the scene, and
my own sensations at the time. At'the crisis,
when all appeared. lost, with a wonderful self-
possession (which I cannot account for) I pulled
trigger, upon the panther. ' Lhe very second
that I fired, and I may say simultaneous with
the act, he made a mighty bound, straight to-
wards me. His long body struck upon the
limb upon which I stood, broke it short offclose
to my feet, and then went crashing downward
to the earth.'
'Did he stop when he got down?' asked
Buston.'
' When he reached the ground there was'nt
life enough in him to shake his great body with
a single convulsion.'

'You might put it all in your eye, and not
have it hurt you, I spose,' added the hunter-
'What next? Explode, Gunpowder!'
'I took a long breath!' resumed Dale.
'From  your heels up'ards, probably,' con-
tinued Buston.
'I took a long breath, thanked God-..'
'Stop,.old feller ! you'd ought a waited a bit
'till you'd disposed o' the other varmint. My
father used to tell me never to crow 'till I got
out o' the woods. What difference would it a
made to you which o' the varmints had you for
his supper?'         I
'Not much, certainly,' replied Dale, good
humoredly, ' but I always think it best to be
grateful when the Father of mercies seems to
befriend us in a particular manner.'
'If having' two catamnounts arter you is being'
befriended, I should'nt care about bein' be-
friended ; that's a mercy I-should'nt want to be
the father on,' said Buston, seriously.
'The other panthe-, when he saw the fate of
his companion, uttered frightful yells, and tore
up the ground with his long claws, and old Box-
er made a triumphant splashing in the" water,
and barked gloriously to celebrate my success.
' All understood ; Boxer was takin' a bath
while you was takin' an airin' above. Proba-
bly he never had his feet soaked so we l 'nce
he was a pup. Wasn't his general healt1tier
arter it?'
'I should'nt wonder if my hand shook a little
when I poured the powder into it for the next
charge, put the ball--
'Would'ntit do jest as well to load it up all at
once, and not keep the other cretur waitin' at the
root of the tree ?  If it will be any help to you,
we'll imagine you've got the ball drove home,
and are all primed and cooked; but I'd advise
you to take a short aim.'
'Yes, I was all-ready-to fireand-'
' Let sliver!'
' No, I did'nt1 you are wrong there. All
at once the creature leaped all of fifteen feet
into the air--a few migihty-spasms shook his
frame, and to all appeg.eshe was dead.'
' You did'nt say wbethqi   ~ ,~4w   ut
o' the air again,' added Butoua


BLACK MLPII
'That was an oversight he did come down tiers have resolved to abandon this pa  of
and never leaped again. I looked earnestly country, and proceed towards the Great Salt
about me for the cause of what I "had seen. Lake.'
Once I imagined, through a vista in the trees,   3, it is so. What think you of the.en-
I saw what seemed to my astonished eyes like a terprisew?' l a     d     s      n
horse and rider ; but that could npt have been  'That                ditiomngle
it was more like some dark and swiftly that you will improve your condition but little.
oving shadow than realhorse or real rider. It Does he think to oin the Mormons n.
melted away like a phantom or a dream, upon       y   7
t n of the lake and I    .saw it no more.' They think of forming a settlement on, or near,
the marginfth    ak  ,ud    swi    ooe        y
'Had you ever heard of Black Ralph then?' Utah Lake.'
adde Gimoreanesly.' That's close by the Mormon settlement. It's
added -Gilmore, earnestly.
'I had heard that there' was such a being ; a long way there, Flora.'
d     or what-   'Ah es ! it is along way ; but I am willing
-lhat he had been seen, man jardevil, o wye
ever he is or was, riding like the wild huntsman to go with my father.'
over mountain and plain, through wood, and    'And leave me.
through wild. I could not believe the animal  ' You can go with us.   Why shold, you
was really dead until old Boxer springing fiom stay ?',
the water, flew at him  and commenced tearing  'Sure enough, why should I stay?  I must
- h                                     o to protect my girl to die in her defence, if
out his hair hy mouthful.                   g ,0,d                             a    l
' It was the work of Black Ralph,' added need require. But it is a long an weary pil-
"  ,                                a I-ust said, and, my heart fears for
More, ' 'and when ,e have all said that, we grimage,.a
s          rthe result. Since I have known you and loved
caa% say no more.'d                                                       fo   h first
' Iagee with you'repliedDale.  Of course ou-and Flora, It have loved you rom
'agree. withfyoutrep    6.er*                                               that
was perplexed and confounded. I examined -----I have felt that there was somethig
ohis sid  d e found a miht be worth living for. When upon that
e beast as he lay upon  aie, an           .g
 w '                         brigt, clear night I became so bold, and said
small wound,--                                g                           goher*that
In the left breast?' added he trapper.  so many strange things, and among terat
]xaetig.   It was like thewound of a rifle I loved you, I felt more than ever that there
ball; but te animal had received its death in was something hat mght render life pleasant
silenoce,  there .bad: beemno soul4 that I arid happy. I .m salfih ;I do not ish yon to
eo ld hea t jecate that sTrifleor any kind beyexposed to dangerfor fear I may,1pse you
of fire arms had been used.'               when .ife:would .beyoe a burden .
'hats ather an .nreasonableistory, begin' upon the many evils hat may befall you in mour.
yu par o   for the liberty I tale in a n' no, eying to Utah Lak ''
-p't.h "o Y                                                  hthe same hand
sa d Bastoahaomie4leer.                 '     'I-have rho  htef;   buttheme"h
erha's he ;never owned d. 4ogwth three that keeps me here ,can preserve me there. The
P  retorted'.nil ore-  ':-r        settlers believe we ah 14 dwell in comparative
The hunter knooked the ashes fro, ahispipe, safety there.'
and commenced filling it ,gain in silence:     I  o nob  .Bt  there is a' spot that,
should like tofind,. somewhere in the, wide
HA P     T E R  XI.          worl.'
TE    inNING.           '       Ddscribe it, Reward1'
SHE following conversation, between Flora 'Well, listen. The spot that I refer to
IIand myself, oeourred a few days after the would be something like this. It should be in
Yor father   a  inormed me, that the set~ tions  There should be great hils on asd

,4

THE' FOREST FIEND.

but one, and on that side there should be a
narrow and delightful entrance. The hills that
embosom this spot should be covered with trees
of noble growth. I will not name the different
kinds, but they should all be green and comely.
You perceive that the place would be a deep
valley. A  small crystal stream  should pass
through it, and find its way out somewhere, I
don't know how; but its banks should be luxi
uriantly verdant. All kinds'of flowers, -lerbs
and grasses should bud, bloom, &amp;nd grow up-
its . banks ; and the clear, sparkling waters
should make a dreamy murmuring sound, as
they went onward. Fish should be there also;
nice, speckled trouts, perch, and shiners. The
valley should be beautifully clad in green, for
I should want no winter there, and birds whose
songs are sweetest should sing without getting
weary.
Not far from the stream there "should be a
cottage, and  the graceful willow and the sweet
rentedd thyme, and the wild sage should luxu-
riate in the genial soil around it. Creeping
vines should run over the roof, and insinuate
"themselves into every nook and granny, and
hang upon every projecting corner. This same
spot should be a garden of Eden.' I would be
the Adam-and-and Flora Dale should-
should be my Eve.'
Kind reader, would it not be well for you to
believe that f spoke' the last, words in a veryJ
soft voice'?  Would it not be proper to suppose
also, that a certain young person blushed?
Go it, Cattridge Box !
I dropped Flora's hand ania turned toward
the intruder with a scowl of displeasure. My
eyes fell upon Buston and Two 'Forty.
I beg the oncommon cretur's pardon,' he
said ; 'I did'nt- expect' to find you here ; but
there's no tellin' where folks 'll be found  -
days. No harm done I hope '
None at all,' replied Flora, laughing.
If young Gun Flint here, aint no objections
I'm going to make you an offer, marm.'
r'Well, I'a gn' tosa to omonFor-

clean to the Great Lake, or to the end of the
world, if she wants to.'
'A kind and generous offer, truly. I thank
you and will consider the subject. I should
not like to deprive you of your horse, so good
a one too.'
'That's the' very reason why I want you to
have him; he's the only horse livin' as is is fit
to carry you on his' back. He'll nake nothin'
o' your light figure, and I raly believe the ore-
tur likes to have you ride him. Two Fort
you see, is an oncommon boss, and you're an
uncommon Florry; now you understand my
meani''
You flatter me, and I am pleased with it,'
answered the maiden, and she forthwith stretch-
ed out her hand to the hunter, who seemed
almost afraid to touch it with' his hard, rough
fingers ; he did manage, at length Ito 'ust 'touch
he fai little and'; but he didit so respectfully,
and appeared to feel it such an honor, that I
could not help forgiving his intrusion, and show-
ing that; I took his offers-kmdl as well as
Flora.
I will now pass over a period of time. The
reader will imagine that we have left the settle-
ment upon the Red Fork, and are en route for
the Great Salt Lake. There were about 'tei-
ty of us, children and females included?  The
baggage wagons   are drawn by rules and
horses, and make quite a picturesque appear.
ance as they wind along on their devious way.
Flora rides Two forty, and Buston is never a
great way off, mounted upon the animal which
formerly belonged to Prairie Wolf.
I shall not enter into the detailsof travelling
i  the West. They are well knowanto thoe
who have read Irving's 'works, and followed
Bonneville and Fremont in their wandeing. .
Long is the way, slow'and toilsome" our rnove-
ments.
But I am writing my adventures and tie ad-
ventures of those most intimately, conugeted
with me ;.therefore I shall not relate the his-
We have passed Mt. Rabn     th  'aiish


64                                BLACK
South Park, the Old Park, and the kind reader
will now find us comfortably encamped upon
White river; at its junction with the Rio Colo-
rado.
If you look for me you will find me seated on
the bank of the last mentioned river. At no
great distance from  me you will perceive the
smoke of our fires curling up through the trees ;
you will observe also that the sun is just setting
and his last beams are seen upon the tops of the
mountains.
I am thinking of Flora; how could I live
without her, and how dear she grows to me
every day.    .    .    .    .    .   And
it happened as I sat musing, that I heard foot.
steps. I looked up to see who came, and the
strange visitor at night.-Osborne's second-
stood before me.
I gazed at him with profound astonishment.
Again we meet,' he said, slowly.
'So it seems.'
'What do you here ?'
'Whatever pleases me. What do you do?'
'What you would not dare do.'
,That cannot be true.'
Why not ?'
'Because I fear not to do what other men
dare.'
'You have an excellent opinion of yourself,
'young man.'
'That concerns nobody but myself. What is
your business with me?'
I have come to warn you of approaching
danger.'
'Judging from the position you occupied
when I last met you, I should suppose you
would not be the man to warn me of danger.'
Judge not from appearances, in all cases,
young man.'
Is Osborne dead ?'
'Osborne is living.'
Is it possible?'
I have said it.'
~ hat is your namie V
'You are inquisitive, young man.'
f What is your name?'
'Yen may call me Forrester, for want of a-
bettor.

RALPH

' I think you said you had come to warn me
of approaching- danger. I am ready to hear
you. '
'You dont seem to be in the best of humor.'
'As good as usual. I doubt your good
faith.'
'That is natural. Ingratitude is the most
common of sins.'
* Why do you speak of ingratitude?. What
do I: owe you in the way of gratitude ?'
'More thanyou are aware of, perhaps. You
should be-grateful that I have sought you to
tell you to be on your guard-that danger is
lurking near you.'
'Convince me that such is your object, and I
will not cease to be grateful; but as I have said,
I doubt you.'
'Well, doubt on; I like your frankness.'
'I wish I could say that I like you, or any.
thing about you.'
'No matter whether you like or not. I can
live without you better than you, aan without
me.
'I have got along thus far very well without
any of your help, and I dare say I shall con-
tinue to.'
'Very good ; be as independent as you like.;.
it is all the same te me. What I wish to say to
you is this : Before the sun is twenty four hours
older, you will be in great danger ; perhaps
death will be- the result; perhaps not; it de-
pends much on yourself. If you heedwhat I
say to you, it is very probable that you will
escape; if you disregard mycoansel, there}are
two chances of degteto ene of escape.'
'Is that all?'   {
'No ; Flora is also in peril.'
Flora?'
Yes, .blora!  That name seems to dispel
apathy.'
'Forrester-if that indeed be your name-I
beg of you to syeak to me more plainly, if you
really mean whatyou say, and have the remo-
test wish to befriend me.'
I uttered these words with great earnestness,
and looked searchingly at the tall, powerful man
before me-.
'I have touched the right chord at last,

ut
T
r
:
.S
A
e
u
t
t
a
,
i
[
b
:
#  f
c
Y

THE FORE
said he, with a smile. 'There i magic in' he
name of Flora.'
'For me there is, stranger, I confess.'
'Well, I think no worse of you' for that.
There is magic in her eyes, also, as well as- in
her name, and 'a dangerous kind of magic
it is.'
'You wander from the subject, I replied,
pleased in spite of myself, at the tribute he
had paid to Flora's beauty.
'The nature of the impending peril, I may
not divulge. It is sufficient for you to know,
that it is near, and imminent; and that by ob-
serving due caution you can meet it, and over-
come it.'
'Let your speech be less ambiguous. Speak
frankly, if you would be believed. Mystery I
like not, and I have always remarked that
where there is much mystery there is much de-
ceit.  A stranger comes to me and says, 'There
is danger near you,' but refuses to make
known the nature of that danger; now how
much importance ought to be. attached to his
words ?'
'Your reasoning is false--your inferences'
are wrong. If you love your own life-if you
love Flora Dale, during the next twenty-four
hours, be continually on your guard. Let the
whole party keep together. Do not leave them
for a moment, nor suffer Flora to.'
'Tell me one thing. How do you know
Flora Dale ? Where have you met her ?'.
'You have asked two questions instead of one,
young man ; suffice it that I have seen her,
and know her ; that is enough for your pur-
pose and mine. Will you do as I have direct-
ed?'
M' I dont know ; I will see.'-
'You are self willed and obstinate. I have
a mind to leave you to your fate,-let you die
as the fool dieth.'
' I came into the world like a fool, and to be
consistent, should go out like one. What do
you say to that ?'
The stranger changed color and bit his lip.
'aWas your father like you-?' he asked ai-d
ruptly.

EST  FIEND.      -6
I dont know. My father and I were stran-
gers. I never had the honor of his aequain-
tance. What more would you say?'
He died when you were an infant, proba-
bly.
'You say so.'
'No; I asked a question.'
'You'll have to answer it.'
'Then you. dont know your own father?'
'Cease to question me. My father was a
villain whoever he was,' I replied, with much
bitterness. 'You were speaking of some great
danger. Have you more to add ?'
'No ; you scorn my friendly counsels.'
' Give me some proof that you speak truly,
and I will follow your directions implicitly, and
will henceforth class you among my friends.'
'Listen, you number twenty in all ; before to-
morrow night there will be but nineteen of you.'
. Where will the other one be V'
'No matter; I have said. Twenty now,
nineteen to morrow. Think of 'it young man.'
And the man who called, himself Forrester,
turned abruptly from me, and walked away.
Once he paused as if he would turn back, then
he quickened his pace and was soon lost to my
view.
I sAt still and mused on. I was not in the
best of humor,;I acknowledge. Who was For-
rester ?  What did he want?  Had he spoken
in good faith?  Dont know I Can't tell. I
shall see. But I have but little faith in this
stranger, though I have often thought of him
since the night of our first meeting.
I recalled his words, and repeated them in my
mind ; yet they gave me but little uneasiness.
I walked leisurely towards tie encampment.
War-Path, the Utah Indian, iet me. This
friendly savage had not left- us since we first
fell in with him, near the settlement ; and he
had acted in the capacity of guide during our
journey.
He had learned a few words of English, and
seemed much pleased withi his new friends,
the pale faces. I had also applied myself to the
~Pah-Outah language, andeconquered a portion of
ijts hard words ; so we could now get along to-


60                               BLACK
gether very well, in the way of conversation.
War-Path was, accompanied on this occasion by
an Indian who had joined us a few days before,
and of whom  I knew but little. They were
talking earnestly together.
'How is my white brother?' said War-Path.
'Very well. How   is my red brother; and
what is he talking 'about so earnestly ?'
' 'am well, and I was talking of the bad
Manito of the woods.'
'And what of the bad Manito of the woods,,
red brother'?'
*All my brethren fear him. I was thinking
what a great honor it would be to kill him.
*iYou cannot kill him, brother. He rides
upon the winds. He comes and goes, and deals
out death to the red lnah, and you cannot see
him   How then can you slay him?'
War-Path looked at me seriously, then at his
companion.
He thinks he can kill him, white brother,'
he replied, pointing his fInger at his red friend.
Letlhim try,' I answered. ' It will be the
hardest day's work he ever attempted.'
War-Path smiled, shook his head doubtfully,
and passed on.
'How are you, stranger?' said a voice.
I paused. wondering v hat new adventure was
before me. The figure of a man leaning upon
a long rifle, was the first object that met my
sight. At-first I thought it was Osborne, for-
the. figure was about his height.
Did you speak ?'     .
I reckon as how I did.' was the rejoinder.
I'am happy to see you.'
Them's my feeling's ' was the reply. 'And
here's my hand for you to shake; and though its
rough and hard, its an honest one.'
The franknes of the stranger pleased me, and
I shook the proflered hand with right good will.
This is a strange wild country,' he added.
Do you like it?'
Do I like it, stranger I as I loved my moth-
er's milk, when a babe. It's a glorious coun-
try, and I could live in no other. Have
you seen any of the'/seathen creturs in your
wanderin's ?'

RALPlh

'I have met them, often. I dare say you
have had nAny adventures with them'
'My name is Baptiste La oy; and when
I've said'that you'd ought to have inown sunthin'
about it '
-' It gives me pleasure to shy that I have;
often heard of you. Gilmore has mentioned;
the name of La Roy, more than once.'
'Is Gilmore near these diggins, stranger?'
' He is where you see the smoke curling up
through the trees yonder.',
'It can't be possible ! I've known him ever,
since he's been" in the wilderness. I've often,
been in at the leath with him ; though he has
no partickelar system o' finishin'. I go in for
the eye.'
'So Gilmore has told me.'
'There paint nothin' like death in the eye ;
though there is some very clever chaps who go,
in for the bridge o' the nose system, and don't.
like no other style o' finishin'.
' Do you invariably shoot them in the eye?'
' Allers, when I can see the heathen creturs'
eyes ; if I can see 'em, why then, I do the
best I can, though it goes rayther agin the
grain to finish 'em in any other style.'
' There is one thing I wish to ask you,' I
said, with considerable earnestnes. 'Have'
you ever heard of a being galled Black Ralph,-
during your lotg pilgrimage in the woods ?'
La:Roy approached me and laid his hand
on my arm.
' Have I heard of Black Ralph I Can any
human cretur wander up and down this great
wilderness for years, and not hear of that onao-
countable cretur ?'f
'What do you think of him?'
'That's a hard question, stranger ; I'd' rather
you'd ask me sunthin' else;,
Would you like to, bring old Ironsidea to
bear upon him once ?'
Hush I stranger, I- wouldn't no more level
this shootin' stick at Black Ralph, than I'd
put my hand into the fire that's blazin' out
yonder where your friends are. And why should
I wish to harm him ? Has he done me any
hurt? :No!I Am I any the worse offfor. him ?

a

TH  FOREST FIEND.

Not; I  H.~s Injins, its true, and I dont
blame him"      '.r  they dont do but little
good upon ,       of the earth. With your,
leave I'll go   roke a pipe with Gilmore,'
Sleeping an    isg; waking and sleeping;
dreaming of' F   and' Osborne, Forrester and
Black Ralph; so the night wore away.
CHAIPER XiI.
)(was up int    morning before my com-
panions. The first rays of the rising sun
blushed faintly in the east. The birds
were singing merrily. Thinking I was the only
person stirring about the encampment, I stepped
forth to inhale the refreshing air of morning.
I was much surprised at beholding Flora at a
short distance from the encampment. I hasten-
ed to join her, and the next moment stood by
her side.
'You are abroad early, Flora,' I remarked.
'Yes, I thought it too fine a morning to be
lost in sleep.'
But you, are. imprudent. It is not safe to
move so far from the encampment. Let me
hope you will be cautious in future.'
'Are you given to presentiments ?!
'Not often, but there are moments when I:
seem to feel the approach of danger. No long-
er ago than last night I experienced one of
those mysterious influences that.warn us of the
approach of an evil hour.'
' To be frank with you, Seward, I experi-
enced the same undefinable feeling of impending
evil. I wonder what it can be?'
'I wish I could tell you,' I replied; but
that I cannot do. Lema walk upon this bank.
What a romantic spot 1'
'You are violating your own maxims,' said
Flora, with a smile. 'We are going from the
encampment.'
'We will be careful not to wander far. With
thee, Flora, it- seems to me that the whole
journey of -life would be but a pleasant stroll
through delightful groves, and a land of per-
petual flowers. Row much real happiness can,

67

I perceive in the storehouse of the future.. I
shall call you mine, and you will be near me
ever.. There is only one thought that chills
my happiness-the life on earth is too brief a
period for the enjoyment of love like mine.
Would that time -could. be lengthened into eter-
nity. But death steps in like a.grim. and fell
destroyer ; and so my Flora, and I, must pass
away.'
'You are wrong, Seward. There are low,
sweet voices that whisper unceasingly into my
ear of a life to come.. Call not'death a destroy.
er ; he comes like a friend to emancipate the
soul from its earthly slavery. . Our loves hg11'
not pass away with the fleeting breath; they
shall be renewed in a world of eternal blessed.
ness. The voices that I tear hourly and daily,
tell me this. Did' you ,never hear the voices,
Seward ?  They are best heard in the calm
hour of early morning, in the quiet noon of
night, in the still, whispering twilight. It is
glorious to listen to them, for they seem to 'be'
the voices of my guardian angels. Speak not
thou of the shortness of time. If we have 'loved
truly here, we shall love truly where the sun
never sets, and where the trees and flowers,
bloom eternally.'
'The voices have told you so?' I said, with.
a smile, pressing the fair little hand of Flora, in
my own.
'A thousand times, Seward.'
'You cannot talk of the' voices. too much,.
Flora. I like to hear you. I have heard few
preachers that I liked better.'
'Look I' said Flora, suddenly changing the
subject, 'yonder is the Indian that j  ed us a
few days since. He seems thoughtful'  M.
I followed the direction.of Flora's eyes, and
beheld the Indian, to whom I have before allud-
ed, standing on the bank of the river.
We both paused and contemplated him some-
time in silence.
'A curious.race of beings are these same
savages,' I observed, thoughtfully.
'Have you conquered your dislike to them
yet?
Not in the least. I do not. I


68                                    BLACK
'They are not to blame for having a red skin,
Seward.'
'I dont know about that,' I replied. ' Just
look at that creature ! What can you see about
him that looks human?'
'He does not look like us, it is true, yet there
is something human about him, notwithstand-
ing. But he is not like War-Path.'
'Very true he is not so noble.'
'Then you will allow that there is somthing
noble about War-Path.'
'But very little, however.'
'I see you are resolved not to give the poor
red man any credit for his goodness.'
'Never mind; let us rest ourselves upon
the bank. Here is a moss covered stone, that
invites us to sit.'
We both sat down ,upon the moss covered
stone, and in a short time the thought of In-
dians, and danger, were effectually dispelled from
our minds, or at least from, mine.
Perhaps we had remained there half an hour,
perhaps twice that time, for we gave little heed
to the footsteps of the old man with the grey
locke and the scythe.
Flora's smiles were pleasant to look upon ;
her voice was sweet to listen to ; the river made
a dreamy sound, the birds thrilled it merrily ;
so time went on. How   long we should have
sat there and talked, and smiled upon each
other, I know not; a scream, shrill and start-
; flg, from Flora, caused me to spring sudden-
1 to my feet, and as I did so, I perceived the
Indian of whom I have just spoken, in the act
of falling, and he was not three feet from us.
e had approached us it would seem unheard.
In his right hand he grasped his hunting knife,
and the fingers retained it after he had fall-
emto the earth.  Before I noticed him farther,
I was obliged to turn my attention to Flora, for
she was fainting with terror.
I strove to reassure her, but it was some mo-
ments ere she grew calm enough to explain what
she had seen.
It appears, as she sat upon the bank, and
gazed down into the water, she had seen the
shadow efthe Indian reflected there with great

i

THE FOREST FIEND.

RALPH
distinetness, and he was in .the act of striking
with the deadly weapon, whioi*disifeless hand
still grasped, when she utt   e' cry which.
caused me to spring to my fe
'Fear nothing, Flora,' I S  as calmly as
I could.  'The savage is p   doing you an
injury. Justice is even now meted out to him.
Black Ralph is abroad.
Flora turned and looked at the body.   I1:
pointed to a small wound in his left breast.
'Behold where the life oozed out,' I said.
'I perceive only a large drop of blood there,'
replied Flora.
Yet death found an entrance there. That
dark drop of blood flows from a wound that no
leech on earth can heal.'
leecannot realize that he is dead,' returned
Flom. ' It is but a moment since I saw that
strong, tawny arm upraised to strike. What
a strange thing is death! how suddenly it
comes.'
'Strange enough is death; but a death like
this is passing strange.'
' There is much that is wonderful about this
whole transaction, Seward. Why did he wish
to aim a blow at my life ? What cause had he'
for such an act ?  I know him not ; and to my
knowledge have rendered him no evil.'
.' What have I always told you, Flora? have
I not assured you many times that red men are
a treacherous and faithless set! I have always
hated them-I hate them   still-and with a
hatred more bitter and unrelenting will I regard
them in the future. Look at him  as he lies
there. A moment or two since he was a living
creature, with a heart full of hate, cunning,
and malignity.  He would have slain you with-
out cause. But God in, his justice sent an un-
known and unheard messenger to lay him low,
and I thank Him for it. He is merciful; hence-
forth the name of Black Ralph shall be dear to
me. Twill picture lhim a good angel, ever hov-
ering near those in danger, to shield them from
harm. No longer will f clothe his name with
teri-or and dread ; but to me it shall be a pleas-
ant sound ; for he has saved an existence dear er
far than my own.

. Flora looked trustingly into my face, and
tears of gratitude bedewed her cheeks.
'This seemed incredible,' she murmured at
length.  'It surpasses belief. What hand sped l
the' soul of this poor savage to its long home. s
Touch him.-raise him  up-dash water upon s
his face-see if he be really dead ?'
' Nothing can shake him back to life ; all theI
water in the sea would not revive him. That
dust will never live again.'
' And this you' say is the work of Black t
Ralph ?'
'Yes, Flora.'
'And who is he ?'
'That I cannot tell you. He is one that
comes and goes with the silence of a shadow.-
He dispenses death, and the stillness of the for-x
est is not broken.  He speeds a soul-if an In-
dian' has one-and mystery still covers him
like a mantle. This is all I know of the 'Forest
Fiend.'I
He seems a fiend indeed,' added Flora.
Not a fiend, Flora.'
And why not?',
Because he saved your life.'
Very true, and yet I know not how it was
done; I wlll try to. be grateful to him neverthe-
less.'
To-day you number twenty ; to-morrow you
will number .but nineteen,' I said musingly, as I
gazed at the stiffening body ; and I repeated it
again and again, until Flora asked what - it
meant.
' I was thinking of something that has passed,'
I answered, quickly, not wishing to excite her
fears by a recital of yesterday's adventures.
The stranger had spoken sooth; the sign had
been given.
' Go it, Cattridge Box !' said one whom the
reader will know by this time.
'Go it yourself, and see how you like it,' I
answered,
'Allers at it,' added Buston.  'Allers court-
in', the oncommon eretur. If you was both
travelling from sunrise to sunset, I a'pose you'd
allers' find sunthin' to talk about. But what in
the name o' natur is this ? Git up, you red
Inj in Wha n irthi are ye layin' here

'I don't much think that he will rise at your
bidding,' I said.
'Sure enough, youngster. He's got it in the
eft breast. Its my opinion the devil lives
omewhere hereabouts. It's dangerous to be
afe anywhere in these parts.'
At that moment Gilmore, Dale, Arthur' and
La Roy made t eir'appearance.
'Brass Ey s what do you think of this ?'
In the heart,' said Gilmore, looking atten-
ively at the body, 'right in the heart. The    )'
ilent and onheard cretur is doing' his work.'
'That heathen eretur has been called to stick
his toes up in a sudden and onexpected manner,
prepared or onprepared,' said La Roy.  'He
has lost his hold on all things of a sublunar
natur. I hope his mind had been properliyex-
ercised in regard to the futur state.'
'He never had no mind to brag on,' added
Buston. 'He's got sunthin' now tiat he can't
get up nor down-sunthin' as he's sure on.'
'Poor fellow!' said Arthur, I "wish him a
happy journey to the land of souls.'
I don't wish the Ingin indervidooal no worse
nor that,' added Gilmore.
tI wish all the creturs were there, and
there's any hurt in it, I'm w Min' to be for-
given,' rejoined Buston. 'Thein's the natur of
my sentiments, Brass-Eyes.'
' I can't account for this,' said Arthur to me,
in a low voice, after I had stated what had taIen
place. ' There is something strange and awful
about it. Just think of arresting the course of
life so suddenly as a death like this indicates.--
Alive and well one moment, a lump of clay the
next.'
As we all moved from-the spot I again said
to myself, 'Twenty to-day, nineteen to-morrow.'
The stranger had not spoken falsely. As he
had predicted, so had it happened.
As we walked towards the fires of our en-
campment, I glanced backward to the scene of
the strange tragedy ; War-Path was omitting
the body to the waters of'the Rio Colorado,
During that day's journey not on9 pf cus, I
believe, could help thinking of the p4aordi
nary being called Black5Rlh.         K~


70                               BLACK RALPNT
I wish to talk with you,' said Arthur, after to ride. The motions of the horse made my,
all bad become quiet in the encampment.   head ache more bitterly, and I as conscious that
Takig my rifle I followed the brother of the blood was trickling down over my forehead.
Flora.                                        Caught at last,' muttered Osborne, and
:   Dont go ar,'aid La Roy, 'I've seen.signs Black Ralph himself cannot save you. You
of the heathen ereturs to-ay.'            had better be saying'your prayers.'
This way,' added Arthur' The noon will  -'Poor Flora !' I said, mentally.  'Poor Flo-
be up soon, and it will shine pleasantly upon ra !' and then my eyes felt as though they were
yonder hill-side.'                        hot and burning.
We strolled on and conversed upon the many  Occasionally the moonbeams revealed the
strange things we had seen and known in the features of the Indian, and I beheld the lines of
wilderness. After we had gone some distance hate and malignity pictured thereon. I was
we sat down and talked a long time upon various used to seeing ugly faces, but his made me shud-
interesting subjects.                     der, uptwithstanding.
We were upon the point of rising and leav- We rode on without abating our speed, and
ing the spot, when I was conscious of receiving my sufferings' were most intense.  A dozen
a stunning blow upon my head.             fevers seemed to be running riot in my veins
I knew no more at that time. Dark, dreamy, No water was offered to cool my tongue. When
confused images went swimming and whirling the morning dawned, I was a long, weary way
before i eyes. I must have remained uncon- from my friends.
sious for a long time.                      ' You are most to your journey's end,' said
When, with a painful effort, I opened my Osborne. ' There remains but one more jour.
eyes, Arthur was no where to be seen. Spots ney for you, now.'
of blood were distinctly perceived upon the  'We now descended into a deep and danger-
ground.  Two figures stood beside me.- ous ravine. Several times I was in danger of
I looked at the taller of the twain; it was losing my seat, and being thrown upon;the rocks.
Osborne 1 I glanced at the other ; he was the Upon one side of this ravine were high moun-
veiy same I had lashed upon the horse, and tains, and towards those our course was directed.
doomed to a cruel death. A grim smile of     When we reached them, I thought I could go
triumph flitted across the features of Osborne.  no farther ; but I was mistaken. Between the
Do you realize it?' he said sneeringly.  immense fragments of rocks that seemed to ob-
I made no answer.. My tongue was parched struct our way, there appeared a narrow open-
and dry, and refused to utter a word.     ing.
'You do not speak. You are daunted then,  A horse and rider could with difficulty pass
last                                    through. The Indian entered this rocky defile,
I laid my hand upon my head, for it ached I followed him next in order, and Osborne came
horribly,                                 last.
dealt that blow,' added Osborne.  'It was  ',No human foot save mine has explored this
given with right good will. Three times have passage before,' said Osborne significantly.
you baffled me, twice have you wounded me ;  We emerged from this narrow way into an
but that is past and over.'               open space embosomed by the mountain ranges.
My;hands were now firmly bound together.  ' The hand of the Almighty has flung a wall
h"e a.led forwar-, and I was lifted upon about us that is impregnable. Which of your
his back. -Osbor-ne and the Indian then mount.. friends will find you here ?'
ed the animals which had been placed there for I would have spoken, but I could not.
tI e purjose,' and we all moved away at a brisk ' Sullen 1' he cried, fiercely, 'ullen as h-..-l I'
trot, the former leading the beast I was forced The sun was now high in the heavens, and

THE FOREST
streamed his light down among the mountains
gloriously. I was taken from the horse and
placed upon my feet,, but my limbs refused to
bear me up. I sank upon the grass, and cared
but little what my fate might be, providing it
were soon over, and I were released from pain.
The Indian;took his hatchet and trimmed the
lowest branches from a small cotton-wood.-- 
When this was done, he produced several strong
thongs of deer-skin. I was then stripped of my
clothing' I submitted to all with the dogged
apathy of despair.
Had I been in the full possession of my
strength, and not been rendered deathly sick by
that racking pain in my head, I would have
resisted and foughtto the last.
I was now dragged to the cotton-wood, and
placed against it. My hands were carried back-
wards and lashed so firmly that there was danger
of the hard thongs cutting through the flesh.-
My other limbs were next tied to the cotton-
wood with equal rigor.
While this was being done, Osborne looked
on with a smile of satisfaction.
'If any person, by the merest chance should
find their way to this spot, at the expiration of
a few days, they will discover a skeleton lashed
to a cotton-wood !' said Osborne ; and mounting
his horse, he rode away, followed by the Indian,
leading tho animal I had ridden.
They were soon out of sight, and I was alone
-left to starve-to faint--to perish in the sin.
I was cut off from my friends ; human aid
could not reach me.
Indulgent reader, attempt, for a moment, to
imagine yourself in my position. Endeavor to
fancy yourself in the heart of an immense wil-
derness, doomed to the most cruel of all deaths.
Strive to picture yourself exposed to the hot
rays of the'sun, and sighing for a drop of wa-1
ter, even as the rich man sighed when he beheld1
Lazarus afar off in Abraham's bosom. Imagine
also that you feel a deadly sickness at the
stomach, and that your brain is dreadfully rack-
ed and dizzy-.
' A fearful situation, truly I' you will doubt-
less exclaim.                   '      -

T- FIEND.                       -       7I
The hours went rolling heavily onward. My
limbs began to, swell and pain me horribly.-.--
The sun shone fiercely upon me and burned
my skin. I made frantic exertions to free my-
self, but I could not move an inch, so well iail
the work of my enemy been done.
I cast my:aching eyes towards heaven ; but
the sun flashed into them as if to burn them
dry. I looked down to the earth,; and thep
the thought occurred to me that I should never
have decent burial, but be eaten by birds and
wolves before my poor body was cold perhaps.
What would Flora say when sle learned that
I had suddenly disappeared and could not be
found. Perhaps she might, in an evil moment
think I had ba ely deserted her. But.no;
that could not he; she knew me too well to do
me so much injustice.. She would doubtless
conclude the worst had happened, and would
mourn my untimely fate many a long year.
How my temples throb I My brain seems
actually on fire ! What a blessed boon one
single drop of water would be. 12bshall taste
water no more. Gracious Father of men,! in
thy infinite mercy proportion my strength to the
immergencies of my day. I am weak; thoR
art strong. I am finite, everlasting .years are
thine.  I shall go mad. This fierce sun, is
scorching my brain. My sufferings overpower-
ed me at length,. and insensibility put a tempo-
rary end to my sufferings.
I knew there was an interval in which a
thousand incoherent thoughts and strange im
ges went whirling before me. I have a faint
remembrance that as I began to revive, I-f
the horrible sickness and faintness again..z
I knew I heard a friendly' and well known
voice exclaim:
'Go it, Cattridge-Box ! Qome. on, Brass-
Eyes. I've found the cretur tied to a tree,
parfectly safe ; won't it make the heart of
occommon Florry glad"1
How my heart leaped ithin me, when tel
tones of that voice fell upon my ear. How
fervently I blessed the well meaning old hun-
ter. Tears came to my aid-the first I had shed
-and they moistened my burning eye-balls.

;;
. - .


72                                   BLAC
'Bring water, stir your stumps !  Be lively,
tie poor boy is in an unhappy state.. His
tongue is as dry as a stick.  The Lord be mer-
ciful to us all! -What a trick to serve a human
eretur,' added Buston, while he severed the
thongs that were imbedded in my flesh, with rap-
'1a and dexterous strokes of his hunting knife.
The critters shall smell gunpowder for this,'
maid Gilmore.  'Open your mouth, my boy ;-
here's water, fresh, clear sparkling water. Hurry
up Brass-eyes ! turn the precious fluid down
Iiis throat ; 'twill do him good. Now give him
sunthin' out o' the bottle---a good dose of it.
There, he opens his eyes.'
'How hot the boy's flesh is,' replied Gilmore.
£ It makes me feel oncomfortable to look at him.
It puts me all aback. You'll have to hold old
Two Shooter, to keep it still, arter this. Yes,
this hollow bit -of steel will have work to do,
and -the criters will take blue pills. Can't
some pious indervidooal give me a chance at the
varmints, about this hour of the day.
'Becalm, Brass-Eyes ! govern your religious
feelin's.  The time 'll come when we'll stand
up shoulder to shoulder, and send particular
conviction among the Ingin indervidooals. The
spirit o' prophercy has fell on me like a stick o'
timber.  We shall see what we shall see.'
Gilmore carried me in his arms to a shady spot.
He put my clothes on me with the gentleness of
one who cares for-an infant. He bathed my head,
face and hands in cool water, from which I
experienced the most grateful sensations.
Buston placed the bottle again to my lips,
and I managed to swallow a considerable quan-
tity of whiskey.
While Gilmore was thus engaged with these
kind offices, I relapsed into a deep and refresh-
ing sleep. I faintly remember that something like
a dream occurred to me.   The form of my saint-
ed mother stood beside me.  Sweet sometimes,
are the vagaries of sleep.
i

K RALPH'
CHAPTER         X III.
BUTTON'S STORY .
OPENED my eyes. A change had taken
place in the appearance of things around
me. A tent had been raised over me,
softly, while I slept, and I found Gilmore's
blanket wrapt about me. No person was in
sight. The, pain in my head had subsided, and
I no longer felt the deadly sickness at the stom-
ach. It was near the hour of sunset, or sun-
rise, I knew not which.
As I lay there, the entrance to the lodge was
darkened by the figure of a man. Forrester
was again before me. He hesitated a moment,
cast a furtive glance behind him, and then en-
tered.
'I find you sick and weak,' he said. ' When
last I met you, you were well, strong, and bold.
What are you now?'
'I am helpless to-day; but I may be bold
and strong again to-morrow, I answered. 'What
more have you.to say?'
'You have doubtless forgotten what I said to,
you three days ago?'
'Forgotten your words!' I wish I could for-
get them.
'I warned you of danger; you scorned my
counsel. Look at yourself in a vessel of water,
and mark the result.'
'Yes; you did speak of danger near, and
imminent ; but could you not have done more ?'
'You speak like all the rest of mankind-not
grateful for a little-ever reaching for pore-
ever finding fault. Had you followed my coun-
sel, you would not have been stretched upon
this couch of pain.'
'But you were so ambiguous in your lan-
guage !'
,If I told you one truth, and you believed
it not, why should I have told you another. . If
you would not heed my advice in one thing, why
should I suppose that you would in another ?'
Very true ; but I like not mystery, as I told
you then.
There is one question I would ask.'
Ask it.'

y
t
i
t
r-
IM
Y
^t
.s,
t
C'
s:
x
r
~s
.i
= r
z
3
l
4+y s
4
b
f   -
% t

THE FOREST FIEND.

' If you knew what would happen, why did
you not save me'?'
'Let the future answer that.'
'I do not comprehend you. Who are you?
Why do you seek me?   Why do you wander
up and down these woods?  What am I to you,
or what are you to me?'
'Do not trouble your head about those mat.
terms. Try to get well. Seek out your enemy
and slay him; hate Indians, be bold, and strong
of heart.'
' That's singular advice to give a sick man.'
'It's the best I have ; receive it, or not, just
as you please. I am not particular about such
matters. I take care of number one ; you must
do the same. I would give you advice to direct
your course in future ; but you would heed it
not, and, I forbear.'
'Speak the truth, and I care not,' I an-
swered.
'I seldom speak falsely,' he said, proudly,
' There is something more I would ask?'
'Well?''
'Are you my friend ?'
For a moment Forrester was silent, and gave
me a searching and earnest look.
' Before God,' he replied, seriously, ' I
know not whether I have been your friend or
your greatest enemy!'
'That would seem singular,' I returned, in-
terested in the stranger, in spite of myself.
Shall I see you again ?',
If you live long enough, you will be likely
to.'

Indeed -'
'Adieu for the present.'
'You have no more to say, then?'
It would be useless to say more. You are
headstrong. We may meet again soon. Be
careful of yourself:' and Forrester turned and
left me as abruptly as he came.,
He had been gone but a few minutes when
Buston entered the lodge.
'Where is Arthur ?' I asked.
'I hope he's in some-safe place,' he replied,
hesitatingly.
'Have you seen or heard from him?'

'I can't say I have.'
'You know nothing of his fate, then ?'
'I'm sorry to say I'm parfectly ignorant on
that subject. It wont be well for you to think
much about him at present. Try to get up
agin as soon as you can ; that'll be better nor
anythin' you can do. You've had along sleep.'
'How long have I slept ?'
' You went to sleep at. dark ; it's . mornin'
now.'
' I feel much better. Where are the rest ,f
our friends?'
'They are on the way here. You will be
likely to see oncommon Florry afore the sun
goes down.'
How did you find me?'
' We stumbled upon a tall, mighty queer
chap, who put'us on the trail.'
'Is it possible ?'
' It isn't more nor less than possible.'
'How did the stranger appear?
'Jest as though he was in a great hurry, and
had. got to go in another direction, post haste.'
'Did he say much ?'
' He pinted out the direction, and told us.not
to let the grass grow under our feet.' Just as
he - was turning away he said: 'if you don't
find him there, I shall find himin another place,
and you can tell the young gal so. With that
he left us. We didn't have time to ask who
he was, or ,where he came from. We followed
his directions, and found our way into this curi-
ous place, where we discovered you tied safely
to a cotton-wood.'
'Where is Two Forty?'
'That oncommon horse ain't a great way off,
you may depend on't.
At that moment Gilmore appeared. I felt
truly glad to see his friendly face. He came
and sat down beside me, felt my pulse, exam-
ined my tongue, &amp;c., in a manner that evinced
considerable knowledge of the healing arts
'You are a: great deal better,' said he.
'You'll be able to give the{ varmints their due
yet, my boy.'
' It is not the Indians I am indebtedtfor
this last trick,' I answered, 'It ~  oOtorne.'

t

f
4

I
3

73


'74                                BLACK:
' Osborne !' exclaimed the trapper, with a
start of astonishment.  'I thought you'd fixedI
the critter's fhial accounts t'
He lives!'
It was him, then, that left you to roast and
starve in the sun?'
It was; thanks to your timely aid.'
'The man you call Osborne won't never die a*
nateral death,' returned Gilmore, earnestly.
He'll step out of the world in some awful and
unexpected wanner.- It airi't often I prophecy,
but when I do, you may set it down as sunthin'
,atain, and ras will take place sooner or later.'
Go'it'Isaiah I' said Buston.
'When I say that Osborne will die with hisI
moccasin on, I don't exaggerate in any degree,'
added the trapper.
'Speak your mind, Brass-Eyes.   Don't re-
strain your nateral piety.'
'I've often told you that my name wasn't
Brass-Eyes, or any sich nonsense, and I'd thank
you to bear it in mind,' returned Gilmore, in an
offended tone. 'I've stood it as long as I could,
and I egn't stand it no longer.'
x' plode,Gunpowder!'
i' f you Want the priverlege of standin' up
afor Two Shooter, you can have it.'
SIt wouldn't be a very comfortable place to
stand, I reckon; but in case of necessity I
should'nt be afeared to stand there.'
'It isn't my natur to quarrel, by no means;
but I know of a capital spot for anytl in' of that
kind.'
'I hope it isn't a great way from here, old
Flarup.'
'I'mrthe man as is readyto go to it at any
minnit,' replied Gilmore, considerably excited.
I now thought it time to interfere.'
My'good friends,' I said, 'cease to cavil
abottrifles. You will probably have fighting
enough to do before you reach Utah Lake.'
'Right,' said lBuston.  ' There's no good
reason whyl slpoulM fight old Brass-Eyes. As
'long's thie heart's in the right jglace, why should
we mind about names. One name's as good's
another
'In a short time good humor was restoi-ed.

RAbIPH
Before night the rest of our party joined us.
I need not say that I was glad to see Flora;
and that she proved an excellent nurse.
The reader will understand this, and why
Buston said that' ' oncommon Florry was a
Great Medicine.'
But the fate of Arthur still remained a mys-
tery, and cast a gloom over us all.
'I shall go and seek him,' said the elder
Dale. 'I will never return untilI obtain some
knowledge of him.'
'Did you find the spot 'where I was taken ?'
I asked.
'I have reason to suppose so. I found a
spot wet with blood, and some signs of a strug-
gle, but nomore,' replied Dale.'
'I think he must be living,' I answered.
'Had he been slain, you would have found his
body. ' I wish I was well, that I might go with
you and share the danger of the undertaking.'
'Stay where you are until perfectly recovered.
A few stout hearts will go with me, and with
the blessing of God I hope to be successful.
Flora will be your nurse until strength returns
once more to your limbs; then it will be yours
to protect her until I rejoin you.'
Dale departed, accompanied by two of the
emigrants. Gilmore and Buston remained be-
hind to protect those not able to go on the trail,
and who naturally look to man for protection.
Under the gentle care of Flora, in a few
days I was able to be about again, though my
strength was not fully restored.
Had our minds been at ease in regard to Ar-
thur, time would have glided on very pleasant.
ly. Many hours did I sit by the side of Flora,
and listen to the wild tales of Gilmore and Bus-
ton. Sometimes we heard  thesestartling reci-
tals in the open air, beneath the bright siun, or
the silvery moon, and .at others in the quiet
lodge, during the mild hours of evening, while
the howl of the wolf and the hooting of the owl
was heard in the distance.    -
Once, when'I had recovered sufficiently, we
sat near the door of our rural habitation, and
Buston related the following, which I feel would
be defrauding the reader to withhold from these
pages. .

THF, FOREST FIEND.

'Many years have gone by,' said Buston,     I looked about a little and found tracks in the
'since I began to wander up and down between soft airth-tracks made by the varmints with
Westport and the. Rocky Mountains.     You moccasins on.
can't find many spots in this great country as  To tell the truth, and nothin' but the truth, I
isn't well known to me. I could call every riv- didn't sleep so well the next night as I did the
er by name that rises among the mountains, and night afore. I couldn't help" thinkin' about my
goes flowing towards the big, blue sea.  As for sitewation, all alone there in the woods. The
Ingin creturs, I know the whole race of 'em, Blackfeet might surprise and kill me any time,
and I can't say I know much good of 'em eith- and I shouldn't be no wiser for it till I waked
or.  The Blackfeet and the Crows are the great- up and-found myself dead.
est blackguards. of all the painted varmints,  The idee of dyin' in that style aint pleasant
I've suffered a great deal by 'em, fust and last. it isn't' like standin' up and fightin' for life,.like
Once I was trapping on Madison River. It a brave feller ; there's a vast'difference.
wasn't a very safe place to trap, and I knew it;  It allers struck me that dyin' in 6ne's sleep
but as game seemed to be abundant thereabouts was a kind of steakin' way of gettin' out o'the
I determined to try it awhile, hit or miss.  S  world.
I found a snug out o' the way place, not far  In the mornin' I visited my traps as usual,
from  the river, where I built me a little but, and found two more of 'em carried away.
which would answer my purpose very well while  ' This wont do: for me,' said L  'Ididn't
I staid there. You don't see such a place as bring my traps all the way up hereto have 'em
that often, I tell you. 'On one side there was a stole by the tarnal Ingin indervidooals."
great rock, as big as four of it, which sarved to  I went to work and set my remaining traps
conceal me from the Iogins. , On the other three in rather bad humor, and said some hard things,
sides were thick and aln ost impenetrable thick- I reckon, about the varmints. ' When the night
ets of furze and other kinds of wood. ' I used come agin, instead of going into my 'hut, 'Ista-
to be very careful about going about too boldly 'tioned myself in a thicket, near where my traps
during the day;. for I knew it wouldn't be pru- were set. -I had a double barrelled rifle at that
dent like.  So when I went to.set my traps, I time, that could be depended upon;under all
took that part of the day when the creturs would circumstances. .Besides this, I had a, brace of
be stirring' tpe least. I was very successful for regular horsespistols, such as is used in the Usi-
a time, and got quite a pile o' peltries. Well, ted States sarvice, by the troopers.; These were
one mornin' I went to look at my traps, and found tremendous things at a short distance, and would
that .some, of 'em had been stolen and carried off make a proper ugly hole in a cretur's. skin, I
by the varmints. I said nothin', but set all the loaded up my two shootia' stiekq with oncommon
rest o' my traps in another place. I didn't sleep care, and put my pistols in prime order, detar-
that night quite so well as usual, for I knew the mined to sell my life at a dear bargain, iffthe
creturs had discovered that a white trapper was Ingin indervidooals happened to find me. Laid
somewhere in. that neighborhood.  I got up down flat in the thicket, and watched the traps.
bright and early in the mornin', and went to I didn't make much noise, ,I tell you, for I un-
look at my traps again.                      derstood woodcrafts though I say it selff as
.It 'was 1with the greatest difficulty that I could shouldn't say it.
restrain my nateral piety, when I found some  I laid there hour arter hour, and all was as
more of er'gone, Now you must know, young- still as .death. :The stars come out ia4 'o pleas-
ster, that aman thinks a great deal of his traps, ant like, and the moon shone down upon me as
and Aon't hike to lose 'em, when he's been to though it was the only friend I had on the arth
the; trouble to carry 'em so fur.' I tried to be I shan't forget that night very soon for I hadga
as patient as I coul4, and set 'em agin, hopin'. to great many curious thoughts about thet time. I
have better luck.                          'had heerd people say that the planets was alJ

75

'A


BLACK  RALPH

inhabited by some kind o' human nature ; but it
didn't seem' to me possible that any kind of a
varmint whatsomever, could 'manage to live up
there. I made up my mind as I lay there, that
there wasn't a single indervidooal livin' upon
any of the heavenly bodies. The stars and the
moon was made to illumernate the airth during'
the light, and. for nothin' else.
Bat that's neither here nor there.  My views
of astronomy mayn't be altogether interestin'.
While I was. studying' about the moon and
stars, and all sich nonsense, I heerd a poise not
a great way from me. I thought at once it
must be.one; o' the varmints, and so I opened
my eye tight.'
'What does that mean ?' asked Gilmore.
'Keep cool, Brass=Eyes, and I'll tell you all
about what happened. As I was obsarvin', I
opened my right eye tight, and kept up a terri-
ble lookin'. towards my traps.  The sounds
tlat I heerd at first kept comm' nearer and
nearer, and seemed to me like somethin' walk-
in' cautiously. Well, on it come, and pretty
soon 'I had the uncommon satisfaction of seem'
a Blackfoot=standin' right over one o' my best
traps.
The critter.stooped down and sprung it with
p sti6k then took it up and was turnin' to look
fi Oreim6     'when I reckoned it was time to
stop hin. Iaimed at the critter's head, and
list ,,yifpinion that a rifle ball never went
through: an indervidooal's upper story easier
than that same ball did.
The sinfil varmint dropped the trap all of a
sudden; and fellaback without. so much as half
groan.  I dent think the red' feller ever real.
ized what'sentIhim off to the 'happy hunting'
grounds: It was good enough for him, for its
awful wicked to steal iraps'!  I waited a few
minutes to see if any more of the . creturs were
near, and then dragged the body and threw
it into the river.  When I had done this I
set n  'traps, and took my place agin in th
thicket. t was all of an hour afore I wa
disturbed aging. At' the expiration of that time
J heerdl other sounds; anda another heathen in

dervidooal made his appearance. I was nearer
to this one than I had been to 'the other.'
He sprung the trap just as 'his predecessor
did.  I let him turn fairly round with his back,
to me, then I couldn't restrain my religious
feelin's no longer.
I jumped to my feet like lightning , and lit
right down behind him, chucked the rifle agin
the back of his head and let drive.  The cretur
tipped over like a brick, and didn't give me so
much as a crooked word, or look.  His face
wasn't in a state for hislfriends to recognize him
you'd better believe.  I throwed him into the
drink, just as I had done the other.'
And you killed the whole tribe in that way,
I s'pose,' said Gilmore.
'No, I didn't, Two Shooter; you shall hear.
When I had dragged the Ingin's body into the
drink, sunthin' seemed to tell me to go towards
my hut and see what was goin' on in that di-
rection. 1 obeyed the in'ard promptin's and
crept softly back.
When I got-very near the door, I began to
think that I wouldn't go in, so I sat down in
the thicket a little way off. You perceive that
I had fired twice, and I was afeared the noise
might attract the attention of other Ingins 'who
might be in that vicinity.
I sat there with my rifle across my knees,
thinkin' about-it a long time-perhaps an hour.
I didn't feel in the best of temper, because I
couldn't keep the traps out o' mind. Just then
I heard a slight rustling among the leaves. I
looked steadily towards the spot where it come
from and presently I saw a human cretur. He
walked directly towards my hut.  As - soon as
he reached the door I knew him. It was a
voyageur whom I had seen in various places,
under various circumstances.  He was half
French and half Ingin, and' a rascally feller he
was. He was allers found hanging' about some
o' the Ingin tribes, puttin' them up to all man-.
ner of mischief. If he knew where 'there was
white trappers or hunters in the vicinity; he
swas sure to go and see 'em, and pertend to be
.a great friend to 'em, find out where their pelP
- tries were, whether they had any caches; and

THE    FOREST    FIEND.
what was in 'em. When he had found outfall seem to git ov
he wanted to know, he wouldn't fail to play ground like a
some ugly trick with 'em.   If he couldn't his hands bit
manage 'em alone, he'd bring down a 4t o' the himself into al
varmints upon 'em, and ten to one, if some of acted as thoug
the whites wasn't murdered on the spot.       ' Go it, Cat
As good fortune would have it, I had got good in the lo
pretty well posted up in regard to this cretur, traordiner to c
for he had played off one of his tricks on me ; . I let him ki
but I was fortunate enough to escape with my a chance to pri
life, and that was a great marcy.          goin' to.'
I never could think of r this treacherous var- 'Very kin
mint without sayin' some kind o' wicked words  'Of course
and I had resolved more iior once, to settle his mints etarnal'
final accounts. When I  saw the anermal I human critter
couldn't restrain my religious feelin's on no ac- what has he to
couit whatever,'                          petss?  Noth
'Go it, Bust-your-BilerI1' said Gilmore.   'Well, don't
' I'm gettin on as fast as I can; so dont in- Gilmore.
terrupt me.                                   ' No longer
The half-breed cretur stopped at the door sarns, Brass-E
and listened ; but he couldn't hear nothin', of 'He's been
course. He next tried the door to see if it torted Gilmore
was fastened. Findin' it wasn't, dont you think  ' That's bui
he had the impudence to push it open ! end of a huma
Well, arter doin' that, he seemed to grow offif it'll be an
bolder ; first he looked in, and then he walked nor I meant
in, jest as though he was the lawful owner and mustn't do no
perprieter of the consarn.  I had managed to  When I thoi
keep down my airly piety 'till that minit; but and he was wi
when I see him doin' that, I give right up to I jest clapped,
my feelin's. I arose from where I was sitting' his nateral bra
and walked arter the varmint in double quick away. It seer
time, to use a military figure of speech. sition. He la
I met him face to face in the door, and you as though not
probably never see a cretur looked so astonished. been known
I had one of the horse pistols in my hand consarns since
and the way it was loaded up was no man's thing that eve
business.                                    ',What did
As soon as he saw me, he began a long per. per.
larver, and tell me how glad he was to see me  'Gathered
and all that kind o' stuff.                started, resolve
' That sort o' nonsense d n't work on me,' neighborhood
said I, ' and with that I held the pistols about ' Did you h~
a foot from his stomach, and let him have it in ' Of course
the bread basket. He jumped up and yelled without a bos
as though sunthin' had hurt him, ana couldn't bad luck.

77

ver it; He rolled round on the
mad cretur, tore up the airth with
at everything in reach, and put
l manner o' shapes, and in fact
h he had the rebellious colic.
tridge-Box I' says I, 'It'll do 'you
ng run. You need sunthin' or-
hange your wicked natur.'
ck round a spell, jest to give him
epare for the new country he was
d in you,' said Gilmore.
I didn't want to injure the var-
prospects in the least. When a
is layin' aside his airthly natur,
cheer him but-his etarnal pros-
in' under the light o' the sun.'
keep the critter in pain,' added
than is good for his etarnal con-
yes.'
kicking' about Ave minits ' re-
t a short time on the very last
n cretur's life ; but I'll finish him
ay accommodation to you, soone-
to in the first place, though I
violence to the facts of the case.
ought his mind in a suitable state,
lin' to go, from this world o' pain
'tother pistol to the place where
gains ought to have been and blazed
med to change his whole disper-
id down on the cold airth'as quiet
hin' had happened. He's never
to interfere with other people's
and I believe that was the last
r occurred to him.'
you do then ?' asked the trap-
up my peltries, took my traps and
ed to git out o' sich a dangerous
as quick as possible,'
ave a hosa?'
I had; a free trapper is never
s, unless he meets with terrible

I


Two forty carried me along way afore I con- B  ton, gravely. 'That, was her Ingin name.'
eluded to make any stop. I commenced tra     "hat's because she run away, Is'pose.'
ping again in the neighborhood of Saptin's, at  No;, she was allers called the Runin' Ivy.'
friedlyinfnsie sot o peple liyn' pon 'Sh  didn't prove-to be the kind of Ivy that
friendly 5; mfensive sort .o people , lyen', upon  dSdh                           l-
the Yaller Stone, and its tributaries. I set my would cling to your affections,' added Gil-
traps on Tongue River, which runs along near more.
the base of the Black Hills, and -I believe  'She was the Runnin' sort,' returned the
takes its rise among 'emsomewhere.        hunter, with a sigh.
Well, while,I was there, I did sunthin' as I  'Did you own a dog at that perticular period
never did afore ; I fell in love.'         o' time  asked Gilmored
'Who  ithBustn?'                I did, Brass-Eyes ; and he, had three names
'Who with, Buston ?Vd
'The gal was half Mexican, and. half Ingin two for week days and one for Sundays. I
and a handsomer eretur you   eves set eyes alleys run to extremes in all things. But I
on. Her father and mother we e both livin' never could keep anythin' a great while at a
with the Saptins. I did my" best to please 'em  time, more's the pity.'
all, and succeeded. But I had a rival, and he  'It appears, added Gilmore, that you'
was one of the chiefs of the tribe. He looked a runnin' dog and a running' wife, and a run-
on me with an evil eye, as you may suppose ; nin' oss I What in the name ' natur will you
but I wasn't afeard of him, by no means, though have next.';
e-give me some ugly looks.. The old folks con-1  'Don't be hard, old Cattridge-Bax. Keep,
sented, and I was married to my Ingin gal, in down your nateral piety. I shan't never for-
true Ingin style.                          git the Runuin' Ivy.'
'Half Mexican, you said just now,' inter- .So we parted for the night; Buston to dream
pted Gilmore.                          of the Runnin' Ivy, and I to dream Flora.
ruptedouilmore. Gentle rader, =whose dreams d outik
So she was, Brass-Eyes, and it would have     e re                      you think
doue your eyes good to see her, she was sich a were the sweetest ?
pictur of natural beauty.  She was as much
like uncommon Florry, as she could be, and I              SURROUNDED.
often think of it when I look at her.  She     W      a     el ine      m    n
proed  rae lvinandgoo wie wile I had   WAS- awakened early in the morning b
proved a rate- lovin and good wife whieIhd      Bso.
Usher, but. that wasn't long ; for she mysteriously )J ' Wsta
disappeared one day, and I've never seen her    '     se' asked
,since, from that time to this; and that was four  'Trouble enough,' h
oesterday.'We're surrounded.'
years ago, yeseray                                                    I    lid"h
What on airth become on her ? asked the   'Surrounded y mountais,     repi, wth
trapper,                                  a smile.
apl'e.                            ' Bythe Ingms '
'Can't tell you. All I know is that she dis-  Byt
y                         'What kind of a ians
appeared, and  that chief also disappeared, and  'Watnd oflInoans 'P
wasn't seeh no more among his people. I shan't  ,
think.'
never forget my Ingin gal, though I may wan-
der over all partso' the world.  1 never git up   Wh a  es '
in the mornin' without thinkin' on her;, and I'rounded se  'e,. and isn'ttanoug?'
never goto bled at night without hopin' that' no  'Wherseen Gme?'adin hteog
harm has come upon her.'                     'Hes tryin' to get a chance to bring Two
What was, your gal called' interrogated Sotrobernsmen'm.
' She was called the Runnin' Ivy,' returned  I.os  notm   namn       yef    dte
sallied out with Buston-

You see that spur of the
your right?' said the hunter, point
finger.
'Well, airly this mornin'--half
perhaps-I see several of the varn
rom place to place, and peerin d
I went and waked Gilmore, and
same. We kept kind o' quiet,a
long afo-e we see some more off
tion. We then begun to watch pu
found in a short time that.they we
us.'

Y1
4

'If there were no females with
not be such bad news; it is for th
I fear.'
'I'll fight for oncommon Florr
male creatures as long as I can lift
not the man as gives back when
death looks me in the face.'
Thank you Buston.'
I'd stand up alone betwee
Florry and a thousand Ingin mde
'And you'd fight nobly, too.'
'I'd do my best, young man,
anybody can do. Keep behind
much as you can. Don't seem to
of anything wrong. There, this is
for observation: Let us set do
watch a little while. I dont thi
see us here.'
I followed the directions of Busto
our position in a small cluster of t
the place we occupied, we had
chance to scan the mountain rang
My eyes wandered anxiously an
along their steep and broken sides.
a wily enemy lurk among the tho
places they afforded. , There were I
mighty fragments of rocks, rent-
knows how-by sonie terrible cony
ture; yawning chasms; precipicei
depth ; gorges deep and almost in
unpractised feet.
'Looki' said Buston.
' Where?'
'Away there. Do you see ?'

THE    FOREST    FIEND.79
mountain on   . ' Ido. I see a painted face. It seems to be
sting with his nearing us.'
'It's a scout, probably. He's a coming' to see
what we look like. It'll- be well for him not to
an hour ago, come too near.'
mints runnin' 'Now I can see his shoulders. By heavens !
own upon us. he's reconnoitering, sure enough.'
1 he see the ' That's the varmint's intention, youngster.'
and it wasn't   'Have you warned the rest of the encamps
in that direc- meant of the impending danger'?'
tty close, and  'Gilmorel1 attend to that. He isn't the man
re all around as will neglect anythin' as consarns the gineral
safety. They've all got their orders afore this
us this would time. It wont be long afore you'll see all the
iem only that ,men as can lift an axe, busy at work. See!1
they're at it now. They'll build a fort as will
hold us all afore night, if the creturs don't come
y and the fe -
t ahand. I'm down upon us ; and there aint much danger o'
a and.rI'mdthat, because theydon't like fair fighting .  They
danger anid      e-us te
prefer to fight behind trees, or to make their at-
tacks under the cover of darkness.'
'After all they may be nothing but Root Dig.
n oncommon                                88
.n  ndooa'  gers,- and do not intend any acts of hostility'
rvidooals.                        ay,'
They're led on by a white man,' replied Bus,
ton; 'a white man as stands more nor six incb;-
es in his shoes.'
the trees as                                         i
be suspicious  ' Osborne!' I exclaimed.
a suspc     'Perhaps so ; but I don't know.. Gilmore
a good-place ad   caught aglim   o      bta
n here anandnd I cg       g   ps of a white face among
nk theycanthe painted devils, and that's all we know about
they can it. Just look at that feller, now I'
'nIam observing him. He seems determined
)n. We took to find out what kind of a state of defence we
trees. From  are in. He sees the settlers at work.'
a very good    'And it don't please him, I dare say.'
es around us.  4.,
What should you call him?'
d nervously    'A Utah '
Well could   'Where is War Path?'
usand hiding   ' Hewent with Dale.'
setling cliffs,  'And where is the trapper and guide, called
-heaven only La Roy, who joined us at White River ?
'ulsion of na- 'He shouldered old ronsides and went his
of a dizzy way. le said there was a voice calln hims
accessible to and he must obey it'
'A brave man! I would he were with us.
Poor Arthhr!'
'He was a fine lad,' answeredBtn    ad
it will make sad the heart of oncommon Florry.


BLACK RAL 1H

'That Indian is still coming towards us.',
' He's makin' for that precipice jest afore him.
When he reaches that, he'll have a good chance
to see all that's goin' on.'
'I wish he might tumble over it and break
his confounded neck'!'
' He'll be careful not to do that.. The creturs
love life as well as a white man; though some
of 'em die better. That's a darin' varmint. Cuss
his ugly picter ! If it's only a little nearer.'
'He is a daring fellow, sure enough.   He
stretches his long neck over the precipice, and
looks down.   And now nearly half his body
hangs over the yawning abyss. Wouldn't' a ri-
fle ball reach him from here ?'
At that very instant there was a sharp report.
The Indian scout swayed to and fro a moment,
grasped spasmodically at the surrounding bushes,
and then went whirling down the awful height.
'Good heavens !   He's gone 1'
' Go it, Cattridge-Box !' exclaimed Buston,
with a yell of delight.
'Hurrah fer Gilmore !' shouted the sturdy
settlers, who had been observing the progress
of the scout for the last five minutes. 'Gilmore
forever !'
Hark I All along the ragged sides of the
mountain ranges, from gorge and rock, and beet-
ling cliff, there breaks forth a yell, as if hell it-
self had cast forth its inhabitants, to give vent
to their long pent up curses.
The helpless children and females within our
eieampment heard the' terrifl outburst; some
grew deadly pale, some fainted, and others
§creame4 with terror.
'l'hat was a capital shot,' said the hunter.
'Two Shooter never did better.  But it was on.
expected, and' the red-skin didn't have time t
think of the happy huntin' grounds twice afore
he was off.'
I should like to get a good chance at one.'
You'll have a chance afore many days, my
lad. We shall have fightin enough to do for v
week to come.   Look !  I can see another ore
tur. If Ps only where Brass-Eyes is. I won
der if he sees him?'
Could he reach him, think you '

'T think eh nril.  Two Shooter's streat on

r:

I

THE FOREST' FIEND. '

80

r-,
c
II
I:r

a long shot.'
'Gilmore's hard to beat.'
' He can't be beat. He's a dead shot. When
you see old Brass-Eyes run his two lookers
along them ere sights, you may know that sun-
thin' is goin' to be rubbed out, and that imme-,
diately. 'It's a little too fur to fire, but I've a
mind to try the cretur.  By aimin' high, I think
I might posserbly finish up his snublunary con-
sarns.
'You'll have to do it quick, then, for he's
making off with himself.'
The comical old hunter was in the act of
bringing his rifle to his shoulder, when the well
known crack of Two Shooter came once more
to our ears.
'The devil sieze Brass-Eyes!' exclaimed the
disappointed hunter ;' he's cheated me out 'o
my shot. The red 'un has tumbled over.'
'You were a little to late that time, my good[
friend.'
'Jest half a second.  The varmint tipped
over kind o' graceful like, and I 'spose it won't
make much difference in the long run who set-
tied up his airthly consarns. - There's one ene-
my the less at any rate. Moses in the bulrush- L
es ! how they yell up there!'
The figure of Gilmore was now seen ap-
proaching us. He appeared calm and collected
as usual, but more serious.
'It was handsomely done,' said I, as he
joined us.
'Two Shooter never wastes good powder and
ball,' replied the trapper.
'What's the prospect?'
Bad.'
'Do you apprehend much mischief from
them.'
'If a single one of us lives to tell how I shot
them  two critters, we shall fare better than I
have reason to expect. I don't want to excite
anybody's fears ; but we're in a desperate con-
dition. There is hundreds of them varmints to
a mere handful of us.'
'What shall we do ?'
' Jest what they're doin' there ; try to make

the bark, its force being spent.           for us all.'
Occasionally a settler would put down his axe,  Several incidents of a similar character oe.
seize his rifle and blaze away at his persecutors. curred during the day.
Sometimes these shots would have effect; though  I would have whispered many words of com.
not invaribly ; for the enemy was not near fort to Flora, but there was little need of it ; she
enough as a general thing for dead shots.  was one.of the calmest and most hopeful among
The work of fortifying our mountain embos- us. . Instead of needing strength, she was able
omed home went on rapidly. A kind of fort to speak words of consolation to us. She was
formed of the trunks of the largest trees we a little paler than usual, but I noticed no oth-
could find, was soon erected. In building this, er change.  The yells of the savages did not
strength and not neatness was the sole desider- seem to terrify her ; and the sound of the firing
atum.                                      did not discompose her nerves.
Several times we feared the savages would  'I am more inured to this kind of life than
make a general attack in order to defeat our you imagine,' she said with a smile.  'Do not
purpose,                                   make yourself miserable on my account. There
But the most they did was to creep as near is One who is able to proteet us in all places.
as they dared, covered by a high rock, or under Let us not forget.His name.'
shelter of trees, fire, and not show their heads  'I am a sinful man, but since yak. desire it,
at all.                                    I will endeavor to direct my thoughts tHim.'
'I can see one approaching,' I said to the  'Do it,.not because I 4  you, but because
old trapper, who was busy at my side, .'anda it is your duty, Edward.'
when he gets'near enough, I shall fire at him.'  'I shall try to  /y ora.'
' Well, keep your eye on him, and pertend  ' Promise me, one thing.'
not to see him all the while.'               'I will--two, if you wish.'
I watchedthe red skin as he gradually drew  ' Do not expose yourself to danger uneoessa-
near.. He *as advancing under cover of a rock; rily.'
but it was not large enough to conceal his entire  ' Since my life is valued by you, I will not.'
body, and at almost every moment some portion  ' Do you know I have been thinking of
of his person was exposed. This he did not Arthur?'
appear to be aware of, so he came on.        "I saw you weep. to-day, and though you
' As soon as he fires; you take your rifle and were. What is it that you have been thinking
level it towards the rock. It wont be long of him?'

the place as strong as possible. Let's go and
help 'em.
We all set ourselves to work right earnest-
ly to erect a kind of fort with ramparts where
the women and children could find a place of
comparative safety while we were able to fight
for them.
The enemy did not suffer us to proceed
peaceably with the work, but annoyed us with
an incessant firing.  As they had but a few
rifles among them, most'of their shots fell short
but those who ventured within reach of our ri-
fles were sure to be the sufferers. Several of
their balls fell near us, and once, one struck a
tree I was cutting into ; but it merely wounded

81

afore he'll pop his head up ; when he does
that let fly and take him right between the twt
eyes,' said Gilmore.
The red-face came on. He reached the rock.
I saw him aim and fire. The moment he fired
his bead disappeared.
'Now's your time,' said Gilmore.
I levelled my rifle towards the rock.
'Be patient; his head will come up soon,'
added the trapper.
'I was patient, and the head came up as pre-
dicted. I fired, and the head disappeared.
'He's got it,' said Gilmore. 'I wish all the
reptiles were sarved in the same way. It would
be better for you and Flora-it would be better

3
3
r
J
s


82                               'BLACK
That he may still be living; I dreamed
ghat he was last night.'
There is much in dreams,' I replied, hoping
to encourage her by my seeming faith.
I know there is, but you do not think so.'
'Didn't I say so ?'
'You did; but you know why_ As I was
about to tell you, I dreamed of seeing Arthur,
and he seemed well, and in no danger. You
will think me weak ; yet I have felt less uneas-
iness since on his account.
' It makes my heart glad to hear this from
you,' I answered.  ' Your. dream will prove
sooth, I doubt not.'
' He was a good brother,' added Flora.
'A noble fellow. It will be a happy day
when we meet.'
Happy indeed,' said Flora, with a sigh.
CHAPTER XV.
SKIRMISHING.
EFORE night we were in a tolerable
state of defence. The structure whicl
was to supply the place of a fort, wa
completed, and the men were employed in build
ding a kind of breast-work around it. This
was also built of the trunks of trees, arrange
with strength and order.
If driven from this wooden rampart, we couli
.etreat to our fort, and keep the enemy at ba
there.'
'What do you think of this work?' Gilmor
asked.
I think it will do us good service. It i
well and strongly built. I see nothing to hit
der us from fighting a good battle.'
'So we shall, my boy. We've been in on
tight place afore ; but it was'nt much tight
nor"this, arter all. We stood beside each ot
er then, and we'll do it agin. Only a sing
thread separated us from the gateway of etern
ty then. I've thought about it a great ian
times since, and wondered to myself that
youngster like you, could be so cool in the fa
and eyes of desth, Perhaps you 'wouldn't
so wili to die now, my poor boy, Ther
Flory, you know, to think about.'

RALPH

e
h
d
U3
a e
n
n
It

be
e's

to worst.'
'But few persons would be required to de-
fend so narrow a pass.'

wI

The kind old man paused and wiped his eyes
with the sleeve of his hunting shirt.
'Poor gal!' he added, ' perhaps she'll be
spared.  God knows how to take care of his
own.'
'Let us hope so,' I replied. ' Let us hope-
and pray that it may be thus.  As, you haveF
observed, you and I have been in a straighter
place than this and escaped.'k
'I've got to mark here the critter made with
the burnin' brand ; and I shall be the last hu.
man bein' to forget it,' answered my friend.
'When do you think they will attack us ?'
'I should'nt wonder if they did to-night. In
fact they'll be skirmishin' all night-perhaps-all
the time.'
'There's one thing that we must think of.'
'What's that, boy '?'
'What we shall eat and drink, provided we
should be beseigedI for any length of time.'
'An old backwoodsman like me wouldn't be
likely to, forget that. There has'nt been a
minit in the day but I've bad my mind on't. If
s the critters can't fight us out, they'll starve us
.out ; that's what they mean to do.'
'"How long do you suppose what provisions
d we have will last us with economy?'
'Not much more nor three days at the long-
d est.'
y    'Let me ask you one thing more : Do you
think it possible for any of us to pass through
e the narrow defile by which we entered this place
at the deepest and darkest hour of the night,
s and return again ?'-
n-   ' I won't say that it can't be done, but I'll
venture to say that the human critter thatunder-
e takes that, will go on a forlorn hope-and you
er need'nt expect to see him come back aginx.-
h. Them's the nature. of my honest senterments,
le roughly expressed, accordin' to my lateral abil-
ji. ities. , When it comes, to that, mylad, I'll be
y the man as will go.',
a    ' We shall'see:about that,' I answered.
ce 'I've made up my mind to it, if worst comes

THE FOREST FIEND.

83

' I know it, but when that's done they must  ' You'll have to climb for it,' retorted Gil-
be outwitted., We are commanded to be eun more.

Iy
1"
pi
ti

ning as serpents, and that's what we must do to
git along with these Ingin indervidooals.'
Our whole party now took possession of the
new structure, and forlorn as our condition was,
we felt a sensation of relief when we found our-
selves surrounded by those strong, though rude
walls ; but it was not on our account that we
felt relieved- -there were helpless ones with us
for whom we cared.'
'How much like the Runnin' Ivy she looks,'
whispered Buston to me, looking significantly at
Flora, while she busied herself in performing
woman's offices in the new dwelling.
'Poor girl !' said'I, thinking of the danger
that surrounded her.
'Have a stout heart,' said the trapper, 'I
dare say there won't be no more nor half on us
killed, and a few burned at the stake'; and it's
kind o' consolin' like to' think on at this pertic-
erler period o' time.'
Consoling ?'
'In course it is.  I say that perhaps there.
won't be no more nor half or two thirds on us
rubbed out, and leave the probationer state.-
Now we can't tell who'll go, or who'll stay,
because it would make us uneasy if we did.-
We can set our minds to rest, and say inardly,
it may be him, or it may be her, or this one, or
that one, or tether one, and it leaves us a hope
to cling to.'
'I can't see it in the light you do. The
thought of half of us being roasted, in the way
you hint at, makes me shudder.'
'But you must'nt think it's yourself that's
goin' to be agonized, but some other onfortu-
nate indervidooal.'
'I think we shall fight some before any of us
will beroasted,' said a settler who had been lis-
teningxi4itely to the conversation.
'Them's the nater of my own in'ard senter-
ments,' responded the trapper, who stood near
us.
'Wbzen it grows a little darker,' resumed
Buston, 'I shall go out and take a scalp, the
Lord willin' and the weather permittin'.'

'Perhaps so, Brass Eyes. We shall have
more knowledge on that perticerler subject arter
we know.'
When the shades of evening began to gather,
Buston loaded, his rifle with great care. He then
sat down and smoked a few whiffs of the frag-
rant weed with his usual carelessness of manner.
He then arose and left the fort, for such I must
call it, for want of a more appropriate name.
Our horses were all fastened within the breast
works,. with the exception of Two Forty, he
being allowed to nip the grass without, close to
the rampart.
'Two Forty come here ; I-want to see a you
a minnit, and perhaps more nor that time.?,
Two Forty -pricked up his ears, and came
briskly towards his master.
' Doyou feel willin' to trots me round this
'ere holler square, old feller?'
Two Forty rubbed his nose against Buston's
arm, as if to signify his willingness to trot his
master anywhere he might want to go.
'I'd recommend you to go as if you'd been
somewhat kicked in eend,' continued the trap-
per, vaulting upon the highly trained animal.
'What in the name o' the Bible are ,,you
going' to do ?' asked Gilmore.
'Keep down your religious feelin's, Brass
Eyes. The Lord willin', and the weather per-
mittin', I shall ride out for the gineral benefit of
my in'ard constituteo. You'd better git your
shootin' irons in . , because it is'nt onpossi-
ble that there m    }'a chance for you to go
into the red nigger  Ji  ldin' material afore
long.
'Like bricks, you mean ?'
'I don't mean nothin' shorter,     Ees.
Go it, Two Forty.'
And Two Forty sprang out of the   fold re
like a wild and maddened steed that had never
camped the bit, or felt the weight 'of the sad-
dle.
' What mad trick is the rattle-headed critter
tryin' now, I wonder?' exclaimed the trapper.
'He won't never die in his 'IA.." JMt ee thi


-                                             3s                                THE    FORE
iF
84.                                BLACK     RALPH
calm as the calmest, when the ruddiest cheeks
onacecountable varmint go.  The Old Nick's ly to be expected from one of his years, follow,  grow pale: incomparable Flora.
in that hoss, or he never entered any critter on ed by myself and settlers.  Buston dashed past  I am  digressing from my subject.  The re-
the airth.                                   us, and we fired several shots with good effect,  membrance of the past has wiled me away;
Away sped Buston without saddle or bridle, judging by what we could see, and the yells   forgive me gentle reader.
whooping and yelling like an Indian.   With which each fire occasioned.                       We stood there in the moonlight and fought
increasing speed he swept around the mountain For a few moments the bullets went singing as long as our balls could reach the enemy;
enclosure, followed by a continuous fire;from about our ears in dangerous proximity. One of bjut when they retreated to their mountain fast-
the enemy; and answering cries of derision and the settlers was wounded in this rencontre, and it nesses, we returned to our fortification, where
defiance.                                    was a long time before he fully recovered.     we found pale faces and anxious he
As he dashed on like a madman, guiding       I wish I could jest put my eye on that white  us. Two Forty was grazing quietly close to the
Two Forty with his feet and hands, he seemed turn-coat for the space of a second,' said the rampart, perfectly unmoved by his late ex-
to form a part of the animal, and govern him trapper.  As he spoke, a ball whistled through1ploits.
by the will only.                         - his foraging cap.1                                ' A certain number of us will watch, while
I've seen a great deal o' riding' in my day,'  'Tis'nt the first time, by no means,' he added,  the rest sleep,' said Gilmore, 'for we shall all
said Gilmore, 'but I never seed anythin' like coolly. 'That's happened afore, more nor once;  have n' ed of stren gti'.
that afore.'                                 but a man can't die 'till his time comes. I'll  ''I will take watch first,' said J.  'I never
'Except once,' I replied,                 fix the critter as-fired that.'                can sleep while danger is near.  Do not speak
'Right, boy ; when Black Ralph leaped that   Gilmore was as good as his word. He fired,  to me of sleep  Look at these helpless ones,
chasm !'                                     and I distinctly saw acdusky son of the wilder-  aud listen to those ditant shouts.'
-It: don't seem possible that he can live to derness go down.y                             It's on account of these same helpless ones
make the circuit of the valley,' as the savages How often, since that time have I recalled that I want you to get all the rest you can,' re-
kept raining their balls after the fearless hunter. the strange scenes of that period of my life.-  plied the trapper.
But Two Forty bore his master nobly on- Even in the calmer sleep of riper years, have      ' None of us'll be likely to sleep much to-
:ard, despite the leaden shower.            they gassed and repassed vividly before me. I  night, Brass Eyes,' said Buston.  'They'll try
Much to my amazement, he accomplished have seen the tall form of Gilmore, terrible in    to surround us afore morning , or I ain't no judge
the circumference of the valley unharmed by! battle-the first to fight, the last to fly; and I  of red-skins,'
powder and ball.  Suddenly Two Forty turned have seemed to hear the crack of 'Two Shooter,'  'I should'nt wonder,' answered Gilmore;
to retrace his steps, influenced, doubtless, by a and have started up to see the keen eye that 'but we'll be ready to meet 'em and trust in
well hnown sign from his rider; but instead of took such fatal aim, and knew how to send a  Providence.'
going in a circle he flew off in a tangent; and bullet home-home to the heart.  This is not  Not one of us laid down to sleep that night.
away he went, climbing up the spur of a moun- all: I have seen Buston-with my dreamy eye   Every one was ready and willing to do his best.
tain where the ascent was less steep and dan- -mounted upon Two Forty, flying over prai- We took our places silently at the breast-work,
gerous. Before we had time to recover from ries, up mountains, speeding over every danger- and with anxiety, looked continually toivard the
the new astonishment, which this bold maneu- ous place, dealing death, returning in safety- a dim and shadowy mountain sides. Hour after
ire occasioned, he was within rifle distance of cheering all hearts once more with his broad hour sped on, and no sound disturbed the re-
the enemy. Two Forty suddenly became motion- humor.                                       pose of the quiet air, save at long intervals,
less as stone, and instantly the report of.Bus-  Gilmuore---Buston ;oyou wll not he forgotten  when the deep and melancholy cry of the wolf
ton's rifle announced that the object of this if God should lengthen out .my life to the was borne to-our ears,. or when the night-owl
daringnot was accomplished.                  years of antedeluvian ages. You have stood   sent forth his dismal hootings.  Where were
The moment the rifle cracked,, the horse turned by me in the hour of danger; your  d though  our foes   sleep set its silent seal upon
and made for the fort, As a natural conse- rough words have comforted me gs hours their did? Were they dreaming per-
quence the Indians rushed from their coverts, of extreme peril.                  -        chance l~leh*nd of souls ?
and many of them    came whooping after the1   But there is one other vision 4hat gill never  All   et   rse upon every side of us the
rider and his steed.                        fade, and it is easily recalled. m t is the vision  shouts    The foe had crept down from
Now's or ohanceu' exclaimedsGilmore and of a yQuthful maiden-fair as the dWllers in their          he clefts of the rock,' thinking
brandishing .Two $hooter' over his head he theMoslem prophets' heaven-f     S he firm- to take        fort by storm. We poured in
darte4 from the enclosure, with a speed scarce- est, when the nerves of strong an are tried; 6

upon them a deadly volley, which seemed to dis-
appoint and enrage them. They had hoped to
find us unprepared. For a time the firing was
incessant, and the Utah's held their own very
well, considering that Indians are not good fight-
ers, save in the woods. . In one respect we had
the advantage of them; our shots told a tale of
death, while theirs rattled harmless, as a gen-
eral thing, against the logs raised for our pro-
tection. Several of the settlers', wives made
themselves useful during the engagement, not
unfrequently loading guns. Before morning
the firing ceased, and the savages fell back to
their mountain fastnesses.
Not feeling inclined to sleep, lest we might
afford the enemy some advantage, we naturally
began to converse upon various subjects relating
to Indians, and their mode of warfare. The
name of Black Ralph was spoken more than
once, when a settler by the name of Gray told
the following story :
'Before I settled upon the Red Fork of the,
Arkansas River, I \vas in the habit of trading
with the Indians. I have made many journey
from Westport and St. 1ouis, up as far as Fort
Laramie, and I have been as far as Fort Wallah
Wallah, visiting the various tribes of Indians
with whom the whites were on trading terms.
During these excursions, I usually joined
some fur company, as .it would have been very
dangerous travelling alone. The articles of
merchandise which I carried would have proved
too. tempting to the red men ; I should have
been murdered in the first dark pass, or in fact
anywhere.
About a year and a half ago I left Fort Lar-
amie in company with a party of trappers em-
ployed by the North American Fur Company.
My objet in going so far was to Trade with the
Nez Perces, Shoshonies, Bannecks, and othe
friendly tribes living near them.
When we reached the Southgass, I was ta-
ken sick. I awoke one morning after a troub-
led sleep, with a dull, heavy pain in the back of
my head and limbs.
My neck was stiff, my tong ee as dr adn~
parched, and my skin was hot and eei~li,"
4e,

ST FIEND.

85


86

BLACK 1K(LPH

I arose and washed my head in cold wter
and strove to shake off the impending sickness,
but it was too firmly fixed upon me to be shaken
off so easily. When I had walked about a
short time, a gloomy, desponding feeling tookI
possession of me, and I went into the camp and
laid down.
The pain in my limbs and head increased,
..  and I felt a burning heat in all parts of my
frame. I had a fever upon me. The trappers
ate their breakfast as usual, and prepared to go
on their way.
Come, Gray,' said one, ' be lively-it's time
to be moving.'
I can't help it,' I replied, in. a feeble voice.
I'm sick, and can't go any farther.'
'He's got a regular fever,' said one. 'It'll
be a long time before he'll be able to travel.'
'You won't desert me?' I said, with some
anxiety of manner.
My companions looked at each other in si-
lence.
'It would be an act of inhumanity to desert
; e,' I added.
suppose some one of us must stay,' re-
plied the leader of the company, at length.
'Who will it be ? is the next question,' added
another,
I will reward the man liberally who stays,'
I said.
After considerable conversation which 1 could
not hear, a Frenchman, who had acted in the
capacity of voayaguer in our passage up the Mis-
souri, volunteered to remain with me, for which
service I was to pay him a stipulated sum.
Now I liked this fellow the least of all of them.
There was not a single feature of his visage that
was not ugly in the extreme. He in fact car-
ried one of those villainous faces which marks a
man an arrant rogue wherever he goes. With
such a face he could not conceal his character-
or disguise it for a moment. He was no favor-
ite among the trappers. They said little to him
and he kept himself sullenly aloof.
Ibelieve every one of them was rejoiced to
find any kud~ of a pretext to get rid of his com-
pany.

Such WMs the person who was left to care for
me during the weary and dreary hours of sick-
ness. A poor companion indeed, even in health.
He seemed more willing to tarry than I could
have expected ; but there appeared to me, to be a
most diabolical smile upon his sinisterlips all
th e  w h ile.d                       si t
he prod uce d an old black pipe, and sitting
down where I lay smoked without interruption
for an hour, favoring me occasionally with a
glance from beneath his matted and heavy
brows.
'Do you know much about fevers?' I asked.
'Moudien ! I know all about them,' he an-
swered, with a hoarse laugh.
' Have you any knowledge of roots and
herbs ?'
'Le diable, I know all about roots and herbs
too. Have you got any tobacco?'
I attempted to get him some tobacco from my
package of good, but I could not.
It's in that,' I said pointing.
'I'll help myself,' said he ; and in an instant
his great red hand was tearing open the pack-
age. His eyes sparkled with pleasure, as he
beheld the valuables contained therein.
I could not help shuddering at the singular
expression of his face.
' You'll find a lot of the weed there, and you
may use as much of it as you like.
A grim smile was the only reply to that lib-
eral offer.
My fever increased during the day. But my
strange attendant did nothing but regale him-
self with smoking, and it would seem that he en-
joyed it amasingly. If I turned restless from
side -to side, he smoked; if I uttered Ii moan of
distress, still be smoked on unmoved.
When noon.came, he replenished the fired
cooked a great slice of meat, and ate voracious-
ly. The odor of the roasted meat, andthe way
he had of eating it made me-sicker t ver.
While I lay there tossing upihard
couch of fever, a curious idea suggeditself
to my mind. I resolved to eo~*    tepain,
lie still as possible, and impress with
the belief that I was asleep. I .to obey

A

THE FOREST FIEND.

81

this inward impulse, and have reason to suppose  I was great  astonished to see such a change
that I succeeed'in feigning a pretty sound sleep. in his manner.
But I kept one eye upon my kind nurse, you   ' What's the matterY' I asked.
may rest well assured.                      'I've seen Black Ralph !' said he.
When my breathing became deep and regu-    'No !
lar, like the respiration of a sleeper, he began 'But I have.'
to look at me more attentively, and mutter to 'Then probably your last hour is near,' I re-
himself.                                   plied, wishing to impress him with that belief
As I apparently kept on, his countenance as much as possible. 'No person ever liveslioe
grew fiercer in its expression, and he shook his after seeing him.'
fist at me several times; then he looked at my 'So the Ingins say,' he answered.
Indianmerchandize with a greedy eye. This   'How did he look?'
was not all; he got up and handled them over 'Like nothin' human,' he replied, shaking
.i .ea .ui.slP 'erdeg
with evident satisfaction. He was thinking how his head dubiously. 'He rode a monstrous
much he could get for them if they were fairly horse whose feet didn't seem to touch the ground,
in his possession.                         and he went like a messenger of Satan him.
Near the package lay my loaded pistols. I self.'
shall never forget the demoniac expression of .'Is hea mortal, do you think ?'
his whole visage when he laid his hand upon  'He's a devil,' he answered, with an expres-
them. le was in the act of cocking the weap- sion I shall remember to my dying day.'
on, when I thought it was about time to begin  'They say he always appears to those who
to wake up. I did so with a well counterfeited have been doing wrong, or meditating so
start and a moan.                          great crime,' I remarked.
Tefellow threw down the pistols instantly,  The malignant villain fluxed hisa
and commenced re-filling his old dirty pipe with eyes upon me as if to read the silent o
great assiduity.                           of my mind; but his face was as whit.
'This never will do,' I said to myself. 'There winding sheet.
must be an end to this, or to one of us before a  'I don't affirm that you have bee
great while.'                              any wrong,' I added, ' or that you have medi-
' You told me you knew something of the na- tated any crime. I am only referring to the In-
ture of different kinds of roots and herbs,' I said dian notion of his character. If I were in your
with affected composure.                   situation, I should prepare for the last jour-
He nodded assent, without taking the pipe ney.'
from his mouth.                              He produced his pipe again, and attempted to
' Well, if you know anything good for fevers, smoke ;. but he did not appear to enjoy it. lie
I want you to go arid get it, and prepare it for threw out a few whiffs, then held it in his hand
me. When I recover, I will pay you well for until it went out.
your trouble.'                               How it rejoiced my heart to see this sudden
I'll go,'  replied, ' but you'd better go to change in his appearance.  Perhps'fear would
sleep firs.* before you wake up, 1'll be ready preve t him  frompcarryin  out his desigof
for .odt                                   murdering me while I slept.  Full of this idea,
'iou probably would,' thought I.       you will know JgI talked to him in the wa I
'Do not delay,' I said, 'for the fever is burn- did.
ing me.'                                     About an hhii before sunset he got up and
Rather unwillingly the fellow got up and left went out. He did not  turn. Night  t in
me. ~ad been gone but a short time before I felt very sick, but mtaan edl to get some sticks
he returned pale and trembling,            and made a fire.


88                                BLACK RALPH
The waters of Sandy River flowed on, within  It was- the body of the Frenchman. I re-
gun-shot of me.  I crawled down the bank and coiled with an exclamation of horror. I had
drank freely ; for my thirst was intolerable. I not entertained the remotest idea that any dan.-
then made the best of my way back, and laid ger was really neai- him, though I had striven
down by the fire.                          to excite his fears.
The deep draught of pure water which I had  ' Strange are the ways of Providence,' I mur-
taken had a good effect. A gentle perspiration mured ; as I strove to overcome the repugnance
appeared all over my body, and in a little time and dread which I felt, and approached the body.
I was wrapped in a profound slumber, forgetful Upon the left side directly over his false
of my late companion, Black Ralph, and every- heart, was a small hole, about the size of a corn-
thin  elsemon rifle ball. Death had knocked there and
The sun was shining, and the birds were sing- found an entrance.
ing when I awoke. The first breathings of a   I sighed as I looked at him.
delicious morning cooled the fever of my teas-  'Poor wretch!' thought I, 'you were -unfit
ples. I looked about me ; the Frenchman was to.live, and as unfit to die ; but God is just.'
no where in sight.                            Deeply impressed, I left the spot, while the
What a sensation of relief I experienced when name of Black Ralph was associated with all
I found that he had not returned ; for I knew I that was strange and terrible.
was fully in his power.                       In a few days I was sufficiently. recovered
I arose; feeling somewhat better, though still to travel, and reached the country of the Shos-
feverish and sick.     moniess without accident.
.Prompted by some impulse, I hardly know                     -
alked slowly down to the river again           CHAPTER      XVI.
iag off my garments, plunged into the               FINALE.
waters. I shall always remember what -;   HAT'S a good story,' said Buston.
ul sensation of relief I experienced at    ' A capital one,' I remarked.  'It illus-
ent. My blood ceased to boil with        rates the character of that unknown
my brow   to throb as if the veins and strange being called Black Ralph. It would
of my forehead were bursting ; my tongue no seem that he has indeed the singular faculty of
longer falt parched and burning in my mouth.  ubiquity-existing in all places at the same
The fever had taken a favorable turn, and time.'
the crisis had past. I felt like a new man. The  'It's just as I've told you from the first,' said
bath operating so favorably, I staid in the water Gilmore. ' He's a critter as can't be tracked
a long time,                               nor found out; one as deals out death in silence
I came out at last, and while I drew on my one as it isn't best to speak on too much.
clotges tried to feel grateful for the mercy that  'And yet it appears to me,' I answered, 'that
had 6een shown me.                         he never does any real hurt ; it is those who
I returned to the camp, took my rifle, and meditate "treachery only that need  fear him.
walked until I began to perspire.          To the whites he seems a guardian angel.'
Just as I turned to go back, I saw a large buck  'Them's the nature o' my feelin's.f Give me
looking at me with the greatest apparent curi- your hand, boy,' and the old trapper gave my
osity. I immediately fired and wounded him ; hand a hearty shake.'
but the wound did not prevent him from run- ' What thinks oncommon Florry ?' .asked
ning several hundred yards. I followed on at Buston.
my leisure. Before I reached the spot. where  .'3Just as our good friend Gilmore does,' she
he fell, I saw a humnar4 body, cold stiff and dead, answered, with her usual kindness o manner.
Iyingk upon the ground                     IDo you give me your hand on that i'

THE FOREST FIEND.

'Both on 'em, if you wish ; and you shall
ride that oncommon hoss as long's he's able to
trot out any human eretur.'
Upon the following day our fortification was
strengthened by additional labor, and. consid-
erable skirmishing took place.

89

spite of all I could do the bullets would go whist-
ling over my head most musically. I resolved
to see, if possible, something of the strength of
the enemy,.and I cherished a secret hope that I
might meet Osborne-or rather that I might
see him.

'I observed that a constant firing was kept  I felt myself in the right mood to encounter
up from a certain quarter which was in the him then, and the thought of mercy or pity was
neighborhood of several large rocks. This an- not within me.
noyed the men very much while they were at  II worked my way onward with cat-like .cun-
work. My own temper, as the kind reader ning. I knew well that I was performing an
know~ was not of the mildest kind, and I be- act of daring which few men would attempt,
gan to grow disagreeably excited ; in short my however experienced they might be in Indian
evil nature got the mastery of me. I resolved warfare.
to put a stop to their sport in that particular di-  I was now quite near the nearest of the ene-
rection, or give them a chance to fire with some my, and the balls still whistled over my head.
effect.                                     And often the shots of my friends from the en-
Accordingly when the night set in, without campment struck near and around me ; thus was
making known my purpose to any person, I     exposed to a new danger.
watched for an opportunity and glided from the,  Ireached a large and broken hedge, from
encampment, as I believed, unobserved.     each side of which the red foe was firing. Noth-
Anger often makes men imprudent, and it ing daunted, I crept onward with additional
sometimes makes them cunning and cautious ; caution. I could now hear their voices distine
'and the last was the ease with me. ly when they spoke in an ordinary tone.
Perhaps few persons are aware how much one  A few minutes more sufficed to takes
resolute man can accomplish when lie taxes the place where the ledge terminated abrub I
every faculty of soul and body. He can per- forming a covert for the enemy. "Lyigod i
form wonders.                              my face, I drew myself to its edge, -and looked
Strengthened by the fixed purpose I felt with- down upon the heads of about a dozen Indians.
in me, I crept towards the rocks which covered The ledge of rocks formed a fine bulwark for
the foe. I was protected from view by they them.   Having fired they would instantly re-
stinted shrubbery, and a rank growth of wild treat behind it, and remain in perfect security.
sage, as well as by the broken nature of the  In the attitude I have named I observed their
ground. movements sometiArk. I heard the leaves 'rus-
T went on slowly but boldly, and dragging my tie behind me. Alarmed I turned, ,y head
rifle after me. I had a large hunting knife in quickly to see what new danger menaced.
my belt, and an excellent pair of pistols 'good  'Hush!' whispered a well known voice.
with a ball' and 'sure fire.'                 ' Good heavens, Buston ! is it you'?'
Now in the hands of many persons these would  'You may bet your life on it,' replied the
have been almost harmless ; but not so with me hunter, in the same tone. ' Come on, old Brass-
-for I had the courage necessary to use them Eyes.'
-and courage will render tny man formidable,  'What, is Gilmore coming also?'
if you give him anything like a fair chance.  'Yes ; he would do it. But aint you a
I should think I was all of two hours in go- brick, though i'
ing two hundred yards up the mountain side.  Then turning to Gilmore :-
I wag careful during this time to keep out of the  'Hurry up, old Two Shooter; here's ,a.ance
range of the firing as much as possible ; but in for a sprinklin of death.'


THE FOREST FIEND.                     91

'lEst!' whispered Gilmore.
For several minutes we all looked down in
silence upon the unsuspecting red men. We
drew back and gazed enquiringly at each other
in the moonlight.
'It's best to have a shot all round,' said I ;
'if it proves our last, so be it ; and may heaven
protect those we leave behind.'
' Two Shooter's ready,' replied Gilmore.
'Let each one select his Ingin,' replied Bus-
ton.
'And let the pistols do something said Gil-
more.
'And the knife!' I added, with. peculiar
emphasis.
Knife it is!' answered Buston.
'There wont be no great chance for it,' re-
turned Gilmore.
'You've got a terrible ugly look about the
eyes,' whispered the hunter.
Once more we gazed down upon our enemies.
Some of them wore loading their guns, others
were telling of their daring exploits at different
es and places ; and a third party was engaged
king a buffalo's hump.
Tach of us selected our man. The fellow
w  hmyheart I covered with the muzzle of my
rifle, was pouring powder into his hand, while
Gilmore, I observed, levelled at one who was
relating many acts of bravery, with violent ges-
ticulations, and a multitude of words.
'Are you all ready?' I asked.
All ready !' was the whispered response.
Let them have it then,' I -hissed from  be-
tween my fixed teeth.
We fired simultaneously.  The Indian who
was   pouring  powder  into  his palm, fell
backward with it still in his hand ; the fel-
low who was reciting his bloody deeds, left off
in the middle of his story; the one who was
roasting the hump, fell across hid own fire.
Getting upon our feet, we ran to a spot where
the ledge terminated less boldly, and leaped
down among the Utahs. They were struck with
a sudden panic, and fled from us.
' We followed and shot down several with our
pistols. Their yells attracted the attention of

others who came rushing to their aid. Each of
us grappled with a foe, and our hunting knives
were soon reeking with crimson gore.
The first one I met hand to hand fell beneath  s
the well-directed blow j not so with the second ;
for he was a strong active savage, and he strug-
gled hard for the mastery.
We both fell to the ground, and tugging at
each other's hearts, dealt furious blows. But I
proved the stronger of the two, and when I
arose I was grim and bloody, and my knife was
quivering in his heart.
It's time to go !' cried Gilmore.  ' We've
done enough for one night.'
Go it, Cattridge-Box !  Give 'em death !'
shouted Buston, in his loud ringing tones, at the
same instant striking down a savage with his
clubbed rifle.
Heedless of the warning voice of Gilmore, I
sprang at another Utah, and with a dextrous
movement buried my knife in his bosom.
The trapper and Buston sprang forward to my
aid ; for the enemy began to press upon me in}
great numbers.
Though mirthful on ordinary occasions, Bus-
ton was a lion in battle. The enemy gave
back.   Gilmore, seized me by the arm  and
dragged me away.
'Now run.for life!' he exclaimed.     S
I hesitated.
'Think of Oncnmmon Florry!' said Buston.
The words acted like a charm upon me, andF
I ran for the fort with a speed that defied suc-
eessful pursuit. We had accomplished half the
distance when we were startled by a general
discharge of fire arms.
The enemy had surrounded our fort during our
absence, and we were cut off    We made a
short halt, loaded our rifles, and with loud shouts-
attacked the enemy in the rear, with the fixed
determination to force our way to the encamp-
ment, or perish in the attempt.
This bold manoeuvre took the Utahs by sur-
prise.
Not knowing our numbers, they probably sus-
pected there were many of us. They gave way,
and we reached the fort in safety, greatly to

the joy of our friends, who were getting extreme-
ly anxious on our account.
' It'll learn 'em a good lesson,' said the trap-
per.  ' They know now what kind of critters
they've got to dial, with.'
'Oncommon Florry is looking at you,' whis-
pered Buston.
I looked up and met the gaze of Flora. She
averted her eyes instantly, and a faint blush re-
lieved for an instant the marble paleness of her
face.   .
'You'd better, wash your upper story a little,
and your hands too. Your present appearance
aint jest the sort to please the ladies, by no
means,' added the hunter.
As 1I passed Flora, to do as my friend sug-
gested, she placed a small pocket mirror in my
hand. I glanced at it and returned it instant-
ly, for I was startled at my own looks.
In a short time the firing without ceased,
and was not renewed till the next day. At the
urgent solicitation of friends, I laid down and
slept soundly. jI awoke greatly refreshed,.and
endowed with new hope and courage.
' The provision is gettin' short,' said the trap.
per, when we were alone. 'I've made up myj
mind to get out o' this place to-night hnd kill a
buffalo.'
'That's easier said than done.'
'I know it ; but there's nothin' onpossible.
Who would have thought that you could have
done what you did last night, and live through it;
and yet you did live through it; well, what
we're talkin' of seems hard to accomplish, and
yet it may be done. It's a parallel case.'
' I will go with you.'
'That's what I was afeared of ; I'd rather go
alone.'
' What did you ' say?' asked Buston, who
joined us at that moment.
'We were speaking about going through the'
defile in quest of food.'
'Two Forty and I are calculated for that
kind o' business,' replied thle hunter.  'We'll
take the job off from your hands .'
Fix it just as you please,' said I, ' only do
not expose yourself unnecessarily.' .
There was considerable skirmishing during

the day, resulting in nothing very important to
eitherparty.
A dark, stormy night set in. The thunder,
heard faintly in the distance at first, now broke
over our heads in terrible volleys. The light-
ning's flashed along the heavens, and the rain
began to descend in torrents. A tree, not far
from the encampment, was struck and shivered
from the tops to the roots.
'It's a fearful night,'.said Flora.
' Yes; the demon of the storm and the thun-
der rides triumphant. See ! that tree is on fire.
What a flash that was!'
'It lighted the whole extent of the mountain
ranges, and I saw distinctly the faces of our
foes,' answered Flora.
'The critters are afeared o' thunder. In
times like this they think the Great Spirit is an-
gry,' said the trapper.
'.Perhaps now would be a good time to strike
a blow,' I added.
'On such a terrible night, as this ?' asked
Flora, with faltering accent  'Somehow it
seems wrong to seek the lives of our fellow mor-
tals while the elements are in such fearful t rn-
motion.'
'What we do is in self defence, Flora.'
Buston now drew Gilmore aside, and they
conferred together in a low tone.  I heard the
latter say ' I'll see to that,' and soon he left the  -
fort.
Flora and myelf were left standing alone at
the door of the same.
'The storm abates nothing of its fury,' I ob-
served.
'On the contrary it rages with greater vio-
lence.  What a fearful crash that was ! It.
shakes the mountain ranges, as it goes echoing
among them.   Think of the power pf Him who
is able to govern even the elements in their
fiercest moods.'
At that instant a blinding flash illuminated
the whole valley, and the rugged elevations that
fenced it in.
'I thought that flash revealed the figure of
a man,' remarked my fair and brave companion.
' Of an Indian, you mean.
' A white man, Edward. Look toward te

99                  BLACK RALPH


92

BLACK

spot where I am pointing, and when the next
sheet of flame lights up the valley, you will per-
haps see him.'
I followed her directions, and beheld distinct-i
ly the tall form of Gilmore. He was half way
up the mountain side. I turned to look ,for
Buston.  When I found him, he was painting
his face with various strange pigments unknown
to me.
Where is Gilmore going?' I asked anx-
iously.
'To git an Ingin dress,' he answered. I'm
bound on an expedition, and must have one.'
'But how is he to procure one?'
'He'll strip one of the dead ones, and if he
*an't do no better, he'll use the knife.'
'That's a dangerous undertaking. I must
follow him. The lightning will reveal him to
the enemy.'
' So it would you, if you should go after him.-
Stay where you are. I'll risk Gilmore where I
wouldn't ris    yself.  He'll be back in the
oguie of Three quarters of an hour. The var-
ints are kind o' bewildered now ; the thunder
. d lighining puts a damper on their courage.
'You intend, doubtless, to pass -through the1
defile to-night?'
You've guessed it, my lad. Two Forty
and Iare bound to shine.'
When he had finished painting, he took a
buffalo skin and cut it into several pieces.
These pieces he bound on to the feet of Two
Forty. He was thus employed when I returned
to the side of Flora..
'I have been watching the bold trapper,' she
said. 'He is walking directly into the face and
eyes of the enemy. It is a pity that such a
brave  ian should throw away his life.'
Again the lightning flashed, and sent its
broad glare of light along the mountains; but
Gilmore had disappeared.
' I failed to see him that time,' remarked
Flora.
'He'll be more cautious how he advances,
probably, as hie approaches them.'
The next time hI saw the brave old trapper by
the lightning's red lamnp, he waf fighting with
the enemy-one mantoo many.

RALPH
Who will follow ' I cried, and seizing my
airms, was rushing from the encampment, when
Flora laid her hand quietly upon my arm, say-
ing
'Stay, Edward.  The old man is victorious.-
The last flash of lightning revealed him standing
unharmed and alone. There, that flash revealed
him returning to us.'
Flora was right. In a short time the trapper
made his appearance, bearing a small bundle;
it was an Indian's dress.,
'Three cheers for Brass-Eyes !' said Buston.
' Go it, Cattridge-Box !' And three as hearty
cheers went up from the fort as ever arose amid
the din of a terrific storm.
I glanced at Gilmore's hands, and perceived
that they were not of the natural color, the blade
in his belt was of the same sanguine hue.
Buston took the dress without a word of in-.
quiry, and soon returned to us the exact coun-
terpart of a Utah Indian.
He mounted his famous steed, and with his
usual-.
Go it, Two Forty,' sprang, from the enclo-
sure, and soon disappeared in the deep darkness.
Gradually the reverberating thunder ceased to
break over our heads ; the lightning grew fainter
and less vived, and long before morning the
storm had passed.
The following day the Indians were unusu-
ally quiet, and we judged by certain movements
which we noticed a general attack that was medi-
tated sometime during the coming night.
The usual precautions were observed, and all
went on quietly until about one o'clock. At
that hour the mountain ranges were suddenly
lighted by bright fires which streamed up one af-
ter another, and seemed to dance about in a
singular manner.
'That's the work of a white man,' said Gil-
more. Them lights are- caused by pitch-pine
torches, and they mean to burn us.'
' I doubt whether they can make these ma-
terials burn,' I replied-.
' Some of these trunks was putty dry when
we placed 'em here, 'and if they hadnt a been,
it wouldn't have taken a great while to dry
then in the hot suns we have here. They in-

THE FORE

ST FIEND.

tend to come down upon us in a body, throw with them several months, but I knew little or
their blazing torches on to our fott, and all nothingof her history, until her heroic conduct
around it. If they succeed in setting it on fire attracted my attention while we were beseiged
we are lost ; but you'd better believe that some ationg the mountains, though her extraordinary
of the varmints wont live to see the sun rise to- beauty had often excited my admiration. She
morrow mornin'.                             had domicilled with Mr. Gray, and had won the
'We will shoot them down like dogs !' I ex- esteem of every one by her sweetness of tem-
claimed, ' if they make such an attempt.' per, and many acts of kindness. But she al-
'We'll do our best, and nobody can do bet- ways seemed to me to be laboring under a set-
ter nor his best.                          tled sadness, which nothing could dissipate for
' If these helpless ones were not with us,' I any great length of time. She always passed
replied, turning, and looking upon the emigrant among us by the name of Alice. Between her
families, 'I. should care little for yonder red and Flora a very strong and sisterly affection
fiends.                                     subsisted, and the dangers they had recently
The emigrants-ten in all-were stationed experienced had strengthened it.
judiciously within the ramparts, and everything  Flora and Alice were standing. near me,
in the shape of fire-arms was made ready for ac- watching with painful interest the -fires dancing
tion. Some of the wives of the settlers took meteor-like upon the mountain range.
their places by the side of their husbands, with 'You had better retire within the fort,' I
the heroic determination to die with them, if all said, taking a hand of each.
our exertions should prove unavailing.     j 'Flora had better do so,' said Alice.
I observed one female in particular who cx-  'I prefer to stay here,' replied:Flora.  ' The
hibited great courage and spirit.  The history of feeblest band can be useful where there is a
this female was somewhat singular, and she well will. I have foresight enough to perceive that
deserves a passing notice.  She was about twen-( those burning brands will be hurled among us ;
ty five years of age.  She had formerly been in and I can extinguish one of them  as quickly
captivity among the Crows, having been taken as the strongest among you.'
by them near the Wind.River Chain of the Rocky  ' Very true ;but the thought that you are e
Mountains, while on her way to the great Salt posed to danger, will be sufficient to make me
Jsake, with a large party of emigrants.  She re- miserable.'
mained among this wandering, marauding peo-    Well, let us go in,' said Flora, and she and
ple for the space of two years, when she es- Alice left me to ay unspeakable relief.
aped from them during one of their long ex-  Before two o'clock, the fires of our enemies
oursions near Laramie Plains.               were approaching on every side. It was a strange
Having some idea of the locality of Fort Lira- and startling sight ! Soon from the base of the
mie, she endeavored to reach it; but unfortunate- mountains half way up their sides, the lurid
ly lost her way, and fellin with the Arapah9es. glare of the  flaming torches, fell upon grin and
She passed some maths with that tribe of In- painted visages moving steadily towards us.
dians, but finally escaped from them also, with  ' That's the work of Osborne,' 'said 'Gilmore.
the intention of finding her way to Bent's Fort. ' Curses upon his renegade hear!1'Tha's what
Again her evil genius prevailed.            they've been so busy about all day.
Possessing little practical knowledge of that  'There are hundreds of them,' I remarked.
portion of the country, she failed to accomplish  ' Yes, boy ; it'll soon be all over with us.'
her object ; but after many days of suffering.  'And lora?'
reached the settlement on the Red Fork of the  ''Will be spared,' added Gilmore  ared
Arkansas River.                             by Osborne and for himn.'
When I joined the settlers, she had been    At that nioment the object of my soi~.

I  :  '


A
i
I
,'
;
c
R,
. r        '
A
i-
v
;'
-         _,
,.                 ,
,  ,
,
f

BLACK RALPH
approached and laid her little hand upon my   On came the burning brands, swung aloft in
arm.                                        savage hands, forming a circle of flame around
'Edward, I have a request to make,' she us.- More fiercely arose the battleshout.  Our
said, in a low earnest voice.               hearts seemed to stand Mill with expectation.
'Speak on my own girl,' I answered, pres-   The circle of fire narrowed, and the wall of
sing the fair hand to my lips.              flame grew momentarily more dense.
It is that I may not be taken prisoner.'   The enemy were within gun shot, burt Gilmore
'Not while I live, Flora.'               stayed his hand, and Two Shooter lay quietly
'That is not what I mean.     When you across the breastwork. How deep and death-
see that all is lost, be more merciful than our like was the hush that had fallen upon our little
enemies-put an end to my existence with your garrison.
own hand.'                                    The trapper stood immoveable as a man of
'Impossible !  How could Edward Seward iron.
lift his hand against one dearer to hint than his More dense and narrower still grew the flain-
own life ?'                                 ing circle.  We could see the red hands that
'Edward, I entreat of you, by the love of held the burning wood, and the bedevilled
merciful heaven, to listen to my request.'  faces that they lighted toward us.
'Promise,' said Gilmore, in a hoarse voice,  There was a moment of breathless, fearful sus-
while tears -flowed down his weather-beaten pense. The eyes of the enemy were visible. Two
cheeks.  Think of Osborne-save the dear gal Shooter leaped to Gilmore's shoulder, and fire
from dishonor.'                             streamed from the muzzle. A light went down,
'I solemnly romisc !' I exclhimed-with a and the han that held it, never held it agtin.
choked and faltering voice.                 Instantly we poured in a deadly fire.  Many
For a single moment I held her to my heart, burning brands fell to the earth.
and kissed her cheeks, her brow, her lips, as I  The Utahs wavered, and I heard a voice well
believed, for the last time on earth.       known cheer them on.
'My blessin's on you, gal,' said Gilmore, in    Oh for a shot at Osborne !' exclaimed the
a broken voice. ' I'll do the deed with my own trapper.
hand afore you shall be taken.'               With a fiendish yell they rushed upon us.
Flora gently disengaged herself from my arms As they reached the rampart, wc, ve, them a
and disappeared within the fort.            second volley ; but it checked them only for a
'They come,' added the trapper, ' and their moment.
torches blaze finely. It will take every woman  'Now it is hand to hand, and man to man !'
and child in the encampment to put them out, cried the trapper. 'Give 'em death! hurl their
when they begin to fall among us.  Hush!'  brands into their faces! fight like devils, all!'
The stillness that had reigned hitherto, was  While Gihuore was speaking, a shower of
now broken by an universal shout.           burning torches fell around us, and upon the
'It's a war-song,' said Gilmore.  And higher fort. I saw the females rush from within and
and louder swelled the shout, and Ihe chorus commence throwing them over the rampart with
of savage voices. It rang out among the gorges a heroism unequalled ; and Flora was of the
with terrible distinctness, calling up innumera- number.
ble discordant echoes.                        ' They are scaling the breast-work !  Beat
'    iBe all ready, men!' cried Gilmoro.  'Don't them back, men!' I shouted, and leaping for-
fire, a man of you, 'till you hear TPwo Shooter ward, beat back three with as many blows. Des~-
apeak, then fight 'till you drop down dead.' perately raged the battle for a few moments-.
So let it be,' answered Gray. ' There's not Our men seemed to be everywhere at the samte
a man here that fears to die in defence of lis ~time, fighting with the strength of lions.
own.'Though we fought with superhuman courage,

I

THE FOREST FIEND.                 95

it was not possible in the nature of things that
we could hold out long against such overwhelm-
ing numbers. Some of the enemy had already
scaled our breast-work, which was blazing in
several places, despite all our exertions ; the
fort was also on fire ; one of the settlers was
killed, and several of them desperately wound.
ed.; The smoke blinded us, and the burning'
sparks and splinters were continually falling
upon us.

would have been the 'visage of the arch fiend
himself.
As he thundered down among us, he dealt
fatal blows with a weapon which he wielded with
his right band.
The Utah's gave back, and he rode them down
in spite of smoke and flame. Suddenly his eye
fell upon Osborne. With a shout of exultation
he spurred his gigantic steed, which, with a tre-
mendous bound and snort, cleared the space be-

'Kill those within the breast-work !' shouted tween them  and his victim. The instant the
the trapper, and every one did his utmost to hoofs of the animal struck deep in the soft and
obey.                                    ' bloody soil, the tall form of Osborne sank down
The flames were now spreading in every di- to rise no more.
rection, and some portions of the breast-work  Alice was still in danger-for an athletic sav-
were defended better by the fiery element, than age was in the act of striking his knife to her
we could have defended it with our.bodies; but heart. The eagle glance of the strange rider
the enemy were pouring in, and the fight now I was upon him-the steed dashed forward, and
went on within the ramparts.               ere the fatal weapon had tasted the blood of Al-
I looked about for Flora. She. stood near ice, the Utah's brains were dashed against the
me. Her eyes met mi'e, and she said, in that crackling timbers of the fort.
dreadful moment of carnage and horror-      But the fearless hand that dealt the blow
'Remember your promise !'     .          seemed suddenly paralyzed ; the unknown threw
The words nerved me on to deeds of desperate himself from  his horse, and with a cry of joy
daring,                                    clasped Alice to his bosom.
'All is lost !' said Flora, as I ceased for an  As he did so, a deafening yell of ' Black
instant from the work of slaughter.   -  . Ralph,' and 'Machinito,' Machinito !' rent the
At that instant a white man leaped over.the air, and the Utah's fled in every direction.
rampart, followed by a dozen savages. He     '' Go it, Two Forty ! Carry double' said a
sprang towards Flora, and threw his left arm voice, and Buston cleared the rampart with a
around her, fighting with his right.       flying leap, and a female clinging to his back.
' We're lost !' shouted Gilmore. ' Remem- With his clubbed rifle he struck down one of
her your promise! Good bye, boy ! God bless the retreating enemy.
you, and give you an easy death.'            'Go it, Cattridge-Box ! the day is ours!' ad-
I heard no more, nor heeded the words of the ded the hunter, as he dashed after the fPing foe
trapper. I saw Alice struggling with a savage, at a mad rate, with his fair companion stillniouht-
and the ruffian arm of Osborne around the waist ed behind him.
of Flora.  I fought my way towards her, bear-  In two minutes from that time there was not
ing down all before inc.                   an enemy in sight.
The flames roared and leaped up from the   ' Thank God !' said Gilmore, fervently.
breast-work, and from the fort, and hope aban-  I held the fainting forul of Flora in .my arms,
doned every heart ; but I still fought my way while our strange delivererwausing all the mneape
towards Flora.                             in his power to recover Alice, who had relapse4
All at once, over the flaming ramparts leaped into a deep and death-like swoon.
a mighty steed and a mighty rider. As his face 'This is the 'Runnin' Ivy said Buston, as
was seen in the red glare of the burning tim- he returned;  and a sprightly looking girl jumped
hers, it was grim and terrible to our enemies as lightly from the back of Two Forty.

Ii


96                 4 BLACK RALPH

'If you could only find that dog with three cause. They would raise hhn, up.  A small
names, you'd be a made man,' retorted Gilmore, wound would be found in the region of the
with a smile.                               heart, bearing every appearance of having been
'She didn't ran away on purpose, Brass-Eyes, inflicted by a rifle ball. But no sound had
by no means. My old rival took her away by been heard--no iharksman bad been seen !--.
violence; bat she escaped, and has lived among Whence, then, came the messenger of death!
various tribes since. Tonight I had the good Who among them   could answer ! Not one.
luck to find her ; but I had a hard chase to over- They said that some evil demon infested their
take her, as she didn't know who I was.  So, woods and wilds, and their hearts were filled
when she found out, she jumped up behind, and with awe. They knew, and could conceive of
left the Utah's with right good will.'      no explosive, that could send a leaden ball to a
Our unknown deliverer now appeared,.lead- human heart in silence ; that was a secret known
lg AAlice by the hand.                      only to myself.  Concealed from view by roek
It's Black Ralph !' whispered Gilmore, but 'and tree, and hill, I sped the. unheard ressen-
the words 'reached the stranger's ears.    ger, and then swept away like the wind. Ma-
Forrester !' I exclaimed, involuntarily.  ny have felt my vengeance. But now shall the
'You are both right,' he replied.  '1I have red man rest in peace.  I will pursue them no
been Black Ralph and the Forest Fiend. You more with my hatred, (dlliow them o more with
will know me no more as Black Ralph. The unrelenting fury. The work of vengeance has
reign of the Forest Fiend is ended. Many' been more than fulfilled ; and the wrongs of
years ago I loved this maiden.  $he was my Alice avenged. Henceforth, blessed with the
affianced bride.  We journeyed towards the love of her beside me, shall my days flow on
Great Salt Lake with a large party of emigrants. like the current of a peaceful river. The past
We were attacked by the savages. Most of the let us all strive to forget, while we crown. the
emigrants were slain, and I was left upon the present with good actions. All the acts of my
field for dead.                            life while I have figured in the character of
When I recovered my consciousness, I sate Black Ralph, I do not attempt to justify, but
,ny the stiffening bodies of many of my late many of them bring with their remembrance no
empanions. Survived that terrible encounter, pulses of remorse, for I often laid aside my as-
but the fate of Alice I never knew. I swore sumed character,, and as a simple trapper or hun-
vengeance against the red men, and you all ter joined parties of white trappers, discovered
know how well I have kept my 'word. By their scouts, punished the guilty and protected
means of a kind of explosive which makes no.' the weak and helpless.. I have often been near
report, I have been able to do my work of death you, Edward Seward, since you left Westport,
in sileGee. Often have I hovered about the and you have, let me hope, been benefitted by
white trappers and traders, to protect them with my proximity.  An Indian fell dead on the
the terror of my name. I have always punished quiet bank ofthe Red' Fork of Arkansas River.
treachery, and befriended the innocent.'    Prairie Wolf gave up his breath on the sloping
Mounted upon a steed of great power, I came hill-side. A savage ceased to live, of a sudden,
and went unseen,. and unfeared ; for I took the on the banks of the Rio Colorado. All of thewi
precaution to wrap my horse's feet with buffsdo were mortal foes to you; hence they died.--
skin when I approached my victims ; and some- Had I not have been near you, you would have
times I suffered them to see me a few hours be- fallen long 'ere this by the band of Osborne,.
fore I wrought my work of death. It is through  But why have I been thus interested in you,
that my name became a word of terror among you will probably ask ? Listen ! I will reveal
the red men ! One of their numbers would a secret.
drop down dead of a sudden without visible I am y6our father's br-other ! My name is

THE FOREST FIEND.                                   9'
truly Forrester. I loved my brother, wild and was united to Flora-Dale; Forrester to Alice ;
erring though he was ; is it strange, then, that Arthur to Gilmore's daughter; and the heart of
I have felt an interest in his child--a child in- the old trapper was glad.
heriting all the fiery impulses of his nature, and  Buston and the Running Ivy participated glo-
all his generous qualities of heart.       riously in the festivities of the occasion, and the
'Why was- you Osborne's second when I former cracked his jokes liberally at the expense
fought him?'                              of his friend 'Brass-Eyes.'
'In order to favor you. Had I loaded his    Two Forty is still living, and ' Oncommon
gun as he was in the habit of charging it, noth- Florry' still has the privilege of riding him.
ing could have saved you; for he was a dead shot.  *    *    *     *    *     *
' And the warning I think I can now under-  Hark.! I hear the voice, of Gilmore; and
stand.'                                    there is joy in its tone. I see the face of For-
' Many of my movements have been mysteri- rester, and it is radiant with hope.
ous; but not one without an adequate cause.   Black Ralph is no more ; but his name will
1 might have slain Osborne many times, but that long be remembered with awe by the red dwell-
I had no right to do, as he had never injured ers amid the western wilds. And here comes
ice. The most I could do was to be ever Arthur with his bride upon his arm. There is
near you, when I discovered that you were my a ringing, mirthful sound in my ear ; it is the
brother's child, to warn and save you in the voice of Buston.
hour of peCril.'                             Gentle reader, ad'eu, and iny blessing, and
'How did you discover that such a relation- that of Flora go with you through the devious
ship existed between us?'                  windings of life.
'By means of certain papers which you lost                rH   END.
mysteriously; also by a ring which you wear;
upon the middle finger of the left hand. Now
all is briefly explained, and you can answer the
question,of-
'Who is Black Ralph?'
S'But when I wash this dark paint from my
face, you will know him no more. My Alice
recovered, my hostility towards the red many
dies.'
Reader, I have little more to relate. My
story is well nigh told. I have only to add that
Arthur, his father, and the settlers who accom-
panied him, returned to us in safety on the fol
lowing day.
But how Arthur found a white captive among
the Jndians~ and made his escape with her, and
by her assistance, and how she proved to be Gil-
more s long lost daughter, and how she Oeame
his bride, I cannot stop to explain. The indul-
gent reader will be kind enough to picture it all
out in his own mind, and try to imagine the
happiness which these pleasing events produced.
We all journeyed to the Great Salt Lake in4
safety,'where a triple wedding took place. if


  
             
         
       
   
