
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). Marion's Brigade, or, The Light Dragoons .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7615
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Marion's Brigade, or, The light dragoons 
            
               r {

-'-o,--
BY DR. J. H. ROBINSON.
goob 0",

2

BOSTON:
F.   GLEASON'S         PU'1BLISIIJNG      HALL
CORNER OF BROMFIELD AND TREMONT STREETS.
1852.
n4ered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by P. GuAsoN, in the OCrk'Se O
of the District (.brt of Massachusettg.

1

FAT +     "nt  i
, Y    r

w

,. ..
,,
.t


K

r 4/~" ~c9 t.
I                           'e
I                              ~ ~
I' t
V..-

PunusaI   s NOTRE.-The following Novellette was originally' published in Tin  FLAG oP OUR *suorN
and is but one among the many deeply interesting productions -emanating from that source. The:FLAG
has attained to a circulation unrivalled in newspaper literature ; its contributors form a corps of the finest
talent in the land, and its romances, tales, and poetical gems are of a high order, and such as enrich the
columns of no other publication.
The following .is the Prospectus of the FLAG:
THE FAG FOUR UNION,
AN ELGANT, MORAL AND            REFINED
hISGELLANEOIUS FAMILY JOURNAL,
Devoted to polite literature, wit and humor, prose and poetic gems, and original prize tales, written
expressly for this paper, and at a very great cost. Published every SATURDAY, by.
F. G LEASON, corner of Bromfield and Tremont Streets, Boston,
S. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spruce Street, New .York,
A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
BURGESS, TAYLOR &amp; CO., 111 Baltimore Street, Baltimore,
A. C. BAGLEY, 10 West 3d Street, Cincinnati,
E. K. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Street, St. Louis.
C. P. KIMBALL, Long Wharf, San Francisco, California.
It is generally acknowledged that the FLAG is now the leading weekly paper in the United States, and its
literary contents are allowed, by the best judges, to be unsurpassed. In politics and all sectarian questions,
it is strictly neutral. Nothing of an immoral nature will ever be admitted into its columns ; therefore
making it emphatically,.."
A PAPER FOR THE MILLION,
AND A WEL OME VISITER TO THE HOME CIRCLE.
Itcontains the foreign and domestic news of the day, so condensed as to enable us to give the greatest
possible amount of intelligence. No advertisements are admitted to the paper, thus offering the entire
W   sheet, which is of
THE MAMMOTH SIZE,
for the instruction and amusement of the general reader.  An unrivalled corps of contributors are
regularly engaged,end every department is under the most finished and perfect- system that experience can
suggest, or money produce. Lacking neither the means nor the will, we can lay before our hundreds'of
thousands of readers an
the present eireulation of which far exceeds that of any, other weekly paper in the Union.
TERNS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
I subscriber, one year,                                                        $ .  .   .  .  .  .  $2 00
3 subscribes, . "               -      -     -      - ,        .       .      - 500
8    "        "      -      -     -    -   -                .     .      .    2- 6 0 00
16   _     u                                                               20
7' One copy 'of the FLAG oP OUR Uxtox, and one copy o( the PICTORIAL nDRAWrNG-O
ComPAnION, one year, for  .      .     .      . ,   ,en,               . .
Doy    zooeyer or9 Invariably in advance.
No father reduction made from the above terms.
-Subscribers or postmasters are requested to act as agents, ,and form clubs, on the above terms.
* sn A   sheldbe addresed, POST PAID, to the PUBLISHER  o  Tae FLAG Of OUR UNION.
0D   The F L A G can be obtaind atny of the newspaper dam, in the United ,States, and of newpape r
,  carriers at POUR CENTSper eS.

.

Arp

C     HARLESTON    had fallen, and English
partisan officers were devastating South.
Carolina with fire and sword. It was a season
when might seemed to have achieved: a final
victory over right. The most hopeful of the
patriots began to despond, and to feel that their
cause was lost forever in thatportion of the'
country. Toryism prevailed unchecked. Peace-
able citizens were slain without mErcy; their
wives and daughters were insulted, and their
"substance wasted. South -Carolina 'was liter-
ally trodden under foot by a remorseless foe ;
and the in arose daily upon burning homes
and houseless fugitives. Despair was written
upon the weaker hearts, and defiance upon the
stronger. Many accepted royal protection, and
as many rejected it with ineffable scorn..
Though dark and discouraging the period,
opposition- had not yet ceased ; a few , daring
souls still contended for liberty and justice.
At Williamsburg a small party of horsemen were

collected. No two were dressed alike, if we
except tl e covering for the head, there being a
degree of uniformity in that particular-each
wearing a round leathern cap, more substantial
than ornamental. If there was but little sim-
ilarity observable in the article of dress, there
was still less to be discovered in regard to arms
and equipments. A few had rifles; some had
fowling-pieces, others had rude but heavy sabres
fashioned by the 'skill of the neighboring black-
smith; Aand there were'others who were armed
with swords of the ordinary kind.
[sEE ENGRAVING.]
However shabby their apparel, and however
indifferently they were armed, it was very cer-
tain that they were without exception well
mounted, and -men of high and stern determii}
tion, whom wrong and opptession had driven   v w
arms as a last resort. This little band of horse-
men was commanded by-Francis Mario
whose military- career proved sueessf  .
,-;"

CHAPTER I.
THE  BRIGADE.

,


MARION'S BRIGADE.

brilliant, and whose well-earned laurels will re-
main green through the mutations of coming
centuries.
The party fell into line. A man of command-
ing figure now rode forward, and addressed the
men. It was Colonel Horry, the friend and
able supporter of General Marion. -
a "Friends, neighbors, and fellow-soldiers,"
said the colonel, " I have a proposition to make ;
and it is this-that you hereafter be distinguish-
ed as a body of men, Ity the name of MARION's
i      BRIADE. As many.as are in favo   this pro;
position, will ride three paces to the front."
Without hesitation every horseman moved to
the front, sand the line remained unbroken.
Six hearty cheers were immediately given for
General Marion and his " brigade."
"Here comes the general," said Ben Rowan,
a man famous for his personal strength and
daring.
"He's rather small in stature," remarked a
recruit who had joined the brigade that morning.
"He is quite large enough to unite in his
own person great generalship, undaunted cour-
age, and indomitable perseverance," replied a
young man whose name was Forstall, and who
will frequently be mentioned in the following
pages.
"He's all of that," added Rowan, approv-
ngly ; "and he rides one of the best horses in
the- State. It's my opinion that Tarleton's
cavalry can't keepin sight of him."
" So far as I am able to judge in the premises,
we are all pretty wil' mounted," -said Forstall,
glancing at his companions with evident pride.
".So we are,'" rejoined Ben Rowan; "and-
so we. ought to be, for the brunt of the battle
is coming upon us. We are almost alone in
the field."
"Verily, I line not thesound of the trumpet,
and,the liftingupof the spear !" exclaimed Job
Da son, -an athletic Quaker, on the right of
s "Then what, are yEon here for ?" asked the
latter, quickly, and somewhat contemptuously.
IF,% one, Itoame. hee, to fight, and I'll follow
talioa-hearted litkp maa (pointing to Madon)

as long as .I can set on a horse, and wield any
kind of a weapon."
"I came hither, friend Rowan," replied
Dawson, quietly, "to prevent wanton cruelty
and the shedding of blood.  Verily, my soul
hateth the neighing of steeds, and the prepara-
tions of war."
" You'd better go home then," answered
Rowan, gruffly.
"Hush ! the general is going to address us,"
said Iorstall.  Francis Marion, mounted upon
his renowned horse, rode leisurely to the front of
the brigade, and every eye was fixed .earnestly
upon him.
" Men and soldiers, I have been sent by
General Gates to be your leader. - I shall en-
deavor to discharge my duty ; if I fail, it will
be because I lack ability and address, and not
because I do not love my country as dearly as
any other man. I have heard that you are all
tried men and true, and I rejoice that it is so;
for it has been and shall be my highest ambition
to lead such against our haughty enemies. I
have adopted for my motto, ,'Liberty or Death,'
and I solemnly assure you that I mean to abide
by it. I ask no man to follow me who has not
trained all his energies to this high determina-
tion. It is my. firm and unalterable purpose
never to abandon the field, so long as there is
one true soldier in South Carolina to go with
me to battle. Our numbers are increasing hour-
ly, and if you are brave, resolute, and prudent,
the whole 'country shall hear of your achieve-
ments.   Your sweethearts shall blush with
pleasure when they hear your names spoken;
your wives will weep pearly tears of joy and
gratitude ; and your children in after years will
strive to emulate your noble deeds. I feel
within me an assurance that this brigade will
yet become the terror of British hirelings, and a
word. to make the tory tremble even while the
bayonets of Cornwallis gleam over .his dastard-
ly head.  We will surprise our foes by sudden
sallies; we will awe them  with the exploits of
men resolved to conquer or die ; we will appear
to them in unexpected places; we will cut off
communication with their different military posts;

we will, in short, harass them at all times, until
they can feel no sense of security on the soil of
South Carolina. You are now poorly armed,
but I will soon lead you to victory, when all
your Wants in this respect will be supplied; and
you shall have the pleasure of fighting them
with their own weapons."
The general ceased, and the brigade cheered
him to the echo.
"That's what I call the right;kind of talk !"
exclaimed Ben, enthusiastically.
"It may suit thee, friend Benjamin," re-
torted Job Dawson, calmly.
Rowan looked disdainfully at the Quaker, but
did not deign to reply. '
"The general wishes to see you," said Col-
onel Horry, in a low voice to Dawson. "Fol-
low me."
Job Dawson obeyed the summons, and in a
few minutes his gigantic figure was see tower-
ing up beside the smaller person of the brigadier,
at a short distance from the encampment.
"I have been informed by one of my mnen,"
said Marion, " that you can tell me something
about the movements of Major Gainey, the tory
leader, who has done so much mischief of late?
Now what have you'to communicate on the sub-
ject?"-
"1As thou seest, friend Francis, I belong to
that peculiar sect called Quakers ; a people who
love peace, and abhor contention. Verily, I
cannot fight with carnal weapons ; neither will
I encourage war and cruelties ; but this much
.I will say ; that man of Belial, whom they call
Gainey, and who leadeth the disaffected of our
countrymen to battle, and -vexeth this unhappy
land not a little, is now resting from the work
of slaughter on the banks of the Pedee, at a
place called ' Britton's Neck.' "     ..
Dawson paused an instant, as if to give his
words time to have their proper effect, and then
added in the same mild and quiet way:
"Hence, friend Francis, I would advise thee
to keep out of the way of that man of blood,
. lest he should fall upon thee and smite thee
with the edge of the sword."

"   thank you," said the general, with a
smile.
."It was my duty to tell thee this, to prevent
the effusion of blood," resumed Dawson.
Marion did not reply immediately, but fixed
his penetrating eyes searchingly upon the singa-
lar personage before him.
"There are men, friend Francis," continued
Dawson, "bad enough to fall upon this Major
Gainey in the night time, and slay him, and
those that- are with him,:without mercy ; but I
hope that thou art a man of peace."
" I eight to procure peace, fried Dawson,"
returned the general; "and I shall certainly
surprise Major Gain'ey to-night, if it be in my
power to do so. His enormities are but too
well known to me ; he has filled to the brimrthe
measure of his sins, and I will punish him if
heaven will kindly endow my arm with accus-
tomed strength for a few hours longer. I have
earnestly desired an opportunity to meet that
tory leader, and I trust my prayer is now grant-
ed. As you appear to be well acquainted with
the localities referred to, you must be my guide
to the spot."
"You forget, friend Francis, that my con-
science protests against such proceedings," re-
plied Dawson.
" Your conscience is wrongly educated," an-
swered the general.
"I cannot comply with thy demand," said
the Quaker.
" Then I must use my authority," returned
Marion, decidedly.
" Verily, thou hast the power, and I cannot
resist thee," rejoined Job.- " But if I go up
with thee to battle, I can only look and see the
slaughter go on. As I have sagd, I cannot
fight."
" Do as you please about fighting ; all I re-
quire is that you will conduct me to the camp of
Major Gainey by the shortest route. When
there, you shall be at liberty to fight, or run
away, just which your conscience may incline to
dictate.",;

8

9

MARION'S BRIGADE.


-'-
I,

1
Rii

10                              M        'S BRIGADE.
1 " Beit so; I have no power to ga  be' me to wear a
returned Dawson, meekly.                    caused"
I observe that you are not armed, Mr.      "But you
Dawson. I advise you to wear some kind of a Ben,.glad of
weapon to secure your own personal safety, as Dawson's feel
one is liable to meet an enemy when least you must com
expected," added the general.               ing back.  Y
"If it is thy command, I must even obey," take.  So tur
returned Job.me.
"I have no more to say at present; let us  "I cannot
return to the camp."                        but I have no
The general and Job Dawson rode slowly seemeth good
back towards the encampment.       Suddenly    Full of the
Marion drew up his horse and asked, abruptly: sport at the ea
s there a woman in this case, Mr. Daw- honest Job Dai
,on ,"                                    to a shop notf
The young Quaker's calm and handsome face three stout n
was instantly suffused with a deeper red.   sabres to be ui
"There is a certain damsel," he answered, " You can
recovering partially from his embarrassment; an, pointing t
-" who is indeed somewhat interested in these
matters."                                   the same time
a significant gl
" And you are doubtless, judging by your    i If I must
confusion, interested in the ' damsel I'"    -11 .havsu
"Ilike not thy trade," said Dawson, eva- shall best suit
" Well, wha
General Marion motioned to 1lowan, and      "They are
he approached.                                ." he one
fain have one
"I do not wish Mr. Dawson to leave the pounds heavier
camp," he said.  "I confide him to your care  . That's
until night.  See that he has good treatment,  a suppose a
and a weapon, if he desires one."           jus as suppos fo
"You don't strike me as being just the right usI dare say
kind of a chap for these parts,"  remarked   lease all arti
Ben, as soon as the general had left them..  please    are
" Why not, friend Benjamin ?" asked Job, "Shall e a
in those peculiarly gentle tones which were it Shalle o
. .it the whole le
such strange contrast with the excited voices men, with a s
which arose on every side.                 "meniy afrm
"Because there's nofight in you !" retorted anyisorter
Rowan, energetically.                       any shorter.
"All men are not alike," was the patient skill, and I wal
reply.                                        * Swords wer
" And it's a good thing for the country that all the saw-mills
they aint. Who would defend the women and themen;w ad
children, if there was nobody that would fight  P' their rude sword
" Frid B                      -er never failed to
"rend Benjamin, your leader commanded blow.--Washingt

weapon, but I would fain be ex-
can't be excused !" exclaimed
this opportunity to do violence to
ngs. "If the general has said so,
e to it, and there's no use in hang-
ou must wear a sword,-and no mis-
-n out your horse, and come with
use a sword, friend Benjamin;
power to resist. Do with me as
unto thee."
idea of having a little innocent
:pense of the unostentatious and
%wson, Ben Rowan conducted him
faifrom the camp, where two or
nen were engaged in fashioning
sed by the brigade.*
now select a weapon," said Row-
o several rudely made sabres, at
favoring the sooty workmen with
lance.
indeed be armed, good Benjamin,
ch an implement of warfare as
my fancy."
at fault do you find with these'?"
not heavy,ough.      I 'would
six inches longer, and several
r.'.
there rich !" exclaimed Rowan.
common broomstick would answer
r all practical purposes'?"
thou art right, but I will, if it
es, have the weapon that those
now smiting upon the anvil."
ut off the end, or will you have
length ?" asked one of the work-
iile.
end Vulcan, I will not have it
Fashion it according to thy best
1 wear it in obedience to the com-
e at first- wanting, but they stripped
of the neighborhood,. and the saws
by rude -blacksmiths into sabres for
e are informed by a cotenporary that
s were so efficient that a strong troop-
cut down an adversary at a single
on and his Generals.

,I'

} MARION'S
mands of, Francis, the leader of this warlike
people."
The sabre was made according to the instruc-
tions of Dawson, and occasioned no little mer-
riment; for it was of such weight and length,
that it seemed to rival the famous weapon used
by Wallace himself, when he led the plaided
warriors to battle.  We will not attempt to
enumerate the number of gibes and jests of
whicir the quiet Quaker was the subject during
the day. Wherever he appeared' with the pon-
derous "utensil of war," as he quaintly styled
it, there was sure to be an outburst -of mirth,
and a shower of ridiculous remarks ; for Ben
Rowan did not fail to call attention to his pa-
tient and uncomplaining friend.
But one thing could not be overlooked or
denied by the most facetious and fun-loving
among the dragoons; and that was, that the

BRIGADE.           '                   11
figure of Job Dawson was a fine model of manly
beauty and strength.' Larger than any man in
the brigade, of a pleasing countenance, and still
young (for he was on the sunny side of thirty),
despite all the disadvantages under which he
labored in, other respects, his personal appear-
ance excited admiration and some envy. All
agreed that " it was a pity such a noble-looking
fellow could not fight." He moved about among
the men, apparently unconscious that he was a
subject of ridicule. When addressed, his an-
swers were mild, and yet characterized by quiet
dignity ; and his calm voice never for a moment
lost its tones-of strange gentleness. Although
the monstrous weapon hung at his side, no war-
like fires gleamed from his eyes; they were soft
as a woman's in their expression,, and a wondrous
serenity seemed~writtga in the singular repose of
every feature.


4

CHAPTER II.
.    GAINEY AND -CUNNINGHAM.

HERE was one in Mario'n's brigade who
was deeply interested in the contem-
plated movement against Major Gainey.   The
individual referred to was Frank Forstall, a
young than whose name has been casually men-
tioned.  His home was on the Pedee River, not
far from Britton's Neck ; consequently hisnear-
est and dearest friends were there-his parents
and his fair and gentle sister Rose.  Nor was
this all; Ruth Strickland, a young and inter-
esting maiden, who had awakened in his bosom
the tenderest sentiments of friendship, resided
in that vicinity, giving it, by her presence, an
additional charm.
Mr. Strickland, Ruth's father, ws at that
time in the army of General Gates, marching
towards Camden. Major Gainey, the notorious
tory leader, had heard of the rare beauty and
accomplishments of Ruth, and naturally felt a
desire to see her; but the admiration was all
on his side ; for she had no sympathy with his
cause, and shrunk with horror from the rehear-
sal of his deeds.  She knew that he was not the
friend of liberty; that his hands were stained
with the blood of true patriots, and she felt to-

wards him all that repugnance which the virtu-
ous instinctively feel for the vicious and un-
principled.
Although they had met only by accident,
the, major had been very free in the expression
of his admiration, and evidently desired to cul-
tivate her acquaintance ; but Ruth treated him
with such coldness, that he quickly perceived he
had little or nothing to hope in that direction.
He embraced various opportunities that chance
threw in his way, to endeavor to convince her
of the justness of his cause; also to excite her
fears, and ,awe her into something like a rever-
ence for himself and his authority.
He succeeded in exciting her fears and in-
creasing her aversion, but in no other respect.
The meetings referred to, had taken place near
Camden, while Ruth was there visiting a rela-
tive who was only but too partial to the tory
interest.
This state of things was not unknown to
Frank Forstall, and he had hoped, with Ruth,
that her persecutions would cease after her re-
turn home. His anxiety may in some measure
be imagined when he heard that Gainey and his

A DETACHMENT OF MARION'S BRIGADE.-See Chapter I.

;' , '
r
,, ,., k
_ f
.
,1.  ; F;
'   r


MARION'S BRIGADE.                15

ruffianly followers were encamped at Britton's
Neck. Who would protect Ruth Strickland
from insult ; and who would punish the offender
as he deserved ?
As young Forstall reflected upon this subject,
his fears increased, and he waited with obvious
impatience for the time to come when the brigade
should be put in motion. It is not necessary
that we should give a long description of Frank
Forstall. He was twenty years of age, bold,
active, an1 good-looking. He had been com-
pelled to the field by the stern necessity of the
times..: His innate love of truth and justice had
induced him to side with the patriots, and he
had joined Marion's Brigade only the day be-
fore. The reader will recognize in Forstall, a
young man actuated by the nobl(Mmotives, im-
patient to distinguish himself by brave and nota-
ble deeds.
'While the dragoons under Marion were waiting
so anxiously for the ap reach of night, Major
Gainey and his men w re making themselves
quite at hoe at Britton's Neck. They were
slaughtering the choicest b eves that they could
find, without taking the trouble to consult own-
ers; they plundered granaries, they entered
peaceful dwellings, the only inmates of which
were helpless women, and robbed them pf their
plate, money, and watches; and when these
were not to be obtained, contented themselves
by depriving them of their personal ornaments,
such as rings, chains, bracelets, etc.
Transactions of this kind were not limited,
however, to that particular locality; they were
of common occurrence all over the country, and
excited general indignation among 'the injured
inhabitants.
Of all the enemies, with whom the patriots
had to contend, none were so eminently distin-
guished for cruelty and meanness, as the tories."
there were no atrocities of which they were no
guilty. To despoil and slay their whig neigh-
bors, it would seem, appeared to them a most
agreeable employment ; consequently there ex-
isted between the two parties feelings of ani-.
mosity the most implacable. The royal cause
being now in the ascendant in South Carolina,

the numerous tory bands that were sweeping
hrough the country, loved, when occasion offer-
ed, to show their power in acts of which no hon-
orable foe would have been guilty. Major
Gainey revelled in plenty at Britton's Neck, at
the expense of the inhabitants. He triumphed
over old men and defenceless women and chil-
dren, and he meant that they should feel that
he could have everything as he wished.
Perhaps we cannot show to better advantage
the particular position of affairs at the tory
camp, than by giving the substance of a conver-
sation that transpired at that time between the
major and Colonel Cunningham, an officer who
afterwards commanded a body of tories distin-
guished by the not very pleasing name of the
"Bloody Scout,"* which title was be'stowed
upon them on account of their unparalleled bar-
barities, and of whom we shall have more to
say as we proceed.
"I have given orders not to have Strickland's
house plundered," said Gainey to Cunning-
ham.
"On account of the pretty Ruth, no doubt ?"
replied the latter.
" Of course. I have just been up there."
"What luck ?"
"None at all. The little beauty is proud as
a queen, and cold as an iceberg. She said if I
had come for the purpose of plunder, the sooner
I accomplished the business and left the prem-
ises, the more agreeable it would be to her and
the rest of the family. I told her I had come
to offer her my friendship and protection ; to
which she answered, that neither herself nor
friends desired the friendship of a man who had
committed so many enormities."
"You couldn't help understanding what she
meant, major," remarked Cunningham, with a
sinister smile.
"No ; there was nothing ambiguous in her
* It was about this time that the "Bloody Scout,"
under the notorious Colonel Cunningham, was com-
mitting unprecedented cruelties on the inhabitants of
Union and Spartanburg districts. This tory acted a
prominent part also in the partisan warfare of Laurens,
Newberry, and Edgefield districts. He was common-
ly called "Bloody Bill Cunningham." Plundering
and murder were his vocation, and his ruthless band
were the terror of the counti'y.-Avmerican Revolution.

0

11


-  MARION'S BRNGADE.

speech," returned Gainey.  "With some stern
ness I pointed towards our camp, arid beggedi
her to remember that a more humble demeanor
might be more compatible with her present sit
nation. Her mother now came to the rescue;
a very fine-looking, but a very impertinent
woman. She assured me that South Carolina
was not yet conquered, and though we might
triumph for a time, our overthrow ultimately
war  certain.  As for my 'protection,' she
eared nothing about it ; being willing to- suffer,
the same hardships that her neighbors did, for
the cause of liberty; I was provoked, but gov-
erned my temper as well as I could, resolving to
have a sweet revenge."
"There's a great deal of spirit in these whig
women," observed Cunningham.
They are worse than the men," retorted
Gainey, with an oath. "Although they do not
wield the sword with their own hands, they stim-
ltlate their lovers, husbandsand sons to greater
exertion, and thus keep the spirit of rebellion
alive throughout the country."
"No one has had a better opportunity than
myself of knowing that fact," answered Cun-
ningham. "I consider it about as lawful to
make- war upon them as upon their husbands,
sons and lovers. As a general thing, I am in-
clined to show them but little mercy ; for while
the whig women remain unsubdued, the coun-
try can never be wholly conquered. It is true
that we are masters now, but we are obliged to
ride rapidly from  place to place to fight those
whom we suppose already awed into submission.
As for myself, I am in favor of a warfare of
extermination. Let the sword, the halter, and
fire do their work without a too nice regard to
the particular circumstance of each individual
case. ° We have hitherto done the work but
imperfectly.  We must terrify by the prompt-
ness and severity of our punishments."
"I am entirely of your mode of thinking,"
said Gainey. " But to return to Ruth Strick-
land. I confess I admire the girl. I shall,
envy the man who is so fortunate as to win her
esteem."
" Your words remind me, major, of my own

- rustic beauty," replied the colonel.  "While I
I was out yesterday with -some of our fellows col-
lecting beeves, levying contributions on gra-
- naries, etc., I discovered a fine dwelling, roman-
tically situated on the banks of the river, about
two miles above here. I galloped up to the
house, followed by my merry men, and learned
by inquiry, that it was owned by a Mr. Adair,
a rank rebel. Wedismounted and as we enter-
ed the yard, a young man rushed out and made
a desperate attempt to escaped; but we succeed-
ed in securing him. He was just making pre-
parations to join the ragged fellows that (it
seems) are collecting somewhere near Lygeh's
Creek on the Santee. I ordered the men to
hang him up   the spot, when a girl of about
seventeen,  , ould judge, threw herself at my
feet and plead most eloquently that the order
might be revoked. . Her earnestness attracted
my attention,, and I perceived that she was en-
dowed by nature with a more than ordinaiy
share of beauty.  The soft, dark blue eyes, the'
rosy little mouth, the delicate lily of the cheeki,
and the charming symmetry of er whole per-
son, had more effect upon me than any sense of
pity or mercy which I might have !been'expeet-
ed to feel.
"After enjoying her distress a few moments,
I recalled my order, resolvingto spare the young
fellow, in hopes that he might be the means of
acquiring an influence over the fair sister.
While this scene was transpiring, some of the
men had entered the cellar, rather unceremoni-
ously, rolled out a barrel of currant wine and
were making themselves merry by generous
potations. I commanded them to desist, and
after complimenting Miss Adair upon her rare
beauty, rode off without carrying away a dol-
lar's worth of property. Young Adair is now a
prisoner, and I expect to purchase the friend-
ship of the party in whom I am interested, by
sparing his life."
"What if that should fail, colonel'?" asked
the major, with a smile,
" Then I will hang him !" exclaimed Cun-
ningham, with asavage oath.
"Youcertainly do not wish to be understood

that you feel any real affection for the girl?" little glory achieved in vanquishing him. For
continued Gainey.                          my part, I like an enemy who will fight some-
"I mean exactly that," replied Cunningham, what before he runs away."
decidedly.                                   "I think we had better go and hunt him up
"You'll propose marriage to her next, I dare to-morrow, and make an example of him ; after
say," said the major, with an ironical laugh. which we will turn our thoughts towards beatty
'I have made up my mind totake that step, and booty,"_replied the major.
and you cannot laugh me out of it. If she re-  Both of the tory leaders walked towards the
fuses, young Adair dies."                  encampment, conversing earnestly about Ruth
Some people would call that rather a strange Strickland, Mary Adair, and the rebels in gen-
way of wooing," remarked Gainey ; and then eral. Secure in their own supposed strength,
immediately added : " I hear that Marion has and deaf to the appeals of conscience, they took
collected a lot of 'scarecrows in leathern caps, no thought for the morrow, and neither knew nor
at-some place on the Santee. We must learn suspected what it might, bring forth. While
their precise whereabouts, and make a dash at devising plans for the injury and overthrow of
them soon. They are poorly armed, it is said, others, they remained unconscious that heaven
and it will require but little enterprise and cour- in its impartial dispensations of justice, was pre-
age to. surprise an cut them to pieces."   paring its vials of retribution to pour upon their
aI have also heard of the fellow you allude heads. When Major Gainey laid down in his
to. At the head of ahenful     o lude marquee that night and closed his eyes in sleep,
has been destroying boats on the Santee, by his dreams were not disturbed by a thought of
the order of General Gates. I fear he will prove danger.
but a contemptible foe', and there will be but

9 -

1

r,
t
t
t 4
a
e5.3

16

MARION'S BR-MA }E.
4

17


MARION'S BIGADFE.                  19.,

CHAPTER III.
THE NIGHT MARCH,. AND THE SURPRISE.
was night, and Marion's men were in the were able to fight; whether. they had courage
saddle. At the word '"forward," the brig- to do, as well as to threaten; whether they had
ade moved towards Britton's Neek at a rapid the address to make brilliant sallies, as well as
pace. All were anxious to meet the foe, and to plan them; whether they were really men of
to punish miscreants who had proved traitors to exalted qualities, or not.y
their brethren, and deaf .to the calls of common  As they swept onward, the moon and the fit-
humanity.  There was not one among the de- ful stars revealed stern faces, and hard hands
voted band who had not been a personal suffer- grasping strange implements of warfare. Youig
er, duringthe war, from the malice and cupidity Forstall rode beside Ben Rowan, and next to
of the tories. Each had lost some dear friend, the latter was visible the gigantic figure of Job
or been despoiled in property, or both. They Dawson.
were men of deep thought and tried energies.  "This looks like doing something," said Ben
They had not taken the field merely because to Forstall.
they had been    nged, and wished to make     "I believe that every one is satisfied with
reprisals ; but th y were influenced also by the, this movement," replied te latter.  "It is
purest and most exalted patriotism. In short, easy to perceive that all are impatient for the
they were men resolved upon liberty or death; onset. Those heavy sabres, though hammered
feeling that death would be far more glorious into shape by our own rough artizans, will soon,
than slavery.                               I imagine, be fleshed in the hearts of our re-
Marion's Brigade was not composed of ad- lentless foes."
venturers, hirelings and vagabonds, although ' "That's what I hope;" returned Rowan ;
they were ill clad and poorly armed, and their "and may the man who runs from the conflict,
enemies affected to regard them  with unmiti- perish in some miserable way, condemned by his.
gated contempt.                             own conscience, and by his fellow-men."
We shall see, as we proceed, whether they   "Thou       wrong, good Benjamin,; thou

should'st wish no evil to thy brethren," said
Dawson.
"Cowards are no brethren of mine," retort-
ed Rowan.
"All men are brethren, good Benjamin,".
said Dawson, mildly.
"Don't 'good Benjamin' me any more !"
cried Rowan, angrily.
"We are the children of one great lather,"
resumed Job.
"I don't care nothing about it," answered
Ben, sullenly.
"Mr. Dawson means -well, I believe," said
Forstall, soothingly ; for he perceived that
Rowan's temper was getting the better of his
judgment.
"He's a sneaking coward, and can't fight !"
exclaimed Rowan.
"Do you not see that he's well armed I" add-
ed Forstall, with a smile.
"He might as well carry a lady's penknife as
that tremendous thing," replied Ben, pointing
to;Daswon's weapon. " What in the name of
common sense can he do with it ! The fact is,
he can't do nothing with it, and don't intend to ;
that's the long and short of it."
"1Be calm, good Benjamin," said Dawson.
Rowan cast a fierce look at the Quaker, and
seemed at first inclined to strike him ; but some
thing about Job's placid countenance appeared
to prevent him; and he contented himself by
saying, in an ominous voice:     -
"I tell you not to 'good Benjamin' me any
more!"     --
"I love quietness and order," added Daw
son, unmoved- "strife and discord are repug
nant to my nature."
"Look here, my little giant," returned Ben
wrathfully. " The queer notion 'has entered
my head that you must fight, conscience or n
conscience. What say you to that,\ son of
Anak ?" .
"Verily, I have fallen into the hands of the
Philistines," said ,Dawson, without -the leas
sign of being disturbed in temper, or betraying
any kind of emotion.
"Do not press the matter,'b    onstratec
Forstall.W

"But I will though !" cried Rowan.  " If
he attempts to run, I will shoot him, as true as
my name is what it is."
" I think you are carrying the joke too far,
Rowan," added Forstall.
"It's no joke at all; and everybody that
knows me, knows that when I say a thing, I
abide by it.' 'Ahe fact is, I hate his stupidity
and his senseless cant about peace and all that
kind of thing, when in these times every strong
arm is needed."
"Thou art heating thy blood, friend," ob-
served Dawson.
"Only hear him !" cried Rowan, emphati:
ally.
Forstall and several others laughed heartily.
"I'm disgusted; I can't stand this no how.
I wish the brigade would stop a little while ;
just long enough for me to pulverize him out ofi
his cowhide shoes; it's a duty I owe to the
country !" said Ben, sentimentally.
He then bent over his saddle towards Paw-
son, and added in a suppressed, but meaning
voice :
"If you attempt to leave the ranks, my fine
fellow, I swear by Mount Vesuvius, and other
celebrated institutions, that I will shoot you
through the body before you have gone ten
- paces. That's all I've got to say.'"
" Act according to thy highest convictions of
right," returned Job, just as calmly as he had
hitherto spoken.
The horsemen swept on, increasing their cau-
tiousness as they approached the tory camps.
- It was nearly morning wheney halted about,
- a mile from Britton's        eneral Marion,
Major James, Colon          , and Captain
Logan, then held a bne consultation. They
I conversed earnestly for a few moments, and
o then took their respective positions according to
f rank. Marion then made a short and spirited
address to his men; he entreated them to re-
e member that they were fighting for liberty, for
t their homes and those they loved most dearly.
g He referred ti"m to the many wrongs they had
suffered, and the wanton cruelties practised by
d the loyalist' generally. He spoke of innocent


r" ,
Y    J  'u
t  " ,  }
S'
r

MARION'S BRIGADE.

blood poured -out like water upon the sacred  "Halt !"  said Marion, in a low  voice.
altars of liberty; of happy homes made desolate; "Mr. Forstall," he added, "go forward cau-
of beauty insulted ; and the holiest human rela- tiously and reconnoitre a little. Be prudent,
tons desecrated and trampled upon. He beg- and don't keep us waiting long."
ged of every man to bear these things in mind,  Forstall threw his bridle rein to Ben Roway,
and to strike home.                     ' dismounted, and proceeded to obey orders.
" We 'will strike deep and sure," said For-  He advanced silently about three hundred
stall.                                     yards, when the tory encampment appeared in
A murmur of approbation ran along the lines, full view. It was now near daylight, and sorme
and the men cried out in stern voices: -   of the enemy were already astir. In one place
"Lead us on 1"                         a group was sitting upon the earth, conversing
.This is as it should be !" -exclaimed Marion, in low tones, making themselves comfortable
proudly. " Your deep enthusiasm assures me over some kind of stimulating beverage. A
that victory is already ours. It only remains half dozen were stretched out at full lengthupon
for us to putto flight these heartless miscreants, the ground beside a smouldering fire, also en-
whose souls were never warmed by the pulsa- gaged in conversation. In another place t
tions of pity, and whose better feelings are not or three were standing, and as many more re-
touched by the plgadings of lovely woman -in lining.  Others were preparing to cook break-
gistress."                                 fast. The sentinels had neglected their-duty ;
Marion now.put himself at the head of the one was asleep on his post at a little yistanee
brigade, and the party again moved forward. from him, another was talking with some of het
Forstall though{ of Ruth Strickland, and earn- men. In the rear of the encampment, Forstalj
estly hoped that he might meet Gainey face to saw a few early risers looking after their ,hrses
face. Job Dawson was still in the ranksnext and rubbing them down.                 -
to Ben Rowan.   His great sabre hung at his  Our hero hastened back, related what he had
side, and his demeanor was characterized by the seen, and received the thanks of the general for
same tranquillity that had distinguished him his services. Preparations were instantly made
from' the first. Ben Rowan appeared rather to charge into the tory camp.. At that crisis,
surly, and occasionally cast threatening glances the accidental discharge of a pistol produced
sudden tumult in the enemy's quarters, and,
"Now comes, the rub of this game," he said warned them of the approach of armed men..
to the latter; ,and it wont be exactly whole-  Before a minute had elapsed, many of the
some for you to show your back to the enemy. tories were in the saddle, and the voice of Gainey
If you play us any of your Quaker tricks, I'll was heard calling on them to make a'bold stand,
send something after you that will bring you to and acquit themselves like men.
your earnings o'n.                           "Charge,;my brave fellows, and be merciful
"If thineen ,        thee on one cheek, to those who ask quarters !" cried Marion, and
turn to him the oth      said Dawson.      spurring his high settled horse, with drawn
You're a humbug 1" retorted.Rowan.     sword, he dashed into the half-formed ranks of
Be silent !" said Captain Logan.. "Yon- the royalists, followed by the brigade.
der are the camp fires of the tories. Softly, "Come on !" exclaimed Ben Rowan, darting
men, softly !  Hold on to your weapons--don't a threatening look at JobDawson. "La  mg
let them jingle too much. Be ready to charge of your war-scythe, and keep your face in the'
when the general gives the word. Try and do right direction-none  of the white.feather
your best, my boys. Give those.:heavy down- here."
ward cuts that saves the surgeonsany further  Frank Forstall glanced at Job. He observed.
trouble."                                 that he was,    calm and placid as usual; but

. i
4

MARION'S:
the large horse which he bestrode, was rearing
and plunging and champing the steel bit as if
animated and maddened with the spirit of battle

that prevailed among the warriors.
The brigade bore down like a resistless
avalanche upon the 6o1. discharge of pistols
and carbine did !t s'agger them, or do any
4 mischief; aad in an uiatant the sabres of the
dragoons were doing their fearful work.
Forstall resold to keep his eyes on poor
Job Dawson as much as possible, and 'hasten to
his assistance should his conscientious scruples
prevent him from attempting to defend himself
Our hero felt quite sure that were he ever so,
much disposed to fight, he could not wield the
extraordinary weapon with which he had provi-
ded himself. Notwithstanding all the excite-
ment of battle, he reproached himself that he
had not interfered to prevent Rowan from for-
cing him into danger.-
But it was now too late to indulge in regrets ;
and Job for a moment was shut out from his
sight by a cloud of smoke. Forstall had now
enough to occupy his attention, and as he laid
about him with all the strength and ardor which
the justness of his cause and aspirations for
military renown coulti .inspire, he had no time
to look after his Quaker friend.'
The tories fell back and made another stand,
encouraged by their comrades who had turned
out and rallied in the rear. At that juncture
Forstall saw Ben Rowan in a most critical posi-
tion, He had, in 'his impetuosity, advanced
beyond his division, and wassurrounded by the
enemy.
Forstall pressed the' spurs into his- horse's
sides, and endeavored to reach his friend; but
the tories had rallied, and he now found lumsel'
in an exposed and dangerous position; and h
gave up-Ben Rowan for lost.. Glancing towards
him a second time, he saw Job Dawson's mam
moth horse plunging forward with irresistible
fury, .bearing down all in his way until he Wa
half his length in advance of Rowan.    -
But what surprised our hero most of all wa
to see Job Dawson grasp his tremendous sabr
and swing it in the air as though  were but
2

20

BRIGADE.                                 21
flimsy lath. Forstall held his breath with as-
tonishment and expectation. He saw the pon-
aerous weapon descend with terrible velocity,
sweeping two of Ben's adversaries from their
saddles. Making no pause, he dashed on and
was obscured from view by a cloud of smoke ;
but Eorstall plainly heard the ringing of his
sabre as it met some opposing weapon.
In a short time the shout of victory was
heard from Marion's brigade. The tories threw
down their arms and begged for quarters. Those
who were not slain were made prisoners.
Forstall had singled out Major Gainey, fully
resolved to punish him for his impertinence to
the fair Ruth Strickland ; but he had not been
able during the brief contest to cross swords
with him, although he had the satisfaction of
seeing him captured by Colonel Horry. After
the prisoners were secured, Job Dawson was
discovered sitting by one of the tory fires, very
thoughtful, yet very placid.
Young Adair who had been made a prisoner
by Cunningham, was at liberty, and standing
near the Quaker ; and the latter's horse stood
beside his master, as quiet, apparently, as he
was.
"Verily, I hate contention," said Dawson.
"You have done yourself immortal honor l"
exclaimed Rowan, running up to him and grasp-
ing his hand.
" I don't understand thee, good Benjamin,"
replied Dawson, gently disengaging his hand.
"You fought like Samson among the Philia-
tines," said Ben.
" Thou art mistaken, fried  . I cannot fight
with carnal weapons. V      I am not a man
t of war," added Dawson.
S    "Do you mean to say that you didn't fight?"
s asked Ben Rowan, impatiently,
"I do," said Job.
e    " And that you didn't save my life .  eon-
s tinued Ben, with increasing emphasis.
"Even so," replied Dawson.
s    "Well, that's cool!" exclaimed Rowan.
e     Look at your sabre," said Forstall.
a    Dawson looked calmly at his bloody *eapon

, .
g
f
,


E

MARION'S BRIGADE.

:S

"Truly, there is blood upon this utensil of, soon as the general's back is turned; confound
war," he remarked.                          me, if I don't !"
"And the question is, how did it come       Forstall turned from this scene with a smile,
and with a singular feeling of uncertainty in re-
"I cannot tell, verily," said Job, gravely. - gard to the true character of Job Dawson.
" Come, none of that humbug stuff; because  In this affair not one of the brigade was slain,
I wont bear it. You did fight, and saved me and but few wounded, although the loss on the
from being cut fine enough for mince pies; and tory side was considerable. A guard was set
if you don't own up to it,I'll pulverize you as over the prisoners, and the victors breakfasted
at the loyalist encampment.
CIIAPTER IV.
CAPTAIN HAWES, AND THE INDEPENDENT FIRE EATERS.
HERE was quite a number of persons taken altogether, gave them     rather a unique
collected at Rocky Creek-on the Cataw- appearance.'
ba River. They were men used to toil and      The - "Independent Fire Eaters," as they
hardship ; they could wield the implements of were pleased to be called, were men leaned
agricultural industry, or level the rifle with onlyin the school of nature.  Though possessed
deadly precision. They could force the rugged of good practical sense, they had but a limited
soil to yield them a subsistence, or live by hunt- knowledge of polite literature, or drawing-room
ing the game with which that section abounded. conventionalities. With these prefatory words,
Those hardy pioneers had met to be initiated we will, with the reader's consent, allow the
into warlike arts. They had heard of the vil- captain to proceed with the drill, hoping that
lanes of Wemyss, Cunningham, Huck, Gainey his peculiarities of style will be considered in a
and Ferguson, and, in fact, some of them had charitable spirit.
already been despoiled by tory cupidity.      " Corporal' Higgins, straighten up y.er file.
The men of Rocky Creek were now drawn up Tom Jones, turn yer toes out, and look more
in line, armed with muskets, rifles and fowling- soldier-like.  Attention the hull-heads up!
pieces. A tall,  in-looking man, with sharp Joe Sawyer, which way are you lookin'?"
features, and ho ht colored hair, was in the . " I'm cross-eyed, cap'en," said Joe.
act of drilling th  This individual was no   Nicodemus Hawes fell .back a few paces,
less a personage than   Captain  Nicodemus and contemplated his company with obvious-ad-
Hawes; who had been unanimously chosen to migration; then deliberately unsheathing a sword
command the "Independent Fire Eaters," be- which had doubtless been long in the flawes
cause he had seen some service. This officer family, for it was antique and rusty, he went on
was familiarly called by the men, "Captain with the,exercise.;
Nick," which familiarity he usually permitted  " Rear i-ank---take distance--march."
without rebuke.                               The evolution was performed with tolerable
The company numbered thirty persons. Like accuracy.
Marion's Brigade, they'wore no uniform, and   "I reckon   'll git the hang on't artery a
exhibited a curious variety of dresses, which while. In   ere pertickerler evolution, you

1

I

A

MARIN'SBRY  DE.20
must remember to step back four paces, and   "Fight it out !" exclaimed several in the
dress to the right; the sargeants take their ranks.
places in the front rank, and the non-commis-  "That's what I say. Nick Hawes will never
signed officers who are in the rear, stick where run as long as he can stand up and use a weapon
thoe aer Nw I'm goini' to put ye through o' war. Load your pieces with balls, and
another operation. Rear rank-close to the 'tarnal destruction to the feller that tries to shirk
fron    March ! Corporal Higgins, what on out, and not do his duty. It shan't never be
airth are ye dewin'-straighten 'em up. Tom  said by common' generations, that the Indepen-
Jones, you hold yer shootin' stick as though dent Fire Eaters ever turned their backs on their
you's afeared on't. Toe out, yer tarnal critters- enemies."
lean for'ard more and make yer chists more " Rght-right!" ran along the ranks of the
promernent. You can't stand the British bag- men of Rocky Creek.
anets without you stand bent a little to the front.  ."I admire your spirit," said the horseman,
Lieutenant Anderson willow shove you through who still sat upon his panting steed an inter-
some o' the manooal exercises, arter which, I'll ested listener. "I shall be most happy to take
make you an all-killin' speech, which'll raise all part in the fray."
the military sperit you, happen to have about  " You appear to be a pretty game sort of a
you.                                      chap yerself, stranger, and the Fire Eaters'll
Lieutenant Anderson proceeded with the drill, be glad of your help," replied Captain Hawes,
while Captain Nick observed them from a little warmly,
distance. While matters were progressing in  He then turned and addressed his men.
this manner, a horseman suddenly appeared    "Feller-soldiers ! there's a heap o' the real
upon the river road, approaching at a headlong grit in you, and I know it. I'll fix things in
speed.                                    -sich a way that we'll give the tories a lesson
"I wonder what's in the wind now'?" said they wont never' entirely disremember. I shall
the captain, approaching the lieutenant.   station ten of you right here where you are now,
omething uncommon, I should think," and ten in the thicket on that side of us, and
rep    the latter.  " He rides as though he the other ten in this on the left. When the
didn't value his neck very highly."        tories appear, they that remain here must re-
No more was said by the parties until the treat until the enemy are between the two
horseman dashed up in front of the company, thickets, when they will receive the fire of them
covered with dust, and much excited.       in ambush, after which every man must follow
"The tories," he cried, in a loud, clear my example, nd fight as long as I do. When
voice, "have discovered what you are about, I run, the re t of ye can begin to think about
and will soon be upon you. You must fight, it.  Arter we've licked the 'tarnal critters,
or save yourselves by flight."             we'll go hum and git some di er. I promised
"If they've, found- out what we're at so soon you an almighty smart sprinklin' of a speech;
as this, there must be some sneakin' informer but I reckon as how, I haven't got much time
amongst us !" exclaimed the captain. "And to spend in ndteral extemperaneous. outbursts
if there is, and we can discover him, he needn't of elegance, such as this ere occasion would be
expect no mercy. Sich traitors are the worst apt to bring out of a human of my native abili-
enemies of the country. How many of the tory ties. I jest want to remind you that you've all
villains do you think'll be upon us'?"     been stepped on by the sneakin'-tories ;- and it's
'"About forty, armed and mounted," replied high time for you to rise in your might and give
the man who had brought the news.         'em  pegickerler death. Or, in other words,
"You hear what he says, ~feller-soldiers; it's time to take arter the critters like several
what do you feel disposed to do, fljht, or run"/" streaks of greased lightnin', and as -many claps
asked Captain Nick.


41 RING'S BRIGA E.-                                        MARION'S BRIGADE.

of everlastin' thunder. I've jest earn that
Marion has done the handsome thing at Britton's
Neck. -A   hull body of the murderin' rascals
has been scared e'enamost out o' their seven
nateral senses and made prisoners. I like to
hear sich good tidin's. Sich explites fill my
physical corporosity with a blaze of glory that
threatens to burst up my constitution, and con-
sume my hullbeing. General Sumter is up and
dewin'. The next squall that strikes us, will
bring news of some all-fired tussle. Feller-
soldiers ! the eyes of unborn generations is
fixed upon us with awful-intensity.  This is an
ostentatious moment, and big with the destines
of nations yet to bust into life.  Don't be
afeared of powder and lead, and 'sich trifles,
Brave men don't fear to knock under when
their time comes. You can't die but once no
how you can fix it ; and if you die here, you'll
never be called upon to die anywhere else.
-   Independent Fire Eaters! straighten up-toe
out---keep a stiff upper lip--handle your fire-
locks and baganets like true men-emerlate the
deeds of Washington, Hannibal, and other
great leaders. Remember you are divided into
three sections, beginning at the right. The,
sections will now break of, and take the places
assigned them."
The, orders of Captain ,Hawes were imme-
diately obeyed ; and in a few minutes only ten
of the company occupied the plateau where they
had exercised. Lieutenant Anderson and Ser-
geant Davis commanded those who were con-
cealed in. the thicket, and the captain remained
with those left to decoy the enemy.
While the menbf Rocky Creek are waiting
for the approach of the stories, we will solicit the.
rea~dr's attention for a short time to the indi-
vidual-who had brought intelligence respecting
the contemplated 'onslaught of the.loyalists.-
During the captain's patriotic, and somewhat
original speech, he had dismounted and now
stood beside his: reekigg horse- with his arms
laid across the pomnuel of the saddle. He was
nearly thirtyyears.of age; apparently, lId of a
large and sinewy fraue. - Hi face, though semie-
whatstern in its expression,  a nevertheless;

quite handsome, and calculated to prepossess
one in his favor. It was evident, at the first
glance, that he was a man of firmness and reso-
lution, and well adapted to the times in which
he lived. He was armed with pistols and a
short carbine, and presented a very bold and
soldier-like appearance. Without farther pre-
liminary remarks, we will take the liberty to
introduce him; his name was John Henderson;
trusting that he will ultimately prove an agree-
able acquaintance.
"This is a dark picture in the history of
South Carolina," he observed to the .captain.
"I reckon you're about right, stranger,"
replied the latter. "Satan seems to be let
loose for a season to turn things upside down
in these parts."_
"We must fight, and there's no honorable-
alternative. The sword only can decide this
great question of right and wrong. There are
men enough in this State to achieve a glorious
victory, if they will only concentrate and or-
ganize under efficient leaders. See what'Oen
eral Marion has done within a few days; he
has infused new- courage into the hearts of the
people, notwithstanding the defeat of General
Gates at Camden.",
"'Tarnal destruction, stranger ! You.
mean to say ,that gates has been whipped~ at
Camden'?" exclaimed tIawes.
"It is too true ; he has sustained a total
defeat, and the remnant of the American army
is flying  panic-stricken  from  the successful
legions of Cornwallis; but Marion and Sumter
are destined to revive the courage of the patriots
and check British- presumption and tory out-
rages," replied Henderson.
"I feel as if you had given me a heavy blow
in the region of the stomach," said Captain.
Nick, sorrowfully.
"Never despond, sir, while yon are able to
bear. arms against the enemy," added Hen-
derson.
"Hark I" said Hawes.   "-I hear the tramp
of horses' feet. The tories are at hand, Now,
stranger, if you can do, as well assay, there'll
be a chance gr you nighty soon. Fomy par,

my blood begins to bile up tremendous. If my
brave fellows take good aim, we'll pay 'em off
for some of their old tricks and wanton cruel-
ties."
While Hawes was speaking, the advance of
the tory band swept round a point into sight,
and presently the whole party was visible.
As soon as the advancing horsemen perceived
the captain's little party of ten, they spurred
forward more furiously, with loud shouts of ex-
ultation. It was very obvious that they felt
sure of cutting the men of Rocky Creek to pieces,
without losing a man ; for it /seemed to them
like sheer madness for so small a party to
resist.
John Henderson sprang into the saddle, and
M
f     Captain Hawes hurried his men from the ap-
pkoaching enemy, at a.double quick step. When
he had retreated about an hundred yards, he
gave the order to "halt," and "right about
face ;" and the parties stood boldly with, their
front to the foe.1 e0
" Here I mean to stay !" exclaimed the cap-
tain, energetically,'"until some of them sad-
dles are empty. Straighten up, my lads, and
stand firm; and if they try to ride you down,
ad then let 'em ride on to the pints of
aganets, if they want'to. Here they are ;
now we'll see what our . sin ambush '11 do."
The tories came       onscious of danger ;
but the bold bearing  the handful of men un-
der Hawes caused them to abate their speed,
when they had reached the plateau between the
thickets. The moment was auspicious for the
patriots ; a well-directed fire blazed from the
ambushed Americans ; the effect was, to put
many of the tories hors du combat, and to throw
the rest into confusion.
IHawes improved the time and poured in his
fire, which effectually checked their advance.
The voice of the leader was heard trying to
rally the astonished tories; but they could not
be easily rallied ; for their enemies were con-
cealed from view, and their fears magnified their
numbers greatly.  The tory officers shouted
and threatened in vain; those who could do so,
turned and fled, and the officers were obliged to
follow their example.

When once fairly in motion, their terror seem-
ed to lend them wings, and they spurred on with-
out regard to order, glory, or superiors, until
they were far beyond the reach of the rifles of
the men of Rocky Creek.
"If your men were only mounted !" ex-
claimed Henderson.
"They must be mounted," replied Hawes.
"We can never do what we want to without
horses. I've been thinkii' on't for some time.
horses are scarce; for the Britishers and tories
have stolen the best ones ; but where there's a
will there's a way. Men, catch them  animals
that are running' about yonder, without riders."
Several of'the loyalists were found dead,
and half-a-dozen severely wounded. The dead
were buried on the spot, and the wounded suit-
ably cared for
"They didn't make' much by that move-
ment," said Hawes, thoughtfully; "and we are
in duty bound to thank you for it, stranger;"
he added, turning to Henderson. The latter
bowed without reply, and the captain resumed,
in a lower tone of voice:
"That there is an informer among my men,
I am fully convinced. The stories couldn't have
come down upon us so sudden, and with so
much certainty, if they hadn't been well inform-
ed about us. We've all been oncommon secret
in regard to our meeting's, and intentions; and
if there hadn't been a traitor among us, things
couldn't have leaked out so soon. If I can dis-
cover the infamous rascal, I reckon it'll go hard
with him !"
"Do you suspect any one ?" asked Hender-
son.
" Yes," replied Hawes; "and I shall keep
my eye on him mighty sharp. Come, stranger,
go with us up to the settlement; I should like
to have your advice, as you appear to be well
acquainted with the state of the country. I
have got a scheme in my head to provide my
fellers with horses and arms, and, I dare say you
are both able and willing' to assist me ; provi-
din' you aint otherwise engaged."
The Independent Fire Eaters were then
faced for the settlement, and marched away.

25,

0


MARION'S BRIGADE.

II

CHAPTER V.
THE INFORMER. KATE MARTIN.

O UR next scene opens at Rocky Creek, and
relates also to some of the actors in the
last chapter.
It was the dim hour of twilight. Captain
Hawes was seated beside a man who had been
mortally wounded in the affray of that very
morning. The apartment which the parties oc-
cupied was one' of those small, rough, and low
rooms found in the cabins of the early settlers
of a new country.
A single candle was burning upon a side-
board, and threw out a pale and sickly light
which rendered the wounded person's bloodless
face still more ghastly.
The -expression of Captain Hawes was seri-
ous, but not stern; yet far more dignified than
usual.
"The surgeon thinks there's no hope for me,"
said'the dying tory, faintly.
"Not in this world," replied Hawes.
"Then I must try and make the best im-
provement of what little time remains," added
the tory, speaking with much difficulty.
"I'm sorry, neighbor, that you're dyin' in a
bad cause," said the captain, sorrowfully. "We

are brethren, and citizens of one common' coun-
try ; and if you had been called on to give up
airthly things while fightin' side by side with
me, I shouldn't have felt so bad about it, be-
cause I have an idee that death under s
cumstances wouldn't have been disg
but glorious."
"I begin to fee,    tpy life is approach-
ing its close, that you  engaged in a more
honorable oause than that in which I received
this mortal wound,",returned the tory, sadly.
"I haven't come here to reproach you, by
no means whatever, friend Simpson; but there
is one thing I want to know  before you shut
your eyes forever on the changin' consarns of
this present world.  Our plans have been be-
trayed by some vile traitor, who eats-bread with
us daily; I want to find out the name of the
villain, and I hope you'll feel free to tell me.
You probably can't hold out more than an hour
or two at most, and perhaps gettin' sich a-thing
as that off from your conscience, may kind of
straighten you up for the change, and make you
stand firmer, and with a bolder front, before the
great Commander-in-chief of all the armies of
the airth."

v

Simpson shuddered, and for a moment was
sp much convulsed that he was unable to reply.
When he became easier and calmer, he turned
his glassy eyes towards the captain with an ex-
pression truly mournful.
"I know, Captain Hawes, that an informer
and traitor is- the most despicable og all char-
acters," he said, slowly, pausing often to recov-
er breath and strength; " but I can foresee the
consequences of making such a disclosure ; the
traitor will be punished without mercy ; and
perhaps that would be best in the end, for all
parties. If it hadn't been for him, I should
now be as strong and well as you are ; but he
and others persuaded me into the fatal move--
ment that resulted in this terrible wound which
is bearing my body to the grave, and my im-
mortal part to the unknown country."
The story paused, and a sharper twinge ex-
torted a cry of agony.
" Ah !" he exclaimed, " these dreadful pains
are hurrying me away ; it can't last long in this
manner. I hope you will see me decently buri-
ed and if you should ever meet my poor wife
and children, say to them all you can that is
comforting ; and tell the oldest boy when he
gets old enough to bear arms, not to fight
a4 ist his own country where he first drew
breath, and from whose so ' has received food
and drink.?'
"Yes, I'll do it-A 'wont forget-but the
name of the traitor-speak while you have
-strength, for the drummer of death is beating
the reveille to the parade ground of eternity."
Simpson hesitated a moment, as if not quite
decided, and then motioned for Hawes to give
him his ear. The captain bent over the dying
g    man eagerly, and he whispered a name.
" It is well," said Hawes. "I reckon the
accoutrements of your conscience will be in
_   better order for inspection, when you answer
the last roll-call. I am myself rather a hard,
sinful man, and not qualified to advise a feller-
critter in sich an emergency as this ; but I.
. should think it would be well for you to ground-
your arms at the feet of the Everlasting Com-
mander, and humbly beg for quarters. I have

Q

(

27

hearn say that he is verymerciful and consid-
erate like, and who knows, but even at this
eleventh hour, you may be marched away to
eternal rest."
jI thank you, I'm sure, for your well-meant
kindness," said Simpson, while a tear moisten-
ed his dim eye. " I hadn't supposed that you
were so kind and so manly. I hope we shall
meet in the ranks of heaven, where all is con-
cord and peace. As you go along, I wish you
would be good enough to ask Elder Martin to
step in and see me."
" I will ; it's a good idee, for he knows bet-
ter than I do what you will need on the long
march," said Hawes.
"I hope you'll forgive me, neighbor," added
Simpson, stretching out his cold hand.
"God knows how freely," said the captain,
in a subdued voice. "Good-by, Simpson, till
I jine the army above," he added.
. " Farewell, captain. If I could recover, I
would gladly fight under you. - Farewell, for the
drummer of death is indeed beating the reveille,"
said Simpson, feebly ; and a moment after
Hawes was proceeding towards home in a very
thoughtful mood. He met Henderson on the
way, and the two walked away together, con-
versing in a friendly manner until they were
opposite the dwelling of Rev. William Martin.
"I must call here," said the captain.
"Come, go in with me, for Mr. Martin is a man
of the right sort."
"With pleasure," replied Henderson. "I
have often heard Mr. Martin's name mention-
ed, and I should be pleased to see a preacher
who does not shrink from his duty in times like
these, when one scarcely knows friend from foe-.
the true from the false."
"He aint by no means afeared to speak out,"
rejoined Hawes.  "Last Sabbath he preached
a sermon that made every patriot that heard
him willin' to lay down his life for the cause of
liberty."
Hawes knocked at the door, and both were
immediately admitted by the pastor in person.
The former introduced Mr. Henderson, and
they were soon on excellent terms. The min-

t PF
'

0 '


MARION'S BRIGADE.                      29

ister was truly a manuf,sense and courage whose
name will long be remembered by the country
for which he labored and suffered. While he
was engaged in an animated discussion with
Henderson, the door was opened and a young
lady entered the room.    Mr. Martin, with
characteristic politeness, instantly introduced
her to his new acequaintance as his daughter
Kate.
Mr. Henderson arose, bowed, and said he
scarcely knew what; for the sudden and unex-
pected appearance of such a female as he now
beheld disconcerted him not a little.
Kate Martin was exceedingly fair of face,
and of a figure exquisitely formed for grace and
symmetry. And when we have passed these
encomiums upon her, we have not said all that
the case allows of; for she possessed good sense,
and energy of character ; two traits that serve
greatly to enhance the charms of personal beauty.
Kate, though gentle and modest, might also be
called a brilliant girl; inasmuch as she was
liberally endowed with those high qualities
which are calculated to make every legitimate
effort more or less brilliant.
Mr. Henderson prolonged his visit until a
late hour in the evening, for he felt the power
of Kate Martin's attractions like the spell of
some agreeable enchantment, the witchery of
which it was not easy to shake off, and he left the
residence of the worthy pastor, a devoted ad-
mirer of his daughter. Her fair idea had taken
undisputed possession of his thoughts, and he
did not wish to dispel it, or break the soft
charm which she had unwittingly east over his
spirit.
We will not in this place dilate farther upon
the state of Mr. Henderson's feelings, but fol-
low the course of events in the order that they
transpired at Rocky Creek.
Upon the following morning at an early hour
Hawes's company was paraded. It was observed
by all that'the captain's manner was moi-e stern
and dignified than at the previous drill; but
what it portended, few or none of them could
tell.
" We shan't go through the marchin's and

firing's this mornin' in the usual manner," said
Hawes. " There is some business to be attend.
ed to, that can't very well be put off. I trust,
feller-soldiers, that not one on us is afeared to
meet an enemy in the field knowin' him to be
an enemy ; but all on us is feared of informers
1 and traitoss, who steal in among us to betray us
to the merciless tories, whose way over our
country is marked with blood and fire. Yes,
the snake-like, creeping traitor we all despise,
by whatever name he may be called.   Neigh-
bors and feller-soldiers, there's one on 'em
among us."
Captain Hawes paused an instant, and"each
man looked anxiously at his comrades.
"If there's any sich chap in our ranks, let's
find him out !" exclaimed Sergeant Davis and
several others.
"That's our business this' mornin'," added
the captain.
" who is he-who is he ?" ran from mouth
to mouth, along the ranks.
"That's a question that's very nateral to ask,
feller-soldiers; but it is a question I can an-
swer. Know the villain ; he stands here afore
us, tremblin' with the consciousness of his guilt,"
continued the captain.
"Speak his name-speak his name !" oriff
several voices. pe -
"What ought ,to     the reward of sich a
scoundrel, who sells his neighbors to a band of
murdering'  ruffians ?"  asked  the  captain,
sternly.
"Death !" exclaimed twenty voices.
"You are right, feller-soldiers," answered
the captain ; " ich a wretch richly merits death,
and before yonder bright sun is one hour older,
he'll be summoned to that muster-ground where
nobody can practise deception-where nobody
can carry concealed weapons to strike at his
feller-critter's life in the dark,,when he aint sus-
pectin' no danger. The informer shall die."
Again the men glanced from one to'another,
to see whose countenance indicated guilt, or
fear, or both.
" I will now pronounce the traitor's name,"
added the captain, slowly and impressively.

There was a moment of silence and intense
suspense. Every man held his breath and
clutched his weapon more firmly.
"Yes, I will speak his name," repeated the
captain, with thrilling energy. He paused the
second time, and all eyes were fixed with in-
describable eagerness upon him.
"(His name," added Hawes, in the same
slow, measured voice, dwelling upon each word
as though he never intended to quite utter it-
"his name is Joe Sawyer!/"
An exclamation of surprise and deep indig-
nation arose from the ranks. The features of
Joe Sawyer, which lad before been exceedingly
pale, grew absolutely ghastly in their whiteness.
.    For an instant he appeared completely paralyzed
and rooted to the spot ; his ashy lips vainly
essayed to form some words, and his eyes stared
fixedly into vacancy..
"nTake away his arms," said the captain.
Joe Sawyer was disarmed,, and his equip-
ments torn from him by indignant hands, before
he had recovered from the stupor which the ter-
rible denouement had produced. These ener-
getic and significant movements brought back
the faculties of speech and volition.
He wildly protested his innocence, and ab-
jectly entreated for mercy in the same breath.
"I've always been true to-you, and I hate
an informer. For heaven's sake, spare me, and
I'll tell you all I know about the tories !" he
exclaimed, wringing his hands, and exhibiting
a degree of bodily fear that was truly pitiable
and yet revolting.'
";Bind him " said the captain, waving his
hand.
Instantly the order was obeyed ; although
the culprit writhed and struggled desperately,
and shrieked incessantly for mercy.
"5Are we not neighbors and friends ?" he'
exclaimed.- "Have ye no ;pity. This is mur-
'     der-this is butchery-this ,is horrible-mercy,
mercy!"
"Sargeant Davis, take a file of men and
march the traitor fifteen paces to the front,"
added the captain, firmly.
The struggling, despairing mortal was drag-
ged to the position indicated.

" Joe Sawyer," added Hawes ; "your time
has come. We are about to give you an eter-
nal discharge from the armies of the airth.
You know very well that you aint fit to die;
and that a human critter wasn't never more
onprepared for the dead march than.you are.
But we can't help it; it isn't our fault, but
yours. ' A crime like yours, can't be forgiven in
this world, although I can't say but it may be
in the next.. It's no use for you to try and git
out of the scrape, for there isn't a man here
that want's you to live any longer. Many of
these men have got wives and children ; but
yet you was villain enough to sell them, and
their innocent ones, to an enemy that had no
pity for helpless babes, or defenceless beauty.
We will show you the mercy of shootin', instead
of hangin'; which is more than we should have
received, had your villany been successful. I
shall now allow you about five minutes to equip
yourself for another world. So you had beta
ter straighten up, and make the most on't."
The time allotted to Sawyer to make pre-
paration for death, was spent in petitioning for
mercy from his earthly judges, instead of asking
it of one who does not despise the prayers of a
contrite spirit.
"Lieutenant Anderson," said Hawes, " take
three or four men and load all the muskets,
putting a blank cartridge in every other one ;
then return them to the company indiscrimi-
nately."
This order was also obeyed.
"Joe Sawyer, your time is up ; stand up like
a man, and meet the reward of your treachery ;
though I reckon it's difficult to show much
courage in i bad cause. If one of my fellers
should be taken by the tories, he wouldn't flinch
like that ; he'd straighten right up, stand stiff on
his pegs, toe out, jist as if he was on parade,
and dress boldly to the front ; that's the way
brave men knock under, when worst comes to
worst."
" The knave wont stand up," said Sergeant
Davis.
"Let hi'm kneel down, then," replied the
captain.

MARION'S BRIGADE.

i


30                     MARION'S BRIGADE.

" He wont do that," rejoined the sergeant.
" Let him sit down," said the captain.
"He wont do that either," remarked th
sergeant.
"Well, let him lay on the ground, then, i
he wants to; it wont make no'great odds," re
turned the captain.
"He hasn'tcourage enough to do one thing of
the other," added the sergeant.
"Tie him to that little sapling !" exclaime
the captain, impatiently.
We will not endeavor to depict the agony o
fear that convulsed poor Sawyer,'and'made him
continue his frantic efforts, and to cry out for
mercy, even after he was lashed firmly to a
tree.  Feeling that his doom was just, no man
interfered in his behalf; not because they were
cruel or vindictive, but because they believed
the times demanded such an example; for it
might deter others from the same practices, and
thus result in incalculable good to their beloved
country.
The terrible tragedy was about to be brought
to a close, when the proceedings were unex-
pectedly interrupted. Kate Martin suddenly
appeared, mounted upon - a fleet horse, which
she had evidently ridden at his greatest speed.
She reined up gracefully and fearlessly between
the soldiers and the pleading culprit, although
the captain had given the order to "present
arms."
"I have come to prevent this terrible retri-
bution 1" she exclaimed. "I entreat that this
unhappy man's life may be spared."
"Do not interrupt the course of justice, Miss
Martin," said the 'captain. "Move to the
right."
"No, no ! I will remain where I am," re-
plied Kate, firmly.
"It is necessary, Miss Martin, that this exe-
cution should take place," added the captain.
"I know he is guilty," returned Kate, "but

in the name of mercy, and in my father's name,
spare him."
e    " We all respect and love you, Kate Mar-
tin," rejoined Hawes ; but you will oblige us
f by moving to the right.  Not one of my men
will present a musket to fire while you remain
there."
r    " I add my entreaties to hers," said Mr.
Henderson, who had been a silent spectator of
d the exciting scene frdm the beginning.
"Ask in your own name, Miss Martin," said
f one of the men, in a low voice.
. " Yes, ask in your own name," repeated
many others.
"" I will, I do ask in my own name, that this
awful scene may end without the shedding of
blood !" cried Kate, earnestly.
"Your request is granted," replied the-cap-
tain; "though it's altogether contrary to the
rules and regulations of the service ; but as
brave men, we can't find it in our hearts to re-
sist the pleadin's of WOman, when she straight-
ens up afore us in her beauty, and speaks on
the side of mercy. Sargeant Davis, untie the
prisoner, and he may hear his sentence from
the fair lips of Kate Martin."
"I am very grateful for this mark of esteem,"
said Kate ; " and I thank you all sincerely:"
Joe Sawyer, as soon as he was released, sank
upon his knees and poured out his emotions of
gratitude in tears, incoherent thanks, and bless-
ings.
"Go," exclaimed Kate, waving her white
hand ; "go, and be an honest man; and let the
future atone for the past."
"Cheers for Kate Martin, the fairest of
South'Carolinian girls !" cried Lieutenant An-
derson, enthusiastically.
"Three times three !" added the captain.
The cheers were given with hearty emphasis ;
and Kate Martin bowed and smiled bewitching-
ly to the bold men of Rocky Creek..-

CHAPTER VI.
RUTH sTRICKLAND.
N  hour after the capture of Gainey by from impertinence. But dignity and modesty
Marion's Brigade, young Forstall mount- are not incompatible with cordiality, as our hero
ed his horse and rode up to Mr. Strickland's. discovered, much to his satisfaction.
That the fair Ruth was the principal object of his  "We have heard of your gallant exploits at
visit we shall admit without cavilling. In order Britton's Neck this morning," said Miss Strick-
that there may be no misunderstanding in re- land, earnestly.
gard to the real relations which existed between  Frank Forstall colored and replied, " that
the young lady referred to and our hero, we the credit was due principally to the gallantry
shall here state that no verbal avowal of his sen- and prudence of General Marion, who had plan-
timents had yet been made by him ; but that ned the expedition."
he had expressed his admiration in numberless  " Major Gainey and his conifederates have dis-
other ways.                                tressed the peaceable inhabitants not a little
Ruth Strickland knew that she was beloved, during their brief stay here, and every heart
but we cannot aver that Frank Forstall had will be rejoiced that they have been thus check-
the same comforting assurance so far us the for- ed in their career of crime," added Ruth, with
mer was concerned. - Various emotions agitated increased enthusiasm.
his mind when he entered the dwelling and    "Your words fall most agreeably upon my -
stood in the presence of the maiden dearer than ears," said Frank, warmly. " To hear you dis-
all others. He was conscious of feeling some course thus more than rewards me for any peril
pride and considerable confusion. Ruth re- I may possibly have incurred, or any agency I
ceived him with'her usual modesty, and that may have exercised in securing the welcome
dignity which was natural to her.          result."
Though dignity, in A_ maiden, often chills the  "Indeed, Mr. Forstall, I express but feebly
hopes of her admirer, it must be remembered and imperfectly the joy which this unexpected
that it also secures his respect, and shields her event has produced among-us. I am sure that


MARION'S BRIGADE.

MARION'S .BRIGADE.

the news of this victory of right over wrong, will to be borne calmly by either mother or daughter.  is, and despite all the efforts of their leader,
cause h    o revive in every patriotic heart. For a few moment they abandoned themselves  fled the field, followed by the North Carolina
Our good neighbors say that hundreds who were to that grief which such sad' tidings would na-  brigade; but the day was not entirely lost.
about to take royal protection, will, when they turally inspire. Mrs. Strickland was the first  The continentals, under the noble Baron de
hear of this victory, be induced to change their to regain a degree of firmness.             Kalph, stil'stood firm and unappalled, support-
determination, and hasten to swell the ranks of  "This is not a time for tears and despon-   ed by Dilon and his gallant regiment. It was
Marion and Sumter," returned Ruth, with still denyy" she said, wiping her eyes with wonder-  in vain that the infantry of Rawdon bore down
"reter earnestness.                      ful self-control and calmness.  "Let us rather    upon them in their might; and that Tarleton's
"sIt is pleasant todbe thus cheered on and strive to rise above grief and sorrow, and      drgoons were hurled against them  in awful
stimulated to heroic deeds by the gentle voice strengthen each other for the trials yet in re-  fury. Their gleaming bayonets met them with
ofwoman," replied the young man,.feelingly, serve for us. We should remember that it is no   fearful aughter while high over the red field
and                                                                                               themataugh ;
and in a voice somewhat agitated; "but, Miss worse for us who remain at home, than for       arose    mighty battle-shout of the-undaunted
Sticklahou  ira old be moe pleasant if--"  those who go forth, to suffer (in our defence)  de Kalph. Rank after rank were swept away
Although Frank had felt no fear when he   pounds and imprisonments. If -they can bear  n   by the fiery bolts of pitiless war; men and
met the swords of Gainey's dragoons; he now these tings for our sakes, ought we not to sub-  hoses and nodding plumes went down, and the
quailed and trembled before the soft eyes of mit patiently to our lot whatever it may be ?"  convict raged with tenfold violence over the
anRuth    -n     T  sentence was left unsaid,  The individual who had brought sueh melan-   trampled and mangled bodies  man and beast.
and Ruth was confused past description. What choly news to Britton's'Neck, was alsurgeon"centrate
might have next ensued, it is impossible to tell; attached to Dixon's rit of North  r         g  Cornwallis concetad    Rawon fo
for while       was stammering, and coloring linians. He had witnessed the battle at Cam-     the feld with the impetuosity of their charges.
 is eyebrows, a mar rushed into the room, den,'and, the defeat of General Gates.       The enemy's artillery shot forth their hot light-
bringing the news of the battle of Camden, and  To Mrs. Strickland's remarks, he replied,     nings, and made bloody roads through the con-
"The isarms efeaofenhil Gate s.  "that such sentiments were worthy of A menkp     tjnental-troops ; but when the brave fellows fell,
"The   army is annihilated !". he cried ; women, and he was happy to be able to add         others closed in, and filled up the pathways
"ourh tropae yi g in every direction, and that they were generally prevalent among her   made by the engines of death. Never was a
South Carolina is lost."                   sex ; and that very fact -would contribute t0      man more sublime in his courage than Baron
pa y father was there I" exclaimed Ruth, make heroes of all who were capable of beaten     de Kalph on that eventful day. ils noble
pale with -fear.                           arms.                                              figure towered up like a rock of granite before
"Lost! lost!" exclaimed the man, wildly.   "As you were an eye-witness of the-battle'       the mad efforts of charging squadrons, and des-
"Murder and spoliation will now be the order you will greatly oblige and interest us  giving  pite the accumulated horrors of the indescrib-
of the 'day."                              some description of it; for we are anxious to      able scene. He fell at last; the brave heart
"This is indeed dreadful news," said For- know who fought and who fled; who gave their      fell, pierced with many'wounds, and the legions
stall", A w -nf                          bosoms manfully to the foe, and who sought         of Cornwallis swept in triumph and carnage, in
"And what-of my father'?  Can you tell me safety in shameful retreat," said Forstall.       smoke and in flame, over the plain.
anything of jim ?"  added  Ruth,  painfully  "I can give you but an imperfect idea of 'While de Kalph lay with his face to the
wrought upon. .                            the terrible encounter," returned the surgeon.,     foe, still grasping his blunted blade, General
Speak and tell us all, if you know," said "The battle commenced with the first blush      Gates was being borne ingloriously from the
Mrs. Strickland, who entered the apartment at of morning. The rising sun threw his earliest    scene by the headlong haste of rushing hundreds
beams upon the embattled lines of the two hose      seeking safety in flight. It was in vain that he
"hExcuse me, friends," he rejoined;  "-I tile armies. The-thunder of artillery announced     endeavored to stem the retreating tide; it was
ad'nearly lost sight of the details, in contem- that the work of death had commenced; and    in vain that he. shook his sword wrathfully; it
platoon of, the general disaster. I regret to be then General Gates's left moved forward, under  was in vain that he entreated them for heaven's
obliged to inform you that Mr. Strickland is a General Stevens, preceded by a skirmishing       sake to make a stand, and retrieve the fortunes
prisoner. He was captured, with hundreds of party of volunteers commanded  by Colonel           of the day. Threats and entreaties were alike
cathes, while fighting nobly for the common Williams. These demonstrations were promptly        unheeded ; fear reigned predominant among the
cause."                                    met by the enemy. ' General Stevens's brigade        broken and flying ranks."
The shock of this intelligence was too great gave way before the veteran troops of Cornwal-  The surgeon ceased, and for a moment the

lips of the listeners were silent with sorrow.
Mrs. Strickland was the first to speak.
" You have not spoken particularly of my
husband," she remarked.
"I can only tell you hat he stood firm with
those who remained on the feld, and. was taken
about the time Baron de Kalrh fell," replied
the surgeon.
"Captivity is far better than disgrace," said
Mrs. Strickland.  "I should have grieved
more deeply had he been with those who fled
the fight."
" Right, madam, right !" exclaimed the sur-
geon. " Cowardice is more to be deplored than
imprisonment, wounds, or death."
The surgeon soon 'after took leave, and For-
stall and Miss Strickland were again left to-
gether. The former would have renewed the
conversation which had been interrupted by the
entrance of the surgeon, but he had not the
presence of mind to do so ; he therefore en-
deavored to comfort his fair companion by hold-
ing out every hope of her father's release that'
the circumstances of the case would possibly
admit.
" I presume," said Frank, " that this news
affects you deply ; and it is but natural that it
should ; but I am inclined to the belief that his
exchange can be effected without much diffl-
culty."
" American prisoners, you are aware, are not
treated with common humanity," replied Ruth.
"1 any sink under the rigors of their condi-
tion, and perish more miserably than if they
had died on the field of battle."
"I feel the truth of your last remark," re-
turned Forstall; "but I wish you to under-
stand that I shall make every effort to-free him
from captivity;"
"Do so, Mr. Forstall, and whether' you suc-
ceed or not, be assured that I shall not be un-
mindful of your exertions," rejoined Ruth.
" I know of no peril that I would not dare
in order to win your good opinion," replied
Frank, with considerable warmth.
"You shall have my constant prayers for
your safety and success," added Iuth, timidly.


MARION'S BRIGADE.

"If your lips pray for me, Ruth, I shall in- river. So far as I am able to judge from vague
deed be safe and successful !" exclaimed For- reports that have recently reached me, he is a
stall.                                     most extraordinary character."
"Hark ! what do I hear !" cried Ruth,-with " I do not remember of ever having heard of
some agitation of manner.                  him until yesterday, when I saw him in the
"The bugles of Marion's Brigade," said ranks of the brigade," answered Forstall.
Frank, proudly.  " They are coming this way ;  The brigade made a short halt, and Frank
it is the signal for me to leave you."     gave Miss Strickland.a hurried account of what
The parties went to the door to obtain a view he knew and had seen, in relation to Job Daw-
of the brigade.                            son, to which she listened with evident interest.
"Which is General Marion ?" asked Ruth.    "The dragoons are in motion again," he
"That small man at the head of the brigade," added, as the brigade moved on.. "I will re-
was the reply.                             member my promise, andif your father does not
"Who is that large man in the centre of the regain his liberty, I trust it will n'ot be any fault
first rank ?" continued Miss Strickland.   of mine.. If I should fall in battle, and we
"That is Job Dawson, a very singular per- should never meet again, I-I--"
sonage indeed," replied Forstall, with a smile.  "Fall in ! Mr. Forstall, fall in !" cried Cap-
"Is he a Quaker ?"                      tain Logan, pleasantly.
"He is, and talks much about loving peace  "Farewell, Ruth," stammered Frank, and
and hating contention."                    vaulting into the saddle, fell into his place,
"I have heard of him," said Ruth.  " His leaving the fair Ruth with an unwonted mois.
name has been mentioned in connection with a ture in her soft, blue eyes.
stain young lady who live farther up the-

x
iLL
t
i
Q
t
5-
qi
i
Y
e
i
t '
e
.nib 6t
, ,k1-.

IHE bugles gave a merry blast, the sabres
jingled, and the brigade swept forward.
"I shall have to pulverie this fellow yet,"
said Ben 'Rowan.
" What's the trouble now ?" asked 'rank.
"He's a humbug I"
" Didst thou address me, good Benjamin ?"
said Dawson.
"Do yu hear that ?" exclaimed Ben.
Verily, thou art irascible," added Job.
"I shall wait you to hold my coat, hat, and
other fixin's," continued Rowan to Frank,
"What for ?" inquired the latter.
"While I pulverize him."
"I think that -will be ungrateful l; he saved
your life," remonstrated Forstall.
"That's.the very thing," said Rowan ; " he'
saved my life and wont own it. I don't like
to be fooled and have the wool pulled over my
eyes.. There's nothing like pulverizing such
chaps; it does 'em a monstrous sight of good ;
it deepens their religious convictions, and keeps
em in their place."
" Thou art in the gall of bitternss, friend
Benjamin," observed Dawson..

"If I was a regerler saint I couldn't bear
it," said Ben, in the tone of a person conscious
that he was practising the sublimest forbearance.
"And in the strong bonds of iniquity," add-
ed Job, mildly.
"To think that such a humbug should dare to
safe my life ! it makes me mad enough to eat
my own sabre," continued Ben, sentimentally.
Passing over the details of Bert Rowan's
wranglings, and reflections against the conduct
and character of the quiet Dawson, we will state
that the brigade encamped at its fornier posit
tiort on the Sante. At that place Geirral
Mariott spent several days drilling his men,
while many hastened to join his ranks.  One
morning the general was infornied that a man
from Rocky Creek wished to see him; and in a
few moments after, Captain Nicodemus. Hawes
was ushered into his presence.
"I'm eap'en of the Independent Fire Eaters,"
said Hawes.   I'te hearts of your gallant ex-
plites, and have ldme down tojine you with
my felle; and they're 'tarnal critters for a
tussle , s any you can find anywhere in thes4
diggin's."

7

84

CHAPTER VIT
CAPTAIR tHAWES $OINS MARION'S BRIGADni.

a


MARION'S BRIGADE.

MARION'S BRIGADE.

" Just such fellows as I want !" exclaimed
the general, with a smile. " How many have
you brought ?"
"We number about thirty-five now, more
nor less, big and little, great and small, take
'em as they stand, on an average," said Cap-
tain Nick.
" You think they're made of the right kind
of material ?" remarked Marion, musingly.
"Warrant 'em to whip in all cases," rejoin-
ed Hawes, laconically.
Right, sir, right !"  said the  general.
"Are they mounted ?"
"None to speak on ; because horses are
mighty scarce up our way ; but we can soon
take some away from the Britishers, general;
for as I said afore, we're onspeakable at a rough
and tumble tussle. I've got 'em straightened
up in line jest out yonder, and if you'll step
out, I'll put 'em through the gamut a few times,
to show yeu what they can do."
To this proposition Marion assented willing-
ly, and accompanied.Captain Hawes to the spot
indicated.
The Independent Fire Eaters were paraded,
and flawes proceeded to exercise them in his
own peculiar manner.
"Attention the hull!  Straighten up, you
tarnal critters.  Dress to the front, and no
squintin'. . If any on ye haint been to break-
fast, say so.  This man that you see here, is
General Marion ; and, as 'you all know, he's
arter the Britishers with a sharp stick ; and he
means to fuller 'em like the ceaseless footsteps
of everlastin' dath. He's a brave man, and
has been, gifted with a better education, and
can make a smarter speech,.perhaps, than I can ;1
but I can feel in my heart all that he 'knows
to express in words; and it swells within me
inexpressible, until it e'enamost alarms 'me for
the safety of my nateral constitution, and threat-
ens a uniiversal collapse'of my idees. The star
of our liberties has ris, and shines down upon us
today right smart; and it wont never set until
everything has busted up that's' combustible.E
Whoe we're heat from the field, theAi1 be a
gineral smash in the universe, and chaos, anda

other unmitigated nsances will prevail quite
extensively. When we're put down and con-
quered, there wont be men enough left at hum
to call the rest to dinner. The dragon of war
is riding' like a spread eagle through our land,
robbin' hen-roosts and gran tries, devastating
widows, and other branches of industry, which
have caused our heretofore happy sie to bud
and blossom like the roses of Lebanon."
The captain' ..paused, a mon/cat and then'
went on :
"Toe out, you tarnal critters. Endeavor to
rise with the subject, and feel that each on ye
has enough of the real grit to. make. a dozen
heroes, and a good dog, besides, leavin' a small
remnant at that. . Stand firm-hold up-throw
out your chists ! Corporal Higgins, there's a
kink in your section-John Smith, try to look
an inch and a half taller. Shoulder- freloch.
Very well; dew it agin. Work a little faster,
boys. Perkins, you aint quite orthodox yet-
your toad sticker is on hind side afore. All
eyes to the front. Present-arms. Let:'he
muzzles falla little more ; that'll do. hr --
baganets.. Be brisk, my lads, and imnaginethe
enemy is right afore you. Very welldone---
perwidin' you all had baganets. Shoulder 'em
up agin. Lieutenant Anderson will now shqve
you  through the firin's, marchi*'s, and'
wheelin's."
The captain ceased, and General Marion ,ex-
pressed himself pleased with the performances.
"To-night," he, added, "I intend to, pr-
prise a company of tories, under Captain Bar-
field, who are posted not far from here, between
us and the Pedee. If I am successful, I sall
have horses enough to mount you all to-morrw.'
You have heard of Cunningham's escape.Isup-t
pose ?"            '
"Yes ; and he's collectin' men in. the neigh-
borhood of Rocky Creek. You may depend
on't, he means 'to do mischief," replied Hawes.
" He cannot do more than equal. the enor-
mities of Tarleton- and Wemyss," said the gen-
eral.
"Ishould like to have a hand in this Bafleld
affair," added Captain Nick.

I shall be glad to have your company, cap-
tain, with what -men you can mount," answered'4
SMarion.
It is onlynecessary to add, in this place, that
. the contemplated movement was carried into
effect successfully. Frank Forstall took an:ac-1
- tive part in the engagement, and attracted the
~ articular attention of General Marion; he was
ti promised a lieutenantey as soon as a. vacancy
should occur.- This was very gratifying to
Frank's laudable ambition, and he wondered'
whether Miss Kate Strickland would feel any
pleasure when she received the news that he had
conducted himself in a, soldier-like and becom-
ing manner.  Such a favorable commencement
of his military career stimulated him to ,greater
efforts; and' his manly bearing and straight for-
ward deportment secured him the respect of all
who made his acquaintance.{
i-one watched the progress of events with
deeper interest than Forstall. -General Marion's
high qualities as a leader, had inspired him with
congdence, and he looked forward with hope to
new and more brilliant achievements.
During the engagement with Barfield's band
of tories, Job Dawson had again been seen to
ride furiously into the ranks of the foe ; but he
affirmed that his horse was unruly, 'and he'had
been carried into danger againsthis will.
This version of the affair, Ben Rowan would
by no means accept ; for he stoutly and persever-
ingly asserted that he had seen him spur his
horse into the teeth of the enemy, overturn two
tory horsemen, and cleave .a third with his
huge sabre. When honest Job assured his
somewhat choleric friend Ben, that there must
be some illusion about what he professed to
have witnessed, he flew at once into a violent
passion, and if Forstall had not interfered, he
would doubtless have proceeded to extremities,
as he was greatly in favor of the pulverizing
system in all cases of " humbug," and obstinacy,
or what he chose to consider as such.
There was evidently some mystery about the
character of Job Dawson, which neither Frank
Forstall nor any of his new acquaintances could
solve. The peculiariges of the Quaker had at-
3

tracted the attention of not only the men, ,but
of the officers; and even Marion himself regard-
ed him with much curiosity.
It seemed singular, to Frank, and others, that
Dawson should linger after he. had concluded
the ostensible object of- his appearance among
them. If he really "hated bloodshed," why
did he not leave the brigades as soon as he was
at liberty to do so ?  Did he stay with thedxa-
goons because he believed he should be safer
with them than anywhere else? ,ad hlishorse
borne him into the conflict against his ,wishes ?
Had he wielded his sabre deliberately, of in a
moment of excitement, when half demented by
an excessive fear ?  These were 'questions which
very few felt competent. to answer. Ben,4owan
was the most confident of any,' in the premises,
and was apparently fully resolved that Job
should prove a humbug in some way'or another.
Nor was this quite - all; he resolved, further-
more, to, flagellate him soundly, whenever, :a
favorable opportunity should offer. This deter-
mination was not a passing whim, but s, fixed
and deliberately formed purpose; for :he had
conceived the' extraordinary idea that his honor
required it ; but how it required it, would have
been, perhaps, a difficult matter for Ben himself
to explain. But Job Dawson kept on the even
tenonof his way without appearing in any man-
ner disturbed by what others thought or said of
him. If there was anything about him that
they could not understand at first, the same
mystery hung over him  now. So the Quaker
moved among them a continual wonder, and
a continual subject of remark and ridicule.
Mr. Henderson, whose name is already some-
what familiar to the reader, had accompanied
Captain Hawes to Marion's camp; and he was
often observed in conversation with, Dawson ;
the nature of'those conversations no one knew ;
but they seemed to be confidential in character,
so far as they could judge. When together in-
the presence of others, it was seldom that a word
passed between them, and they might have been,
supposed utter strangers to each other.
We must add, in this connection, that young
Adair, who had been released from his danger-

N


88                              MARION'S
6oUS position at Britton's Neck, had joined the
briAde:; and as' Dawson had been the most ac-
tive in setting him at liberty, the query natural-
lirose whether any previous acquaintance had
eridtd between the parties. If the affirmative
'of this was true, how long had such acquaint-
ance existed, and nder what circumstances had
it commented 2 'But these 'inquiries were as
ihanswerable as the others. Frank  Forstall,
'though well acquainted with the inhabitants in
the vicinity of Britton's 1eek, did not remem-
bei of ever hearing the name of Job Dawson.
Whether theie were any persons, in that par-
tiul&amp;i section, who knew him, the sequel will
petheas '6o*. For the present we must let
msttets tair their course, and:follow our prin-
eigal eharaders in the order that may seem most
natural.
The one engrossing idea that now occupied
and agitated'the mind ofFprstall, was the cap-
tivity of lfi'. Strickland. There were several
goad reasons why he wished to achieve his lib-
.ration.  He was an old and respected neigh-
bo, and he (Frank) loved his handsome daugh-I

A1

BRIGADE.

,ter. But we must not forget to state distinctly,
that our hero was not an especial favorite with
Mr.. Strickland ; and if the truth must be told
in plain terms, he was _ somewhat prejudiced
against him. Mr. Strickland's reasons for not
liking young Forstall are unknown to us, but
he doubtless had real or imaginary ones--most
probably the latter. It is very certain that we
poor human beings sometimes conceive preju-
dices and- antipathies, without being able to de-
fine distinctly the cause or causes-of the same ;
but we are not disposed to say that tlis was, or
was not the case, with Ruth's father.  Thevery
idea that Mr." Strickland diti not feel very
friendly towards him made our hero still more
anxious to serve him; for he very naturally
wished to prove that his (Strickland's) antipa
thy (if it really amounted to antipathy) was
entirely unfounded.
Forstall cogitated deeply on the si66bje  of
Strickland's captivity, and many were the plans
he formed to effect his release; 'and 'we may

safely add that many of his schemes were w
impracticable, and all of them full of dange

f-

CHAPTER VIII.
DIX AND KATE MARTIN.

hollr           HE course of events now takes us to Rocky
r.          LI=Creek. The news that Colonel Ferguson
was approaching with a large body of dragoons,
marking his footsteps with blood and fire, pro-
duced general consternation among the inhab-
itants (consisting mostly of females and men
too far advanced in years to bear arms) who re-
mained at home.
There was quite a number at Rocky Creek
favorable to the royal cause ;. and they resolved
to organize and choose a leader, as- their tory
brethren had done in adjoining towns, and dis-
tricts. The tidings of Ferguson's proximity
= served to quicken their zeal, and hasten their
movements.
A young man by the name of Dix was very
active in the contemplated organization. Hav-I
. ing provided himself with a list of those who
were friendly to the royal cause, he rode up and
down the country, inviting them to assemble at
a designated place in the vicinage of Rocky
Creek. The whigs who had not yet taken arms,
or had returned to arrange their domestic affairs,
were also sounded in regard to their constancy
to a cause, which appeared, to most people, en-

tirely lost and hopeless. Such were invited to
join them, and threatened with severe penalties
if they refused.
Cyrus Dix lived not far from Rev. William
Martin's, and knew well that he was a staunch
patriot. The former felt an earnest desire to
change the latter's mode of thinking, and his
reasons for this we will speedily unfold.
Dix was well acquainted with Kate Martin,
knew her worth, and had felt the power of her
dazzling beauty. He had ardently sought her
society for many months, 'and flattered- hhinse1f
that he had made a favorable impression.'
It will be seen then, that Dix would -att-
ally wish to secure Mr. Martin's esteem, which
he felt assured he could not do, while they di4er-
ed so widely in sentiment ; hence he improved
every opportunity to reason most earnestly, and
with all the power of insinuating arts, and elo-
quence that he could possibly bring into exer-
cise, on the subject of their differences.
Dix was at heart.a bad man, but he took the
best of care to disguise his true character, and
to appear to 1Martin's eyes like one who hon-
estly and conscientiously differed with, him in


40                   MARION'S BRIGADE.

opinion. While he seemed to sustain this as-
sumed position, the good father could not find
it in his heart to treat him otherwise than an
honorable and high-minded, though mistaken
young man. The day before the royalists of
that and adjoining districts were to assemble,
with a view to an armed and permanent organ-
ization, Dix walked over to Mr. Martin's, in
order to make a final effort to shake his patriot-
ism to its foundation.
Nor was this the sole object of his visit ;
after he had done all that he could in that'par-
tieuler direction, he had determined to make aI
f0ll declaration of his sentiments to the peer-
less Kate. We shall be obliged to give theI
reader the purport of the conversation that en-
sued between the pastor and Cyrus Dix.
" I have come to converse with you once more
on the subject of our honest differences ofopin-
ion. I would to heaven that you could see as
I do, in this matter," said Dix, .with much
emphasis.,
" I respect your friendly earnestness, young
man," replied the pastor; "but pardon me, l
when I say that I do thoroughly detest your
cause. I have not only wished that you might i
discover the errors into which you have unwit-v
tingly'fallen, but I have prayed that our com-
mon Father-would mercifully open your eyes, t
and quicken your understanding."           t
"I much regret your infatuation," returned
Din, earnestly ; "and perhaps I might say hal- h
lucination, instead of the milder term I have
employed. Your sacred profession  prevents t
you from fighting with the ordinary weapons of
human warfare. -.You are well-known among w
the royalists as-having incited the hitherto peace- 1
able inhabitants to arms, and they feel justly
indignant against you; who then will protector
yourself, your wife and fair daughter from' the a
vengeance of those, marauding parties who 'are n
sweeping like lightning through the country ?" d
"I have served the God of heaven many a
years, and I have never yet been forsaken," sI
replied Martin, devoutly.-                r
" Once .more I appeal to you, sir ; will you m
not it least, in appearance, favor the royal th

cause ? Your own safety and that of your fam-
ily require this much of you."
" Go, young man !" exclaimed Martin, stern-
ly. 1" You forget the respect which is due one
so much your senior. I never was a hypocrite ;
and the God of'battles being my helper, I never
will be. It is useless to prolong this conver-
sation. To persist in   such language would
soon rob you of the respect, whichgIuave hith-
erto entertained for you. Go, and let this sub-
ject never be renewed between us, unless you
are led to see the fatal error into which you
have been led."
" I am sorry for this," resumed Dix, art-
fully affecting some emotion.  "I have -esteem-
ed you highly, and earnestly wish to see you
shielded from the evil which is surely deter-
mined against you."
" Blessed are they who suffer for righteous-
ress' sake," responded Mr. Martin, fervently.
Dix despaired (as he well might) of shaking
the constancy of such a man as the worthy
pastor; he accordingly sought Kate, to learn
how matters 'stood in that direction. As it hap-
pened, a very favorable opportunity presented
itself, and he entered into the subject of his call
without circumlocution..
"I have been conversing with your father
his morning, in regard to his unfortunate poli-
ical sentiments," said Dix.
" Have you succeeded in convincing him of
is heresy ?" asked Kate, calmly.
"I am sorry to say that I have not," was
he reply.
"Will you be kind enough to inform     ine
why you regret the circumstance-?" added Miss
Martin.
"For several reasons, my fair neighbor,"
ejoined Dix, blandly.-  First; because such
worthy man should be so blinded in his judg-
nent; second--because such sentiments en-
anger his personal safety; third--on your own
count ; for it naturally follows, if your father
offers for the active part he has taken in this
rebellion, you also will suffer by his -punish-
ent. 1 These are among the numerous reasons
at make me regret Mr. Martin's obstinacy."

While he was speaking, Kate was quietly
studying his character, and arriving at a veryI
accurate conclusion in regard to the object of
his apparently disinterested efforts.
"Perhaps, Mr. Dix," she said, with much
seeming simplicity of manner, "it pis in your
power to aid us in this unhappy diletma into
which we have fallen."
"You speak to the point, my dear Kate,"
added the loyalist, in tones still more confiden-
tial and patronizing. "'This conversation, as I
shall show, is very opportune, as far as your
father's safety is concerned  Rocky. Creek, at
the present time, is left entirely to the mercy of
the royalists."
"But are they not too noble to make war
upon defeheeless females, and old men ?" in-
quired TKate, in the same confiding, and appa-
rently artless manner.
"Our troops," added Dix, coloring slightly,
"cannot always be restrained on account of the
cruelties practised by the whigs. It is my
solemn conviction that the first party of British
dragoons that sweeps through the settlement,
will- make a terrible example of William Mar-
tin."
"Unless," added Kate, "you should possess
sufficient influence to stay their sanguinary pro-
ceedings !"
"Just so, Miss Martin. I am pleased be-.
yond expression that ,you have the penetration
and forethought to see through this somewhat
obscure and very painful subject. I trust, dear
young lady, that I have ever been a friend to
you and the family ' returned Dix, sentimen-
tally.
"And I embrace this occasion'to express my
thanks," said Miss Martin.
"I think I am not mistaken in you," re-
sumed the royalist, in a more tender and con-
fiding tone, encouraged greatly by the kindness
of the maiden. " I feel assured that we under-
stand each other."
"Yes," added Kate, averting her eyes,
timidly.
" There are moments when soul speaks to
soul, and all the heart's precious secrets are sud-
denly and intuitively revealed."

Kate looked at the floor, and made no as-
swer.
"Your condescension makes me extremely
happy. Your heightened color assures me that
I need not be more explicit on this particular
theme. I will lay to my soul the flattering
unction, that I have awakened a gentle interest
in your bosom."
Cyrus Dix took Kate's hand, which she gently
withdrew.
" I thought, by your manner, that you were
about to communicate something of importance,"
said Kate, evasively, and with the least possible
shadow of a smile, which being observed by
Dix, gratified him very much.
"I was about to confide to your safe keeping
a secret, which will transpire sooner or later.
I do this as a proof of that strong yet tender
friendship which I have cherished for you for
many months. For the last few days I have not
been idle. True to the great cause which I
have espoused, I have been constantly in the
saddle, warning all the royalists in this and the
adjoining settlements, to meet at an old field
near the cross roads. I found them wide awake
for the enterprise, and to-morrow they will be-
gin to assemble."
"Indeed 1" exclaimed Miss .Martin, with
considerable emphasis.
" It is true," added the tory ; "and I have
been promised a captain's commission. If you
really feel that friendship for me that your
glowing cheek and timid manner *ould seem to
indicate, I trust you will keep this little piece
of gossip a profound secret, until we make our-
selves known and feared by our deeds."
" Why should you doubt my discretion r'
said Kate.
"I do not, Miss Martin; but it is always
well to be guarded about matters of this kind.
One of our first movements, after getting fairly
organized, will be to hunt up General Marion
and his ragamuffin crew, and rid the country of
such vagabonds."
" Think you can accomplish that matter easi-
ly, Captain Dix?" asked Kate, naively.
"Without doubt we can," was the confident
rejoinder.

MARION'S BRIGADE.              41


MARION'S BRIGADE.-                   43

"Answer me one more question, sir, and I
sure that ,you do not deceive a simple-niinde
girl," resumed Kate, earnestly. " Are yo
quite certain that you are right ?"
Cyrus Dix seemed startled at this hom
question) and looked steadily at Miss Martin
There was evidently some doubt in his mini
in regard to the manner in which he, should
shape his answer.
"It is perfectly evident," he said, hesitating
ly, "that I am of the safest side of the quest
tion, and the safest side is always the right
side! Do you comprehend, Miss Martin ?"
"I think I do," returned Kate.
"Policy, my fair friend, policy is everything
in this world."
" Doubtless.  Do you    suppose you car
gather much of a company, Captain Dix ?"
" About sixty resolute fellows as ever dtewa
sword ; all mounted, too."
"It will be in your power to throw a strong
p-otection around my father," said Kate.
If his fair daughter proves kind and con-
siderate, he shall suffer no harm in person or
property," was the reply.
" And if she should not prove 'kind and
considerate,' what then ?" asked the maiden.
"I will not be answerable for his safety a
single day ; no, not for a single hour !" exclaim-
ed Dix, striking the table emphatically.
" 0 dear, don't look so stern, Mr. Dix !"
cried Kate.
"Imadem last remark, gentle neighbor, that
you might know precisely how the case stands.
I wish you to look at the subject in a plain,
reasonable, and, matter of factway, and act ac-
cordingly. You must endeavor to influence
your father."
"AMust I?" added Kate.
"I have said it, my dear, and pardon me if
I insist upon compliance."
" Certainly, captain ; you're so much deeper
than I am, and know so much more about
these things !"
" You are the most sensible and reasonable
of girls) and I shall always adore you.  You do
tot think me positively hateful, do you'?" add-
ed Dix, in a taxing voice.

be  "I will express my sentiments more freely at
d our next interview, perhaps," was the playful
u rejoinder.
"You are on the non-committal system, I
ie perceive."
.   Farther conversation of this nature was pre-
d vented by the entrance of Mr. Martin.
d Dix arose to go, and Kate attended him to
the door. He paused on the threshold and
;- whispered in her ear :             ' -:
-   " All, so far as your quiet and safety are con-
t earned, depends upon your'good sense and dis-
cretion'/  Should you prove capricious and
wayward, as maidens sometimes do', I have a
power which you will unwillingly compel me to
exercise /"
Dix departed, and left'Kate -mistress of his
secret, and greatly his superior in shrewdness.
a She had experienced considerable difficulty in
controlling her virtuous indignation during the
interview ; but feeling that much good might
result from the practice of some self-control, and
a little dissimulation, she had passed through
the scope triumphantly. Her noble., and in-
genuousmind, at first, revolted against the idea
of deception in any case whatever ; but as she
looked into  Dix's character, and perceived
what he was trying to accomplish, she conquer-
ed her aversion, gained a still deeper insight
into his nature, and overcame him in the skil-
ful playing of that game at which he imagined
himself an adept.
The unutterable contempt, the ineffable re-
pugnance which she felt in her pure soul, when
he departed, must be left solely to the imagine,,
tion.
Her father soon after remarked in her hear-
ing,a "that it was greatly to be regretted that a
young man, who appeared so honorable, and
honest in intention, should embrace so bad a
cause."
"Do you refer to Mr. Dix, father ?" asked
Kate.
Mr. Martin replied in the affirmative.
"Then I am sorry to be forced to say, tl'at'
you are most egregiously mistaken in his char-
acter. -'A more unprincipled person it has never-

been my fortune to be acquainted with," replied
Kate.
"Your words greatly astonish me !" exclaim-
ed the pastor.  "You should not condemn Mr.
Dix so severely on account of his political sen-
timents."
"You shall judge for yourself," answered
Kate ; and she rehearsed the conversation in
detail, which had transpired between herself
and the party referred to.
Mr. Martin was exceedingly surprised at the
unexpected relation, and felt that it was indeed
difficult to judge of character by the outward
seeming.
"Things have now assumed an aspect entire-
ly unexpected," he added.   "I am pained,
embarrassed, and indignant. We are placed in
a most unenviable position ; I have long known
that the jealous eyes of our enemies are fixed
upon me ; and that I am not secure from per-
sonal harm for a day, or an hour ; but I had
trusted that the hand of villany would fall on
me alone, and not involve you, Kate. It seems
that I have been mistaken; and have more to'
fear rfor you than for myself."
"Do not think of nie, father, I fear nothing;,
on the contrary, it is for you alone that I trem-
ble."
"Let not my danger distress you; for it is
glorious to die for one's country. But there is.
that, you are aware, Kate, which is worse than
the change which we call death ; it is dishonor.
Whatever situation I may be placed in, let it
never influence your conduct, so far as Cyrus
Dix is concerned. Pursue a high and Truthful
course, never violating your best convictions of
right, or going counter to the' still, small voice
of that divinity which presides in every virtuous-
bosom. A young man like the party referred
to, can never be congenial to a nature- like
yours; hence no duty which you owe to me or
to God, can ever force you into any -nearer re-
lationship with him. I make these remarks in
order that you may not' be coerced to take a
step at which your whole soul revolts. The
time may come when these words will be recall-
ed, and strengthen you in the path of 4uty. I

would die daily the deathof the gibbet, rather
than have you connected with such a vilil ;as
Dix has proved himself to be."
"My own instincts would teach me to ,shn
him, if you had never expressed your sentiments
on the subject."
"In regard to this'torn gathering, at the old
field, near the cross-roads, it seems, to anc somne
thing ought to be done about it," resumned"fr
Martin.
"I have already considered the matter, and
decided what ought to be done," replied Kate.
"Let me hear your plan," said her father,
with a smile.
"I perceive that you are inclined to imagine
that a girl's judgment in such matters must
necessarily be worth but little," rejoined Kate.
" But I will disclose my scheme, nevertheless.
I propose to advise Marion's Brigade of the tory
gathering."
" But have you devised the means of its ac-
complishment ?" asked the father.
"Certainly; I intend to carry the intelligence
to Marion myself."
" You, Kate !"
"My own important self!" rejoined 1 ate,
pleasantly.
"It is impracticable."
"Not so, father.
" I cannot permit it."
"I think you will."
"I will go myself."
"That is out of the puesion; you wonld
never reach the Santee, if you should attend pt
it. You would be stopped by the, stores ; con-
sequently much would be lost 'and niothi-g
gained."
"Very true ; I should naturally be ,aspect-
ed. There is more sense in your littlehed
than I had given you credit for."
"Thank you, father'; we are getting on very
well. You know you have got an excellent
young horse in the stable ?"
"Yes, Kate."
"You know that I am an expert Mrse-
woman ?"
"I know there isn't a colt in the neighbor-

t

F
)Y

MARION'S BRIUADH*'


*

44                              MARION'S BRIGADE-
hood, and hasn't been for the last year, that much, and am so noted for that kind of exercise.
youIwould fear to mount.. You have-caused me Before morning, I could reach General Marion's
much uneasiness by your waywardness and dar- capp; and to-morrow night the sabres of the
ing in- that respect. You are a very good girl, brigade would wave in'triumph over the place
Kate, but rather wild, in some respects."   of story rendezvous."
My skill, acquired by such practices, may  "Go, my darling Kate, and heaven will pro-
now be of some use to ,me, you perceive. Vic- tect you !" exclaimed the pastor, fervently-
tot, you know, is fleet and strong, and yet very  "With heaven's blessing, and yours, I can-
-docil; 'Icad, manage him when he is very res- not fail," said the daughter, enthusiastically.
e under other hands. When it is fairly night,  " I will see that Victor is generously fed and
I willmount him and ride quickly from the set- groomed for the occasion," added her father,
tlement. If I am observed, no one will think and immediately left the house to put his promise
strange of the circumstance, because I ride so into effect.
CHAPTER IX.
KATE ' ADvEN'UREs ON THE wAY TO MARION's CAMP.
L GE.powerful horse, whose black maiden sprang lightly to the saddle, and grasp.-
A  kin shone like polished glass, stood at Mr. ing the flowing reins, felt that she was mistress
M   a s door. Kate appeared, dressed in a of the motions of the noble beast.
dark and becoming riding habit.  She approach-  She turned his head in the right direction,
ed the steed, who seemed impatient to be in and while Mr. and Mrs. Martin invoked bless-
otion and fearlessly caressed his arching neck ings upon her and her enterprise, rode away at
l   han easy pace.                     When quite clear of the settle-
Be quiet, Victor, be quiet !" said Kate.'  meant, she no longer checked the fiery im patnce
I feel disposed to regret that I consented of the steed, but suffered him to go forward at
to tis step," sid Mr. Martin, thoughtfully. greater speed, though still reserving his powers
M Kae is brave and discreet," remarked Mrs. until the occasion should seem to require their
Marti'.                                     full display.   -
shall do very well,", rejoined the daugh- The moon had not yet risen;'it was quite
tir. "See, Victor is anxious to be on the dark, and there were many lonely places to. pass.
Tories were very active, and very plenty, and
"You needn't spare him, he is in excellent British dragoons scoured the country inevery
onition, and with you for his burden, will direction; but Kate was not daunted bysny of
dash along with .thespeed of a carrier pigeon. these considerations.  She knew she was
When once under the banners of Marion's Brig- r'gt, and felt ready and willing to' sufr as
ads, you will be safe," added the pastor. some of her countrywomen had suffered, in the
"As safe as if at home, father," replied cause of liberty.
Kato.                                         She had gone about three miles, wlgen she
S eakmg soothingly to Victor, the daring approached a wood of considerable extent. As

S
tS'
H
6a
.ti
i
Tom,,::
Ns'i
.

she entered it, and the dark shadows fell more
darkly across her path, she could not help re-
flecting upon the extreme loneliness of her sit-
uation. But she quickly shook off the momen-
tary gloom, spoke cheerfully to Victor, and al-
lowed him to go on a little faster. Soon after
she heard the clattering of horses' feet, which
grew more distinct, and appeared to be approach-
ing from the opposite, direction.  Although
feeling somewhat anxious for the result, Kate
resolutely pursued her way. It proved to be a
single horseman, and he instantly stopped when
near enough to Kate to distinguish the outlines
of her figure.
"Is it you, Miss Martin ?" said a voice.
"You have spoken my name," replied Kat2.
"I am Joe Sawyer," added the man. .
"O, yes, I remember," she answered.
"You saved my life, Miss'Martin; I shall
never forget it. I've lingered about the neigh-
borhood - for several days, in hopes to get a
glimpse of your sweet face. I think of you all
the time, and sometimes I feel that it wouldn't
be very wrong to get down on my knees and
pray to you ; because, you see, I owe you such
a- debt of gratitude, and can't never pay it. I
know you'll despise me for acting as I have,
but I can't help it now, and it's no use to cry
about the past."
"You'll be a fie lad yet, I dare say," said
Kate, kindly ; " and, you will doubtless wipe
out *  errors of-the past 'by the doings of the'
future that is now before you."',4
"4If everybody had been like you, Miss Kate,
I shouldn't have been what I am; but they
aint, and never will be. The bloodhounds of
Captain Nick would soon have torn me in
pieces, if you hadn't shown your blessed face
just as you did. Yes, they would have killed
me, as if my life had been worth no more- than'
that of a miserable cur."   -
"An offence like yours, I believe, is always,
punished with death," remarked Kate.
- "I know it is;. but we'll let that pass.
Henceforth I care nothing about parties ; I will
serve yuonlyI; you shall be my queen, and i
,will be your subject. I swear to you a life-long

MARION'S BRIGADE.                  45

allegiance. I will'be to you the most abject of
slaves. There is no service so hard, so danger-
ous, or so humiliating, but that I will not at- e
tempt, it in obedience to your commands."
"Such language surprises me," exclaimed-
Kate.
" That's because you didn't expect gratitude
from a man who could be base enoagh to be-
tray his neighbors.' . You can say it boldly in
plain words, if you want to, and I wont think
hard of you."
"I am glad that you have redeeming quali-
ties, Joe ; but I cannot stop to talk with you
now. I have far to ride."
"I shan't leave you, Kate Martin. I'll fol-
low you anywhere. that you please to go."
"To Marion's camp, Joe ?"        .
"Yes, to -" and Sawyer named a locality
supposed to be warmer than the tropics, by
many degrees. f' You can't shake me off; go
where you will, I'll tramp after you, see if I
wont," added Joe, decidedly.
"But what possible motive can you have for
persisting in such a strange course'?"
" To look after you, if you should be in dan-
ger, and die for you like a dog that perishes for
his master," said Sawyer.
'' But you were afraid of death the other day,
Joe ?"
" I was engaged in a bad cause, then, Miss
Martin ; and a bad cause makes anybody a
miserable coward. Yes, I will'go anywhere
with you !"
"I'm obliged to you, I'm sure."
"Not at all, and I don't much care whether
you are obliged to me or not, so long as I can
be the means of doing you any good. I can
guess pretty well where you're going now, and
what for ; it's probably about the tory meetin',
or something of that kind. I know more than
you think I do about certain persons, and what
certain persons intend to do. I know Cyrus
Dix, and r know he wont be of 'any benefit to
you, or your friends. So ride along, and I will
keep near you."
"Indeed, Joe, I don't know as I can allow-
you to go with'me."

IP


46                             MARION'S BRIGADE.
"You'an't help yourself; I'm  bound- to   Kate's heart beat a little faster than usual,
stick to you like shoemaker's wax, come what but she kept on as if she felt there was no rea-
will."                                     son why -she should act differently.
"I don't think your horse can keep up."    "Cover your pretty face with your veil,"
Then I'll lick him to death !" exclaimed added Joe.
Joe, and then added ; " but there's nothing that She attempted to follow his well-meant direc-
wears hoofs that can keep out of his way, when tion, but the veil unfortunately had become en-
in the course of human events speed becomes tangled about the hat, and she struggled with
necessary ; so go ahead, Queen Kate."     the vexatious thing in vain.
You are resolved to follow, I see ?"     "Stop !" exclaimed Cunningham, who, upon
You may believe it's a fact.  Give that discovering that a young female, attended by a
horse the rein; what a noble spirited animal he countryman, was approaching, had remained in
is ! You sit upon him as firmly as a trooper. the middle of the road, with the pistol still in
Here we go, my queen and I. Now for Mari- hand.
on's camp ; and if they string me tp, all I ask  " Who are you, and where are you going ?"
is, just one tear from them heavenly eyes of he asked, in an authoritative voice.
yours.-                                      " This young lady," replied Joe, quickly,
"You shall have two, Joe-two as real tears "is oi her way to Camden."q         -l
as ever a queen shed over a devoted subject;" - "What for?  Don't you know, my clod-
responded Kate, gaily,                     hopper, that Camden is in possession of Lord
Miss Martin did not much regret that she Cornwallis ?"                 .
-   was to have company during the long and dan-  "If it wasn't, this lady wouldn't be going
gerous ride that was before her. In some res- there, I reckon,", answered Joe-.
pects Joe might prove detrimental to the sue-  " 0, she's a royalist, then !", returned Can-
cess of her enterprise ; but in others, he might ningham, gazing rather earnestly at Kate.,
prove of essential service. She ha4 no reason  " Perhaps you're one of the whig fellows,"
to distrust the sincerity of his professions, for added Sawyer, artfully; "but I hope you wont
he appeared too deeply in earnest to be practis- interfere, seeing she's nothing but a female."
ing dissimulation. So Kate went forward with  " Certainly not ; but I have a little curiosity
a brave and hopeful heart, while Joe clattered to see what she looks like. Turn your face in
along by her side, speaking only when he was this direction, young woman*,". said Cunning.
addressed. A little before midnight, the moon ham, condescendingly.
arose, 'and the maiden hailed the event with  Kate had averted her face, and the c nel
gladness.                                 had not yet obtained a full view of her features,
As they were proceeding in the manner de- although he had been admiring her figure from-
scribed, Kate perceived in the road, a few yards the first.
before her, the figure of a man. He was on foot,  "Excuse me," said Kate.  " I have but an'
and walked along, slowly,. as if engaged in indifferent face."
thought. A military cloak was thrown over his,  " Swords and pistols ! what a silvery voice,"
shoulders, which made Kate think that he was exclaimed the gallant colonel.    J
an.officer belonging, probably, to the British  " Come, no sass, cap'en !" cried Joe, warn-
army, or heading some of the story bands that ingly, riding nearer to Kate.
infested the country.-          *            "Be a little careful, my good fellow," retort-
The man stopped when he heard the sound of ed Cunningham.
horses' feet, and drew a pistol from beneath his " Look at my face, if you will, but do not
cloak,                                     detain me."
"It is Colonel Cunningham," whispered - While Miss Martin was speaking, sheturned    ,

MARION'S BRIGADE.                47

her face towards the tory leader, and the bright
moon shining upon it, rendered its fair features
perfectly visible.
"What loveliness !" exclaimed, the colonel,
involuntarily, and at the same time laid his hand
on the bridle rein of Victor.
"Hands off, cap'en; don't handle the goods !"
said Joe.
"Back, fellow !" thundered Cunningham,
in a passion.
"I shall protect her with my life," added
Joe.,
"Be quiet, or by - I shall fire !" ex-
claimed the colonel, levelling his pistol at Saw--
yer's breast.
"I perceive you are an officer," said Kate,
firmly; "and I trust you are a gallant gentle-
man. Let us pass on without farther words."
" If I had not seen that exquisite face, pret-
ty maiden, you might have gone on as fast and
as far as you pleased ; but the sight'of so much
beauty has made me a little giddy."
Joe spurred his horse, and he reared and
pressed hard against the colonel, which greatly
enraged him, and he discharged his pistol at
Kate's defender. The ball took effect upon his
right side, and inflicting a slight flesh wound,
glanced off wit bout doing any serious injury.
Joe instantly drerva heavy horse pistol from the
breast-pocket of his coat, and bending forward
gave Cunningham a stunning blow upon the
head which knocked him senseless. y
Spur on, Queen Kate 1" cried Joe.
Victor feeling himself at liberty once more,
sprang over 'the body of the colonel, and swept
onward at 'his best speed.
" It's no time to let the grass grow under our
feet ; Cunninghian will be up and after us with
his fellows," added Sawyer., " He's a man
that don't like to he disappointed when he has
set his mind on having his own way."
"I think we -hall do -very well now. Some
considerable timte must necessarily elapse before
he can get his ien in the saddle," answered
Kate.
"Anger wih ,numke him work fast," returned
Joe. ' Be. i   the idea of your comely face

will be running in his head, and they say he is
not over and above particular about his con-
science."
"Victor is fleet of foot, Joe, and his spirit is
by no means, sobered down by his efforts," re-
plied Miss Martin, with a display of calmness
which Joe had not expected.
They had galloped forward for ten or fifteen
minutes, when Joe stopped and said he believed
they had taken the wrong road. He examined
the locality as well as' he cold, and was still
in doubt in regard to the matter. This circum-
stance perplexed Kate greatly, for she felt that
every moment was precious.
" Decide quickly !" she exclaimed, "for this
delay makes me exceedingly nervous."
"I'll obey you, Queen Kate, as soon as pos-
sible. It strikes me that it would be better to
stay where we are, than to go in the wrong
direction."
Joe now dismounted, and requesting Kate to
hold his horse, surveyed the locality, ,more
minutely. , In a short time he returned and in-
formed her that they had left the main and
direct road, but that there could be but little
doubt that the one they were now in would
lead them into it again. They proceeded with
less speed and some uncertainty, and the latter
feeling became so strong in the minds of both,
that they were induced to halt for the second
time. While Joe sat irresolute about going
forward, an ominous sound reached his ears ;
and not his only, but Kate's.
"The tramp of many horses!" exclaimed the,
latter, in a suppressed tone of voice.
" Cunningham's' cut-throats," said Sawyer.
Curse his haste !"
"What is to be done ?" asked Kate, prompt-
ly.  " Think fast, Joe."
"Remain where we are, and trust to luck.
Perhaps they'll take the other road, and in that
ctse we shall stand a pretty fair chance of get-
ting clear of them."
"And if we should not elude them, what
then?" asked Kate, earnestly.
" The case is very plain, so far as I'm con-
cerned ; I shall be shot down on the spot, be-

_       H
, ?
S        +
)
+      k

t
:
Es
:
+,.
L
e.
y w  .
,
.? ','
'
41 -'
t;,:''-


48                             MARION'S BRIGADE.
cause I struck, the villain, Cunningham; but  Sawyer caught Kate's horse by the bridle,
in regard to you, Queen Kate, it's not so cer- and hurried him from the road towards a small
tam. You wont fare much better, I reckon. growth of wood. They had scarcely made'this
Your face played the deuce with the colonel." change, when some of the horsemen came in
Kate for the first time felt something analo- sight, urging on their steeds by a free applica-
gous to fear. She heard the clatter of iron hoofs, tion of the spur.
and felt, but too keenly, that both her enter-  Keep your horse quiet-hold him firmly-.
prise and person were In peril. But she was the least noise will betray us I" whispered Saw-
far too unselfish tQ forget poor Joe Sawyer; his yer.  " There goes Curiningham," he added.
genuine gratitude, and rough kindness, had al-  Kate shuddered perceptibly.
ready had the effect to make her regard him  "May he fall and break his neck !" contin-
with feelings of friendship.               ued Joe, setting his teeth firmly together.
"I'm thinking of you, Joe," said Kate,     "Dash on, men !" cried Cunningham. " Ten
gently.                                    pounds to the man who takes her unharmed ;
"Bless you, Miss Martin, don't trouble your- and ten more to him who shoots the rascal that
self to think of me. I couldn't die in a better is with her."
cause. And I've a strange notion that you may  " Ay, ay, colonel !" shouted the men, and
be in more danger than I am, after all," re- pressed on with redoubled zeal. In a few mo-
plied Joe, seriously.                      ments they had passed on, and Kate and Saw-
Sawyer, paused an instant, and then resumed. yer remained undiscovered.
"I've got some pretty little instruments about " We'll give them the mitten thistime
me, whi~h, perhaps, you'd better take, Queen Queen Kate !" exclaimed Joe, joyfully. "We'll.
Kate. Here they are. You perceive they are retraceour steps a little and take another .rad,
a brace of small and beautifully finished pock- less direct, to Marion's camp. Cunningham-
et pistols; and they are so neat and diminutive will waste horse flesh in vain ; and woe tA6the
withal, they seem to be made on purpose fort a whigs that fall into his hands before he gets over
lady. It's very evident to me, that there's his disappointment."
considerable real spirit and courage about you, . Without delay, Joe led the way in the direc-
notwithstandin' your sex; and if worst should tion indicated, followed closely by his fair com-
come to worst, what could hinder you from  panion. In a few minutes they reached the spot
using one of them cunning little fellows ?" where the other road, diverged to the right of
"I thank you very much !" exclaimed Kate, those taken by Cunningham and his dragons,
taking the pistols eagerly.  "Don't fear, I and galloped away in better spirits, over a
know how to use them as well as you do. I'm smoother portion of country.
not such a'poor, helpless creature as those of "Now you can test the speed of that horse,"
my sex are generally supposed to be."      said Sawyer.
"Hear the blackguards i  they shake the    " Hark, Joe.! I can hear the clatter of hoofs
ground with their hard riding."            again."
" Have they taken the other road, do you   "Some of them9,are coming back to try this
think ?" inquired Kate, in a whisper. '    road, perhaps. They seem  to be in- earnest.'
" I believe they have. How lucky ! Heat That's it-put him to his best ; now you doit in
them thunder along."                       superb style-go it, my queen."
"What if they should divide, and some of  In ten minutes the tramp of Cunningham's
them come this way ?" added Kate, hurriedly. dragoons had ceased to reach the ears of Kate
"They have, by heavens 1" exclaimed Joe. Martin; and Joe Sawyer was in eestacies on
" This way, Kate-this way, quickly-quickly, account of her splendid riding, and the remark-
behind yonder clump of trees."             able progress they were making.

,r
y
.3

" Jones, what's your horse, tryin' to do?"
asked Captain Hawes.
" He's a colt, cap'en, as hasn't been weaned
long," replied Jones, grasping the animal's
mane to keep himself steady.
" Well, stick to him for the sake of your
country, and humanity generally," added Cap-
'tain Nick, encouragingly. Unfortunately, how-
ever, for " humanity," at that crisis the colt
made an airy and highly original evolution, not
laid down in any military work then extant, and
poor Jones was east like an untimely fig.
" Up, and at him agin," said Hawes. " Ie'll
be a Bucephalus as soon as you're an Alex-
ander. Rear rank-close up,     Front rank,
ditto; leave about twelve inches space between
you. Music by the band. Company-forward-
march!'
While these exercises were transpiring, Ben
Rowan had walked to the spot where Job Daw-
son was sitting quietly beneath a tree. Wish-
ing to see what' the result of this movement
might be, Frank Forstall and Henderson slow-
ly followed him.
"Job Dawson," said Rowan, deliberately

ChAPTER X.
MARY ADAIR.  Lwis HAwTHORNE.     THE SURPRISE.

1JE day was just breaking, and the "tar-
nal critters " were " straightened up."
"Don't they make a heavenly appearance?"
said Captain Nick, to Forstall.
"They look very well indeed," replied the
latter.
"Hold up-eyes right !" said Hawes.
"All'mounted at last," remarked Hender-
son.
:AYes, and it does my eyes good to look at
'em.  "Lieutenant Anderson, odd and even
'em; and let the even numbers fall back six
paces to the rear. John Smith, you look as if
you was settin' on a stone wall; let down your
stirrups, straighten yerself-and try to look un-
speakable."
"It's no use to put it off," said Ben Rowan
to Frank.  " I'm goin' to pulverize him."
" It wouldn't be right, Ben," returned
Frank.
"But it's my duty, sir ; and my tender con-
'science wont let me procrastinate no longer,"
rejoined Rowan. " He's settin' out yonder un-
8er a tree; and there'll be a goo4 chance to
pitch into him. If you want to see iniquity re-
warded; just keep your eye on me.

4.


50 ,1R ON'S BRIGADE.
pulling off his coat, "I have come to do a duty  Frank and Henderson lifted up Ben Rowan ;
which I owe to my country."               he, opened his eyes, and in a few seconds ap-
" What is it, good Benjamin ?" asked Daw- feared perfectly conscious of what had taken
son.                                      place.
"Don't 'good Benjamin' me ! I've told    "I have come to see ' iniquity rewarded,'
you about it often enough," retorted Ben, sul and have 'kept my eye on you,' " remarked
lenly.                                    Forstall, ironically.
" What is thy business, friend ?" inquired  "Hast thou" pulverized me- enough, .good
Job, patiently, the second time.          Benjamin ?" asked Dawson, with great sim-
" It's my painful duty to pulverize you," an- plicity..
swered Rowan.  "So take off that ridiculous  Rowan sprang quickly to his feet and walked
weapon, and.try to defend yourself like a man." away without any reply. Forstall and Hen-
" Dost thou intend me personal violence, derson returned to the parade ground ; and
good Benjamin ?" resumed Job, calmly.     presently the entire brigade, now numbering
"I intend to give you an all-fired drubbing !" over one hundred, turned out to drill. All fell
exclaimed Rowan.                          into the ranks, and Job and Ben were'seenside

"Nay, friend Benjamin, do not such a wick-
edness in the tents of Israel."
"The deuce take the. ' tents of Israel' !"
cried Rowan, wrathfully, and mimicking Daw-
son.
"What evil hast thou found in me ?" added
Job.
"You're a humbug, generally," responded
Rowan, " Look out'! I'm going to hit you in
the left eye."
"ICannot this thing be put off till a more con-
venient season ?" interrogated Dawson.
"'Twould be sinful to put it off half a minute
tongei. So be careful of your lookers." And
Rowan made a pass at Job's face, which he
parried.
"Verily, if I must defend myself, I have no
power to gainsay thee ; but my soul abhorreth
contention, for I am a man of peace," he said,
quietly, turning aside Rowan's rapidly dealt
blows without any apparent exertion.
"I bear thee no malice, good Benjamin, yet
I will obey thee to the best of my humble
abilities."'
While Dawson was uttering these words, in
his usual mild manner, he raised his great fist
and gave Rowan a blow under the ear that
made him recoil several yards, and fall heavily
at Forstall's feet.
Verily, I am a peace-maker, and have no
pleasure in ,contention," added Job, seating
himself calmly upon the grass.

by side as usual; but the latter, it was observed,
had a swollen head and face.
Nick Hawes rode up to General Marion, and
remarked, for the second time; that the "In-
dependent Fire Eaters made a most heavenly
appearance, now they were straightened up on
horses ;" and the general smilingly ,replied,
"that they certainly did."
It was at this particular period that Kate
Martin and Joe Sawyer rode into camp, with
foaming and panting steeds.
"The divine Kate !" exclaimed Henderson,
involuntarily.'-
" There's that traitor feller," said 'Hawes.
"That's General Marion," said the ser eant
of the guard, who had conducted Kate on othe
field.
Kate turned towards the general, and the lat-
ter, brave as he was, appeared somewhat be-
wildered and confused by -her dazzling beauty.
He gallantly doffed his leathern cap, and begged
to have the pleasure of knowing how he could
serve so fair a mnaiden.
"Perhaps there are too many ears here," he
added, quickly.  "Be good enough to come
this way ; for I perceive your business may be
of importance."
With a glowing cheek, Kate complied, and
related in detail the object of her -visit, describ-
ing as well as she could the place of tory rei-
dezvous, and making such remarks, as her infor-

MARION'S

mation would justify, in regard to the numbers
of the royalists. Joe Sawyer did not leave
Kate's side for a moment, and seemed to con-
sider it a post of honor ; and we have no hesita-
tion in saying that the gallant Mr. Henderson
would have regarded it in the same light, He
envied Joe his situation; and as soon as she
had finished speaking with the general, he ad-
vanced to address her.
"Stand back, and you can see just as well,"
said Joe, evidently deeming his approaches an
intrusion.. Miss Martin smiled, and gracefully
acknowledged Henderson's salutation. The lat-
ter then formally presented her to the general.
"The brigade will have the honor of escort-
ing you'to Rocky Creek, Miss Martin," said
Marion. "As you are so fortunate as to know
Mr. Henderson, I will confide you to his care
until the brigade is in readiness to move forward.
I regret that you cannot find among us those
comforts which you must necessarily need after
so much exertion; We live as we can, and not
as we would.  Our enemies, should you. visit
them, could conduct you to a marquee, com-
fortable and even luxurious ; but the friends of
liberty are obliged to sleep on the ground, with
no other canopy than that of the arching heav-
ens. To my rough tent, Mr. Henderson will
now conduct you, and no one will intrude upon
you, while there."
"Such courtesy well befits a brave chieftain,
and a gallant gentleman, replied Kate.  "A
cause so just makes any place endurable, and the
post of danger honorable. I shall be as happy
in your rude tent as the proudest royalist-in his
luxurious marquee. Now, Mr. Henderson, I
gladly accept you as my cicerone to the tent."
"I can assure you that be is well content,"-
remarked the general, pleasantly. _
" I confess to the charge," rejoined Hender-
son, and touching his cap, turned from the gen-
eral and conducted Kate to the place designated;
while Joe Sawyer followed with a sullen brow,
jealous that another should occupy the place
which he had assumed, and which appeared his
as a matter of course.
Leaving the brigade to march towards Rocky

BRIGADE.                                51
Creek at their leisure, we will look after some
of our other characters.
We will begin by informing the kind reader,
that Mary Adair and Ruth Strickland were on
intimate terms. This being the case, that they
should visit each other, would be a natural re-
silt, and we shall, on the occasion referred to,
find. Miss Adair at Mr. Strickland's. ' The'
capture of Gainey and Cunningham, had given
the former great pleasure, inasmuch as that
event effected the liberation of her brother, and
she hoped freed her from farther impertinence
from the colonel. As a consequence, she ex-
perienced considerable uneasiness when she
heard of the escape of the latter. This feeling
of anxiety was considerably increased by certain
rumors, whichhad reached her ears, in regard to
various remarks, relating to herself, which he
had made in the presence of several persons.
Those who had overheard these observations,
had repeated them again to others, and so they
finally reached the ears of Miss Adair.
That Colonel Cunningham   was a bad man,
was something well known to all wh'o had heard
his odious name, in that portion of the country.
His cruelties had spread terror wherever the his-
tory of the same had been related. To be
sought after by such a hard and remorseless
miscreant, ~ gave the gentle Mary a feeling of
uneasiness which it would be quite impossible
to describe. The scene of'her first - meeting
with him had made an impression which could
never be effaced. His cruel, and unprovoked
order, to murder her brother, had filled her
with so much horror, that the very memory of
that event was deeply painful. The reader will
perceive, then, that the name of Cunningham
was coupled with all that was dreadful and re-
pugnant, in the mind of Miss Adair.
During the conversation that ensued.between
the* latter and Ruth Strickland, Cunningham
was more than once referred to.
" The news of his escape," said Miss Adair,
"fills me with a nameless terror, which I can
neither explain, nor account for."
"Common report assures me that he admired
your person not a little," replied Ruth ; " and


52                            .MARION'S
did not take any pains to conceal' his sentiments.
You have spoken of his escape, but I can tell
you of a more recent piece of news ; Major
Gainey is also at large. How he obtained his
freedom, I know not, and I confess that the
event is quite as unwelcome to me, as the es-
cape of Cunningham seems to be to you."
"From what I can learn of the man, the two
are well mated. Both are deaf to the voice of
humanity, as their deeds abundantly testify,"
rejoined Mary.  " That you should shrink from
him, is what I can well understand and appre-
ciate. I am aware that you stand in much the
same relation to the major, that it is reported I
-    do in regard to him whose name I can scarcely
pronounce without a shudder. If the two are
indeed at liberty, I believe that our apprehen-
sions and forebodings will not prove unfounded,
or premature."       -
The conversation was interrupted by the en-
trance of Mrs. Strickland, who told them, with
considerable agitation of manner, that one of the
neighbors had just informed her that Cunning-
ham was down below the Neck, with a party of
tories, and would probably be up. that way be-
fore long,
"Did you hear anything in relation to Major
Gainey ?" inquired Ruth.-
"1My informant said it was reported that he
had joined Colonel Cunningham ; and it was
through the agency of the colonel that his escape
was effected," replied Mrs. Strickland.
While the parties were conversing on this
subject, a colored servant appeared, and an-
nounced that a gentleman was without who de-
sired to speak a few words to Miss Adair. Mary
,blushed and hastened to the door, remarking as
she left the apartment, " that it was doubtless
her brother."S
A man of large frame stood near the steps.
He was holding by the bridle, a horse from
which he had evidently just dismounted. A
capacious military cloak concealed most of his
figure from view, and the lower portion of his
face. The hilt of a sabre was seen peeping
from the ample folds. The features which-were
visible, were highly prepossessing ; the eyes
were very blue and mild.

l
e
r
- f
}}t
t k - Y
J
f
K,
l
}
1
1
4
ji
a
F
q
kr_
t
4
TyT''
5th               f
L ;      Fey
s
4

BRIGADE.

He held the little hand, which Mary timidly
extended, a long time in his, and it seemed not
a very unwilling prisoner.
"How dared you venture here when Colonel
Cunningham is down below !" she exclaimed.
" The brigade is- moving towards Rocky
Creek, and I have left it for the purpose of
seeing you for a moment," replied the young
man.
"You have diverged considerably from your
way, and incurred considerable danger, I should,
think," returned Miss Adair.
" The danger I regard but little when I am
approaching the spot rendered dear to me by
the presence of Mary Adair. Danger I have
become familiar with, in all the forms in which
pitiless war presents it," said the other, earn-
estly.
" I know you are brave, Lewis," replied
Mary.
Lewis Hawthorne, as we shall call him, ac-,
knowledged the compliment by a bow and a
smile.,
" I have but little time," he added, "and
therefore must improve it to the best advantage.
Be kind enough to walk with me a few steps,
and we will converse as we move along."
" Is it true," asked Mary, "that IMgjor
Gainey has escaped ?"
" It is; but I think that the fact need not
disturb you or your fair friend, whom it is said
he admires. It seems to me that he will hardly
feel inclined to venture up this way again,
while Marion's Brigade is within a day's march
of the place," rejoined Harthorne.
" Perhaps not, Lewis; but Cunninghans has
not the fear of Marion before his eyes, it ap-
pears ; and we expect a visit from him hourly,"
said Mary.
" I hope he will not be so bold. It would
pain me 'exceedingly, and make me very anx-
ionus for your safety, if I thought he had any '
such intention."
" My sex have the reputation of being ,na-
turally timid ; but I trust that you will not es-
teem me weak and superstitious, when I frankly
confess that I feel a premonition of approaching,

MA1AIOWas BRiGADEt

evil,:and it hasreference to 'Colonel Cunning-
ham."
"I am not one to judge hastily. I shall be
the last ,one to think you weak or superstitious.
I know that your mind is well balanced, and
not 'easily misdirected. I am not ashamed to
say, that there is to me something prophetic in
the instincts or intuition'of a pure woman ; .pon
such, at times, the true spirit of prevision seems
to rest.,- I do not, by any means, scoff at the
soul's far reaching into the future ; for it
has wonderful powers," returned Hawthorne,
warmly..
"There is one subject upon which, I 'would
appak before'we part," said Mary.  "The;part
which you are enacting in the terrible.tragedy
of war, in extremely perilous. In the name'of
that friendship which your lips have avowed; I
ask you to be careful of that life which younow
so freely and so.often expose to the shafts of
death:. There is more than one heart that
would mourn your exit ,from earth."
" I am indeed gratified, my beloved Mary,
fr 'these friendly expressions of regard. I shall
en eavor to prove myself worthy of the friend-
shi which you are so condescending asto con-
fe upon me. I am aware that my position is
often perilous, and that my duties require much
tact, prudence and courage. But the thought
of Mary Adair imparts new strength and forti-
tude when the heart is ready to despair. Mine
is truly a difficult part to play ; but I have
played it thus far successfully. Few are in my
steret, and those that are, will not betray ine.
The cause in which I act is a gpod one, and I
am willing to peril life for the sake of my un-
happy and oppressed country. Should Colonel
Cunningham presume to visit this place, and
dare attempt to place himself upon .familiar
terms with you, or to offer you any personal in-
sult, endeavor, by some means, to give me in-
telligence of what is transpiring. If you can
send word to Marion's Brigade, an hundred
horsemen, brave and stalwort, will be ready to
gallopto your aid. And it would be well for
you to inform your friend, Miss- Strickland,.
whose name I have heard you mention, of this
4

request, in order that she may make it avail-
able, should anything unexpectedly happen to
prevent you from attending to - it yourself. I
will suggest, -furthermore, that whatever intel-
ligence .you may gain in regard to-the general
and particular movements of the tories that ybu
may consider of any importance, should be trans-
mitted to the brigade, if any possible means
should offer."
"Ipromise acquiescence," rejoined Mary. "I
shall do my best to comply with your wishes."
" Hark !" she added,- emphatically.
Hawthorne paused, and looked down the
river.
" I am betrayed!" he exclaimed-. "The
tory bloodhounds are on the scent.
Miss Adair had also turned-her eyes iiitIle
direction specified, and beheld a band of twenty
or thirty royalists approaching at a gallop.
"'Itis Cunningham himself at the head of
his dragoon !" cried Mary.    "Alas, ycur
temerity will cost you your'life 4"
Hawthorne sprang into the saddle and cast a
hurried glance around him, to discover the best
method of escape.
"Delay not a single'instant, as you love me I
See, they are coming at fearful speed. Fly,
Lewis, fly !" added Mary, excited beyond de-
scription.       A
"Farewell, Mary ! I go-I trust in Provi-
dence. Remember:what I have said."
"Surrender, you rebel !" cried a voice which
Mary recognized as the voice of Cunningham.
For a reply, Hawthorne touched his horse's
flanks with his spurs, and swept away up the
river road like the wind. As he bounded for-
ward, a dozen carbines were fired at hinm, and
the terrified and half-fainting Mary heard the
leaden messengers whistle over her head.
"Cut him down, men ! hew him to pieces-
no quarters to the rascal!" shouted Cunningham,
as he passed the maiden at a furious gallop.
He gave her a significant look as he dashed by,'
in which the cruelty of his nature was but too
evidently expressed.
It was some time after the tories had passed,
before Mary could gain courage to look after


54                  MARION'S BRIGADE.

Hawthrone, to see if he had fallen; when she
did so, she beheld him about the same distapee
from his pursuers, as at the beginning of the race.
His horse appeared a powerful one, and in good
condition, while she observed that those ridden
by the royalists were already somewhat blown,
With emotions which will not admit of de-
scription, she saw bright blades unsheathed and
brandished in the air; and heard continual re-
ports of carbines and pistols.  The road which
the parties had taken, was straight and level for
a considerable distance, and she had a fair view
of-the exciting scene. She kept her gaze fasten-
ed upon the pursued and the pursuers, as though
she had no power to turn it in any other diree-
tion. / She perceived that one of the horsemen,
being better mounted than his comrades, was
fast leaving them in the rear and gaining upon
Hawthorne ; while the latter appeared to be
making no additional efforts to increase his
speed.M
Mary Adair's heart beat fast, and every pulse

was full of racking suspense. ,With fearful an.
ticipations of the catastrophe, she beheld the tory
horseman nearing the object of her solicitude.
She saw him within the distance of a few yards--.
of halfa-dozen-of four-of three-of one, and
then he bent forward in his saddle, andlifted his
sword to give a fatal blow; but at that moment,
when Mary considered all hope lost, Hawthorne
turned suddenly upon his pursuer, and with a
single sweep of his ponderous sabre, cut him
down ; he fell, and his earthly warfare was at
an end. Hawthorne made no pause, but waving
his sabre triumphantly, shot forward at a much
greater speed.
"He's safe ! he's safe !" exclaimed Mary,
with outgushing emotions of joy.
"Who is safe-what has happened ?" asked
Uuth Strickland, who had approached, attract-
ed by the sound of firing, and the tumult ,of
pursuit. She repeated her question, but Mary
could not answer, she had become unconscious.

ARION'S Brigade was moving towards
Rocky Creek. To John Henderson it
was a most agreeable march, for he rode beside
Kate Martin, and her silvery voice sounded to
him like the sweetest music. To her peerless
beauty he had added the idea of her heroism,
which had been exemplified by her daring con-
duet on the night previous. The pastor's fair
and brave daughter could not rise much in the
estimation of Henderson; so far as his opinion
was concerned, she already stood on the pinna-
cle of female perfection. That he kept very
near her person, that he talked earnestly, and
hung with fond enthusiasm on her every word,
is no more than the considerate reader is pre-
pared to expect.
While the gallant Henderson is drinking in
the soft enchantment of Kato Martin's beauty,
we will see how Frank Forstall fares, and follow
his movements for a short time.'
The voice of Ben Rowan was less frequently
heard ; an unwonted taciturnity had fallen upon
him since the " pulverizing " scene had trans-
pired, and Frank was left more to his own re-
flections. The thought occurred to him, when

he saw Henderson so pleasantly engaged with
Kate Martin, that a friendly chat with Ruth
Strickland would be exceedingly agreeable.
This idea induced him to ask permission of Cap-
tain Logan for an hour's absence, in order that
theory and practice  might be  harmoniously
blended-a thing not always practicable. The
captain consented, though somewhat reluctantly,
because, he said, it was not safe for people to be
riding about the country alone ,when the tories
were so much on the alert, and so full of mist
chief. Considerations of this nature, however,
had but little influence' with Forstall, and we
are inclined to believe that in all genuine love.
matters, danger is. little thought of, or eared
for. Casting a parting glance at  enderson,
half envious, we fear; he fell out of the ranks o
the brigade, and taking across road, galloped
towards the residence of Ruth Strickland, his
heart expanding, meanwhile, with the antici-
pated joy of meeting her again.
He resolved, most firmly and seriously, to
make that declaration which had more than
once trerdbled upon his fearful tongue. Fill df
this daring, and to him momentous conception,

CHAPTER XI.
FORSTALL AND THE TRIES.

L

1


MARION'S BRIADE.MARION'S BRIGADE.

he urged his horse forward. To gain time,     When a few yards beyond Forstall's hidihg-
and lessen the period of expectation, he had place the whole party stopped and turned their
taken the shortest route, which was a narrow horses' heads in the contrary direction.
path, but little used, and which was obstructed' "I'll tell you the only thing that can end
by several fences, over which he was obliged this war," added the individual who had last
to leap his Rosinante; but we are happy to spoken.      ..
add -(for the- sake of our fair countrywomen) -"Well, out with it,"   said  a half-dozen
that no fence has yet been discovered, high voices.-
enough to shut out a young gentleman com-    "It's hangin' !" he replied, emphatically.
pletely conquered by the magic power of worth  "That's my opinion,"' responded several of
and beauty.                                 the band, fiercely.  "String 'em up ; nothin'
Forstall became entirely oblivious to-all party else will answer."
distinctions, and wholly forgetful of all personal  "It seems hard to hang 'em up without
hazard ; the image of-Ruth Strickland was the trial," observed another.
only distinct idea in his brain. He drew up    "Trial !" exclaimed the principal'-speaker.
(in his mind) a programme of what he intend- " Haven't we tried 'em all, and don't they
ed to do when he stood in the presence of his glory in bein' rebels ?"
enchantress ; he repeated over and over again Several voices assented to this without hesi-
the opening sentences of his all important de- tation.
claration. He reached the main road just as he.  "We're too tender-hearted, that's the trouble.
had repeated his rhapsody for the fourteenth We must make more examples.      We must
time. Alas, for the uncertainty of all subluna-- hang 'em, whether they have taken protection or
ry plans and intentions I  A tremendous clatter not. What's the difference between the- }fller
burst suddenly upon Forstall's -ears. He heard who has taken protection and then fights us,
the report of carbines, and 'loud shouting, and and the chap as Hasn't and fights us ? ' For my
the din increased and approached rapidly. ' '-  part, I can't see no odds."
-Frank was aroused from his reverie, and pru-  " It's all the 'same thing,"  said 'another.'
deitly reined his horse 'into a small copse by " Serve 'em all alike, and then justice will be
the wayside. In the course of five or six min- done. It appears to me-we ought to look round,;
utes a body of horsemen, about fifteen in numi- here in the bushes to see if the fellow hasn't,
ber, appeared ii view; their steeds gave abun- hid himself somewhere.  I thought I heard'a
dant indication of being %ver-ridden, and the noise but there on the right."         -
riders were laboring under some strong excite-  The person who had made this observation,
ment.                                       moved towards the spot where Forstall was eon--
Forstall was at a loss, at first, to know wheth- cealed. Discovery was inevitable and instant ;
er they were whigs or tories, but very soon their the tories shouted with exultation, 'as Frahk
angry exclamations enlightene1lhim ; they were put spurs to his horse and fled towards the Neck,
tories.                                     while a dozen carbines were levelled at his per.
"It's no use to spoil our.horses !" exclaimed son. His horse, being a very good one, 'soon
one.  "The fellowf'as got away fairly; we distanced his pursuers, and he was congratulat-
ean't overtakehim."                      . ing himself on the prospect -of escape, when
"I'm  deuced sorry, for I like to see the things suddenly assuAed an entirely new-spect.
rogues dance on nothing",replied another, em- He had proceeded about a mile and a half, when
bellishing his speech with sundry villanous oaths an abrupt turn in the road revealed to his .as--
which it would not be in goodtaste to repeat.  tonished eyes another body of dragoons drawn
'I shan't spile my hoss by racing after the up in theroad. -Just before them lay the body-
rebel feller no longer'P said  a third.  "Let of a'man,'and close by, was a riderless horse,;
him go."

I

56

4

nipping unconcernedly- the grass by the road
side.
Before Forstall had fairly taken in the scene
with his eyes, he was in the midst of the ,tories,
and many sabres were raised to cut him dowei..
"Hold, men !" cried Cunningham. "Not
so fast, niy lads.. We'll do something better
than that."
Forstall drew his sabre and defended himself
vigorously, inflicting several severe wounds, but
the odds against him were so overpowering, he
was soon disarmed and a prisoner.,
"It strikes me that I have seen your face
before, young man," said an ,ficer, scrutinizing
Frank 'pretty closely..
Forstall looked :towards the speaker and re-
eognized Major Gainey.
" Ithigk you 'have,, sir ; :I was at Britten's
Neck with General Marion," said Frank, sar-
",Such allusions as those will prove very  n-
fortunate for you, my fine fellow 1" retorted
the n9r, angrily.,
"When the vicissitudes of war placed you in
our hands; you were tell! treated and had noth.
ing to complain of, I believe," added Forstall.
"What is your name, young man ?" asked
'unningham .
" One that: has never been dishonored by
cruelty, cowardice, or meanness. I am called
Forstall," replied Frank.
Cunninghaon immediately said something to
Gainey in a low voice, and the latter scowled
fiercely at our hero.
"You see that body, don't you ?" he asked,
pointing to the corpse in the road.
'I do ; and. I should say that it was made
a body by an ugly sabre cut on the head," an-
swered Forstall.
"That man, young rebel, was a royalist, and
his life was worth half-a-dozen like yours," con-
tinued the major.
"I regret, then, that he hadn't died in a
better cause," rejoined Frank.
" The deuce you do, sir !" cried. the major,
angrily.
" Decidedly," returned Frank, firmly.

MARION'SBRIGA DE.

" That braye fellow was; killed by a' rebel,"
answered Gainey.
" Better than to die by the hand of the hang-
man," said Frank.
" Remember that ydu are speaking to one of
his majesty's officers," said Cunningham.
"One of Marion's ruffians did that," resum-
ed the major, pointing at the body again.
"I thought one of our sabres made that
wound," replied Forstall, regarding the ghastly
opening in the dead man's head, more parti-
cularly.
"And have you yet thought. what the con-
sequences would be to yourself,: sir ?" said
Gainey.
"I am a prisoner of war, and expect to be
treated as such."
"Just hear the rascal talk I" exclaimed Cuj-
ningham.   "You'll be. treated according to
your deserts," he added.
"How is that'?" asked Forstall.
'It means that you will be ,fteated to a
hanging, sir !" vociferated Gainey.
- " You dare not commit such an outrage upon
the usages of civilized nations !" exclaimed
Frank, boldly.
"ip with him ! up with him I" cried sev-
eral voices, impatiently.  .
"There's a fine tree 'for the purpose,"re-
marked the colonel, pointing to a thrifty' oak a
few yards beyond them.
At this juncture the rest of the party came
thundering down the river, and joined their
comrades.
"We knew you'd fetch him- up t" said one
wearing the uniform of an officer.
"We started him about a mile and a half
above here. But the other fellow gave as the
slip. Don't waste time ; do up the work in an
offhand manner," he added.
"Rebel, your time"Is short," remarked
Gainey.
"Do you intend to perpetrate another mur-
der?" asked Forstall, in a voice still calm.
"Prepare yourself, youngster," said Otin-
ningham.   "Think  about your' mother, and
your prayers."


T MARION'8 BRIGADE.

' Unfeeling man I dare you speak a mother's  "Inexorable as death!" said Gainey.
name in such a tone, and with such an expres- " Then I commend myself to the mercy of
sion ?" said Frank, indignantly.            God," answered Frank.
" Come forward, three or four of the most  "It is the best thing you can do under the
experienced of you, and truss him up,"' added eeumstanees," responded Cunningham, with a
te colonel, unmoved'                       sneer. -
"In the name of humanity, must I die in     "Allow me a few moments, at least, to de-
this manner'?" exclaimed Frank, earnestly. vote to prayer; for though I perish in a good
" Lead the horse to :the foot of the tree," cause, I am  not altogether prepared for this
continued Cunningham.                       great change," added the young man, solemnly.
This order was instantly obeyed. Forstall's  "Our companion was cut down without a
arms were tied behind him, and, the fearful single second to get ready for the last journey;
preparations went on rapidly.              but to show the humanity and generosity of the
"Off with his neck-cloth and, give him a royal soldiery, we will grant you five minutes,
harder one, and one tl3at will last him as long which is a very long time, all things considered."
as he lives ' added Cunningham.              'Barbarians could not well do less," said
"They can make his horse his executioner," Forstall. "Of one important truth I will as-
observed Gainey, coolly. "After all is ready, sure you before I: die; Marion's Brigade will
drive the beast from under him, and the work require my blood at your hands. The sabres
will be done- of my comrades will not rest in their sheaths
"Iprotest against'this unheard-of barbarity I" till they have avenged myg . When' they
cried Frank, energetically,                 break upon you like a thunderbfolt, in some uin-
thDo     our work deliberately and well," said expected moment, they will shout my name and
colonel, -                               their blows will fall with terrible fury 'pon
Only the most heinous crimes are punish- your heads.  Affect tofeorn this voice of"warn-
ed in this way," added Forstall.           ing, if it please you; but not- only will men re-
"Rebellion is the most detestable of crimes," quire my blood at your hands, but God will
re he major.                      demand the same in thunders of eternal justice."
"elMust I Indeed die the death of a felon ?" "Stop his mouth! choke him off!" thun-
ytexclaimed the young man, considerably moved dered Gainey.
by the terrible doom that was before him.     " To your prayers, or by my soul, up yoA go,
That stout  limb just over his head, and a without asecond's'grace !" added Cunnjngiam.
little to the left, will do the best ; throw it over Frank Forstall looked towards the sun now in
that when all is ready," continued Cunningham, mid-heaven, and silentl bade it adieu. The
who was irecting all the movements of the exe- thought that he should never again gaze upon
cutioners with a nonchalance which long prac- the quiet skies, gave him  a feeling of inexpres-
tice in deeds of wickedness had probably en- sible sadness. He had been an admirer of na-
gendered.                                  tare.  The green fields, the leafy -forests, the'
"If you will indeed murder me, in the name hills, the streams, the valleys of earth, were ob-
of all that is dear to'you, let me die in some jets which ha4 a stronghold upon his affections.
other manner--more like a soldier and a brave He wondered whether he should contemplate
man !" cried Frank, turning his eyes towards the same objects when his immortal part was
Gainey.                                    enfranchised from the body. It was a singular
It is not for you to choose the mode-die thought to obtrude itself at such a moment,
like a dog-like a rebel," was the stern and but it came spontaneously.  Other and More
unfeeling rejoinder.            ' -        mournful reflections crossed his mind-friends,
"Is this your final answer-are you inexor- parents, Rose, Ruth ; he should look upon
able ?  added Forstall.

MARION'S BRIGADE
them no more in time. With a sigh he closed the brink of eternity, and innumerable concep-
his eyes and prayed-prayed most fervently and tions were crowded into miserable, fleeting so
humbly.       *        *         *        condos. Frank's spirit seemed to shrink and
He felt -rough, unfriendly hands upon his contract itself, and quiver with dread expeeta-
neck, and shuddered. The thoughts flow like tion of something horrible.
waves of lightning when the soul trembles on

CHAPTER XII.
THE RESCUE.

T HE brigade moved steadily forward.
Henderson was still entranced with the
silvery tones of Kate Martin, and Joe 'Sawyer
looked at him.wijh jealous-eyes.
"Where is Mr. Forstall ?" asked General
,Marion, addressing Captain Logan.
" He asked permiAon tocall at Britton's
Neck, and I couldn't very well: refuse his re-
4uest, he's such a gallant young fellow," re-
plied the captain.
- "I'm sorry, for I have just learned from a,
lad, that Colonel Cunningham is in that vicinity
again, with quite a body of tories. Forstall
will be likely to fall in with him, I'm afraid,"
said the general.1
a' Perhaps we had better send a few of our
men after him," suggested Logan.-
"I will send Captain Hawes and his 'tarnal
critters,' " added Marion, good humoredly, and
immediately rode up to the personage referred
to.l He explained the case to him in a few
words, and ordered him to ride after Forstall,
as fast as possible, with his company.
"I expect the chap is galivantin' arter some
feminine specimint," said Captain Nick. "But
I can't blame the youngster much, for I kind-
er calkerlate I shall do somethin' in that per-
ticerlar line as soon as I can git time, after
finishin' the reverlttion."-

4" Quite right, sir ; the sex should be attend-
ed to, and are certainly worthy of respect," re-
plied Marion. f' Now, captain, away with you,
and rejoin us again As soon as possible."
"I'm off like a streak of chalk, general."
With these words, the captain fell back to his
place in front of his company.
"Attention, you 'tarnal critters! .Rare 'up
in your saddles-stick out your eyes to' the
front, and look unspeakable ! To- the right
about face-march/1"
And the "'tarnal critters " retraced their
steps to the spot where the roaddiverged which
Forstall had taken. They galloped off in fine
style, and the tall figure of Captain Nick tow-
ered up like one of the famed giants of the
'olden time.
There is a ripple upon the smoothest sea, and
some inharmony in all human proceedings, as
was illustrated by the fate of the unhappy
Jones ; for his colt became suddenly restive,
was guilty of all sorts of 'antics, threw the sec-
tions into confusion, and it was by the most
desperate exertions that his rider maintained
his seat.
"What's your brute tryin' to dey now'
inquired Captain Hawes.
"He kicks up for'ard," replied 'ones.

.58


1M

I.

"Lean to'ard his: eek, then, and keep him  Captain awes was in -advance of his cor-
deon," added:the captain: pany,;and he instantly ordered halt.
The misguided Jones leaued towards the neck  "I perceive," he said, "that there's a great
of the horse according to orders, when instantly many; horse tracks in, the road here, as though
the hinder portion of the animal suddenly flew a epnsiderable body of mounted men had just
up and landed him on his head and shoulders pssed over it. Now.this looks father supi.
in tie road-o                             cious, for if Cunningham  has been really re-
"I knew 'twould be so !" he exclaimed, cruiting in these parts, them tracks most pro-
legabriously.                              bably was made by his band. If I am right,
" Nateral philosophy would teach a person young Forstall, I reckon, is by this time a pris-
that if you hold down one end/ of that cretur, oner, and perhaps worse than that.  Jones,
the other'll fly up."                      try to hold that critter down, while I finish
"Ifyou dew that agin, Jones, I'll put yoi4, what I've got to say. The enemy can't be far
under arrest; I'll be blowed, if I Wont 1" f oin'here, judging by these tracks, and perhaps
cried Captain Nick.                        we shall have an all-sufficient tussle afore we
"I didn't do it," answered Jones.        git back to the brigade. So fuller me, and
"Don't contradict your superior officer, obey' orders.  Lieutenant Anderson, gallop
Jones. You threw yourself over his head be- ahead and reconnoitre a little. If you see any-
cause ,you!s afeared he'd kick up. Jones, you'll thin' suspicious, ride back without; givin'-any
disappint the hopes of yer country, if you don't alarm."
connet better. .Don't be a settin'-there on  The captain and his company moved on at
the ground a studying' geology, but up and{ at slow space, while the lieutenant proceeded to
Minzagin"-                                 do as he hadbeen ordered.  He had gone but
"I'm afegrgd,,eap'en," remonstrated Jones. a short distance in advance, when he was seen
" The cretur'snever been broke."           to stop 'suddenly, turn about, and -retrace his
"Corporal Higgins, prick that tarnal Jones stek,.ith 4llpged.
with your toad sticker c" continued the im-  "-Somthin's in the wind !" muttere Hawes
paeifled aWes.                           to himself. " And I hope there is, for I want
Jones tried to remount; but. the colt con- something' to do," he added, in a louder'voice.
tinued to kick and rear most industriously, and  In afewmoments Anderson was'by his side:
the thing couldn't easily, be accomplished.  "What' the row, lieutenant ?" he asked.
" A couple of the stoutest of you hold him  "We're just in time, cap'en. The road is
down," said Vaptain.Nick.  " What on airth full of tories, and some mischief is goin' on, you
did yougive the critter.for his breakfast'?"  may depend on't," replied Anderson, earnestly.
" A pint of oats, and a little new rum and, "I really believe they're goin' to hang some-
molasses," replied the culprit.    .      body."                    . -    --"-"..
Well, to-morrow-mornin'- give hima bun-  "You don't say so !" exclaimed -Captain
die of shaving's and two lengths of stone wall,' Nick, his eyes lighting up with the prospect of
said the:captain.  "Now hang to him, and no a "tussle."  " How many do you suppose
more pitchin' about under foot, if you don't there are ?",--
want to be made an 'exampletof. Attention, - "All of thirty, and they're all up in a heap,
the whole company ! straighten up-put her and terrible busy about something, which, as I
bhronigh--go ahead like blazes "          .told you, I believe is an execution."
'After this little episode, the Fire Eaters pro-  "Is there time to make an all-fired patriotic'
needed at a very rapid pace until .they reached speech, lieutenant ?" asked HIawes, eagerly.
the mein road where Forstall had concealed "You might, cap'en ; but it ought,- to be
himself to evade the tories.               darned short, under the circumstances; be.

NIABIN'S ,BRIG. .l

cause it's kinder delercate work to straighten a
feller up arter he's been hanging by the neck
during one of your almighty, speeches. A few
words might rile 'em up clean down, and make
'em obstroperlous," returned Anderson.  "But
bile it down to a few words, cap'en," he added.
"Feller-soldiers !" cried Captain Nick, wav-
ing his sword, " glory is afore us, disgrace be-
hinidus. Now's the time for -heroic deeds and
gallant achievements., Half-a-dozen of you help
Jones hold down that cussed colt. I aint goin'
to make a long speech. I'm only going' to pile
on a few specimints of nateral oratory, such as
the occasion suggests.  The road is full of tories,
and we're about to bust upon 'em like:an airth-
quake. I want every man that wears a sabre,
to swing it ! Give it to 'em hard-cut right
and left, and remember that you're fightin' for
life, love, liberty, and other sacred institutions.
Don't be skeered. Let's up and show the world
what we can do.   I'm goin' to charge on 'em,
and I'll die on the ground afore I'll knock un-
der. The deuce is in that colt; he's at it agin !
When I say 4alt, stop as though it was phy-
sically onpossible to go any further ; and when
I say charge, bust like some mighty convulsion
of natur. Roller me, and keep still, till we git
a view of 'em."
The horsemen rode on at an easy pace until
they had nearly reached the turn in the road,
when the, captain motioned them to stop, and
riding on a few yards farther, came in view of
Cunningham and his men.
"Keep back out of sight," said Hawes.
"I want to see what they're about. You were
right, Anderson ; the wretches are going' to
string up a human being , and'I believe it's that
young Forstall. Now if that isn't a scene to
make a man's blood feel hot, I never saw one.
I don't think I can contain my feelin's of. out-
raged humanity much longer., We'll break
upon 'em, sir, like a thunder clap ! Let's go
back, and lead on our Bengal tigers, for you
see they're all ready to murder him."
When Hawes stood once more before his com-
pany, his features were unusually stern, and he
was biting his lips with rage.  He unsheathed

61

his sword with a-jerk, bent forward in his sad-
dle, and exclaimed in a distinct though suppress-
ed voice.:
" They'e doin' Satan's own work out there,
my brave fellers; they're going' to strangle a
human specie-and one of Marion's Brigade'!
Straighten up, you tarnal critters-give your
horses the spurs till they sweat with pain-
bear down on the miscreants as though you were
all shot from the mouth of a mammoth mortar
in a body. Strike as if you meant to cut
through man and horse at a single blow. Steel
your hearts, I tell you, to deeds of blood, and
don't think of anything but victory and ven-
geance. Rare up in your saddles-follow me
like so many links of chain lightnin'."
Captain Hawes struck his spurs deep into
the sides of his horse ; every man of the com-
pany followed his example, and with drawn
sabres, and-brows contracted with frowns of
deadly hate, thundered forward with irresistible
impetuosity. They swept round the bend-
their foes were in sight, and the next moment
they charged through them with a dreadful
shock.   Horses were overturned, and their
riders crushed beneath them, while heavy sabres
flashed like living fires over their heads,.cutting
down their comrades with strokes that steel ar-
mor could not have resisted.   So furious was
the onset, and so headlong their speed, that
they were carried some yards beyond the spot
where the murder was being enacted ; but
checking their maddened horses, they turned,
obedient to the order of Hawes (whose voice
was heard like the blast of a bugle), and char-
ged back' upon the scattered and terrified
wretches.
" Strike hard, I tell you !" shouted the cap-
tain, and set the example himself.
The paralyzed senses of the tories began to
recover their activity ; they drove their rowels
into their horses' flanks,,and fled in every direc-
tion, Cunningham and Gainey being among the
foremost.
Forstall was instantly freed from his perilous
position ; the sharp sabre of Captain Nick cut
his bands, and seizing a weapon, he joined in


62                             MARION'c
the pursuit of the flying dragoons. A sense of
the outrage which had been offered him, nerved
his hand and gave additional energy to pursuit.
His horse sped 6n-like an arrow shot from the
bow of an ancient highlander. Frank pressed
hard upon a fugitive; he swung up his sabre ;
but before it had descended, the tory turned
back upon him a face pallid with terror, and he,
recognized in the ashy features, one of the mis-
creants who had been most active in arranging
the preliminaries of execution.
Forstall's heart swelled with a sense of the
indignity that he had experienced ; he struck

S BRIGADE.

home, and the man fell penetrated by a wound
which the combined powers of all earthly surgery
could never repair.
Strange are the vicissitudes of human exis-
tence ! Wickedness may prosper to-day; but
retribution may prevail on the morrow. At this
moment, wrong may triumph over right, but on
the next justice may walk forth with drawn
sword, with form erect, conquering and to con-
quer.  Let us then, gentle reader, endeavor to
profit by the experience of all past ages, and
gather sweet flowers of peace from  the ever
glorious and never dying plant of wisdom.

CIIAPTER XIII.
THE TORY   RENDEZvOUS.   SAUL AMONG THE PROPHETS.

T    HE tories were gathered at the place of
rendezvous; they came riding to the spot
by twos and threes, and in squads of half-a-dozen.
The locale was a'judicious one for the purpose,
being unfrequented and nearly surrounded by
lage forests. Cyrus Dix was first on the
ground, waiting impatiently for the coming of
his comrades and brethren in. the royal cause.
The idea of a captain's commission was still
-uppermost among many thoughts- that crowded
upon him. His mind aspired after authority,
power and emolument. The cause which he had
espoused was in the ascendant, and its ultimate
triumph seemed certain ; and it was of little
consequence to Dix whether it was based on the
immutable foundation of right, or founded on
the deepest quicksands of human wrong.
His heart was elated with pride, as he be-
held the people gathering around him. He felt
that he was already a. leader, and was and
would be acknowledged as such, although he
had yet received no formal appointment from
the legitimate source.
But Cyrus Dix was in externals, so far as
uniform was concerned, a captain; a coat of the

prevailing style, as worn in the royal army,
with epaulets and, other decorations, together
with a sword, etc., marked him as a person hav-
ing authority.
Colonel Ferguson had promised to be at
the gathering, and was punctual to the time.
While the royalists were trooping to the rendez-
vous, Dix was engaged in earnest conversation
with the colonel. The condition of the coun-
try, the speedy termination of the war, the best
policy to be pursued, and kindred topics, were
amply discussed.
While the parties were thus engaged, a large
and awkward youngman was observed by them
walking from place to place, staring at every
new-comer with dilated eyes.
"Rather a verdant youth," remarked Fer-
uuson, with a smile.
"I have just been watching his movements,"
replied Dix. "He's fresh from the bush,
probably. I saw him  when he came, and he
rode a very fine-looking horse."
"His dress don't appear to be of the most
recent style," said the colonel.
"Somewhat rusty and antique," added Dix.

I


64

MRION'S BRIGADE.

At that moment the individual alluded to, ap-uAt tim
proached within a few yards of the parties, p-        ies I am pressed like an ox-cart un-
"p Mygood fellow,w yard fhe   p artes r  der sheaves," was the emphatic response.
My good elw," said Ferguson, . "nature     "Poor fellow ! how dreadful it must be. I
it would seem, has gifted you with an inquiring shouldn't' supose all o  ealt  udsave. yo
mind'T              q    g           suposeall oursalt would save you
mnd." V ,from premature decay," rejoined the colonel.
" Verily, I am not one that loveth the sound  "A  little leaven leaveneth thetrm tadhelfiguofhesar." adDwonhe whole lump,"
of the trumpet, and the lifting up of the spear," said Dawson.evnlaeehth      hl   up"
replied the person addressed.                            .
" The pdrso aded. !"It had quite a lump                            to leaven in your
e           . you don't "   exclaimed the case, at any rate," remarked Dix, facetiously.
eoloel." What induced you to came here, my good
".Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord man'?" asked the colonel.
thy God in vain," answered the Qae        ih    '   e           ooe.
tgeat simplicity  ansQuaker,with                  Verily, I was invited up hither by some
gretsmlct of manner.                         friends of the king.  So I 'thouhIwol
Both Ferguson and Dix laughed      at this come to see   kning.ughtI would
somewhat doubtful rejoinder, and wondered the to       se if anything would be done to favor
whether the unsophistica ed yuhma t  hQuaker sect in particular, and the spi'ead of
whether the unsophisticated youth meant to righteousness in general," answered Dawson.
SMy . excellent,   mibut  rather prt   a     hsQuite right; and I am happy to say that
friend,  excllete  buto h I puritanical his majesty is the particular friend of Quakers,
friend," added the colonel, "I perceive tbat and as soon as peace is securedbln  otesc  aldQaes"itnsted in this country,
you belong to the ect called Quakers." intends ato send over ship loads of them, that
"By the grace of heaven, I am numbered this unhappyland maybe  platfuthspnled
with the salt of the earth,"    returned the with the 'y    of the     le t    sprinkled
youygg man, piously, elevating his eyes towards guson.
the ethereal region whence, that particularunc-  "If that is the caseIs  ma
. 4ion which he had, mentioned, was supsd    -atos h rs,I shall make his msjes-
flow.                            suppose to ty a subject of my powerful prayers," returned
flow.Job, earnestly.
"Fortunate youth !" exclaimed the colonel,     Do so, by all means; they'll have great
with mock solemnity.                          effect, no sOoubt  but I theyll  e wgl-
"I had thought that he looked too rsht     ffcnosou';bu           rust you will be wl-
"I  ad houht hathe ookd to fresh to ing to fight for him, as well as to- pray fur
have any connection with any of the salts, ex- him   t"     f hs"o                      r
cept the neutral salts, perhaps," observed Dix,  "Verily, I cannot , ght
looking significantly at the colonel,                  y, o  ann w    gr b with the c arnal
" I  noi notingof te dffernt  , - weapons of human warfare ; but I can wrestle
h I know nothing of the diflbrent sects you desperately in prayer.  My soul delighteth in
(except that of the Bible) as vanity, and as    "These good people a
something that will'not abide the test of the their   se f go  ppe  are gathering to show
reat day,"-returned Job Dawson, twirling his   "What works" k      e  o
t umbs religiously, and sighing profoundly.     "By takingarms in his
"What's the matter'?" asked the colonel    ed the colonel.
with apparent solicitude for his health.        "It'is better to sufrw
" I was thinking of the nati-ns that set in wrong;"soath            re    than to.r do
darknesst" said Job, with a nasal twang.    esteemed by the salt of the earth," returned Job,
tAre there many such unfortunates ?" eon- with a twang still more inveterately nasal.
t"ue Atreat coltel                           "What may I call the name of such an ex-
"A great multitude which- no man can num- emplarytpious,- and conscentiusynge-
ber," was the melancholy reply.     a        temlay" ps       d    on.     ousyoungen
" I should think you'd sink under it         man?' asked Ferguson-
added Ferguson.                      really,"   .I am called Jotham, and my surname..is

1MARTON'S BRIQAItE.

E

66

Stebbins," replied Job, and then added "May
I ask the name of so noble-looking an officer as
you seem to be'?"
"My surname is Ferguson, and I' am called
colonel by those who call me," replied Ferguson,
,mimicking the sing-song style of Dawson.
"Then thou art that mighty man of valor of
whom I have heard so much, and whose famne is
trumpeted throughout all this land. Verily,
thou art one of the valiant ones ; but I like not
thy trade. And is it not written, friend Fer-
guson, that those who take the sword shall per-
ish by that same instrument of death'?"
"Are there any whigs where you came from,
honest Jotham'?" said the colonel, with much
nonchalance.
"Verily, friend Ferguson, they have been
scattered abroad like sheep upon the mountains
of Israel," replied "simple Jotham."
"Did you ever hear of one Francis Marion,
- pious Mr. Stebbins ?" continued the colonel.
"I have heard of his deeds, and he's a man
of blood," said " pious Stebbins."
" Where is he now'?"
"It hath been reported in my hearing, with-
in the last hour, that he is in a large swamp on
the Santee river, hard pressed by Major Wemyss,
who hath resolved on his destruction," rejoined
Dawson.
" This is important news," said the colonel
to Dix.
"Question him farther,".answered the latter.
" Do you think 'the report of Marion's
being on the Santee, under the circumstances
you have named, can be relied on, Mr. Steb
bins'?" inquired Ferguson, earnestly.
"Ihad it from one whom I consider as on
of the salt of the -earth," was the reply.,
" That's very favorable," said Dix to th
colonel.  "There'll be no danger of our being
disturbed here until we get ready to pounce
upon the enemy, - and become ourselves th
aggressors."
"The best part of it all is that Wemyss i
after him," replied the-officer.
"Brother Parker, (who is also one of th
salt)," i-esumed Dawson, " stood up and prop

.ti^'"'' /

esied (as it were) saying,' 'every soul of them
shall be-cut off;' and this he spake not  of him;
self, for he had received confidential news from
a British officer, who knew all the particulars
thereof."
6 Very good, honest Jotham," responded the
colonel.
"If I heir anything more about Francis,
shall I tell thee'?" inquired Dawson.
"Of course, Jotham, by all means; but you
must keep your mouth tight as a powder-horn
in relation to what you see and hear at this
place ; and as you are a stout, able-bodied fel-
low, I advise you as a friend to join these royal
and\peaceably disposed people in defending the
rights of the excellent king, to whom these
North' American provinces owe allegiance."
"If I really thought it wasn't wrong !" said
Job.
Colonel Ferguson thereup6n assured him that
it was not wrong.
"I'll think of it, friend Ferguson," added
Job; " and if I should conclude to go up to
battle with the king's Israel, I shall assuredly
smite the evil-doers, hip and thigh ; but not
with carnal weapons ; for my soul loveth not
the sound of the trumpet, and I have no pleas-
ure in the neighing of war-steeds when they pre-
pare themselves for the battle."
. It was now the hour of sunset, and until twi-
light had given place to night, the gigantic
figure of Job Dawson was seen moving slowly
about among the tories, staring at everything he
saw with clownish curiosity. It might have
- been remarked also, by a close observer, that
the Quaker was often near Ferguson and Dix,
e and though the parties spoken of frequently
changed their position, he usually managed, al-
e though in a manner calculated to appear wholly
g incidental, to establish, the same relations be-
e tween them and himself.
e    It was natural that Cyrus Dix should be con-
fidential with tihe colonel; he grew eminently
s so. He even talked of Kate Mai tin, and re-
lated the substance of his last interview with her
e and her father. When Dix mentioned the pas-
- tor's name, Ferguson remarked that he was a


66                                M4JXQ'$ JB       IGe-
dangerous man, and unless he became more eau. in the whig cause and       h
tious about disseminating his rebellious ntin most dner        that's           the cn
meats, it would be imperatively necessary to try.    Dix added, moreover, ht nte'       vn
resort to rigorous measures with   him.   He that Kate should prove capricious, he intended
heard from good authority that he had preached to often her tovhis wishes by proceeding to e-
exciting ahd peh                   ch ed     ities with her rebel father; and the colonel
cited many of the misguided people of Rocky might rely on him to keep             mato
Creek to take arms, and join Marion's Brig- claim      y                 hernstill.ryde
ade.                       .   l-
r    b   sed        eSoon after this conversation, Job Dawson
Dix answered that the report was -entirely disappeared from the tory rendzou;an.      h
true, but that he (Ferguson) had heard but a awkward young manwas seen no longerangh
small part of the truth, inasmuch as Mr. Martin in wondering apathy at the preparations for
had done more than most persons were aware of war.

I

CHAPTER XIV.
RUTH A" MARY.

ARY ADAIR recovered her, conscious-
ness in a short time, and as she was
still trembling with excitement, Ruth insisted
that she should return instantly to the house.
On the way thither, Mary related the particu-
lars of what had just transpired-the sudden
appearance of the tries, and the danger to
which Hawthorne had been exposed. \
"!Here is a secret for woman's curiosity to
unravel," said Ruth, playfully. " Who is this
Lewis Hawthorne, of'whom you have been
speaking?"
Mary Adair colored, and Miiss Strickland
kindly forbore to press the subject. When the
two young ladies had reached the house, the re-
cent adventure was made known to Mrs. Strick-
land, whohad been considerably alarmed by the
tumult which she had heard without, knowing
the exact position of affairs.
While proper explanations were being made,
and congratulations and inquiries exchanged,
the parties were again, thrown into some excite-
ment by the sound of prolonged shouting at'a
considerable distance. . To hasten outside into
tho open air, was an impulse quickly felt and
obeyed by each,

"I can see Cunningham's men," said Ruth."
They are still near the spot where Lewis
was in such danger, and where the man fell,"
added Mary Adair.
" There seems to be something unusually ex'
citing taking place," remarked Mi's. Striekland,
"'Let us walk forward in that direction."
The parties proceeded a few hundred yards
and again paused.
"Perhaps," suggested Ruth, "they are in
terring the body."
" And it is po ible," added Mary, in an
agitated voice, "that they have captured Lewis
Hawthorne."
" Heaven forbid I" exclaimed Mrs. Strick'
land, "for those wretches show no mery."
At that instant, Ruth uttered a piercing
shriek, and clung to her mother convulsively
for support. To the earnest inquiries of the
latter, and the sympathizing Mary, she respond'
ed only by sighs and tears. At length she was.
able to exclaim
"'Tis he ! 'tis he!"
" 'Tis who'?" cried Mary, whoa Ruth's en-
elamations had placed on-the rack of suspense,

I

.. a  . .
n
,ti
..
,:,, ,     .,

I


I

1'

BRIGADE.

68                   -          1'ARION'S
"Forstall !" replied Ruth, with a shudder.
" Be calm, Ruth ; yield not to your terrors ;
they may prove unfounded," said Mrs. Strick-
land, firmly.
"I should know him among a thousand," re-
turned Ruth.   "I know I am not mistaken,"
Mrs. Strickland and Miss Adair looked anx-
iously and steadily towards the group of per-
sons. Botdi felt sick at heart when their worst
fears were confirmed. They beheld Forstall in
that awful position where eternity seems to
open upon the senses-so narrowed down are
the limits of mortal existence-so brief the space
between the two worlds.
The beholders' cheeks grew pale, and they
gazed into each other's eyes, and at Ruth, in
speechless agony of spirit ; for it is a dreadful,
spectacle t4 look upon the execution of a fellow-
being under aly circumstances; and the pain
is inconceivably enhanced when the sufferer is
a friend, and, a martyr to some high and holy
cause.
Mrs, Strickland endeavored to shut out the
fearftl scene from Ruth; but the latter put her
gently aside, and strained her, eyes in the diree-,
tionof ;the tragic proceedings. -
. 4 Why..'do we remain here inactive !" she
exclaimed, at length. - "-Why do we not lhasten
forward;. andentreat the miscreants to spare his
life ?"
"Alas! before we could pass over half the
distance, the horrible drama will be closed; the
yong -man will be no more," 'returned the
ntbee"
-" But it is criminal-it is cruel to. do noth-
ing for:him!:" ejaculated Ruth.         .
"Let us pray, lRith," said her mother; in af
soleinn tone.
The three sank to their knees, as if actuated
by i single will, 'and ,Mrs. Strickland prayed
eainestly: and tearfully.-' She besought. the
Father, if it were possible; to avert the im-
pending fate of the young man; .but if it' o6uld
not be thus, that he would graciously vouchsafe s
to grant him an easy pasag6, and angelicac
we oae to the eternal home.. Her supplica-

MARION'S B

tions arose strong 'and pure, upborne on the
-celestial wings of all-conquering faith.
The low, fervent voice of prayer was inter-
rupted by one louder and harsher than the clang
of a brazen trumpet.
"Straighten up, you tarnal critters ! Strike
home, I tell you !"A
The parties sprang to their feet and looked
towards the spot from which they had just turn-
ed with sickened hearts. What an unexpected
sight met their astonished vision ! They saw a
party of horsemen headed by a tall man, dash
with the speed of lightning and the din of roll-
ing thunder, into the group of tory misereantd,
busy with the work of murder ; they beheld, as
if by a divine interposition, the wretches scat.
tered -and blasted before the impetuous onset of
Captain Hawes.
" Cut 'em down, I tell you !" shouted the
leader, the tones of his stentorian voice echoing
afar, making the hearts of his enemies quiver
with the horror of death.'
"Tarleton's quarters,* no mercy I" wethe
stern wdrds thfat ' again resounded among  .
hills and: valleys.
S"The hand of God must be in this ! .-
claimed Mrs. Strickland.' "May it teaeohu- to
trust his care in all future 'time." '
"See how the dreadful foe is scattered&amp;"I:re.
marked Mary,' earnestly. ' "Forstall'  rgee.'
he joins in the.' pursuit. how changedLii'the
scene'! What a wonderful reverse I''
Ruth pressed Mary's hand in silence, mod.
the color once more mounted to her chiejrs.
S"There goes' G'iney; and Cuniinghym !"
added Mrs. Strickland.   "They are ' "   ing
fences and ditches to evade pursuit. iThey:  ,
escape their just deserts,"
In a few moments not an enemy was to. =e
seen. Captain Hawes had-swept the field, and
proved himself a bold and intrepid leader.
The blast of a bugle recalled the "t arnal
critters " from the ;anguine chase; for them
*Torleton's quarters, was an expression o M~nihi
ignifieaaee, and referedto the merciless sl u hee'ts.
over three hundred American infantry,, under ,&amp;e-
teant o nel  Bauord by Lieutenant Colonel  le-
tosof the toyu o.       ,.        1      -

tain prudently remembered that he was to re-
join the brigade as soon as possible, in order to
be present at the anticipated surprise. His men
were soon gathered about him, flushed with the
pride and excitement of victory.
" Neighbors and patriots !"  said Hawes.
"You have done yourselves immortal honor,
individually, respectively, and  collectively.
The great heart of humanity will beat with new
life, when the history of your gallant conduc-
tions shall be generally promulgated throughout
the airth, and at Rocky Creek, where many of
you was cradled in. the' earliest stages of exis-
tence. This is a mighty smart day in the an-
nals' of our country. My soul expands un-
speakable ! My innermost natur is swellin' like
a smothered volcano. Little airthquakes are
ready to bust in every vein. My feelin's rush
me along with the tremenjous speed of a wild
harrycane, and the power of an untamed ava-
lanche. That cussed colt is dancin' up and
down again ! Jones, mind your failin's, or I'll
have you arrested !
The enemy's whipt ; he feels as though he'd
been struck by a thousand acres of electric
fluid, manufactured into the spryest kind of
lightnin' known to inquirin' minds. Ve shall
ride back to the brigade, carryin' the soul-cheer-,
in' news of an all-fired tussle !"
"Jones is throwed again !" interrupted Cor-
poral Higgins, as the captain paused to take
breath. The military chieftain cast a reproach-
ful look at the still misguided Jones.
"I., hope nothin' will transpire," he said,
"to mar the splendor of this afternoon's achieve-
ments. Jones, if you must make an ass of
yourself, do it when I aint makin' a speech.
Pitchin' about in that way, is a bad habit to
get into, and sets a dirty example to the rest on
'em. Glue yourself to that colt agin instantly,
and throw no more double summersets in the
ranks. Sergeant Davis, prick Jones a little
with your toad-sticker. Mr. Forstall, I see
you're lookin' all-sufficient wishful' to'ards that
group of femernine specimints out yonder. I'll
wait for you six minutes and a few seconds,
while you go and give 'em your blessin'."
5

RIGADE:                                69
Forstall gladly availed himself of this per-
mission, and in a moment reined up his horse
beside Ruth Strickland. Though still laboring
under the excitement of the late proceedings,
Forstall's old embarrassment returned as soon
as he found himself in the presence of the maid-
en in whom he felt so deep an interest.
He shook warmly the proffered hand of the
trio, and received their congratulations with
emotions of pleasure not easily described.
Notwithstanding he had so recently resigned
himself to death, the love of life was never stron-
ger in his bosom, than then; for there seemed
to him something}unusually tender and friendly
in the glances of Ruth.
When a few words of general import had
been exchanged, Mrs. Strickland remarked that
it was necessary she' should immediately return
to the house, and begged to be excused, trust-
ing that Mary and her daughte? would more
than make good her absence.
The elder, lady walked away ; and in a mo-
ment after, when Frank turned from Ruth to
Miss Adair, he discovered that she was at a eon-
siderable distance from him and his fair com-
panion.
Though the opportunity of being alone with
theqinteresting being beside him, was what he
had eagerly desired, yet when that condition
actually existed, he was wholly unprepared to
improve it. When Ruth perceived that her
mother and Mary had suddenly vanished, she
was painfully confused, for she feared that it
might appear to Frank as a pre-arranged move-
ment ; a supposition that would have proved
very annoying to her, and very unjust.
The young lady's confusion was cruelly con-
tagious, and Forstall could not think of a single
appropriate remark to hazard under the cir-
cumstances. Contrary to the generally estab-
lished precedent in such cases, the maiden was
the first to break the silence, which had become
awkwardly embarrassing.
" A most fortunate escape," said Ruth.
"Yes, perhaps, providential. I had given
up all thoughts of deliverance from the unfor-
tunate and ignominious position in which I was


70                   MARION'S BRIGADE.

placed," he replied, with considerable hesita-
tion of manner,
"Your friends will rejoice that so dreadful a
tragedy was averted," added Ruth, moving
slowly towards Mary Adair, and feeling most
keenly that she was placed in a position that
might easily be misconstrued. She resolved to
prevent a possibility which would be so humi-
liating, and instantly called to Miss Adair, say-
ig that Mr. Forstall and herself desired her
company; and Mary turned and came slowly
towards them, apparently absorbed in her own
thoughts.
"Miss Adair is a charming young lady, Miss
Strickland, but when I have the happiness to
be near you, I do not feel the want of other-
other--."
" Hurry up-hurry up !" shouted Captain
Hawes. " I can't allow you but a few minutes
longer. We've got to lick another township of
tories to-night, you know."
"You are aware that we have been acquainted
for a long period, Miss Strickland, and that I
naturally-naturally---"   ,
Forstall stopped, and vainly endeavored to
recall and embody the idea, which was in his
mind when he commenced.
To hide her own embarrassment, Ruth asked
Frank if he knew Lewis Hawthorne; to which
inquiry, he replied in the negative.
"The times are so-so precarious, that it is
very hard to tell when I may see you again, and
therefore-therefore-" added Frank, failing
entirely to come to the point.
" Then you don't know Mr. Hawthorne ?"
said Ruth.I

"No," stammered Forstall, completely un-
nerved.
"I had hoped that the friendship that has
subsisted-subsisted-"
"In the excitement of the moment, I have
neglected to refer to my father's imprisonment.
Have you yet learned anything in relation to
the general treatment and condition of the
prisoners taken.at Camden ?" asked Ruth.
" I have not yet been able to gather any in-
formation, in regard to the prisoners, that would
be of particular interest to you, but be assured
that I have not yet forgotten the promise which
I made at our last interview. It is probable
that many of the unfortunates will be sent to
Charleston  for safe- keeping.  Should Mr.
Strickland be among th number, there's a
prospect that something m y be done to set him
at liberty ; an event which I greatly desire,
because it will add to the happiness of one in
whom-"
" Come along, Forstall; we've straightened
up to start !" shouted Captain Nick. " Give
her your benediction, and don't let the gr s'
grow under your horse's feet."
"Farewell, Ruth," said Frank, reluctantly.
"Mtost you go so soon ?" she asked.
"Duty forces me from the spot where I would
linger forever," answered Forstall, earnestly-
- "Attention, the hull ! right about face 1"
cried Hawes.
Frank turned slowly from  Ruth, and she
bade him adieu in a low voice.
" March !" added the captain, and Forstall
put spurs to his horse and galloped swiftly after
the men of Rocky Creek.    A

CHAPTER XV.
AN UNwELCoME VISIT.
f ARION'S Brigade halted in a wood Henderson don't love the ground you walk on,"
about six miles from Rocky Creek, and added Sawyer, obstinately.
waited for darkness to favor the consummation " Come, I shall be angry with you," said
of their purpose. Henderson, much to his re- Kate.
gret, was now deprived of the society of Kate "That wont make no difference to me," an-
Martin, as she had continued her way home- swered Joe. "I shall stick to you just the
ward under the escort of Joe Sawyer; a duty same. My gratitude wont be put out by a
which the latter was ready and. willing to per- pretty show of anger on your part."
form; for in his estimation (as well as Hen-  "Shall you go to the -tory rendezvous, to-
derson's) she was all that was worthy of imita- morrow ?" replied Kate, evasively.
tion in woman, combining in her own person the  "I shall go, if you do."
sum total of feminine graces.                " Be assured that I shall not. But here we
"That Mr. Henderson is done for," said are at the settlement. What will you do ?"
Joe, sullenly.  "Turn my horse into the pasture, and let
"i don't quite apprehend your meaning, those who love to fight, go to war. When I
Joe," replied Kate, demurely.              can serve you, I shall be ready and proud to do
"He's smashed; he couldn't take his eyes so," was the rejoinder.
off from you a minute," returned Sawyer.     It was dark when Kate reached home. Her
"Couldn't he, Joe?" inquired Kate, in a return was.anxiously expected, and occasioned
manner intended to be very common-place.   much joy. Nothing of particular interest had
"You know he couldn't, Queen Kate, and transpired during her brief absence. Mr. Mar-
you're blushin' up about it now."          tin called her his " brave girl," and his "heroic
"Nonsense, Joe."                      - Kate ;" while the good horse, Victor, who had
You can say 'nonsense, Joe,' as much as proved so faithful a servant, was suitably cared
you please, but that wont convince me that for.


72                              MARION'S
Kate related the story of her adventures to
attentive auditors, partook of refreshments, and
was about to retire, when an unexpected and
painful scene occurred. There was a loud
knocking at the outer door, and Mrs. Martin
opened it. A man wearing the uniform of a
subaltern officer entered, followed by ten or a
dozen dragoons. Their entry was hurried and
unceremonious, and their looks unprepossessing.
Kate and her mother grew pale, but the pastor
remained calm.
" Your name is Martin ?" said the officer,
interrogatively, and not-very courteously.
" It is," he replied.
"You're the man we're after," added the
officer, laconically.           V
"For what object ?" asked the pastor.
"To punish you for your canting hypocrisy,"
returned the man, impatiently.
"In the long catalogue of my earthly sins, I
believe that hypocrisy will not be found," re-
turned Martin,
"Lay hands on the sanctimonious villain !"
exclaimed the officer.
Several of the dragoons moved forward to
execute the orders of their leader ; but Kate
interposed her own person between her father
and the ruffian crew, and commanded them to
offer him no indignity, if they made any pre-
tensions to the name of men and Christians.
"Stand away, miss ; your advice aint wanted
at present," added the leader, with a sneer,
though not a little surprised at the beauty and
heroisin of Kate.
" By whose orders do you 'act ?" she asked,
firmly.
"By Colonel Ferguson's," replied the man.
" Then return and tell him that you find here
only defenceless females, and a' venerable ser-
vant of God," rejoined Kate, energetically.
"And get put under arrest for my trouble ?"
said the leader, with a sneer.
" It. is more manly to suffer wrong than to1
perpetrate wrong," answered the maiden.
" We didn't come here to hear' you or your
father preach sermons, my pert damsel," re-

BRIGADE.

torted the officer. " Men, seize the rebel, and
bind him."
"Stand aside, my - dear Kate," said Mr.
Martin, embracing her affectionately. " When
we cannot resist injustice, we must suffer it with
Christian meekness. I must submit to these
men; no alternative remains.   Your earnest
appeals will but provoke their malice. Soldiers,
I am ready, like Paul, not only to be bound,
but to die in the cause of truth and righteous-
ness."
While the good pastor was speaking, he, gen-
tly put Kate from him, and the dragoons in-
stantly seized him.
"Don't be afraid of hurting him !" exclaim-
ed the officer.
"Do not draw the cords qu- so tight, my
good man," said the pastor to t e soldier who
was tying his hands.
" Tighter-tighter !" added t e leader, sav-
agely ; "and he may thank his teirs that it is
not his neck instead of his wri  ."   .   =l
"What crime hath he eo mitted ?" asked
Mrs. Martin, mildly.
" A  reasonable question,  ruly !  His life
would not atone for half th mischief he has'
done. He has promulgated s pernicious sen-
timents under the guise of r igion. His min-
istry is the ministry of Satan  or of rebellion,
which is the same thing. B his career is out
short; you may depend on it, e will suffer ac-
cording to his deserts."
" Do your worst. 'I am prepared for all that
I may be called upon to suffer in this cause,"
remarked Martin, firmly.
"Take that, then, if you will continue to
whine and cant, and provoke me to anger i"
cried the loyalist, striking him' with his sword.'
"Insolent wretch !" exclaimed Kate, indig-
nantly. "Is this your manhood ! is this your
honor as a loyal officer ! Dare you strike a
man whose hands are bound, and whose profes-
sion forbids him'to fight, even were he on even
terms with you?"
" Not so fast, fair rebel; 'we're not done yet.
If there's anything eatable and drinkable in the
house, we want it."

m

MARION'S BRIGADE.

"We cannot minister to such miscreants !"   " Standin' or settin'?" inquired a fifth.
exclaimed Mrs. 'Martin.                       "As we are ; here goes ! Long life to her,
"If thine enemy hunger, feed him ; if he and a short one. to her canting father."
thirst, give him drink," said the father, re- "' Take him out ! take him out ! give it to
provingly.                                  him right, my heroes."
The house was instantly searched, and every- "Come, my old gentleman, say somethin' ;
thing that was eatable despatched without cere- your time's come, and no-no mis-mistake."
mony. Many small articles of trifling value   Kate threw her arms about her father, and
were also appropriated by the soldiers, and con- solemnly protested that she would die-with him,
cealed about their persons. Among the things while Mrs. Martin attempted to remonstrate with
found, was a keg of wine used for sacramental the soldiers; but she might as well have spoken
purposes ; this was drunk with impious jests, to the -winds of a mad tempest ; opposition but
and was the cause of much mischief; for being inflamed their desire to perpetrate something
of an excellent quality, it soon mounted to their horrible.
heads, and inflamed their natural love of wick-  " Can't you drag the gal away, some on ye ?"
edness. One of the boldest of the party de- asked one of the soldiers.
manded Kate's-finger rings; and another at-    " Of course we can," replied one of his com-
tempted to pull the plain gold ornaments from rades, staggering towards Kate with the inten-
her ears ; -a piece of cruelty which the maiden tion of tearing her from her father.
barely escaped.  She immediately unfastened    " Stand  back, miscreant !"  cried  Kate,
the baubles and threw them to the fellow who drawing from  her bosom  one of the pistols
had resolved to possess them; remarking as she which Sawyer had  given her.  "Advance
did so, "that he must be unworthy the name another step, or' presume to lay your infamous
of soldier who could descend to the meanness hand on my person, and I will certainly fire."
of robbing women of their personal ornaments';  The soldier paused and looked wonderingly
and that cause must be indeed bad which is de- at Kate, whose hand did not tremble, and whose
fended by men of such principles."  -       eyes did not cease to flash with determination.
The leader here interfered, and ordered the  " Don't stir, my man, or she'll do it ; it's
ornaments to be -restored, reminding the men in her eye !" cried.the commander of the party,
that they were ordered not to take anything in a warning voice.
away; but every moment they became more       One of the dragoons now cocked his musket,
boisterous and dangerous, until finally it was but instantly, before he had time to accomplish
proposed that they should shoot Mr. Martin on his fell purpose upon the pastor without endan-
the spot.                                   gering Kate, Mrs. Martin placed herself before
This proposal was hailed with shouts of ap- him. It is impossible to tell what would have
plause by the majority ; and the leader was now been the result of these proceedings,. had not -
too drunk to have much to say about it ; but Joe Sawyer at that moment burst into the room,
on the whole, thought it would give very good exclaiming in a 'loud and peremptory voice :
satisfaction to Colonel Ferguson.,            "I come from Colonel Ferguson.. He wants
"The country hereabout can't never be safe you to hurry to the rendezvous with the prison-
while he spofits rebellion," observed one, with er as soon as possible ; he's getting in a terri-
drunken hesitancy.                          ble passion about your long absence ; he's
"I allers said it;" added another.       threatenin' hard things, I tell you."
"Jest take him out (hie-up) and I'll-I'll   The leader of the squad had' sense, enough
fixhim," said a third.                      remaining to tremble at the name of Ferguson.
"Drink the health of that fair dam-damsel,  "To your duty, men !" he cried ; " we've
first, my brave lads," proposed a fourth.  been foolin' long enough. Set old Martin on

)

73


74                             MARION'.
horseback, and let us be off, or we shall catch it,
and no mistake !"
" And mark the rest: He says that no
violence must be offered the rebel prisoner ; and
you'll be answerable, if there is," added Joe.
" Hurry, you drunken rasgals !" said the
officer.
"The best thing you can do, sir. I'll help
you get the prisoner mounted. Come, Mr.
Martin," continued Joe, looking significantly
at Kate, "mount, and be off with these flhe
lads. The colonel wants to see you. Miss
Martin, don't be a henderin' the king's men ;
they have trouble enough, the Lord knows,
without havin' foolish women gettin' in their
way at sich times as these."
Kate instantly fell back with a grateful look.
at Joe, who thereupon assisted Mr. Martin out
of the house, and to mount a horse. After
some staggering and blustering, the dragoons
succeeded in getting- into their saddles, and then
rode away with their prisoner.

S BRIGADE.
"Do you think he is safe with them ?" asked
Kate.
Joe replied that they would 'not now dare
offer him any violence, on account of the col-
onel, of whom they stood much in fear.
Kate then inquired if he had really been to
the tory rendezvous.
"Not at all," he replied. "I found out that
mischief was going on, and made up the story to
suit the occasion; and it has worked very well,
for to-night Marion's Brigade will rescue him."
Mrs. Martin and Kate did not neglect'to ex-
press their heartfelt thanks to Sawyer for his
timely aid; Kate felt that the adage was indeed
true that kindness conferred never fails to re-
ceive its reward.
The dictates of gentle pity had constrained
the young lady to interfere to save Joe's life,
and already had his gratitude more than repaid
the trouble the act had cost her.
1L

A T a late hour in the evening, Job Dawson
was observed in conversation with Gen-
eral Marion.   Frank Forstall. was standing
near Ben Rowan, and improved the occasion to
ask the latter if he had "pulverized " the Qua-
ker recently. Ben did not greatly relish the
question, and scowled rather ominously upon
the questioner.
"I know very well what you're comin' at,1'
said Rowan, not very good naturedly ; "but
you're much mistaken about that little affair.
I'm sometimes troubled with a vertigo or dizzi-
ness in the head, which seizes me awful sud-
den, and knocks my pins right out from under
me pand that accounts for my tumbling down
so awkwardly that mornin' when I undertook to
pulverize that humbug."
"I was not aware that vertigo affected the-
legs, particularly," answered Forstall.
"I calkerlate-to make you aware of it, sir I"
retorted Ben, rolling up his sleeves rather
menacingly. " I've borne this sort of thing
long enough ; and .I aint goin' to be made the
laughing stock of the whole 'brigade, just be-
cause my foot slipped when I was about to fetch

him a lick that would have loosened all his
teeth."
" I understood you that it was a case of real
vertigo," remarked Frank.
"I didn't say vertigo ; I said apoplexy ; and
I have been subject to it at times, more or less,
on an average, off and on, from infancy, if not
longer ; and I'll pulverize any man that makes
fun of sich an infirmity, or disputes the fact by
word or look," returned Ben, decidedly,
"It's a great pity you happened to be seized
at that particular moment," observed Mr. Hen-
derson.
"I didn't say-I was seized  I was a goin' to
strike him, but.he stepped aside, I missed my
aim, and the force of the blow threw me down.
But you don't seem to understand it, and what's
more, don't want to ; but one thing is sartain ;
the man as don't believe, has got to stand up
face to face with Ben Rowan !" cried the boxer,
with increasing energy.
"It wasn't apoplexy after all, then," added
Henderson.
"I never said it was; it's plain to see that
you want to get up a quarrel, and the quicker

CHAPTER XVI.
A sCENE AT THEF TORY 'unENDEZvoUs.

6


76                   MARION'S BRIGADE.

the thing comes off, the better ; so come on, on
or two at a time, just as you like, and I'll pu
verize the lot."
Ben put himself in an attitude of defence
and looked very formidable.
"I can't fight that way,"   said Forstall
"and I couldn't. fight my good friend, Be
Rowan, on any account." ,
"hBesides," added Henderson, seriously, "yo
had better finish Job Dawson, before you ge
any more of that kind of work on hand."
"You're cowards !"   exclaimed Ben.   "-
believe you'll run to-night, when you see th
enemy's camp-fires,  As for that Quaker, you'r
in league with him. But I've not done witl
him yet ; I'll pulverize him, if it takes me hal
a day.- I shouldn't wonder if he proved to b
a spy from the enemy; he's been gone all th
afternoon, nobody knows where, and if the
truth was known,-General Marion is a little sus
picious of him, for he's eyin' him mighty sharj
now."
The individual referred to at that moment
left Marion and approached the parties who had
made him the subject of conversation.  The
sabre, which was not by his side the last time
the reader saw him, now swung at its accustom-
ed place.     .1.,
It amused Forstall and Henderson not a lit-
tie, to see the contemptuous manner which Ben
Rowan still maintained towards him.
"How do you find yourself, friend Dawson ?"
asked Henderson.
"I never was lost, friend John," replied Job,
with much simplicity.
" Rowan has been explaining to us about
that affair which happened between you and him
a few mornings since. - We all, it seems, have
labored under a mistake, not knowing that Ben's:
unlucky fall was occasioned by an apoplectic
fit," said Forstall; with an air of seriousness.
"I didn't say a fit, but afalling sickness!"
exclaimed Ben, angrily.
" Thou art right, good Benjamin; it was a
falling sickness, if thou wilt," answered Job.
"rHear that-he -owns it !" cried Ben,
triumphantly.

Le   "It's all right, then," added Henderson -
1- "and I hope you and Dawson will now shake
hands."
e, " I have no ill feeling towards friend Benja-
min," said Job.
, " Shake hands, then," returned Henderson.
S" See what I'll do to him," whispered Ben
to Forstall. "Perhaps I wont crush the bones
u in his hand. A I dare say not ! Look out for
t fun !"
"Here is my hand, good Benjamin," said
I Job, mildly, extending .his broad palm.
e    " Well, I don't care," replied Ben, " since
e you acknowledge that I was not vanquished by
h mortal strength, but by disease, I'll give you
f my fist on it ; so here goes."
e   Rowan seized Dawson's hand, and pressed it
e with all his strength, expecting that the latter
- would cry out with, pain, and a laugh would be
- produced at his expense.
"Verily," said Dawson, "I like a warm and
friendly grasp, and I am glad to put an end to
this misunderstanding. Therefore let this cor-
dial grasp convince you that I cherish no kardc
feelings towards you."
While the Quaker was making these remarks,,
he closed his mighty hand upon Ben's, and the
fingers sunk into the flesh like iron rods. Row-
an's whole frame quivered with pain ; but he
stood like a martyr, waiting with what fortitude
he could muster, for the moment of release.
"Art thou satisfied, good Benjamin ?" kind-
ly inquired Dawson, shaking Rowan's power-
less hand still more vehemently.
" I-I-am-it--it is all-all right," repli-
ed the boxer, 'his face growing dreadfully red,
while his eyes gave abundant indications of being
uncommonly watery.
" It is a- good thing, Benjamin, for a man. to
be fully persuaded in his own, mind," added
Dawson, still tightening his grip.  "I hope
you are really in earnest about this matter, and
that this friendly pressure of hands is without
deceit."
" Yes--yes !" exclaime' Ben, dancing round
Job like a young grisly bear caught in a steel

MARION'S BRIGADE.                                   77
trap. "I tell you it's all-all--made up be- ted leader, Frank Forstall and John Henderson
teen us."                                were ordered to go forward on foot and re-
Forstall and Henderson roared with laughter, connoitre.
and Rowan, when released from the mortifying Grateful for this mark of the general's onfi-
situation in which he had placed himself, at- dence, our hero obeyed with alacrity. Crossing
tempted to join in the merriment, but vexation a brook, Frank and Henderson entered the
prevailed over the faint effort, and he informed large field, and guidedhby theanumerous fires
For'stall confidentially, as they walked towards that were burning brightly, walked with  w
the spot where the brigade was gathering; pre- and noiseless steps towards the rendezvous, thetread
Dawson was a bigger humbug than ever, and of a sentinel was distinctly heard, warning them
the time was rapidly approaching when he would to silence and prudence. It was now necessa-
maei  pett    h   hl    ol.           ry that they should leave the open field, and
make it apparent to the whole world."r                           the surrounding wood.
During the march to Rocky Creek, Frank bad advance under cover of  the sening wood
a conversation with James Adair (Mary's They did so, stopping when the sentinel walked
brother), and endeavored to learn something towards them while going his rounds, and pro-
more about the Quaker, but signally failed. ceeding when he went in a contrary direction.
Adair professed to have no knowledge of the   They proceeded very well in this manner,
eccentric Job; but though he felt, apparently, when an unlooked for event came near render-
no interest in that singular individual, he seem- ing their attempt abortive. They came sud-
edto experience considerable enjoyment in talk- denly upon another sentinel, who was leaning
ing about Rose Forstall, though he approached against a tree, motionless as the tree itself.
the subject, at first, with some delicacy ; but as Forstall and his companion stopped, expecting
b'rank referred frequently to Ruth Strickland, to be hailed, or instantly fired upon ; but he
and spoke enthusiastically of her high qualities still remained motionless.
of head and heart, as well as her personal per-  "He is aleep," whispered  Henderson.
fections, he became less reserved, and the name " We're undiscovered. Let us move to the
of Rose was oftener spoken.                left.-softly-softly, my lad."
Marion issued orders that silence should be  The parties passed on, leaving the faithless
strictly observed as they approached Rocky sentinel to finish his nap, and soon had a fine
Creek. Within two miles of the story rendez- view of the loyal rendezvous.
vous the brigade halted, waited till midnight, " Now we have them before us, observed
and then moved on again with increasing cau- Henderson, "and a me  set of fellows they
tion. Upon reaching the wood, that nearly seem to be."
surrounded the field where the unsuspecting "Eating, drinking, and smoking, sai
loyalists were gathered, concocting plans for Frank.                    to be in abun-
future operations, the general disposed his men  "Yes, and everything seemsbe  in  an-
in equal numbers on-each side of the open space dance. I can see a large number of horses,and
by which the spot was accessible. These move- yonder is an officer of rank-Colonel Ferguson,
ments, though executed within a few hundred probably," added Henderson.
yards of the loyalists, produced no alarm, so  "And that man near him is Cyrus Dia,
perfect was the discipline of Marion's men. doubtless, the same mentioned by Miss Mar-
The general spoke with all the officers, and en- tin," returned Forstall.iI
joined upon t em implicit obedience to orders, " A little to the right of the two officer, I
and to see that the arms of every man were in observe a tent with a guad stationed round it."
readiness for use. When everything had been '"There are prisoners in the tent, perhaps,"
arranged according to the wishes of the celebra- said Frank.


78                   MARION'S BRIGADE.

" Hush !" whispered his companion, pressing
Forstall's arm. The man I take to be Colone
Ferguson, and the other whom you suppose to b
Dix, are approaching us."
"We must move away," replied Frank.
" Not yet-let them come-we may perhaps
hear what they are conversing about," added
Henderson.
"It is dangerous, but I will be guided by
you."
"Down-down upon the ground--close-
close as you can lie ! They're coming nearer
than I could wish ; but never mind, we'll trust
to luck."
Forstall and Henderson, sunk to the earth,
and lay prone and still; while Ferguson and
Dix advanced until within a few yards of them,
conversing diligently.
" I think the plan will do very well," re-
marked Ferguson.
"I certainly hope so, colonel, for I am great-
ly attached to the girl," replied Dix.
"You could not probably appear in a more
interesting character than that of a benefactor,"
added the officer.
"V hery  true, colonel; for  Kate Martin
idolizes her father," said Dix.
" You have only to step forward then, at the
proper. moment and befriend him, to win her
eternal gratitude, if you have not already se-
cured her esteem," replied Ferguson. " The
affair may *be very well managed in this way.
In the morning you can repair to Mr. Martin's,
seemingly ignorant that the peace of the family
has in any way been disturbed. You will be-
come indignant when you hear the story from
the rosy lips of your enchantress, and mouth
some pretty round oaths to give your anger
reality. In the midst of your virtuous fury,
you will hear the bugles of my detachment, and
upon looking from the window, will see me pass-
ing the house with my prisoner seated on horse-
back in the midst of us, securely guarded. In
a moment you rush from the dwelling, and un-
sheathing your sword, plant yourself in the road

g directly before us, and swear by all that is
1 great and praiseworthy, that we shall ride over
e your body, if we advance, unless we release
the prisoner without harming his sacred person."
" Wont something; like this do?" said Dix,
s drawing his weapon with a theatrical flourish.
" Hold ! forbear-if ye be men ! In the name
of justice and humanity, release that venerable
man ! Hold,1say!"
"Very good," replied the colonel; and then
both -laughed immoderately.  "I, of Bourse,
will release the rebel; the daughter will fall at
your feet, and invoke all manner of. blessings
upon your magnanimous soul; then she is yours
for life."
" Excellent ! excellent !" cried Cyrus Dix,
in great glee.  "I must rehearse my part a few
times."
"Infernal rascal !" muttered Henderson,
between his teeth.
"Hold ! forear-in the king's name /"
exclaimed Dix, going through with his part
again, and once more indulging in a burst of
boisterous laughter.
We'll show you some acting more effectual
than that, my fine fellow !" said Forstall, in a
whisper.
" The surest way to a damsel's heart is to
play the hero," resumed Ferguson; "and you
will certainly appear a real one-a Christian,
philanthropist, and soldier, all combined."
The parties now turned and walked from the
spot where Forstall and Henderson were con-
cealed, Dix occasionally stopping to go through
with his part of the projected farce ; an opera-
tion that did not fail to provoke a fresh burst
of merriment.
"It's time for us to be going," said Hender-
son, in an agitated voice, when the colonel and
his companion had passed. from hearing. - "I
have heard and seen enough."   .
The two young men arose and returned to
the brigade, with the observance of the same
cautiousness that had characterized their going
forth.

4

,
n
,;
.,

I

1)

CHAPTER XVIL
THE CONFLICT-THE MAN OF PEACE IN AN AMBIYSOUS POSITION.-     .
ORSTALL related to the general in as " Were I to hazard an opinion on that sub-
at    manner as possi- jeet, I should say it would be advisable to ad-
ble, what he had seen and heard ; while Hen- vance one or two companies to commence the
derson stood by with sullen brow, biting his attack, while the rest remain here as a reserve,
neth r  li   wi h  im atie ce.and    take  as  m any  prisoners ' as  possible ;,  for
-Ieercepivh observed Marion with a smile, many will, no doubt, attempt to escape in this
"that our friend Henderson is burning to chas- direction," replied Frank, modestly.
tise. Dix for liis audacity in aspiring to the  "-That's my own opnon," return that
hand of the peerless Kate."                 general. "I had already resolved upon
"aHe's such a hypocritical scoundrel, gen- course."n                  e to the ranks
eral 1" exclaimed Henderson.                  Forstall and Henderson return
" And Kate Martin is sofair," added Mari- and Captain Hawes's company, and a part of
on, playfully.                              Captain Logan's, were selected to make the
"And heroic, remarked Forstall.         first attack upon the loyalists. Captain Nick
She's both," said Henderson.    " She's was highly pleased with this arrangement. Un-
fairer than the stars that gem the night; as sheathing their sabres, the men moved forward,
gentle as the softest zephyr that ever blew over headed by General Marion, in person.
charmed sea; as heroic as the Grecian maid- When the detachment had crossed the brook,
of the ds    I confess, without a blush, a momentary halt was ordered, and the leader
tha I worship at the shrine of her perfections." addressed a few words of encouragement tohis
"Spoken like a man and soldier !" exclaim- brave followers. He reminded them of what
edMro,- amy     " The young lady is cer- they had already accomplished, and  h   n
tainly a paragon of beauty, and a model of fluence thei galath aoconduct- was exercising
heroism. And now, gentlemen, how would you gthruhot South Cdarcina .pl and  hnain
advise us to attack. those merry rascals, yon- 'whies'   i s tCancin'uptawn in
der '?"wiprdHgistCatiNck

1


80                MARION'S BRIGADE.

" He means to disgrace himself," said th
captain.
"Let each man do his best," added Marion
"and in ten minutes our enemies will be flying
from the field, or fertilizing it with their blood.'
Marion's eyes sparkled with animation, an
his sword flashed in the pale beams of the new
ly risen moon. Touching his horse with hi:
armed heel, he bent forward in the saddle, and
his noble charger shot away towards the camp
fires of the enemy, followed by stern and reso
lute men, who feared not thebrunt of battle, nor
the thunder of war.
" Come on, you tarnals!"    cried Hawes.
"Give it to 'em unspeakable. Make 'em think
all natur has busted, and chaos has come agin,
knocking' all temporary consarns into eternal
smash. Rare up ! swing your cuttin' instru-
ments !"
- Frank Forstall noticed as they swept on, that
quiet Job Dawson was in his place beside Ben
Rowan;   his great horse was snorting   and
plunging, and champing the steel bit, as if im-
patient to mingle in the melee.
" What a furious beast !" remarked Frank
to Ben.
"Just sich another humbug as his rider !"
returned Rowan, tartly.
Mark his arching neck and his fiery eyes !"
exclaimed Forstall.
"Bah !" was the not very flattering res-
ponse of the irascible boxer.
During this time, Dawson sat easily and
gracefully in his saddle, his monster sabre swing-
ing at his side.
"If you don't intend to fight, Mr. Dawson,
there's still a chance for you to get from the
ranks," said Forstall.
I am a man of peace," replied Job, " but
the man Francis hath commanded me to go up
to battle, and I go as a sheep to the slaughter,
and as a lamb dumb before the shearer."
There was no time for farther conversation,
for they were now close upon the tory rendez-
vous, and their speed had increased to a wild
and furious gallop. Marion's terrible war-cry
rang out with startling energy upon the air :

e Liberty or Death ! It fell upon the ears of the
royalists like a dread summons to the eternal
, world.  They sprang towards their horses, but
g before half of them were in the saddle, Marion
had reached them   and blasted their forming-
I ranks like the destroying lightnings of heaven.
- Those heavy sabres came down, cleaving skulls,
s hewing bodies with frightful gashes, and lop-
I ping off limbs. Loud cries of terror, dreadful
- wails of agony, fiendish yells of rage, the clash-
- ing of swords, the discharge of fire-arms, and the'
thunder of horses' hoofs, shook the field of con-
flict.  Ferguson shouted to his dragoons to
rally around him and disperse the rebels; some
heard and attempted to obey, while many sought
safety in flight.
Forstall had resolved to mark the bearing of
those about him in the hour of battle, especially-
of Dawson and Henderson. The latter, he now
saw galloping from one part of the field to
another in search of Cyrus Dix. As for Daw-
son, he had kept near him until they had charg-
ed through the enemy, at which time he ob-
served that his mammoth steed was in advance
of all-others, and growing more furious every
moment; but the rider was still self-possessed.
Ben Rowan perceived that the Quaker was
foremost, and resolving not to be outdone, spur-
red madly after hiin, and Frank imitated his
example.
Ferguson's dragoons had hastily formed in
the rear of the broken line ; their muskets now
bristled in the faces of Captain Logan's com-
pany, and Job Dawson seemed rushing madly
upon their gleaming points.
Forstall wondered whether he saw them, or
whether his horse was urging him on against
his will. He saw Job grasp his sabre, and rise
in his stirrups ; the next moment a sheet of
flame, and a stream of lead leaped from the
ranks of Ferguson's dragoons, and Dawson was
enveloped in smoke and hidden from view.
Frank involuntarily exclaimed "poor Job,"
and never expected to see him again ; but the
stern and bloody work before him now engaged
all his attention, for Ferguson's men made an
obstinate resistance.

i
}
S
3,
f
it
3
1
1
r}

i

The next glimpse which he caught of Daw- was placed in a tent, andhaving taken what in,
son, revealed him fighting desperately over Ben bar-room parlance,wmight be termed a pretty
Rowan, whose horse had fallen, and he was "stiff glass" of whiskey, his spirits began to
struggling to extricate himself. A half-dozen revive again. While he was reflecting pro-
dragoons had closed around him to despatch foundlyson the recent occurrences, Forstalland
him with their swords and bayonets.        Henderson entered, and were soon after follow-
Job Dawson's horse pressed furiously among ed by Job Dawson and James Adair. The
the eager dragoons, kicking, rearing and plung- light of the blazing fire as it flitted over the
ing, until he planted his mighty body directly former's features, revealed no change in his ap-
over Rowan's fallen steed, and laying back his pearance. The eye wasstill mild, the expres-
ears, snorting and shaking his mane, he was sion about the mouth gentle, and his bearing he bowedto
almost as much an object of terror as Job him- quierta anunobtrse.  Whene  bowedtin
self, whose sabre beat down levelled bayonets, Forstall and Henderson, therewas smile that lingered
and circling swords, and sheathed itself in pal- strangely fascinatinghsm
pitating flesh.                           'for an instant about his lips.
pt Inexplicable man !" cried Forstall, as he  Ben Rowan he did not seem to notice ashe
pressed his own foaming horse to the side of the came in, but bending his tall form he passed to
Quaket ; others followed, and the fight raged the most obscure corner of the tent, and upon
over Ben Rowan's head; but the proud, de- out unbuckling his sabre, threw himself upon
fiant breast of the mammoth horse, and Daw- the ground. The boxer looked steadily in
son's terrible sabre, protected him from instant another direction for a time, and then gradually
death by sword or bayonet.                  changing his position, began to cast furtive
"Straighten up, you tarnal critters ! Strike glances at the Quaker. It would have been ex-
,rd, I tell you!" shouted Captain Nick, and ceedingly difficult to analyze the expression of
the "Fire Eaters " burst upon those who yet Ben's face at that precise phase in is existence.
resisted, in smoke and in flame. Ferguson gave Both Forstall and Henderson mentally deter-
way, and Marion's reservethundering into ac- mined that no reason to what was passing within
tion, the brief battle became a total route on arrived at in regard tud wh wa blang witing
the part of the tories. The shrill voice of by attempting to studyerec ao blan lokig
as heard calling on the fugitives to countenance. If any inference could be possi-
surrender, some threw down their arms and bly drawn, it was that Rowan's ideas had been
complied, and others kept on, were overtaken thrown into inextricable confusion, and could
and cut down.                              not be formed. again in order. Frank also eon-
i Forestall paused an instant and looked over fessed himself singularly mystified in regard to
the field; John Henderson was still galloping Job Dawson          of the last hourI find
madly from place to place, vainly seeking Cyrus "After the excitement  o hedesto
Dix.                                        it impossible to sleep," said Henerso n
In this engagement many prisoners were      "I labor under a similar state of feeling,"
made; several stand of arms, and quite a num- replied Frank. 'htided the
ber of horses changed hands. Mr. Martin was   "Let us walk in the open air,"a
restored to liberty, and Dix was spared the first speaker. aassentedand
trouble of acting in the comedy of the hero.  To this proposal Forstall readily
After the brief contest was ended, a strong they left the tent."
gand was set, and the victors encamped on the - These, poor fellows sleep soundly enough,"
field where the stirring scenes of the action had reiarked Henderson, pointing to several inani-
tr     re. ti                            moh a te bodies that lay hacked and mutilated upon
transpired.
Ben Rowan, considerably bruised by his fall, the ground.

MARION'S BRIGADE.


MARION'S BRIGADE.

" The tumult of life has passed, and I hope
it is well with them now," returned Frank.
"I most fervently hope so," answered Hen-
derson. The parties paused a moment beside
some bodies that had been shockingly crushed
by horses' feet.
"Is it not lamentable that the passions of
men work out such accomplished horrors as
these ?" said Forstall.
"Lamentable indeed; and yet war has pre-
vailed in all countries, and in all ages of which
we have any history."
" Very true," said a voice near them; "and
yet you would not argue that the fact furnishes
us any excuse or justification for the barbarous
practices of war?"
Henderson turned towards the speaker and
recognized Mr. Martin.
"You are right, reverend sir ; I would not,"
"I find it impossible to content myself here
until the morning," added the pastor. "It
may not be perfectly safe to attempt to return,

home ; but I know my friends are deeply and
sleeplessly anxious for-my safety."
"I can very well understand the nature of
your feelings," said Henderson ; "yet I doubt
whether you could safely return to the settle.
meant at this hour, for you might possibly fall
into the hands of some of our loyalist friends
again, in which event, I fear you would fare
worse than in the first instance"
"There is a small foot-path through the
woods to the settlement, which I can find, I
doubt not, and which is but half the distance of
the usual way ; by following that, I do not think
I shall incur much risk," returned Martin.
" If you are resolved to go, I will accompany
you," said Henderson.
"And I also," added Frank.
Mr. Martin expressed his gratitude for these
kind offers, and the 'parties immediately set
out for the settlement. After some searching,
the foot-path was discovered, and the glimmer-
ing moonlight guided them on their way.

I

E.;
.L

SHALL be sure to inform Mrs. Martin and Dix and Ferguson. The worthy man was
Kate, that your sabre severed my bands,- greatly shocked at the narration, and appeared
and your lips told me that I was no longer a deeply grateful that such artful villany had been
prisoner," said the pastor.                 frustrated.
Had the features of Henderson been seen dis-  The parties passed through the wood without
tinetly at- that moment, we doubt not but it accident, and the pastor's residence was soon in
would have been observed that his color was view.  A horse was fastened near the door, and
much heightened. The thought of having his bright lights gleamed from within.
name favorably mentioned in the presence of    "Rather a late hour for visitors," remarked ,
Kate, caused his brave heart to expand with Mr. Martin.  " But I think I know the horse.
pleasure.                                   Eaves-dropping will be no sin, I imagine, in
"The credit is dui. to General Marion and this instance ; let us approach without noise and
the brigade," he answered, modestly, with some listen," he added.
hesitation.               .                   The pastor's suggestion was acted'upon, and
Cyrus  Dixad you e   h m   oin  the  strife'2 of the  trio  walked  forward  and  placed  them selves
Cyrus Dix ? Did you see hm                  near the windows from whence the light was
I  id not; but I would to heaven that     reflected. Henderson appeared to have some
haI did not ;enderson, e tly,           vague idea of what was transpiring within, and
had," replied Henderson, earnestly.         wa     ido      iio    a  hr;frh         a
" Our gallant companion sought the loyalist what kind of a visitor was there; for he was
Ourte aaeland nervous.
in every part of the field," remarked Forsall; quite pale and nervous.
"and-had he found him, his career of hypocrisy  The voice of Cyrus Dixwas distinctly heard.
would have closed forever."                 He was talking earnestly.
Frank then related to Mr. Martin the pur-   "We havgjbeen terribly cut up," he said.
port of the conversation they had heard between " Marion has made a sweep at us, and scatter-

82

CHAPTER XVIII.
DIX OBTAINS KATE'S OPINION.-MARY VIDEAU.


MARION'S BRIGADE.

ed and withered our fellows like autumn
leaves."
"I heard the sound of musketry not long
ago," replied Kate, calmly.
" The idea has occurred to me, Kate Martin,
that we were betrayed. I have had within the
last hour strong suspicions."
." And of whorm, Captain Dix ?" asked Kate.
"Of you," he answered emphatically.
"What a strange idea," said Kate, quietly.
" Yes, we have been betrayed ; we have
been routed ; we have been hacked to pieces !"
exclaimed Dix, walking across the floor, greatly
excited, and stamping his foot to give emphasis
to his remarks.
"You do not seem.to be hacked seriously,"
remarked Kate.
"If I knew that you had fooled me !" re-
turned Dix, striking his fist violently upon the
table near which he happened to stand at that
instant.
"Do you know anything of the fate of my
husband ?" asked Mrs. Martin..
He's at liberty, long before this time,"
muttered Dix, appending some kind of a strange
oath in a still lower tone.
"If I remember rightly, Captain Dix," re-
sumed Kate, accenting the title which she al-
most invariably affixed to the tory's name, " you
said something about your power to protect my
father."
"I did intend to do so, and my plans were
all arranged," was the reply.
" They were indeed, as I can bear witness,"
whispered Henderson.
"Your Tromise was broken, for he came near
being murdered by the ruffians who came to
tear him from his home, last night, by your or-
ders, doubtless," remarked Mrs. Martin.
" What do: you intend to. do now, all your
plans having so signally failed ?" inquired
Kate.
"Rally again--rally again ; what else can
be done?"       ,
" Marion's Brigade will be sure to find you,"
observed Mrs. Martin.

Dix replied by invoking a heavy curse upon
the heads of Marion's dragoons. .
"Kate," he said, abruptly, after a short
silence, "you know my feelings towards you,
and I desire before I leave you, to know some-
thing more of yours towards me.'
"What, before my mother ?" said Kate, in
a playful voice.
"She has been young-,-the ways of youth-
ful damsels are well known to her," replied
Dix. "Time, presses, Kate ; I am  expecting
to hear every moment the sound of Marion's
dragoons."
" It were wrong to keep you waiting to hear
a silly girl express her sentiments," rejoined
Kate, "but I will speak them   in part, that
your departure may be instant, and that we may
understand each other in all future time. My
feelings towards you-"  Kate paused.
"Don't be timid," said Dix, encouragingly.
"You can whisper it in my ear, if you will. I
only desire to know on what terms we are to
meet hereafter."
"My feelings towards you," returned Kate,
I do not fear to speak aloud and openly. I
do consider you, without any exception, the
most contemptible villain I ever met with."
Kate uttered these words with a vehemence.
that left no doubt on the minds of her hearers
of her perfect sincerity.
The tory remained mute and motionless;
surprise.had stricken him a heavy blow. So
deep was the silence that prevailed for a moment
within; that the listeners could distinctly hear
the monotonous ticking of the clock, on the'
mantle.
" I believe the rascal is annihilated,"..re-
marked Forstall, in a whisper.
" Who wouldn't be, to hear such a sentence
pronounced upon him from such lips," returned
Henderson.
"Cheated-deceived-fooled!" gasped Dix,
faintly, " By heavens, this crushes me-it cuts
like Marion's sabres. A thousand withering
maledictions on woman's infernal arts !"
"You' should have known me better than to
attempt to wimimy esteem by creeping hypocrisy.

MARION'S

I detest your person, your conduct, and your c
cause;" retorted Kate,                    ' t
"My daughter's sentiments are also mine," l
said Mrs. Martin. " And now that you know
us, I trust that we shall see your face no more." t
" I'm unnerved--the pang is sharp-but it n
is but momentary !" exclaimed. Dix, struggling t
to gain control of his feelings. "You have t
fooled me cruelly, but I will remember it--I t
will triumph yet !"       -a
'' Just rehearse a few words of the part he c
was to act on this very spot," whispered Mr. o
Martin to Henderson.                         t
"A capital idea," said Forstall.
"Is it not best to capture him ?" asked Hen- i
derson.-
"By all means; we will rush in immediately t
after you have gone through with the pretty lit=,
fle speech he was to make before Ferguson's
dragoons," rejoined Frank.                   1
"Though cut up and scattered, our courage
is not broken," resumed Dix.     " We shall t
gather again in greater numbers, and then you 1
shall'feel my power."
Dix gave greater emphasis to these words by
striking his foot upon the floor.
" Hold-forbear-in the king's name ! for
the sake of humanity !" shouted Henderson, in.
a voice highly tragical and effective.
The parties stared with surprise. . Cyrus Dix
recoiled to the wall and glared, fiercely around
him.  But there' was no time to waste ; for
steps were heard without, and the latch was
hurriedly lifted. Dix instantly leaped through
a window, shivering sash and glass, and by 'the
time Henderson and Forstall gained the middle
of the room, he was heard galloping away.
"The bird has flown, gentlemen," said the
pastor, with a smile.
".This is indeed a pleasant surprise 1" ex-
claimed Mrs. Martin.'
"But a surprise, nevertheless," cried Kate,
embracing her father.
Forstall was instantly introduced to the ladies,
and Hendersonvwarmly greeted by them. Frank
confessed to himself that the pastor's  daughter
was exceedingly fair.  After a few moments of
6

84

" t
;,
;r.,
w
f,
ro
"
'; v..
i
:
s
r.

BRIGADE.                                  85
onversation, such as the exciting condition of
things naturally suggested, our two friends took
eave and returned to the camp.
The following day the Brigade marched back
o Lynch's Creek. The name of Marion had
ow become a terror to evil doers, and began
o be spoken of with admiration in all parts of
he country, while he received daily accessions
o his numbers. Hisdaring deeds excited the
attention of the Royal army, and the British
ommander perceived that it was necessary, in
rder to the final subjugation of South Carolina,
hat his career should be stopped.
About this period flaming proclamations were
issued, full of dire invectives against those who
continued rebellious, and seming with promises
to those who submitted humbly to British usur-
pation. Those capable of bearing arms, who
would not hasten to the royal standard, were to
be imprisoned, and their property confiscated;
and every militia man who had borne arms with
them, and afterwards joined the patriots, was
to be immediately hanged, if eptured.
In consequence of these documents, many
persons were put to death, and many families
deprived of their substance. - But acts of this
nature provoked the suffering people beyond
endurance, an compelled many to arms with'
the firm determination to conquer or perish on
the field of battle. Men stung to madness by
wrong and injustice made excellent soldiers,
and with such leaders as Marion, Sumter, Me-
Clure and Davies, could not fail to give a bright-
er aspect to the cause of freedom.
The British arms being victorious at Charles-
ton and Camden, and British posts being estab-
lished in various sections of the country, it was
vastly easy for the tories to show their might,
and manifest their deadly hostility to the whigs.
It was but a few days after till Cunningham's
defeat before he was again at the head of a des-
perate band of cut-throats, committing cruelties
at which the heart of decent humanity revolts.
But the "Bloody Scout," learning a little wis-
dom from past punishments, was cautious in its
movements, fearing lest' Marion should 'surprise
and cut them in pieces, in some unexpected
moment.

f
i
ti


86

MAX ION'S BRIGADE.

One evening,'a few days after the affair at
Booky Creek, a negro riding a fiery horse was
brought into camp by the sergeant of the guard.
He refused to tell his business to any one, but
obstinately persisted to see General Marion.
When conducted to the presence of that officer
he shook his head and looked at him incred-
ulously.
"This is the general," said the sergeant.
"Dat am doubtful!" muttered the African,
in a low voice. "Dey say he am mighty great
man."
"Hush, youfool! not great in person but in
deeds," whispered, the sergeant.      ,
"This colored fellow says he has something
to communicate," aided the latter, touching
his cap, aitd addressing Marion.
4"If you is de gin'ral, he hab communicated
de nature ob de circumstance," said Cuffee,
bdwing, and doffing his hat.-
"I am; what have you to say, my lad?" re-
joined Marion, in his 'usual mild and affable
manner.
The negro hesitated, and seemed to be still
in doubt.
" Dis chile am bery particerler,"kaae de'ti mes
am bery vicarious," he stammered.
"Who sent you, sir?" inquired the general,
somewhat sharply.
a Beryfine missus-one great'lady, massa,"
was the reply..    ,
"Ahi a;lady in the case.   Well, I like
that," observed Marion, pleasantly.
"I am de post office as she sent dis writin'
by," added the negro, displaying letter.
" Is it directed to me'?" said the general.
Am Francis de ntial ob your fuss name
co tinued Cuffee, cautiously.,
" It is," returned the general, with a smile.
"And does de letters ob yqur last name be-
gin wid a great M, and end ,wid a little n and
a flourish?" continued the negro.
"Exaotly," answered the general.
-"And finally, massea, does de initial of dis
plaoe begin wid Lynch's Creek, and a pot hook
you could 'hang your hat on?" added Cuflee,"
with inreasing confidence.    -

"You have described it precisely," exclaimed
ie general, good naturedly.
" Den it am all right. I hab de honor.to
present is writing' to ,General Marion, who am
arter do royalists and de crown ob England, like
de footsteps) ob death when' he takes arter de
poor plantation niggers."
Marion took the letter and glanced at the
superscription. The letter was written in an
elegant hand, and the chirography obviously
that of a female.
" This is, from a fair lady, then," he said,
musingly.
"Her eyes am like de stars dat lumernate de
cannister of heben," remarked the negro, poet.
ically.  -
"Indeed !". replied Marion, mechanically,
opening the'letter-
" It am faek, and dis ehile know ob British
ossifers as tink it am a privilege to kiss anyting
her white.land hab touched," added the negro,,
apparently not a little shocked and displeased
at the irreverent manner' with which he broke
the seal of the neatly folded missive. U
Without heeding Cufee's last remark, the
general proceeded to examine the contents of
the' letter. It was dated at " Nelson's Ferry,"
and read as follows :-
- I " GENERAL MARION :--The wanton barbar-
ities practised in this and the adjoining districts,
by Cunningham   and his ruthless band,' impel
me to address one who has proved himself so
ready and so able to punish the.crimes of our
sleepless and ever vigilant enemies. The in.
habitants of this community are filled with un..}
utterable dismay, for no one knows how soon it
may be his,- (or her) destiny to suffer in this
cause. The loyalists triumph;over us, and our'
ears are daily-shocked with some new tale of
woe. We look to you for sid, and feel assured
we shall not be disappointed.  The name of .
your gallant Brigade is already a word to make
our oppressors grow pale, and let we add that
your deeds are lauded by the fair lips of your
cbuntrywomen. The brave are generous, and
the first to rebuke wickedness and injustice.
Believe me, sir, our hearts will beat with joy

V'

I'

MARION'S BRIGADE.

87

when we hear the bugles of your invincible   When the general had perused this missive,
Brigade. While the namie of Marion is remem- he dismissed the negro, and sent orders for Job
bered with respect : and crowned with honor, Dawson to come to his tent.
that of Cunningham will be loaded with obloquy,
and associated with the blackest infamy.
With esteem,       MAnY VIDEAU.."*.

,
, .
''may t Y
},il'
,
A
.tY r
.}
'f    "
F
. =  +
1  nyqyy
.                 ',     '  . A )V ,,
F         ii  :
K
ik  ,'
:

CHAPTER XIX.
FORSTALL AND HENDERSON wITH THE TORIES--ELDAD TEWKSBURY.
-

' T was quite late in the evening when Ben
Rowan . touched Frank Forstall on the
shoulder, and told him that General Marion de-
sired his presence.0
Our hero instantly complied with the sum-
mons, and as he entered the tent, met Job'
Dawson going out. 'rank found the general
absorbed in thought, and an open letter lying
beside him.
"I have selected you," said Marion,,after a
moment of silence, " to perform a duty attended
with considerable danger."
Forstall bowed, and the general went on.
"Should you consider the undertaking too
difficult and perilous, you are at liberty to de-
-line it altogether."
"I' accept it beforehand,, unconditionally,
and without explanation," replied the young
man.
"I did not estimate your courage and spirit
too highly, I perceive," resumed Marion, "and
I will come to the point at once.   I wish to
know what the tories are doing on the Pedee,
* After the war, a lady of wealth, who "lovedhim
for the dangers he had passed," disclosed.the state of
her affections to some persons, who were the mutual
friends of either party, and Marion being made-aware
of the impression he had made upon theheart of. this
lady, solicited her hand, and was accepted. The
name of the lady was Miss Mary Videau,,whose an-
cestors, like his own, were-among the luugaenots that
sought liberty of conscience on the shores of America,
being denied that inestimable privilege in the land of
their birth--Life of Marion.

at Britton's Neck, and below there. Do you
think that you can, by any means, obtain this
information ?"    -
"I can try," answered Forstall, firmly.
"And I doubt not you will succeed; but
should the enterprise end tragically, I am sure
I should deeply regret it,".said Marion.
' I know the punishment due' to a spy, gen-
eral, but I am ready to.incur the peril. Should
I prove, unfortunate, and return ho more, I
only ask to be remembered as one who tried to
do his duty.".
" That I can safely promise in such an event;
but I hope for a happier termination of the
affair. I wish, if you find it practicable, to
learn what Gainey, Ferguson, Wemyss, and
other story leaders are doing, and are contem-
plating to do. If you fail, and the worst be-
falls, you, my brigade will nobly avenge your
death. Adopt such a disguise as you think
best, and may a kind providence keep you
from harm, and return yo- ?afe to camp again."
Having expressed his perfect willingness to.
'serve his country in- any capacity, Forstal -
withdrew, and made immediate arrangements to
fulfil the wishes of his commander. While mak-
ing preparations-to perform the hazardous duty
assigned him, it is possible he thought of Ruth
Strickland,, and entertained a hope that ,ia
should see her during his absence from the
brigade.

E"

r                                              ,
,T


88                   MARION'S BRIGADE.

"Are you going to leave us ?" asked James
Adair.
For a time," replied Forstall.
"If you should see Rose," said the young
man,   tell her that-that--"
Adair could not very well get any farther for
some reason-
Yes, I '1 tell her that," answered Frank,
smiling.
You '11 oblige me," stammered Adair.
"And what should I-say to Mary, if I should
happen to see her ?' -continued Frank.
"Inform her that the last time I saw Lewis
Hawthorne, he was well," added Adair, quickly.
" Lewis Hawthorne again," thought Frank.
"I wonder who he is," and was about to ask
respecting him, but Adair was gone. -
Just as Frank was putting his foot into the
stirrup, to mount his horse, he was addressed
by Henderson.
Not so fast, Mr. Forstall !" he exclaimed.
"I have seen the general, and am to go with
you. .
"yThat is good news, indeed, for a long, and
perilous ride was before me."
But a short time elapsed before the two young
men were riding away from " Lynch's Creek"
towards the Pedep. The night had set in dark
and rainy, and the prospect before them was by
no means a pleasant one. The parties pro-
ceeded several miles on their way without meet-
ing with any adventure worthy of notice, but
were not destined to be so fortunate as to reach
Britton's Neck without incident.
They were going forward at a respectable
speed, when they unexpectedly overtook half a
dozen men on foot, armed with muskets. ' Had
they seen them a moment sooner, they could
have avoided them; but it was too late to do so
without exciting suspicion.  The men stopped
and faced about. - Forstall and 'Heniderson ad-
vanced boldly, trusting to their own resources
to free them from the, .difficulty, should they
prove to be loyalists.               .
"Who comes here ?" cried one of the men,
while they all 'assumed hostile attitudes.
Friends, I hope," replied Henderson.

"That 's onsartin," was the gruff rejoinder.
"I suppose that we might put the same ques-
tion to you that you have proposed to us," said
Forstall.
" Prehaps you might, mister ; but as we hap-
pen to be the strongest party, we can have it
pooty much our own way, I take it," returned
one of the party, insolently.
Forstall reflected an instant, and then replied.
"Perhaps, my lads, we are peaceably dis-
posed people, minding our own business, with-
out intending harm to anybody ; and perhaps
we are going to meet some of the king's men
somewhere. What have you to say to'that ?"
The men now conferred with each other amo-
ment, in low voices.
"Are you king's men ?" they asked, at
length.
"If you insist on knowing," said Henderson,
bolkly, "we ire going to join Major Gainey
somewhere on the Pedee."
"I thought so," said one of the men to 'his
comrades.  " They appeared to me like king's
men from the first.'
"Now as we have been frank with you, we
would ke to know whether we are dealing with
friends or foes," added Henderson, laying his
hand on his sword.
We're of the right sort ; so make yourselves
easy. We're going to join Major Wemyss,
who has been enlisting men on Black River, but
is now working up towards the Catawba. When
he gets his complement of men, he 's going to
co-operate with Colonel Tarleton' in driving Ma-
rion out of the country."
"That will be a welcome event to all true
loyalists," remarked Forstall.
"It will, indeed," replied one of the tories;
"and it is an event which will soon take place."
"They say Marion and his men are ragged,
cowardly vagabonds, who can't stand a regular
charge of disciplined troops," said another.
"Wemyss and Tarleton will soon burst on
him like a clap of thunder," added a third.
-" Gainey, I understand, is near Britton's
Neck," observed Henderson, by way of a
feeler.

MARION'S BRIGADE.                                      89
"About four miles below," was the unhesi- tory bands, their numbers, locality, &amp;e. ; and
tating reply, which convinced both Forstall and some of the information thus obtained was -of
Henderson that he spoke the truth.          considerable importance.
"He 's a terrible fellow, but they say he 's  " I wonder," said Forstall, abruptly, "what
dead in love, notwithstanding," added . the will be done with all the rebel prisoners taken
loyalist,                                   at the battle of Camden; formy part, I am at
"Is it possible that he is entrapped at last ?" 'a loss to know what can be done with them ?"
rejoined Forstall, with af'ected indifference.  "Two hundred of 'em  are on the way to
" yes ;* it 's common talk among our peo- Charleston, under a guard of ninety British sob
Ple. The gal's a whig."                     diers," replied the loyalist, who had been the
Whojgs she ?"                          most talkative.
"One of Strickland's gals, up,-to Britton's  Frank's heart beat high with hope and ex-
Neck. Her father was at the battle of Cam- pectation, when he heard this announcement ;
den, and was'takenri3onerg"      --         for possibly Mr. Strickland was among the pri-
There 's love on bothsides, I suppose ?" soners; if so, there was a strong probability
continued Frank.                            that something might be done to set him at
" Not a bit of it ; but that don't daunt hin. liberty.
I know very well what he intends to do."     "That is an excellent idea !' exclaimed For-
"What do you think'?"          -          stall.  " I dare say they will pass Nelson's Fer-
"Why, sometime he 'll send up a detach- ry on the way."
meant of men, and march the gal away."          "I know they will, for I heard Capt. Ball
"" Cunningham is in the vicinity of Nelson's say so," was the reply.
Ferry, doing a brave business," remarked'Hen- "Have you got anything to drink, boys ?"
person.                                     inquired Henderson, carelessly.
"He 's exactly in the same fix that the ma-  "We 've got pooty amazin' low in that point
jor is, only more so," returned the -loquacious o' view ; there aint a gill o' rum  among us,"
tory.                                       said the story.
'Love is always at his tricks," said Hender-  " Well, my hearties, I've got a little of the
son, with a sigh.                           real stuff in this canteen ; so take a swig all
" Perhaps you've heerd of the Adairs, stran- round, and we '11 be off," rejoined Henderson.
ger?"                              /IThe canteen was passed quickly from one to
S Often."                                the other, and   the quality of its contents
"Well, it 's John Adair's darter that the praised.
colonel's arter ; and she 's a full-blooded rebel.  Our two friends then wished them a " good
What 's more, the love 's all on his side. But night," and rode forward, glad to shake them
he'll et over the difficulty some way or an- off, and gratified by the valuable information
other ; in the same way, perhaps, that the ma- which they had so unexpectedly obtained.
jor will."                                     "Since we parted with tjiose fellows," said
This conversation, which was carried on as Forstall, after they had ridden some distance,
they moved slowly forward, was, as the reader " I have thought of a plan by which I may not
will perceive, deeply interesting to Forstall. only benefit our cause generally, if I succeed,
It aroused his indignation to, hear the name of but also gratify a desire of my own, of a more
Ruth Strickland mentioned in such a con- private nature. -It is to ride boldly toward
nection-                                    Camden, and meet the prisoners that are on the
Henderson now plied the tories with ques- way to Charleston."
tions, until he had extorted all they knew in re- - " But what will ensure your personal safe-
lation to the movements of the different preda- ty'?" said Henderson.

I


90

MARION'S.- BRIGADE.

"I will confidently assert, when questioned, long and tangled, his face decidedly verdant in
that I am going to Camden to join the forces expression, and his bearing far from dignified.
under Cornwallis."                         le'stalked in among the loyalists with an old,
"That may answer your purpose, and it may rusty sword by his side ; horse-pistols of the
not; it is a'bold measure, and I seriously doubt very 'largest size were sticking from each pocket
whether it is practicable." of a stinted round-a-bout, and he was industri-
" I will test its practicability, At all events. ously gnawing a crust of bread.
I will leave you at Britton's Neck, and trust  Hestopped and stared at the horses, the sad-
myself to the uncertain chances of success," dies, the arms and accoutrements of all kinds,
added Forstall, resolutely. and in fact at everything that met his vision;-
" I would not cast the shadow of a stain but during all the time he was feastinghis eyes,
upon your patriotism, Mr. Forstall, but -I per- he did not cease for a moment to gnaw at his
eeive Ruth -Strickland has something to do with crust. ,
your rash determination; you wish to serve   "You seem   to be very much interested in
her by rescuing her father from the horrors of what you see here," remarked an officer, ad-
imprisonment.  I appreciate your motive ; it is 'dressing the young man.
commendable, but your scheme is a desperate. " I've come up tojine," said the interesting
one.'                                       youth addressed, taking a large bite from the
Having determined on this enterprise, no ar- nearest side of his crust.
gumonts could divert him from his purpose ; ' " There 's the colonel, ,out yonder," added
and, accordingly, Forstall parted with his friend the officer.
and turned his horse's head towards Camden.   "You don't say so !" exclaimed 'the;verdant
He passed Mr. Strickland's dwelling, and sighed stranger, performing the act of deglutitin with
as it faded from view. Invoking many bless- obvious difficulty.
ings upon Ruth, he gave the rein to his:willing  " Jest tell him to step this way,". he added.
beast, and hurried onward upon his dangerous  "I reckon you growled up among the weeds,
mission.                                    mister," said a tory, rather contemptuously.
The incidents of our story now oblige us to  " I guess you're about right, stranger, for
.leave Frank for awhile, and look after Cunning- there was a host of them kind of vegetable per-
ham and his band. Since his last repulse by ductions in the district where I's raised. Dad's
Captain Hawes, he had been busily engaged in door-yard was- all kivered with tanzy, pigweed
recruiting Jiis forces, and committing 'depreda- and other exotics."y
tions upon the inhabitants about Nelson's Fer- " Pervisions plenty up there, Jonathan ?"
ry, and all along between the Santee ands'the added the loyalist,:thinking to quiz the young
Pedee. He had been among the most active man a little for the amusement of his com-
in distributing printed copies of, Lord Cornwal- panions._
lis's last proclamation ; and in consequence of it,  "Then you know me !" exclaimed our em-
had received daily additions to his ranks. To bryo soldier.
see a man coming into camp with a musket up-  " Summat, but not intimately," replied the
%on his'shoulder, was an event so common that other, shrugging his shoulders.
it scarcely attracted attention ; therefore on the  - " I don't see how you found out my name,
morning following, nobody wondered or exhib- blow me if I do," returned the young man,
ited astonishment when a'stout and awkward swallowing his dry bread with a painful effort.
young man stalked into the encampment of the  " 0 we know a great deal here,'I tell Ye."
" Bloody Scout."  If the new comer excited    "Jest so; and I hope you know enough to
any particular attention, it was that prompted whip General Marion out o' his leather cap-I
by curiosity; for his dress was unique, his hair do, I swow!"

I .

91

MARION'S BRIGADE.

Otnnningham, attieted by the crowd, at that by dozens, as heretofore. I want you toblazen
"Whant apprh naey ange lad?" he possible ; the news will bring us recruits better
What 's your name, my fine                than anything else."
askEldad Tewksbury, at your service; and I've  While Cunningham waa speaking, an officer
got an all-jumpi' appetite. This junk of per- of rank approached, who proved, to    j
vision was a loaf of bread once, but I begun on Gainey.
the south side of it ten minutes ago, and now it a"I thought I 'd ride over and see you, with
looks as if it had been struck bylightnin'-  a few of my fellows," hersaid "and learn how
don't it kernel '?" answered Eldad, not at all you are getting along, or if there is anything
abashedr                                  n    I am glad you have come; we have just re-
ni-hme aeo      fo   "   nue           ceived some capital news. The 'Swamp Fox'
, IoMr. is retreating towards North Carolina," replied
" Well, I'm right from  hun," said Mr" inhm
Tewksury.Cunningham.
Tewksbury. a                           he    "Toyrgood to be strictly true, I'm afraid.
colonel.an the ne          of         Rocky In what manner did you receive this informa-
colne-                              -        -
"I '    om  the neighborhood   of Rocky tion?"b       ,"roud-
Crouek;andIf'eo  cmego jne," was the re-     " I brung. it," said Eldad Tewksbury, prod
Creek ; and  ive come to   ,"wshre ly, wiping his mouth with his coat-sleeve.
e                                  about     Do you know what you're talking about?"
"I dare say you can tell me something dabouy          sharply.
General Marion ?" resumed the colonel, quickly  rejoinGes   'bout 's well's any other he,"
"'I reckon I can tell you just' aboutdanythi  eGuess I dew,  wt  a confident air.
Ayou may want 'to know-i can," said Eldad, returned Tewksbury, with a conidnear
ouniaynt  o                              "What are you going to do with all those
f                       he is, you will do weapons you 've got, you'?" asked the major.
me a great favor," rejoined the colonels earn- 4"Well, I kinder kalkerlate to cut my bigness
ea          vry                           through the inemy, in some shape or other, and
est]'     e          ,             a he's leave my name on the scrawl of hist'ry ; if any-
cut He's heerd that you're after him, an e' it body's got anything' to say agin it, I'd like to
dreadful fast," returned Eldad, triumphantly,  hear it."    ath
"Good! excellent !"   exclaimed Cunning-    Eldad glanced about him to discover that im-
ham, rubbing his hands with satisfaction." prudent person who might gainsay him, or op-
"Tewksbury, you have brought us agreeable pose his ambitious views.     t        young
nw.Do you think the 'rumor" is perfectly   " Ambition is a dangerous. thing, my youg
true?"                                     friend," observed Gainey.
"I know it is, kurnel  and everybody knows  "So' I've hearn; but I think of -the tew,
"kit uisrwa. ke; sand h's scared e'ena- that ammunition is the most dangerous ; I do,
it up our oway. They say he hsar     a        Jerusalem !" rejoined Eldad.
most out of his wits, for he's earn a mighty by   awe rely on this fellow's news'?" asked
I should like to get hold of him," said Gainey, in a low' voice, of the colonel.
"nInshould ldImplicitly ; for you remember the old say-
uI swow I wish you could, kurnel."       ing, 'children and fools always speak the-truth,' "
" We shall have fine times, my lads, now," said Cunnineham.
added the colonel, after reflecting a moment.  aCome, colonel, let us walk to     a youran
"We can lay waste the whole country, and we and talk over our affairs generally.  Taking
shall soon be numbered by hundreds instead of Cunningham by the arm, Gainey turned from

"


MARIO8N'S 3RIG+ADE.

the group of men that were staring at Eldad and shrieking, and fainting ,when the maidens
Tewksbury.                                  find themselves wooed .i et armis," observed
" You ainta goin','are ye'?" cried Eldad.  the major.
" Stop your mouth !" exclaimed a non-com-   "Certainly, sir, certainly; such things come
missioned officer.                          very natural to females.  But though we win
"I 've been tryin' to stop it for the last half their fair
hour, mister, but bread aint capable on't "               -esn  noorkeigwt        oc
hour, mse,.                            '," and arms, we will trust to the power of kind-
added Bidad.                                ness and persuasion afterward," rejoined Cun-
" You must touch your cap when you speak  gingham.
to an officer,"- returned the other.           Suppose we put the hour at twelve o'clock
"I want to know ! Is that the fashion here'? Ciriningham. We'll divide our men, and while
Teiu, how perlite-! I wouldn't a believed it !" you go up to Adair's to surprise and capture the
what, reckon. scour up your arms some- gentle Mary, I will do the same agreeable affair
-c                            for the fair Ruth Strickland," said Gainey.
Well, I s'pose you keep fine sand here for  "That will do.
that purpose, I'll give my toad sacrafieer a tar- ourpossession, we will place them on horseback
nation rubbin' to-morrow."oupossinweilpacthmnhrebc
Eldad Tewksbury, having eaten his breadand escort them to the Blue Tavern.     If the
now began to stroll about the ain his    ' affair should make considerable noise among the
ban                         camp, and as he whigs, we can send them to Camden to event
did not seem disposed to answer any more ques- a
tions, those:who had been listening to his con- a hressue, added Cunningham.
versation, and smiling at his simplicity, turned  This subject was discussed in detail for the
their attention to other matters, and left him  next half hour by the two officers. When they
entirely to his own reflections.  Gainey and left the tent they.perceived Eldad Tewksbury
Cunningham entered a tentl and conversed con- lying down within a yard of it sleeping soundfy.
fidentially upon matters of particular interest to  " There's our new recruit from the sheep pas-
both.                                       tare, sleeping off his cares, and; digesting his
" Since Marion has gone, and left us to op- bread," said the major.
rate without fear, I see nothing to prevent us  " He's a young giant in stature," rejoined
front carrying out our former plans in relation the colonel.
to those young women," said the major.." He's dreaming about the scrawl of Iist'ry,
" The auspicious moment seems to have ar- I dare say," added Gainey.
rived, I confess," answered the other.         "Strange that ambition.should have place in
" Nothing is to be gained by delay; there- so simple a bosom," continued Cunningham.
fore I think we had better visit Britton's Neck  "'If he cuts his ' bigness through the inemy,'
to-night, with a detachment of our dragoons," he will do very well; for three horsemen abreast
added the major.                            might follow him without difficulty, I should
" But when we have caught the birds, where think. And see, his horse pistols are still stick-
shall we cage them for safe keeping'?" inquired ing from the pocket of his roundabout. Good
Cunningham, earnestly.                      morning, colonel.
"March them to the Blue House tavern, and   " Good morning, major.   Don't forget the
let them remain there for the present."    'time-hor twelve-place     Britton's Neek--     -
" A good idea, major. The fair rebels shall object, beauty-reward, love," said the colonel,
be quartered there."-gaily.,
" We are agreed, then ?"                    Cunningham   returned to his tent; Eldad
" Ungestionably," said the colonel.      Tewksbury arose, rubbed his eyes and walked-
"There will doubtless be some trembling away.

MARION'S BRIGADE 9.
"Is there a tavern about these here parts'?"  " Well; I'm going up there to wet my pipes,
he asked, of the first man he mete         for I'm dry as Jerusalem."
He was informed that the " Blue House" .Withthese words, Eldad Tewksbury stalked
was not, far off, and the - direction duly in- off, and was seen no more -at the encampment
dicated.                                    of the. " Bloody Scout."

CHAPTER XX.
THE PRIsoNERs. THE REscUE.

F RANK FORSTALL rode towards Cam-
hFden with such despatch, that at ten o'clock
precisely, he met the prisoners on their way to
Charleston. They were, as he had been in-
4rmed by the royalists, strongly guarded. For-
stall confessed some slight nervous trepidation
ehe seared the British soldiers.
"Where are you going, young man'?" asked
the captain of the guard.
"To Camden, sir, to join the troops under
Cornwallis," replied Frank, touching his cap
respectfully. Then he added instantly :
"You have a fine lot of rebels here. I wish,
captain, they were allsecured in this way. What
a blessing it would be to the country."
" Two hundred of them, sir, all told. Aint
they guilty looking rascals'?" said the captain
"They don't look as if they could be trust-
ed," returned Frank.
"Where are you from'?-                -
"Britton's Neck, sir," answered Forstall,
again touching his cap.
"Is that Marion up on the Santee anywhere
now ?" added the other.

"No sir, he's in the full tide of retreat
towards North Carolina."
"Indeed I"
"'Tis true, sir ; and every true loyalist-re-
joices at the event. The fact is, he heard that
Tarleton and Wemyss were marching towards
the Santee."
S"If th'e Swamp Fox knows what's good for
himself, he'll stay there."
" So I think. How far will you go to-day,
captain'?"
"Not much farther. ' We all feel pretty tired,
and since Marion's Brigade has marched off, I
don't feel so much in a hurry about getting to
Charleston. Is there a good tavern anywhere
near, on the route'?"
"Yes ; there's the Blue House tavern, where
they manage to keep all kinds of refreshment
for man and beast. And mine host has as good
liquor in the cellar as a man would wisho taste.
Try somb of it, captain."
Forstall drew a small flask from a side pocket
and passed it-to the officer, who drank, smacked
his lips, and pronounced it the "right kind of
stuff."- He then expatiated somewhat on his

92

4

s
h5
i
v
jS
O
S
Y
}
I             yy
A           I T
.           VR.
8            1
t                 F'v
t
fc
a
a
K
E
bAi
Z
I
S
.h

f


94

4 XARIGW8 ,BRIGADE.

a
2 T
p
f      a
Y
"rs
yr e
FIA
.ej
r ,

exploits at the battle of Camden, and threaten
to "tweak General Marion's nose," -if
should be so very lucky as to meet him an
where.
Frank made his best bow to the valiant cox
mander,' and the prisoners and their. esco
moved on. It was an interesting moment
our hero. As he contemplated the dejected an
wayworn Americans, his heart was moved wi
pity, not unmixed with indignation.- How a
dently he wished for a detachment of Marion
Brigade, to set them at liberty. How Captai
Nick, with his " tarnal critters," would scatt
the guard!
Ferstall looked eagerly for Mr. Strickland
and he began to fear that he was not amon
them, when he discovered him near the rear o
the cortege.  Strickland raised his eyes an
they encountered Frank's. Marching by th
side of Strickland was a neighbor with whon
Forstall was well acquainted, He also recog
nized our hero, and asked him where he wa
going.
This was a painful question for him to answer
but he replied firmly that he was on the way t
in'aden, to enroll himself in the army of Corn
wallis.
While Frank was speaking, Mr. $trickland
gave him a reproachful look, which brought the
color to his cheeks. °
le thinks me a despicable villain," said
Frank to himself, and the idea grieved him.
" The enemies' of our country will, be glad
of your services, no doubt," said Strickland,
in a melancholy voice.
Thess words cut Forstall to the quick, for he
could not well endure the idea of being thought
a tory by Mr. Strickland, even for a moment ;
but he thought of Ruth, and tried to bear it
manfully. While reflections of this nature agi-
tated his mind, the mournful cortege swept
slowly on, and he was left alone. Attempting
to shake off the sadness which the spectacle had
produced, he rode forward a mile or two, and

t

95

MARION'S BRIGADE.

ed taking another road, urged his weary horse
he towards Marion's campp.
y- -           * -             *
" I wonder what's going' on now ?" said Ben
m- Rowan.
rt  "I cannot inform you; but since the return.
to of Frank Forstall, Henderson, and that Job
d Dawson, the general has been very busy. He's
th received news in regard to the niovements of
r- thie tories, probably," replied James Adair.
's   " That Quaker feller puzzles me, pulverize
La me if he don't," added Ben, emphatically.
er' " He came into camp not long ago, looking so
much like a ;egerlar greeny_ that I didn't
1, scarcely know him. It's my opinion he's a spy ;
g notwithstandin' he's sieh%' fighter when worst
f comes to worst.  I-know very well*that he saved
d my life twice, but that don't prevent his being
e a humbug, arter all."
a    "I can't tell, I'm sure," rejoined Adair,
- smiling.
s    "Here he comes now, with Fdrstall and
Ienderson."
The two approached.
o " What's the row ?" asked B6n of Frank.
" Nothing only the Brigade is getting read
to march at a moment's warning," was the
reply..
. Is there a smart prospect of a tarnal tussle-?"
inquired Captain Nick, who joined them at that
instant
' I think so," replied John Henderson.
" It strikes me," added Rowan, "that this
is rather a curious place for a man of peace."
" Thyti art right, good Benjamin," said Job,
gently.
" And them are rather queer things for a
man of peace to wear about his clothes," re-
sumed Ben, pointing at the butts of a pair of
horse pistols that were protruding from his coat
pockets.
" Right again, friend Benjamin. I am like
St. Paul, when among these people, all things
to OLmen; because I cannot resist those that
ar in authority. It is even so, verily."

" You saved my life, and I am grateful for th
it, as the common run~of folks would .be ; but w
that's neither here nor there ; it can't make one
hair white nor black, nor hinder me from feeling' m
that somebody that shall be nameless, is a bum- ax
bug. That's what's on my mind at this time, ti
and if anybody wants to take it up and be ugly
about it, I'm ready to pulverize that person as a
long as pulverizing '11 have a savin' effect on i
the moral principles."                     r
Ben Rowan . pronounced these words with c
great gravity, and deliberately rolled up his coat
sleeves; a little piece of formality highly sig- e
nificant to the beholders.        .
It was now dark, and the buglek of the Brigade g
summoned all to the parade ground. .y
" Fall in-tumble in-be lively, boys- .
there's work afore us,'' said Captain. Hawes. .c
" Verily, I am sick'of war 1" exclaimed Joba
Dawson, as he mounted his horse and fell into
his accustomed place.
Ben looked at him, but deigned no reply.
" Jones is throwed agin," said Higgins, sor-
rowfully. ,
"He wants to disgrace the hull Americanf
army," rejoined Hawes.
Forstall and Henderson exchanged glances.4
"Here comes the general," observed James
Adair.
Marion now spoke 'with all the commissioned
officers, and they in turn spoke with the others,
and very soon the business in contemplation wah
pretty generally understood.
"Two hundred prisoners at Nelson's Ferry
that's got to be re-took," said Hawes, riding
back to bis'men, after the general had cofhmu-
nicated his orders to 'the officers.  " They're
under an escort of ninety strong, and there'll
be a tarnal tussle, no doubt ; but we shall be
victorious when we straighten up. in our might,
and bust on 'em like a bombshell. Some of
our lads have been down to the F9rry, and found
out all the particulars. When we've whipt the
rascals, and freed the prisoners, we've got some-
thin' else on hand that's rather enterprisin'

an otherwise, which I will tell you more about
hen I get ready."
" Forward !" cried Marion, and the Brigade
oved towards Nelson's Ferry, in good spirits,
nd eager for an opportunity to test their devo-
on to liberty.
Whilaon the way Forstall related his late
adventures to his companions, to which they
stened with eager interest, bestowing many
ough but sincere praises upon his address and
ourage.
During Marion's swift and silent march, the
aptain of the escort, whose name we do not
tow remember, was regaling himself on the
good things to be found at the "Blue House."
He ate, drank, smoked, boasted, and threatened
Marion's Bigade with utter extermination if be
could but be so fortunate as to meet with it
anywhere, or under any circumstances.
The gallant captain continued in this happy
frame of mind until past midnight, and his
courage, enjoyment, zeal, and hatred of the
whigs seemed to be fast increasing.
But the poor prisoners did not by any means
share in the good cheer of the 'British officer ;
they were huddled like cattle into the bari and
outbuildings, suffering for food and drink, and
shivering with cold.  They set in deep and sor-
rowftil silence, each absorbed in his own indi-
vidual misery., A guard was posted about the
barn, and the house also, while-the belief that
prevailed among them, in consequence of the
false information that had been given, that
Marion was retreating towards North Carolina,
added greatly to the feeling of security that
was so grateful to the hearts of, the British
hirelings.
" Yes," cried the valorous captain of the
escort, with a round oath, " I wish that Marion
was here now. I'd so cut him   -"
At that moment several muskets were dis-
charged in rapid succession, Every man sprang
to his feet, and looked at his comrade.
" Charge, men ! charge !" shouted a voice
terrible in battle.

t   c
LI!
1.

:s


96              '-.MARIONHS
"I believe it's Marion, by   .  To arms,
men, to arms !" cried the royal officer, while
his cheeks grew deadly pale.
" Straighten up, you tarnal critters !  Reap
the rascals with your sickles of death !" shouted
Captain Nick.
Th whole Brigade thundered down among
the;sentinels, who fired their muskets and fled,
towards the house. In an instant General Ma-
rion was at the door, calling on them to surren-
der, in those startling tones which distinguished
him in the hour of battle.
The summons was immediately obeyed ; every

F   ORSI'LL was the first to fly to the pris-
oners with the good news that the guard
would now exchange places with them, and
were waiting for the darbies.
"What, you here, Frank ?" exclajined Mr.
Strickland.
" Thank God, yes," said Forstall, warmly.
". Xy position this morning was an ambiguous
one; but heaven be praised, to-night I occupy'
one that cannot be misunderstood. I have the
honor to belong to Marion's Brigade."
"That makes my heart beat with joy, Frank,
for -I know that my daughter Ruth loves you;
and it would grieve me sorely to have her set
her affections on one who has no love for his
country," exclainled Mr. Strickland.
Forstall then communicated to the latter some
information, which he had received from General
Marion, concerning the schemes of Gainey and
Cunningham, in relation to the abduction of
Ruth and Mary Adair.
"How he obtained this information," added
Frank, "I cannot tell; but I. have many con-
jectures on the subject ; and those conjectures
have reference to onb Job Dawson--a singular

young man of whom I *ill tell you mpre anon."
"Mr. -Forstall," said Marion, approaching
our hero, "there is nottime to lose.  Captain
Hawes's company is ready to go to Britton's
Neck, to defeat the villany of Gainey and
Cunningham. You can hurry there' with all
possible despatch, and I will follow with the rest
of the Brigade, as quick as circumstances will
permit ; for we are now; you know, encumbered
yith ninety prisoners."
" Yes, let us away," said Strickland, anx-
iously.
" All ready to march towards Britton's
Neck*!" cried Captain Nick, to Forstall.
"There's the British 'officer's horse," said
Henderson. " You might as well mount him,
Mr. Strickland ; I think it's your turn to ride
now."
"That's my opinion, sir, for I have walked
all the way froin Camden, and that cowardly
fellow rode," replied Strickland, leaping into
the saddle.
"Jones's horse's a cuttin' up capers agin,"
said Higgins.
" Jones, have you been giving that critter

/

3RIGADE.

soldier laid dowr his musket and yielded to the
man whop daring had 'been so recently ques-
tioned, and whose deeds had been mentioned
with contempt...
Upon searching for the bold and chivalrous
captain, he was found in the chimney ; snug,
but not very comfortable.*
* aAfter securing, their arms," writes Weems,
"Marion called for their captain, but he was not to
be found high nor low, among the living or dead.
HQwever, after a hot search, he was found up the
chimney. He begged very hard that his men should
not know where he had concealed himself."-Marion's
Times.

I

MARION'S
new rum and molasses agin ?" inquired Nie-
odemus.
"No, I haint," answered the unhappy Jones,
sullenly.
"u Move on, my hearts of oak. - We've done
one handsome    thing  to-night, and we're
bound to shine in history till the north star
grows dim, and the poles of' the airth are dorn
out with revolutions, and squeak, for want of
greasing . Come up-put her through-dash
ahead-keep moving. "
"Verily, I hope we shall be in time to rescue
the damsels," said Job Dawson to Frank, as
they spurred or ward.
tI should go mad,,if I thought we should
fail !" he exclaimed.
" They are men of Belial, and the fear of
the Lord is not before their eyes," added Job.
" Humbug !" muttered Ben Rowan.
"One thing I should really like to know,
Mr. Dawson ?" rejoined our, hero.
"Speak thy mind, friend Frank," said Job,
mildly.
Iam curious to, know by what means Gen-
eral Marion learned about the nefarious schemes
of Gained and Cunningham," answered For-
stall.
"I will inform thee, friend Frank. One
Eldad Tewksbury went down to the camp of the
enemy as a spy, and heard then devising this
wickedness in regard to the two 'maidens," said
Job.
"And who is this Eldad Tewksbury ?" in
terrogated Frank.
"He's a cousin to Jotham Stebbins," replie
Dawson, gravely.
"But I never found out who he w'as," re
turned Frank.      .
. " The crooked shall be ade straight, an
the rough places smooth," added Job, prophet
ically.
aBah !" exclaimed Ben Rowan, contenipts
ously.
"There's some considerable mystery hangin
about this subject," observed Henderson,'e
changing glances with James Adair.
"So it seems.'-' remarked the latter.

BRIGADfl.                              97
At this juncture, Mr. Rowan, the, boxer,
alluded in a very delicate manner to the pul-
verizing system, as a sublime antidote to all
mystery.
When near the Neck, For tall, Dawson, Hen-
derson and Adair, were sent forward by Captain
Hawes to see if the enemy could be discovered,
learn his exact position, and the best point, of
attack. They galloped off to perform this duty
with right good will, and it was remarked that
even the quiet and impassive Job Dawson ap-
peared, to shake off his usual apathy, and feel
the deepest interest in what was transpiring.
He was the first to discover Gainey and his dra-
goons; they were moving up the hill towards
Strickland's, and soon halted within a few hun-
dred yards of the house. Fastening their horses,
they advanced on foot until they were near
enough for all practical purposes.
"They have not yet divided their men, I be-
lieve," said Dawson.
"Perhaps they have changed their minds,"
returned Forstall, " and intend to do their vil-
lanous work here first, and then move on to
Adair's."
" That's very possible," said Adair.
"I wish we could get near enough to hear
what they say," he added.
"That would be time wasted, it seems to me.
Why should we have our ears wounded by hear-
ing them profane the names of Ruth and Mary,"
returned Frank.
"I think you are right, Mr. Forstall. They
are about ready to move on again, and to delay
d would be to allow Miss Strickland to be un-
necessarily agitated and frightened by their
rudeness," said Henderson.
This view of the case appeared so reasonable
d that all parties instantly retraced their steps to
t- the spot where they had left their horses, and
mounting, returned to the detachment, where
u. they related what they bad seen to Captain
Hawes.
g    " Do you think there'll be time to make an
x- almighty oration ?" ehe asked, anxiously.
" It must be- pretty short, captain, for you
see these young fellows are impatient, because

CHAPTER XXI.
CoNCLUSIoN.

.     {       t
.   7
t
"{
;
. Y
*        }I
-y
t '4    ' 
,      ~
p
f
. 7 f
",
r
7 '
r i
rt-
'"r    '4
+     k"
.
, +
,
1.

'v
4
i
'               ; +ir
..K;i
3G
? ^'tk;

d


I'A

99,

MARION'S BRIGADE.

98                            MARION'S BRIGAJ,.,
fair ladies are concerned," replied Henderson, and striking with his feet ; and then our he
in a jocular tone.                         saw, with an involuntary shudder, Job's gre
"Independent Fire Eaters and feller coun- sabre flashing like a meteor in the faint moo
trymen ! Oncommon specimints of female beau- light.   g
ty are'in danger.  We go to the 'tented field  "Do you see that, Ben Rowan ?" exclaimed
and the listed plain to do our devoirs for the Frank.
sweetest of creation., Jones, what in thunder  "He hath a devil," said Ben.
are you about ? Restrain the ardor of that    "It's a fighting devil, at any rate," returne
colt!  Who isn't ready to break a lance, and Forstall.  " See ; his mighty. horse outstrip
p
his neck too, for lovely woman up to her eyes all."
in trouble. There isn't one among us so base ; " Both humbugs," added Rowan.
if there is; he'd.sell his birthright for a mess of Before- ten minutes had expired, the enem
potash.  Demean yourselves gloriously, and were no where to be seen; and the shouting an
your name will make a heavenly appearance on firing, and clashing of arms had nearly ceased
the scrawl of futurity."                   although the pursuit was still kept up by a fe
The Fire Eaters moved on slowly and can- of the detachment.
tiously, until the enemy were distinctly seen.  The kind reader need not be assured tha
Swing your war-scythes-bust on 'em 1" Frank embraced the earliest opportunity to has
shouted Captain Nick, and the detachment swept ten to Mr. Strickland's.
towards them with uplifted sabres.            "0, Frank, what has happened ?" exclaime
The jest about Marion died away on Gainey's Ruth, when Forstall entered precipitately and
lips; and Bill Cunningham's ruffilaly face grew without ceremony, his garments stained with
pale. They drew their swords from their sanguinary mementoes of the fight.
sheaths; but the star-beams had 'scarcely kissed  "Goodnews, Ruth, good news !" cried Frank,
their polished surfaces,. before Captain Hawes joyfully. " Mr. Strickland is at liberty."
had hurled his dragoons against them.         " Thanks be to the protecting hand of a care
" Some of Marion's fellows, as I have a soul ful prMidence !" ejaculated Mrs. Strickland.
to be saved !" cried Cunningham; and while    "And to this brave young man," said Job
he was uttering the words, a dozen of his horse. Dawson, who had followed Frank into the house.
men were overturned, and rolled in the dust   "Bnt what means this recent tumult-the
with the beasts that had borne them to many a bloody scene we have just witnessed from the
scene of murder and riot. Not one of them   windows ?" asked Ruth.
tried to stem the terrible tide of destruction that  "It means that villany is defeated, and
was sweeping them away ; those that had not worth and beauty protected from insult," said
already felt the sabres of the dragoons, and Forstall.  "Mr. Dawson will explain it all to
been overwhelmed by the shock of their fiery you."
charge, reined their horses from the encounter,  But Mr. Dawson seemed to have lost his ac-
and fled for life ; for they had heard the name customed calmness; for his eyes at that instant
of Marion shouted forth with stentorian voices had fallen upon the pretty figure of Mary Adair,
by the men of Rocky Creek.                 who having occupied an obscure portion of the
As on similar occasions, Frank. Forstall apartment had hitherto escaped observation.
watched the bearing of Job Dawson.  The re-   "4Do you not intend to notice me, Job Daw-
sult was much the same ; the Quakrer was fore. son ?" asked Mary. phyfully.
most in the melee; his mammoth horse "snuffed  "Verily, I should never forgive myse'f, fir
the battle afar off," and worked himself into a damsel, if I did not," replied Job.
fury; and Forstall saw him  dash among the'   "Treason !" cried Ruth.
enemy like a ihunderbolt, rearing, plunging,  " A conspiracy !'' added Frank.

4

ro
at
In-
d
d
Ps
y
d
I,
w
t
d
d
h

"Mystery !" added Mrs. Stickland.  '   Hawes, tell our lads to give three cheers for the
" And I believe you are one of the corispir- ladies."
ato" continued Forstall, addressing James  "Three cheers for the ladies-shriek, you
Ad    cir who oppotunely appeared at that june- tarnal critters !" cried Captain Nick, steppig
ture accompanied by Mr. Strickland, Captain to the door.  "Come, now, who roar-"
Hawes, Ben Rowan, and Henderson.             " That's the kind I Go it agin, like all pos-
But Mary tried to hide her blushes, and said sest. Who-roar! Jones, keep that colt down,
nothing; while Mr. Strickland received those and open your mouth !  Once more-who-
-oyful congratulations from his wife and daughter roar '!
that.were natural to the occasion.           " Now, ladies and gentlemen, I leave you to
Mr. Fecrstall, allow me to present you to mutual explanations and happiness," said the
Lewis Hawthorne," said James Adair, present- general. Hawes now whispered to Marion,
ing Job Dawson.                            and the latter colored slightly, and added,-
".A name that I have heard mentioned, I    "The gallant captain thinks that we ought
think," remarked Frank,                   to give three more cheers for Kate Martin and
" He's a tarnal critter, at any rate," said Mary Videau."
Captain Nick, "whether, he's Job Dawson,     1"An excellent idea," said Captain Haw-
Lewis Hawthorne, or-- ",thorne, looking significantly at Henderson.
"Eldad Tewksbury," added a voice.          "Now my glorious fellers, put her through
Our hero turned his eyes towards the speaker, once more on the who-roars, for the best of all
and recognized the well known features of G en-
animated natru"
oral Marion.                                 The cheers were given with remarkable effect
" Or Jotham Stebklins," added Henderson. and uncommon earnestness.
"I alleys said he was a humbug," observed an
Ben Rowan.
"I wonder what Miss Adair thinks about    Kind and indulgent reader, we have gone
it?" said Marion, with a pleasant smile.   over many pages together; if you have been.in-
"Since my secret is discovered, I will throw, terested and amused, the author is content.
f yQakriim        adapa'ain          o  Our story draws to a close ; but a little more
off my Quaker" idiom; and appear among you  buesor    asdded.That, Frank Forstall
henceforth (except when duty requires some- remains to  e ad  .     t    n   Forsvefo
thing different), as plain Lewis Hawthorne, summoned sufficient courage to own his love for
formerly of Charleston," said Mr. Hawthorne, Ruth Strickland, the reader may not doubt;
smiling,                                   and that they were united after the close of the
"I hardly need say to this fair company," campaign is equally certam.
added General MIarion, " that Mr. Hiwthorne, Captain Hawthorne, alias Job -Dawson, led
by assuming various disguises, has obtained the gentle Mary Adair to the hymeneal altar at
much valuable information, and been of great the same time; Marion's Brigade turned out
serllee to 'the Brigade, and to the country. . I on the occasion, and the bugles that so often
consider -him a brave man and a gentleman. le arose above the din of battle, sounded a merry
.will hereafter be known among us as Captain blast.  Henderson was wedded to "Queen
Hawthorne. And I should be unjust, not to Kate " ' about a fortnight afterward ;  and
mention Mr. Forstall and Mr. Henderson in James Adair and Rose Forstall embraced the
this connection. I consider them an honor to opportunity to consummate their happiness by
the Brigade,. and, like Mr. Hawthorno, descrv- being made the subjects of the same interest-
ing the' love of fair lady. They will both re- ing rites. Thus were the fair wedded to the
ceive, s6on, a lieutenant's commission, and be brave.
promoted when vacancies shall occur. Captain  . General Marion was present at both the

b

t

Id

"4


100

MAION'S BRIGADE.

1rf
i

Captain Nicodemus Hawes did, good service
for his country, and commanded the " tarnal
critters" till peace was declared. Ben Rowan
adhered strictly to the "pulverizing system " as
long as he was able to roll up his coat sleeves,
which was a long time, for he lived to a vener-
able age.
We need add no more in relationkto General
Marion and his men, for history has recorded
their worth, and a grateful people embalmed
their memory in throbbing hearts.

THE END.

. ,
e                Y  4
Jl

9

nuptials, and made a very appropriate speech to
the newly-married couples.
Gainey was captured soon after the affair at
Nelson's Ferry, and his power completely brok-
en, while Cunningham was driven from the
country in disgrace. Cyrus Dix and Ferguson
were both slain in an engagement with the
whigs, near Hanging Rock. Joe Sawyer never.
forgot his debt of gratitude to " Queen Kate,"
and was devotedly attached to her during his
whole life.

0 0

r r   r'
-
F
,
0
C
Y
{.


  
             
         
       
   
