
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Life and Adventures of Ebo Jube. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7081
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The life and adventures of Ebo Jube. 
            
                  THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF EBO JUBE; IN CONNEXION WITH, AND AS MORE FULLY ILLUSTRATED BY, WHAT BEFEL HS MASTER, CHARLEY BRIEF,  AT VARIOUS TIMES, AND IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE WORLD. PART I. NEW YORK: ADRIANCE, SHERMAN & CO., 2 ASTOR HOUSE 1852.   ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in theyear 1852, by ADRIANCE, SHERMAN & CO. in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States fbr the Southern District of New York.   PREFAC E THE Author of the following pages has pursued the advice of some ancient personage (whose name we have forgotten) who recommended that those who wrote books should keep their manuscripts by them for a long time, and then re-read them, when, if they proved satisfactory, to publish them. We wrote our book about eight years since, and on re-perusing it recently, we discovered that our mind regarding its character had undergone no material change. As we placed a very moderate value on it at first, we were rather disposed at the second reading to look upon it with more favor-like some parents of ugly children, who imagine that they grow prettier with age. In this idea we were encouraged by the opinion of a modern individual, and personal friend, whose advice, after the new order of things, however profitable to others, never appeared of much benefit to himself. However, as he professed to have the   iv         PREFACE. "gift " to "see us," as we could not "see ourselves," we adopted his counsel, and have printed our book- or the first part of it-just as the reader sees it. Hating long prefaces, we have only to express our wish that the reader may find much entertainment in reading what we have written, while we remain the public's Very humble and obedient servant, THE AUTHOR.   "FE AND ADVENTURES OF EBO JUBE. CHAPTER I. THERE is a small river which winds its way among alternations of hills and low grounds. Here, forced from its course by a bold promontory of rock; yonder, left- to shape its way at will through small levels, moving with leisure, as though resting from its fatigue caused by its progress over the last shoal, and dreading the next encounter. Many such had to be overcome before it reached the great reservoir of rivers. There was one lazy reach in which it loved to linger, so beautifully planned by the Great Architect of rural scenery, that it required no addi- tion from the hand of art to render it more charm- ing. Clothed with the simple wardrobe of primeval beauty, which changed only as the hues of the sea- sons changed, itspread into a landscape of surpass- ing loveliness. So secluded, .o virgin-like was the   6      LIFE AND ADVENTURES place, that no other eyes gazed upon it than those of the deer and buffalo, and the bright stars above. So rich was the scene, that the little lazy river smiled graciously upon it while moving forward on his journey, hiding himself here and there in the thick foliage of the trees, and anon peeping out in silent admiration at the flowers standing in a carpet of green grass skirting its margin, which in return nodded recognition to the truant little stream. The passing breeze kissed his placid bosom, yet so gently that it was seldom ruffled by the embrace. Gay butterflies would soar across its channel, from bank to bank, borne on the wings of the perfumed air. Sage oaks and venerable elms, that had never heard the sound of an axe, or other sounds than those of birds, which serenaded from morning till night, looked on the scene beneath and around them for centuries with patriarchal pride and pleasure. From earliest youth they had always seen that slow river moving in the same direction, and never wear- ing a frown, except when they themselves felt the passing storm, or witnessed the angry thunder cloud, darting its forked lightning through the atmo- sphere in wild phrensy, threatening to strike them dead with its bolts of fire. At such times, the birds gathered under their arms for shelter, while the ten- der lily and scarlet honeysuckle trembled with fear, and were bent down with the weight of rain, beneath the outspread branches of those fathers of the forest. In after times there came along a man of Anglo- Saxon origin, with a gun in one hand and an axe in   OF EBO JUBE.        7 the other, at seeing which the river grumbled in troubled ripples, while all 'the inhabitants of his neighborhood gazed on the intruder with great astonishment, wondering from whence he came and what his purpose could be. The deer and buffalo approached him to make his acquaintance, not apprehending danger, when he raised his gun and shot one of them dead, the sight of which filledall with terrible dismay. They were deafened by the report of the gun. The river repeated its echo, while the animals fled, and the birds flew away in great terror and confusion on witnessing what had passed. But how much more pained and alarmed were the aged oaks and elms, with other venerable trees of the forest, when they saw him take his cruel axe and commence felling one tree after ianother to the ground never to rise again. His horrid work of destruction not stopping here, what should he do to complete it but take a large iron hoe, and dig up and exterminate the tender flowers which had so long received the protection of the trees. The bosom of the river became less bright, and more frequently swollen with turbid anger, at beholding the destruc- tion of his long cherished friends. He thought to escape in his own person from the tortures of this persevering destructive; but in this expectation he was disappointed, for the new comer took stones, and having made a strong dam, forced the river to move in a narrow channel, where he set it to work in turn- ing a great wheel, which crushed grain and sawed boards all day long. Not satisfied with this labor,   8      LIFE AND ADVENTURES he made it carry great loads of merchandise, and at a later period added to its other burdens that of the ponderous steamboat, filled with fire and smoke; till finally it had so much to do and so little rest, that it often repined and wished it had shared the fate of its old companions, and not been thus reserved for a state of perpetual servitude. If the reader will visit a farm on a small water- course flowing into the James river, not many miles below Richmond, Va., he will find the locality we have described, with the small river, still at work in turning a huge mill wheel. And, not far distant, on an elevated piece of ground which commands a view of the river, now dislodged from its ancient hiding- places, moving sullenly forward in the performance of its daily toil, is seen the dwelling house erected by the founder of the estate. This mansion has nothing very remarkable in its appearance. It was built at an early period of the colony by an eccentric old gentleman, who laid its foundations to correspond with the four points of the compass--its ends looking north and south, while its sides faced east and west. This house witnessed many changes, both in fami- lies and governments; and, like its founder, had, in times of primogeniture and entail, with the connex- ion of church and state, laid claim to higher preten. sions of style and rank, than it had been able to maintain by the subdivisions introduced under repub- lican institutions. In its early prosperity, it was the centre of an immense domain of fertile acres, and   OF EBO JUBE.        9 was built with a degree of elegance corresponding with the extent and value of the lands which sur- rounded it. It rose from a deep basement on stone walls to the first floor, completing its height in two ample stories and attic, with substantial framework of wood, neatly boarded and painted white without, and plastered within. It inclosed large halls, dining-rooms, and sleeping apartments, all finished in the best old Eng- lish fashion, with high oaken wainscoting, high mantels, and large windows. It occupied an impos- ing and aristocratic position amidst its more humble dependents, including servants' houses, granaries, and stables. At a little distance beyond those stood the overseer's house, flankedby a large number of negro dwellings. In the aristocratic days of the colony, this lordly old mansion looked abroad with contented com- placency and pride upon the world which dwelt around it; apparently sharing in the dignified exclu- siveness and pretensions to high life, cherished by its founder and occupant. The rising sun, as he shot his first rays over the eastern hills, seemed to smile graciously on this proud looking mansion, which smiled back again in acknow- ledgment of the warm salutation, as one lord would graciously condescend to return the greeting of another, moving in a far higher order of nobility. And as the lord of day retired to rest, beyond the verge of distant blue hills, he would look into the old pannelled halls, through its large windows-hold   10      LIFE AND ADVENTURES *a few moments' dalliance with its old portraits-the old-fashioned clock face in the corner-peep at the quaint old ornaments spread on the old mantelpiece, giving each a golden kiss, saying, as it were, "good night," as he puts his last foot over the half-seen landscape, smiling, for the last time that day, on the old grey chimney tops. As night closed around, the lordly old mansion would retire within itself, to hold converse with its proud inmates, now busied with their family amusements, then going to rest, feeling conscious of having closed the day with becoming dignity. The brightest scenes and happiest times will change. A report reached this old mansion of an excitement in the House of Burgesses, heightened by the decla. mation of Henry, whioh flung disquietude into the bosom of the family of which the old mansion seemed to feel its due proportion. Things progressed, so far, that the house, with its inmates, saw no means of saving themselves from utter ruin than-by reduc- ing their aristocracy to a nearer level with the times. To refuse was destruction; to yield was to retain some advantages. In either event, the case became one of hardship. The old house seemed to be the first which felt the shock. It ceased to smile in haughty grandeur, as it previously did. Its paint faded away, while its roof was minus a shingle here and there. It exhibited rents in its walls and plas- tered ceilings. The white-lime mortar dropped out from the crevices of the brick and stone masonry.   OF EBO JUBE.        " Its door-locks and hinges grew rusty, and complained when moved. Its windows looked gloomy, while the shutters slammed about in uneasy moods. In these symptoms of change manifested by the old mansion, the humbler buildings scattered around seemed to sympathise, for they, too, gave evidences of submitting to the hand of dilapidation. Amidst all, however, there was an evident struggle to keep up appearances of the former state. The old grey- haired master, under the influence of early feelings and high notions (though fain to conceal them), would drive up before the old house in his old heavy carriage (with the same little paintings on its pan- nels), driven by the same old coachman, dressed out in the same old liVery, which had seen much service in better days. At viewing these relics of former grandeur, the old house would gather courage, and attempt to repair various marks of decay in its outer. works. In this respect, like an old English gentle- man, who, educated for a higher sphere than that in which his reduced fortune compelled him to move, yet wishing to preserve appearances, brushes his coat and beaver, powders his hair, and adjusts his queue with the greatest care, by which means he endeavors to make people believe, that in reality he stands in purse and rank just where he always stood. That his ancestry was higher and better than other people's, in whose veins no plebeian blood ever ran. The war of the revolution came, and with it the total subversion of all colonial arrangements. Primo- geniture and church establishments were abolished.   12     LIFE AND ADVENTURES The lord and master of the old mansion sunk beneath the shock. The old house never smiled afterwards, or made a successful effort at regeneration. An only son inherited the family estate, who embraced the levelling doctrines of Jefferson. This descendant of the old stock was in every respect the opposite of the father, and became a popular leader in the party ranks, in which his opinions had placed him,- and attended so much to politics, and left so much to the management of the overseer, that he found the latter was continually growing richer, while he was all the while growing poorer, till he came to the wholesome resolution of paying off his thrifty agent by dividing his landed estate, giving him one half of it, while retaining the remainder, and attempting to retrieve his fortune by attending to his own business. About this period, his family, in the negro line, was increased by the birth of an individual, whose future movements, doings, and sayings, will figure largely in this work. So little note was taken at the time of his advent into this troublesome world, that no record was made of it; and it so happened, in the progress of things, that first the day, and then the month on which he was born were forgotten, and finally the exact year of his birth seemed to slip from the memory of man. Losing his mother quite young and growing up quite an odd and quaint creature, some persons were finally heard to express their doubts whether he had ever had a mother, or whether he had ever been born at all-supposing it not impossible that by some freak of Nature he had   OF EBO JUBE.       18 accidentally sprung into existence. But, one point about his origin has never been disputed, which is, that, let his birth have happened as it might, he was first seen and known at one of the negro houses near the old mansion we have described. He was remark- able in his boyhood for his extreme ugliness. His head was disproportioned to the dimensions of his body and limbs. The latter were very diminutive, while the former was very large. His legs were not only small but bowed. His stomach projected with extravagant rotundity, while his arms were feeble, long, and ill-shapen. His nose was broad and flat, and his eyes large, round, and white. His forehead high and receding at its broadest angles. His teeth were large and pearly. His hair was short and woolly, and of a dingy red color. His feet were large, and flat, and long, showing prominent heels in the rear. Such was the youthful appearance of one who in after life became a very remarkable personage of the African race. He answered to the name of EBO JUBE. We shall not attempt to account for the origin of his name, or to explain why he was thus named, or indeed why he had a name at all. About the time Ebo appeared in the black line, an unlucky and unpromising boy appeared in the white, who is not particularly worthy of notice, save that he became, by common consent, at once the playmate, owner, and master of Ebo, whom everybody 'that saw him pronounced the ugliest negro they had ever seen. Whether from early association, or from some other hidden sympathy or feeling of the human heart,   "     LIFE AND ADVENTURES unexplored, CHARLEY BRIEF, the owner and master of Ebo, did not so esteem him. Indeed, so much did he fancy the dark-skinned lad, that he put him on quite a republican footing with himself, and treated him every way as his equal, often dividing his meal with him in a manner to cause Ebo to feel that his mas- ter's kindness was sincere. Being little regarded by others, Ebo naturally felt a strong attachment for Charley, which grew in strength as they advanced in years. Master and servant became substance and shadow. To regard the master without the servant, would have been to grasp at the shadow and miss the substance. With- out the servant the master could never have made a figure in the world; and the servant, without the master, would have died in obscurity, and have been decomposed beneath the green sward which covered the family burial-ground of the Briefs. To be known in the world, a man must see the world, and the world must see him. So it was with Ebo. Had he not sustained his master both by his advice and services, the master himself could not have gone abroad, and without the master Ebo could not have travelled. We shall see in the sequel that both became distin- guished characters; yet, as it was Ebo's lot, while nominally performing a subordinate part, to be the most noted hero of the two, he may often appear to the reader the most prominent character in our history. Ebo, although apparently wholly indifferent to "book learning," was endowed with a high degree   OF EBO JUBE.       15 of common sense, and with keen and quick powers of observation. He displayed no aptitude for learn- ing, for when following "Mas Charley" to school, and sitting himself down with other boys to learn his A B C's, he would uniformly fall into a profound slumber, from which he could only be aroused by some mischievous boys holding burning wads of cot- ton under his nose, which set him to sneezing. On waking up and looking round, he would say: "Look here, white boy, if you do dat agin Mas Charley will lick you at play time." This threat was never without its meaning, for '"Charley" never failed to resent an unprovoked insult offered to Ebo. At the time of which we speak, it was not unusual for negro boys of the same age of white boys, to voluntarily follow them to school, who, if they chose, were permitted to learn with the other scholars. Ebo and Charley were linked together in all sorts of ties, and whether employed at school, in the fields, or in mischief, a common destiny awaited them. When- ever punished, they were both flogged at the same time; and if gratified with a holiday and an allow- ance of cake, each shared the bounty alike. Thus they grew up together amidst the rural em- ployment and sports of a country farm, so favorable to the promotion of health and the preservation of innocent simplicity of character. Yet it strikes us, boys can never be so placed as entirely to remove the inclination to do mischief. Ebo and Charley were not free from the usual juvenile propensities of this   16      LIFE AND ADVENTURES character. Indeed few lads probably ever grew up in a country place, who displayed greater ingenuity in contriving mischief and boldness in its execution, than Charley Brief. In this kind of enterprise he frequently gained success, avoided detection and punishment by the cunning and active co-operation of Ebo, who, possessing in himself no skill in con- triving, yet yielded the most important services to his master in carrying forward a scheme when once determined upon. If he and master were overtaken in their career, he most willingly shared the flogging which should justly have fallen with the greatest severity on the master. We could fill pages with many of their amusing adventures while even below their teens, but fear they would be found too trivial to amuse. Charley Brief's mother was a woman of taste in gardening. Giving her first care to the claims of a well stocked kitchen-garden, she devoted her leisure moments to the cultivation of a neat, small flower garden. It so chanced that the family physi- cian, residing some seven or eight miles from Mr. Brief's, possessed a love for flowers, as doctors are generally known to do, and who had lately come in possession of some Cypress seed, which produced a small creeper bearing red flowers. These seeds were hard, triangular, and as large as small buck shot. Mrs. Brief desired to obtain a portion of them to place in her garden. It became necessary to dispatch Charley on horseback to the Doctor's to get the seed. When Mrs. Brief was planning this trip for Charley, it chanced that the Doctor was passing home   OF EBO JUBE.       17 from a professional visit in the neighborhood, and merely called to inquire if all the members of Mrs. B.'s family-including Ebo and Charley, ate their meals with good appetite. The call of the Doctor was propitious. Charley was mounted on a horse to accompany him home for the seed in question. On the road, a mile or two from Mr. Brief's, there lived an old farmer, who could tell everything in the world about the growing of grain and rearing of cattle, but who knew just nothing at all about physic, never having had occasion for a dose. He could not for his life tell saltpetre from glauber salts, calomel from gunpowder, or rhubarb from gingerbread. This old farmer answered to the name of Hornby. For once during his existence, and on the day that the Doctor and Charley set out on the trip above mentioned, their road taking them directly by Homby's door, he ima- gined or believed himself to be, if not ill, decidedly unwell. Before the Doctor and Charley, however, had made the farm house of Hornby, they heard a bawling and hallooing in their rear. Looking round, they saw a small, ugly-looking creature, running at full speed in pursuit. The black woolly head and ill-shapen limbs, were soon recognized as those of Ebo Jube. "What in the name of wonder," says the Doctor, "is that?" pointing to Ebo, as he came running with both nostrils expanded, his eyes and mouth wide open, crying out as he ran: "Massa Charley, Massa Charley, let me go with you."   18     LIFE AND ADVENTURES "He is Ebo Jube, our black boy, and is crying to go with me," replied Charley to the Doctor. "Upon my soul," said the Doctor, "had I seen him alone in the dusk of the evening, and had my  fine brace of pistols with me, I should have shot him for the cub of some wild beast." By this time, Ebo had got sufficiently near to hear the latter part of the Doctor's exclamation, and eye- ing him with a mixed feeling of dread and ill will, ejaculated, "Lor Gor O'mity." "Ebo!" said Charley, "did you get leave to come along?" "No, Massa Charley; I seed you start, and den I started arter you." "Well, well," said the Doctor, "you are the ugliest negro I ever saw. Mount, mount, you black rascal, behind that lad, and remember you'll catch it when you get back." "Some white folks be ugly, too," said Ebo, in an under tone, as he mounted a stump, from which he jumped on the horse behind Charley. When the party arrived before the dwelling of old Mr. Hornby, they found the latter standing at his gate, who stopped the Doctor to consult him relative to his ailments. "I feel rather out of sorts," says Hornby, "and I wish you to tell me what's the matter with me." "I shall do no such thing," replied the Doctor; it is not my business to tell people what is the matter with them. I leave that for them to tell me, and then it becomes my duty to cure them. Come, \   OF EBO JUBE.        19 go on and tell all about it, how you feel, and what is the matter with you." "Well, Doctor; t'other morning I got up, and* didn't feel just right, but didn't mind it till breakfast came, when I found I couldn't eat with any appe- tite." "Better fast then; go on." "Well, you see, I felt a sorter pain beginning in this shoulder, then it reached down this side, and then across the stomach to t'other, then down that side to my legs, then crossed over to the other side, then went up to the head and neck, then into t'other shoulder, then down the side to the stomach-" "That'll do," says the Doctor; "exposure to at- mospheric vicissitude induces catarrhal symptoms." Having made this learned observation, not a word of which those present understood, the Doctor seized the patient's arm, and began to count the num- ber of the pulsations. "Let's see your tongue," said the Doctor. Whereupon the patient protruded this member to be examined by the Doctor, who then proceeded to punch his fingers in the patient's stomach, exclaiming, at the same time, " any soreness here, sir?" "No, sir." "Very well, very well," hastily replied the Doctor; "I will send you some very simple medicine that will bring you all right again." Ebo had been eyeing the proceedings of the Doctor with intense interest, and wondering, with all his might, why the Doctor held the old man's arm   20     LIFE AND ADVENTURE$ and looked at his tongue, and gouged his fists in his stomach in the manner he did. Just as the Doctor thad concluded his operations, a voice was heard to exclaim, in a low tone: "Lor Gor O'mity /" "What's that you said, you black varmint?" said the Doctor. "Noting, massa Doctor; me was jist tinking." "Then keep your thoughts to yourself," said the Doctor. Turning to Hornby, he continued. "I will send a small paper of jalap, to which you must pour half a pint of hot water, forming an infusion, which you must take as a purge, and work off with gruel." So saying, the Doctor, after kindly inquiring about the health of Mrs. Hornby and the children, and of Mr. H;, how his crop came on, and how his cattle looked, concluding with some remark about the weather, remounted, and proceeded with the lads to his own dwelling. When there, he found some patients with chronic complaints, and equally chronic stories as to their origin and symptoms, awaiting his return. Among others, there was an old fat woman, who was waiting to receive her accustomed shock for some sort of palsy. The Doctor proceeded to rub up his electrifying machine in the presence of the fat woman, while Ebo and Charley stood looking on with the deepest concern, never before having witnessed any- thing of the kind. They watched attentively every movement of the Doctor, as he turned the machine, and put his knuckles to the conductor, to see if everything was in order. As the sparks were given   OF EBO JUBE.        21 ff with a crackling sound, Ebo's astonishment was much increased. He and Charley both retreated a step or two, not being sure of safety where they stood. The Doctor, having arranged everything to his satisfaction, the old lady was placed on the isolated stool, ready to receive the fluid as usual. "' How have you come on since you were last here?" inquired the Doctor. "Well, really, Doctor, to tell you the truth, I think I am some better; but I think if the electrus was some stronger it would do more good. It is so very weak, I scarcely feels it at all." "We'll endeavor to alter that this time," said the Doctor. Whether from the effect of this importunity, or from the failure of former experiments, or from a weariness of the old lady's repeated annoyances, the Doctor determined, on this occasion, to give her a satisfactory dose. Having placed a chain in her hand, attached to the prime conductor at one end, he proceeded to charge a Leyden jar very highly, when, telling her to touch it, off went the electricity, and over went the old woman, with a scream, and out ran Charley and Ebo with all the speed of frightened deer. "Oh, la! Doctor," exclaimed the old woman, as soon as she could recover her breath, "you have killed me. I never felt such a shock before." "Whew, whew!" said the Doctor, "this is nothing. Every shock must get stronger and stronger. It is a contest between lightning and the disease, madam.   22     LIFE AND ADVENTURES Lightning is the strongest thing in the world; and if you only give it in sufficiently large doses,.it will conquer anything in the round world. If your body will hold out, do not fear but lightning will overcome disease." "It will never hold out," returned the old lady. "I had rather die with this palsy in my arm, than be killed with electrus in this way." "That is for you to determine, marm, not me." Well, Doctor, before you try any more, I will see how this works." "I say, halloo! where's those lads, black and white? I say, you idle rascals, come back here and get your seed and physic, and be off." A voice outside was heard to say: "Lor Gor O'mity!" C "Massa Charley, does de Doctor kill folks to cure 'em, and den bring dem to life agin? If you b'lieve me, I peeped in, and de old 'oman done got up agin as well as ever, and was talking to Massa Doctor." "I don't know what he does, Ebo; he seems to me to have dealings with the devil." At this moment the Doctor's bald head protruded through the door, saying: "Here, youngsters, you urchin vagrants! come in, you needn't be afraid of being hurt, however much you may deserve it." At this announcement, Charley Brief ventured in, but Ebo halted at the door. The Doctor took a folded paper of cypress seed, and placed it in one of   OF EBO' JUBE.       23 the waistcoat pockets of Charley, and put a folded paper of jalap in the other. "Harkee, lad," said the Doctor, " mind and give the jalap to old Hornsby as you go past; and when you get home give the cypress seed to your mother. Now, boys, good bye," taking Charley by the hand, whom he requested to reach out his other hand to Ebo. This being done, the Doctor slyly touched the knob of a Leyden jar he had previously charged, when both boys gave an involuntary jerk and a leap, and scampered off. "Now, clear out home, Charley, you and your ugly negro, and do as I have told you." This last admonition was wholly unnecessary, as the boys, using all the wits they had left, never stop- ped to draw breath till, one mounted behind the other, they were on the road home. The first exclamation of Ebo, in all cases of sudden astonish- ment or surprise, or when recovering from their effects, was as usual:- "Lor Gor O'mity!  Massa Charley," continued he, "did de Doctor blow fire all through us' ithout killing us?" "Yes," replied Charley; "but we stood it better than the old woman." "He, he, he! dat we did. P'raps, Massa Charley, she was too fat to run, else she would have done like us. He, he, he 1" So they kept talking and wondering with each other what kind of remedy this could be, and how the Doctor made it, till they got to Old Hornsby's,   24     LIFE AND ADVENTURES when Charley very deliberately proceeded to pu out the paper of cypress seed, and gave it to HornsbJ and carried the paper of jalap to his mother in lie of the seed. Old Hornsby no sooner got possession of the seed than he set about using them in the manner the Doa tor had directed him to take the jalap; and, when h had poured the requisite quantity of hot water t them, he swallowed the whole. Charley with Ebo, on reaching home, proceede to give his mother what he supposed to be th cypress seed, who, on opening the paper, wa astounded to find it a mass of jalap instead of th desired seed. On perceiving his mother's surprise the lad at once explained the nature of his unluck mistake; when Ebo, who had unperceived followe Charley into the house and heard what had hal pened, exclaimed- "Lor Gor O'mity!" "Go out, you little ugly fellow," screamed Mrs. B and, turning to Charley, she said:-"This comes o always having that black boy at your heels, follow ing you about like your shadow. Mount the hors immediately, whip back to Hornsby's, and gc the seed, for I should not be surprised if the poe ignorant man has swallowed the whole of them fc jalap." The words were scarcely out of his mother's mout before Charley was mounted and under weigh. A a short distance on the road he overtook Ebo, wh had already started back on foot to recover the seec   OF EBO JUB1:.      25 He was again mounted behind Charley, when both proceeded on'with all possible despatch. When Charley stood before the old man and explained his mistake- "Well," said he, "I thought they tasted rather ,roughish." At this expression, Ebo shook his head and ejacu- lated in a low tone, "Lor Gor O'mity!" "Are the seeds poisonous?" faintly asked Mr. Hornsby. This was a question neither Charley nor his man 1Ebo could answer. "Oh, I hope not," said Mrs. Hornsby, wringing and rubbing her hands, and looking daggers at the hapless lads.   26     LIFE AND ADVENTURES ' 4 Oh, father, do you feel bad from the seed yol have swallowed?" said a daughter. "None the worse," replied the old man. Whether the seeds were poisonous or not, the bes course it was thought prudent to take, was, to let hir swallow the actual infusion of jalap on top of them. The lads returned home rather gloomily, convey ing the news to Mrs. B. that her worst fears wer realized. As whipping the lads would not recove the seed, and as time had been given to grow coo and even to laugh with the other members of th family at the oddity of the mistake, Charley and Eb escaped the birch. ,w,   OE EBO JUBE.       27 CHAPTER II. TIE dispositions of youth are much influenced by circumstances which surround them, or adventures which befall them while growing up. Various pro- minent traits of mind are often developed by the accidental contingencies which beset the path of childhood, or control the will of maturer years. An innate feeling of benevolence, of heroism, or genius for painting, sculpture, philosophy, or mechanism, may be early observed in the infantile mind if closely watched by one competent to judge. To the experi- enced eye of age, in the rustic boy's attempt to mould rude figures arid implements from pipe clay, may be seen the mind of the future sculptor. In his efforts to draw pictures on walls and pieces of paper, may be seen the workings of the young mind, which is under favorable circumstances to expand into the future painter. In his constant endeavors to build miniature mills, houses, &c., may be seen the early workings of a talent for architecture, engineering, and mechanical invention. .To the habits and man- ners of those among whom he lives, be they good or evil, if mere chance does not determine otherwise, will his own conduct and mode of life be modelled. It sometimes so happens, however, that the exhi-   28     LIFE AND ADVENTURES bition of vice in some strong and revolting form t( the young and uncontaminated mind of childhood has the happiest influence, by striking it with sucl horror as to cause the evil to be for ever after studi ously shunned. The misfortune with parents generally is, that they are incapable of perceiving ard appreciating the early tokens of mind in youth which nature throw, out as proofs of the child's adaptedness for some pur suit in preference to all others, the consequences oJ which we witness every day in the common affairs oJ life. Nature wills, but parents choose, and very often in direct opposition to that will. Hence hov frequently do we see men in the pulpit who ought t, be somewhere else. So in the pursuits of law an physic, as well as in the walks of mechanical, philo sophical, agricultural, and commercial professions These truths have always been admitted, but neve acknowledged in the conduct of parents. Thei false love of their offspring, their vanity, and pride of wealth, or birth, interposes between what the/ desire their children to be and what nature will they should be. Children are thus often doomed t, embark in pursuits, when sufficiently advanced, fo which they are not only unfitted, but for which the: entertain feelings of dislike or disgust. Failure in calling thus forced upon them, too often begets dout and despondency with the son, causing him to los confidence in himself, and to disappoint the il founded expectations of his parents and friend: Being thwarted in gaining success in the professio   OF EBO JUBE.        29 assigned him, he sometimes imagines he is not only disqualified for the pursuit allotted him, but that he is wholly incapable of doing anything else; and con- sequently sinks back into permanent mediocrity, or falls into unchanging obscurity. Genius, fame, suc- cess, seldom grow up from family wealth or family pri e beneath the withering restraints they too often impose. We continually witness the rewards of oratory, arts, and sciences, bestowed upon those weho in early life were unrestricted as to the choice of their employments, experiencing no other obstacles in their progress than those cast in their way by poverty or disease, which the ardor of their genius often enabled them to surmount. The ragged and friendless urchin of to-day may in the prime of man- hood reach an eminence and enjoy a fame which the child of wealth and family can never aspire to. Give to nature and her laws all which she demands, and our word for it, with a fair field of development, she will never fail to crown her subjects with honor and fame. Charley Brief grew up with as little restraint upon mind or body as any lad we have ever known, not excepting Ebo Jube himself. The latter was so ugly, and withal without marks of great physical strength, that the whole family seemed to overlook his pre- sence, and to consider his labor or services as of no consequence. Indeed, whenever he was spoken of or alluded to, it was generally in connexion with his "Massa Charley," between whom there was no sepa- ration, scarcely, day or night. Whenever the latter   30     LIFE AND ADVENTURES was in bed the former was always found in the same room, on the floor or somewhere else. These lads differed largely in many respects, yet in other points it must be confessed their dispositions and inclinations were not wholly dissimilar. Secluded from the great world, and confined to the rural routine of a country farm, few changes transpired calculated to excite their wonder, or to call forth their observation, or to increase Their stock of worldly knowledge. They both evidently hated steady work, and still more disliked the school-room. The open fields, bird- catching, fishing, mill and house building, clay modelling, with scenic painting on boards and walls, with the crimson and purple juices of wild berries, engaged much of their attention in extreme youth, These gradually gave place to hunting, swim ming, horse-riding, with a passion for rambling travelling, courting, dancing, and frolicking, as Charley began to exhibit a straggling beard on an otherwise smooth chin, and Ebo's woolly hair on his head had grown longer, darker, and thicker. Before reaching this last stage between youth and manhood, they met with three singular adventures, which left an impression on their minds both salutary and indelible A short distance from the Briefs, there lived E small, petulant man, whose business was that of i distiller. He made whiskey which he exchanged with the neighboring farmers for grain and malt He contrived to thrive in his business, and mighl have done much better bad he not accustomed him self to the free use of the same liquid.   OF EBO JUBE.       81 Such was the limited sphere of knowledge afforded to Charley and Ebo on the farm they were bred on, 'that they were, at the time of which we write, totally ignorant not only of the method of manufacturing alcohol but even of its intoxicating qualities. It so happened one day that these lads in their ramble came to the still-house of Mr. Chink, the little man with ugly features and cross temper of whom we have spoken. They found his still at work, the low- wines running from the end of a worm into a barrel. But they found Chink perfectly still, for he was stretched out; either dead asleep or dead drunk, one or both. The lade looked on the scene with some surprise; but seeing an old pewter spoon lying on the barrel, they commenced catching the low-wines atnd drinking them. When Charley had drunk a few spoonfuls he would pass it to Ebo, who smacked his lips with evident delight. The liquor being sweet, they continued this libation till their heads began to grow dizzy and things no longer appeared in their right position. Ebo began to act like a wild monkey, leaping about and yelling in a most fantas- tic manner, to the infinite amusement of Charley, who laughed himself into tears, and almost into con- vulsions. Schemes of mischief seized them in this excitement. They placed a board in an inclined position, with one end beneath the stream of low- wines, and rested the other end about the centre of ' Chink's body, as he lay sleeping on his back. The liquid, of course, traced down the board on to his   32     LIFE AND ADVENTURES head rested in a hole of earth, lower than his 1 into which the liquor ran after saturating his cl The next trick attempted by Ebo-for Charley gone off into a stupor of intoxication, and ( render no assistance, was the effort to reach Ch nose with straws and leaves, in order to tickle But his strength also was too far gone. In or these experiments he fell short of his object, an( at full length on his victim in a profound slui The low-wines, however, began to accumulate are Chink's head, and finally reached his breat organs, which set him to sneezing, coughing, struggling. In rising up he kicked away the b and changed the direction of the liquor into the b again. He was much astonished on finding the st   OF EBO JUBE.       38 Ebo sound asleep on him and Charley in a stupor by his side. As he rose, Ebo rolled off as one dead. Chink shook and pulled the lads about, but there appeared no animation in either. Had not Chink concluded that both were dead, he would have given each a sound flogging; but he knew Mr. Brief, and had great respect for the family.- So, taking a lad up under each arm, he lost no time in laying them down at the house of Mr. B. On perceiving the approach of Chink with the helpless lads, Mrs. B. and her daughter Emma, both set up a scream, supposing they were both dead. Mr. B. was sent-for, and the whole family gathered about them. "Oh, Mr. Chink," exclaimed Mrs. B., "how in the world did the poor boys lose their lives? Do tell me all about it. Oh, my poor Charley-what shall I do?" "Oh, Mr. Chink," cried the daughter, "where and how did you find them? What under heaven has killed them?" "I found them just as you see them," dryly re- plied Chink; and looking down at his wet clothes, "if I had not found them both dead I should have given them both a sound flogging, for see how that black rascal has made free with-" "Oh, Mr. Chink, do not talk so. Oh, poor Char- ley!" "O h, mother, if I am alive they are warm yet, and I believe they breathe, too," said Emma, as she held a hand on each of their faces and breasts.   84     LIFE AND ADVENTURES "Call Joseph, the coachman," said Mrs. B., "and tell him to fly for Doctor Shellac as fast as horse can carry him." This command was no sooner issued than Joseph was on his wa3r for the doctor we have named, and the very same who had prescribed for Mr. Hornsby. He had only proceeded a mile or two when, as good luck would have it, he met the doctor on his way to visit another patient. But Joseph's pressing solicitation and alarming account of the condition of the lads induced him to proceed at once to Mr. Brief's. The doctor entered the room where the boys lay, with great solemnity. He said not a word or noticed Mrs. B. or Emma, who sat by wringing their hands in great agony. The doctor proceeded to examine their skulls; felt their pulses, which beat quick but feeble. Their breathing was laborious and difficult. The doctor muttered some- thing about "Concussion of the brain,"--"Robbing birds' nests, and had a fall,"-"Probably a fight with other boys, and stones thrown." Thus talking to himself for a few minutes, he would have asked more about them, but Chink, who knew as much about them as anybody else, had disap- peared. "I must," said the Doctor, "act on the safe side. Mrs. Brief," continued he, "these boys have a con- tusion of the brain; it is necessary to shave their heads and put a blister plaster on each. They must then have their feet put in warm water, and sinapisms applied to them."   OF EBO JUBE.        35 "I wish you to do what you think best," said Mrs. B., faintly. Hereupon the head of each was closely shaven bald, and blister plasters applied to the noddle of each. The feet were treated as directed. -The Doc- tor then enjoined quiet and careful attention, and left under a promise to make an early call. Soon after his departure Mr. B. arrived, much alarmed at the accounts he had received. On hearing the story of Chink repeated, the whole mystery was solved. "My dear," said he to Mrs. B., "all that is the matter with these -lads arises from their being dead drunk. Bring me some new milk," continued he, at the same time tearing off the plasters and throwing them away. "Dr. Shellac," said he, "is an ass." The lads were freely drenched with the new milk, which set them to vomiting, when they began to exhibit decided tokens of returning animation. Cold water liberally poured on their bald heads, soon com- pleted the resuscitation, so happily begun, to the great relief of Mrs. B. and Emma. As consciousness returned, Charley and Ebo gazed about them in the most stupid wonder, scarcely able to realize where they were or what it was that ailed them. The first thing Ebo fixed his eyes upon was the bald head of his "Massa Charley." He could scarcely believe his senses. He would partly shut his eyes and then open them again as wide as possible, at the ill fated crown of Charley. He stared till all the white of   36     LIFE AND ADVENTURES his large eyes became prominently visible, unwilling to believe what he saw, and still less able to account for such an extraordinary change. Whether it was from sympathy, or from a supposition that whatever change might overtake Charley, their fate being so interwoven one with the other, that a similar cata- stropqhe would necessarily befall himself, be this as it may, hk involuntarily placed his. hand upon his own bald head, when he, in a most despondent tone, exclaimed, '"Lor' Gor O'mity!" and fell back with his hands over his face, in utter despair, groaning heavily as he thought of their misfortune. The next day the lads were seen about, each with a cap or cowl covering his head, and were the laughing-stock of the whole family for several days   OF EBO JUBE.       87 after. They were fortunate enough to spy out the approach of Dr. Shellac, as he entered the outer gate of the farm the succeeding day-on perceiving whom they fled beyond his reach with the utmost precipita- tion, not daring to approach the house during his visit. On inquiring for his patients, the Doctor was much surprised at learning the real cause of their disaster, and the effectual method of their recovery; and exclaimed- "The vagrant rascals, they deserved it all, every bit of it. Their hides should be blistered as well as their heads. Mrs. B., if you don't chain up the wild lad and- his satellite, the black varmint, they'll both be hung on the same gallows." Mrs. B. said whipping did not seem to do them much good. She hoped, however, to be able to place Charley at school soon, and she would send Ebo along with him, if it was only to keep them both out of mischief. '"Madam," exclaimed the Doctor, "I am astonished at the forwardness of youth and the depravity of the age. I know of nothing worse than spoilt children and quack Doctors. One grieves parents to death, andjthe other destroys all with his nostrums. There is that old pretender, Dr. Van Shute, who pretends he can cure witchcraft, break the incantations of the devil, and do a thousand other improbable things. He gulls all the inhabitants in the Dutch settlement over the river, and makes them believe in all his pro- fessed healing absurdities." "Quackery is a dreadful thing," said Mrs. B., "and   98     LIFE AND ADVENTURES in my mind, for one ignorantly to trifle with human life is a great sin." 'Yes,' continued the Doctor, in reply; "I look upon Dr. Van Shute as the chief of quacks, and there- fore the -chief of sinners." So saying, heeremarked that he felt Very dry, and would feel obliged for, a glass of water. - "Willyou take some spirits with it, Doctor?" politely asked Mrs. B. "Why, ma'rm, I look upon the use of alcohol as a great evil, as evinced in the late adventure of the two lads; but you know we Doctors, who are much exposed, and who know how to use it as a medicine, can rationally indulge in its potations while we are perfectly justifiable in discountenancing its use in others." "Very true," replied Mrs. B., placing a decanter on the side-board, saying, "Come, Doctor, help your- self."   After Dr. Shellac had taken a reasonable draught he re-seated himself, and clearing his throat with a slight cough, as though he was about to bring out something of much consequenee, "Mrs. B." he commenced, "how wasyour--(cough) -sister Margaret when you heard from her last?" "Very well, I thank you." "Indeed-(cough)-I am happy to hear it. I have not had the pleasure of seeing her for a long while." "She is coming up next week from town to spend some time with me."   "I am very happy to hear it," said the Doctor. "I shall certainly do myself the pleasure to call on her, even should an epidemic universally prevail." "She no doubt will be pleased to see you, Doctor Shellac," replied Mrs. B. "Do you know, Mrs. B., ever since I lost my poor wife," here the Doctor spoke with evident emotion, "I have felt extremely lonely in the world. It is almost- impossible to be a practitioner of medicine and not have a wife. A prudent and skilful wife is herselfj equal to the half of the best Doctors in Vir- ginia. She has such an opportunity, you know, of aiding one among her friends, and to speak out in favor of one's abilities in a manner that would forbid one to speak of themselves. Besides, she could expose the quackery of twenty such humbugs as Dr. Van Shute. Then when one gets home in cold or wet weather, in the night it may be, it is so pleasant to find a cheerful fire and hot coffee awaiting your arrival." "It is all very true," replied Mrs. B., "and I won- der, Doctor, how you have managed to live so long without looking otit for another wife." "It is much easier, madam, to look out than to be suited," said the Doctor, as he rose and approached the decanter a second time, from which he took another drink. "'But I can tell you one thing, Mrs. B.," he continued; "I do know of one within the bounds of my extensive practice, that, could I per- suade her to have me, would suit me to a tee." "Who is that, Doctor?"    40     LIFE AND ADVENTURES "Your sister, madam- Mrs. Rollins." "Oh, Doctor, how you surprise me!" "I tell you it's a fact." A giggle was heard in an adjoining room. It sounded as though it might proceed from Miss Brief or it might be mistaken for the twitter of the lads. "' I wonder," said- the Doctor, with some indigna- tion, "if it is those mischievous vagrants making that ill-timed noise. If I get hold of them, I'll serve them worse than shaving their heads." "I do not think, Doctor, they'll come in your way again, if they can help it; they have never recovered from the shock you gave them." "Let the rogues look out that they are not worse shocked next time. Its God's mercy that Cypress seeds are not poisonous, or else they had sent one of my patients to his grave." "That was truly an awkward mistake," replied Mrs. B.- "Yes, indeed; and I should not be surprised if these vagrants turn doctors themselves, when they get a little older, and league with Dr. Van Shute in killing mankind." At this juncture a messenger arriving from the patient the Doctor was on his way to see the day before, when called off by the old servant Joseph, Dr. Shellac took his leave, wishing Mrs. Brief much happiness, and desiring to be remembered to Mrs. Rollins. As soon as the Doctor had left, Emma came laugh- ing into the room:   OF EBO JUBE.       41 "Oh, mother, I wonder what Aunt Margaret will think of her new beau I How mad she will be when she hears of the Doctor's declared passion for her." Never mind your Aunt Margaret; there is no use in telling her of it unless the Doctor himself reveals the story. The best way is never to meddle in other people's love affairs. For my part, I will not turn marriage-broker for any one." "But, mother, don't you think it was very impu- dent for the Doctor to speak to you so freely about Aunt Rollins?" "Certainly it was; but recollect he had been to the decanter." "I Yes, and I would agree to see the part of his head not yet bald clean shaven, before he should be allowed to even annoy Aunt with any vain pro- posals.' At this juncture, a loud rap was heard at the door, and admittance asked in a gruff, blunt voice. "Oh " exclaimed Miss B., " that is Uncle Ned," as she sprang to the door to let him in. "Halloo, hussy," continued the blunt voice, "how do you all do? Where's the lads who were killed by drinking Chink's low wines?  Ha  tell us, hussy?" kissing her, by way of preparing her for an answer. "Oh, Uncle, do behave; they saw Dr. Shellac com- ing, and through fear of him, ran off into the fields." "No wonder the scamps cut dirt, ah, ha, hal I shouldn't wonder if Dr. Shellac scalps them in his next operation. Ah, ha, hal how odd the rogues   42     LIFE 'A)D ADVENTURES must have looked with their bald heads. Send out for the rascals; I want to see them." "Emma, call Joseph to go out and look up the boys, and tell them Uncle Ned wants to see them." Joseph started, but had not gone far before he met Charley an4d Ebo returning of their own accord, though looking very sheepish and chap-fallen. They had watched the departure of Dr.. Shellac, and had witnessed the approach of"' Uncle Ned," whom they were always glad to see, as he frequently made them small presents; but in their plight, they approached his presence with great reluctance. As soon as the old man saw them, he bawled out to them to come in, and not " be shying round like sheep stealers."  So, you rogues, you've had a fine spree at Chink's still-house? Both drunk, hal Pull off your night. caps, and let us look at your reaped crown s" Whereupon, he seized the cap of Charley in one hand, and that of Ebo in the other, and burst into a fit of laughter, in which Mrs. B. and her daughter could not refrain from joining. The exhibition was a very mortifying one to the boys. The old man replaced their caps, at the same time telling them to keep a bright look out for the future, as they had- much to learn yet in passing through the world, and pouring out a dram for cach, insisted on their drinking with him. This was utterly impossible. As soon as Charley saw and smelt the liquor, he grew sick at his stomach and reeled towards the door. Ebo's eyes grew wild and agitated on seeing "Old   OF EBO JUBE.-       48 Massa," as he called old Mr. Edward Stok sthe oldest and only surviving brother of Charley's mother ap- proach him with a glass of liquor. "Old master, if you believe me, I can't drink any," at the same time retreating towards the door. "Halloo!" exclaimed the old man, "what's all this mean? Well, well, if you two will never drink any more, it's all the better. Come, come, you rogues, we'll not fall out." So saying, he pulled out a very neat silver-handled pen-knife and presented it to Charley; and taking a half dozen new-looking sixpences, presented them to Ebo. Charley very warmly thanked his uncle, while Ebo-as was his custom on such occasions-made a very low bow, by bending his head forward and scraping one foot backwards, saying at the same time, "Thank you, old massa." This ceremony over, the lads wore much brighter faces, and for a moment forgot their past misfortunes with Chink's liquor and Dr. Shellac's shocks of all kinds. This was at a time when " tee-totallers" and "tee- total societies" were never heard of. The very first "tee-totallers" we ever knew anything about were Charley Brief and his man Ebo. If two persons leagued together can be called a society, they made the first temperance society on record. For in after life, notwithstanding the many extraordinary adven- tures through which they passed in various parts of the world, and which, in the progress of this work,   "     LIFE AND ADVENTURES we shall have occasion to relate, and however many other sins of omission and commission may be charged against them, drunkenness will not form one of them, for they were never drunk again during the remainder of their lives.   OF EBO JUBE.       45 CHAPTER III. IT was not long after the period in which the scenes above described passed, when on a certain day Charley Brief and Ebo were seated beneath a walnut tree, near the river bank, busily engaged in cracking and easing walnuts. There came along an idle, vagrant young man by the name of Hopper, who had been a few trips to a neighboring market town, and had picked up just sufficient vice, with a know- ledge of cards, to enable him to cheat those more rustic than himself. t He halted under the tree with the lads, began a free and jovial chat with them, and told them some funny stories while cracking walnuts for himself. When he had succeeded in ingratiating himself into the good graces of the lads, he drew from his pocket a pack of cards, the first Charley and Ebo had ever seen. The curious looking figures and highly colored spots excited the attention and scru- tiny of Ebo in a high degree.- When Hopper had shuffled them about in a very rapid manner, and called over the names of different cards, such as kings, queens, jacks; aces, spades, hearts, diamonds, &c., he offered to bet, either one or both, that they might pick out any one card in the pack, and look   "     LIFE AND ADVENTURES at its face without letting him see it, and then replace it, after which he would shuffle up the pack, and commence at the top to throw off the cards, and yet he could tell when he came to the card which they had selected. This appeared so improbable to Ebo, that he at once staked his six new sixpences against an. equal sum put down by Hopper, that he could not do it. Hopper held out the pack, from which Ebo carefully drew a card, and looking at its face, with its blank side towards his antagonist, satisfied himself what card it was, and then replaced it in the pack, which was then shuffled up. The gambler then commenced throwing off a card at a time, till, casting one off, he declared it to be the one looked at by Ebo. But on examination it proved not to be the one, and Ebo picked up with frantic glee the whole of the money. Hopper, who hfd seen Charley's sil- ver-handled pocket knife, then offered to bet two silver dollars against all' Ebo's money and Charley's pocket knife that he could do what he said he could. Ebo seemed eager to bet, but Charley hesitated. At last, however, he joined Ebo in the venture, laid down 'his knife, while Ebo put: down twelve six- pences against Hopper's two silver dollars. The pack was again held forth, when Charley and Ebo carefully and almost breathlessly wiithdrew aard, and slyly peeping at its face, replaced it, when Hopper proceeded to shuffle4them up, and to cast off one at a time, as he had done before, when he threw. off one and said that was the card. On turning it over, to the utter consternation of the lads, it proved to be   tru-e-! Whereon H Eopper very coolly picked up the-khife, wth aall the money, nd walked 0o witl his hat eoeked upon one sideb hiis ;hedwilhis hands, or the fits, wre stucinn thEf poketof his round- about ti His long soaplooekt idown the sides of his e, while he whistle an idle tune as he sauntered ofl Heaving Charley id EEbo ated ia te gron gazing after him in mute astoniSrmnt. Ebo's eyes followei himi for some time, as et i ienel^e, ith his lnonth wide open, i zost forettig to breathes When he bcme sufficiely , olleete to spea his first ejaculation.         '  "Ior Gor OG'mity li Maa Oharley," coutiumel ie, "hat whd master, your     ywhenhe Indsafout dist?,   48     LIFE AND ADVENTURES "He'll never make us another present, and I had rather we should both have our heads shaved over again than to meet him." Ebo grew dumb and sullen, and shook his head, indicating a deeply-troubled spirit within. As mor- tifying as the former adventure had been, this was still more humiliating to their feelings. They had gambled off the presents made them by a kind friend. They had, in thus foolishy parting with their little property, not only been made bankrupt, but they had been guilty of an act of ingratitude towards their benefactor in thus lightly parting with his gifts. While they condemned the roguery of Hopper in the bitterest terms, they felt overpowered with the sense of remorse at having to confront their kind patron. It is true, some boys, placed in their circumstances, would have contrived some ingenious falsehood for old Mr. Edward Brief, in order to have escaped the exposure of their own folly, and at the same time retain the good opinion of such an excellent man. But it was not in the nature of Charley Stokes to tell a deliberate untruth. He scorned, from his very soul, all dissimulation, and detested the character of a liar. Boy as he was, and full of other faults as he might be, h6 had a deal of frankness and moral courage. He resolved at once, on the first interview he had with his "Uncle Ned" to reveal the whole story to him, and during the remainder of his life to avoid all the gamblers and Hoppers in the world. When the lads approached the house, they were despatched by Mr. Brief, senior, the father of   OF EBO JUBE.       49 Charley, to Mr. Edward Stokes's who resided on a neighboring farm, to borrow an adze, or some other tool of carpentry or husbandry. The lads obeyed in submissive silence. There was something in their manner that incited the suspicion of Mr. B. that all was not right. And he expressed his belief or fears to Mrs. B. that they had been involved in some new adventure or mischief. They were, however, soon out of sight, as they sped on their errand, and soon stood before Edward Brief, who ex- claimed: "Halloo what's brought you two gents here? Do you want some more of Chink's low-wines; ha? Halloo I what's the matter? you look as woe-be-gone as if you were both condemned to be hanged. I say, Charley, hold up your head. Where's the knife I gave you? Pull it out and let's look at it." At hearing this question, Ebo was seen to shake his head, and groan as if oppressed with an agony of deep regret; on perceiving which, the old man said to him: "You ugly-faced remnant of Africa's race, where are the sixpences I gave you? Pull 'em out and let me see them; you hear?" Ebo again shook his head, not daring to look up, as he sat squatted down on the door steps, with his head resting on his hands and knees. But finally muttered out: "Old master, ask massa Charley; he knows how we loss 'em, wid dat dar mean white man." Hereupon Charley told the whole story just as it 3   50     LIFE AND ADVENTURES occurred. When he had finished, both lads felt as though a load was lifted from their minds. "Hallool" exclaimed the old man; "first drunkards, then turned gamblers; what next? I say, look sharp, people like Hopper, are plenty in the world; and if you don't mind, they'll treat you worse than Chink's liquor. They will shave your very life out of you. Well, well, if you never get drunk any more, and never gamble any more, it will be all the better for you. One thing is a good sign, Charley, you have told me the whole truth about it, so let it pass. Here is a sixpence a piece to begin the world with. Take the adze and run home as soon as pos- sible." "Uncle Ned " was thanked by Charley, and bowed to, very low, by Ebo, who felt great humility and gratitude at the termination of a most unlucky adven- ture. It soon appeared, however, that the inexperience of these wayward youths was about to involve them in another difficulty; if not as discouraging as the one first related, it nevertheless proved very dis- agreeable in its consequences, at the time it trans- pired. It chanced one day that a pedlar arrived, who desired to be set across the river in a ferry boat, which plied at a public ferry kept by Mr. Brief. Old Sambo, the colored ferryman, was out of the way, and the footpad pedlar, who carried his merchandise in a huge sack on his back, offered to pay Charley and Ebo in manufactured tobacco if they would set him across the river in a boat. The lads insisted on   OF EBO JUBE.       51 payment in advance; but the pedlar persisted in stating that he had no money, but was willing to pay ten times the value of the ferriage in manufactured tobacco, if they would put him over. After some further parley, Charley and Ebo put him across, and received payment in two large twists. As soon as the lads returned with the boat, they seated them- selves under the shade of a tree on the grass, when they began to bite off bits of tobacco and to chew most vigorously, at the same time swallowing the amber with some fragments of leaves. It was not long before very serious results began to be realized. A most deadly sickness soon overpowered them, while they rolled about in utter helplessness. The whole earth, trees and all, seemed to be moving around them in a rapid whirl. Ebo imagined the surface of ground on which he lay to present an almost perpendicular inclined plane, and was con- vulsively clinging to, and holding on to the grass, to prevent his sliding off. This scene of extreme agony continued, till free vomiting supervened, which yielded some respite. One fit of retching and vomit- ing followed another, till their stomachs appeared to have yielded their entire contents-tobacco, leaves, juice, and all. They finally, after several hours of deep suffering, were enabled to rise and regain, in some degree, their upright position, though feeble and exhausted to the last degree. Ebo's eyes looked large and languid, accompanied with a woe-be-gone and melancholy expression of features. Their gar- ments presented also a scene of much disorder.   52     LIFE AND ADVENTURES For a considerable time not a word escaped the lips of either party. Ebo sat on the ground with his head resting on his hands, between his knees, occa- sionally shaking it in a most significant manner. At last he was heard to say, without, however, raising his head- L Massa Charley, does you tink dat pedlar gin us some poison he get from Dr. Shellac's?" "It's served us worse than the cypress seed did old Hornsby," replied Charley; "and I only wish that Dutch pedlar was compelled to eat all the remainder of the tobacco." "Emph! if he was to eat 'em all," exclaimed Ebo, "he'd nebber poison anybody agin!" It was just at the conclusion of this dialogue, that a small man was seen walking towards them, wearing a hat and other toggery to match, which indicated that he might be a miller, or of some kind of occu- pation that gave his outer surface a remarkable uni- formity of coloring. His face was swarthy, and even some darker than the dingy hue of summer gar- ments, that had, in their early stages of manufacture and fitting, made pretensions to whiter shades. The figure drew very near to the lads before any recognition took place. Indeed, neither party were in a good condition for active reconnoissance. The small man, who proved to be Mr. Chink, the distil- ler, was in his regular mood, and, if anything, less drunk than usual, when, reeling as he walked, he brought up dead in front of the lads, and, without uttering a word, stood gesticulating before them, and   OF EBO JUBE.       53 throwing about his arms as though he was in the midst of a violent speech, while not a syllable escaped his lips. Ebo, who had raised his head and eyes towards the figure of Chink, and attentively surveyed his motions without rising, was heard to exclaim, "Lor Gor O'mity!" This exclamation from Ebo seemed to call forth a speech from Chink, who cried out- "Oh, ye generation of vipers I you that were dead in sins and trespasses, and hath arisen to life! Ye black and white spits, who stole my low-wines, whence cometh ye and whither doth; thou go? Speak, ye sons of mud and dirt!"- So saying, down he tum- bled on the grass beside the lads. '"Here, boys," he continued, "let's have a drink together;" and, pull- ing a bottle from his coat pocket, he insisted that they should take a drink with him. The bare sight of the liquor, combined with the smell of Chink's clothes, saturated with the odors of the still-house, induced a fresh return of nausea and retching with the lads, who lost no time in moving off several yards from Chink. "Hallo!" said Chink; "what's this?" picking up a twist of tobacco, and holding it up. "As I live, a prime lot of the real 'Honey Dew'-Mr. Mott's prime. I'll bet you this bottle of whiskey against that rascal's woolly head, or any change you have got, that you stole this tobacco, like my low- wines." As soon as Ebo heard the word. bet, he placed his hand on his pennies, and exclaimed-   54     LIFE AND ADVENTURES "Massa Chink, if you believe dis nigger, he'll never bet agin." Charley here told Chink they came honestly by the tobacco, and if he chose, he might help himself to the whole of it. Hereupon Chink bit off a large piece, and commenced chewing it most vigorously, to the delight and astonishment of Ebo. The ambeer soon coursed down from the angles of his mouth over his chin, while the quid rolled from one side to the other, the operation being closely watched by Ebo, who exclaimed- "Lor, Massa Charley, you see dat? De white man be sick for true bime bye." "' Let him alone," returned Charley; "he's welcome to it all, if he wants it." Whether from the anodyne effects of the tobacco, or from the previous doses of whiskey, or from the joint operation of the two, Chink grew less and less conscious; his voice less audible or distinct, his eye- lids more heavy, his limbs more yielding, till he sunk on the grass in a profound slumber. Finding the distiller profoundly asleep, the lads placed the bottle of whiskey in his bosom, and stuffed a twist of tobacco in each pocket. They then removed his hat, and procuring some black mud from a neighboring brook, they proceeded to blacken his face and head in a very complete manner, and made the best of their way to the house. Their changed appearance and want of appetite did not fail, however, to be remarked by the family. Charley, on being closely ques- tioned as to the cause, gave a statement of the whole   OF EBO JUBE.       55 affair, leaving out, however, their adventure with Chink. It chanced that the occurrence in the lives of these lads, which we have narrated, transpired on a Satur- day. On that evening, old Sambo, the ferryman, had fixed upon to give a Banjo Ball at his house, a snug log building which stood equidistant between the dwelling house and the ferry landing, where lived Sambo, his wife, and two daughters, nearly grow, Hannah and Dina. This anticipated ball had been the talk among the negroes of Mr. Brief's neigh- borhood for weeks. The best banjo players among them were engaged; a lot of pumpkin pies had been baked; Mrs. Brief had contributed many articles to give the party eclat; Sambo's house had been put in complete order; his wife and daughters had washed and ironed their best dresses for the occasion. The memorable evening finally came. The sun had gone down behind the distant hills with a bright face, beneath a golden fringe of feathery clouds; the southern breeze, highly scented with the fragrant odors of millions of flowers, softly fanned the pen- dant foliage and waving grass of the landscape; the milkmaid had gathered her pail of new sweet milk, and was returning home from the cow-pen; the twit- tering swallows Were whirling round and round in dizzy flights about the old chimney top of the old mansion, preparatory to their nocturnal retirement within its funnel; the ploughmen were slowly leav- ing the fields with their teams, to be quietly disposed of till the Monday following; the laundress stood at   56      LIFE AND ADVENTURES the ironing-table, giving the final polish to the various white and well-washed articles of cotton and linen, composing the household furniture and per- sonal wardrobe of the family, large and small; Mr. and Mrs. Brief were seen strolling through a well- stored flower garden, and watching the changing hues of the sky in the west during the fading twilight. At Sambo's house a more active and inte- resting scene was passing. There, all was bustle and preparation. The plank floor had been well scoured, the chimney-back well whitewashed, the pine board mantel-shelf was made to bear two brown crockery pitchers, which contained a choice collection of flowers; while some green creepers festooned the inside entrance of the doorway. At the time of evening-of which we are speak- ing-things with Sambo's wife and daughters had reached an anxious crtis. The cakes had been all baked, the liquors all provided. The wife had put on her newest best and calico dress, and squeezed her feet into a strong pair of leather shoes. Hannah and Dina had put on their best apparel. Their dresses were thin, made in the fashion of the day. The skirts were unusually short, and the waist unusually high, the body very tight and low in the neck, and the sleeves very large. Dina had a fine full bust, large, round neck, with a most pleasing and charming set of features, finely set off with a double row of pearl-white teeth, guarded by a pair of exuber- ant and well formed lips. Her nose was well chiselled, and on a scale corresponding with the general   OF EBO JUBE.       57 arrangement of her other features. Her eyes were large, bright, white in their outer rings, and expres- sive. Her hair was closely and finely curled; it was of a fine jet black color, being in complete unison with her ebony complexion. She wore brass rings in her ears, and double strings of huge glass beads around her neck, which lay in a heavy mass on her large and heaving bosom. Such was Miss Dina Brief-for among negroes in Virginia, they all bear the surname of their master. Dina was decidedly a belle among the " young gem- men of color" round about Mr. Brief's. She had several suitors, among whom it appeared difficult to choose a partner to her liking. Joe Dowel's atten- tions had been very marked, and it was supposed by many observing persons that the attachment would speedily end in matrimony. It had been noticed at several previous balls that Dina and Joe were always partners in the most lively Virginia reels, such as "Scamper Down," "Run and Call," "Cut and Come," "HighLife and Quick Step," "Jimmy Welsh's Jumping Jig," &c. In moving, springing activity through these lively dances, they seemed perfectly to understand each other, and their agility, their springs, bounds, and whirls, won the applause and admiration of all spectators. Hannah was a younger and rather more delicately formed sister of Dina's. Her dress was much in the same style as that worn by Dina and her mother. Her bust, however, was less full, and her waist more indented between the shoulders and hips. Her frock 3*   58     LIFE AND ADVENTURES was extremely short-leaving a pair of ancles that were gracefully inclosed in a pair of cotton cambric pantalettes. A simple neck-tye of blue ribbon was all that guarded her neck; while her head was bound by a braid of black ribbon, If her look was less laugh- ing and buoyant than that of Dina's, it was probably because she was more modest and retiring. Old Sambo had drawn on a long pair of blue stockings, and fitted his feet in a pair of large shoes, with huge buckles confining their ear ties. An ancient pair of old buff deer-skin breeches, buckled at the knees, completed the lower half of his dress. An ancient claret-colored cloth coat, with strait breast and large buttons, was put on: beneath which was seen a drab cloth vest, cut according to the style of his coat. An old three-cornered hat was gracefully worn on such occasions. White powder, however, was, in his case, wholly unnecessary, as time had imparted a color to his locks quite as white and infinitely more durable. Old Sambo had fallen an heir to the baronial cos- tume of Sir Robert Brief, which he generally wore when he attended on the House of Burgesses, or when he visited the established church of his neigh- borhood in the official capacity of a vestryman, or in the friendly office of sponsor to some neighbor's child at the baptismal font. Old Sambo, in his youth, had acted as body servant to Sir Robert, and became the regular owner of all his old master's la- -aside clothing. The present suit he had preserved with great pride and care, in remembrance of his old deceased master, Sir Robert, whom he considered infin-   OF EBO JUBE.        59 itely superior to any of the existing race of mankind; which, he believed, had degenerated just in propor- tion to their departure from the ancient fashions of shoe-buckles, knee-breeches, strait-breasted coats, pow- dered hair, and peruques. He considered that he alone, when dressed in Sir Robert's wardrobe, represented the true standard of dignity and respectability among the colored race, that Sir Robert would do, if living, among his white descendants. Sambo was now in the "sere and yellow leaf." He held the office of ferryman under Mr. William Brief, which to him was a sinecure, as he in reality only acted as superintend- ent and treasurer, while young colored lads per- formed the manual labor appertaining to that depart- ment. Old Sambo cultivated a few acres of ground on his own account, in corn, and potatoes; kept a horse in good condition, also a cow and calf; had his poultry- house and yard well stocked with every variety of domestic fowls. The products of his place were regu- larly sold at the market town, where he purchased articles of consumption, such as sugar and coffee, and wearing apparel, in return. Sambo and his wife had both been taught, in the time of Sir Robert, to read their Bible, and they manifested great veneration and respect for the institutions of the "English Church," as then called. On the memorable evening of the ball, if you had chanced to pass the door of Sambo's house you would have seen an ugly, ill-shapen, large-headed black lad, with his shirt sleeves rolled up to his elbows, his shirt   60     LIFE AND ADVENTURES collar wide open, and as busy as he could live, while the sweat in large drops was streaming from his fore- head. This was no less a person than Ebo Jube, whose services had been engaged by the family of Sambo in preparing for this ball. Ebo was not only aiding in the preliminary arrangements, in the run- ning of errands, in picking up chips to keep the fires burning while the cookery was progressing, but was relied on as the "Varlet de la Saloon," during the evening.- He was engaged to hand round the piles of eatables, on a large waiter, to the ladies and gentle- men convened in honor of the occasion. -The longest suspense will terminate, and the great- est anxiety will ultimately find relief. And so it happened with Sambo's wife and daughters. The night had fairly set in. Large, hard, tallow candles were shedding their most brilliant light within the room, sending through every door and chink beams of light upon the surrounding garden and fields, which served as beacons to guide the invited guests to the locality of Sambo's dwelling, which might have easily escaped the notice of the wayfarer on a dark night. At this auspicious juncture, Mrs.. Sambo Brief sat at the head of the room, with her feet drawn up snugly on the rounds of the chair, and engaged in fanning herself with a huge fan, prepared from the tail of a wild turkey. On each side of her sat her daughters, in easy and languishing attitudes, each of whom were, in imitation of the mother, indus- triously plying fans made of feathers plucked from the tail or wings of white her ons or cranes. Sambo sat,   OF EBO JUBE.       61 and sometimes stood, near the fire-place, in quiet and calm dignity, with his three-cornered chapeau held firmly in his two hands, just in the same manner in which it was held by Sir Robert during important interviews and ceremonies. The first person who arrived was Juba Kate, the most celebrated Banjo player in Virginia, with his hat in one hand and his musical instrument in the other. On entering, the ladies instantly rose from their seats, to whom Juba made a very low bow of recognition, at the conclusion of which Mrs. Sambo Brief approached him, and taking him by the hand, presented him to her daughters, who, on being ad- dressed by the musician, made very low courtesies. This ceremony being completed, Sambo advanced to Juba chapeau in hand, and welcomed him to his house. Soon after, other musicians arrived, with fiddles and banjos. Juba, the Paganini of the evening, and indeed of the neighborhood, who attended all the balls, black and white, in that part of .the State, and without whose presence dancing was almost out of the question, was a tall, thin, raw-boned negro, with elon- gated features, and a forehead high and receding. He had high cheek-bones and large eyes, and wore a large pair of knotty, curled whiskers. HQ seemed to have a soul for music, for while playing on his favorite instrument he never failed to keep the most audible time by stamping or patting the sole of one foot on the floor, to the sound of which the dancers seemed to hop and skip in as much unison as they did to the tones of his spirited music. Not only was the foot   62V     LIFE AND ADVENTURES of Juba thus employed while playing his favorite airs, such as "Sally in the Wild Woods," &c., but his head also inclined back and forwards, and occasion- ally rolled from one side to the other. Juba was not only a performer of music, but was also a successful composer. He was the author of several original and most lively jigs, besides one or two interesting reels. One of his jigs bears his name, and to this day is known in Virginia as "Juba's Jig."  When he brought out this piece of music it took among all his colored brethren like an electric shock. To give it the greatest artistical effect, he introduced with it the most novel and striking accompaniments. While he produced the jig on the banjo, he taught several per- sons of his musical corps to stand on either side of him, with their bodies bent forward, and at the word would beat time by slapping their hands on their knees, and anon slapping both hands together in front of them, and again on the knees, while one foot, at the same moment, beat time on the floor, raising it on the heel and slapping it down again. They accompanied these physical euphonies by singing out in rapid vocifer- ation, the words of the jig Juba had perfected with such consummate skill and taste. This was a power- ful effort of musical talent, and stamped Juba as an artist of the first talents. During its performance the dancers were absolutely drunk with delight, and never ceased capering till fairly exhausted by physical exertion. Their joy during its performance was often expressed in boisterous ejaculations of merriment: such as, "Take your time, my pretty lass," "Whoop," \   OF EBO JUBE.       68 "Halloo," "Hold your breath, you sassy gal," "Clear the way for Old Virginia," "Mind your eye, you ugly nigger," "Run ahead, you sleepy dog." Juba varied this wonderful accompaniment by teaching a lot of black lads, twelve to fourteen years of age, to stand on their heads and beat time with their heels in the air; which he on several occasions introduced in the presence of white assemblages, and which never failed to excite the most convulsive fits of laughter and merriment in the beholders. This vari- ation, however, was not as well suited as the others to the dance, simply because the dancers could hold out much longer on their heels, than the boys could on their heads. The envied Joe Dowell had arrived, and was, as usual, "very 'ticlar" in his delicate attentions to Miss Dina. As the evening progressed, Sambo's hall became crowded with the youth and beauty of that part of old Virginia-all in their happiest moods, and most tastefully attired. As an invariable custom on these occasions, the ball was opened by Sambo  Brief's taking the hand of his lady, and leading her out to take the head of the first reel, just as old Sir Robert and Lady Brief had been seen to do in the olden times, when acting as partners in the first quadrille of the evening, in order to impart greater confidence to the movements of young misses, who were about to make their first debut in society. The ball once opened, all moved on in delightful har- mony and pleasure. The overpowering jig of Jube had been danced with rapturous delight several   "     LIFE AND ADVENTURES times. Joe Dowell and Dina were almost exhausted. The latter, to put the true love of the former to the test, and if possible to bring him to an announcement, took some pains during the evening to be much pleased with the company and attentions of another young fellow, by the name of Ned Maddox, which had the desired effect to arouse, the jealousy of Joe, in a most perceptible manner; who, to be revenged to some extent, became delighted with the company of Charity Smith. This cross fire was soon felt in its usual manifestations. While Joe and Dina looked daggers at each other, he cordially hated Ned Maddox, his rival, and wished him in Africa. Dina, with equal kindness and charity, wished Miss Smith at the bot- tom of the river. Crossed love is less likely to run smooth than true love. Joe and Ned began to exhibit signs of disagree- ment. While dancing, one had pressed rather severely on the toes of the other. At its termination, they both walked into the yard, and were soon involved in a serious altercation. "I can tell you what it is, Ned Maddox," said Joe, "no ill-bred, ugly nigger like you is fit to keep company with Dina Brief; besides, me and her hab been 'gaged dese six months, and you must look sharp how you insult by such courting talk and palaver." "Do you know who you talk to, you blink-eyed possum?" said Ned, much excited. "I tell you what, such uncircumscribed varmint as you, bark up de wrong tree, when you tanterizes and cavaults about   OF EBO JUBE.       6 in dis style. I'll court Dina, and hab her, too, and no odds to an old coon like you; and if you tread on my toes agin, I'll help your pate to a blow." "If it warn't out o' respect to Mr. Brief and family, I'd give you a whipping you'd never forget, and teach you the manners of a gemman of color," replied Joe, with much warmth. "You can't do it, here nor anywheres," said Ned. Things were threatening a collision, and might have terminated in one, had not Dina whispered her suspicion of what was going on in the ear of old Sambo, who immediately went out and interposed his mediation between the belligerents, and brought them back, where matters were apparently put to rest. Miss Charity Smith found the room rather warm, and went to the yard for fresh air, where she was joined by Miss Dina, who embraced the oppor- tunity to tell Miss Smith, that Joe's attentions to her were by no means agreeable to her (Dina's) feelings; and furthermore, the said Joe had given her to understand his affections were placed upon herself, and had been for a length of time. To which strange expostulation Miss Charity, with mingled surprise and warmth, retorted; "Well, Lor bless us! if I ever hearn the like of dat afore. Mr. Dowell told me dis blessed night he liked me better dan any one else in de world, and dat if I would hab him he'd marry me next Sunday; but you see I wouldn't say anyting." "Villain!" said Dina, aside.   "     LIFE AND ADVENTURES "Why didn't you tell him at once you would not hab de ugly beast?" "I would not tell him any such ting," replied Charity; " for if mamma is willing, I would be willing to marry Joe Dowell." "You shall never marry him, you ugly jinny, as you are. You hain't got de sense you were born with. Your mamma ought to take you home and beat you for a fool, and larn you to hab better sense and manners. I'll tell her how you carry on with dat wild-cat villain, who jist only wants to ruin you by conduction. You good-for-nothing huzzy, as you are; so you are, and I don't care who hears me say it." This speech excited anything but charity in the listener, who replied in a fit of anger, smothered in sobs, applying several epithets of scorn and con- tempt for the speaker, of a withering and severe character. While this quarrel was in this beautiful state out- side the door, all looked as cheerful, as pleasant, and as peaceable inside as one could imagine. No actual dance was going on. The musicians had just wet their pipes, and had commenced playing a plaintive air, to fill up the time. While the y6ung maids and beaux were laughing, taln wlking , wlkig,billing, and cooing about the floor and in corners, Ebo Jube was seen moving about among the guests, arrayed as we have described him, with a large tea tray filled with cups of custard, pieces of cake and pie, and pyramids of sundry articles of food.   OF EBO JUBE.        67 Joe Dowell and Ned Maddox were just about help- ing a knot of young ladies, who encircled the waiter and Ebo, to dishes of hot coffee and plates of cake, when, all of a sudden, in rushed Dina and Charity, screaming and shrieking "murder, death, and destruction," in the highest possible key at which they could pitch their voices. Their panic, on a sud- den, seized the whole house; some of the male guests supposed the house was surrounded by robbers, or a lawless set of marauders, and breaking away from the scene, never stopped till they reached their own homes. Either from the shock of the frightened people, or from the shock imparted to Ebo Jube's nerves, the waiter, with all its contents, went smash- ing to the floor, while coffee, pies, cake, and fruit, commingled together in the most perfect confusion, amidst the screams of the women and the panic groans of the men. Ebo had just wit enough left to ensconce himself in the chimney-corner, and gazed at the door with all the eye-sight nature had given him, expecting to see Satan himself enter it, on his all fours. Some of the ladies hid their faces, and wouldn't look. Old Sambo, although much agitated, didn't so far lose his self possession but he was enabled to save a solitary dim candle-light, which he held up in his hand, looking towards the door at a strange apparition which stood half-naked, and with a hideous black face, gazing with great intensity and vacuity back again at old Sambo. "Who are you?" asked Sambo, in a strong voice. "I am the devil," replied the figure.   68     LIFE AND ADVENTURES A groan of horror proceeded from the ladies. "Where did you come from?" said Sambo. "From h-11," returned the figure. "What have you come here for?" said Sambo. "Seeking something to devour," said the figure. "A plenty of which I see running to waste on the floor of these pharisees and sinners." t Oh, the horrible creature 1" exclaimed one lady, who had peeped at the figure from behind her hand- kerchief, which she held to her face. "' Lor Gor O'mity!" was heard to proceed from a piece of animated humanity, which answered to the name of Ebo, who now, for the first time, recognised the figure to be that of Mr. Chink, the distiller, with P !"'        II' his face all black, just as he and Charley had. left it on that very day on the grass under the tree. It seems Chink had stripped off his shirt from   OF EBO JUBE.       69 some cause or other, in the evening, and waking up, saw the light at Sambo's house, when, making as direct for it as possible, and presenting himself in the unseemly and abrupt manner we have described, caused the sudden and unexpected breaking up of Sambo's ball and the dispersion of his guests. his face all blac, just 8 he and Catley had left i    
         
       
   
